-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Nox
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/rpg/nox/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Feb 22, 2000
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.1
Critic Score: 8.1, 34 Review (s)
User Score: 8.6, 1,151 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Westwood Studios
Genre: Role-Playing
Date:     Jan 31, 2000
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
While few elements in Nox are entirely novel, the game provides both challenging and entertaining 
 single-player campaigns and fast-paced multiplayer battlegrounds. 

 After the remarkable commercial success of Blizzard's Diablo, it's surprising that it has taken 
 three years for the predictable wave of similar games to arrive. Perhaps even more surprising is 
 that, unlike the slew of real-time strategy clones that followed Warcraft II and Command &amp; 
 Conquer, most of the Diablo clones have actually proven to be quality games, and Westwood's Nox 
 certainly continues that trend. While few elements in Nox are entirely novel, Westwood has created 
 a polished game that provides both challenging and entertaining single-player campaigns and fast-paced 
 multiplayer battlegrounds.  

 Nox's isometric graphical perspective and action/role-playing hybrid gameplay are unquestionably 
 reminiscent of Diablo, but Nox provides a more action-oriented experience. Character movement is 
 quick, and combat is very fast paced. There are no ethical codes to adhere to unlike in some traditional 
 RPGs. You can't attack characters who aren't enemies, but if the game lets you destroy an object, 
 slaughter a creature, or pilfer a nonplayer character's possessions, then you can rest assured 
 that it's the right thing to do. Since causing chaos isn't penalized, action is almost constant 
 as your character frantically runs through levels, smashing objects and dispatching monsters or 
 other players.  

 Nox provides a separate single-player campaign for each of the three distinct character classes, 
 as well as a slew of multiplayer game options. Multiplayer Nox is a pure action game that features 
 respawning items, quick player kills, and geographically limited arenas; it's completely devoid 
 of character development and nonplayer characters or monsters, other than those you summon. The 
 gameplay in multiplayer Nox is closer in style to an isometric, swords-and-sorcery version of Quake 
 than it is to Diablo.  

 The single-player campaigns feature a few additional role-playing elements, as your character will 
 acquire experience points and solve simple quests, but the gameplay emphasis remains on action. 
 The campaigns are linear and level-based, so there's no way to personalize your experience other 
 than through your choice of attire and armaments. Surprisingly, there are also no difficulty settings, 
 so you must be adept at coping with occasionally frantic action to complete the campaigns. Fortunately, 
 Nox features a remarkably intuitive and effective interface that uses well-placed hotkeys to let 
 you quickly change weapons or access available spells and abilities. There's never been a more 
 efficient interface in such a game.  

 Each of the single-player campaigns is different, although characters travel through most of the 
 same areas and have the same overall quest. Since each of the three character classes has significantly 
 different abilities, the campaigns play out differently even when you're exploring familiar territory. 
 While a wizard character can peacefully stroll through the wizard's stronghold, a warrior character 
 will be immediately attacked. The uninspired story involves a dislocated trailer-trash youth assembling 
 a multicomponent artifact and stomping undead hordes led by a maniacal necromancer queen. The campaigns 
 are saturated with brief but entertaining scripted sequences that play out using the game's engine. 
 Westwood has a penchant for adding goofy humor into its RPGs, and the buffoonery partially compensates 
 for the plot's lack of originality. There are even a few laugh-out-loud moments, such as an amusing 
 scene early in one of the campaigns when an expected showdown with a formidable nemesis is prematurely 
 cut short in comical Raiders of the Lost Ark fashion.  

 Nox's most distinctive features are its method for handling line of sight and its interactive environments. 
 The trademark TrueSight line-of-sight system blacks out areas of the gaming world behind trees 
 or other obstacles that your character couldn't reasonably see beyond. The effect isn't revolutionary, 
 since 1983's Ultima III featured a rudimentary version of a similar system, and the result can 
 be more distracting than interesting. However, it definitely gives Nox its own look, and it's easy 
 to adjust to using the onscreen automap function if you require navigational assistance. Nox's 
 levels are also littered with moveable objects, such as bones, barrels, and furniture. Occasionally 
 you must use those objects to solve puzzles - pushing a barrel of water to drown a fire or to press 
 a pressure plate, for instance - but usually the objects are just there to be smashed or hurled 
 wildly across the room as they're struck by an explosive spell effect. A lot of attention to detail 
 went into Nox's level design, as dwellings are logically decorated with appropriate objects, and 
 subterranean lairs look suitably homey for their troll inhabitants.  

 Nox's two-dimensional, isometric graphics are highly detailed and similar in style to those in Ultima 
 Online and Diablo. Rather than take advantage of 3D acceleration, Nox instead just relies on those 
 mysterious, superseded MMX protocols you heard so much about in 1997 to create its impressive spell 
 effects. The game supports three different resolutions (640x480, 800x600, and 1024x768) , but the 
 highest resolution isn't practical for most gamers since the characters look tiny and screen scrolling 
 gets pretty choppy even on high-end machines.  

 The artificial intelligence of the monsters and nonplayer characters in Nox's campaigns is generally 
 excellent. Occasionally, you'll meet NPCs who will ally with your character for the duration of 
 a level. You'll have no control whatsoever over these characters, but they'll capably follow your 
 character and engage any enemies you encounter. Conjurer characters can also summon or charm creatures 
 that will loyally carry out basic commands until they are killed or banished. There are a couple 
 of memorable siege levels where a town or stronghold is attacked, and you can acquire a whole flock 
 of allies to fight the waves of intruders. Since the AI is generally so good, it's especially disappointing 
 that there's no way to cooperatively complete Nox's campaigns with other players.  

 The only notable AI flaw is that enemies at extreme visibility range won't react until they're attacked. 
 Since there's a variety of spells and weapons that either kill enemies instantly or do massive 
 damage, you can avoid some of the most challenging battles by advancing slowly and picking off 
 the immobile enemies as soon as they become visible. Like Grandma used to say, nothing clears a 
 path better than a gigantic Fist of Vengeance or death ray.  

 Early in its development, Nox was designed primarily as a multiplayer game, and the multiplayer 
 level design is excellent. Multiplayer characters possess all of their class's available abilities 
 and spells (other than those removed for gameplay balance) , which makes the deathmatch, capture 
 the flag, and other exotic multiplayer game types included with Nox more tactical than they typically 
 are in first-person shooters. Still, multiplayer Nox may not experience the longevity that more 
 visceral first-person-perspective games have enjoyed. But since each of the three character classes 
 has such different abilities, the single-player campaigns certainly provide a lot of value, especially 
 since they feature unique endings and quests.  

 It's probably unfair to simply categorize Nox as a Diablo clone since the game had been in development 
 limbo for years prior to its acquisition by Westwood. Westwood acquired the orphaned Nox following 
 the dissolution of Virgin Interactive's US gaming division, and the company has done a great job 
 finalizing the game for release. Even though the game could likely have been released several months 
 ago, the additional attention to detail put into the game since then has resulted in a streamlined 
 interface, solid single-player campaigns and, overall, a considerably more polished product. Even 
 the installation program is almost as interesting as the great one that shipped with the original 
 Command &amp; Conquer.  

 Nox could easily have been a game with a few original ideas that devolved into a hastily developed, 
 derivative, and uninteresting clone. Instead, the developers have taken the necessary time to create 
 a unique and polished game that offers different and enjoyable single- and multiplayer experiences. 
     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (29 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: icecoldfighter
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 18, 2009 12:35 am PT
Review:  When I was a little boy I only got games with some ocassions (my birthday, easter, X-mas) and when 
 a Chirstmas day came I got this game called NoX. I rushed at my computer to install and play it. 
 Even the interface of the installation charmed me. I knew I was going to play an awsome game. But 
 NoX was above my every expectation. The stunning gameplay and the story slowly have become to addict 
 me. When I was going outside with my friends we weren't playing normal games. We were playing NoX 
 (because everyone had it's own copy) . We were chosing one class and just play it using it's spells 
 (abilities) . This game brought us closer. We even made a contest: Who finishes NoX the first with 
 all classes . I won that contest but when we all finished the game we started to play on multiplayer. 
 There as well I was amazed by the stunning multiplayer. We were all playing together until that 
 black day came. Westwood was NO MORE. Now the multiplayer is almost that (only a few people are 
 still playing) . You won't find the game at the store anymore you will have to download it from 
 http://noxforums. net . Believe me this is an RPG that none player should miss. I feel really sorry 
 for NoX, it was my first RPG, I have a lot of memories with it...
  
  
  Graphics: 10/10 (for a game made in that time)
  Sound: 9/10
  Multiplayer: -it's dead-
  Gameplay: 
 10/10
  Storyline: 10/10
  Impressions: 10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ioanmosx
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 7, 2009 1:59 pm PT
Review:  Although 9 years old, Nox is still a game that can make you forget what you've been up to and continue 
 playing it just to see the next chapter. The story is unique (at least I haven't seen anything 
 similar yet) and the gameplay is flawless, offering 3 different campaigns with stunning actions 
 on their own. I would recommend this game for anyone who hasn't played it yet and I'm sure that 
 he won't be disappointed. The quests are given with the campaign reason, the spells of each class 
 makes the 3 campaigns a whole new adventure and the choice of which class you'd like the most will 
 be a little bit hard because the 3 of them are simply great! The control is mainly with the mouse 
 and in some cases you will have to use all of your energy to pass the challenge given to you, because 
 sometimes the game can be pretty easy, and sometimes can be pretty hard. When you complete the game 
 I'm sure you'll feel experienced and you would gladly point yourself to the next campaign :D So 
 get your hands on Nox and plunge into the adventures! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kobe_Bryant_LA
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 26, 2009 2:13 pm PT
Review:  I was pretty young when I got this game and from point one I loved it. It has easily been my most 
 played game over the years and the amazing graphics (for the time) really makes it worthwhile. 
 If I were you, I'd get my hands on Nox when I could. Unlike other games, it really has a story 
 and is not just senseless killing. I think, if you haven't played Nox you're not a real gamer. 
 The great array of weapons, armor and spells make the game play fantastic! It's a revolutionary 
 RPG and every person who owns a computer should have it. The first time I played this game I was 
 on it for hours. I could not turn it off! I'd never played a game this amazing before. My I've 
 played plenty of great games like from Diablo to Oblivion, but this one is the best. My final thought 
 is, if you want the best game in the universe, buy Nox!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamer-1024
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 26, 2009 4:57 am PT
Review:  When Nox was new it would have been difficult not to rate it a solid 10, however there was a thing 
 or two in multiplayer that I thougt was bizarre and or out of place, or was a problem in my opinion. 
 But over the years I've come to realize that what I thought was bizarre, or out of place or a bug, 
 or oddball feature, was gladly accepted by the Nox community at large so it was just my problem.
 
  
  As a single player game, there was little else at the time that could have touched Nox in the genre 
 it was classified back then.
  
  However with all good things must come and end, and so I decided to reload up Nox on my computer 
 with the jumbo monitor and give it another whirl into Nox.
  
  The opening movie played and we all laughed about bacon (we laughed because it's true!) and then 
 i settled in to play.
  
  I really shouldn't have tried, I should have just left it in memory. I remembered every secret 
 chamber and passage way, I remembered how to run the Gauntlat, I remembered pretty much everything 
 and what I couldn't remember I dug out of the Nox strategy guide, which is truly a guide for every 
 quest in the game and about 3 inches thick.
  
  Yeah, it didn't look as great as I remember it looking back then, my toon isn't very responsive 
 I said thinking fondly of my recent Sacred II characters, and the quests seem rather obvious don't 
 they.
  
  Yes, it should have just stayed in memory.
  
  If I were writing this review and scoring at the time NOX came out, it would surely be ranked a 
 10, but if I had to score NOX as if the game were just released today, it would get a paltry 2.
 
  
  Whoa, I know, what can I say. Let's face it, by todays standards, NOX is primitivve and looks like 
 schnitzel on a hot sidewalk on the larger monitors of today. The only thing still good about NOX 
 to this day, is having another read through the 3 or 4 inch thick strategy guide.
  
  A great game for it's time, but never really stood the sands of time like some others have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Voldy26
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 19, 2008 3:50 am PT
Review:  I don't know why they classed this game as an RPG, since it contains no roleplaying whatsoever, 
 but that doesn't detract from it at all. It is a fast-paced, engaging and humorous fantasy action 
 game that takes you through a wide variety of beautiful locations and has some very decent music, 
 as well. The interface is very easy to use and won't distract you from the game proper. You have 
 an enormous array of spells at your disposal - if you are playing as a wizard or conjurer, that 
 is - that you can use in various creative ways (even though only a handful are really needed to 
 get through the game) . The spell effects also look great, especially the lightning, in my opinion. 
 There is also plenty of equipment for you to find or buy, and who doesn't like dressing up their 
 character (this is especily important for the warrior, who compensates for his lack of spells with 
 impressive weapons and armor) ? Throughout the game you'll have to solve some puzzles (not too difficult) , 
 but mostly you'll be just running around killing stuff, and it'll be great fun, too. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sagekanar
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 17, 2008 8:02 am PT
Review:  If you enjoy an action / adventure RPG this is the one you should try. It is moderatly old but 
 it is still a great game. The graphics on this game are good for the time it came out and I believe 
 the game play is excellent. It is a top down view and I don't believe that you can change the camera 
 angle but it really isn't necessary. It kind of reminds me of the view from Ultima Online, although 
 I never really played that, one of my friends did and he showed it to me all the time. I do think 
 that the game goes by relatively quickly, that could just be because I played it quite a lot. This 
 game is very difficult to beat as a wizard, I know I beat it with some of the other classes of 
 characters but it has been so long since playing I don't remember what they were. Anyway have fun, 
 I'm sure you will enjoy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xaremathras
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 13, 2007 10:25 am PT
Review:  Nox is nearly perfect. It is probably the game I spent the most time on my whole life. I must've 
 beat it about 12 times as a Conjurer, 7 as a Warrior and 3 as a Wizard. I probably know every secret 
 in the game, it is one of the games that shaped my childhood. I've been playing it since about 
 a month after it came out. There is no multi player anymore, due to hackers, but the multi player 
 couldn't even compare to Single player. I love this game a lot. One of the greatest games ever 
 made. Even in 20 years, you'll see me still playing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Electroctoo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 23, 2007 6:55 pm PT
Review:  Great gameplay, i don't think it's a bad game. the lovely adventures and the mystic powers makes 
 you believe in an extraordinary world of magic and classic RPG's monsters.
  
  Like a previous review: if you liked diablo, you will love Nox.
  
  Nox it's a magic game that 
 follows the traditional virtual Role-Playing-Game's statistics. The Wizard it's a powerful character 
 with spells and a knowledge of God. The Conjurer it's a character with wisdom and dexterity that 
 can charm and summon the most incredible creatures. The warrior it's a strong and fast character 
 that defeat enemies with courage and honor.
  
  Nox it's very nice. A different game that sure will make you believe in magic.
  
  After a medium 
 time of playing, it becomes boring, like all other games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beniz008
Rating: 9
Date: May 23, 2007 12:34 am PT
Review:  i hope they will get out nox 2 if thay are planning one i hope thay are if yes that will be a great 
 game if this game was so good than if they will get out like nox 2 it will be great. i liked diablo 
 but it was a bit disipointing in the graphics but still its a good game. but all westwood's games 
 are just great like red alert 2 yuri's revenge very fun game its so adictive that you cant stop 
 playing but the new c&amp; c3 so good and fun even if EAgames is now its publisher and not westwood 
 but EAgames is very good too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: partytimekegs
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 12, 2007 12:23 am PT
Review:  I really had my doubts about this game until I played it at a friends house a long, long time ago. 
 At first I though, Bah, a Diablo rip off but I was way wrong. This game has great graphics for 
 its time and the way its presented fits the environment and setting of the game. Not only was I 
 extremely impressed about the single player, the multiplayer was even more enjoyable. Its quick, 
 intense, and right to the point. I really liked Diablo and Neverwinter Nights.. but this game just 
 had something about it that really had me hooked. Even in 2007, this is still a game that deserves 
 a look at. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JAJW
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 3, 2006 2:43 pm PT
Review:  This has to be one of the best PC games ever. It has excellent game play in which one can cast 
 a multitude of spells and summon fantastic creatures. This game takes skill, real skill. A good 
 player must have fast reflexes, decent aim, clever strategies, and determination. I know, it sounds 
 hard, but it's worth every minute of playing. The better you are, the more powerful you become, 
 and the more people recognize you as an excellent player. If you get really good, you will become 
 so feared people will just run away instead of fight you. I'm talking about online play -- real people, 
 not just CPUs. I could write a whole book about this game, but I'll keep it short. There are three 
 classes: Warrior, Conjurer and Wizard, in that order. Warrior is the easiest, although hard against 
 good Wizards. Wizards are extremely hard to start out with but are very rewarding in the long run, 
 and Conjurers are a bit of both, although I think their style of fighting is harder to perfect 
 than Wizards'. The levels are adventuresome, fun, dangerous, and intriguing. The game play is well-designed. 
 And the spells are many and magnificent. If you want a challenge, buy this game and play it. If 
 you want an easy-to-master but still fun game, buy something else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Com_Meister32
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 25, 2006 6:16 am PT
Review:  Nox is simply a wonderful rpg. It's been very overlooked and that may be because of Diablo and 
 other better advertised rpgs but it truly is a great game with 3 classes ( warrior, conjuror, sorceror) 
 and different intwining campaigns for each that will suck you in. The Nox world is huge with lots 
 of sidequests that will keep you playing for easily 100 hours if you try to accomplish all three 
 campaigns.
  
  Nox was simply ahead of its time yet poorly advertised.
  
  I would definitely pick this game up in a bargain bin for 5$ or less if your looking for a great 
 game to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: megafeck
Rating: 8.2
Date: Sep 27, 2006 5:49 pm PT
Review:  Nox is somewhat like diablo, so if you like that you may want to give this a try.
  
  You start of the game as Jack (default name, you can change it) and have a choice of becoming one 
 of three professions. You can be a conjurer, a wizard, or a warrior. Each profession is out to 
 stop the evil necromancer that has recently returned to wreak havoc on the land.
  
  The conjurer doesn't actually conjure much, but what he can do is charm various enemies. Once you've 
 charmed an enemy you can set him to do one of several things. You can set him to escort you, this 
 means he will attack anything that gets near you. You can set him to hunt, this means he'll go 
 out and find something to kill. You can set him to guard, this means he'll sit a guard a certain 
 spot until he dies or you tell him otherwise. You can banish him, this kills him. In order to charm 
 an enemy you must have his scroll. Each enemy throughout the game has a creature scroll, some are 
 easier to get than others. Most of the time you'll find these creature scrolls scattered throughout 
 the area in treasure chests, but you can get some from shop keepers as well. To get spells with 
 this character you must buy or find spell books
  
  The wizard gets various attack spells and hardly any hp at all. Normally about 3 hits and you're 
 dead. To counter this you get a force field spell that makes it so no one hit can kill you, and 
 it lasts through several hits. This means even if you have one hit point you cannot die as long 
 as the force field is up, but once it's broken you better run. You also get spells like magic missile, 
 lightning, and fireball. Scattered around the realm are mana stones these stones hold the power 
 of mana and by moving next to them you can recharge your mana. Each mana stone only holds so much 
 mana and must recharge once you taken it all. As with the conjurer to get spells you must find 
 or buy spell books. Probably the wizard's most powerful spell is invisiblity. I found myself using 
 this all the time because once you get into the game a ways there is no way a wizard can kill all 
 those enemies without running out of mana.
  
  The warrior get various attack skills. He gets no mana and a whole bunch of hp. For the warrior 
 to get skills you must level, he gets a new skill ever time he levels. To make up for his lack 
 of magic the warrior can use the most powerful weapons. While the wizard and the conjurer are limited 
 to staves (the conjurer can use staves and bows) the warrior can use swords, spears, axes, etc. 
 The warrior also gets by far the best selection of armor.
  
  After picking your profession the airship captain comes and tells you what to do. The airship captain 
 is the person who takes you to all the different quests you'll be doing. Each profession has a 
 different first quest, then after that they meet up. Each of the first quests have many signs along 
 the way that teach you how to use your spells, skills, and weapons.
  
  You can get many items, but not many results from them. You can get hp restore potions and mana 
 restore potions. Then you can get apples, steaks, cider, and other things all of which restore 
 various amounts of hp. You can also get things like cure poison potions and mushrooms (which also 
 cure poison but leave you walking funny for a while) Along your quest to defeat the necromancer 
 you'll find many hidden items, spell books, weapons, and creature scrolls. This game has quite 
 a lot of hidden stuff. The game also have many traps, sometimes when in caves the floors will fall 
 out from under you, but if you look close enough you can see the cracks where the floor will fall 
 through.
  
  The fights are much like diablo, or the legend of mana. They're different for an rpg. When you 
 run into an enemy the game doesn't go into a seperate fighting screen. The game just keeps going 
 and you have to kill it any way you can. You can target any enemy at any time and they can all 
 target you.
  
  The graphics are pretty good in this game. I especially like the lighting. When you cast a fireball 
 the whole room lights up and when that fireball hits its target, or a wall, it explodes into many 
 sparks.
  
  The control takes a bit of getting used to but it's not that bad once you've got it down. There 
 are many keyboard shortcuts for using items that I found to be very helpful.
  
  I recommend this game if you like the legend of mana or the diablo series. Obviously the story 
 is different, but the general game play is about the same. I had no problems running this game 
 on my system, but I hear a lot of people do so you'll want to watch out for that. I should also 
 mention that this game does have a multi player mode which can be pretty fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zapbomb
Rating: 8.2
Date: Sep 13, 2006 6:32 pm PT
Review:  Nox is an excellent role-playing game. it has three job classes - you can choose to be a warrior, 
 a wizard or a Conjurer. All three have different powers. The wizard specializes in magical spells 
 and staffs; the conjuror specializes in summoning spells and bows. The warrior is of course good 
 in the basic sword and shield stuff. This game has a good length and has good gameplay. This game 
 includes going through swamps infested with zombies, going through castles and crypts, and hunting 
 monsters and bandits in the wild All in all I recommend this game. It is a must-play for all RPG 
 fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: insane_oblivion
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 28, 2006 4:14 pm PT
Review:  When I first played NOX, I thought there were no finer game than this. Even now, it is still one 
 of my favourites. The combat system, the interface, and the physics of the game are very simple, 
 you run, you slash, you shoot, you fire magic, you summon creatures... but among the simple design, 
 many genious details exist to make the game a wet dream. The way chain lightning sticks to enemies 
 until every last one of them is dead, the traps, the quests, and the completion of the seemingly 
 impossible task through careful planning and management, they all rock. Even the quests for 3 difference 
 occupations are different because of diplomacy.
  
  GIVE US NOX 2! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cmpunmu3
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 1, 2006 12:51 pm PT
Review:  Beautifully designed world, lots of enemies with special abilities, lots of secrets, lots of magic 
 and combat.
  I chose to play with the mage and the favourite spell was lightning - i was unbeatable, though 
 it seemed that it would be greatly difficult without it.
  The game's mostly hack n' slash, not that many quests to solve, but the atmosphere was really inviting 
 and pleasant, i'd like to say that game makers did really a good job.
  Generally your targets are to defeat warlords and wizards in a fair fight, and it was quite difficult 
 in my opinion.
  Music is nice and graphics are good, magical spells look realistic and characters movements look 
 realistic as well.
  I found nothing special in this game, but liked it, and it stayed in my memory for unknown reason.
 
  Better plot and more quests to solve maybe would lift my spirit to count this game as one of the 
 best in my collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlackGoofy
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 21, 2006 3:31 am PT
Review:  This game is to my opinion one of the best ever made but still isn't worth a ten....
  
  At the beginning of the game you can choose between three "races" which one of the three you will 
 be.... You can choose: 
  Warrior= strong fighter, has no magic, lot's of very cool weapons, armory, swords, shuriken and what 
 so else you can use.
  Conjurur= An animal controler, has armory either but no swords and shuriken, although this race 
 is able to control a bow... and even better, to control and even summon animals and monsters.
  Wizard= Fights with nearly only magic or doesn't fights but sneaks by his enemy while he's invisible, has 
 ton's of spells from Lightning to Fist of Vengeance.
  
  The game is all about smashing your way trought ten hard levels full of monsters, animals, Necromancers 
 and the evil Hecubah herself.
  Hecubah is the evil boss you eventually have to defeat and the Necromancers are her apprentices 
 and bodyguards.
  This game is an RPG so you start quite weak with just a stick and a spell or something. While you 
 fight your way trough small spiders and Urchins you get stronger, and you get new weapons, new spells, 
 new options. 
  This continous througout the whole game.
  You have to fight your way trough Orc's later in the game and infiltrate their encampent and free 
 some captured woman, you get to stand eye before eye with stone Golums and really anoying beasts 
 who can change into chest's... which you usually open... then you suddenly figure out that it isn't 
 a chest but a beast with a hacking point on his chest.
  Your mission as I already told is to kill Hecubah and free Nox, but as you start as a weak warrior/conjurur 
 or wizard with just a stick, your mission leading to defeating Hecubah will be collecting an ultimatily 
 strong weapon, the Heart of Nox.... this weapon excist in parts as a hellbeard, a animal, a blue 
 stone, and some more parts.
  Through the ten levels you collect and configure your weapon to the Heart of Nox with which you 
 will in the end defeat Hecubah with.
  
  If you want the full experience of the game you should play it in all three modes, because the 
 ten levels are all the same indeed but there are much cool differences, like when you're an wizard 
 you will have to fight ogres in the Tower of Wizards while when you're an warrior you will have 
 to fight wizards in there. And you start the game in three different locations.
  
  And finally why you should play the game in all three modes is because the eleventh level, the 
 level in which you beat Hecubah, is different for all three modes.
  
  Al together this game is really a must-have for all gamers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 2k_rammerizkool
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 25, 2006 4:27 pm PT
Review:  Being blunt, his game is one of the most fun games i have ever played.
  
  But since i am not very good at really describing games, i'll just get on with the specs.
  
 
  Gameplay: Excellent. The controls are tight, hotkeys and spell/ability sets are easy to access 
 (much like in Diablo 2... except this is better) . Combat is solid and intuitive, as well as a fecking 
 blast. While sometimes i wish i could use "space" or something to attack (because running while 
 attacking, unless you are using spells [in which case, you stop entirely] , is hard, especially 
 when you are up against a psychotic warrior with a warhammer  _ ) .
  
  Graphics: A little dated, but still look great. Everything you wear, you can see on your person 
 (including lack of clothing, which means you'll be running around in your whitey-tighteys :P ) . 
 Spell effects are glowy and powerful, and explosions send off dozens of tiny particles that bounce 
 everywhere. I also like how you can only see what your character can see (even if it is in a 360-degree 
 view...) . It makes the game much more fun, especially in multiplayer, when you can hide, and where 
 you can see is where your enemies have to be to see you. I hope i worded that right :P
  
  Sound: Amazing. Every character has a voice (even though some are repeated) and they are all acted 
 out very well. Weapon sounds are very realistic, spells are, well, spelly-sounding. The music is 
 also very good. Each track is suited to your environment, and it really sets the mood.
  
  Value: Well, i don't remember how much it costs. But any price is good for this kind of game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: woef
Rating: 8.1
Date: Apr 7, 2006 5:30 am PT
Review:  Nox is a good game, because i know i used to play Nox every day in the past. (especially multiplayer, 
 which really rockZ)
  
  Gameplay:
  Lots of features in here, 3 different classes, different skills, different equipment.
  3 different 
 quests (all of them containing some unique subquests)
  Cool monsters and lots of maps.
  Online rocks too.
  
  Graphics:
  Normal, not very much too say here, the game looks good.
 
  
  Sounds:
  Dont have a clue what about the sounds, ill just give it a 7.
  
  Value:
  This is one of the best features of Nox, 3 different quests, which is really cool.
  It will take 
 you a few weeks too finish them all.
  
  Online:
  Very good, with deathmatch, ctf and team deathmatch.
  Played this all day long in the old times.
 
  
  Nox is a good game and i hope they will make a sequel some in some years!!!!!
  Later all 
::::::

::::::
UserName: battousai188
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jan 29, 2006 4:18 pm PT
Review:  When I bought this game a few months after it had been released I was in the middle of a Diablo 
 II online obsession. Nox's story... well the story isn't really their a trailer trash kid gets 
 sucked through a portal where you learn to become one of a few offered skilled jobs. Everything 
 about this game is one step below Diablo II if that is what Westwood was trying to do they didn't 
 quite hit the mark. The game however should provide a player with at least 15 fun hours of play. 
 A few annoyances with the game is everytime you cast a spell you have to watch these cheesy hand 
 movements and a crappy voice actor so some incoherant made up language, about 2 or 3 seconds of 
 this every spell you cast... Also it will cost an insane amount of gold to repair any items you 
 may have so if you have an awesome item, either use it seldomly or use the money cheat.
  
  Overall:
  Good cheap fun, worth purchasing out of your bargin bin for a sunday of bored game 
 play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ff7cloudking
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 28, 2005 6:04 am PT
Review:  This game may be a diablo rip-off, but it is a damn good game.
  
  The good:
  Three different classes, long story, great online/mutiplayer, lots of differnt weapons/armor/spells/other 
 stuff, cool storyline, and addictive gameplay. Also, music is great, voice overs are awesome, and 
 sounds are great.
  
  The Bad:
  Graphics could be a little better, and after your..... 5th time through as each class, it could 
 be a little old. 
  
  Overveiw:
  
  Nox is a great, face-paced, RPG. It has many weapons, and enough secret places to give you a good 
 reason to keep playing. 
  The boss battles are few, but are good. They keep you on your toes and offer some greater difficulty 
 to a somewhat easy game.
  The levels are all very big, and contain different enemies in each. Very few enemies will ever 
 repeat. 
  
  Any RPG fan, or PC owner should check this out. You don't need a very good PC to play this. I was 
 playing it on my older, lower quality lap top, and it ran perfect.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Komprido
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 27, 2005 3:38 pm PT
Review:  I have played this game a lot and a lot, and i still have fun. Nice graphics with a great isometric 
 view. The game play its nice too. Only the spells are a little squizzy because each table only 
 have 5 spells, and for a wizard or the conjurer its a little boring. But beside that, a great story. 
 Not to big and not to small. The sound its no big deal, but it fit just fine. The game could have 
 more items too. Instead , there is a big variety of spells. I recommend this game to all rpg fans, 
 because they wont be disapointed. Ahh, the fact that each caracter start in diferente places and 
 the story changes also in each of them is nice too. For me a great value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raider5k
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 26, 2005 12:52 pm PT
Review:  nox is a very old pc game, but its still a very good game, you can have hours of fun playing this 
 very adictive game
  you can choose out of either a
  warrior
  mage
  conjurer (summons beats as pets)
  
  during playing this game, you fight many monsters, any 
 bosses, and you collect better armor and weapons on the way, i completed this game on all 3 classes 
 and it was just as fun on each of them, the warrior was the best tho
  
  if you wanna play this game i highly recomend it, so adictive and will give you hours of fun
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SZeroC
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 20, 2005 4:16 am PT
Review:  Definition Of Progress: Hicks Can Be Heroes Too!
  
  Who would have thunk that a bacon lovin' auto-mechanic named Jack could end up saving a world from 
 sticky zombie death? Sure, the old notion of an earther going off to fight in a distant, fantastic 
 realm has been around since Ultima, but the Avatar was always a clean-shirted, educated, civilized 
 type probably even a Harvard man. So Jack, lacking all academic preparation, shouldn't 
 have a chance, right? Especially when this feeble brained, chitlin' eatin' fool has to contend 
 with a Necromancer named Hecubah, who looks like a permanent fixture on every German-Dungeon-Porn 
 producer's casting list.
  
  On top of that, the poor fool got sucked into that trans-dimensional vortex just because he was 
 standing to close to his TV! [My mom always said sitting too close to the TV was bad for you ~Ed] 
 Hell, I suppose he'll just have to get drunk and open up a can of whoop-ass on the creatures of 
 the netherworld and show that missy dominatrix what her place is.
  
  If you haven't guessed yet, this is not a straight Diablo clone. Many of you might look at the 
 screenshots, figure that Westwood Studio's new game, NOX, is a poor man's Diablo 2 and pass on 
 it. That would be a big mistake. NOX is much more of a Gauntlet XL. It takes fast action and a 
 focus on combat, combines them with an isometric perspective, and puts in some light RPG elements 
 like character classes, levels, and inventory. This makes a game that might appear to be Diablo's 
 bastardized, amphetamine-freak cousin, but has a warm, fuzzy feel all it's own.
  
  In NOX, you (as Jack) must journey through the land as a Wizard, Conjurer, or Warrior, slaughter 
 thousands of critters, assemble the "staff of oblivion," and rout Hecubah. If you don't, everyone 
 in NOX dies and you don't get to go back to your trailer where your girlfriend is cooking you some 
 tasty pig-meat. Gameplay is almost strictly linear: You must proceed form point A to B to 
 etc. There are some mazes along the way and some side quests in the few towns you pass through, 
 but for the most part NOX is about as linear as Half-Life. This design focus allowed the designers 
 to create the environments with action in mind, and the result is a fast-paced massacre of everything 
 bad and nasty.
  
  The three classes actually create 3 distinctly different gaming experiences. Although most of their 
 quests take place on the same ground and are effectively very similar, there are variations in 
 locales and objectives that make the journeys themselves quite different. Also, the three classes 
 have entirely different play dynamics. The Wizard mostly casts spells and lays magical traps but 
 is extremely lacking in both weapons and armor. The Conjurer charms creatures to fight for him 
 or uses some light spellcasting along with some light armor and mostly bow & arrow weapons. The 
 Warrior can buff up with weapons and armor beyond any sissy magic-user's dream and kick some undead 
 butt up close and personal.
  
  The difficulty of the campaigns are different, so that a progression of Warrior-Conjurer-Wizard 
 offers the most complete easy-to-hard progression through the game (you can choose which class 
 when you start a new quest) . The fact that each class is a very different experience, far more 
 so than in traditional class-based RPGs, means that there is a whole lot of single-player and multi-player 
 gameplay in NOX. Whether charming, casting, or slashing, NOX makes for a good time that will keep 
 you coming back for a lot more than you would expect.
  
  Shirking modern convention, NOX is an action-oriented game created entirely with 2D sprites. Not 
 a single polygon can be found, and in NOX's case, that is not a problem. The graphics are sharp, 
 clean, and beautiful representations of a fantasy world that lack nothing for the non-inclusion 
 of the Z-dimension. Nice flashy touches such as the vibrant spell effects and a cursor that trails 
 golden fire-dust make for pleasing eye candy to round out the picture and keep you focused. There 
 is even a unique visibility system that dynamically blocks any area not directly visible to Jack 
 (assuming he could always see in a 360 degree circle) that keeps the mood ominous and creates some 
 appealing shadow-like effects.
  
  Best of all, the 2D nature of the game makes system performance a non-issue on most systems. It 
 has been quite a while since a good action game came out that ran well, at maximum detail, on any 
 decent system you might have at home, and that alone is one of NOX's better achievements.
  
  Sound is also done well. The music is either calming or invigorating to fit the situation, 
 well composed, and never tiresome. Effects are handled well and in a very good move, every spoken 
 word in the game is not merely text, but also speech. Far too many RPGs can become clinical because 
 of a lack of voice interaction and too much text, so it's nice to hear every word for yourself. 
 It also helps that the mood of the game, overall, tends somewhat toward whimsical comedy (trailer-trash 
 hero and all) which benefits much from spoken dialogue.
  
  The interface in NOX is a fairly simple affair. Most of the work is done with the mouse, though 
 spell casting and other advanced actions are carried out on the keyboard. Inventory is a pull down 
 screen and you always have a view of the action. It's a very easy to learn system that should have 
 any gamer up to speed well before the training portions for the characters are completed.
  
  NOX is a straightforward, fun game. The action elements are fettered only by some slight RPG 
 ingredients which effectively add the depth that is needed to keep your attention and make slashing 
 yet another sprite-based-beasty a thrill every time. It's not revolutionary or real obsession material, 
 but it sure is good, sweet fun. So fuel up on collared greens and just ignore that knocking noise 
 the Pontiac is making; Jack's not going to be around to fix it for a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ck_the_assassin
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 18, 2005 11:46 am PT
Review:  After browsing through a few online review archives, I realized that nobody has reviewed this game 
 since Westwood released the Nox Quest add-on, and what with Westwood. com being a redirect link 
 to a Command & Conquer site, I'm convinced that it's time for some solid information on this equally 
 solid game.
  
  For those of you who love to label: Nox is a third-person action RPG, set in a fantasy world of 
 the same name, far distant from (or possibly parallel to) our own. If you choose not to customize 
 your character when starting a new game, you control Jack, the trailer-trash white boy who was 
 drawn to Nox by the mystic powers of a magical artifact he used to keep on top of his TV. The game 
 offers three distinct single-player campaigns and a host of options for multiplayer mayhem; players 
 can compete over Westwood Online or over a local area network, if they're connected to one. I'll 
 first discuss the game's single-player mode in detail; after that I'll shed some light on the multiplayer 
 modes and the Quest add-on.
  
  Rather than forcing the player to choose between good and evil (a la Star Wars: Knights of the 
 Old Republic) , Nox instead allows you to choose between three very differing professions. The world 
 of Nox is divided into three separate factions: the strong, lionhearted Warriors (led by the Warlord 
 Horrendous) ; the cunning, mystical Conjurers (represented by Master Conjurer Aldwyn) and the crafty, 
 magically adept Wizards (taught by the Grand Wizard Horvath) . The Wizards and Warriors are opposite 
 halves of an age-old blood feud, while the Conjurers maintain a sort of moral middle ground between 
 them. Each of these three 'classes' has its own strengths and weaknesses; no class can be said 
 to be 'best', but the hands-on approach often necessary when playing a Warrior may appeal to some 
 players more than the stealthy tactics that a Wizard is most often forced to rely on, for example. 
 
  
  The single-player campaigns are divided into chapters and all follow essentially the same story; 
 the first three chapters are unique to each class and take the player through the steps necessary 
 to become established in the profession of their choice (for Warriors this consists of running 
 'The Gauntlet', a series of grueling physical tests; for Conjurers it means charming and banishing 
 several demons from an underground mine; Wizards must locate Horvath's apprentice in addition to 
 retrieving several artifacts for him) . From the fourth chapter, however, the story becomes the 
 same per class: find out if the Necromancer queen Hecubah is raising the dead to do her bidding 
 and assemble an ultimate weapon to stop her. 
  
  The game's mechanics are greatly reminiscent of Diablo & Diablo II in that the game sports a point-and-click 
 interface by default, allowing you to walk, run and attack with the same button. Unfortunately, 
 because the game assumes that you are not going to be moving and interacting with anything at the 
 same time, it isn't possible to move & shoot, making clever 'hit-and-run' attacks on large groups 
 of monsters with a ranged weapon or quick spell impossible. This can become frustrating when there 
 is a huge, slow golem bearing down on you and the crossbow that could probably kill it in a few 
 hits forces you to stand completely still after every shot, not even allowing you to cast a defensive 
 spell, for long enough to allow said golem to catch up and pound you into the ground with a single 
 blow.
  
  Something relatively ground-breaking (although by no means novel) is the game's line-of-sight system. 
 It realistically mimics human eyesight by painting areas behind solid objects black. With the exception 
 of magically erected walls, you won't be able to see anything coming if it's coming from behind 
 an obstacle. 
  
  The player has access to up to five spells (as a Wizard or Conjurer) or abilities (as a Warrior) 
 at a time; these can be bound to any five keys you like. I have mine set to NumPad 7, 4, 5, 1 and 
 2 (so I can use the up arrow to move forward and the Enter, Shift and NumPad 0 keys to jump, invert 
 spell targets (useful for healing allies, for example, as a Wizard or Conjurer) and switch weapons 
 respectively) , but the standard 'ASDFG' setup may work better for you. As in a lot of areas, Nox 
 allows the player freedom to customize. In addition to his five spell/ability slots, the player 
 has access to three quick potion/item slots that can likewise be bound to keys of your choice: 
 a Cure Poison slot, a Health slot and (for the magic users) a Mana slot. Pressing any of these 
 keys will consume one of the corresponding items, if the player has any.
  
  The game's AI is good for the time at which it was released (Q1of 2000) , but lacking in some departments. 
 For example, most monsters have a range of vision that is just barely smaller than your screen. 
 This equates to being able to see them (and take a shot at them) well before they can do the same 
 to you. And even when they do take offense at being nailed from afar with various sharp objects 
 (if the first hit doesn't kill them on the spot) , they'll be temporarily possessed by Rambo's one-man-army 
 mentality and depart from their group (as you'll find most monsters languishing as part of a herd 
 of their kind, with a few notable exceptions) in search of the offender, from which position you'll 
 usually be able to slaughter them without interference. And if you're skillful or powerful enough 
 to kill your target in one shot, the monsters left behind will not seek to avenge their dead buddy 
 but will stand there like big gnarly sheep with swords and wait for the next blow to fall. Huh?
 
  
  The game's friendly AI could use some tweaking, too. Often on your journeys you'll encounter citizens 
 of Nox in various predicaments; by rescuing them from their grisly fates, you'll seal the bonds 
 of friendship between you and they will follow you around everywhere, until they die or the game 
 dictates that it's time for them to leave. You'll find lone Wizards in Ogre cages, Conjurers being 
 torn to shreds by ravening black wolves, Warriors flocking to your side en masse to defend their 
 home from the Undead. While the scripting is handled quite nicely and your allies can usually take 
 care of themselves, they're prone to airheaded feats of stupidity, such as charging a mob of skeletons 
 single- and empty-handed, or walking over a blatantly obvious trap and getting roasted, skewered 
 and crushed several different ways before you can coax them out of danger by walking in the opposite 
 direction. As a Conjurer, you'll frequently experience moments when a creature you have charmed 
 or summoned goes out of its way to hunt down a pesky little underling that isn't worth the time 
 spent killing it, only to either fail and be mobbed by crowds of said underling, or to succeed 
 and attempt to return to your side over spike pits, traps and whatnot.
  
  Under these small scabs of frustration, however, is an incredibly engaging gameplay experience. 
 The game is an action RPG, so you'll spend more time going head-to-head with hordes of hostiles 
 than you'll spend making careful choices concerning your character, but the role-playing aspect 
 of the game serves its purpose well. Your character's inital appearance isn't quite as customizable 
 as some other games (you're limited to a T-shirt, jeans and sneakers in the beginning, as well 
 as being able to choose your skin color, hair color and hair style) , and the kinds of armor you 
 can wear are limited by your choice of profession (Warriors can wear the heavy metal, Conjurers 
 can don leather armor and Wizards have to make do with robes) , but you still retain a certain feeling 
 of freedom when choosing your character's attire. 
  
  Interspersed throughout baddie-bashing sessions and plot-advancing cutscenes (which the game's 
 engine handles efficiently) are several mild puzzles. Nothing so fiendish as The Legend Of Zelda 
 or as immersive as Myst; most of the puzzles require a few simple leaps of logic and either timing, 
 knowledge of your environment or both. They usually involve keys (of varying metals and precious 
 gems) and switches (ones you can activate by shooting, ones you need to operate by hand or ones 
 you can activate by placing a suitably heavy object atop them) and are necessary to advance to 
 the next area.
  
  The game's level design is, in a word, brilliant. Environments come to life as remote villages, 
 imperturbable castles and subterranean fortresses bustle with civilian activity; swamps buzz with 
 (sometimes harmful) insect and plant life; crypts creak and groan and are rife with bones and spiderwebs 
 (and sometimes more) . There are numerous secret areas to be found and exploited; hidden behind 
 fragile walls or across flaming pits of magma. Some areas force you to retrace your steps after 
 hitting a switch or grabbing a key; some areas are utterly dark and prevent you from seeing the 
 small cross in the ground that denotes an imminent pitfall until it's too late (or until you cast 
 a light-shedding spell) ; rocks fall from the ceiling in unstable mines and elevators (of various 
 descriptions) grind and click as they convey you up and down.
  
  Westwood added a large dose of individual realism to the actors in the game; items make distinctive 
 sounds when used or dropped (for example, the glassy clink of a bottle filled with potion as opposed 
 to the sharp metallic clang of a sword hitting the wall or the ground) , enemies appear and are 
 dispatched in a similar fashion (zombies fall to the ground and will get up again if not incinerated; 
 skeletons rise from coffins and burst into a pile of bones and armor; wolves leap from hidden dens 
 and keel over with an almost pitiful whimper; demons stride over lava flows and explode in a blaze 
 of brimstone) . Even the civilian population of Nox is brought to life well; people in the street 
 will make conversation when prompted; Wizard shopkeepers will respond with distaste towards a Warrior; 
 you will even be harassed when walking as a Warrior in the Wizards' citadel of Galava (and arrested, 
 whether or not you respond with force) . 
  
  The weapons you can wield are also of admirable design; they range from simple swords and staves 
 (with or without various enchantments) to throwing stars, bows and arrows; from maces, axes and 
 great hammers to staves with powerful spellcasting abilities (notables such as the Conjurer's Force 
 Of Nature staff or the Wizard's Lightning staff come to mind) . Thanks to the liberal application 
 of adjectives and enchantments, the list of items you can acquire while playing is nearly endless 
 (items range from 'Flimsy' to 'Mighty' to 'Divine' in durability and carry enchantments such as 
 'of the Tick' (vampirism) , 'of Embers' (fire) and 'of Collison' (knockback) ) . As with armor, some 
 classes restrict the use of certain weapons. Also, some weapons work better than others against 
 certain foes: giant mechanical machines of war are immune to fire, as are certain breeds of demon; 
 a spider or scorpion will show far better resistance to poison than a human bandit. However, barring 
 a certain sense of logic, discovering these weaknesses and wards is largely a matter of trial and 
 error, and often you'll waste a lot of ammunition or mana on an approach that doesn't work before 
 getting smoked and realizing that there might be a better way to go about doing it.
  
  Unfortunately, going about doing it differently can be a pain sometimes, due to Nox's user-unfriendly 
 inventory system. Rather than use a logical 'this item goes here, that one goes there' system like 
 Diablo, Nox makes the player scroll through pages of square slots to find each item. This may actually 
 be my greatest complaint concerning the game's mechanics; often I left myself with a sub-par weapon 
 because I couldn't be bothered to find a better one in the labyrinthine folds of my inventory. 
 You're allowed a single slot for a secondary weapon, which you can switch to and from at the press 
 of a key, but even this system is flawed; you can equip a shield, for example, as a Warrior, but 
 if you switch to a two-handed weapon like a hammer or halberd, you'll need to manually re-equip 
 the shield after you switch back. A Conjurer's bows require slightly less maintenance; they will 
 automatically find a quiver and equip it if you don't select one prior to firing.
  
  All in all, and despite several minor flaws, Nox provides an engaging, addictive single-player 
 experience with a not-too-steep learning curve, while requiring some ingenuity to come up with 
 effective strategies (imbuing a small, voracious creature with a stationary cloud of poison gas 
 and a spell that forces the target to remain still remains one of my favorite tactics as a Conjurer) . 
 However, once you've seen the three campaigns through, you'll be tired of Hecubah's menacing, lightly 
 suggestive tones and the continual assault of exploding fireballs on your eardrums. For the game's 
 real replay value, Nox die-hards can turn to its multiplayer functionality and the Nox Quest add-on.
 
  
  In its simplest form, multiplayer Nox is a slag-fest between two or more players; they choose a 
 class, create a character (in a similar way to starting a single-player campaign) and jump in with 
 a few weapons and all the skills or spells for their class available to them. Additional game modes 
 come in the form of Capture The Flag (do I really need to explain this?) , FlagBall (like soccer, 
 in a way, but with violence, and flags instead of goals) , Elimination (last man standing is the 
 winner) and a game mode reminiscent of King-of-the-Hill: one player is 'It', and gains points for 
 each second he stays 'It', the others all get points for killing him (and by doing so, become 'It' 
 themselves) . 
  
  When pitted against each other (by human players) , the strengths and weaknesses of each particular 
 class are even more easily distinguishable. Warriors, with their heavy metal armor, become easy 
 prey to a Wizard's Lightning spells, and their general inability to mix it up successfully with 
 large groups of opponents puts them at a disadvantage when facing a skilled Conjurer. However, 
 they deal the greatest direct damage per attack and possess two methods of closing the gap between 
 themselves and a fleeing spellcaster (Berserker Charge and Harpoon) , as well as a way to defend 
 against spells in their immediate vincinity (War Cry) . Wizards have to rely on stealth and deceptive 
 tactics to succeed over the other two classes, because face-to-face with either of them, they just 
 don't have the raw physical prowess or armor-wearing capabilities to keep up. However, with powerful 
 spells like Fireball and Death Ray, obstacle-creating spells like Wall and Lock, stealth spells 
 like Invisibilty, and the ability to create deadly traps, teleport to safety or become temporarily 
 invulnerable, an adept Wizard can be a major headache for his opponents. Conjurers, with their 
 comparatively thin leather armor, will have to stay on their toes to avoid direct damage and fire 
 spells (as fire does extra damage to leather armor in a way similar to electricity versus metal) 
 and pick off their foes at range with bow and arrow while their 'pets' harrass the enemy up close 
 and personal. 
  
  Finally, before I get into the technical aspects of Nox's gameplay, I'll go into what was for me, 
 and presumably for other content-hungry Nox fans as well, a breath of fresh air: Westwood's Nox 
 Quest add-on. This expansion pack was released together with the version 1.2 patch and was available 
 at no cost. Since its release, however, Westwood. com has become a referral link to EA's Command 
 & Conquer page, and the expansion executable has become rather hard to come by (I got mine from 
 FileShack; it's presumably still out there somewhere) . 
  
  Nox Quest is a single- and multiplayer add-on that allows you to adventure through several entirely 
 new but familiar maps (styled after, for example, the Temple of Ix or the Underworld from the single-player 
 game) , alone or with up to six people at once, while facing seemingly endless hordes of monsters 
 and some positively devious puzzles. In contrast to single-player mode, the object of Quest mode 
 is to find the exit and advance to the next stage, destroying as many monster-summoning Obelisks 
 as you can along the way. Level design is even more intuitive than it was in the original game, 
 with puzzles that sometimes require skills particular to each class (for example, while adventuring 
 as a Conjurer I came across a door that wouldn't open and a quartet of pressure panels in the floor; 
 it was impossible to keep all four activated and walk through the door to the significant amount 
 of treasure beyond, and I had to summon four small creatures and force one to remain still on each 
 plate before the way forward was laid bare) . For those of you who moaned about the lack of a co-op 
 mode for Nox when it was first released; your waiting has paid off. And it was well worth the wait, 
 in my opinion.
  
  In conclusion, I'll cast a glance at the rating bars at the bottom of the 'Write a Review' page 
 and give my reasons for the ratings I gave. Nox' gameplay receives a big, fat 9, simply because 
 of the fun I had running through crypts and towns and dungeons in my leather duds and bow (or plate 
 mail and sword, or robes and staff) , slaughtering hordes of monsters and saving the day (with one 
 seriously bad mother of an ultimate weapon. But I'll leave that discovery to you) . The graphics 
 get the lowest passing grade, a 6, because I've seen better within this genre. Not that they aren't 
 impressive for a game from 2000, but what can I say? I'm a perfectionist. Sound gets a 7, because 
 although it outscores a lot of games in both musical score and sound effects, the sounds get repetitive 
 and boring after prolonged periods of gaming. As far as quality goes, though, Nox sounds top-notch. 
 Speaking in terms of overall value, Nox scores an 8, for its combination of solid gameplay, good 
 replay value and neglible flaws in AI, graphics and sound. 8.2 pretty much says everything that 
 remains to be said about Nox; if you haven't already, go out and buy it!
  
  CK 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RRLevering
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 23, 2005 8:55 am PT
Review:  Diablo was an amazing game, especially for it's time. The action RPG genre, while still underrepresented 
 and struggling to define itself in the RPG world, was even less developed in the 90s.
  
  Nox came along a little bit later, without nearly the same marketing hype or fanbase. However, 
 after playing the game for even five minutes you realize that in gameplay it's almost exactly the 
 same. It's a third-person isometric view that you navigate and click on monsters/items to interact 
 with them.
  
  One of the things that in my mind really marked the first Diablo was the mood the game created. 
 The dungeon/hell atmosphere punctuated by an amazingly eerie soundtrack really pulled the player 
 into the game experience. Nox lacks this distinction, having a more traditional RPG atmosphere. 
 However, the upside to that is that the world is not very repetitive.
  
  To say that it's a clone, however, is not really giving it full credit. It features some line-of-sight 
 mechanics, and a separate storyline for each profession. However, in the end of the day, the single 
 player game is still the same idea. The multiplayer is worth taking a look at on it's own, but 
 I'm not a multiplayer fan, so I'll leave that review to some one else.
  
  Overall, I wouldn't advise this game to the action RPG fan of this day and age, but it served its 
 purpose, filling in the gap until later greats, like Diablo 2 and Dungeon Siege, could improve 
 on the genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mysour
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 17, 2005 5:42 pm PT
Review:  At first I borrowed it at the library, and I loved it, it's so much fun, I played it alot, even 
 my older sister got addicted to it, although she never got to finish it.
  Although it still has some weakpoints, not many though, it still is an wonderfull game to play, 
 with a good storyline, and a good character designer, plus the three differant order of people 
 you could play as, Wizards, Warriors, and, uh, a mix of the both that can summon animals, each 
 of those have there own path of the storyline, and the cutscenes are nice, especially the ending 
 cutscenes of each class, are especially rewarding.
  The game has many differant weapons, spells, and other equipment that you can choose from, and 
 you'll always be going, wow a new bow or, wow new wrist guards, and some equipment, even offers 
 magical bonuses. To top it all there are shurikins that return to you.
  The story is about a guy named Jack who is a regular, trailer trash, type guy, with a nagging wife, 
 hes in the middle of watching the game, and gets sucked into a mysterious globe on his tv. Mokuba, 
 the villan of the game, is trying to collect the pieces of an ancient and very powerfull staff, 
 you as Jack go on your own quest to collect the pieces. Very immersive, and fun, I rate it as a 
 deffinate classic, and overall better then the Diablo games put together, go and buy the game online 
 to play the best RPG that ever hit stores.
  Although the graphics arn't exactly it's strong point, it more than makes up for it in its wonderfull 
 and addicting gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Everclearules
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 12, 2005 6:05 pm PT
Review:  Nox is a game that is somewhat similar to Diablo in gameplay, though it focuses more on the single 
 player campaign instead of finding items and leveling. 
  
  I know many did not like Nox's graphics, but I really enjoyed them, especially the spell effects. 
 Perhaps they were just 'unique' compared to other games. The grahpics are a little bright and colorful, 
 which definintly can come off as kid like, but atleast it's not to the point of being cartoon like.
 
  
  The controls are very similar to Diablo, and thankfully, just as responsive. Left clicking attacks 
 and moves, but spells are handled a little differently. Instead of calling up the spell and right 
 clicking, you have a small spell set on the bottom of your screen which can hold 5 spells of your 
 choosing. There are 5 spell sets in all that can be alternated between so you can cast just about 
 any spell your character has with only a few button presses. To actually cast the spell though, 
 it simply requires you to face in the direction you want to casts the spell (moving the cursor 
 in that direction) and pressing the corresponding key.
  
  However, with all those keys it will take a bit of memorization on your part and quick fingers 
 to get to the spell set and cast the spell you want. Fortunantly, that only applies to the Conjurer 
 and Wizard since the Warrior only has 5 skills in all.
  
  There are only 3 characters, which disapointed me alittle, plus the warrior only has 5 skills he 
 can use. Though I did find all 3 characters well balanced, and each could defeat the other if played 
 right. Playing online was even better seeing as how you had to find items in the level to use, 
 instead of using items you had already found in other games (as with alot of other RPGs) . This 
 made playing online much more fair and depended much more on your skill and not just your items. 
 All 3 characters also start out Multiplayer games knowing all skills and spells of their class.
 
  
  The characters are still quite unique and all require a different style of play. The Warrior doesn't 
 require you to cast spells left and right but that means you must know how to block those spells. 
 You also have the grappling ability which pulls another character towards you allowing you to catch 
 up to them.
  
  The Conjurer, as would be obvious, conjures up creatures to help him fight. How many creatures 
 you can summon depends on their size. You can either summon 4 small creatures or 2 medium creatures, 
 or one large creature, or 1 medium and 2 small, you get the point. The summons are not that spectacular 
 by themselves but they're only meant to help you fight, not be your main source. Thankfully, the 
 conjurer also has some of the most powerful spells as well, though they are easily blocked. Still, 
 with the right timing or set up, he can be extremely deadly.
  
  The Wizard is constantly casting spells, Defensive and Offensive alike. Mostly you'll be trying 
 to trick others by teleporting around, casting spells to slow or make your enemy drop his weapons, 
 or by setting traps. The wizard can be quite a difficult character to play since it requires you 
 to be able to call up and cast spells very quickly, but he can also be one of the most powerful 
 if you can do that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ItchyBoots
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 12, 2004 1:23 am PT
Review:  The highlight in this game is the multiplayer. Chaotic, fast-paced action describes it best. Three 
 classes; warrior, mage, and the conjurer all extremely different. The conjurer was the most interesting, 
 using nature, exotic spells, bows and arrows to dispatch your enemies. The campaign was pretty 
 good as well, with lightly humorous cutscenes and a well done but cliche' plot. The gameplay consists 
 of puzzles, mazes, traps, and the countless slaughter of hordes of monsters. The range of monsters 
 was austoinding, from imps to zombies the long campaign against evil had many different faces.
 
  
  The ending was a blast, literally. I dont want to give anything away but they put you in a turkey-shoot 
 position that is a lot of fun. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
