-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: O.R.B.
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/orb/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 12, 2002
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.5
Critic Score: 7.2, 24 Review (s)
User Score: 7.6, 151 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Strategy First
Genre: Sci-Fi Real-Time Strategy
Date:     Nov 4, 2002
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
O. R. B. lacks inspiration, but it's a decent real-time strategy game for those who are tired of being 
 confined to terra firma. 

 Though the developer of O. R. B. is quick to point out that the game was in development before Relic's 
 1998 space strategy game Homeworld, it's difficult to not notice the similarities. It plays and 
 looks much like Homeworld, and the differences are only incremental. O. R. B. features a different, 
 and inferior, method of resource gathering and a few good changes to Homeworld's basic mechanics. 
 But the core game is almost identical, right down to the cobalt-blue interface. O. R. B. is a straightforward 
 real-time strategy game set in space: You harvest resources, build fighters and capital ships, 
 and research new technologies, with which you'll take on enemy forces. Unfortunately, in the single-player 
 game, you do all of these things in a somewhat lackluster campaign, though the multiplayer is somewhat 
 better.           Commandeering an enemy vessel.    

  One of the most significant problems with O. R. B.'s campaign is that the story is boring. It involves 
 warring factions and an ancient alien race with advanced technology -- in other words, it's the same 
 old sci-fi storyline that seems to pop up in every game set in space. O. R. B. uses in-game cutscenes 
 and has some nice production values, but the story itself holds few surprises. At one point during 
 the first campaign, a scene that's meant to be suspenseful ends with the revelation that the enemy 
 has cloaking technology, which, given the circumstances, isn't really all that surprising. The 
 campaign missions are challenging but not much more exciting than the story. Most start off with 
 a unique goal and then descend into "remove the enemy from the sector."   

  Removing your enemies is often surprisingly difficult. O. R. B. uses two means of limiting your unit 
 production, one good and one bad. You have a limited amount of manpower, and this is split between 
 pilots, researchers, and spies as you see fit. If you want to research new technologies quickly, 
 you'll need to sacrifice firepower. However, this isn't really much of a problem, because you can 
 increase your manpower through research and by building new bases.   

  Unfortunately, O. R. B. limits you in another way as well. There are only a few resource deposits 
 on any of the game's maps. To find them, you must build recon ships and scan asteroids for deposits. 
 Once you find an asteroid with resources, you must send a resource base to build a mine. The mine 
 then sends resources back to your primary base via freighters. It wouldn't be a bad system, except 
 that you tend to be very short on resources in most missions, which makes it impossible to research 
 everything and still have a decent-sized force. Even worse, the limited amount of resources available 
 in each map causes many missions to come to a similar end; you'll end up hunting down stragglers 
 with whatever forces you have left and with all of your funds long gone. As a result, most missions 
 begin as a race to the resource deposits and end with a somewhat boring chase around the map.  

  Both of the game's two playable factions have a good variety of ships to research and build. You 
 have numerous types of fighters, each of which can be improved through further research. You can 
 add better armor or add missiles or torpedoes to their arsenals. Unfortunately, you can't upgrade 
 already-built ships to better versions, but you can scrap the old ones and build new ones. You 
 can also commission powerful -- but expensive -- capital ships that can slice through enemy ships with 
 their beam weapons.   

  O. R. B. also has some excellent ship controls. You can easily modify a ship's or group's automatic 
 behavior, choose formations, set their attack and defense priorities, and order them to fight until 
 they take a certain amount of damage, at which point you can then have them flee to a repair bay. 
 The variety of available behaviors makes combat somewhat more interesting and helps preserve units 
 in a game where every last bit of funds you spend on your ships is important. It's also good because 
 the default AI isn't very smart. Your units will lock onto a target and then ignore ships blasting 
 away at them from behind so that you have to micromanage them to make sure they're aiming for the 
 right targets. In large-scale battles, this can become impossible.   

  Playing the game in the 3D view gives you well-rendered if typical vistas of ships, asteroids, 
 and colorful planets. Unfortunately, O. R. B. is more efficiently played from the 2D map, which consists 
 of little more than colored dots. It's a shame that the game isn't easier to play in the 3D view, 
 because it's obviously more exciting to watch your ships in combat than little colliding blips. 
 But the 2D mode is a more straightforward means of surveying the whole map and keeping tabs on 
 all of your various units.   

  Like the graphics, O. R. B.'s sound is well executed but a bit generic. Your units respond to commands 
 in their native language, but unless you actually speak the game's alien Maltusian language, it 
 all tends to sound the same. The music is pleasant and ambient and becomes dramatic when you encounter 
 the enemy.           You'll give most of your commands from the 2D map.    

  The story problems of the campaign obviously don't affect the skirmish or multiplayer games, and 
 the game features an internal matching service that makes finding opponents an easy task. The multiplayer 
 and skirmish games suffer from some of the single-player's resource problems, but they also let 
 you modify the game to your liking by letting you alter research times and costs, as well as start 
 with more resources if you so desire. Because of these options, the multiplayer and skirmish games 
 are better demonstrations of the game's strengths and are much more fun than the single-player 
 campaign.   

  Other than a few specific problems, O. R. B. is a well-made game. It lacks inspiration, but it's 
 a good enough real-time strategy game for those who are tired of being confined to terra firma. 
    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (3 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: MixtaMastaMan
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 3, 2006 8:59 pm PT
Review:  I first got this game probably over 4 years ago sooo 2002?, and it was pretty cheap. I had just 
 gotten my new computer and was looking for something to play, i probably had 56K at the time so 
 any multiplayer besides starcraft was out. Anywho, i first played it, the loading time was unbearable, 
 that graphics were... mmmm so so, and i the game was just way too complex. over the years... ive 
 forgotten about it, but a few months ago for reasons unknown i started playing it again. The new 
 patches greatly improve the loading time, bugs and AI. The game still isnt as pretty as some of 
 the newer space games but that keeps you focused on action and not on the scenery. Besides, there 
 havent been many space RTS's worth playing in quite some time. To help with the complexety I eliminated 
 the whole base building scene, lowered the maximum ship limit to 15 and renacted my favorite scenes 
 from Star Lancer. Plus the soundtrack is fun to steal and listen while playing other games with 
 a less inspiering score. The games has plenty of upgrades, ships and weapons. Its not a groundbrealing 
 game but it gets the job done.
  
  P. S.
  I advise homeworld 2 as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DragonKiller17
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 14, 2005 1:10 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game for ten dollars at future shop, and even at that price I think its awful. Like 
 come on, the story line was completely lame, nobady in their right mind would like a storyline 
 like that. Boring and confusing. It goes something like this. Two civilizations. The first one 
 goes out to destroy this bandit band of out casts. They destroy them, find this ring, them meet 
 up with the other civilization. At this point, i don't know if the two races know each other, because 
 the first one thought that the second one was the great betrayer, and attacked them, then something 
 else happened, like another enemy popped up destroying both of them. Oh My God.
  
  It was completely boring I could get myself to play the second half of the game. Complete was of 
 time. The graphics were okay for space combat, although i don't quite remember, but i think that 
 one of the space warships were half the size of a planet on one of the maps. 
  
  The gamplay was completely awful, confusing way of fighting, thank god u can make the ships attack 
 automatically. Plus the way to gather resources takes hours. And you will brely get any out of 
 it. So there's an asteroid that has 8000 ru, u build a resource base (1000ru) and u build another 
 transporter thingy, (500ru) and that's only 6500 rus left. Many of the research costs that much.
 
  
  The only thing I like about the game was being able to get your capital ships to kamakazie into 
 our opponents mothership. And the huge battles that can take place.
  
  My opinion: DO NOT UNDER ANY CIRCUMSTANCES BUY THIS GAME, YOU WILL BE SORRY IF YOU DO! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Everclearules
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 28, 2005 10:01 pm PT
Review:  O. R. B. is a Real-Time Strategy set in space. This concept and it's implementation is much similar 
 to another PC game, Homeworld. Unfortunantly O. R. B. does differs from Homeworld on the most important 
 level, entertainment. While many of the concepts are well done the game still remains a bore all 
 the way through. 
  
  The first thing you notice in any game is the graphics, and luckily for O. R. B., those graphics 
 are fairly good. Everything is well done, especially the space backgrounds that really make you 
 look off and stare in wonder. That said, even the graphics are a bit plain and get rather boring 
 after only a few games of play. Sound, as with the rest of the game, has the same problem. 
  
  On to more important things, the gameplay. In short, it leaves much to be desired. This is 
 your basic Real-Time strategy in the truest sense of the word. Everything is as simple as you can 
 get. To mine, you buid a mine on an asteroid and send carriers to bring back minearls. Upgrading 
 is just spending minerals to upgrade one of eight different technologies, which in turn allow you 
 to build more attacking ships or allow those ships to do more damage. That's the game. Mine minerals, 
 upgrade ships, attack. 
  
  Add to that the fact it takes forever for your fighters to get anywhere on the map, and far too 
 few minerals to support you through the game. In the end you'll spend half of the game (literally) 
 chasing enemies remaining ships around the map. 
  
  After only one or two games, O. R. B gets very repetitve and very boring. There's a reason most strategies 
 now adays add much more to their game, and that's to make them entertaining. O. R. B. does not and 
 leaves much to be desired. Homeworld, though similar in concept, does a much better job of being 
 entertaining and I would definintly recommend that over O. R. B. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
