-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Obscure
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/obscure/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Perfectly copies the survival horror formula, if you're into old-school gaming.
 Stylish visuals with fantastic shadow effects.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 So derivative of the original Resident Evil that you'll swear that it's 1996.
 Annoying characterizations and voice-acting.
 Co-op is a great idea, but it isn't much use without LAN or Internet support .
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr 19, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.1
Critic Score: 6.5, 19 Review (s)
User Score: 7.8, 608 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: DreamCatcher Interactive
Developer: Hydravision
Genre: Horror Action Adventure
Date:     Apr 6, 2005
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Judging by Obscure, a survival-horror throwback best described as Resident Evil in a high school, 
 French developer Hydravision is stuck in 1996. 

  While the Resident Evil series might have overstayed its welcome, you can give Capcom credit for 
 finally realizing that enough was enough. The developer ditched the franchise's tired survival-horror 
 conventions, said goodbye to Raccoon City, and wound up with one of the best games so far this 
 year in Resident Evil 4. This groundbreaking release set a new standard in action-horror, mirroring 
 the accomplishment registered by its classic predecessor nine years ago. Some people, however, 
 aren't getting the hint that gaming has moved on. Judging by Obscure, a survival-horror throwback 
 best described as Resident Evil in a high school, French developer Hydravision is stuck in 1996. 
 While this textbook copy of the Capcom classic is a competent regurgitation of the genre's clichs, 
 your patience will be tested by dj vu from the moment that the first monster bursts out of the 
 walls.  

           Unlike Doom 3, here's a game that knows what to do with duct tape and a gun.     

 
  If you've ever played a survival-horror game, you've seen all of this stuff before. The only addition 
 to the mix is the Leafdale High School setting and a cast of five teen protagonists who are grungy 
 versions of the kids from  The OC . Hydravision has designed Obscure as a veritable reproduction 
 of the Resident Evil series, including a "greatest hits" package of story, atmosphere, and even 
 architecture (hmm, we've seen that double-staircase foyer before) . The story, however, is more 
 of a ripoff of Robert Rodriguez's 1998 high-school horror flick, The Faculty, with tentacled monstrosities 
 reminiscent of H. P. Lovecraft's nightmarish creations and mutated human zombies replacing the movie's 
 aliens.  

  At any rate, these creatures smash through walls and doors just like similar beasties did way back 
 when. Gameplay is structured around scrounging through rooms for items that can be combined into 
 tools and weapons, collecting keys, pushing bookshelves, and saving progress with collectible CDs 
 (space-age technology compared to Resident Evil's typewriter ribbons) . You can reach the ending 
 in six or seven hours, depending on your survival-horror experience. That experience really comes 
 in handy, too, as some situations here precisely mimic those found in earlier Capcom games. A room 
 with a missing lever and sliding shelves is a near-perfect copy of a chamber that puzzled Leon 
 S. Kennedy in Resident Evil 2. Well, at least Hydravision seems to have done its homework.  

  A few interesting concepts liven up the same old, same old. Light is a weapon almost as potent 
 as pistols and aluminum baseball bats. Turn a flashlight on high-beam or smash away boards covering 
 windows and you can drive back or even kill creatures. Duct tape a flashlight to a pistol and you've 
 got a great one-two punch for dealing with many of the game's nasties.  

  Also, you work in a two-person team for the most part, and can give orders to your buddy, switch 
 between the duo on the fly, or head back to a gathering area to pick and choose a pair from all 
 five members of your group. This sometimes comes in handy, as you need to team up to kill many 
 monsters, and each kid in the Scooby Gang has a special attribute. Josh, for instance, is an investigative 
 reporter with the school paper, so he can sniff out clues and let you know if there's anything 
 else to be done in a room or hallway. Stan is tops at forcing locks, making him a wise choice when 
 it comes to breaking into a room. Kenny can run and punch like the varsity athlete that he is. 
 Smart Shannon provides tips on current puzzles. And Ashley can rapid-fire a pistol.  

  None of these abilities is generally needed, though. Sure, Stan is more efficient at breaking locks 
 than Josh, but the latter can still get the job done given an extra few seconds. Shannon's skill 
 more or less duplicates that of Josh, and since the game isn't going to hurt your brain anyways, 
 you don't need their tips to solve puzzles. Only Kenny and Ashley are truly useful, because of 
 their fighting talents. And even those two aren't indispensable, since -- just like in all good teen 
 horror movies -- anyone can die at any time, and you can complete the game even if some of your pals 
 bite the dust.  

  At times, you'll be tempted to thin out the ranks yourself. Each member of the gang is an irritating 
 teen stereotype. Kenny's the jock. Josh's the adventurous nerd who always gets the girl in John 
 Hughes movies. Ashley's the pretty, snotty cheerleader. Shannon's the bookish one who nobody notices 
 is really sexy. Stan's the stoner, who calls everyone "dawg" and describes things he doesn't like 
 as "whack." After a couple of hours of listening to this crew, you'll find yourself rooting for 
 the monsters.  

  Co-op play is a great idea poorly realized. There is no LAN or Net support, so players have to 
 play side by side on the same machine. Gamepads are supported, but not mice, an omission that leaves 
 one player stuck with the clunky yet serviceable keyboard. And the camera sticks with the lead 
 player at all times, forcing the second player to trail closely behind or get lost. Co-op play 
 betrays Obscure's PlayStation 2 and Xbox origins. Clearly, the mode of play has just been tossed 
 into the PC version with no real concern for how to properly enjoy it on that platform.  

          One of the side benefits to exploring an evil-infested high school with a couple of hot 
 teen girls.     

  More care has been taken with the translation from console to PC where visuals are concerned. For 
 a console port, this is a great-looking game. Leafdale may look more like a run-down hospital or 
 mental asylum than a functioning high school, but it serves its spooky purposes nicely. Much of 
 the furniture and assorted rubbish can be moved, too, so you're not adventuring in front of static 
 2D backdrops. Animations are very well done, particularly when characters are swinging baseball 
 bats or metal pipes in fight sequences. Moving shadows add eerie possibilities to every corridor, 
 giving you the impression that something's always about to leap from a nearby door or locker. The 
 tense atmosphere is further enhanced with distant roars, banging noises that can't be explained, 
 and a hair-raising music soundtrack that features Latin chanting and a title track by Sum 41 (not 
 nearly as scary, unless you're creeped out by boy-band metal) .  

  In the end, Obscure lives up to its name. It's competent enough as far as blatant ripoffs of the 
 great-granddaddy of survival horror go, but so much has been cobbled together that the game has 
 no distinct identity of its own.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (22 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: om3ga_storm
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 30, 2008 7:36 am PT
Review:  So a friend gave this game to me (my gaming has been influenced a lot by friends i must say) but 
 let's get to the point straight away. 
  
  The story starts out promising. This is mostly a horror Third person action game, and as one of 
 several teenagers you must discover the secrets of the school they go to. Each one has something 
 unique to offer and you only have 2 at a time so that part of the gameplay is pretty interesting. 
 
  
  The setting is probably the strongest aspect of the game. The school layout is realistic and the 
 details are eye catching. 
  
  The horror element is somewhat lacking however. There aren't a variety of monsters and while they 
 may scare a 5-year old, they really aren't that frightening. 
  
  The action is much like a typical console third person action game. To kill monsters you use guns 
 to baseball bats. However there is no crosshair and the camera does not rotate around the character 
 most of the time which can get frustrating. Basically when you use guns it aims automatically which 
 I guess implies combat is not a strength of this game. The saving is also limited (you pick up 
 disks throughout the game which you use to save but once you do so it's used up) which is always 
 a negative in my book.
  
  Overall though, it's a good attempt at a horror game I suppose. The creepy atmosphere was what 
 really allowed me to enjoy this game somewhat, but everything else including combat and story was 
 pretty average. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snofelj
Rating: 6.6
Date: Aug 9, 2007 4:18 am PT
Review:  Obscure Review
  
  The survival-horror gaming genre (in my opinion) really started with the Resident Evil series. 
 Being scared to death while playing a game was completely new to me and I became hooked right away. 
 Since the first Resident Evil game there have been countless clones released. Some good, some not 
 so good and others that are just Ok. Obscure falls into the latter category by offering a modern 
 twist to the survival horror genre: the teen horror flick. Think of Obscure as the ultimate culmination 
 of the movies Scream, I Know What You Did Last Summer and the Resident Evil series.
  
  The story behind Obscure revolves around the high school of Leafmore. Strange and unusual events 
 have been reported happening at the school. There have even been reports of students disappearing 
 at the school. Five friends decide to figure out what is happening at the school and lock themselves 
 in the school after classes are over. Sounds just like a script from a recent teen horror flick, 
 doesnt it?
  
  http://www. najdi. si/redirect/multimedia. jsp? redirect=http%3A%2F%2Fwww. freewebs. com%2Fzigagames%2FObscure. jpg&amp; resulturl=http%3A%2F%2Fwww. freewebs. com%2Fzigagames%2FObscure. jpg&amp; refurl=http%3A%2F%2Fwww. freewebs. com%2Fzigagames%2Fobscure. htm&amp; q=Obscure&amp; contenttype=image%2Fjpeg
 
  
  The ability to play different characters in the game is where Obscure succeeds at being different 
 than other survival-horror games. Usually survival-horror games center on just one character and 
 you controlling that one character. But Obscure does it a little different. During the game you 
 can have at least two characters under your control at all times. Each of the five characters in 
 the game has their own unique abilities that make them useful during particular areas. At anytime 
 during the game you can change between the five students, or at least the ones that are still alive. 
 Which brings up the next interesting part of Obscure - the survival aspect of the game. The game 
 starts off with five characters but you probably wont finish the game with all five of the characters 
 still alive. In fact, the game doesnt end if one of the characters die, the game will keep going 
 until all five of the characters die. Early on in the game Obscure made it feel as if I was playing/watching 
 a modern teen/horror film when one of my characters died. For example, if youve watched Scream 
 then you know that someone has to die during the movie. It wouldnt be a horror flick without it 
 happening. Obscure is the same way, it always seems as if someone is going to die, but the game 
 doesnt end. When one of your characters dies it feels as if its part of the plot, but its not. 
 You control the plot because youre in control of the characters. Unlike other games where you 
 try to survive with just one character, in this one youre trying to keep everyone alive. One of 
 the remaining characters in the game can pick up and use the items of their fallen friend.
  
  While the idea of having more than one character to complete the game is an interesting idea, 
 unfortunately the controls make it a harder job than necessary. The controls lack any support for 
 the mouse. Its been a long time since Ive played a game that wouldnt let me control something 
 in a game with the mouse. Even the menu options in the game lack mouse support. Moving your character 
 is done with the A, W, S, and D keys while other keys controls functions such as firing your 
 weapons and accessing your inventory. Since the game is presented in a third-person perspective 
 with a static camera angle I guess there wasnt a need to support movement with both the keyboard 
 and mouse. The characters had an auto aim feature when using guns that would hit a creature most 
 of the time. But during close combat the keyboard only controls really limited how fast and responsive 
 I could move my character. I died on several occasions because I couldnt respond fast enough to 
 an attacking creature. Controlling the other character during exploration and combat was limited 
 to a few commands you can give to the other character. You can ask for help, tell the other character 
 to follow you (or stay put) and ask to swap out weapons. But at anytime you can press the F key 
 to change characters. The other character is now under your control while the computer now controls 
 your former character. Its an interesting idea that was meant to be used by the second player. 
 Two people can play the game at the same time with both gamers controlling a different character 
 in the game. But since the game lacks mouse support its hard to get a comfortable setting with 
 two people using the same keyboard.
  
  Another interesting option in the game was item combination feature. You can select to combine 
 different items together so you have more functionality from the items. This was really put into 
 effect when you combine a flash light and a handgun. Since most of the creatures in the game are 
 sensitive to light having a light on your gun made things a little easier. I would have been nice 
 to seen this feature fleshed out some more instead of just focusing on the guns.
  
  The graphics have a nice overall tone to them and set a nice atmosphere for the game. Most of the 
 locations in the game are full of some nice details and textures that make you believe this school 
 has been around for decades. The overall look of the school (inside and out) looks very glum and 
 run down. The graphics for the characters look good but dont match the detail of the backgrounds. 
 The camera angle is presented in a static over-the-top/third-person perspective. Fortunately you 
 wont run into a problem with being hit by a creature and the camera angle changing suddenly. You 
 cant see everything in a room but the camera will follow as you move. Its just the same angle 
 for that particular area/room that you can not change. Overall, Obscure is a decent game for the 
 survival-horror genre. The problems that plagued survival horror in the past havent been corrected. 
 You still have to solve puzzles, you still have to back track in the game and you will still face 
 creatures that are harder than they should be. But for fans of the survival-horror genre, or at 
 least of teen/horror films, Obscure will provide enough frights and chills to keep you playing. 
 I was startled more than a few times by the game even though I knew what was going to happen since 
 Ive seen it a few times before in other games. Review Scoring Details for Obscure Gameplay 6.5
 
  The core gameplay hasnt been changed with Obscure from other survival-horror games. You find 
 a room, you discover items, you find another room, and you use recently discovered item to find 
 another item or access a different room. This has been done before but the story line will keep 
 you wanting to discover more in the game. Graphics 7.0
  The background graphics and overall look of the school was nicely done. It reminded me of being 
 in high school again and it reminded me of watching a horror film. The graphics were dark but not 
 too dark that you were completely lost. The character graphics in the game just didnt match the 
 detail of the characters during the cutscenes. The static camera angle is really something that 
 I wish would disappear in survival horror games.
  
  Sound 7.0
  The sound effects in the game really help set the mood of the game. While I was playing the game 
 I thought there was some strange noises going on outside of my room. But all of the noises I heard 
 were coming from the game. The music was kept to a minimum since the sound effects and background 
 noises took over. After a while, though, the sound effects and noises became repetitive with the 
 same noises being heard almost everywhere I went.
  
  Difficulty Medium/Hard
  The game offers two difficulty settings to start off with, easy and normal. Gamers that are new 
 to the survival-horror genre will probably find the difficulty a little frustrating. The key is 
 remembering that you dont have to fight all of the enemies all of the time. Remember the light 
 is a powerful ally in this game. Some of the puzzles can be a little tricky and you will probably 
 find yourself repeating certain sections a few times before moving on.
  
  Concept 7.0
  The idea of controlling more than one character in a survival-horror game isnt new, but the way 
 Obscure does it is interesting. Being able to control up to five different characters during the 
 game and switching between the characters is a nice feature in the game. But having the characters 
 die one-by-one and still being able to play the game is a real salute to classic teen-horror films. 
 If only you had more ability to control the second character during the game instead of issuing 
 a few commands.
  
  Multiplayer 6.0
  The ability to have another gamer playing the game with you at the same time is a nice feature. 
 Trying to find space on a single keyboard isnt an easy choice though. Not having an online multiplayer 
 or even a LAN multiplayer option just doesnt seem right in todays gaming market.
  
  Overall 6.7
  Obscure is a decent, entertaining and at time frightening survival-horror game. 
 It plays out very similar to the teen-horror films it is based upon. The multiple character option 
 is a unique idea and the overall look of the game is dark and moody. But the same tired cliches 
 of past survival-horror games pop up all the time during the game. The story line is interesting 
 but its not something that you havent seen in a horror film already. Obscure will be more than 
 enough for gamers looking for their next scare, but will leave other gamers looking for more.
 
  
  By snofelj 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrclean2988
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 10, 2007 3:32 pm PT
Review:  Obscure is, hands down, the best survival horror game I've played, just barely passing Silent Hill 
 2. It's spooky atmosphere, great story and solid game play made it a classic in its own right. 
 If it weren't for a few mess-ups, this would have been perfection in game form.
  
  I saw three main problems:
  1. The voice-acting and script: Atrocious. Seriously, who says looks 
 like we got ourselves into a sticky situation anymore? Come on. The emotions were wrong in many 
 lines or just lacking all together. This could have used some more attention to the writing.
  
  2. The ending: I'm not going to ruin it for those who haven't played, but What the hell was 
 that? Cool twist at the end and all, but ruined by the cinematic at the very end. Whatever, at 
 least we're getting the sequel soon.
  
  3. And this was only a minor beef; bugs. The game crashed on me a few times, which was irritating, 
 but it was only a couple times, and never that big a deal.
  
  In closing, this game rocks. You should be able to find it for cheap in most stores, or ebay it. 
 But find this game and play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: braa_ksma
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 30, 2007 3:17 pm PT
Review:  Obscure. I saw it sitting on the shelf, and I decided it looked alright. So I bought it. Good choice! 
 I never see a fresh face to the survival-horror genre. All I really see are things like, Resident 
 Evil, and Silent Hill. And those games seemed fairly boring. Mainly puzzles, but they're still 
 good. Well, Obscure is like your average horror movie, and SO much more! Stereotypes, a good story, 
 and... and... ZOMBIES!!! This is like, THE best, after Dead Rising, only because it was too short! 
 Well, I thought so. Because I enjoyed it so much. I really enjoyed it because you could SWITCH 
 characters, and let them get killed at ANY time, with letting the game progress without a Game 
 Over , so you're given a few chances. This is MOST DEFINITELY one for the books. You don't see 
 it as much as we all should in stores, but if you do... BUY IT. If you don't... EBAY. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MajinBuXL
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 18, 2007 10:09 pm PT
Review:  If you are reading this, you problaby are thinking about getting this game, or at least giving 
 it a try. Well, I think you should. If you loved those old school games like Resident Evil or Silent 
 Hill, you're going to love this one.
  
  It's actually quite a great balance of puzzle solving, action and scary stuff. I think gamespot 
 judged way too harshly to give it only a 6. It deserve way more than that. Trust me on that, I've 
 seen games that should get a 6 and this is defenetly not one of them.
  
  If you like searching around scary places and shooting things along the way, this is the game for 
 you. Don't be mislead though, It's not a shoot em up kind of game, there are a variety of weapons 
 to use but not a whole lot of ammo to spare, so you might actually try to use some strategy in 
 your wondering around, and you won't find a monster around every corner. Only in the very scary 
 and necessary places.
  
  All in all i think the game was fun, I'm actually looking forward to the sequel. The only two things 
 about this title that I didn't like were the abrupt introduction and all the crashes i experienced 
 while playing.
  
  The reason why I'm saying it starts abruptly is because you straight off the bat find a gun and 
 start shooting monsters in your school's basement like you've known no other as soon as the game 
 starts. I mean come on. Thats a little too hardcore, even for a highschool horror right? Luckily 
 thats only the intro, and you won't find a gun until later in the game.
  
  Last, the crashes. For some reason while i was running this game it would stop loading while moving 
 between areas. I tried downloading the current 1.1 patch but it didn't fix anything. Maybe a new 
 patch will in the future, who knows. It's not a really bad problem though, its tolerable enough.
 
  
  Anyway, defenetly a solid title. Worth your attention. Enjoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bilal1400
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 26, 2007 8:12 am PT
Review:  ya i like that chap , espesially its enviorment are mind blowing. its game ply is quite simple 
 but i like it bcuz of horror element in it. the charecters are also very attaractive and impressive. 
 i have done a lot of effort to end this and i like that. this game may lok like resident evil type 
 but i like this bcuz resident evil is also my favourate game although i complete it 98 % the other 
 part i left dosent mean i can not end it _ the reason is i cannot find time. this game also include 
 the element of group playing you have five characters each have different property to execute each 
 has different characteristics. through out the game i played with all characters and also i played 
 with group of two characters, this make the game play quite interesting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ninjagaijin10k
Rating: 7.2
Date: Dec 24, 2006 7:40 pm PT
Review:  I can't think of any other way to describe this. It's a teen summer horror flick made into a game. 
 I hate those movies, and I should hate this game.
  
  I don't hate it though. I don't really LIKE it, but it wasn't bad. I think I found it for less 
 than five bucks somewhere and tried it. It was short and relatively lame. But it wasn't the total 
 suck.
  
  For cheap thrills, give it a crack. Don't expect much. If you're into survival horror games or 
 just like horror games, go ahead and add it to your collection.
  
  If you're into really good games and have time to kill between said good games, try it if you can 
 find it cheap.
  
  If you're only into playing great games, don't bother, this is far from it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bulldawg8879
Rating: 7.6
Date: Oct 15, 2006 4:39 am PT
Review:  Make no mistake about it, this is what the term average was meant for. The game is fun and playable 
 but most everything is pretty predictable and cliched. You could problary think of the movie the 
 Faculty and the Resident evil game being mixed to get an idea of it The game is about a group of 
 4 highschool students who after there friend, goes missing they stay at the school after its closed 
 to look for him. They find him eventually which makes 5 playable characters. The story is basically 
 about the teachers and principle conducting scientific experiments which create the monsters, but 
 why would a high school be doing scientific experiments!? The gameplay is alright and pretty enjoyable 
 but the combat is pretty bad. Most of the time you can enter a room and press the ready weapon 
 button and fire and kill everything in the room without even seeing the enemy. The game has a fair 
 amount of pretty easy puzzles which shouldnt give anyone too much of a headache. Out of the 5 characters 
 in the game the only ones I used through the whole game were Josh, who could detect if any items 
 are left in the room and the skater guy who can pick locks which was needed in some areas. The 
 others just sat around the checkpoint waiting.
  
  The graphics in the game are really quite good though, the character models and some of the monsters 
 look well designed. The enviroments are great, with it actually feeling like an abandoned school. 
 You can travel to any of the areas in the school whenever you want as well adding the feeling of 
 being in a place in time somewhat. The sound effects in the game are not very good, and at times 
 the sound of the weapons fireing or footsteps would cut out so i would have to quit the game to 
 get the sound back on. The voice acting is alright i guess but it could be alot better. I did not 
 like the choice of music to have a sum 41 song playing at the beginning cutscene. That kindof turned 
 me off to the game at first.
  
  Overall I did have fun playing the game but its just not a great game but for 10 dollars i wasnt 
 really expecting it to be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: abdulrahiem
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 7, 2006 4:08 pm PT
Review:  The game play is very good. graphics wili make you loving it. and the story will make you fell in 
 love with it. struggles in obs cure is very attractive in compare with other games in its genere.
 
  the cutscenes selected very amazing to amplify your feeling and fear.
  when your cahacters or one of the students or members from the school die you will suffer and absoloutly 
 reload the game because of your feeling for the school. the story of the game may be occur for every 
 one who is in the school.
  in summary a very good experiment and inceredible faering for the lovers of dramatic adventure
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: akhorahill
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 9, 2006 9:41 am PT
Review:  Obscure is a light and fast paced survival horror game with some nice moments. Though faithful 
 to most of the core game play mechanics of survival horror such as limited ammo, puzzle solving 
 and backtracking, Obscure takes a lighter approach on character development and manages to add 
 a few unique twists to multiplayer.
  
  One important thing to be noticed in Obscure is that its not meant to be a serious and strong 
 emotional game with sad stories and such. It takes the teen-slasher approach to horror, focusing 
 more on high adrenaline scares than on psychological subtle fear.
  
  Obscure allows you to control up to 2 from 5 teenagers trapped in a school with a dark past. The 
 prologue introduces some of the games main mechanics and gives you some background on the schools 
 dark horrors. When the actual storyline starts, you already know what awaits the innocent teenagers.
 
  
  The school itself is very detailed and brooding. The library and the parking lot are awfully familiar 
 to me and the whole place feels like a real school. Ok, its a bit too shaggy and dark but what 
 would you expect in a horror game? Light effects are more detailed than the rest but its surely 
 because light plays in important role against the creatures that lurk in your school.
  
  The characters are stereotypical teenagers but well detailed models. They all possess some unique 
 ability that will help you throughout the game. One of em can find any hidden items in a given 
 room, the other is the fighter and one actually offers advice on how to proceed in game etc. Those 
 are minor tweaks and not necessary for any of the game puzzles, Id suggest you pick up the character 
 you like most in terms of appearance and move on.
  
  All teenagers move fast through the rooms and actually stumble upon every piece of furniture, well, 
 at least I did, the fixed camera was not well placed in some of the scenarios and that prevented 
 me from better exploring a given room or finding an item.
  
  I liked most of the puzzles. Theyre not so simple and not mind-bending as well. A nice feature 
 is that your character marks the puzzle on the map with a question mark until you can come up with 
 a solution to it.
  
  Another nice touch on the game is light. Youll soon discover that light can affect monsters in 
 this game so there are a few situations where the scenario plays an important role in the battle. 
 Not to spoil anyones fun, lemme just say that the game loses much once night draws in.
  
  During the game, you can select up to 2 characters from your team of 5 to explore the school. If 
 you wish, you can invite a friend to control the second character. What surprised me most in Obscure 
 is that all this simplicity in character development is intentional because every character is 
 expandable. I was ambushed in one of the rooms by a large number of monsters and one of my characters 
 died. I expect the game over screen but the game went on! I went back and picked up another partner 
  the game moved on! Further down the road I lost yet another character to an instant death scene 
 and the final boss made one extra victim. So only 2 out of 5 characters survived the ordeal.
  
  Instead of focusing on a dark past or emotional background, Obscure creates a horror situation 
 for 5 kids to survive. Thats the most distinct feature in Obscure, its meant to be taken lightly.
 
  
  Id say Obscure succeeded in creating a nice background with very good but sometimes misplaced 
 music. The game is maybe a tad too fast and characters are a bit too, whoever intentional, simplistic. 
 Their reaction to chaos and fear is the same to mine when I find out theres no coffee left. 
 
  
  Not everything is goofy in Obscure, there are some nice pictures, diaries and one particular notebook 
 you find at the end of the game that summarizes the whole background in a nice movie, there are 
 some good boss fights as well (the final boss is a very interesting enemy in both design and fighting 
 AI) and some nice touches here and there. Id say its good enough for a first try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djnet
Rating: 6.2
Date: Apr 18, 2006 3:27 pm PT
Review:  None of these abilities is generally needed, though. Sure, Stan is more efficient at breaking locks 
 than Josh, but the latter can still get the job done given an extra few seconds. Shannon's skill 
 more or less duplicates that of Josh, and since the game isn't going to hurt your brain anyways, 
 you don't need their tips to solve puzzles. Only Kenny and Ashley are truly useful, because of 
 their fighting talents. And even those two aren't indispensable, since -- just like in all good teen 
 horror movies -- anyone can die at any time, and you can complete the game even if some of your pals 
 bite the dust. 
  At times, you'll be tempted to thin out the ranks yourself. Each member of the gang is an irritating 
 teen stereotype. Kenny's the jock. Josh's the adventurous nerd who always gets the girl in John 
 Hughes movies. Ashley's the pretty, snotty cheerleader. Shannon's the bookish one who nobody notices 
 is really sexy. Stan's the stoner, who calls everyone "dawg" and describes things he doesn't like 
 as "whack." After a couple of hours of listening to this crew, you'll find yourself rooting for 
 the monsters.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: leeveeu
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 19, 2006 11:28 pm PT
Review:  Well, at first, I was not very eager to play this game, because I've only heard mixed reactions. 
 But, I played it though and man, was it a surprise. The graphics are very good and run smoothly 
 without needing exceptionally specs (I'm talking about the PC version) . The music is really, really 
 godd and there's this neat option to listen to the music as tracks, from the game menu. The quests 
 are not very difficult, but I guess that's ok for this type of game. 
  What you have to get used to are the controls (it seems like they were made for the console versions 
 of the game) , but after you get the hang of it it's really not that bad.
  I definitely recommend this game to anyone that likes a little horror game that excels in music 
 and graphics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: suzabbe
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 7, 2006 9:41 am PT
Review:  The term Check your bargain bin never meant so much as with Obscure. This survival horror title 
 was released in 2005 but has the look and feel of an old-school survival classic like Resident 
 Evil. The graphics are quite outdated, at times reminding me of System Shock, and the voice acting 
 is almost sad its so terrible; yet this game is on my list of good horror titles. 
  
  The highlights of the game are the interesting weapons, the ability to combine items, a decent 
 storyline and the array of characters you control two at a time. An enjoyable feature that most 
 of the weapons in the game have is some sort of light source that damages enemies. If you time 
 your moves correctly you can easily get through areas on the map without actually touching an enemy 
 or using a bullet, while destroying the enemy at the same time. As in most horror titles enemies 
 grow and thrive in the darkness and you, the unwilling protagonist, are forced to enter dark corridors 
 and scarcely lit maps to maneuver your way out of trouble and into the light per say. Obscure 
 takes that idea quite literally. Light is your most powerful and effective weapon, combining that 
 with a few bullets makes getting through most levels a breeze. The enemies are slow moving and 
 slow witted at times sending a noisy cloud of darkness that grows like some evil bacteria across 
 the map towards you as ample warning that danger is approaching.
  
  The gameplay is pretty straight-forward. You play as two of the characters in almost every level, 
 with the exception of a few places where you play only as one, cleansing the map of wickedness 
 as you make your way through a high-school and find a lost friend meanwhile discovering horrific 
 secrets behind some of the faculty youve come to know over the years. (In the GameSpot review 
 Obscure was compared to the film The Faculty and in many ways that comparison is dead on.) At 
 times the AI can get a bit annoying, characters not following you fast enough or moving in the 
 line of fire or the always popular just standing there and getting killed, but throughout the majority 
 of the game it feels like you are playing the game with another person. A few times the AI actually 
 fights off the enemy while you solve puzzles, as amazing as that sounds, it does actually work 
 in places.
  
  The characters are extremes on stereotypes (the skater kid, the ditzy blonde, the audio/visual 
 guy etc) and the dialogue is exceptionally bland and trite throughout the game. The same expressions 
 are used over and over by each character to the point of wanting to mute the game. The enemies 
 are well-crafted for their gory genre, but are few and far between; most are far too easy to kill 
 to even make mention of them. 
  
  Although Obscure isnt the next generation of survival horror games or even lives up to the ones 
 of yesteryear, it does have its good points. In general the game is entertaining, I found myself 
 laughing at the bad dialogue. There are some tense moments created by lighting and the feeling 
 of being trapped in certain areas which always add to a horror titles value but mostly playing 
 as multiple characters and using light as a weapon saved Obscure from falling so far off the radar 
 that it was overlooked. Its certainly worth a rental for a quick game to finish in a night or 
 two or pick it up from a bargain bin; youll be amused for the most part.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Immortal_Zarok
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 26, 2006 9:41 pm PT
Review:  After completing obscure I found the game not only needs a sequel but I would be very disappointed 
 if they didn't they game had everything that makes a good horror game and more they style they 
 feel for the game is good it's just one of those games you have to try for yourself to really know 
 how good it is while some people may just see this as another simple horror game it has so much 
 to it not just the creepy monsters or they scary scenes in darkness where monsters lurk in the 
 shadows or just about the creepy storyline but the very game just playing it I know it is a great 
 game good job Hydravision and good luck on making a sequel cause I hope their will be another game 
 like this one out soon 
::::::

::::::
UserName: foxer_2005
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 27, 2006 2:15 pm PT
Review:  This Game Deserve to be great ...
  I mean came-on, this game look really great, don't you think so, well if other Users rate this 
 game low then it doesn't mean that this game is really bad. if you just try it, then you will understand.
 
  
  I spent 5hours and 50 minutes playing it and i never get bored from it, Ok here i will explain 
 why?
  
  This game has a really great Sound effects, the background sound of the game makes you shiver, 
 and wonder whats will going on and be ready to attack Monsters and creatures that appear suddenly, 
 coming through walls and doors that makes you jumpy "sounds are really usefull".
  
  I will go deep into the game, and explain for you the game play. In this game you will stay in 
 the University searching into the rooms and outside the park for Clues"missing students", Items 
 that are useful to try, such as Tape that combines a flash light and a Gun, or Keys helping you 
 to open Locked doors, CDs used to save your progress, also you can use Drinks to restore your Health, 
 Pushing Book Shelves and trails. Finding different. kind of weapons for, example using a bat instead 
 of the Gun or an Iron Pipe, "The same as Silent Hill". But silent hill is not the same as Obscure. 
 Yea Obscure is totally different, two players can play this game and each one of them have their 
 own weapons. Well Flash Light is also a copy from Silent Hill but its also completely different 
 from the Obscure flash Light, if am not mistaken in silent hill you cannot combine the Light with 
 the gun. as i told you before you can work in team, choose your buddy, change the gathering and 
 more, from switching between the two if you are playing alone. BTW each student has his own ability.
 
  
  Puzzles in this game are easy to be solved, such as the MAP\Painting or the Missing fuse, also 
 the Code to the safe, its really easy, even if you are stuck in the game, bring Ashley with you, 
 she will help.
  
  About the Graphics. There is no problem with it, The Monsters look real, well i will say it looks 
 like Silent Hill 2 graphics. The building is huge from the outside like you will get lost, but 
 inside it was small, there was not enough classrooms, How come a Big school don't have enough Classrooms, 
 I've also noticed a real small mistake in this game, where the room when Josh said it's night-time 
 and into the next room there was a light looks like a Sunbeam, """""""" I don't know if i am wrong 
 or right """""". The map looked exactly like Silent hill 2, whenever he enters a room he starts 
 marking with his pen, but in Obscure, there was no Pen :P .:?
  
  After all the game is Good not Super as Resident Evil or Silent Hill 2\3\4
  
  What makes me 
 more like it is:
  that there is
  Unlockable Features, from Music, Trailers, New Costume, Weapons and Gallery 1\2.
  
  Thats all 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cubesmind
Rating: 6.2
Date: Jan 21, 2006 1:29 pm PT
Review:  
  They got me again. This game does not contain the cooperative mode that I pictured. My score would 
 have been much higher if I didn't have to be in the same room as my friend was. They need to make 
 a game that can do that. Also no network play, so if you are playing this on the computer this 
 means same keyboard or buy another game pad.
  
  Overall the game isn't too bad. Of course the first time I stepped into that main room of the school 
 my immediate thought was "Resident Evil". My advice is that if you know someone that has never 
 played a "Resident Evil" style game and they want to try one out this is a good stepping stone.
 
  
  The puzzles are easy. I really mean easy, they tell you exactly what is needed to be done, and 
 on top of that they show exactly where to do the things on the map. So it's impossible to get lost, 
 on the plus side to that you can put the game down and pick it up without ever forgetting what 
 you were doing.
  
  The characters. I did like the switching between characters I thought it was a pretty neat concept, 
 but I wish that their was actually a real use for some of the other characters. It ended up that 
 the only real reason that I switched between characters was cause I got tired of hearing the same 
 voices over and over again. The "special abilities" that each character is supposed to have really 
 aren't that great. 
  Josh, was the only one that seemed to come in handy, because it made searching the rooms really 
 easy. 
  Kenny wasn't too bad either if I was low on ammo and just needed to run past some guys to get to 
 the next area.
  Stan was pointless, because I'm not going to try and unlock a door when I'm getting attacked.
 
  Ashley, well I didn't really get to use her too much cause I accidentally killed her off in the 
 beginning, but I guess that shows you don't really need her to beat the game. But her death leads 
 me to the last character.
  Shannon, wow I misinterpreted what she could do! I thought she was going to be like a super healer 
 and would be able to bring Ashley back to life with a med kit... WRONG! 
  
  This leads me to two points: One, tell me some where in the manual or game that once someone dies 
 the never come back. Two, if someone is killed by a monster let me bring them back. Hell, I'll 
 pump them full of that crazy plant serum if it will bring them back to life. I mean I can always 
 look for an antidote later, but at least I will be able to use them some more.
  
  The game play was good, but the main problem I had was that when running in one direction if the 
 camera changed position then so would the way my character was running. It would have been easier 
 to control if the character would keep moving the direction he was initial going.
  
  I have to say that both the graphics and the sound did a good job of keeping me on the edge of 
 my seat. The flash light effect was a nice touch. The high and low beam worked as expected, and 
 I would really get freaked out in the darker areas when I was out of ammo because I would only 
 have a bat out, which made all the more freakier.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: shonkisdead
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 10, 2006 1:36 pm PT
Review:  This game is as good as Re series ... the mysteries and gameplay is interesting enough to keep 
 a gamer sticked to the pc. And yes the story is interesting too ! The superv thing is that it can 
 be played by 2 persons at a time ... resident evil fans imagine yourself playing with Claire while 
 Leon is helping you which is actually your friend ! so things are good enough to make this game 
 worth a try . If you people hate Resident Evil youll probably hate this game as well but if you 
 love it , then you are missing a lot ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: STEVSEN
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 16, 2005 3:51 am PT
Review:  The game got my full attention as i bought a Gaming Magazine and an DVD Disc ( that followed with 
 the magezine) containing a couple of demos including the pre-release demo of Obscure... 
  
  After playing the demo (that contains the first level) over, and over again i just couldn't wait 
 for the full release of the game itself... When it got released the only thing that was on my mind 
 was to go and pick it up at my local gaming store... I got positively surprised about the fact 
 that the game could be played in Co-op with a friend (as it opended up a whole new way to spend 
 a friday night) . 
  I decided that i would complete the game on my own first...
  
  I clearly remember the chilling feeling i got as i searched the school for the vanished friend 
 of theirs... 
  When playing the game, you feel lake your a part of the story, as you are allways being let in 
 on what the students get to know about the past of their school. You can surely say that the more 
 you play the game the better it gets.. I was surprised with the fact that it only took me 5 - 7 
 hours to complete it... I then decided to play it Co-op..
  This part of the game turned out to be even better then i had thougt i would be... Playing it with 
 a friend really affects the horror in the game.. When one gets a shock, the other one gets a bigger... 
 Hehe
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: britneyyy
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 15, 2005 6:29 am PT
Review:  Obscure is one of the best horror third person shooting games.
  There is variety of teenage players which you can choose by their special skills and find your 
 way to finish the game easier.
  You can change them any time in the game when you have problem to pass.
  you lead 2 of them any 
 time in game one player and one A. I. controlled.
  When you finish game you open the bonus level and weapon similar too Resident Evil series.
  I 
 have finish on easy level for 1 day of playing that is only bad score for this game but you open 
 the bonus and can play again maybe with different caracters. I finish the game 3 times .
  Game is woth playing. I finish the Cold Fear once and except better graphic effects that game isn't 
 addictive like this one.
  Also game has Music support by SPAN music alternative group and i downloaded the whole album.
 
  There are small number of different monsters but is enough to play.
  like Cold Fear this game has revolutionary camera view.
  That will be it for this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: foxthirteen
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 13, 2005 3:43 am PT
Review:  Can we say Resident Evil? Well not quite... nothing beats the classic king of Survival-Horror, 
 but if you're a fan of this genere, i recommend giving Obscure a little of your time. The graphics 
 aren't too hard to look at, and the gameplay can be challenging on higher settings.. The story 
 is set up as a high school being plagued by dissapearing students. When the main character disapeares, 
 his friends decide to stay after school and look for him.. what they dont know? Well that the school 
 is just a breeding ground for an insane principle's genetic experiments. Duh!! Not exactly the 
 most unique game on the market, but the game is creepy and the dialogue humorous enough to keep 
 the Survivial-Horror fans adding it to the library. If you just like being creeped out by game, 
 give it a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: unbm_forever
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 3, 2005 2:20 pm PT
Review:  The way the camera is ! 
  The movements !
  The Light !
  The characters !
  The Fear !
  
  wonderful game & thanx ..
  
  thats it i'm get to goooooooooooooooooooooooooooo 
 
  Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear 
 Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear 
 Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear 
 Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear 
 Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear 
 Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear 
 Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear 
 Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear 
 Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear 
 Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear 
 Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear 
 Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear 
 Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear 
 Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear Fear 
 Fear Fear 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_angry_amish
Rating: 6.8
Date: Oct 18, 2005 1:11 pm PT
Review:  Not a whole lot to say about this one, really. The scenario, the weapons, the bosses, all stuff 
 we've seen before, as well as things that have been done BETTER in other games. 
  
  Sure, there are a couple of things worth mentioning in here, like how the interaction with the 
 environment is of a higher quality than most other games of this type, or how particularly eerie 
 some of the sounds and lighting effects were, but overall this is a re-hash of a game you HAVE 
 PROBABLY seen before, being an amalgam of Resident Evil, Silent Hill, even a little Myst, etc. 
 
  
  Maybe that's why I liked Obscure.
  
  In today's everchanging gaming world where everyone is looking to try and one-up the other and 
 be the first to do something fantastic or ridiculous on a game, this game is a throwback to all 
 those old classic over-the-shoulder horror games that we knew and grew up with as kids. It implements 
 enough new features and tinkers with a few new concepts so as to make it interesting enough to 
 be bought (at a very reasonable price I might add) by gamers who pride themselves on quality, not 
 just on hype. 
  
  If you've got the hard drive space (and you will need a lot) , a reasonable 3D card, some spare 
 time, 20 bucks cash, and a pension for some almost-A grade horror and suspense, then you might 
 as well get Obscure. 
  
  If not, well, then you're not really missing out on anything spectacular. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
