-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Oddworld: Abe's Exoddus
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/oddworldabesexoddus/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Feb  3, 1999
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8
Critic Score: 8.7, 15 Review (s)
User Score: 8.8, 315 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: GT Interactive
Developer: Oddworld
Genre: 2D Platformer
Date:     Nov 30, 1998 &raquo;  

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Abe's Exoddus is a worthy follow-up to the original and looks beautiful, controls nicely, is plenty 
 difficult, and equally rewarding. 

 Gaze into the soulful eyes of the scrawny, mild-mannered hero of Abe's Exoddus and you'll know he's 
 weathered some hard times. Of course, unless you played through his first game, you have no idea 
 just how hard he's had it, and thus no idea what's in store for him the second time around. Conversely, 
 Abe's veterans will have a pretty good sense of what's at stake. After all, the sequel to Abe's 
 Oddysee closely follows the first game's challenging formula with a combination of hair-trigger 
 side-scrolling action and puzzle-solving, though it throws in plenty of tough, new bad guys and 
 situations. Like the first game, the result feels almost scientific in its demand for an ideal 
 proportion of dexterity and mind power, even though (again like the first game) it's virtually 
 guaranteed to frustrate for short stretches at a time. Abe's Exoddus, cleverly disguised as just 
 a simple side-scroller, is a worthy follow-up to the original and looks beautiful, controls nicely, 
 is plenty difficult, and equally rewarding.  

 At a glance, Abe's Exoddus appears identical to the first game, which means it looks fantastic - 
 in both senses of the word. Abe's enemies are brilliantly conceived, and somehow manage to be both 
 menacing and comical at the same time. His old foes are back, such as the mean-spirited machine 
 gun toting Sligs and the spider-like Paramites, but new threats abound. The most dangerous of these 
 include flying Sligs, with propellers for rear ends and a limitless supply of grenades, and the 
 unassuming, amorphous Fleeches that can swallow Abe whole with the flick of a four-foot tongue. 
 All of these, Abe himself included, are smoothly animated and very life-like. Unfortunately, they 
 all appear a little too pixelated when set against the high-resolution backgrounds. The scenery 
 itself is richly colored and detailed, occasionally even to a fault, as certain areas look too 
 busy or too cluttered.  

 Still, if you're observant, you'll quickly get a good sense of how to get through any given area. 
 Unfortunately, the same can't be said for Abe's fellow Mudokons, a race imprisoned by the wicked 
 Glukkons and forced into hard labor in their nefarious brewery. Many of Abe's pals in Exoddus have 
 been brutally blinded; you'll need to guide them to safety with your voice, by telling them to 
 stop and go as necessary. Having to see for the blind is just one of many different puzzle elements 
 in Abe's Exoddus, making parts of the game feel like Psygnosis' classic Lemmings. In fact, there's 
 a lot of talking to be done throughout the game. You'll need to talk down angry or depressed Mudokons. 
 Abe can mind-control just about anything, so long as one of those pesky head-zapping devices isn't 
 around to keep him from trying. In an interesting if rather tasteless touch, he can even assume 
 control of his own explosive flatulence, and he'll need to use this newfangled technique to detonate 
 mines or other hazards from afar. Once you mind-control one, you can make a Slig open voice-recognition 
 doors with the proper series of curses and chortles. And if you manage to get into the head of 
 one of the square-shouldered, ill-tempered Glukkons, you can coerce any Sligs in the area to follow 
 your every command.  

 At other times, he'll just need to run like hell. Situations like these present little or no room 
 for error, and in consequence, you'll witness poor Abe die death after brutal death over and over 
 because of your lousy human reflexes. Fortunately, unlike in Abe's Oddysee, in Exoddus you can 
 save anywhere, anytime and after your inevitable demise you'll start off right there. And so, in 
 consequence, even though the individual puzzles in Exoddus are more difficult or complicated than 
 in the first game, because you needn't start each sequence from the very beginning the game ends 
 up feeling more challenging yet less frustrating. The game isn't short by any stretch and mostly 
 well paced throughout, with high-speed action sequences interjected by the occasional puzzle where 
 you can actually take your time to think. Often times you'll have a choice of where to go next, 
 adding a satisfying flexibility to the course of the game. And all throughout, you'll get plenty 
 of hints on how you should approach the forthcoming region.  

 So there's a lot of handholding in Exoddus, but don't let that fool you into thinking you'll have 
 an easy time with it. Fact is, like its predecessor, Exoddus is extremely difficult, and success 
 will invariably demand continuous trial and error no matter how good you think you are at platform 
 games. Then again, you probably won't get stuck in any one sequence for too long, and if you do, 
 there's a good chance you can backtrack and do something else instead, then return to that point 
 after you've gained a little more experience behind enemy lines. Inevitable frustrations aside, 
 Abe's Exoddus is continually rewarding as you successfully accomplish its countless, difficult 
 trials of dexterity and wit. On top of that, you'll be treated to some of the highest quality cinematics 
 you've ever seen, all together making Abe pretty tough to beat.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (5 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: arogo
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 11, 2008 6:39 pm PT
Review:  Well, it's been a good 12 odd months (excuse the pun) since the adventures of Abe the wayward Mudokon 
 were concluded in the seminal platformer Oddworld: Abe's Oddysee, but as it turns out, you can't 
 keep a good series down. For the uninitiated, Abe's Exoddus (OAE) is more of an off-shoot than 
 a true sequel for the first game, and at times is does genuinely feel like it's experimenting with 
 its own genre. However, the game never really fit into any moulds in the first place, so it's a 
 safe bet. This time around, OAE is more accessible, easier without losing its challenge and a hell 
 of a lot lighter in tone than its predecessor. In short, it's an ideal sequel, keeping with the 
 series' roots and expanding on its best facets, while introducing new features and taking the series 
 to a new level. This is the game that will bring many more jaded platform gamers into the series 
 and back to the genre. It's that good.
  
  The game picks up where the first one left off. Abe has returned to his people and received a hero's 
 welcome for his rescuing efforts at Rupture Farms. No sooner are he and his 99 buddies kicking 
 their feet up, Abe has a visitation by the spirits of Mudokons past. Turns out the Glukkons are 
 up to their old monopoly schemes again. Their newest creation-Necrum Mines-is going about harvesting 
 the bones from ancient Mudokon burial grounds, and using blind Mudokon slaves to do it! So Abe 
 sets out with a ragtag entourage to find out exactly what's going on. Their journey leads them 
 to discover exactly what these bones are going towards, a new beverage called SoulStorm Brew. With 
 Abe's pals thirsty and unaware of the brew's origin, they quickly become intoxicated. It's up to 
 Abe to escape the mines, meet up with his spirit acquaintances to try and find a cure, and hopefully 
 save his race again. Story continues to play an important part in OAE. Though the dark undercurrents 
 and themes of the first game are downplayed somewhat, the game more than makes up for it with its 
 humorous cut-scenes and characters. The story in general has a bigger scope than the first game. 
 Much like the original, Abe's mission starts off fairly small but becomes grander as new information 
 is uncovered. A lot more dialogue is involved in the cut-scenes (Abe's rhyming voice-over has been 
 scrapped) and some, like the "newsflash" type scenes in the later levels, are a real treat and 
 add to the lighter atmosphere of the game.
  
  OAE sticks fairly closely to the original's formula of side-scrolling platforming combined with 
 timing and stealth based puzzles. Thankfully, one key new addition has been added to ease the strain 
 from these often frustrating affairs: the quicksave. That's right folks; you can now save anytime, 
 anywhere. If you happen to screw up, you'll return immediately to where you saved. This feature 
 alone is enough to make OAE a far more accessible and mainstream title than its predecessor, but 
 the game doesn't stop there. The developers have taken some time to make sure that the best mechanics 
 of the original have remained intact. Abe's main quest is once again to save his Mudokon friends, 
 but this time there's a grand total of 299 of them! Rescue is achieved by chanting to open "bird 
 portals". There are now several different "types" of Mudokons, including blind, wired, angry and 
 depressed. Each type needs to be approached in a different way. GameSpeak-the mechanic that allows 
 Abe to communicate with different characters-is back and now includes such orders as "All o'ya!" 
 for guiding several Mudokons at once as well as the "Sorry" and slap gestures than can be used 
 to console different types of Mudokons. Abe can now use his unique possession skill not just on 
 Sligs, but also on Scrabs, Paramites, Glukkons, the new Flying Sligs and even-in a bizarre twist 
 during the latter parts of the game-his own farts. Each of these foes has their own GameSpeak which 
 can be exploited to solve puzzles or dispatch other enemies. As a result, there are even more communication-based 
 puzzles than the original. The game also introduces several new enemies. Fleeches are nasty grub-like 
 creatures which swallow their prey whole and can climb ledges. Greeters are large mechanical drones 
 with motion sensors attached which will zap anything they feel moving around. Flying Sligs move 
 quickly through the air, throwing grenades and Sloggies are baby Slogs which act in much the same 
 way but are slower. Fleeches are probably the most interesting of all the new creatures, but they 
 all add a new, if subtle, touch of their own to the gameplay. The "mystic rings" systems has been 
 expanded to include rings for blowing up bombs, invisibility rings, rings for healing sickness 
 and, you guessed it, the Shrykull power. This is used several times in the game, but not so much 
 that it ruins the effect. Some variety is added to the levels in the form of mine carts (for squashing 
 everything in your path) and cover areas, where you must hide yourself from Slig fire from the 
 background (I can't remember if this ever happened in the original, but it's pretty cool) . Fans 
 may be a little disappointed to find the whistling and bell-playing rhythm puzzles have been omitted. 
 More noticeable is the absence of Elum from the nature levels. However, after all's said and done, 
 you don't really mind because there's so much variety on offer. 
  
  Once again, the game remains completely HUD-less throughout. Tips and instructions are given through 
 directories and messages within the environment. The strangely prophetic fireflies are another 
 omission from the gameplay. OAE was made using the same engine as the original but it somehow seems 
 to look marginally better. Perhaps it's because there is more variety in the backgrounds. They 
 may be static, but they still look spectacular. Some of the character models and movements have 
 been refined, particularly the Paramites. The frame rate occasionally trips when there's several 
 explosions on screen but it's a rare thing. The AI is again top notch. It has even been improved 
 as now Mudokons will stop before walking through drills, as well as copy Abe's movements such as 
 running or sneaking. There are small graphical touches everywhere, from the explosions to the wells. 
 However, it is the CGI cut-scenes that again steal the show. They are even more spectacular than 
 the first game, with great lighting and character movement. They really are something special. 
 There is more variety in the music and the voice-acting is excellent.
  
  OAE compensates for its smoother difficulty curve by adding some extra playtime over the original, 
 about 5+ hours in fact. Total game time is about 20-25 hours although it could take longer if you're 
 new to the series. Although it may sound like an "easier" game, OAE doesn't let up on its challenge. 
 The quicksave feature simply takes the frustrating edge off most of the puzzles. You'll be faced 
 with many more sequences similar to the final areas of the Paramite and Scrab temples in the first 
 game. However, they are better designed and on the whole more enjoyable than the original's reflex 
 testers. The challenge to find all the secret areas and rescue all 299 Mudokons offers some replay 
 value, and still affects the outcome of the game. It is neither easy nor essential to do this, 
 but it's there. 
  
  Oddworld: Abe's Exoddus has every right to be a part of this series. Though it may not have the 
 breakneck pace or action of a first-person shooter, it does offer a compelling, if slightly less 
 intimate story along with some exciting and unique gameplay. There is something about this series 
 that makes it feel less like a game and more like an experience. It is, simply put, a labour of 
 love. Fans will love it, and will no doubt enjoy exploring the expanded elements from the original. 
 Newcomers may be a bit hesitant, but the likeable characters, friendlier difficulty and overall 
 charm of a game like this can't be resisted for long. There is real reward in completing a game 
 like this. It is something not to be missed. However, don't discount Abe's Oddysee from your bargain 
 bin collection; it makes a fitting partner when combined with its sequelsorry, off-shoot. I have 
 every confidence that the future of Oddworld is in safe hands, and will deliver another diverse 
 experience hopefully not too far down the track. Simply stunning.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bat178
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 27, 2008 7:51 pm PT
Review:  It is a good game, but not as good as its sequel or prequel, it has nice stealth gameplay, good 
 music, and great backgrounds, but it just isn't as good as its prequel and sequel are, it is a 
 continuation of the prequel, you play as a guy named abe, and you have to rescue workers called 
 mudokons from all sorts of different facility's, there are all sorts of cool creatures in this 
 game that you can possess (Well, most of them you can possess, some of them cant be possessed for 
 some reason) , there are slug-like guards, a cross between a horse and a snake, pink dogs with only 
 two legs and no eyes, and much more. Overall, the sequel and prequel are better than this, but 
 I suggest you rent and play this, it might not be as good as its sequel or prequel, but it is still 
 a good game worth playing, trust me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shatilov
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 5, 2007 3:37 am PT
Review:  The Good : The Same wierd gameplay continue with you in this sequal with Abe , as you play as him 
 once again after your last escape , , the gameplay this time offers alot of differences , such 
 as In-Game Ssve , &amp; there is alot of gameplay explains (tips &amp; ways that help you around 
 ur way) , you can order more than one Madukan at a time (that's great !!! no more going back &amp; 
 forward) . The AI is well scripted in the game , you wont notice them doing anything not normal 
 , &amp; ionfact they will adapt to your location (follow you &amp; hunt you down * shoot you) . 
 As to the graphics , well now it is 2007, &amp; the game is still graphically playable !!! this 
 is due to the fact that many people might still play this game . as long as ur not a fan of beify 
 resolutions this game is in 640x480 , or 800x600 , well looking for the time it is made , that 
 is great !! The sound on the other hand is superb , &amp; the way the sound interact with Abe moving 
 slowly or fast , throwing a rock , etc.. dogs barcking , fire shots , etc... it is great , everything 
 is well heard .  
 Bad : The bad about this game , is the difficulty , since sometimes you end up falling in situations 
 were you will be trapped in them , the game is not difficuilt , it depends on the situations . 
 &amp; In the matter of sounds &amp; Graphics I could'nt notice anything bad about them , accpet 
 that the graphics are native to 600x480 or 800x600 (forgot which res) too bad since the game looked 
 good , &amp; I could only hope to see it in higher res. but it's ok .  
 Notes About The Game  
 - The Game isn't difficult , it all depends on the situations that you put ur self in , (ex, when 
 u put ur self between mines with no rocks to detonate them , then what would u do !!) &amp; that 
 kind of situations it all depends on being prepared .  
 - The Game's Res. isn't bad since the game itself is from the year 1998 , so u shouldn't consider 
 this a bad thing . ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 I say that this game is good&amp; if u still haven't played it so far , then dont wait anylonger 
 &amp; go out &amp; get it , which I doubt anyone will find it , ur hope is to borrow it from a 
 relative or friend , who u think he was a PC Gamer back in the days . but if u manage to find it 
 in some store or Online , then dont hasitate &amp; get it, Along with the 1st Part . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: medofiky
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 2, 2007 10:01 am PT
Review:  what would i say ... PERFECT ?? is it enough?? i dont think so!!!
  
  i think this is the most wonderful game I've ever played since 1989 till now 2007 and maybe it'll 
 be my fav. game till i die lolz the sounds, the graphix, the controls, the colors, the whole idea 
 and everything about this game is superb and amazing
  i really cant spot loving that game
  
  funny game and it make me think and enjoy lol some times i play it to relax and take a rest 
 of working , it lasts for ages, and i've still playing it till now really love it
  
  Bye Byez
  Medoz 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jabbawocky04
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 15, 2005 1:30 pm PT
Review:  Now there were great elements in the first Oddworld game and they follow on to this next installment 
 but a few extra things are added to make this game a bit more. You once again control Abe the Mudoken 
 but you are now free and during your celebration of freeing Mudokens and destroying Repture Farms 
 you are knocked out and have a dream of the Mudoken spirits saying that the Glukons are digging 
 up their bones and using them in a new product and they are using new blind Mudokens to dig them 
 up. Abe sets off on a quest to save the Mudokens. For some reason in this game the moves follow 
 through much better and the flow of the game is less disrupted. There is no graphical improvement 
 in this game. The Mudokens have more speech to their disposal and now that you can posses more 
 creatures conversation is better. No different endings this time and only the game make this too 
 short really. I applaud this game as it continues a greatness of the previous game and is still 
 really fun. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
