-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Oddworld: Abe's Oddysee
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/puzzle/oddworldabesoddysee/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec  8, 1997
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.1
Critic Score: 7.9, 7 Review (s)
User Score: 8.6, 537 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: GT Interactive
Developer: Oddworld
Genre: 2D Platformer
Date:     Oct 31, 1997 &raquo;  

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Abe's is the ideal platformer, balancing its action and puzzle elements perfectly to make the game 
 intelligent, engaging, and, best yet, fun. 

 Most games fall into one of two categories: those that are nothing more than clones and those that 
 improve upon what's come before them. GT Interactive's Oddworld: Abe's Oddysee counts among the 
 latter, continuing the tradition of intelligent and enjoyable platform games established by Prince 
 of Persia and Flashback.  

 You play a slave named Abe, who works at the meat-processing plant Rupture Farms. Abe's a Mudokon, 
 a gangly, orange-eyed, green-skinned creature with a samurai's tuft of hair and the posture of 
 an ape - hardly your typically cute platform hero. The premise is that the factory's owners have 
 found a tasty new treat to whip into production since they ran their last "dish" into extinction. 
 The problem is the new entr&amp; eacute; e is you. Or more precisely, the Mudokons. When an eavesdropping 
 Abe finds this out, he starts ham-stepping stage left right quick (proving that curiosity can save 
 the cat, too) . Your goal, as Abe, is to escape Rupture Farms, liberating as many fellow Mudokons 
 as possible, finding a way to bring down the plant once and for all. Using the limited vocabulary 
 set, Abe must convince the Mudokons to follow him to safety, all the while racing through the factory 
 flipping switches, avoiding obstacles, evading heavily armed guards, and staying alive.   

 While other games promise a variety of enemies and enemy AI, Oddworld delivers, with creatures such 
 as the Sligs (the aforementioned "heavily armed guards" of Rupture Farms, who are basically slugs 
 with guns on stilts) , Paramites (Giger face-hugger-like creatures) , Scrabs (essentially four fast-moving 
 legs with a sharp beak) , and Slogs (the Sligs' fleshy-headed "dogs") . Each species has its own 
 unique personality, which has to be understood and adapted to if Abe has any hope of surviving. 
 For example, the Paramites get quite vicious if cornered or found in groups but can be distracted 
 if you throw them chunks of meat; the Scrabs fight like Beta fish if you can manage to lead them 
 into the same room; the Sligs can be controlled through Abe's psychic ability, if no mind-control-inhibiting 
 machinery is nearby; and the Scrogs, in turn, can be ordered around by possessed Sligs. The game's 
 developers, Oddworld Inhabitants, refer to the creature AI as A. L. I. V. E. (Alive Life-Forms In a 
 Virtual Environment) , and it goes a long way towards making you feel as if you're interacting with 
 an actual world and its inhabitants.  

 Other variations from the platform norm include the absence of scoring (the goal is just to stay 
 alive and save your friends, not rack up points) , life meters (you'll know when you've expired) , 
 or extra lives (you simply start back at the beginning of the section you were in after dying) . 
 Once you realize that these features are missing, you'll probably begin to wonder why games ever 
 needed them in the first place. Best yet, unlike any number of platformers, Oddworld: Abe's Oddysee 
 requires a lot of thought in solving its puzzles, which are well constructed and challenging instead 
 of cheap and frustrating. Abe's really is the ideal platformer (whether you're playing it on the 
 PC or playing the virtually identical PlayStation version) , balancing its action and puzzle elements 
 perfectly to make the game intelligent, engaging, and, best yet, fun. And with 25-30 hours of gameplay, 
 there's a lot of meat for you to chew on, whatever kind it may end up being.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (12 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: arogo
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 10, 2008 5:50 am PT
Review:  As Oddworld: Abe's Oddysee (OAO) draws to a close, you can't help but feel you've been part of 
 something really special. This is one of the most unique games I've ever played; it's far more 
 than your average platformer. It truly redefines what story-driven gameplay should be. Though it's 
 not perfect, it is a thoroughly immersive experience that almost seems to fit in a genre all of 
 its own.
  
  You play as Abe, a member of a humanoid race known as the Mudokons. Abe is a hard working employee 
 at the meat processing factory Rupture Farms, run by the almost Mafia-like Glukkons. The game opens 
 with Abe in chains, awaiting his fate at the hands of Rupture Farms' head badass Molluck. The game 
 is therefore told in flashbacks and as it turns out, your actions within the game will decide Abe's 
 fate. Abe's quest begins when, one quiet night on the job, he gets wind of Rupture Farms' flailing 
 sales. The wild animals used as ingredients in their delicacies are being pushed to the brink of 
 extinction. So, as a last resort, the Glukkons plot to turn Abe and his buddies into mincemeat, 
 quite literally. Abe has no other choice than to escape, but to do so he'll need to face his inner 
 demons and the twisted henchmen of Molluck. The story has many twists and turns, advanced by cutscenes 
 between most levels. Without giving too much away, once Abe escapes into the wild, he will find 
 that he is not just a green-skinned anorexic in a loincloth, but the saviour of the Modukons. You 
 form a connection with Abe that has to be experienced to be believed. Every time he dies in-game 
 you fell as though a part of you has died with him. The game exploits this connection well. The 
 subtle themes of Capitalism and industrialisation destroying the planet are present, but thankfully 
 are never brought to a preachy fore. 
  
  OAO is essentially a side-scrolling platform puzzler. Many of these puzzles are based on timing 
 and stealth, and they don't always require combat to complete. Abe himself cannot fight, but he 
 can use the environment around him, as well as his nifty possession skill, to take control and 
 inflict damage on opponents. Possession is achieved through Abe chanting, which leaves his body 
 vulnerable to attack, but once possessed, he can use all the abilities of his enemies (in this 
 case the squid-faced Sligs) against them. Abe can free his fellow Mudokons by chanting to open 
 "bird portals". The unique "GameSpeak" function is factored in here, allowing Abe to interact with 
 and guide his workmates. GameSpeak can also be used with Sligs, but it is far more limited. You 
 can choose to ignore this rescue mechanic entirely, but it will affect the ending of the game. 
 Abe can also jump, run, sneak, hide in shadows, throw rocks and grenades, crouch and roll. You 
 will need to use all these abilities throughout the game. The game contains no HUD at any time, 
 instead it offers hints, direction and background information through directories, messages andfireflies 
 scattered throughout the levels. The game uses a savepoint system which can be punishing at times, 
 but shouldn't prove too much of an obstacle for hardcore gamers.
  
  OAO has a unique graphical look. The backgrounds, whilst mostly static, give a nice feel and character 
 to each screen. Lighting is used very well as well. The character and enemy models (including spider-like 
 Paramites and a horned mount named Elum) are fluid and move well within the environment. The AI 
 for each type of enemy is varied and requires you to think in different ways. For example, Paramites 
 will attack if cornered or in a group while Scrabs will fight one another if they are caught together. 
 However, I found fellow Mudokons to be quite stupid on occasions. The stars of the show by far 
 are the cutscenes. The CGI here is brilliant. They are both unsettling and occasionally humorous, 
 but always astounding. The voice of Abe speaking in rhyme adds to the whole atmosphere and thick 
 mythology of this game. Voice work, as little as there is, is solid. Sound effects are equally 
 great. The game uses music more as a tool to incite panic during tense moments than to create atmosphere, 
 but the game works fine without it. Controls are very good, apart from the slightly unresponsive 
 jump.
  
  If there is one thing stopping OAO from becoming everyone's cup of tea it is the difficulty. Some 
 sequences and puzzles will take you more than half a dozen attempts to complete. The final areas 
 in the Scrab and Paramite temples are prime examples of quick reflexes and even quicker timing 
 being required. I found that these areas are also some of the most rewarding to complete, but it 
 will frustrate casual gamers. OAO features some nice (to quote Gamespot) "Oh Snap!" moments which 
 are almost worth the price of admission. The chant rings which blow up bombs and the first time 
 you use the Shrykull powers are both awesome and diverse gameplay mechanics which will hopefully 
 be developed further in future games.
  
  OAO should take you a good 15-20 hours to complete, though it could be more if you're a bit inexperienced 
 at games. There is some replay value here; you can attempt to rescue all 99 Mudokon employees if 
 you like. To do so, you will need to find all the secrets areas in the game. These are often in 
 concealed, hard to reach places and contain some tricky puzzles, but they're there if you want 
 them.
  
  It is very hard to describe Oddworld: Abe's Oddysee. It's part platformer, part puzzler, part character 
 study and part technical achievement. Everything about this game reeks of quality, hell, even the 
 game manual is engaging, featuring a particularly witty summary of the story. I can already predict 
 that its difficulty will keep some from experiencing all it has to offer, but it really is their 
 loss. The scary thing is every new mechanic it possesses has room to be further developed. Considering 
 this has been announced as the first part in a quintology, I'm sure we can count on this becoming 
 a classic cult franchise. I cannot recommend this enough. It's an immersive, complex web of storytelling 
 and gameplay ingenuity that should be experienced by every self respecting gamer.
  Long live Abe!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: -owenG-
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 31, 2008 4:06 am PT
Review:  Abes oddysey is a platformer game set in a fictional universe on the planet Oddworld, The story 
 starts off with young Abe, a "Mudokon" slave born and raised in a meat processing plant named Rupture 
 Farms, discovers that the meat industry is going down hill, thanks to extinctions caused by the 
 plant and the managers have a radical new idea that they estimate will skyrocket their buisness: 
 Farm Mudokons.
  
  After the horrible discovery you start playing.
  
  What really sets Abe's Oddysee apart from other platformers is it's humorously crude, mature content 
 mixed with puzzle gamplay to keep you interested. Not to mention the Highly curious art style and 
 odd character design.
  
  Abe is one of those back in the day games that made gaming what its all about, if you missed it 
 then you suck, games these days are losing their shine. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bat178
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 30, 2008 11:50 am PT
Review:  This is a great game, and better than its sequel, it has a great storyline, puzzles, a PERFECT 
 background selection, and AWESOME music, it is a great game worth playing, it has a nice variety 
 of creatures, like slug-like guard with shotguns, spiders with hands for faces, dogs with two legs 
 and no eyes, and more. One of the best things about this game is the background, it is absolutely 
 amazing, it ranges from factorys to forests, to deserts, to even wooden temples, another great 
 thing about this game is the music, it is almost as good as the backgrounds, it has an absolutely 
 amazing soundtrack, really, you will want to hear it again after you listen to it, overall, this 
 is the original, and best, in series, I highly recommend you get this game over its sequel, but 
 you should also get its sequels sequel, which is as good as this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dragoncub
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 4, 2007 3:32 pm PT
Review:  ... that your parents will let you play (probably) .
  Sound sappy? Don't worry. This is in the same legue as 'Cake Baking 2000' or 'Bingo! 2'. Aeurgh. 
 I would rather die. It most certainly is NOT. It can be - as is - a lot messier.
  
  The idea behind this is that you are Abe, a Mudukon, a slave of Rupture Farms, a meat processing 
 plant (Rupture Farms, not you) . As meat supplies thin and profits fall, Mulok the Glukkon has to 
 look towards finding a new source of iron and protein....
  ... YOU!
  
  You spend your game trying to escape, bringing as many of your Mudukon friends with you. You are 
 the skinny thin blue guy with a stitched mouth, lamp-like eyes and no weapons, in a world of quick-draining 
 vampire bats, explosive bombs, rifle-toting Sligs, vicious bloodthirsty Slogs, hand-faced paramites, 
 territorial sprinting Scrabs, and oh so much more. Sounds dangerous? Oh, yeah.
  
  On the plus side, you can posses the Sligs. All of which carry weapons. All of which can command 
 Sligs  which are really just a giant pair of jaws on two legs  with commands 'Here boy' and 'Get 
 him!'. You have to watch out because the Sligs can either 1: have a protective beacon that zaps 
 you when you try, or 2: have more than one Slig on screen that will shoot you as soon as you're 
 'in' (just get the second as well) . Most of the time is running and puzzle-solving, though, so 
 keep your reflexes tuned to the max! Although it may start off easy, difficulty mounts to the extreme!
 
  
  Your main target is to escape, to a place of great mystery (OK, I'm just not going to tell you 
 what it is, OK? You find that out yourself) , and bring as many other Mudukons as you can with you. 
 THIS IS IMPORTANT as it will affect the ending of your game! If you ignore them, shot them, trap 
 them or so on and laugh evilly, they will let you die at the end. If you save enough, they return 
 the favor.
  
  This is a great game that will leave you tingling and pumped with that wonder-drug - adrenaline. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DroidSmuggler
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 25, 2007 11:47 am PT
Review:  From the moment the title screen appears and Abe pokes his head through to greet you it becomes 
 apparent that this will be like no other game you've played before. Though unconventional (and 
 often strange) there's also a lot to like about Oddworld and it's many inhabitants, including the 
 unwitting hero of the story. Abe you see is by no means your traditional action hero. He's neither 
 strong, well armed, or brave for that matter. But what he lacks in physical prowess he makes up 
 for in his ability to communicate - most importantly with his fellow Mudokons (who are also enslaved 
 within the confines of Rupture Farms) . Mastering Abe's ability to communicate using sounds &amp; 
 gestures is key to success in this game, as well as learning how to manipulate other characters 
 both good and bad. And that's just one of the many things that makes Oddword such a unique game.
 
  
  The talented folks at GT Interactive have conceived a lively world quite different from those normally 
 seen in platform games. The background scenery, ambient sounds, character design &amp; animation 
 are all done extremely well. From the way Abe turns and shrugs his shoulders when he doesn't know 
 what to do, to the way he humorously moves while trying to sneak past the evil Slig guards, there 
 are all sorts of little touches that give the game a polished look &amp; feel. You'll probably 
 find it'll take a while to get used to controlling Abe, learning all his moves and mastering his 
 chants &amp; whistles, but that's really part of the fun and challenge of this game.
  
  Despite its looks however Abe's Oddysee should not be confused with a standard platform game. In 
 reality, the entire 2D platform presentation is just a setting for what is actually a fairly deep 
 puzzle game - think of it as a puzzle/platformer, with the emphasis on the 'puzzle.' This can be 
 good or bad depending on your taste, and the level of challenge you're willing to endure. Either 
 way it's important to know this going in lest you end up frustrated or disappointed. I have to 
 confess, when I rediscovered this game not too long ago I didn't quite realize the degree to which 
 puzzle solving plays a role in the game. Fortunately, for the less than dexterous and puzzle challenged 
 Abe is given an infinite number of lives. This is a huge relief since you will find that poor Abe 
 meets his demise often, and in some unfortunate ways. Dying simply means you're put back several 
 screens and have to work your way back through them. But that's really the charm in all of this 
 in that eventually you'll start figuring out how to get through each screen. Usually it's a combination 
 of a little creative thinking and a whole lot of trial and error. Eventually you'll make your way 
 to the next area, having (hopefully) rescued some of your comrades, which instills a great sense 
 of accomplishment. This is further rewarding in that the story continues to unfold the further 
 you progress and the scenes &amp; settings are always fresh and pleasing. In short, there's a lot 
 here to keep you moving forward. By the way, the more Mudokons you rescue throughout the journey 
 the better the ending - when and if you finally get there.
  
  Abe's Oddysee is by no means the kind of game that will garner widespread appeal. But for those 
 who enjoy puzzle solving, or the occasional quirky title, and have the patience for learning how 
 to effectively control poor Abe, this can be an enjoyable and rewarding adventure... probably like 
 no other. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shatilov
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 5, 2007 3:54 am PT
Review:  The Good : A weird gameplay that makes you try &amp; adapt to the habits of the Madukans , with 
 a lot of funny situations that come along the way , rhymes , &amp; poetry , &amp; stuppid moves 
 that make u just luagh , lol , You play as Abe , as you walk around Rapture Fames trying to escape 
 &amp; free you people with you , this story offers alot &amp; it's levels aren't simple . As to 
 the graphics , well since they are based on 800x600res or the 640x480 res , they do offer a good 
 quality that make it still worth to be played , &amp; the game's background do infact offer some 
 positive effect on the looks of the game , thus giving it good looking enviroments , which will 
 make it look good. The Sound is great , from hearing the footsteps to hearing the collision of 
 you &amp; the wall , &amp; then come sthe farting sounds , lol . directly after the collisions 
 .  
 Bad : iThe bad about this game , is the difficulty , since sometimes you end up falling in situations 
 were you will be trapped in them , the game is not difficuilt , it depends on the situations . 
 &amp; In the matter of sounds &amp; Graphics I could'nt notice anything bad about them , accpet 
 that the graphics are native to 600x480 or 800x600 (forgot which res) too bad since the game looked 
 good , &amp; I could only hope to see it in higher res. but it's ok  
 Notes About The Game  
 - The Game isn't difficult , it all depends on the situations that you put ur self in , (ex, when 
 u put ur self between mines with no rocks to detonate them , then what would u do !!) &amp; that 
 kind of situations it all depends on being prepared .  
 - The Game's Res. isn't bad since the game itself is from the year 1998 , so u shouldn't consider 
 this a bad thing . ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 I say that this game is good&amp; if u still haven't played it so far , then dont wait anylonger 
 &amp; go out &amp; get it , which I doubt anyone will find it , ur hope is to borrow it from a 
 relative or friend , who u think he was a PC Gamer back in the days . but if u manage to find it 
 in some store or Online , then dont hasitate &amp; get it, Along with the 2nd Part . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Defender_502
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 4, 2006 12:52 pm PT
Review:  For a game released in 1997, Oddworld: Abe's Oddysee had some wonderful graphics with great coloring. 
 The characters were beautifully rendered, and their appearance was befitting of the game's title, 
 Oddworld.
  
  The game followed the same format as many games released in the late-1990s, the background remained 
 stationary while the character's movement was limited to the screen. When the character moved off 
 the screen, the next screen took some time to load before the player could continue.
  
  Abe was a member of the proletariat forced to work by his bourgeoisie masters. The plot of Oddworld: 
 Abe's Oddysee focused on Abe attempting to escape his bonds of slavery, and free his people.
  
  Oddworld: Abe's Oddysee was a puzzle-solving game which required the player to move the title 
 character past various obstacles, such as jumping over gaps or maneuvering Abe around his enemies. 
 If Abe was detected, his enemies would literally tear him apart.
  
  Oddworld: Abe's Oddysee was a very fun game for its time, but with so many other games available 
 now which feature stateoftheart capabilities, it really isn't worth spending time on anymore. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mikeplus2
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 9, 2006 8:55 pm PT
Review:  Get this @#%%ing game it's really good and with a cool story and stuff ,
  
  "And then i fell, i hit my head, then some big face came and said i was dead" said abe at Stockyard 
 escape.
  If u like long games GET THIS ITS 
 
  x999 999 999 999 999 999 999 999 999 999 999 999 999 999 999 999 999 999 999 999 999 999 999 999 
 999 999 999 999 999 999 999 999 999 999 999 999 999 999 999 999 999 999 999 999 999 999 999 999 
 999 999 999 999 999 999 999 999 999 999 999 999 999 999 999 999 999 999 999 999 999 999 999 999 
 999 999 999 999 999 999 999 999 999 999 999 999 999 999 999 999 999 999 999 999 999 999 999 999 
 999 999 999 999 999 999 999 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cmpunmu3
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 11, 2007 4:20 am PT
Review:  Abe's working in the rupture farms factory, that produces products made from meat of wild creatures 
 (fantasized ones) and abe with his friends (mudokons) really likes it. But soon company's business 
 runs low, so the ministry decides to use new ingredient in their famous meals - mudokon meat. This 
 is where all starts: Abe hears out about this idea and decides to run away taking along and freeing 
 as many mudokons on the way as possible.
  The game is a huge puzzle, in different rooms you have to act differently: walk silently, sprint, 
 jump duck and cover at the same time. There are intelligent opponents to deal with, some of them 
 can be controlled by your mind power, so you transfer your soul to their bodies and confuse others 
 by speaking to them in their odd language and after picking the right time - stab them in the back 
 :) .
  Millions of traps to avoid, millions of secret rooms to find and millions of mudokons to save, 
 and all that are protecting millions of intelligent critters that think your meat is sweeter and 
 should be used in rupture farms instead.
  Experience beautiful music and beautiful scenery in this fascinating and long lasting game, be 
 the one to show your opponents your superiorness in logic, stealth and speed. Don't give your meat 
 to just anybody! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Speedfreak_R
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 24, 2006 2:35 pm PT
Review:  When I first read about this game I really didnt know what to think of it. But when it was reviewed 
 with a 9.8 in a magazine I used to read, it suddenly interested me. 
  
  And I was glad it did, cause this must have been one of the most original games I have ever played. 
 The gameplay is just one of a kind and so much fun. I especially liked the fact that you have to 
 free friends through weird portals. And only if you have freed enough of them, only then youve 
 really beaten the game! 
  
  Oddworld: Abes Oddyssee is about Abe, who works in a meatfactory. One day he finds out that they 
 want to start using Abe and all of kind to be produced as meat. And this is where the game starts: 
 Abes trying to escape the factory while rescuing most of his friends. 
  
  As I said before, the gameplay is unique and therefore the most important aspect of this game. 
 The graphics may not be 3D, but they still look great for a game this old. The sounds in the game 
 are very funny, snoring enemies and funny conversations with your friends, and the music reacts 
 to what happens. Making it more exciting than it already was. 
  
  Oddworld: Abes Oddyssee is a unique game and should not be missed if youre into adventure/platform 
 games. So start looking on Ebay! :)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: morpheyous
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 23, 2005 12:10 pm PT
Review:  I had this game for a while, and I played it a little and enjyed it, but became frustrated quickly 
 and was not able to get very far, I the took it to a friends house who my family was staying with 
 for a week, we started a co-op game from the beginnig the game, it was almost a totally different 
 experience, we had so much fun, we played for 3-4 hours strait at least every day together, taking 
 turns in co-op mode, if i couldnt make a certain puzzle he could, and such
  
  basicly, this game is really really fun with a friend, and if you like platformers and own a ps1 
 or pc then i highly recomend this game, the quality of the puzzles and the beautiful art style 
 is consistent all the way through 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jabbawocky04
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 13, 2005 1:24 pm PT
Review:  Abe's Odyssey was so much different from the games of its time (for starters it's 2D when games 
 started going 3D) , it put original characters in an original setting and with an original concept. 
 You play as Abe of the Mudoken race who are happily slaves for the Gulukons (and by happy I mean 
 they obey or are beaten by Sligs) . But Abe finds out the Glukon's secret plan which causes him 
 to rebel (well run) and to try and release and free his Muddoken friends. This game can be played 
 almost perfectly and the possess function works a dream. The graphics are ok but they look a little 
 rough. The sounds of the environment and the creatures of Oddworld are great. Unfortunately there 
 is only the game but I'll add that if you do not do so well on your first completion there is a 
 better ending to be seen. The first in the Oddworld series is amazing there are few like it. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
