-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Odium
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/odium/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec 14, 1999
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.9
Critic Score: 7.1, 21 Review (s)
User Score: 7.9, 127 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Monolith Productions
Developer: Metropolis Soft.
Genre: Strategy
Date:     Nov 30, 1999
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Odium is a role-playing game without any puzzles and a tactical combat game with a repetitive, maddening, 
 and simplistic battle engine. 

 At first glance, Odium appears to be an intriguing cross between the X-COM and Final Fantasy series 
 of games. It promises a deep plot, statistics-based character development, stunning graphics, and 
 tactical, turn-based battles. Unfortunately, most of its features turn out to be underdeveloped, 
 and for every element of this mix that developer Metropolis Software House gets right, two go horribly 
 wrong.  

 In the near future, a secret military compound in Russia is bombed into smoking ruins. A team of 
 NATO commandos is sent to investigate. It disappears. You are Cole Sullivan, leader of a team sent 
 to find out what happened to both the first team and the facility. Actually, you play the role 
 of Cole Sullivan and his two subordinates. You soon discover that the destroyed base is filled 
 with angry mutants. Not surprisingly, that discovery is followed by the realization that you must 
 fight the mutants to complete your investigation.  

 So begins Odium's tale of exploration and combat. And for the first ten minutes you'll probably 
 be enthralled. The game takes place on prerendered backgrounds through which you guide your polygon 
 characters. A huge amount of effort must have gone into creating the game's backdrops; they're 
 amazing. Every area is a cluttered masterpiece filled with elaborate little details. Odium is locked 
 into a 800x600 resolution, but the images are so well drawn that the limited resolution is really 
 a nonissue.  

 Because the characters are rendered in real time, you'd expect them to stick out from the lush, 
 prerendered backgrounds, but each model is so lavishly depicted that it blends into the surroundings 
 almost perfectly. Your mutant enemies are monstrous hybrids of man, animal, and machine, and they 
 look great. The polygon count on virtually every model is high enough to make it appear seamlessly 
 real, and smooth animation completes the effect.  

 The game's interface is excellent as well. It's intuitive and nonintrusive to the point of being 
 almost invisible. From inventory manipulation, to movement, to combat commands, access to every 
 option seems clearly thought out and is no more than a few logical mouse clicks away. It won't 
 take you long to become completely acclimated to the controls so that you can concentrate on the 
 adventure. And that's the last good point in Odium. Unfortunately, once you get past the terrific 
 graphics and the nice interface, agony sets in. The game's story is told mainly through spoken 
 dialog. Dialog needs to be well written and well acted to be effective. However, about the only 
 positive thing that can be said about the voice acting in Odium is that it's marginally better 
 than the horrid dialog. Characters waffle between being generic action heroes and cowardly idiots, 
 often within the span of a single sentence. Their limitless capacity to come completely unglued 
 at the start of every encounter - randomly mixing saucy taunts with simpering displays of fear 
 - becomes tiresome very, very quickly.  

 Although Odium ostensibly has adventure elements, it has virtually no puzzle solving. Each level 
 follows a similar structure: Walk everywhere and pick up every object. To unlock certain areas, 
 you must have a specific item, but there is no guesswork involved. Click on an interactive background 
 element, such as a door or a piece of equipment, and if you have the correct object to activate 
 it, the game automatically prompts you to use it.  

 A set number of encounters are placed at predetermined but invisible points throughout each map. 
 When a battle begins when you walk over any of these locations, a brief loading screen appears 
 and is then replaced with a magnified view of your surroundings. Combat is turn based, and it plays 
 out across a grid of squares that covers the background image. While there's nothing particularly 
 unusual about this structure, Odium's line-of-sight model is singularly asinine. Different weapons 
 have different, mysterious rules governing their firing arc. A pistol, for instance, can be fired 
 only in a straight line. In other words, if an enemy is standing directly next to you, but diagonally, 
 you can't hit it with a handgun. Some firearms have the magical ability to be fired diagonally, 
 but none can be aimed up or down. A mutant the size of a very small mouse will block your view 
 of a fourteen-foot tall monster standing directly behind it. The line-of-sight rules seem even 
 more arbitrary and bizarre because of the realistic graphics and the nature of the weapons.   

 
 Ammunition is in short supply throughout the game. Since you have no idea what battles lie ahead 
 or where you're likely to find more supplies, the biggest strategic element of Odium is deciding 
 whether to fire your weapons or to conserve ammo by simply stabbing your enemies to death. There 
 are a few battle tactics to be mastered - some landscape features, such as barrels, can be used 
 as weapons by exploding them from a distance, and the various enemies have specific strengths and 
 weaknesses. But the combat system is not deep enough to have much lasting appeal, and it becomes 
 tedious long before the game is over.  

 Odium is a role-playing game without any puzzles and a tactical combat game with a repetitive, maddening, 
 and simplistic battle engine. And that's a shame, because somebody really sweated over those graphics. 
    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (6 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: arronizmiguel
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 11, 2008 2:37 am PT
Review:  Indeed, I don't know what was going on in the head of the reviewer of this game, because even today 
 it is one of my favorite games of all times... 
  
  Well, of course, for those who love turn-based strategy, with good RPG elements and fierce combat 
 with interesting phase...
  
  It may be a little difficult to find it now, but this review is more like a Homage for the team 
 who did it in the first place.
  
  A game soooo difficult but at the same time rewarding, that's what a good game is made of, Nice 
 story, and by the time it was released, the intro was Spectacular...
  
  Probably you will find this game on some internet store and most probably very cheap, Give yourself 
 the opportunity to play a good game, and if i'm correct, you'll love it too.
  
  Some games have the bad luck of being reviewed by someone not in the mood to recognize great gameplay 
 over some technical stuff.
  
  As I said... I'm still playing this game after 7 years I bought it. This may sum it up. Greetings! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cmpunmu3
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 15, 2008 3:20 pm PT
Review:  C'mon GameSpot, RPG game with no puzzles? Is this some sort of daft joke? Didn't you notice it's 
 firstly an Puzzle/adventure/quest action game with RPG elements? Sheesh, who reviews games here 
 GameSpot, one-man team? Lol.
  Ok, now my point of view: we can even start from the title that was changed from "Gorky-17" to 
 odd "Odium", i'm pretty sure it've changed a bit the understanding of the main story, because in 
 the original version "Gorky-17" was the city where strange experiments were tested on people using 
 teleportation devices, after which people started to mutate and "Gorky-17" became sealed off, hazardous 
 and dangerous zone.
  Thus the specop squad was sent there to investigate the matter. They've met lots of enemies on 
 their way, each with own method of fighting. Also they found followers and survivors. I'll try 
 not to spoil the interest here, won't get any deeper into the story. Better say that you'll encounter 
 dozen of bosses, each appears with a cut-scene for the higher tension IMO :) Many guns to try out, 
 some of them are really sci-fi like laser, plasma, and remotely controlled satellite with 3 different 
 attacks with enormous area of effect. You'll venture in a ruined city, sewers, indoors with a beautifully 
 designed surroundings, collecting various things and looking for clues, just like in a quest game.
 
  'Bout battle system a bit: there are no enemies you can see whilst exploring the map, combat is 
 being triggered in designated places. When that happens, load screen appears (bit annoying) after 
 which you appear on a battle field like in... say "Vandal hearts" or "Final fantasy tactics". Who 
 played those can imagine the field is a grid (40x50; 15x20 and so on..) . So the attacks can only 
 be made vertically, horizontally and sidelong except them remote special weapons.
  You receive experience by killing an enemy, and can level yourself up to be a better fighter. There 
 is no dialogue options to choose like in proper RPG game, so this one can't be called RPG as GameSpotters 
 said.
  The only minus in game is screen resolution and the knife in the inventory, that only uses free 
 space :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sridanu
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 10, 2007 10:50 pm PT
Review:  First of all i totally disagree with the rating that gamespot has given this game. Odium deserves 
 better... A hell of a lot better.
  
  Although Odium is classified as RPG game its combat method is based purely on turn based statergy. 
 You might even say that the combat in Odium is somewhat similar to the combat of Fallout 2. One 
 of the key aspects in Odium's game play is resource management. You will often have to face situations 
 in which you must decide which weapon or ammunition to use in order to kill the enemy cause if 
 you get it wrong it may be the last choice you make in the game.
  
  Graphics arnt great but its the combination of game play, sound track and story line that earns 
 this game 9/10 from me. You will find no shortage of enemies in the game each of which will have 
 its own unique strengths and weaknesses. You also have the option of improving the fighting skills 
 of your own characters making them better and range attacks, small arms or even hand to hand combat. 
 The choice is yours.
  
  Odium is a RPG game with a lot of fighting and lot less of adventuring. The only bad point i found 
 with it is that once you finish the game its pretty much over. All in all you should really give 
 this game a try. Especially if you enjoy RPG and turn base statergy games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Icarus405
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 17, 2006 9:31 am PT
Review:  Odi-um isn't a highly renowned game, to say the least. In gamespot, there are only 113 users who 
 have this game. Thats one of the reasons i wanted to write this review, to tell people that this 
 game is not as bad as people think.
  Odi-um has a fairly good story. It takes place in Poland, in the year 2009. Three NATO commandos 
 have been sent in to a town, to find out what is happening there. The media has been told that 
 terrorists have struck there, but that is far from the truth.
  The Gameplay in Odi-um is rather unique. Its a mix of an RPG, adventure and turn based combat game. 
 The gameplay consists of two modes. Exploration mode and combat mode, though most of the time you 
 will be in combat. In exploration mode you will be collecting clues and equipment and moving around 
 the well detailed world. Combat usualy starts with an ambush. The game will switch to combat mode 
 in a certain area in exploration mode. Despite what Gamespot says, the combat is fun, tricky and 
 requires careful planning for the best result. During combat, you will not earn XP for kills, but 
 for the damage you do. Whenever a character uses a weapon, it will increase that characters skill 
 for that specific weapon. The combat is turn based. Each turn you can move a specific number of 
 blocks and attack once. Alternatively, you can choose to push an item or take a defensive position, 
 instead of attacking. In the combat area, you will find boxes and barrels. Boxes can be used as 
 cover from ranged attacks. Barrels will do a lot of damage if blown up next to enemies but will 
 also damage you if you are too close. Barrels can be found rather often in the game, but enemies 
 usualy try to stay clear of them. The player has a whole arsenal of weapons to use, from Pistols, 
 Rifles and Grenades to Missiles Molotov Cocktails and even a Flamethrower. There are also many 
 Melee Weapons and other useful items, like bottles of Vodka, that can be thrown at an enemy and 
 ignited by matches or gunfire. Most weapons use ammo, but some weapons, like the Shocker and Flamethrower, 
 recharge after a couple of rounds. There are many different enemies you will encounter during the 
 game. They all have different strengths and weaknesses. These can be determined by attacking them 
 with different weapons and seeing what happens. For example, if you attack a Lilith with a Tranqualizer, 
 you will find out that it is immune to tranqualizing weapons and that will be displayed above its 
 Health Bar. Combat is a lot of fun in Odi-um and it isn't all that repetetive. The areas in which 
 the combat takes place can be quite tricky sometimes. In one particularl combat sequence, you will 
 be fighting in a tight O shaped space against 4 monsters.
  Despite the fact that the game came out back in 1999, it still looks great. That is because the 
 environments are pre-rendered. Only the characters in the game are fully rendered in 3D. The characters 
 look very detailed though and blend in perfectly with the environment.
  The sound in Odi-um is excelent. Its actualy better than the sound in most games these days. Everything 
 sounds very sharp and clear and the dialogue is well done and well read. Besides that, the music 
 in the game is great aswell. It fits perfectly with the mood and atmosphere of the game.
  The controls are very easy to learn, everything you need can be accessed with the mouse. Because 
 of this, there is no section for controls in the options menu, since you won't be needing it anyway.
 
  There isn't much replay value in Odi-um, but despite that, you might find yourself finishing the 
 game again and again from time to time. Its just one of those highly addictive games.
  Overall, Odi-um is a fantastic game, but it can't be recommended to everyone. Thats why you should 
 try the Demo first. It can be found right here at Gamespot. But keep in mind, that the Demo might 
 not show you everything this game has to offer... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grantcorp
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 30, 2006 3:01 pm PT
Review:  Odium is a simplistic yet entertaining squad level tactical game, kind of like a turn based variant 
 of Abomination. Your team of three elite soldiers, usually aided by one or more NPCs that wander 
 about the mission area, walk about in real time on a two dimensional map of a city block or similar 
 until activating one of a number of set trigger areas, which causes the game to zoom in for an 
 encounter.
  
  In battle mode the game is completely turn based and the immediate area has been mapped to a grid 
 of squares. Battles feel more like puzzles than actual fights, but the great monster design and 
 good voice acting brings the tension up close. As each encounter starts you usually find yourself 
 overwhelmed by a frightening opposition, wondering how you will get out of this one alive.
  
  Hardened turn-based players will likely be put off by the simplified combat rules, but those 
 who are willing to accept the game for what it is will find an engaging and exciting, if somewhat 
 short adventure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: centrosaurus
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 4, 2007 11:50 am PT
Review:  The story rotates around some fictitious ideas in Poland. There are Three fixed characters, later 
 on two female and one more male character and then a monster itself joins the team. But the game 
 ends with three alive characters.
  
  The monsters are fierce but interesting. They can be killed by a variety of combinations.
  
 
  The weapons are limited initially, but as the game progresses and monsters cannot be killed by 
 melee weapons alone more and more ranged weapons come into gameplay.
  
  Other than weapons there is health inventory. The game progresses by raise in the levels of individual 
 members of team as they become more and more masterful in killing monsters.
  
  It was one of my first PC games. All those beginners would enjoy this game. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
