-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Off-Road Redneck Racing
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/driving/offroadredneckracing/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: May 31, 2001
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.2
Critic Score: 6.7, 12 Review (s)
User Score: 6.7, 14 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Interplay
Developer: Rage Software
Genre: Rally / Offroad Racing
Date:     May 2, 2001
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Overall, Off-Road Redneck Racing is a fun game, and its low price makes it especially attractive 
 for fans of arcade-style racing. 

  As off-road racing games become more popular in general, a greater diversity in the types of off-road 
 racing are clearly becoming visible -- there are games that take a more realistic approach, while 
 others skew more toward fast, simple, arcadelike gameplay. Inspired by the tasteless 1997 shooter, 
 Redneck Rampage, Off-Road Redneck Racing falls into the latter category, though it has a few characteristics 
 that you might associate with the former category, like the ability to upgrade vehicle parts. Redneck 
 Racing also features impressive graphics, complete with realistic weather effects and detailed 
 tracks that rival the most visually sophisticated off-road racing games to date. However, the game 
 does have a few problems that mar an otherwise completely enjoyable racing experience: The game's 
 inconsistent collision detection and cheating computer opponents can be quite frustrating, especially 
 at first.           The game features surprisingly lifelike weather effects...    

  Despite its slightly offbeat theme, Off-Road Redneck Racing is a fairly straightforward arcade 
 driving game that has all the standard modes of play that you would expect. The driver's championship 
 lets you compete in a series of different races with the opportunity to earn upgrades, as well 
 as unlock new cars and tracks if you perform well enough. There's also a challenge mode in which 
 you can compete against a specified number of computer opponents on any of the unlocked tracks 
 or drive against another human player via a split-screen display. For those who don't particularly 
 care for a split-screen multiplayer mode, Redneck Racing also offers a network mode, but the network 
 mode doesn't have a server searching utility built in, which may make it difficult for you to find 
 an opponent. If you're not in the mood for competition, the time trial mode lets you race alone 
 against the clock. The bulk of your time will probably be spent in the driver's championship, since 
 it provides such a large portion of Redneck Racing's replay value, which is actually quite high 
 since there are a substantial number of new cars and tracks to unlock.   

  On the other hand, most of Redneck Racing's major flaws surface during the driver's championship 
 mode. The most obvious of these lies in the computer's propensity to cheat if you're in the lead. 
 The fact that your initial car is already underpowered aggravates the problem even further because 
 when the computer does pass you, it usually takes a stroke of luck, or nearly all of your nitro 
 boosts, to retake the lead. Occasionally, the computer drivers do make mistakes -- but these instances 
 are rare, and the computer recovers from any mishaps rather quickly. As bad as the cheating can 
 seem, it does give ample motivation for learning each track well and for finding as many shortcuts 
 as possible, as even the slightest bump with other cars or trackside objects can result in your 
 falling behind the pack.   

  Driving a perfect race is absolutely necessary to advance past the first group of cars and tracks 
 in the championship mode, but such a difficult task is made even harder by the game's inconsistent 
 collision detection. Some of the tracks have small objects jutting out from walls or barriers, 
 particularly on sharp turns, but even when it looks as though you've safely cleared the object, 
 your vehicle may still inexplicably collide with it, ruining any chances of winning the race. It's 
 possible to safely avoid these objects by slamming on the brakes, but you shouldn't have to, since 
 it'll appear as if there's clearly enough room to take such turns at top speed. At least when you 
 do become a little more familiar with each of the tracks, colliding with these objects won't seem 
 nearly as bad. Despite this flaw, track design in Redneck Racing is generally good and features 
 plenty of shortcuts and surprises to keep them entertaining, even after numerous laps.         
   ... and highly detailed racetracks.    

  Visually, Off-Road Redneck Racing is surprisingly good, and it's easily one of the best looking 
 off-road racing games to date. During storms, clouds race overhead, lighting streaks through the 
 clouds and hits the ground, and the rain changes direction and hits your car as you speed around. 
 Most cars have a small driver who can be seen shifting gears, and on some cars, you can see individual 
 shocks located near the tires. Texture quality is also very high, giving the environments a more 
 natural look. Unfortunately, the frame rate of the game can be a little unstable on a few tracks, 
 particularly in sequences with extra visual detail, such as reflective puddles of water.   

  Though its problems may cause some frustration in the early going, they become less of an issue 
 as you learn the tracks and the computer cars' behavior. The game looks great, and its soundtrack 
 is well suited to its lighthearted theme, though most of it is forgettable and not really worth 
 listening to after the first few races. The network mode is a little disappointing since it's so 
 hard to find an opponent, but the two-player split screen mode makes it a little easier to play 
 against human opponents. Overall, Off-Road Redneck Racing is a fun game, and its low price makes 
 it especially attractive for fans of arcade-style racing.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (1 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Azghouls
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 25, 2007 6:17 am PT
Review:  When it comes to games reviews by players for players, at times it can be a little subjective. 
 Here, I make no exception. Off-road Redneck Racing for me is one of the most frustrating games 
 I have ever played. I really thought at one stage (actually it's in Division 3) that this will 
 be the very first game I review that 1) will score abysmally low and 2) I will never, ever finish 
 the game. Ever!!!
  
  Happily, I finished it and believe me it's a very cruel game indeed; and extremely addictive! So 
 how can this be after many, many months of total aggravation? Well, it's all about choosing the 
 best 4x4 for the job and driving almost immaculately.
  
  Off-road Redneck Racing carries on the tradition of Leonard and Bubba as you start off in the Championship 
 mode with a pretty lousy pick-up truck or Blackfoot (choose the Blackfoot as it has better handling 
 even though it's slower) you head off to race in six vastly different tracks over four divisions. 
 Be prepared for the looong haul of driving through almost impossible terrains, vile weather and 
 day/evening/night driving that neither rain nor snow nor the Sheriff himself can stop these mud-machines! 
 Fear not as from time to time your car will have an upgrade (if you drive well) or better still, 
 get an offer which you seriously cannot refuse (upon meeting certain conditions of course) . To 
 move on the next division is easy - score the highest points.
  
  The other game play alternatives are time trial, LAN, internet or 'challenge'. In challenge you 
 can race up to 5 CPUs and a choice of any 4x4, tracks and opponents. The catch is that you need 
 to unlock the better 4x4 by racing in the Championship mode. So it's back to square one partner!
 
  
  Graphically this game is superior. Seeing the rustling of leaves to dust devils conjured from passing 
 cars makes one feel that this is off-road at its finest. The glare of the evening sun to rain splattering 
 on the screen can make you squint unknowingly as you try to see the road ahead. Magic!
  
  The Appalachee soundtrack is well suited. It was created by the Dukes of Hazard composer and good 
 'ole boy himself Tim May! Yee Haa! The sounds of engines, crashing (and boy you're gonna hear that 
 quite often) , splashing, cows mooing and chickens cackling are not exactly stimulating and the 
 taunts, well there should be more of them. It's redneck country after all and not your local caf&eacute;.
 
  
  Game play however is a mixed bag. Granted, the roads are never straight. Potholed to the max (don't 
 bring any fizzy drinks) and hurdle through the air brings great frills (I said hurdle and not landing 
 - landing is another issue) . The controls are easy to master as this is more of an arcade-style 
 racing game and thankfully there are no pit stops. No fuel to worry about and no repairs at all. 
 Just crash the car son; she'll be fine.
  
  However there are some serious issues about collision detection and AI as both are inconsistent. 
 You slightly scrap a rock and your 4x4 will be spinning like a twist top. Fine in my eyes however 
 this never happen to the AIs at all! However it gets better that if you are having some serious 
 issues in driving (which is for the majority of the time) the AI bar two (the two being the leaders 
 of the pack) will have issues as well; giving you that false sense of security. What the heck anyway! 
 I'm here to score points! This however is the most frustrating part of the game sadly enough. Don't 
 believe me? Try driving the last track Dead Man's Drop without uttering not one swear word (read 
 between the lines boy) .
  
  Of course frustration causes determination. Thankfully there are shortcuts and a good swerve (use 
 the handbrake) when taking a bend can place you in the lead. The AI will rarely master this however 
 even though if you fail to take that bend, the slide is enjoyable especially through the snow (and 
 that my friend is some serious sliding) and besides you can watch that in action replay; even in 
 slow-motion. Sadly you cannot save the file but there are other means...
  
  Overall, even though the game is frustrating as hell can be, the game can be highly addictive as 
 you defiantly will be skidding, leaping, crashing, cursing, rolling, spinning, splashing and yelling. 
 Welcome to Off-road Redneck Racing and let's hit the road neighbour! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
