-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Omikron: The Nomad Soul
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/adventure/omikronthenomadsoul/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 29, 1999
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6
Critic Score: 7.5, 31 Review (s)
User Score: 8.3, 319 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Eidos Interactive
Developer: Quantic Dream
Genre: Adventure
Date:     Nov 2, 1999
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Omikron's purported innovation and originality amount to nothing more than the senseless combination 
 of unrelated but very familiar play styles. 

 Omikron combines several types of gameplay with limited success. It's a 3D third-person adventure 
 game with one-on-one fighting and shooting sequences, and because none of its three play elements 
 are central, each seems shallow and serves only to provide a break from the other two at any given 
 moment.  

 Although Omikron is a good-looking game by most standards, its attempt to convey a seamless alternate 
 reality falls flat. Its colorful 3D graphics are fairly detailed, and its populace looks distinct, 
 but Omikron's lofty vision warrants a much better treatment. Most of the city looks like your usual 
 postindustrial science-fiction cityscape - it has nothing you haven't seen before in some other 
 science-fiction game or movie. Omikron's just lots of big buildings, shiny cars, droning civilians, 
 and flying ships, and all these things quickly start to look alike and do nothing more than reduce 
 your frame rate to a crawl whenever you're outside. In addition, the character animation is mostly 
 stilted and unrealistic, and the game's hand-to-hand combat sequences look silly, especially compared 
 with the 3D fighting games Omikron attempts to emulate.  

 Fortunately, there isn't too much fighting in Omikron; more often, you'll be investigating the city 
 and talking to its denizens. These conversation sequences, which cut from the game's standard third-person 
 perspective to first-person close-up shots, feature detailed 3D characters that look really good. 
 They emote realistically and actually seem to act their parts, while their unblinking eyes and 
 shifting facial features lend an unusual puppetlike appearance that isn't unattractive.  

 Good voice acting also helps bring Omikron's key characters to life. However, the game's much-ballyhooed 
 soundtrack provided by legendary musician David Bowie and collaborator Reeves Gabrels isn't as 
 good as you might expect. It lacks variety and matches the city's nondescript futuristic appearance 
 with similarly forgettable techno. A few new Bowie songs are also part of Omikron's score and are 
 effective if extraneous as Bowie's in-game alter ego performs them in concert, in-game. Regrettably, 
 Omikron doesn't sound good at all notwithstanding its high-profile soundtrack. Its sound effects 
 are either over-sampled, as with the main character's too-loud footsteps, or far too subdued, as 
 with the game's irritating first-person shooter sequences. Unfortunately, that they sound bad isn't 
 the biggest problem with these obligatory action scenes. Omikron will occasionally switch to a 
 first-person view and invite you to gun down dozens of weak but annoyingly precise enemies as you 
 navigate some mazelike environment. While the game's graphics engine doesn't do a bad job of rendering 
 the enemies, weapon effects, and architecture of these sequences, they nonetheless feel amateurish 
 and utterly disjointed. They're tedious, too long, and generally anticlimactic. In addition, your 
 character moves sluggishly, and it's hard to aim your weapons. As such, these shooter scenes seem 
 much like the fighting sequences, in that they not only feel clumsy but are also entirely inappropriate 
 within what's essentially a slow-paced adventure game.  

 Whether or not it's admirable for a game to combine several genres is beside the point; Omikron's 
 implementation of three totally unrelated types of gameplay is ineffective and completely arbitrary. 
 It's as if the designers combined these genres for no other reason than that someone up top happened 
 to like all three. Consequently, Omikron is like three mediocre games rolled into one: The fighting 
 and shooting sequences drew the designers' attention from the rest of the game, and as a result, 
 even the primary adventure elements are lacking. Omikron tries to be different by restricting not 
 only when but also the number of times you can save your game; it also demands that you get used 
 to using an exotic inventory system that limits how much you can carry for no discernible reason. 
 In addition, although you can select from several responses during conversations with the game's 
 many characters, you'll find that these choices are almost always inconsequential. Even controlling 
 your character is difficult, as simple maneuvers like turns and back steps are far too slow to 
 let you effectively navigate the city's small rooms and narrow alleyways.  

 Omikron does have an interesting premise - while it's supposed to be a mystery, even the back of 
 the box gives away your ability to incarnate many different characters within the city. But even 
 this feature is never put to good use, as every single character you can control seems exactly 
 the same no matter what he or she looks like. Furthermore, the puzzles in the game are trivial 
 or tedious and involve pattern matching, simple arithmetic, boring errands, and some guesswork. 
 The puzzles are never difficult, but your objectives are almost always vague, which is why you'll 
 often end up running around the city with nothing to do. Omikron is a long game, but none of its 
 play elements are satisfying, and instead they all feel like they've been implemented to provide 
 relief from one another, as when Omikron's illusory dialogue gives way to wandering, and when the 
 wandering escalates into shooting, and when the overlong gunfight finally boils down to a simple 
 one-on-one brawl.  

 Although Omikron seamlessly transitions between its various play styles, these unrefined play mechanics 
 are as varied as they are unenjoyable. If you like adventure games, first-person shooters, and 
 fighting games, then you'll count dozens of examples within each genre that beat Omikron handily. 
 And if you don't prefer these sorts of games, you'll find that Omikron's action sequences ruin 
 the pacing of and heighten the frustration with what would have been better off as a more traditional 
 adventure game. In either event, you'll notice that Omikron's purported innovation and originality 
 amount to nothing more than the senseless combination of unrelated but very familiar play styles. 
 Ultimately, Omikron's interesting plot and good graphics won't save you from its misguided design. 
    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (10 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Daethar
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 4, 2009 6:52 am PT
Review:  Omikron is probably the first game with adventure, fighting and shooting parts in one, that got 
 it all right. Even though adventure part is the major one, times when you have to beat or shoot 
 your way in or out feel like everything is just where it should be. And nothing seems out of place. 
 
  From the start when you arrive in rather unusual way into the city, it makes you crave for more, 
 explore it, breathe it, live it. Considering your soul can change bodies, play style is only limited 
 by your imagination. 
  Omikron was one of the best looking games at its release with a very good soundtrack. Awesome packaging 
 to a thrilling story. Unfortunately the game was a little underappreciated. Story and gameplay 
 too complex/hard for a '99 game? I don't know.
  Steering is rather simple. Shooting sequences are as good as your reflexes are. In term of fighting 
 on the other hand I recommend taking some practice with virtual opponent at your apartment. If 
 you feel like it's still too much of a hassle, you can change difficulty of fighting sequences 
 in game.
  Puzzles/adventure part can give you some trouble only if you got used to today's many 'Give me 
 your hand and I'll get you through' simplistic titles.
  
  The Nomad Soul. Game that is my number one since it came out in 1999. Nothing sucked me in from 
 the very beginning as much as this game did. Deus Ex was very very close though.
  If you're a fan of original games, doesn't matter if it's new or very old, prepare to be amazed. 
 As this will be the adventure you will never forget. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 14neko01
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 2, 2007 2:31 am PT
Review:  Omikron: The Nomad Soul, a big innovation and revolution.
  With outstanding graphics (for these times) , great soundtrack with the collaboration of David Bowie, 
 an extremely detailed plot full of unexpected disclosures and a polychrome gameplay, I am still 
 asking to myself why it is so unappreciated.
  
  The first time I played Omikron ---next to the release date of the game --- everything was stunning, 
 from the acting to the interactions.
  There are lots of characters and locations with an unique design and the mix of action, puzzle, 
 adventure and fighting game is really engaging.
  Some finds are actually hard to find in other games --- as the transition between different bodies, 
 interactive restaurants and supermarkets, apartments to examine and many other things.
  Even if something could look old in comparison to what we have now, playing Omikron is still a 
 satisfying and amusing experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: A_FITZ
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 3, 2007 1:20 pm PT
Review:  Omikron is just superb in all the senses possible. The game combines the mechanics of distinct 
 game genres such as Adventure game, First person shooter, and Fighting game, but focuses primarily 
 on adventure gameplay, with FPS and fighting game gameplay provided in very few, but key, circumstances.
 
  
  Imagine a freeroam like GTA3 but coming out earlier in 1999 and just as good if not better. Enter 
 a world that you have always wanted to, the game you have been waiting for? Well this is it. A 
 sequel is in the making.. but if youd like to see what Omikron is all about, you should try to get 
 your hands on this.
  
  This game is rare, you might be lucky if you can still get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: otomayim
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 27, 2007 12:43 am PT
Review:  Omicron is a great title that deserves your attention. It has a few flaws that keep it back from 
 becoming an all time classic, however this was one of the most original titles of 1999. Even after 
 all these years this title has something special that makes it feel unique.
  
  The world of Omicron is amazing. The city consists of 4 huge areas, each with its own unique style 
 and architecture (+different textures and colours... keep in mind that there are a few smaller 
 areas towards the end of the game that feel totally unique) . The character models look a bit blocky 
 and aren 't that much impressive by today's standards. However the graphics were amazing for '99 
 and still hold up until today. .
  
  The first time that you 'll walk in the city of Omicron you 'll feel completely lost. It's such 
 a huge place that you'll use your map all the time. In that aspect the game reminds me a bit titles 
 like Godfather or GTA ... you are in a huge place, you see people walking and talking to each other, 
 spaceships fly above your head heavy traffic-, there are shops, different apartments and places 
 to visit etc. However -since the game came out in 1999- this title has a more simplistic approach 
 (you 'll find only one type of vehicle that can transport you in predetermined destinations -these 
 are objective related- (you can also take the control of the vehicle and go everywhere you want) 
 you won't be able to hit the pedestrians (...) , there is no heat detector, you cant shoot/fight 
 while being in adventure mode etc) .
  
  The feel of total freedom is the major benefit of the title. You can either follow your objectives 
 and advance in the game or just wander around and have a fight for money, or find a few magic rings 
 and appreciate the environment. The animation is sometimes average -as far as walking, running, 
 the FPS sequences is concerned- and some other times quite good -during the fighting sequences 
 there were a few nice moves and during the conversations the motion capture was great .
  
  The sound is really top notch. Great sound effects, very good voice acting and brilliant music 
 from David Bowie -he is in the game- that help in the creation of the out-of-this-world feeling 
 that you 'll have while you 'll be playing the title. Omicron excels in that area .
  
  As far as the gameplay in concerned there are three different modes in this title. First of all 
 is the adventuring part of it, the best aspect of the title in my opinion (searching places, finding 
 clues of what is going on, solving puzzles that require a bit of thinking, talking to characters 
 in order to find your next objective) . Then you have the fighting aspect of the game, which is 
 extremely well done and has a variation of combos and special moves. Really exciting stuff for 
 a title like this. And then there is the less spectacular FPS sequences, that feel a bit awkward 
 and are at times frustrating (they add variation to the gameplay, although they don't feel as good 
 as the rest of the title) . .
  
  The game is quite long in order to finish, it's a bit difficult (i suggest to change the difficulty 
 in both fighting and FPS elements to Easy since the game is mostly about adventuring) and has a 
 good replay value since it 'll take more than 50 hours in order to beat it. Keep in mind that you 
 can transfer your soul into another character during the game and can have more than 20 different 
 ids ,each with its own characteristics and special item (you can even visit their apartments and 
 have their equipment or even listen to their private music (?!) ...) I just wish there were more 
 special objectives and hidden missions in the title. Sometimes you feel that the world of Omicron 
 is quite empty. There are also a few problems with XP since the game froze when i used the map 
 sometimes and i also had a few camera problems (there were places where the camera changed position 
 while i was moving) . .
  
  Great atmosphere , nice scenario that is quite original -the game is a gate that transfers your 
 soul into another dimension-, brilliant music, a huge world to explore with a few gameplay problems 
 and issues, that keep the game back from becoming a masterpiece or an instant classic. If you find 
 it, buy it. It's worth your cash + it is very cheap nowadays (very original title and sth different 
 from the games that you are used of playing) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lond69
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 17, 2006 5:42 pm PT
Review:  When I first played Omikron, in a Demo, it fascinated me.. The innovations, the music, the scenario..
 
  The game is really good in all of this aspects, but the game try to be many things at the same 
 time and it end up not being the best in any of them.
  The story begins with you ending in the control of a Detective that is investigating a very strange 
 case.
  It is a fact that you has many things to do, but it just can't create the exact feeling that you 
 are free to do whatever you want.
  
  Overall, the music is good, the controls are not hard to get used to, it has graphics that should 
 be fine in the time, but in the end, it's just another game, if you like Sci-Fi, maybe it worth 
 trying, otherwise, maybe you should let this one for a rainy day ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Russini
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 9, 2006 2:52 pm PT
Review:  This game is very, old and for such age, it has exelent graphic, the gameplay is also awsome. Some 
 times I wonder how a game so old can be so good. The game has an amazing history, all makes sense 
 and you want to find more and more, and play even more. The game doesn't cause dependense... lol, 
 but it's very interesting.
  The sound is also awsome, starting by the menu music, is diabolic... apropriated, when you enter 
 a bar, or pub or even whem you chage city, the music is also apropriate and changes. The game is 
 easy, but long, you can finish it in less than two weeks.
  
  Personaly, it's one of the best games i ever played!
  
  By: Russini 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fatboyvinnie
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jul 21, 2006 6:59 am PT
Review:  Story-You play as yourself as you get a distress message from another world by a unknown person 
 who asks you to come and save their world from evil
  
  Graphics: Pros-Environments look great, weapons look cool and original, models looked good for their 
 time, other objects in the world look solid
  Cons-Some models can look a bit blocky and unrealistic (no eye movement for example)
  
  Sound: Pros-Great 
 soundtrack from David Bowie, voice acting is solid, gunfire sounds cool and futuristic
  Cons-Not enough music, a few voices sound pretty bad
  
  Game play: Fighting section: Pros-nice 
 animation, nice variety of characters to fight with
  Cons-Not enough moves to fight with, hit detection is sloppy (blatantly hitting a guy when it doesnt 
 register it)
  FPS section: Pros-nice range of Environments to shoot in and a lot of people to shoot at
  Cons-All 
 the enemies look the same, AI is decent but could of used some improvement
  Adventure section: Pros-Cities look great to just explore and find new things, lots of original cool 
 characters to interact with, puzzles are interesting
  Cons-none
  
  Replay Value: The whole game with side quests should take people about 20-30 hours to complete then 
 theres the option to play again and choose different responses to the NPC's which adds additional 
 value
  
  Overall: This game is worth it for a good story, nice graphics and a great city to explore 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LAcrima3D
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 19, 2006 10:50 am PT
Review:  I don't understand why gamespot gave such a low rating to this game, it's absolutely ridiculous.
 
  
  I know it's quite too late to write a review for a 7 years old game, but I guess it's better now 
 then never.
  
  I'd call Nomad Soul quite mystical and in some cases romantic game. It has a soul which lot of 
 (almost all actually) games leaks of it. The game is very unusual, but that makes this game unique 
 and interesting since everything is balanced quite well. 
  I personally found puzzles very interesting and very clever. This level of puzzles has not many 
 games indeed. Yeah some of them are quite tricky but they all flow on a pure logic (especially 
 you understand that after solving them =D ) . Also the idea of mixing few gameplay types went very 
 successfully in my opinion.
  Graphics are very good especially at that time (1999) it was wonderful, and honestly, it still 
 looks quite well these days. There are really very interesting concepts and design ideas.
  I enjoyed the background music so much, that these days I sometimes feel nostalgia for this game. 
 An additional ambient sounds makes the game unique. And even though I don't really like David Bowie 
 I think the virtual band in Omikron gave the breath and soul to game. This is why I love this game
 
  
  The Omikron universe has its own freedom which was a real pleasure to explore, see and hear. It 
 also has one of the greatest atmosphere, music and the whole realization. I know that this kind 
 of stuff is a personal opinion but still...
  
  I hate to give 10 to this game, because I dont really like to give such a high rating to anything, 
 but I still think it's absolutely worth it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: meg431
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 20, 2006 3:36 am PT
Review:  Sadly for this game it hasn't had many users and i dont think it ever will. I still remember reading 
 a PC magazines and accidentally stumbling upon a little review in the corner explaining what the 
 game was about and if it was worth purchasing or not. As you can read from the official GS review 
 they gave this game a really bad review which i think is really sad since its not that bad.
  
  I'll be honest and say that i still haven't finished this game, no matter what i do i find 
 myself stumbling around the different cities you get trying to find out what i must do next and 
 without a doubt i still cant pace myself to the end. Maybe they made their worlds to big and to 
 confusing for you to navigate through them or maybe your missions aren't clear enough. Whatever 
 it is this game is almost but not quite.
  
  This game has a huge amount of potential but i think the developers of this game tried to combine 
 to many game styles into one. Yes the third person is good and the graphics are something that 
 is impressive for its time but the game play is a little slow and the sound is below average. The 
 overall value of this game is something of a disappointment but yet i still find myself playing 
 this game still. Maybe its guilty pleasure or just plain fun but i should leave that decision to 
 you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nomadknightz
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 23, 2005 8:16 pm PT
Review:  Omikron is an adventure game worth playing. At first the setting and things may not seem impressive, 
 but as you learn to play through, it's great. There are loading spaces which take about a few seconds, 
 but something you can adapt to. The graphics are weak but the gameplay makes up for it. The music 
 is mostly the music of David Bowie. It is odd music, but fits into the setting of Omikron. It is 
 filled with fist fighting, shooting, strategy, and adventure. This game is worth playing. There 
 are alot of things to explore. Plus it will be good to play to get you into the sequel, Omikron 
 2. Overall, it's a good, fun game. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
