-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Once Upon a Knight
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/knightshift/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct  6, 2003
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.9
Critic Score: 6.5, 19 Review (s)
User Score: 6.6, 94 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Atari
Developer: Reality Pump
Genre: Real-Time Strategy
Date:     Sep 25, 2003 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Apart from odd attempts at humor that are hard to ignore, the story execution falls flat, the scenarios 
 are tediously scripted, and the skirmish mode is terribly limited. 

  Once Upon a Knight must have been imagined as something other than a typical real-time strategy 
 game. An obvious amount of effort went into fleshing out the RTS and RPG elements in two separate 
 modes, each with its own campaigns, but the resulting hybrid isn't a good example of either type 
 of game. Apart from odd attempts at humor that are hard to ignore, the story execution falls flat, 
 the scenarios are tediously scripted, and the skirmish mode is terribly limited.  

  The far-off, long-ago fairy-tale kingdom of Prince John is a land troubled by the despicable lord 
 Valtamand. The prince, who is naturally all things good and honorable, was kidnapped by Valtamand, 
 and that predictable premise sets up both a series of RPG scenarios in which a single adventurer 
 attempts to free him and a real-time strategy campaign that has you controlling the prince in his 
 effort to regain power after escaping. The modes are completely distinct -- like two thematically 
 similar games that happen to share the same look, monsters, and control scheme -- and if the long 
 campaigns don't happen to offer enough material, there's multiplayer support for both.  

          The three campaigns are made up of story-heavy puzzle-based missions and some large battles. 
     

  After navigating all these options at the main menu, you'll find that the real-time strategy campaign 
 has the most to offer, which isn't surprising given Reality Pump's background as the creator of 
 the Earth 2150 series. The main gimmick is that the game's economy is based on milk produced by 
 grazing cows, and for some reason, this is supposed to embody the game's overall humor. In reality, 
 it takes quite some time for the campaign to even work up to a typical base-building mission, as 
 the early chapters predominantly focus on quests for items and puzzles that most often involve 
 searching the map -- sometimes above and below ground -- for buttons to open gates. There are usually 
 enough hints in the in-engine cutscenes or the goal list so that the quests are incredibly straightforward, 
 and marks often appear on the minimap to make things even clearer.  

  These missions are typically quite short and provide more than enough time to get accustomed to 
 the controls and rotatable 3D camera. Yet, the pacing is uneven, and suddenly you're in the middle 
 of an early showdown with Valtamand in a long multipart mission. Even combat-focused scenarios 
 like this often include the largely annoying puzzle elements, though. Nevertheless, these relatively 
 action-packed missions are the best the game has to offer, and the larger battles can involve dozens 
 of units on either side. Adventuring has a number of important secondary benefits, providing ample 
 opportunity for units -- most importantly, Sir John and accompanying main characters -- to gain experience 
 and significantly upgrade their weapons and armor. When it works well, the mix of questing and 
 combat helps cover the relatively slow speed of unit and base building, something that's much more 
 apparent in skirmishes.  

  The design of the core strategy game is simplistic. Docile cows slowly graze on green patches of 
 grass, and the process can be accelerated by having a cowherd nearby, a tiny boy who can also steal 
 cows from opponents. Then there's a set of basic units, including workers, archers, spearmen, and 
 warriors, which can make up the bulk of your army as long as you create enough of the huts and 
 barracks that house them. The special units are truly a motley crew: the heavily armored knight, 
 broomstick-riding witches (the only flying unit) , and three different spellcasters. And finally, 
 there's the rolling-pin-wielding mother-in-law who can very quickly capture enemy buildings and 
 speed up workers. The spell units have some potent abilities, like the priestesses' ability to 
 convert enemy units, but they are incredibly vulnerable to normal weapons. While there's a basic 
 formation system to keep warriors in front and weaker units behind, the fact that frontline units 
 speed up, sprinting into battle, can make it difficult to keep the physically weaker units alive. 

  The main difference with the RPG mode comes in the addition of inventory and skill systems, which 
 aren't as involved as what you'd expect from a dedicated action RPG, but they do add some options 
 for developing your character as you gain experience levels. The seven characters are straight 
 out of the main game and start off weak enough that fighting packs of wolves, bears, and skeletons 
 can be a challenge even on the easier setting. Making it through solo battles means popping health 
 potions and taking advantage of the many magical health stations scattered around, but there are 
 a variety of hirelings available to help you out if you have the cash.  

  The RPG scenarios take place on dense maps packed with random encounters and villagers ready to 
 sell a variety of items and hand out quests. The obvious focus of any action RPG is on fighting 
 monsters and on building up your character, but unfortunately the game's engine is better suited 
 to RTS-style battles. A character can easily find its path from one edge of the map to the other, 
 but doesn't move responsively in close combat. Clicking on an enemy to have a spellcaster attack 
 with a lightning staff may result in the character dancing around, wasting time as a monster closes 
 in, instead of firing at the weapon's maximum distance. On the other hand, melee combat is terribly 
 automatic, so there's not much direct action. The maps are also so tightly packed -- much more than 
 the RTS maps -- that they provide little room for satisfying exploration and seem less like a part 
 of a fairy-tale world than an abstract exercise.  

          The RPG mode limits you to sending a single character through gauntlets of monsters.   
   

  Even if the story, and the long-winded cutscenes that tell it in both parts of the game, wasn't 
 dull and clich-ridden, the leaden voice acting and uneven tone would still weigh it down. 
 Most of the developer's comedic effort apparently went into writing odd things for units to say 
 as they move around the map. While Sir John is almost competently voiced, he's given odd sayings 
 like "We shall not stand for anything the enemy has to offer" and "We're just standing around and 
 time is running away," which are more nonsensical than anything. And even if these voice clips 
 don't annoy you by the end of the three main campaigns, they're rather more painful in the RPG 
 mode, since you only hear the limited selection of things one unit has to say as movement orders 
 are confirmed. By comparison, the graphics may seem quite good, particularly the water effects. 
 But even this technical proficiency is undermined by maps that just aren't very interesting to 
 look at.  

  In a fairy-tale world, Once Upon a Knight could be recommended for offering two games in one box, 
 but in reality, neither is very good. The story missions may take quite some time to play through, 
 but there's little to motivate you to do so. And even the skirmish mode, which you might expect 
 to highlight the game's strategy strengths, is hobbled by poor AI. A single computer-controlled 
 player isn't much of a challenge, and multiple CPU players will gang up on you without fighting 
 each other. Furthermore, at this time, it's quite difficult to find anyone to play a multiplayer 
 game with on the Earthnet matchmaking service. It's hard to find any part of the game that's truly 
 entertaining.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (1 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: vastb005
Rating: 3
Date: Oct 21, 2004 12:22 pm PT
Review:  The idea of a game where you could choose RPG or strategy was what first drew my attention to the 
 game and I was expecting great things. Unfortunately it fell flat on its face. With a learning 
 curve of two minutes, and very simplistic gameplay, I felt I had accidentally picked up a game 
 for the under 9 year olds. 
  
  No great storyline, no redeeming humour, despite a difficulty setting only easy fighting in RPG 
 mode and a very poor and uninteresting strategy mode.
  
  If you are looking for an RPG intro for your 6 year old this would be it. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
