-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: One Must Fall: Battlegrounds
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/onemustfallbattlegrounds/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec 22, 2003
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.1
Critic Score: 6.0, 17 Review (s)
User Score: 7.1, 112 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Diversions Entertainment
Genre: 3D Fighting
Date:     Dec 19, 2003
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
There certainly isn't anything else out there that's quite like it, so fans of other fighting games 
 should give it a look. 

  Unfortunately, the PC doesn't see many original fighting games. Though it's received a handful 
 of ports over the years, most of the attempts to bring original Street Fighter-style action to 
 the home computer have been total failures. One of the lone standouts is the 1993 release of One 
 Must Fall 2097, a robot fighting game that followed the Street Fighter concept by presenting the 
 action from a side view and giving each robot a handful of special attacks. It moved well, contained 
 a good variety of characters and options, and was generally fun to play. Now, a decade later and 
 after years of prerelease chatter, Diversions Entertainment has finally released a follow-up with 
 One Must Fall: Battlegrounds. This new One Must Fall attempts to stay in the fighting genre while 
 also presenting a free-roaming, fully 3D game for up to 16 players. It's a fun take on the fighting 
 genre -- once you manage to familiarize yourself with the controls -- but some of its radical ideas 
 work better than others.  

          One Must Fall: Battlegrounds is a pretty unique take on the standard fighting game concept. 
     

  Battlegrounds puts you in command of a pilot character that controls a giant fighting robot via 
 a neural link. Apparently, this brand of robot fighting has become a popular sport in the future, 
 so your pilot will have no shortage of opponents to face in a handful of different tournament settings. 
 While the single-player game attempts to convey a bit of story here and there, it's mostly limited 
 to some prematch chatter from the other pilots. Each pilot is rated in four different categories. 
 However, the real difference is in the robots themselves.  

  One Must Fall gives you eight different robots to choose from. Each has its own set of strikes 
 and special attacks. Additionally, each robot has at least one projectile attack, and, fortunately, 
 the game has a pretty good aiming system to help you fire your blasts accurately. The game also 
 has its fair share of rising and dashing attacks, and each robot features a few different superattacks, 
 for good measure. The use of these superattacks are governed by an energy meter that fills as you 
 play. Most of the superattacks are just pumped-up versions of your robot's special moves, though. 
 Battlegrounds uses six buttons in all, one for each of your robot's limbs, one for jumping, and 
 one for evading. Since the game takes place in a fully 3D arena that lets you roam around at will, 
 the evade button is incredibly handy. The robots don't turn very quickly, and you don't have the 
 ability to execute side or rear attacks, so using the evade button to roll out of the way or to 
 perform backflips is key to dodging attacks and preventing enemies from sneaking up behind you 
 while you're attacking another opponent.  

  The centerpieces to a fighting game's longevity are its balance and the depth of its combo system. 
 The various robots seem pretty balanced, though some of the robots can get a little more combo-crazy 
 than others, especially in some of the game's walled arenas. The game's combo system is very focused 
 on pop-up attacks and juggles. A handful of the game's regular moves will pop a target up into 
 the air. From that point, you can swipe at them while they're coming down and get in a few extra 
 hits. Some robots, like the Katana, have a rising attack that will launch an opponent into the 
 air. The Katana travels up with the enemy robot, and once you come out of the striking animation, 
 you can land a few extra hits. You can even combo some of these moves into and out of supermoves. 
 All in all, One Must Fall's combo system isn't the deepest in the world, but rather than stick 
 to a somewhat rigid system of canned combos, it goes for a slightly more free-form feel that lets 
 you try out new things.  

  Though the game has a good deal of single-player tournament options and various difficulty levels 
 to choose from, fighting game AI only goes so far. Competitive multiplayer is where the genre gets 
 most of its replay value. As mentioned, One Must Fall: Battlegrounds contains online multiplayer 
 for up to 16 players. When the players all have good, fast connections to the server, this works 
 fine. However, trying to fight a laggy player isn't any fun at all. Your hits don't land, the other 
 fighter skips around the arena, and so on. The game has two multiplayer modes. Last man standing 
 gives the last remaining player in a round one point, and play continues until a point limit is 
 reached. In demolition, you earn points for causing damage, and the game ends when a point total 
 has been reached. Both games can also be played in team variants.  

  One Must Fall's robots look pretty nice, though the game doesn't do a very good job of conveying 
 the supposedly gigantic size of the fighters. The arenas come in various shapes and sizes, and 
 some of these look good, as well. However, the animation leaves a bit to be desired. For example, 
 you'll execute the same attacks regardless of your posture. So, if you're running and hit an attack 
 button, you don't get any sort of running attack. Instead, your robot just plants its feet and 
 goes through the same attack animation that it would if you were standing still. A lot of the basic 
 walking and movement animations aren't very good, either.  

  Basically, the game really lacks polish from start to finish, from the menus to the generic-looking 
 particle effects. The game is also pretty processor-intensive. Though the listed requirements aren't 
 terribly steep, the frame rate is pretty jumpy on systems that are well beyond the 1 GHz recommended 
 processor. When we moved it up to a Radeon 9800 Pro and a 3 GHz processor, the game ran very smoothly 
 at the default 800x600 resolution, but moving the resolution up much higher than that had a noticeable 
 impact on the frame rate. The game actually looks decent at 800x600, though, so this isn't that 
 much of a problem.  

          The game's lack of polish gives it a feel that's reminiscent of its shareware roots.   
   

  Battlegrounds' sound also could have helped convey the size of the robots by using loud, bass-heavy 
 footsteps, but the game unfortunately doesn't have anything like that. Most of the sound effects 
 consist of pretty uneventful metal-on-metal clanks and crashes, as well as your standard laser 
 and projectile effects. The music consists of a bunch of upbeat melodic tracks that sound like 
 they were ripped out of the Amiga demo scene. As a whole, the game's sound gives the game a sort 
 of throwback feel that's indicative of its decade-old roots.  

  One Must Fall: Battlegrounds is a pretty unique take on the fighting genre. There's definitely 
 something to it, but not all of its concepts hit the mark just right. For instance, the game would 
 have been better if the robots had back attacks or other, better options to prevent enemies from 
 getting behind them. Regardless, there certainly isn't anything else out there that's quite like 
 it, so fans of other fighting games should give it a look.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (5 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: steelsoldier666
Rating: 6.9
Date: Apr 29, 2007 10:09 am PT
Review:  If they added a career/rpg mod like the first one must fall this game would be a blast, mainly 
 the one must fall 2097 was awesome, i loved the rpg mod, but they didnt introduce in this game now, 
 why not?
  They could have made a lot of stuff in this game, but the only thing they did was increase the 
 quality and forgot the innovation of the rpg mod in the game, if they added putted in it it would 
 be much better, the game starts loosing interest in a few hours, maybe its my fault that i am a 
 rpg fan but this is the only score they are getting from me 
::::::

::::::
UserName: acountddd
Rating: 6.6
Date: Oct 3, 2006 9:30 pm PT
Review:  Ok people are going overboard with this game. I just bought this game at the warehouse for $10 
 (NZD) . It is indeed a unique game and first of it's kind but alot of refining is needed. The hits 
 are awkward and the overall movement feels very limited, you look around with the arrow buttons 
 so turning around takes quite a while if you get attacked from behind. The graphics are old so 
 they are acceptable but the animations feels tuned down, the movements aren't very fluid but I 
 can imagine the difficulty of making very fluid animations in a game like this. Overall this is 
 a game enjoyed by either gaming newbies or very specific gamers, hardcore and experienced gamers 
 probably won't like this game. Props for the idea though, a sequel might do well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: elliott78212
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 28, 2006 2:42 am PT
Review:  I just built a low cost gaming pc and was in a local thrift store saw this for less than a dollar 
 .... it was worth every penny even at full price what a game. I am not one who likes using to many 
 keyboard controls and this was has precious few and just enough to advance you through the game. 
 Incredible 3D graphics finally something put my Nvidia 5200 256mb card to work for sure. Most important 
 feature auto updating patching feature at start up. I am mostly a noob when it comes to games so 
 this was really up there with my other favorite games AOE III, and Fantastic Four. Create your 
 character and start slugging away. Each character is unique and has its own specially type of powers. 
 You will enjoy this . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Furious1116
Rating: 5.8
Date: Mar 14, 2004 5:18 pm PT
Review:  A bit too overrated... OMF: BG spent years and years in development, submerged in hype which was 
 exploded by fans. OMF: BG is a very basic fighting game that's prime component is its ability to 
 be played online. You can unlock many different pilots for the robots by playing through the single 
 player mode. There are multiple paintjobs for all the 'bots depending on the pilot you choose as 
 well. Overall, the game is just not that great. There is no strategy or skill involved... it's a 
 straight beat'em up hack-and-slash button masher game that anyone with quickfingers could master. 
 Worse yet, it does not support any gamepads, making the controls awkward and clunky. The graphics 
 are average, not making use of any of today's technology. The animations are stiff and awkward, 
 and the sound is rather dull. This game was silently ushered into stores barely 48 hours before 
 Christmas, with virtually no publicity or any indication of its release. The legions of fans that 
 somehow built up around it, when they had never played it before, have stuck with it and love it. 
 I continue to play it from time to time, though I am not impressed by it at all. Since fighting 
 games never come to the PC, it was nice to play a fighting game, even if OMF: BG, in my opinion, 
 barely qualifies as a typical 'fighter'. The massive online battles are fun but get stale kind 
 of quick. If you really enjoy this type of gaming then you should like OMF: BG, but don't expect 
 it to live up the unbeleivable hype that's surrounded it for the past 2 or 3 years. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tagan02
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 19, 2003 10:36 am PT
Review:  One Must Fall is the first game of his kind, not only is it the first fighting game on the computer 
 that has been released in years, but it's the first fighting game that allows more then 2 people 
 in one arena, up to 16 people can fight at once in one single arena, which opens up a whole new 
 dimension to the fighting genre.
  
  There is 8 Robots and 50 pilots, Robots stats are pre-set, but the pilots cause the robot stats 
 to differ greatly depending on who you choose.
  
  Overall this game is awesome, no current fighting game expect maybe Soul Calibur can touch it. 
 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
