-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Oni
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/oni/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jan 17, 2001
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.9
Critic Score: 7.6, 42 Review (s)
User Score: 8.1, 849 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Gathering
Developer: Bungie Software
Genre: Beat-'Em-Up
Date:     Jan 28, 2001 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Oni features fluid, dynamic animation, some exciting combat sequences, and a fairly involving story 
 that links everything together. However, it suffers from a few very noticeable problems. 

 Oni is a single-player third-person action game from Bungie Software, which is best known for 
 its Myth real-time strategy series, as well as its old Marathon first-person shooters. Oni is certainly 
 a departure for the popular developer, which was recently acquired by Microsoft. Though die-hard 
 fans might catch a rare reference to Bungie's other games in Oni, the game has nothing in common 
 with any of its predecessors. Instead, its influences can be clearly traced to Japanese science-fiction-themed 
 animated films and series, such as Ghost in the Shell, Akira, and Bubblegum Crisis, as well as 
 Japanese 3D fighting games such as Tekken and Virtua Fighter. The game stays true to its roots: 
 It features fluid, dynamic animation, some exciting combat sequences, and a fairly involving story 
 that links everything together. However, Oni suffers from a few very noticeable problems and several 
 smaller ones, which all serve to prevent the game from being entirely successful or enjoyable. 
   

  During the course of the game, you play as Konoko, a young woman with purple hair and a mysterious 
 past. She is an expert in martial arts and is also proficient with various firearms, and you'll 
 have to guide her through more than a dozen levels filled with treacherous enemy fighters who lie 
 in ambush around virtually every corner. The game's story unfolds mostly through text memos you 
 find, as well as dialogue in brief cutscenes that usually occur at the beginning and end of each 
 mission. The dialogue is accompanied by close-up portraits of the characters doing the talking. 
 These are generally well drawn, and the voice acting (which is in English) is generally convincing, 
 such that you get a fairly good sense of the characters' distinct personalities. Even so, it's 
 disappointing that both the hand-drawn character close-ups and the 3D character models themselves 
 are so static. Neither the portraits nor the 3D characters' faces are animated, which can be distracting 
 since many other games already feature 3D characters that are much more articulate or that at least 
 move their mouths and blink their eyes. Nevertheless, some of the more action-packed cutscenes 
 can be quite entertaining.   

  The game's animation is much more impressive during the actual combat sequences. Konoko realistically 
 dashes around, backpedals, flips, leaps, punches, kicks, blocks, and more. Some of her more difficult 
 combat moves, such as brutal backbreaker and a spinning chokehold that leaves the enemy slumping 
 to the ground with a sprained neck, look great. Likewise, her enemies move about believably for 
 the most part, and they will even sometimes stop to taunt Konoko in battle. Actually, these enemy 
 characters often look much better than Konoko. Many of the enemies are wearing full suits of shiny, 
 metallic battle armor, and since they're also typically wearing helmets or masks, you won't be 
 distracted when they don't wince as you're beating them up. But Konoko's static facial features 
 and her blocky, metallic-looking hair don't come across very well, although at least you'll see 
 her wearing several different outfits over the course of the game, for variety's sake. The game 
 has a few nice visual effects, most notably how large panes of glass shatter dramatically when 
 hit by errant gunfire; but Oni also has a few graphical glitches, like defeated enemies that tend 
 to clip straight through nearby walls and obstacles. There's a good variety of different enemies 
 to fight, and you'll even notice that similar categories of foes still have several variations 
 in stature and uniform color. Even so, you'll quickly find that most of the enemy characters in 
 Oni use the same exact combat moves on you, not to mention the same exact fighting styles. So, 
 regardless of their subtly different appearances or the difficulty you'll have in beating them, 
 you'll find that most of the combat with enemy fighters maintains a fairly consistent form.   

 
  Fortunately, this form is quite good, though it can be very challenging. The game's default controls 
 let you move Konoko with the keyboard, as well as look around, turn, and attack with the mouse. 
 You can change these controls if you edit a configuration file in the game's directory, but the 
 default setup is actually ideal once you get used to it. Even so, it is surprising that the game 
 doesn't offer a more convenient means of configuring your controls, and it is still more surprising 
 that the game doesn't support PC-compatible gamepads, especially since the game was developed simultaneously 
 for the PlayStation 2 console. Nevertheless, once you remember the key layout, you'll find that 
 you can make Konoko move about and attack with finesse.   

  You'll need all the finesse you can muster as you try to take on the superior enemy odds and firepower 
 you'll face throughout the game. Typically, you'll come across between one and three or four opponents 
 at a time. One or more of these will probably be toting a gun. There's no good way to avoid enemy 
 gunfire except to keep moving, so you'll learn to either make a beeline for the gun-toting assailants 
 or to fall back and lure them around corners. Your enemies are very aggressive, and they will always 
 come at you - so you can often help even the odds by using defensive tactics and environmental 
 obstacles. At least you can relieve your foes of their weapons fairly easily once you get up close, 
 and you can use these and whatever limited ammunition they have remaining to your advantage. Oni 
 actually features a rather diverse and interesting variety of weapons. The arsenal includes conventional 
 pistols and submachine guns, as well as stronger plasma and beam weapons, an incredibly powerful 
 grenade launcher, and a very deadly sniper rifle weapon that must spend several seconds freezing 
 over between firing its chilling mercury bolts. Unfortunately, there are no melee weapons in Oni, 
 and though the ranged weapons are interesting, they do start to get repetitive toward the end of 
 the game.    

 Oni gives a good, clear indication of what's happening in combat. The collision detection is convincing 
 - your punches and kicks register as you'd expect them to, and hard-hitting sound effects help 
 get the point across - and after each successful hit, you'll see brightly colored sparks, which 
 correspond with how much vitality the character on the receiving end has remaining. As the hit 
 sparks go from green to yellow to red, you'll know that your enemy is getting weaker. Likewise, 
 the game's minimal onscreen interface provides a useful indication of how much ammo you have remaining 
 in whatever weapon you're carrying (if any) , how many spare ammo clips and health power-ups you 
 have, and where you're supposed to go next. This compass feature is very handy - it tells you the 
 general direction you should be headed, but also whether your next destination is above or below 
 your current position. The availability of this information is justified in the game, and, likewise, 
 at certain key points in the story, this information is taken away from you, which makes for an 
 interesting twist.   

  Unfortunately, Oni doesn't have very many interesting twists to speak of, because although virtually 
 all its levels are quite long, virtually all are also very similar. For the most part, they're 
 also similarly bland, even though their pacing occasionally picks up when Oni's effective techno 
 soundtrack kicks in at specific times. Most of the levels simply consist of gigantic, nearly empty 
 rectangular rooms, separated by corridors, smaller rooms, and staircases. Some of the levels are 
 noticeably better, such as an early stage in which you must fight through a civilian airport under 
 siege; however, most of the other levels take place in bases, hideouts, factories, offices, industrial 
 facilities, and so forth. The layout of all these levels - even the more interesting ones - necessarily 
 relies on Konoko's having to use computer terminals to unlock doors. Later in the game, you'll 
 encounter doors that require not one but three terminal switches to be opened. In between the locked 
 doors, you'll invariably take a beating, and to make up for this, you'll need to locate health 
 hypos that restore some of your health. These are either dropped by fallen foes or found in not-very-well-hidden 
 corners. Or they are given to you by civilians. Likewise, the few power-ups in Oni consist of ammo 
 clips, a rare invisibility item that's practically useless because of its short duration, and a 
 lifesaving energy shield that protects you from weapon fire. Besides the invisibility, you will 
 find all of these fairly often and will come to rely on them along with the health hypos and computer 
 terminals.   

  Oni's rare attempts at gameplay twists - including an occasional jumping sequence, the rare opportunity 
 to try a stealthy approach, and the necessity for some fancy footwork in avoiding infrared tripwires 
 - all fall flat. The infrared tripwires trigger static defenses to start firing on you, which in 
 most cases isn't much of a problem since you can simply outrun the attacks. Stealth is totally 
 unnecessary in Oni, though if you can muster enough patience to creep up to an unsuspecting foe, 
 you might be able to lay him out before he can retaliate. The jumping sequences in Oni are frustrating, 
 because it takes a moment for Konoko to get up to a running start, and, unlike most other leading 
 characters in third-person action games, she can't grab onto ledges if she falls short. These jumping 
 sequences can be even harder to deal with because you can't save your progress whenever you want 
 to. Instead, the game automatically and instantly saves your progress at anywhere between two and 
 four specific points during a level. It can take a long time to get from one save point to the 
 next - and, usually, there's an especially tough battle right before each one. So, invariably, 
 you'll end up having to replay many sequences multiple times, until you finally figure out a pattern 
 for getting through. Even then, you might be forced to restore earlier saves - because if you reach 
 a save point with low health, you'll be out of luck when you try to proceed.   

  Though three different difficulty levels are available, the uninspired layout of the levels and 
 the fairly redundant action all mean that there's not much point in replaying Oni once you finish 
 it. Chances are you'll be more than weary of the action in the game by the drawn-out finale. Though 
 Konoko has many different fighting moves, as well as a few keen tricks (like being able to snatch 
 up dropped weapons and items during a roll) , you'll probably find yourself relying on the same 
 few moves throughout the game and, rarely, if ever, using the others. The game's few one-on-one 
 battles between Konoko and a powerful boss character are tedious, as it's only a matter of time 
 before you find a simple pattern to win these bouts. Even the plot in Oni could have been better, 
 as the story starts to allude to a darker side of Konoko's character, which unfortunately isn't 
 properly explained or justified by the end of the game. And, so, besides a few interesting sequences 
 and a whole lot of fights, there really isn't much to the game. Oni has no multiplayer mode, nor 
 does it offer any kind of skirmish option that could let you get to the heart of the game and simply 
 have at it against one or more enemies. Once you finish the game, it does give access to some interesting 
 cheat codes, which let you play as different characters and more, but these are mostly for novelty. 
   

  In the end, Oni is a fairly plain third-person action game that contains a more robust combat system 
 than those found in most similar games. Its graphics, particularly the environments' graphics, 
 aren't noteworthy, and its story isn't fully developed. Yet, despite these shortcomings, along 
 with the game's lack of a convenient save system and the absence of a multiplayer option, Oni will 
 still appeal to players who like the material that inspired the game. If nothing else, these players 
 would be hard pressed to find any other recent PC game that's influenced by Japanese science fiction. 
    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (30 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: KingLim
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 29, 2008 11:18 pm PT
Review:  This manga-inspired game features well-designed combat moves and equally great PC controls to execute 
 that with. The overall game response and maneuverability makes it a good title to engage in, just 
 that the game aesthetics itself seems a little oddly old-school arcadish. Actually, it really tests 
 your arcade reflexes with its 3rd person Halo cum Tekken gameplay style.
  
  As you play, you will find that your character darts around like a hornet which sometimes makes 
 you hard to focus your attacks on the enemies, whom are very tough throughout the game. The shooting 
 feature also seems a little broken with its limited firearms resources. And a lot of times, you 
 may be frustrated by the sheer difficulty of the game either due to stupendously limited firepower 
 or the ridiculous number of enemies you have to fight. Actually for me, this game is punishingly 
 hard and the day I completed it, I feel like I've finished my National Service in the army.
  
  KingLim 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FEPowered390
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 7, 2008 6:50 pm PT
Review:  Oni is a game in which I decided to play 7 years after it's release. The first thing I noticed 
 was it's terrible graphics. For being released in 2001, you would have expected much, much better. 
 In fact, what you get is Quake 2 graphics, which is quite displeasing. in fact, I would say WORSE 
 than Quake 2 graphics.
  
  The gameplay mechanics are actually the best part of the game. It's some-what sloppy, but it's 
 extremely fluent and mildly fun utilizing combos.
  
  Knowing Bungie, you are not going to get a free saving system. Some of the way the save points 
 are laid out in the later levels are just too difficult. I was never able to finish this game because 
 of this. There is no point in spending time in a "C" game trying to get to the next save point.
 
  
  The story is rather bland, poorly narrated, and doesn't relate very well to the gamer. A lot of 
 information you get are from computer terminals. Like Marathon, most of the game is told through 
 text, which isn't the best way to tell a story.
  
  I played this game with a Macintosh G4. Everything seemed to work o. k. Sometimes, the mouse would 
 not respond in the time of need, which was a disturbance just about every time.
  
  I will say that I enjoyed this game more than Marathon. But it's just a budget game to say the 
 least. A flawed budget game actually. Some reviewers are giving this game a 9.0 and above, which 
 is completely off-base for what this game really should get. 
  
  There is no multiplayer. The title screens are ridiculous. Bungie uses the same 220 x 110 or whatever 
 size to fill up a little blimp on your screen using lowwwww resolution art, just like in Marathon. 
 It's just plainly apparent not much time and effort went into this title. 
  
  If Bungie had somehow added graphical enhancements, story enchancements, along with a free saving 
 system (or more realistic and doable save-points) , this game could have been a "decent" game, though 
 it's still nothing to brag about.
  
  Oni is seriously flawed in several areas, although it contains some good elements.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rkttTPmbysS
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 9, 2007 1:59 pm PT
Review:  When you ask someone about "Oni" you typically will hear "what?" is that a japanese game, comic 
 or some other form. However it is a game with an enduring and captivating storyline from and unusual 
 orgin of the main character to the defeat of an unexpected villain. Truly a remarkable game by 
 the same creators of Halo.
  
  Graphics are well established with few glitches in regards to camera angle. The one downfall is 
 that you do see repeated textures and objects throughout the game. Fortunately as other reviews 
 have stated in addition to my own. The levels are of a size that you disregard the graphical aspect 
 of it and focus on where you can go. 
  
  The gameplay is fun. After a very explanatory (and Narrated) tutorial you are sent through to play 
 a "mission" As you "level" through the game you learn more special moves and techniques that can 
 be used anytime depending the postion or aspect of your cahracter or the enemies. There is no requirement 
 for you to have a certain "power usage bar" in addition the use of weapons is made available. These 
 weapons have a limited number of times they can be shot or activated, however you will find them 
 throughout the game as enemies will drop them.
  
  Basically this is a game of hand to hand fighting mixed with a 3rd person shooter. It requires 
 more strategy than most, and makes it hard to just "run and and shoot things" And well balanced 
 game which have played through many times over the last few years.
  
  On a side note and disappointing note, it does require extra effort to work well on Windows XP 
 (not entirely sure about Vista) . Nor has anyone ffound a way to make work and run with Widescreen.
 
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aap14
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 4, 2007 3:25 pm PT
Review:  Oni is definitely worth more than the 6.9 rated by gamespot.
  Sure, it might be a bit difficult to get used to combat system, but when you do, you'll find beating 
 up opponents of an ever-growing level of ominousity is extremely satisfying. The game's checkpoint 
 system is not there to necessarily punish, but to force the player to get the most out of the game.
 
  It is true that Konoko's character model might look a bit bland, but you'll find it surprisingly 
 undisturbing even if you're not a fan of anime - the combat is what counts. And yes, the enemies 
 can look quite scary, especially after you've just had a tough time with let's say, four of the 
 weaker enemies, you haven't reached the next checkpoint yet - and you find two muscular guys wearing 
 ominous black armor blocking your way to the exit. It's these kind out situations that will get 
 the player to respect the game and ultimately - increase the respect the player has for his/herself 
 as well. 
  The story is ok, the bosses aren't especially well-done and the environments are the way they are 
 so you wouldn't have to worry about too much distracting detail on-screen while you're serving 
 a can of whoop-a**. 
  Overall, please play this game - Bungie had it good before Halo as well ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Karma_Slave
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 2, 2007 11:54 pm PT
Review:  Oni is a third-person action game, sort of a mix of fighting-games and ordinary action games, because 
 most combat is melee based. You gain more and more melee moves as you progress in the game, from 
 simpler kicks and punches and disarm moves, to more advanced moves like the always as pretty devil 
 spin kick and rising fury , and a move where you run towards an enemy, grab his neck and swing 
 around him, breaks the neck and continue on your merry way. Huge levels, different weapons, shields, 
 and lots of baddies to slap. I've personally had many mental orgasms when engaging 4-5 baddies 
 unarmed, and come out without a scratch. One backbreaker there, pick up that baddie and throw him 
 into his friends, slap someone, etc. But of course, it's equally possible that you'll fail miserably. 
 Oni is a difficult game, and it's easy to die.
  
  Yes, the game is starting to get a little old now, but this is one of my all time favorites. Deep 
 story with serious twists here and there, lots of background information about the mysterious super-corporation 
 driven sci-fi world you're in by accessing terminals here and there, and a nicely balanced mix 
 of melee and firearms combat.
  
  Of course, the game's weapons seem almost all like tools for melee combat, such as my favorite 
 weapon, the Van Der Graf pistol that stuns all enemies in front of you for a short amount of time 
 - just enough for you to get in there behind then and do the always wonderful back-breaker move. 
 If you prefer to run around killing everything with weapons, then Oni is probably not for you. 
 You probably could do it, if you wanted, but as you can only carry one weapon at a time and easily 
 lose it if disarmed by an opponent in melee, you must at some point slap some behinds with your 
 fists and feet.
  
  While the graphics suffer some, I admit, with large open and often freakishly empty areas and textures, 
 it's all absurdely pulled up by the attention to detail. Some smoke coming out from a vent, not 
 to mention the ambient sounds from the city and the music, air planes slowly drawing lines in the 
 sky, the smattering sound of a plasma shot hitting a wall. The sound in Oni is superior to many 
 of today's similar games, with good voice acting (a bit overdramatic at times, but still) and lots 
 of barks from enemies. It feels like you're fighting annoying people and not just lifeless drones.
 
  
  There is an interesting cheat mode in Oni that lets you play as -any- of the characters currently 
 on the same level as you. That means that you'll turn into any of those characters and get their 
 attributes and attacks, which gives new life to the game once you've finished it.
  
  Personally, I've played Oni so many times now that its' charm has started to fade some, I admit. 
 I'm starting to see what it lacks more now, such as a multiplayer mode, versus or cooperative. 
 I'd love to see Bungie building upon their Oni-verse soon and give us a game with finely balanced 
 melee and firearm combat, with multiplayer support. Perhaps, since Oni agents are mentioned in 
 the world of Halo, they can make some sort of spin-off of Halo where you play one of these agents. 
 Or maybe Oni agents are something totally different, just with the same name... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: majesticcryx
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 4, 2007 4:40 pm PT
Review:  Ever since the wide-eyed weekend we all first drank in The Matrix, theres officially been nothing 
 cooler than a sleek, latex-clad martial arts display. When we first got a glimpse of Oni, a game 
 that promised a multiplayer chop-sockin romp through a techno future, we immediately flagged it 
 as one of our most eagerly-anticipated games in development.
  
  So now that its here, I cant help but be a bit disappointed. Oni is a fun game with just enough 
 style and action to keep it on its feet. But after three years in development, the games promising 
 multiplayer component was abandoned and its nothing like the whirlwind of goodness we were hoping 
 for.
  
  Oni winds up as a fast-paced third-person combination of kung fu, gunplay, and anime. You play 
 as Konoko, a brainy battlin babe molded from the same cast as the heroine of Ghost In The Shell. 
 Konokos father was a brilliant scientist and political activist who was tragically forced to euthanize 
 his wife as part of questionable experiments. It should come as no surprise that Konoko decides 
 justice has gotta get served.
  
  The bulk of the game is spent steering Konoko through the glossy confines of futuristic facilities 
 and urbanscapes, running, jumping, tumbling, rolling, and crawling through the future-noir environs. 
 Oh, and stompin a lot of ass as well, courtesy of an elaborate hand-to-hand fighting system.
 
  
  The real fun lies in beating the tarnation out of an endless series of thugs, ninjas, and terrorists. 
 Once youve adapted to the keyboard setup theres a good variety of martial arts combos and throws 
 to perfect, and theres nothing more satisfying than cracking some punk in two with a well-timed 
 backbreaker.
  
  But in addition to dropping perps on their heads, Konoko can use a variety of guns. Shooting at 
 long range is handled pretty well in the third-person gameplay, using laser sights for most targeting 
 (be quick to grab guns, though, since some weapons will simply disappear if you let them sit on 
 the ground for too long.) Konoko can only carry one gun at a time, which seems annoying at first, 
 but it rightly forces you to rely on fists more than your trigger finger.
  
  Beyond the beatings, though, there isnt too much to get excited about. Developed simultaneously 
 for the PC, Mac, and the PlayStation 2, Oni makes too many concessions to the console. In an astonishing 
 oversight, there is no way to reconfigure the controls through the menu -- although it is possible 
 to edit a text file in the Oni directory. Nor is there a way to adjust the mouse sensitivity, or, 
 strangely, to play with a gamepad.
  
  But the most egregious mistake is the lack of in-game saves. Recent PC games like Ground Control, 
 Giants, and Hitman have all ignored in-game saves to their detriment, and Oni pulls the same bone-headed 
 design limitation.
  
  The problem is inflamed by tedious jumping puzzles, which force you to leap over lasers or suffer 
 instant death. Many levels have to be played over and over again until a combination of luck and 
 skill gets you to the next in-mission set save point.
  
  But making it to that next save wont guarantee a fresh experience around the next corner: Oni 
 is disappointingly redundant. Throughout the 15 levels, you only do two things: search for consoles 
 that will unlock doors, and beat up the thugs who get in the way. Only one level, which takes place 
 entirely in Konokos mind, shows any real imagination, and its over too quickly. If youve played 
 the demo, youve pretty much experienced Onis entire spectrum of gameplay.
  
  Theres also a general lack of inspiration in level design and graphics. Bungies designers were 
 apparently influenced by the radical designs of shoeboxes, straws, and icecube trays, as Oni consists 
 almost entirely of big boxes connected to little boxes by tubes. Warehouses, hangars, offices, 
 and labs all offer silent testimony to the grandeur of the rectangle.
  
  Further adding to the sameness of it all is the repeated tiling of certain textures. Because so 
 much of the game takes place in pretty bland environments like offices and labs, its not surprising 
 to find the same blue/gray surfaces everywhere. But too much of the world is utterly empty, with 
 no feeling of being inhabited by people. There are no restrooms, cafeterias, or lounges to suggest 
 that Konokos world is populated by anyone other than her and a few thugs; its a sad ballad of 
 Oni the Lonely.
  
  To be fair, however, there is a certain minimalist charm at work. Konoko is nicely modeled and 
 wonderfully animated, as are most of the villains. When you punch an enemy, the colorful explosions 
 not only tell you how much energy they have left, but add some much needed pyrotechnics While most 
 anime overwhelms the viewer with the sheer amount of visual detail, Oni goes in the opposite direction, 
 and at times the starkness can be pretty cool.
  
  An excellent techno soundtrack helps get you into the story. When the action picks up, so does 
 the music, with an appropriately futuristic beat that throbs and pulses with a great bass line. 
 All the voice acting is first-rate, although during the in-game cinematics the models just bob 
 their heads without moving their mouths.
  
  Oni benefits from the fact that it doesnt have a whole lot of competition on the PC. Sure, Lara 
 has a ton more moves, but not even Heavy Metals Julie can kick butt like Konoko. Its the basic 
 thrill of delivering a spinning roundhouse to some suckers jaw that ultimately saves Oni, and 
 also makes the lack of multiplayer all the more disappointing. And because the levels all walk 
 the straight and narrow, theres little reason to replay the game once youve beaten it.
  
  Oni couldve been one for the ages, and its disappointing to see a talented developer like Bungie 
 take so long to turn out such an ordinary product. Lack of in-game saves is annoying enough, but 
 combining it with tiresome jumping puzzles is a very bad idea that should be consigned to the graveyard 
 of vanilla boot disks and side-scrolling games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Delta222
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 13, 2007 10:49 pm PT
Review:  A lot of negative reviews are made because of the environments and their vast emptiness. If you're 
 down rating this game for that you're missing the point entirely. This game is about combat. The 
 first trailers showed what Konoko (the lead character) is capable of: kicking major butt (damn 
 censorship) . The fights make this game, and holy crap are they numerous and fun. It looks fine 
 by today's standards, but graphics were never everything. Sound is good, blah blah. My only gripe 
 is the absence of stealth (kinda lacking, but oh well) .
  
  Try the game again, you'll reconsider if you know good gaming when you play it.
  
  This game 
 is the last worthwhile adventure from Bungie. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NitroDriven
Rating: 7.8
Date: Apr 11, 2007 3:56 pm PT
Review:  In terms of gameplay, Oni is one of the funnest games out there. There are lots of interesting 
 martial arts, weapons and enemies to fight and the storyline itself is great. The character design 
 is fabulous. Konoko looks awesome and so do the other characters. The dialog is somwhat believable. 
 Overall kicking the crap out of the bad dudes in 1000 different ways and unlocking even better 
 moves as you progress is something you never quite get sick of.
  
  The level design nearly killed an otherwise great game. Environments are waaay to big for their 
 own good, and so bland and tasteless that it almost hurts the eyes. The textures are terribly pixelated 
 and squarish. They might as well throw you into an airplane hangar the size of a football field 
 with nothing but gray walls and a gray ceiling, point you to a panel hidden somewhere, which opens 
 a poorly designed door to yet another bland room the size of a football field. Come on! Bungie 
 could have put more effort in designing. The sheer size of these tasteless levels also calls for 
 A LOT of running. More often that not, you scram to one side of a level, kicking the crap out of 
 anyone in your way only to find a locked door, which means you have to run alllllll the way to 
 the other side of the level, find a stupid panel to unlock that stupid door and run allllll the 
 way back. More action, less running please!
  
  Oni is a great game in it's own right, despite a few flaws here and there. if you don't mind a 
 few hick-ups here and there, you will have a blast playing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yamoon_tak
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 5, 2007 2:04 pm PT
Review:  i hated the score gs gave the game, that was the most game me n my friends enjoyed playin' back 
 in 2000, in the game u play in 14 levels of varied sizes, there are several ballistic and energy 
 cell weapons, including handguns, rifles, and rocket launchers, and mostly it has one of the best 
 hand to hand fightin' systems i ever encountered, one of the best gameplay at the time and kind 
 of intelligent AI, although no the best... and it's really fun, but now there are too many games 
 with better graphics, more complicated gameplay, still i u'd have loved the game back then, i give 
 it a 10!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frag_1
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 16, 2007 12:29 am PT
Review:  Its a super RPG with fantastic gameplay and combination attacks. The game is one of the first games 
 by Bungie and even though it isn't just as popular as its other games, yet it's still quite good.
 
  
  In the game, we play a TCTF operative, Konoko, who has a very secretive past which she doesn't 
 know about. The story starts with her starting training and us, learning the basics of the game. 
 The game starts becoming very interesting with the advent of the missions. The first few missions 
 help us getting the hang of the game. The game starts delivering maximum fun and challenge after 
 there is conflict between Konoko and the TCTF. The game turns into a challenege because the upcoming 
 enemies and opponents include both the TCTF elite and the Syndicate thugs. After each mission, 
 Konoko starts finding out information about her past and herself and this unravels a great secret 
 about her. It turns out that Konoko has a special implant called the Daodan chrysalis inside of 
 her that protects and changes her body to adapt with the adversities of the toxic effluents in 
 the atmosphere and water. With the special power boosts and somewhat impressive but limited arsenal 
 and awesome combat combos, we get an action packed adventure. The game also features two major 
 boss battles that are something to look forward to.
  
  The graphics isn't great but is good. The soundtracks are good but at some points in the game, 
 it becomes monotonous and when the soundtrack stops, the sounds of footsteps gets irritating. But, 
 the game supports very smooth gameplay and that is what makes this game worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: steppinrazor88
Rating: 7.6
Date: Feb 1, 2007 10:28 am PT
Review:  I believe this was my very first ps2 game that i owned... i really liked this game and all the combo's 
 and the fighting! The story was pretty good too. I used alot of cheat codes for this game but i 
 played trough it with and without the codes. I don't think it gets enough credit for being a good 
 game! I'm thinking about dusting off the case and playing it again to make sure because i don't 
 really remember alot about this game except that the fighting was really fun.... I do remember that 
 the music wasn't very good.... the boss fights were well put together... yea my memory is failing 
 me right now.... well anyway i wouldn't say it is a must own OR a must play but it's definantly 
 worht trying it out... They don't make too many games like this nowadays so.... it's good for a beat-em 
 up as GS would call this game... Worth a try!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sahfire
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jan 25, 2007 1:30 am PT
Review:  Summary:
  
  Yeah, It could be the best game ever....
  Everyone had high expectations for Oni. The box even has some unreserved editorial testimonials 
 on it that is tough to retract at the time the articles are written. But while Oni has bright spots, 
 great fighting action and awesome sounds and music , Oni fails on many other levels.
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  GamePlay:
  
  The inner child is reassured by repetition. The adult finds some repetition boring and inane. Oni 
 has the latter repetition for its otherwise remarkably wonderful fighting action.
  
  The repetition comes in part from the steep learning curve and the inability to save your game 
 at key points in the action, and finally the death Nell is the lack of difficulty settings to make 
 it easier to learn the combat. So in the final analysis, the player finds him or herself doing 
 the same exact combat sequence over and over again ad nauseum.
  
  GamePlay -&gt; Weapons &amp; Moves:
  
  Weapons are really nice. This is a martial arts fighting 
 game with some of the high-techest weapons we have seen. The fighting is something like Star Wars 
 on steroids. On one hand you have martial arts moves like the devil spin kick and on the other 
 hand you have weapons like the screaming cannon and laser sights. The cannon's slow moving screaming 
 projectile makes good use of sound and graphics.
  
  The moves are the best that can be seen today and are without competition. The spinning round kick 
 is pretty and satisfying when it solidly connects in graphic and sound based pyrotechnics. Colors 
 radiate from a connected hit that tell you the remaining health of the opponent.
  
  Not only can you do a variety of martial arts moves that are brilliantly animated on the screen, 
 but also you can run, jump, tumble, roll and crawl as needed in the game. These abilities are not 
 used enough in the game. Perhaps climbing and other skills would have allowed the designers to 
 give you more obstacles than tons of pits to jump over, miss and reload your game back at the last 
 save about three or four or five fights back.
  
  GamePlay -&gt; Artificial Intelligence:
  
  The enemy artificial intelligence has its problems. These ninjas, thugs and terrorists are 
 either stupid or brilliant. The enemies cannot use explosives while their aim with projectile weapons 
 is perfect. Several mobs are very stupid while others are extremely smart. Non-player characters 
 ask for and get help from surrounding mobs. So that fights quickly escalate from one opponent to 
 as many as five. You need to stay focused and eliminate the lesser threats quickly before the tougher 
 ones.
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Plot:
  
  Keys, keys and more keys make up plenty of your time searching for the keys to unlock single, double, 
 and triple locked doors. And when you are not searching for lost keys and NPCs to battle, you are 
 getting ready to jump yet another pit in the plain white floor.
  
  At the end of the game you find yourself wondering about many of the loose ends of the plot. Illogical 
 inconsistencies will plague you and defy all logic. Konoko, the female protagonist in the game 
 is left with no motivation for killing all these NPCs. English seems to be a problem in the writing 
 of the plot, but then it may be simply an emulation of Japanese Anime where such problems are common.
 
  
  Konoko keeps a diary, which is very helpful in explaining new moves and other parts of the plot. 
 Konoko's diary is very helpful in early parts of the game, and then it disappears and does not 
 come back for a long period, leaving the game player stranded and alone. The use of this diary 
 could have explained much. -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Graphics:
  
  The bare hallways with white floors and black walls make up miles and miles of nothing from one 
 battle to the other. You get the feel you are in a hospital that has no patients, nurses, or doctors. 
 More detail would have been appreciated.
  
  Mouths in Japanese movies and often Anime do not move in sync with the words. In the animations 
 for this game, the mouths never move. The characters in some scenes in Anime do not move but are 
 still pictures. Oni has a more Anime feel due to this feature. 
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Animation:
  
  Mouths in Japanese movies and often Anime do not move in sync with the words. In the animations 
 for this game, the mouths never move. The characters in some scenes in Anime do not move but are 
 still pictures. Oni has a more Anime feel due to this feature. 
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Sound:
  
  If you like a pounding beat backed up by rocking techno music you will love this sound track.
 
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Controllers:
  
  You can play with the mouse but there are no game options to adjust the mouse. You cannot play 
 with a gamepad. You cannot reconfigure the controls by normal means. You need to open the controller 
 configuration file to change the key configuration layout.
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Multi-player Features:
  
  There is no multiplayer or skirmish mode in the game. This type of game would have benefited from 
 multiplayer play on the internet or local area network. ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamefreakleo777
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 27, 2006 8:24 pm PT
Review:  this game is farely good but its just missing one thing. more guns it needs more guns!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
 i mean dont get me wrong it is a great game but everytime i play i feel like there should be more 
 to it. like and alternate ending that will show a continuation of the game or something but this 
 is not fair. it just keaves me hanging and doesnt give me the saticfaticion that other games have 
 such as grandtheft auto san andreas. san andreas has great combat and alot of cool guns that also 
 cpme along with alot of great cheats. well the reason i gave it a ten is because it desirved a 
 ten. although i didnt get the juice that i was looking for i found it to be a very interesting 
 game and even though it didnt satijfie my needs i still think that it was an over all great game. 
 10 out of ten baby. this game earned it anyway. it was very ariginal. when i saw that i mean that 
 it didnt really copy off of any game. like that game wear that kid turns into a super sayain and 
 it had nothing to do about sayains. i thought that that game sucked. it was a cheap copy off of 
 dbz. that was seriously low man. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: glitzy69
Rating: 7.7
Date: Sep 19, 2006 2:56 pm PT
Review:  Oni Review
  
  The Good: Decent enough graphics, good animation, good sound, great opening/ending cinematics and 
 refreshing fighting/shooting system.
  
  The Bad: clipping issues, some visual holes in levels, occasionally frustrating AI, not enough 
 shooting, some weapons suck, menu and save point issues, Great opening and ending but average art 
 for everything in between.
  
  The game is set in the future, a rather dismal and dystopian one at that. The world is run by a 
 government that combined to form a single body when a massive environmental catastrophe turned 
 the air of the planet poisonous; small cuts resulted in fatal infections. Atmosphere scrubbers 
 keep things livable in cities and cleaned areas. Not to be outdone, criminal organizations joined 
 together to combat the TCTF, the universal police force of the government. This criminal government 
 is known as The Syndicate, which isnt entirely original, but is effective enough to give a sort 
 of soulless and violent flavor to its ranks.
  
  The player experiences the game through the eyes, or rather, behind the shoulders of Konoko. She 
 works for the TCTF, and right from the get-go its obvious something is weird about her. She has 
 violet hair, the only unique color in the game (despite the games attempt to be an anime inspired 
 game) aside from two of the other main characters. Shes also one of the top agents, despite being 
 new at her job, and is sent in  usually alone  to deal with syndicate threats. The story has 
 some very creepy moments a person wouldnt expect, such as a torture scene later on involving an 
 android shaped like a 12-year-old. The game didnt skimp on the character development, thats for 
 sure.
  
  The gameplay is both straightforward, and a little awkward. The first level of the game is a training 
 mission, which teaches Konoko the basics. Mostly, the player will be fighting their way through 
 the game using combinations of punches, kicks, throws, dodges, and even some sneaking to land some 
 deadlier attacks from behind. Its essentially a fully 3d brawling game, as if Streets of Rage 
 suddenly got its 3rd dimension and a female protagonist. Different button combinations will perform 
 different movesthree punches will result in a combo, three kicks, two punches followed by a kick, 
 etc. This system plays quite well, and is actually an excellent representation of a fully 3d, multi-combatant 
 brawler with some more advanced tactics such as staggering for attack openings, or throwing opponents 
 into others to get some breathing room while they recover. Sneaking is fully viable, but it is 
 difficult to do since most enemies are actually quite alert. Its quite satisfying to hear the 
 crackle of the backbreaker move, though, so its worth it to crouch-walk around and bag a few 
 bad guys quietly. There are, as youd expect in a brawler, boss fights here and there. Big guys 
 with big guns (that you can use) , Super Ninjas (that means he is fast and almost invisible, cause 
 Ninjas cheat like that) , and eventually indulging in some of Konokos sibling rivalry is all here.
 
  
  Healing and shooting is quite simple. Healing is done with hypos, quick injectors of medicines 
 that heal wounds. Several can be carried, and they can be used by hitting the tab key. However, 
 they work differently on Konoko than on Other people. She can overdose on these health items, 
 getting an unearthly violet glow and suddenly becoming very powerful until the overdose wears off. 
 Gunning in the game is simplistic at best; Konoko wields a single weapon at a time, which can be 
 holstered to let her fight bare-handed. When a weapon is wielded, controls for looking are tightened, 
 and punching is disabled; this makes things more accurate for aiming. However, there is usually 
 not much ammo around for the guns. This isnt a problem, as Konoko will find herself simply using 
 the particularly painful looking disarming moves to yank a fresh gun from her victims hand for 
 a quick kill on another guy in the distance. It goes to note that if Konoko disarms an opponent 
 with a weapon while shes unarmed, she can hold the trigger down on the gun as she does so, emptying 
 half the clip into her unfortunate target before hes thrown a few feet away and the animation 
 finishes. Since many enemies are fully armed, the game does give forcefields, which do nothing 
 to sway melee damage but fully absorb projectiles until they collapse from the stress.
  
  The way it all looks and sounds is, well, a bit mixed. The animations and effects are quite interesting 
 in some respects. Most of the animation is fluid, cinematic, and actually quite brief. This makes 
 performing the various bone-contorting martial arts Konoko utilizes pretty satisfying. Some of 
 the weapons are a joy to watch work as well. The screamer fires an entity of energy, which will 
 home in on opponents and drain their life force to continue existing in the world. The screech 
 of it is obvious, unique, and when its life ends, the metal projectile it was clinging to will 
 bounce lifelessly as it smolders and finally disappears. The sound of the fighting isnt lacking 
 either, with smacks, slams, and wet crunches and thuds. However, the textures of the game are quite 
 plain. It isnt truly cell shaded as XIII was, but instead went for a mock cell shaded look, giving 
 the models a sort of pasty or doll-like look. This made for some interesting things, though, as 
 the shapes of the various models (Konoko herself has several different outfits through the coarse 
 of the game) were pretty varied and didnt bog down the play. The game is almost fully voiced, 
 and pressing the action button while fighting will have Konoko taunt. Having her say So there! 
 to an armored, 7 foot tall soldier after shes pummeled him into dreamland is amusing, to say the 
 least, and the games characters are very well voiced right up until the end of the game. The bad 
 guy at the end gets a little, shall we say, nutty.
  
  There are a few frustrations. The AI, for one, can be spotty. It will either be as intelligent 
 as a sack of hammers and let you beat the crap out of it with little problems, be nearly omniscient, 
 or in certain cases will outright cheat. Konoko will be busy hammering her opponent, but will suddenly 
 find herself caught out of a full combo  while the enemy was being staggered by the attacks  
 and into a very damaging throw move (which may very well end with her being sent off a rooftop 
 or high ledge) . In some cases, a few enemies can even jump up and instantly throw Konoko to the 
 concrete while they are flat out on the ground. All in all though, the AI is difficult enough to 
 warrant avoid fighting more than one or two at a timeyou can only block attacks from the front, 
 and getting in a 5-way brawl isnt exactly what one would call easy.
  
  Many of Konokos throwing moves have a sort of momentum to them, as she does seem to be quite 
 light in terms of fighting. For example, while running she can jump up and grip a victim between 
 her legs, then do a little bit of acrobatics to send him flying several feet forward while she 
 continues onward. This leads to a lack of control at timeswhich is a big issue in this game. Some 
 of the moves are notoriously difficult to pull off, even though when Konoko discovers them the 
 game tells the player exactly how to use them. A simple spinning kick move could turn into a sweep 
 at just the wrong moment, bringing a lot of hurt down on Konoko as her enemies converge. Or, in 
 the case of that flipping leg-throw, it could send both Konoko and her opponent off a cliff since 
 she cannot stop herself or grab onto ledges.
  
  The most humbly annoying part of the game though, is the save points and menu system. A player 
 cannot customize their button layoutonly graphical quality and the inversion of the mouse vertical. 
 Even then, while actually in the game, these options cannot be changed; the options menu is replaced 
 by load game for some reason. It uses typical WASD configuration, though, so anyone familiar 
 with FPS games will likely be right at home. The save points utilize checkpoints, and this can 
 be especially frustrating when the AI decides its omniscient for a certain fight. A full half hour 
 of gameplay can be lost from a single opponent kicking the you-know-what out of the heroine or 
 a sudden suicidal streak that has the enemy throwing themselveswith Konokointo a pit or off a 
 ledge. There is no need to open a save game menu, though, as the checkpoints and level openings 
 always auto-savewhich can force you to load a previous checkpoint since the player might get Konoko 
 into a very bad situation without knowing the checkpoint was coming up.
  
  Oni is, at its core, a love-it-or-hate-it game. It is a rather successful marriage of melee combat 
 and shooting, but with a few noticeable drawbacks that do hamper the overall success of the game 
 as a whole. It was a new taste, so to speak, a logical evolution of brawling games, and the designers 
 did exceptionally well in the evolution of the combat system. It also tried to create a sort of 
 cell shaded universe, and was an attempt at making an anime atmosphere for a gamewith mixed 
 results. At least he heroine was kick-ass. So there! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yarcofin
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 18, 2006 11:22 am PT
Review:  Graphics (12.5%) - 9
  Controls (15%) - 8
  Variety (25%) - 9
  Replay (25%) - 10
  Sound (7.5%) - 8
  Depth (15%) - 8
  
  OVERALL - 9.2
  
  Graphics - 9
  Oni has a great 
 anime style, although the graphics are somewhat blocky. There is a lot of nice detail in every 
 level. This game was pretty much as close as it got to "cell-shaded" before games like XIII were 
 made.
  
  Controls - 8
  Combos and fighting are very easy and fun in Oni. This is the first game I played that used the 
 WADS movement instead of arrow keys, which was excellent. The only problem is the 3rd person shooting. 
 It is usually much easier to run up to an enemy and kung fu their butt, instead of trying to pick 
 them off. Pistols are almost un-usable because of their extreme recoil, while sniping and using 
 explosive weapons is somewhat easier.
  
  Variety - 9
  Oni features many different locations, weapons, and very unique enemies. All the enemies have their 
 own sayings and styles of fighting. And there is even one tripped-out dream level where you fight 
 yourself and super-small enemies, etc.
  
  Replay - 10
  What can I say, Oni is always fun.
  
  Sound - 8
  Your pink doll-child informant's voice gets 
 kind of annoying. Some character voices such as Barabas are overdone, but I suppose all of this 
 can be mostly excused by the whole anime style thing. The weapon noises are very realistic.
  
  Depth - 10
  The game features a very immersive, creative story.
  
  Overall - 9.2
  I 
 downloaded a 75 MB demo of Oni with a 56k modem back in the day just to get a level of the game, 
 and it was worth it. Then when I bought it, it was just that much better. Despite how many people 
 under-rate this game and don't seem to care for it much, I loved it. The only downsides are all 
 of the jumping puzzles and the monotonous unlocking of various doors in every level. It's especially 
 fun to play with the game's very creative cheats on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: almondragon
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 9, 2006 4:36 pm PT
Review:  Great game, probably and surely the only real fighting games created for the PC, easy to play , 
 interesting levels wonderful movies; for me one of the best games ever. 
  
  The fighting was very well balanced and the integration with the keyboard was easy enough so that 
 you dont had to remember 20 key maps or remap every time you wanted to play. 
  
  Also, this game made what no game, that I know for the PC has made, all the puzzles were possible 
 to be solved without cheating and even though the game is linear there are many results possible 
 for your actions if you run one way or other, on of the first games that I know were the stealth 
 factor was not frustrating but interesting enough. 
  
  Today we can call it a mixture of Splinter Cell, Hitman and Tomb Raider, on the time it was made, 
 I would call it the Best Action Game , and forever one of the best and most lovable efforts made 
 for a game on PC. 
  
  its sad that a sequel never came out for this one. ...
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mitjazagar
Rating: 8.1
Date: Feb 25, 2006 12:28 pm PT
Review:  Oni is the best fighting game for the PC for sure! the graphics are good and the game play is also 
 good. The game have some interesting fighting combos that are quick, powerful and affect more enemies. 
 The graphics are all right but you can still come with a dead body through the wall. The enemies 
 wary from beginning when they are easy to the end when they are tough and in great numbers. The 
 storyline is good with some dramatical moments. bad thing is that you are a woman, but on some 
 moments you think that it isn't so bad at all. The combos are cool and more and more powerful when 
 getting towards the end. Oni is really worth playing if you like fighting games. But for those 
 who don't there are weapons in th egame like Pistols, Plamsa rifles and so on.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: EZERICW
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jan 24, 2006 3:59 pm PT
Review:  This game, Oni, was not very good. Its graphics were not the fullest they could be. I am also not 
 a very great fan of anime though. The fighting is kind of slow, even when fighting with the moves 
 you learn throughout the game. There also is not a lot of fighting moves and "tactic" type things. 
 The game was also very easy and beat it very quickly. I beat the final boss with less than 1/10 
 of my health in less than two minutes. I only died once in that time, too. The story is also very 
 confusing and weird. OK game though, recommended to people who are just beginning playing video 
 games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brianj2001
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 21, 2006 7:58 am PT
Review:  This was a good game. There was a lot of hype around Oni and Halo. Oni was the first of the two 
 games to finally be released. It was one of the first games to mix martial arts fighting with gunfighting. 
 They did a fantastic job. The special moves where a little difficult to pull off, but there were 
 a lot of moves and made for great battles. So much so, that whenever they surrounded you with enemies, 
 you would get excited with anticipation. So the gameplay was fantastic and I played through the 
 game many times.
  
  The graphics were decent for the time. The levels were all designed by real architects, so the 
 levels are laid out like any real building. So they put a lot of effort into level design. Unfortunately, 
 they didn't put much detail in the levels. While that's fine for warehouses, there were a few levels 
 that could have used more detail. Looking at plain walls doesn't make for an immersive experience. 
 
  
  One thing the game doesn't do well is jump. The jump was designed to start attacks. Unfortunately, 
 there's 1 level where you jump from roof to roof. This level will prove frustrating. Since there's 
 only one level that forces you to use the game's weakness a lot, it's forgivable.
  
  The story is pretty basic. It's nothing special, but they do a good job of explaining what's going 
 on enough so your not confused at all. The music was good. It's fast paced and fits the game really 
 well. 
  
  While there were some shortcomings, the game was extremely fun because they focused on gameplay. 
 There was definite room for improvement, but it's a good example of a game done right. It's fun 
 to fight 4 or 5 guys at the same time when they're shooting at you and fighting with you. The game 
 has tremendous replay value and I still play it from time to time. The game is showing it's age, 
 but I'd still recommend this game to anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kellysontheroad
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 26, 2005 5:03 pm PT
Review:  I finished this game over a year ago and decided to write this review because Ive been so disappointed 
 with most of the games Ive tried since.
  
  If you are tired of Ramboing your way through endless dark unimaginative levels give Oni a try.
 
  
  Things I like about this game
  Brightly lit levels.
  Weapons that are actually strategically dissimilar.
  Interesting bosses.
  Sneaking and strategy 
 actually help.
  A plot that actually makes sense.
  A character you wont mind looking at for hours on end.
  And best of all, hand to hand combat 
 with all sorts of twisty gymnastic-y attacks.
  
  I like the fact that this game runs like butter on an AMD 2400/FX5200, I also like being able to 
 peak around corners without giving yourself away. The controls and game play are excellent. The 
 challenge is in the game, not in fighting with crappy weapons, trying to guess what needs to be 
 done next, or stumbling blindly down dark corridors.
  
  I recognize that this is not a game that everyone will love, but for me it is the best (non RTS) 
 game on the market even today (4 years later) . I wish there were more companies willing to produce 
 niche games like this.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zornth
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 15, 2005 8:48 pm PT
Review:  I love this game and could rant about it for HOURS. I really think it tops Halo but is overlooked. 
 I had some but not alot of trouble aiming. And its story had me whispering "what?!". It looks like 
 anime but it isnt. But it is fun. I could play this game over and over agian.... If there werent 
 more fun Third person shooters out there... Resident evil 4 is the best example. Though some shooting 
 problems... The third person action is the best I have ever experienced. Well... almost. Well to 
 end this review I will tell you this. You should buy it for the computer it is really fun, though 
 it is not perfect you should still consider it, so it will encourge bungie to make a sequal to 
 fix the problems. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aceoaces
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 19, 2005 5:15 pm PT
Review:  I remember playing Oni years ago, and I still use it as a reference to the genre. It WAS a genre, 
 cause I can't think of any other game that was equal parts Third Person Shooter AND martial arts 
 game. Ok, I admit the plot was BS. What kind of cop (even an android cop) would hear that they're 
 about to be arrested and respond by killing all their co-workers? What kind of sense does that 
 make?
  
  Anyway, that aside, I tend to trust Gamespot over private reviewers, but that just doesn't apply 
 here. The guy must have been doing some serious shrooms that day. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nodham
Rating: 7.2
Date: Nov 14, 2005 6:36 am PT
Review:  Oni a game I'm quite fond of. There's no one thing that makes it a masterpiece but everything in 
 its place works fine and in the end makes for a decent and fun game. 
  I've never been into anime much, too much screaming, dashing and charging up something or other, 
 but the visual style suits Oni fine and I found myself drawn into the story. As a bonus, Konoko's 
 uniform changes every few levels, giving you a chance to see hits connect with different clothing. 
 These wardrobe switches aren't necessary to the story but they make sense and show us the creators 
 care about their heroine as much as we should. 
  You will learn new fighting moves as the game progresses but ironically I found myself staying 
 more and more with the simpler basic ones as the game progressed. While I was trying to piece together 
 something quite devastating I would frequently get pummeled whereas relying on basic punch-punch-kick 
 or punch-punch-punch combos worked better. At least it hurt less. However, when you do manage to 
 pull them off they do look spectacular; it would have been nice had it been easier to execute them, 
 though. 
  The effects are nicely done and colourful. A hit thats blocked will create a blue puff, 
 whereas a hit that connects will not only show you were successful, but also denote the energy 
 a certain enemy has left. Its a nice idea and it works very well.
  Onis biggest problem is probably its save system, which is limited to a few auto-saves per 
 level. You may find yourself stuck in the middle of a level with too little energy to make it further, 
 replaying the same bits until you finally decide to give that earlier bit another go. 
  If youre into anime or fighting games then check out Oni. It wont wow you with unbelievable 
 translucent effects but it has enough style to keep you fighting to the endgame. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jrclem
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 1, 2005 12:49 pm PT
Review:  Oni is a third-person action title from Bungie Software in which you take the role of Konoko, a 
 member of an elite police task force. Konoko knows very little about her past ,and throughout the 
 game you will learn who she is and what her place is in the world of Oni through a series of 2D 
 anime-style cut-scenes. In Oni, the planet has been ravaged by a poisonous plague that makes living 
 outside of huge, quarantined megacities impossible. A terrorist group known as the Syndicate is 
 in conflict with the World Coalition Government and seems to want to introduce the plague to the 
 mega-cities and bring destruction to the world.
  
  Certainly an interesting premise, but action is the star of Oni. Konoko is capable of bringing 
 a whole lot of pain to the party through a devastating selection of hand-to-hand maneuvers, ranging 
 from simple punches and kicks to strings of combos and incredibly satisfying neck- and -back-breaking 
 throws. 
  
  There are also the firearms to consider, including standard pistols and machine guns, as well as 
 the more interesting (and useful) swarm-missile launchers and frozen-mercury firing rail-guns. 
 One neat bit of gameplay that connects the melee combat with the firearms is that you are capable 
 of stealing an enemy's weapon before you take them out (which will be invaluable in later levels) . 
 While the firearms are certainly necessary to completing the game, they don't provide quite the 
 same level of achievement as when you take a guy down with a well-timed spinning jump-kick.
  
  The controls in Oni are a little difficult to get used to and are uneditable in the game, although 
 the commands are simply written to a text file and it may be possible to rebind them (I've never 
 tried) . But, once you do get used to the controls, you'll be beating down pretty much anything 
 that crosses your path.
  
  That being said, Oni is a difficult game. There are somewhere around 15 levels in Oni. During every 
 one, you will be fighting a seemingly unending horde of well-armed villains. To break up the action 
 there are some jumping puzzles and sneaking sections that are difficult because of Konoko's floaty-feeling 
 jump, and your enemies' ridiculously good eyesight. Also, there are parts that will require multiple 
 run-throughs due to the fact that there isn't a save system in Oni. The distance between the save 
 points are overly long (like other more recent Bungie titles) . And this can lead to a fairly high 
 amount of frustration, that fortunately, due to the visceral martial arts combat of Oni, can be 
 taken out on the unsuspecting minions in the game.
  
  The graphics of Oni are average for their time but poor by today's standards. The sound effects 
 and voice-acting however are both good even in comparison to some of today's titles. However, like 
 nearly all PC games, Oni has retained absolutely none of its initial value in stores, and can be 
 had for as little as $1.00 on eBay. For that price, Oni is a must-own title for third-person action 
 fans, and a game that is absolutely begging for a sequel that takes advantage of the gameplay innovations 
 of recent genre hits like the Prince of Persia series. 
  
  The bottom-line is that Oni is an under-rated action title that despite unoriginal and somewhat 
 tedious level-design offers a fun fighting experience that should not be missed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wenetnio
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 27, 2005 8:54 pm PT
Review:  este juego esta bueno pero solo lo crearon y lo dejaron tirado no hay parches ni mas level ni nada 
 bueno para mejorar el juego ............ es una lastima tan bueno que es el juego. pero aunque los 
 creadores del juego lo dejaron abandonado siempre hay paginas en internet que hacen esos scrips 
 .cuando lo bajas y lo juegas te emocionas pero luego te aburres ya no hay nada nuevo. me gustaria 
 que sacaran la version multiplayer o por lo menos la segunda parte omaspas nuevos................... es 
 un buen ejemplo de juegos de anime es muy revulucionario pero le altan mas y mejores graficos y 
 sonidos, y sobre todos los conversaciones siempre son las mismas 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KaotixGTX
Rating: 7.1
Date: Mar 4, 2006 9:08 am PT
Review:  And they were producing games like this. I'll get right to the point.
  
  The gameplay could have used a little more sprucing up before jumping the PS2 ship and onto the 
 PC. the fighting/platform/puzzle genre that is this game is a good idea. But Bungie screwed it 
 up like Namco did with Breakdown. ::shudders:: The fighting is mainly the important thing. With 
 time, you discover new moves and can kill with one.. no wait.. hes getting up again... two.... 
 three..... oh forget it. You kill the guys eventually. 
  
  The graphics are dull and lifeless. I can understand how the makers wanted it to be a dark sci-fi 
 game, but there is no shine to it. Literally. This was released in 2001, months before reflection 
 mapping would come into play. But walk across a glass platform and there is no reflection, just 
 a little shadow underneath you.
  
  The sound is good. The voices are clear but sometimes bore you to death with the slow going that 
 the actors have done, especially that child. Gees, take five days to explain something I read in 
 the booklet, why dont ya? The music is techno. Wait, no its not. Techno sounds better. This is 
 just droning  
  
  I eventually got frustrated with how long this game was taking to play. And how impossible it was 
 to get past one part. So I DLed a hex editor and cheated my way to the end. The cool thing about 
 the hex editor cheat is that you can fall off a building and live, that means you can go walking 
 around on the bottom just to see what you can find. Sometimes that seemed more interesting than 
 the actual gameplay.
  
  This game was good, for the time being when I first bought it. But after a while you begin to notice 
 the flaws. Plus just after its release graphics began getting into almost-real. Looking back, this 
 is a good game to have in your collection, but not to show off to someone whos been playing games 
 all their life. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: suzabbe
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 12, 2005 5:33 pm PT
Review:  This is a highly stylized action Anime title with a few major flaws that unfortunately overshadow 
 what could be an excellent title. Ill start with the bad to end on a good note. Normally PC games 
 allow you to quick save at any given point on any given level and of course have auto saves at 
 the beginning of each level. The creators of Oni, however, seemed to think that an action-fighting 
 title like this did not need many save points, much to the chagrin of the player. Because of the 
 amount of enemies you face throughout the levels and the lack of health it is crucial that you 
 are allowed to save often and this title does not do that. The incredibly lengthy levels add to 
 your frustration. Playing a level for a few hours only to be killed right before the next save 
 point and have to repeat the entire level once again is not fun. The saving system design was by 
 far the biggest and most annoying flaw of this game. 
  
  The second, most prevalent flaw, ties into the terrible saving system I mentioned above. The difficulty 
 of this game combined with the lack of save points makes it incredibly frustrating to play. In 
 short, this game is very hard. The difficulty level changes dramatically within a few frames it 
 seems; starting off almost too easy and then jumping into almost impossible multiple enemy attacks 
 without any lead-time. Im not one to back away from a challenging game but Oni really is just 
 too hard for an average gamer and its lack of an explosively entertaining plotline does not make 
 you want to re-play the same level twenty times over. 
  
  Now that Ive covered the two most aggravating flaws in Oni, Id like to share that this game does 
 have its good points. Graphically, Oni is pleasing to the eye. For its time Id say it is one 
 of the most visually gratifying titles out there. Characters are well rendered and the environments, 
 although stark at times, fit the storyline quite well. Controls are very basic including some interesting 
 flips and combination kick-punches. The storyline is interesting if not riveting and reminds me 
 of a combination of Beyond, Good and Evil and Tomb Raider. Overall its an ok title, but if you 
 start to get frustrated while playing it, its one that can easily be dropped.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikromouse
Rating: 5.4
Date: Feb 8, 2005 11:26 pm PT
Review:  Its not hard to see where developers Bungie Software were going when they came up with the concept 
 for Oni. An anime-based, stylish, 3rd person stealth/fighting/shooting game. Oh, and with a female 
 protagonist. However where they went wrong was in the execution of such a large idea.
  
  From the get-go I was hampered with technical difficulties within the game. I recall some atrocious 
 load times between levels, and glitchy sound. Within the game engine there were glitches with being 
 able to see through walls down floors to enemies and knowing that they were activated. Oni had 
 a distinct fighting style and she could learn new moves, provided you had the fingers to reach 
 that annoying combination of keys.
  
  The gameplay explains little (apparently this is explained in the manual) but for a while I was 
 content to just play and hope the story would unfold on its own. Nope! For the casual gamer it 
 was hard to pick up.
  
  The game did feature some good technical feats (lighting tricks, fog, particle effects) and although 
 the fighting system didn't work, it was inventive.
  
  The conspiracy theorist in me says that because Bungie was picked up by Microsoft at a time when 
 Halo was gaining some big hype (back when Halo was just a PC game) that this game was given the 
 bum-rush to get out the door. I don't recall any engaging cinematics, and I myself found this game 
 in the bargain bin within 6 months of it appearing on the shelves.
  
  In the end, I would say skip it. Unless you're a die-hard Bungie fan the game is forgettable and 
 at times painful to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zechis
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 12, 2005 5:56 am PT
Review:  Third person, behind and above the head, action-adventure. On screen display includes ammo counter 
 (for both types, ballistic and energy) , equipped weapon and shots remaining, hypo counter (health) , 
 force field gauge, invisibility (phase cloak) gauge, and health gauge. Upper 15% of health gauge 
 is reserved for when overusing hypos: causes power-up (health slowly drains until back at 100%) . 
 Punch and kick in addition to projectile weapons. Learn combos as the game progresses.
  
  This is a great game! The story line and graphics are anime like. The controls take a bit of getting 
 used to (you can rebind keys but doing so requires editing a text file) , especially for moves that 
 require multiple buttons or sequences of buttons. The story is linear and static so there isnt 
 much in terms of replay value, but the first time through is a blast. The automatic progress saving 
 is a great feature and keeps you immersed in the game. There are times when I thought a save point 
 should have triggered but didnt (i. e. after a boss fight) , which caused significant replaying 
 of sections of the level. However, this minor shortcoming isnt enough to take away from the overall 
 experience of the game.
  
  + Art style (anime)
  + Storyline
  + It has a character named Hugh Jass
  + Takedowns (i. e. neck swing: also kicks surrounding enemies!)
 
  + Automatic progress saving
  - Save points occasionally just a bit too far apart
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: chozojedi
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 9, 2004 5:57 am PT
Review:  First time I saw Oni, I had come across the demo of it, along with the bonus level 2 demo, on the 
 original Oni website.
  
  I was instantly hooked. While the graphics weren't the greatest, this game had lots of other unique 
 qualities: an intriguing, believable story; solid gameplay; cool animations; and a near-flawless 
 combination of a 3D fighter with a 3rd person shooter. 
  
  After playing the demo... A year after in fact (this game is hard to find) I finally bought the 
 thing. Those of you who don't get the story, read the manual? It definitely explains many elements 
 you won't find out about in the game.
  
  For those of you who have no idea what this game is about, here's a brief synopsis: You play Konoko, 
 an agent of the TCTF, the para-military organization that monitors the manufacturing and usage 
 of illegal technology. You have been called out onto your first big case: to stop the Syndicate, 
 the main thorn in the TCTF's backside, from using a local warehouse as a funnel point for illegal 
 weapon smuggling. Things turn ugly, however, when you are lead on a wild-goose chase to a manufacturing 
 plant, a government research building, an airport under siege, and other various locales as you 
 seek to stop the Syndicate's leader, Boss Muro, while at the same time delving into your own dark, 
 forgotten past.
  
  The levels in the game are HUGE. The textures are a little dull, but the gameplay itself is where 
 the game really shines: there are two basic martial arts moves: punch and kick. You can also run, 
 jump, roll, cartwheel, slide, throw enemies, and duck. Combining these with the punch and kick, 
 you can perform a wide variety of moves (which are unlocked at regular intervals throughout the 
 game) . You can also use a multitude of weapons, including a standard pistol, a plasma rifle, an 
 uzi-like submachine gun, a rocket launcher, and even an anti-tank weapon. Personally, this game 
 feels like a drastically toned-down third-person version of Halo (same company, even) . 
  
  Now, I've heard a lot of people complain about the control scheme, but you actually CAN reset it: 
 just change the config file in the Oni directory (forgot which one it is, but it IS editable in 
 Notepad) . 
  
  The sound effects are really cool, from the weapon loading, to the shattering glass, to the explosions... 
 And especially the SCREAM CANNON. The music is likewise cool, but comes at sporadic moments where 
 it sometimes doesn't belong, and doesn't last long enough. Want to hear a sample of it? Go to the 
 official Oni website: oni. bungie. org. Click on downloads, and check it out: half the soundtrack 
 is there.
  
  So, now comes the part where I'm supposed to wrap up this review, because I really don't have anything 
 more to say. Personally, I like this game... A LOT. And it really erks me to know that there are 
 really only two places that still sell it: eBay, and Fry's outpost. com. If you've played the demo, 
 and want more, good luck finding it. You will not be sorry. 
  
  Oni is a game that fell short in the eyes of many game critics, and there were a lot of things 
 that could've been added... C'MON, Splinter Cell would've benefited from eight more XBox Live levels, 
 right? And while it's no Jedi Outcast, this game is sure to please those who like a change from 
 the standard fighter/shooter games. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
