-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Onimusha 3: Demon Siege
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/adventure/onimusha3/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 A direct translation of a memorable PlayStation 2 action adventure game.
 Impressive presentation despite some blurry graphical elements.
 Quick, responsive controls even on relatively modest systems.
 Budget price.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Looks and feels like an older PlayStation 2 game quickly ported to the PC.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr  7, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.4
Critic Score: 6.4, 4 Review (s)
User Score: 8.0, 715 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ubisoft
Developer: Capcom
Genre: Fantasy Action Adventure
Date:     Mar 16, 2006 &raquo;  
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Blatantly ripped straight from the PlayStation 2, this version of Onimusha 3 still packs some good, 
 solid hack-and-slash combat and a likable story. 

  What's stranger than a PlayStation 2 game costarring  The Professional 's Jean Reno and  House 
 of Flying Daggers'  Takeshi Kaneshiro that's all about killing hordes of ghoulish samurai monsters? 
 A budget-priced PC port of that same game two years later, coming from a completely different publisher. 
 Ubisoft did the bare minimum in translating Capcom's original PS2 version of Onimusha 3: Demon 
 Siege to the PC, so not even the game's references to the original control scheme have been modified. 
 However, since the underlying source material is great stuff, and since the game still looks good 
 and mostly runs smoothly, this version of Onimusha 3 holds up quite well.  

          If you weren't playing PlayStation 2 games back in 2004, now you can play them on your 
 PC. Fortunately, Onimusha 3 was a great game to begin with, and it survives translation mostly 
 intact.     

  If you're interested in Onimusha 3 for the PC, chances are you haven't played the previous games 
 in the series (or maybe you're a morbidly curious fan of the series) . All you really need to know 
 is that for all the hard work put in by the heroes of the Onimusha series, slaying countless demons 
 and zombies in their effort to vanquish the power-hungry warlord Nobunaga, they've been woefully 
 unable to finish the job. Onimusha 3 begins as Samanosuke, the noble samurai from the original 
 Onimusha, is assaulting the fortress in which Nobunaga has been pinned down. It would be a very 
 short game if this were to be the warlord's last stand, so instead, a temporal rift suddenly appears 
 during the confrontation, and Samanosuke is whisked away to Paris in 2004 -- and he's not the only 
 one. The sorts of demonic fiends that have plagued medieval Japan now appear in droves in the streets 
 of France, and they begin slaughtering everyone in sight. One of the survivors is Jacques, who 
 unwittingly becomes Samanosuke's counterpart. Both men gain the favor of the Oni, in the form of 
 a soul-sucking gauntlet and the ability to wield elemental weapons. And even as Samanosuke ends 
 up in the present, sure enough, Jacques ends up in medieval Japan. Now, with the help of a little 
 winged spirit named Ako (basically a black-winged Tinkerbell) , who can conveniently whisk her way 
 across space and time, these two warriors will need to put a stop to Nobunaga's nefarious time-traveling 
 schemes -- and hopefully find a way back to their respective eras.  

  While that's a pretty great setup, the plot turns out to be predictable and filled with ham-fisted 
 dialogue. But it's still entertaining, thanks to some impressively choreographed cutscenes, and 
 the underlying gameplay makes for some fast-paced fun, too. This is a fully 3D hack-and-slash action 
 adventure, filled with lots of combat and some light puzzle-solving. The default keyboard controls 
 are complicated, though they work reasonably well after you've had some practice using them. But 
 if you hook up a nice gamepad to your PC (like Microsoft's Xbox 360 controller) , you'll be able 
 to play Onimusha 3 using the solid, responsive control scheme that was originally designed for 
 it. Apart from these control options and getting to set your preferred screen resolution, don't 
 expect many PC gaming conventions from this port of Onimusha 3. The ability to save your progress 
 is limited to using "magic mirrors" scattered around the gameworld (these also serve as stations 
 that can power up your weapons) . Some environmental textures look blurry and ugly, though some 
 great-looking characters and animation help balance this out. At least the manual explains the 
 default keyboard controls, since the game itself still cites the PS2 controller's buttons.  

  There are a few occasions in which transitions between camera angles may cause you to take a 
 cheap hit from an offscreen enemy, but for the most part, you're afforded a high degree of maneuverability, 
 and you can easily conduct battle on your own terms. The action itself follows Onimusha's strong 
 formula. It's simple and streamlined, letting you quickly mash on the attack button to execute 
 effective attack combos. But there's also incentive to play with finesse. By properly timing an 
 attack just as your opponent is about to strike, or by immediately attacking after deflecting an 
 enemy's blow at the last possible moment, you can execute a deadly critical hit that causes your 
 fallen foe to let loose a much greater quantity of soul orbs than usual. As in past Onimusha games, 
 souls are used as currency for powering up your weapons and defenses (as well as for restoring 
 your health and magic) , so there's constantly good reason to be pulling off these instant-kill 
 moves.  

  Optional training sequences will give you plenty of practice with these and Onimusha 3's other 
 combat techniques, such as Jacques' ability to entangle his enemies with his energy whip, shoot 
 them a bunch of times with his pistol, and then slam them into the ground. The action here isn't 
 complicated or terribly deep -- you'll fight many of the same types of enemies over and over, and 
 most of them aren't particularly challenging. But Onimusha 3's gameplay is fast and good looking, 
 rewards careful timing, and offers up enough variety between the playable characters and their 
 various weapons so it's consistently quite entertaining. Overall, Onimusha 3 offers a reasonably 
 lengthy single-player adventure that will take you a dozen or more hours from beginning to end. 
 And then there's a good quantity of unlockable bonuses to keep you busy for a while after that. 

          While the level of detail in these visuals isn't extraordinary, the characters and animation 
 still look great.     

  There's only the default difficulty level available at first, but if you die a few times, an optional 
 easy mode is unlocked. A hard mode becomes available once you finish the game, along with a side 
 quest involving one of the game's ancillary characters. There are some other extras, too, such 
 as additional unlockable outfits and minigames. One option you don't get is to hear the original 
 Japanese voice-over. At the beginning (and end) of the game, the French characters can be heard 
 speaking their native language. Thanks to Ako, though, Samanosuke and Jacques will soon be able 
 to understand each other as they magically switch over to English. Fortunately, the English voice 
 acting is pretty good on the whole.  

  Even though it's been jarringly displaced from its native platform, Onimusha 3 for the PC still 
 delivers some quality action and thrilling story sequences. As long as you're willing to accept 
 some  shortcomings, you'll likely see from this version why Onimusha 
 3 was so well received on the PS2 in the first place.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (27 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: godofhell2
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 23, 2008 9:09 am PT
Review:  Positive
  - Still great action from one of the best action games on the PS2
  - Great graphics and sound effects
  - Stunning environments
  
  Negative
  - Controls are 
 responsive but a little complicated
  - Camera isn't so good
  - A gamepad will make you appreciate this game better 
  
  Onimusha 3 was great on the PS2, 
 and on the PC, not so much. Although that strong gameplay which Onimusha had on the PS2 is still 
 there, Onimusha doesn't feel as good as the PS2 version. Story is basically the same as it was 
 on the other version 2 years better the PC release.
  
  If you haven't played the memorable PS2 version of Onimusha 3, the most important characters are 
 Samanosuke which is allied by Jacques, a French man from Paris. The game takes off in medieval 
 Japan where a group of Samurai are heading to when Nobunaga is to take him out. You start of with 
 Samanosuke, which indeed finds Nobunaga but if Samanosuke beats Nobunaga there would be no game. 
 So an accident happens and Samanosuke finds himself in modern France. While Jacques finds himself 
 in medieval Japan. Story is the same on the PC as it was on the PS2. If you didn't know of the 
 PS2 version, the story is a little confusing at first, but you'll get the hang of it. You keep 
 switching from character to character automatically but later in the game you can change at your 
 enjoyment. 
  
  There are some control issues, and gameplay isn't as fast paced as it is on the PS2 version. There 
 are still those nice treasures opening puzzle solving though. I prefer the PS2 action rather than 
 the PC. Still graphics look amazing and sounds effects are nice too. Most things than Onimusha 
 3 had on the PS2 are on the PC, except for the controls. Controls are good but some are complicated. 
 Also when you get a new ability the game explains in the PS2 way like displays R1 + X. This might 
 become confusing. Well, I don't know if my version does this, I will confirm this soon enough. 
 Still this version had the big problem that the PS2 version had, the camera. Camera can still be 
 a royal pain since you don't get to see some of the action or feels to far away. I know fixed cameras 
 are better for the PC, at least I prefer them this way. 
  
  I didn't really play the PC version a lot since it was for loan. The PS2 is better than the PC's, 
 mostly of the control issues. But if you missed Onimusha 3 on the PS2 'cos you don't own a PS2, 
 you need to check this on the PC. It will be harder on the PC than it was 2 years before, but what's 
 good in this game came to the PC. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dark_prince2007
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 8, 2007 2:31 pm PT
Review:  The game breaks free from the pre-rendered camera system of the predecessor to serve up a much 
 faster and action-focused game experience. Main star Samanosuke plays much like he did in the first 
 game, but the new second character Jaques (featuring the likeness of Jean Reno) , is a much different 
 type of experience. In control of an energy whip, Jacques can smack his enemies high and low and 
 even grab them in a python-like grip for additional maneuvers. The game will feature locales ranging 
 from feudal Japan to modern-day Paris, France.
  Nobunaga's evil scourge has now spread across time to affect the future. As Samanosuke prepares 
 for battle, a new hero enters the fray -- Jacques Blanc, French military officer. Two heroes from 
 different lands and time must travel through time and space to defeat the evil Nobunaga and his 
 hordes of darkness. Control the fate of both men as you journey from 16th-century Japan to modern-day 
 Paris and back. Onimusha 3: Demon Siege is the final chapter in the Onimusha trilogy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingLim
Rating: 8.1
Date: May 5, 2007 10:40 pm PT
Review:  I must admit, the sleek intro cinematics got me to try the game first, and I grew fond of it quickly. 
 I'm not an experienced gamer, and action fighting games often get the better of me. Onimusha 3 
 is a hard game of its genre and I actually made it worse when playing on a keyboard. But the action 
 is so addictive and intense that I struggled relentlessly with my poor hand-eye coordination skills 
 to finally complete it on a normal setting.
  
  It is better to use a console controller to play it since it is a direct import from PS2 and some 
 of the in-game elements forces you to react to the triangle/square/circle buttons on-screen that 
 are translated to other default keys on your keypad, which in this case wouldn't make sense to 
 you and you may find yourself getting stuck trying to figure out the irrelevant patterns during 
 puzzle solving minigames that have time limits.
  
  Great graphics accompany a compelling storyline and an equally fantastic combat system that rewards 
 your playing efforts with powerful items and secrets to unlock, making this a uniquely enjoyable 
 pc action gaming experience that is normally dedicated to the Playstation.
  
  KingLim 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vampiro_HuntT3R
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 3, 2006 2:41 am PT
Review:  Ah, I don't know much what to write in the game reviews. But, let me say this, this game is a superb. 
 It's a game with great story line and great gameplay. It's graphics are good, not perfect but 'tis 
 ok. Music is cool, especially when in a fight. Good gameplay, good graphics, good sound and good 
 fighting styles, whatelse a gamer wants? Though the graphics wants some work up but still, we have 
 to ignore something when the other game features are cool. SO, I will say this that the game is 
 of my choice. I don't care if people recommend this review or not and like the game or not. But 
 I like it alot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bulldawg8879
Rating: 8.4
Date: Oct 18, 2006 9:12 am PT
Review:  This is really a great game but it is probably somewhat better on the playstation only because 
 of the controls. The worst part of this game for the pc is it is pretty much directly ported from 
 the ps2, with the help menus and training levels showing you the buttons you would use on a ps2 
 controller. The default controls that the game is set at is pretty much impossible to play so you 
 definatley will need to reconfigure the keys. Its pretty bad that they did this, it seems like 
 a half assed port because of this but i had tried metal gear solid on the pc and they did the same 
 thing as well. Other than that I had a great time with this game and had a hard time putting it 
 down. The game is very addictive and very fun to play. The game is pretty much a hack n slash type 
 game, with you controlling 3 different characters throughout the game. Some levels require you 
 to transfer items through time portals to the other characters to activate different areas of the 
 level which is a unique idea and pretty well implemented. The graphics in the game are very good 
 and im sure are much better than the original ps2 version, with everything in high resolution. 
 The characters all look great and the enemies do as well. The sound effects are alright but are 
 not very loud for the most part with the music drowning out some of the sound effects. The music 
 is very well done as well though but i think ive heard some of this music in another game before, 
 it may have been soul calibur? The voice acting is pretty good in this game although some characters 
 are better than others. The story is good although im not exactly sure what it was about for the 
 most part. Some parts of the story were really sappy and made me cringe a little bit but it was 
 still enjoyable. Overall if your up to reconfiguring a little bit of controls and dont have a ps2 
 i would definatley try this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrAbs
Rating: 8.6
Date: Sep 26, 2006 2:24 am PT
Review:  The story of 2 worlds 500 years apart. Jacques Blanc gets sent back to the past and Samenoske gets 
 sent into the future. They have to fight their way through the Gemna to get back to their own times.
 
  
  The storyline is great. I personally have not played anything that had a story so diverse. There 
 is even a back story about Jacques and the relationship between his son Henri and his new girlfriend 
 Michelle.
  
  The Graphics I found to be a bit PlayStation 1 ish. But only when you get up close to the characters. 
 The combat is fast and fantastic. You have 3 different weapons per character. Each weapon has a 
 power. This allows you to fight the way you want. For a quick pace, choose the Swords or the Whips. 
 For something to just knock your enemies unconscious, use the Axe. There is a mulitude of different 
 villians and minions. Enough to keep you on your toes. There is a huge amount of levels that need 
 to be competed and in some cases there are a few puzzles that need to be solved to get to the next 
 level. This is great because it keeps you guessing and it keeps you from getting bored with the 
 game. If it was just killing Zombies all the time, the game would have been a bit on the repetitive 
 side. But the puzzles definitely solves this.
  
  The game is highly addictive and a lot of fun to play. A must have for people who like RPG. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadibm
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 9, 2006 4:44 am PT
Review:  The story is good, the characters are fitted and various
  You get to play with 3 heroes at the same game
  
  The fighting are no bad but the game could 
 have been more challenging i say
  
  You always seem to be the winner except for the last battle when things get a bit more exiting
 
  
  You might find it a bit difficult to learn the moves considering that teaching them is a PS2 based 
 instructions, not PC Keyboard but you'll manage
  
  Also you'll find some twists in the games
  
  In general the game is not a bad experience at 
 all 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Badger_1
Rating: 8.2
Date: Aug 16, 2006 5:24 am PT
Review:  Onimusha 3 Demon Siege is an extremely fun game. Throughout the story you switch between playing 
 two main characters, samurai Samanosuke Akechi and french military Jacques Blanc, each with different 
 weapons. There are also parts of the game where you play as Jacques' girl friend Michelle Aubert 
 using a machine gun and grenades. If you complete the game, there's even a mini game where you 
 play as Heihachirou Tadakatsu Honda who yields a spear. The puzzles in the game aren't overly complex 
 but do take some thought, especially those towards the end. I have a P4 3.2 GHz, 1 GB RAM and a 
 Radeon 9800 Pro which ran the game great. My old Gravis Xterminator game pad also worked well; 
 although, characters would move extremely slowly going diagonally at times. This was especially 
 frustrating during part of the game which is timed and you need to move from room to room quickly. 
 To proceed, I needed to temporarily use the keyboard. The game was also fussy at times on the location 
 of the character. For example, if I wasn't in just the right spot for one of the time portals, 
 I couldn't activate it. I also had problems executing some of the moves. Even though I was using 
 the correct commands, training for critical hits just wouldn't work. Perhaps it was my gamepad 
 but I have my doubts. All in all, very fun to play which I would highly recommend to anyone who 
 enjoys a good action game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Senkia
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 6, 2006 2:22 pm PT
Review:  this game is the best out of all the onimushas. its still got the kill nobunaga story but they involved 
 a new character. Jacaus a french speiail forces member. this game has better puzzles and better bosses. 
 overall i think this is one of the best games ive played. the puzzles are better and harder and 
 hide better items that help alot more than before. the action is better also. its harder and theres 
 alot more of it. and the bosses are harder. sure theres someone like goganduantes but its worth it. theres 
 more secrets to. overall this game is better and completly worth owning. how ever the game is sometimes 
 frustrating but what game isnt? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarknessSpawn
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 31, 2006 9:46 am PT
Review:  so far i have remaped a lot of controls but still i cant find the "shoot arrow" or "lock-on" controls 
 and im in a part where i have to kill birds to get past and i cant shoota arrows... mad gay lol. 
 help would be appreciated
  But overall its a nice game and good storyline, also its funny how Jacques speaks french and the 
 samurai english... lol they look at each other not understanding at all in teh first scene then 
 he gets teleported back like 500 years. The music is ok and graphics is normal compared to the 
 games made back then although the sound starts high and you need to go to options in order to decrease 
 it ha 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iceteo012
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 23, 2006 5:36 am PT
Review:  Pros: If one plays this with a game controller/joystick e. g a playstation 2 USB controller, the 
 games handles pretty well and actions are executed smoothly. The fight sequence are well cheorographed 
 & seldom gets boring or repetitive. The opening CGI movie is a blast too. Also the main characters 
 of the story Samanosuke/Takeshi Kaneshiro & Jacques/Jean Reno are teh epitome of cool.
  
  Cons: Ako, the winged irritant   
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gleba2388
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 19, 2006 11:50 am PT
Review:  No doubt that Onimusha 3 should have only stayed in the PS2. This port takes out every single key 
 aspect that made ONIMUSHA 3 so perfect.
  
  The graphics are pretty much intact, but there are some differences. Some textures look blurrier, 
 some of the enemy designs looks terribly blurry as well, and the cutscenes quality isn't as great 
 as they were on the PS2. But at least, the beautiful environments, the detailed characters, the 
 astonishing fire, water, lightning and fabric details, etc are still there, almost unaltered. The 
 main complain about the port i that if you're not running the game on a super-powered PC, you'll 
 suffer from constant slowdowns when you encounter water (mainly) or a huge number of enemies (wich 
 is fairly constant that you face 6+ enemies at once) .
  
  The sound is quite amazing. Every single weapon sound, two swords touching each other, the blade 
 slashing through the enemie's flesh, everything, every single sound is still clear and as beautiful 
 as on the PS2, but they're clearer on Sony's console version.
  
  The gameplay is one of the most disappointing aspects of the port. The game worked well with the 
 2 analog sticks setup, with the free movement. The controls are good too on the PC, but controlling 
 Samanosuke with the directional arrows isn't the most pleasuring experience, and sometimes it can 
 reach the "frustrating" mark. To start with, they're less responsive, making the moving a harder 
 experience than it already is, since the lack of an analog stick makes the moving a bit cranky 
 and sometimes you'll have to stop walking, turn around, and then continue your path.
  
  The rest of the game is pretty much the same as in the PS2 version, same storyline, same quality, 
 everything (aside from the mishaps) . Still a great game while you don't bother with the slowdowns 
 or less-quality textures. A must buy in any way, but purchase it for the PS2 if you have a chance. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brain20035
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 15, 2006 3:23 pm PT
Review:  the fact that this game can be entertaining is true because it really is!
  here r some reasons:
  1. ur characters can do a lot of things and each of them has different fighting 
 styles.
  2. the graphics r just fine
  3. sound is cool
  4. gameplay is good too
  5. the story is so exciting
  and some other may say that this game sucks (sorry to say it that 
 way!) !!
  Because:
  1. there is no tutorial at the begining and u have to learn many things by yourself or wait to learn 
 them when they r no longer necessary!
  2. the game does not convince u gameplayingly (!) if u do not possess an analog gamepad or joystick
 
  3. many people get bored by all those enemies breathing down ur neck from every corner
  anyway i played this gam and i enjoyed it totally
  (by the way don't forget to turn the subtitles 
 on, because some parts r spoken in french and if the subtitles r off ur not going to understand 
 them (!) unless u know french ofcourse!!) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_trooper92
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 26, 2006 6:37 am PT
Review:  Onimusha 3 Demon Siege takes place at modern day Paris and at 500 year ago Japan. Samanosuke Akechi 
 (Samurai warrior from a Japanese army) is sent from old Japan to now a day Paris. Jacques Blanc 
 (soldier from Paris army) is sent to ancient Japan. Why??? The Genma (evil monsters) have invaded 
 these two places and created a port that made this two men travel from their homes and be the heroes 
 of the time... During the game you are obligated to warp from time to time so one player is benefit 
 by the other and vice verse as they make changes where they are. Ako is your company during all 
 the game. She will help you for many things .It has cool game play and very but very nice graphics 
 that make you say that this has a very good game only by seeing it... She will help you for many 
 things. I hope you can enjoy this game and I thank a lot Capcom and Ubisoft for making such game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darksdowdo
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jun 1, 2006 2:17 pm PT
Review:  Well lets kick it off of that they change the hook on us and put 3 of there best games on the PC 
 wow what a kicker. But in Onimusha 3 you are once again playing as the smaurial ( As you have every 
 one.) But know theres a twist you can play as a guy named jaque whos french and speak french till 
 you get some fairy and he talk english yea whatever. 
  
  There are actualy some problems with this game such as the controls know what im saying here is 
 that i must not be trined to use the controls such as you move you use the number pad like 8 for 
 up 4 for left 6 right and 2 down i just hate those controls and if you do to i suggest you go out 
 and get a Logictech Dual Action Gamepad its just a PS2 controller and the control are auto config 
 for great fit and i like it.
  
  As you all may know is that the SR ( System Requirments) are pretty low to play this but you all 
 who try to play this with a FX card you can have trouble 5700 and lower like the only way you get 
 playable is turn every thing off you can and lowest REZ which makes the game still kinda laggy 
 I would know cause ive tried it with my FX5500 and Even though i said 5700 the 5700 is just like 
 a Tiny bit better then a 5600 so i see no reason to play at like bearing 13 fps or myabe lower 
 frams. so i would change that req. from FX card to play to Geforce 6 series at least a 6200. But 
 overall and i would still give this game a try and see how you like it. But for me i love all the 
 Onimusha Games and this was my favorite one to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arcadius
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 15, 2006 12:17 am PT
Review:  I hate consoles, I don't hate console players, but this game, god help me, it's actually quite 
 good. 
  
  Of course you'd have to get past the windowed mode bug, and the publisher did forgot to tell us 
 to press alt-enter. But after that it's a bang!
  
  I don't know what happened to me, since I've always regarded most Console games I've played as 
 childish, but I got sucked into this one. Heck I've even picked up my old FIFA 98 Microsoft Sidewinder 
 gamepad to play this. (My fingers only respond to WSAD/Mouse games) . 
  
  Perhaps it was the "olde garage days" or melancholy, but I really had fun with this one, even if 
 it didn't want to install on Windows X64 the first 3 tries, but hey I judge games by the fun they 
 provide, and this one will deliver. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joubei2000
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 9, 2006 11:23 pm PT
Review:  Yes the graphics are few generation back, 
  yes the acting is totally Japanese movie style with exaggerated emotes
  
  but is this game 
 worth playing?
  
  HELL YES!!!
  
  one of the best story-lines, level advancement, combo+free-flow combat, makes this one one of the 
 coolest games - ever!!!
  
  playing both Samanosuke and Jacques makes for diverse and adds to the fun, the added dimension 
 of time into the puzzle solving is great idea and too bad not many can implement it into other 
 stories.
  
  this one is just a reminder that a good story and fun game-play makes up for older graphics, and 
 funny exaggerated body language.
  
  Fun Fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Macetein
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 8, 2006 9:04 pm PT
Review:  Yes, the only Onimusha I've played, and I liked it damn much, the game is an awesome beat'em up 
 for PC.
  The graphics are cool
  Loading times? It's like they don't exist, I don't know how Capcom come out with this but its great 
 not having loading times
  Voice cast (and cast of the game itself) it's excellent, though Jcaques' english voice is not Jean 
 Reano's voice : (... Takeshi Kaneshiro rules a lot :D
  
  The story of the game is awesome, set up in our actual days while playing with Samanosuke, and 
 in the ancient Japan while playing with Jacques, and is freshed up everytime with the dialogs, 
 cutscenes and FMVs. U get so inmerse in the game that when u reach the final boss u hate him a 
 lot and u just want to kick his ass :D
  
  The controls in PC are a little crappy... I configured the numpad for attacks and actions, and 
 moved all the time with WASD, that worked very good for me :P
  Forget about the mouse!
  
  Sound and music it's excellent, not much to talk about them... they go perfect with the game 
 
  
  Graphics are really cool, but they could've been better... and some details are ridiculous... i. e: 
 In the cutscenes Samanosuke is always wearing his old armor and old sword... and the cutscene ends 
 and Samanosuke is wearing the armor and weapon u equipped him... same happens with Jacque's... 
 I saw that and dissapointed me : (
  
  But its a good game to play, not too hard, just right, some puzzles can be a pain in the ass though 
 :P
  
  Check it out :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jedi_Lord77
Rating: 5.8
Date: Apr 26, 2006 5:43 am PT
Review:  A gripping story line and mediocre gameplay are all that keeps this game alive for me. Gameplay, 
 even, tends to be quite monotonous. Games like this that are directly ripped into a 'PC format' 
 (excuse the pun) should be left as the console original. Im quite sure that the PS2 equivalent 
 does justice to the Onimusha franchise. Maybe if the graphics and gameplay (especially the gameplay) 
 were tweaked to meet some of standards that are set by current games of the same genre then this 
 game (the PC version) would have some appeal. This however can be said for any game! To list this 
 game alongside the Prince of Persia series is disappointing on Ubisofts part. On the flipside 
 of this harsh review, the cut scene videos and fight sequences are wicked. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mohamadouf
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 15, 2006 2:02 pm PT
Review:  the game is an exact copy of the PS2 version of the game, well that not a very bad thing, on the 
 contrary the game is indeed quiet awsome all that slashing and killing four legged freaks is just 
 my type of games.
  
  the games graphics arent that impressive, instead they are blurry and faded kinda like the graphics 
 of the PS2 yet the game is still playable.
  
  the only thing that bugs me when playing Onimusha 3 is the very very horrible made AI.. ! i mean 
 its fine and all when you engage an enemy in a ranged or close combat but when you complete an 
 area and leave it to the next stage, lets say the game rests itself so when you come back to the 
 previous place you will have to fight the very same foes you killed moments ago.
  
  the weapons in the game are very cool to use, either swords or wips or whatever you which to use 
 its all up to you to decide, you collect souls or something close to that, purpel flying things 
 the more you collect the more you can upgrade you weapons or armour or the speed of absorbing the 
 souls...
  
  the story is well put, and keeps you on you finger toes till you finish the game, i was soo excited 
 to play that game that i spent so much time playing it that i didnt eat or sleep.
  
  the game is worth your money but i'd rather play it on the PS2 so controlling your character would 
 be much easier, becouse i admit it isnt that well arranged on the PC version and it was very confusing 
 to redefine them at first.
  
  peace 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ariel_king
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 14, 2006 1:33 pm PT
Review:  I played this game and I was really impresed by it but also very disappointing.
  
  Gameplay: If you played any of the Onimusha games before then you will probaly know what to expect 
 from this game. For does who don't know the series, it's basiclly a hack and slash game With a 
 lot of camera problems. The storyline isn't really long but for the hack and slash fans this game 
 wil be a blast.
  
  Graphcs: The graphics are pretty great for a game that years. The character models are good and 
 the areas are small and unveraity.
  
  Sound: The sound in this game are very screwy. Someimes it works and sometimes it doesn't. The 
 music is good and the sound effects are good.
  
  Value: You can play this game for 10 hours and then finissh the game. The storyline is really short 
 and there is no online support and coop mode.
  
  Reviewer's tilt: Overall this game is a great game for the hack and slash fans and for does how 
 aren't there is no really good reason to buy the game
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ridsco
Rating: 7.2
Date: Apr 14, 2006 5:30 am PT
Review:  I am willing to overlook a lot when dealing with ports, whether from the PC to console, or console 
 to PC. Yet this time was just utterly flabbergasted by a port that seemingly cut the visual aspect. 
 Some of the fog and lighting seemed to be missing from the PC version and on top of that what can 
 only be described as ultra low textures (honestly, dd no one at Capcom have the original's to up-convert) . 
 Nothing new added, the only benefit, which hardly weighs in as a benefit, considering the previous 
 mentioned items, was the ability to force use of AA. 
  Still with all these complaints, it was nice to play it on my PC and I wish Capcom would do this 
 more often as the hack & slash, action/adventure genre feels lacking on the PC while it appears 
 to be thriving very well on consoles. 
  
  Also of note for any others who have a P4 w/HT enabled getting stuttering during battles, turn 
 of HT. I could not beleive the game was stuttering so much. Luckily I had to turn off HT for a 
 work app, only I had forgotten to turn it back on and Onimusha was running much smoother afterwards 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raiden_976
Rating: 6.1
Date: Apr 12, 2006 12:39 pm PT
Review:  Onimusha 3 is a perfect example of why we have consoles. Fun, flashy, high on controls and low 
 on story - this is why many of us play console games. However, what we have here is a PC game, 
 with PC control options. Don't get me wrong, I loooove my keyboard and mouse, and would take them 
 over a control paddle almost any day. But for certain types of games, the beloved keyboard and 
 mouse leaves certain things to be desired. Now, before you get all twisted up, yes, I have heard 
 of joypads being used in PCs. But have you actually tried setting one up? Or buying one? The price 
 and hassle are simply not worth it.
  
  However, the flashy graphics and catchy sounds still managed to grab my attention, just as they 
 did on console. Still impressive, and the game still has the potential to be really fun, but unfortunately 
 that potential cannot be reached on it's current platform. I just hope that Ubisoft has learned 
 it's lesson with this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryaz_weaponx
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 12, 2006 12:17 pm PT
Review:  STORY  Nobunaga has returned from the dead as a demon lord & hell stop at nothing to rule the 
 world. Samanosuke is back to take down the demon lord & make a last stand but as his goal approaches 
 he is mysteriously shifted through time into the future. Whereas in the future, a soldier named 
 Jaques Blanc is shifted to the past, while fighting the demons in his time. How is this all possible 
 & will their fates collide, thats where our game begins.
  
  GRAPHICS  Onimusha provides pretty good graphics for a 3rd person perspective, although the pc 
 version has a very unstable frame rate which can be a pain at times. The game uses two very famous 
 actors for its lead Takeshi Kaneshiro as Samanosuke & Jean Reno as Jaques (The development from 
 reality to the game has been portrayed flawlessly)
  
  SOUND  The game provides us with a package of good voice actings, sound effects & some Japanese 
 music.
  
  GAMEPLAY  If you want to slay loads of demons with style & attitude then Onimusha is the game 
 for you. Both the leads in the game posses different weapons, giving you a closer look into their 
 characters whereas their special abilities take you to a new height. Combat system varies from 
 melee to ranged attacks. To fight along side, you are gifted a Tengu to help you on your journey. 
 The playtime between the characters are equally justified where as the switch between them is skillfully 
 done. Also there are loads of collectables to be found. The game also produces some challenging 
 puzzle solving which adds to the games plus points. The best part of the game is that just when 
 you feel the game is about to become repetitive, new challenges cross our paths. So with a blend 
 of different weapons, elemental powers, combos & puzzle solving the game lives up to its expectations.
 
  
  RANDOM  Just when your start menu shows up do not press any keys & a game intro will play .A cinematic 
 which puts FINAL FANTASY to shame.
  
  PROS  Good A. I, Graphics, Variety of environments, gameplay & cinematics.
  
  CONS  Unstable 
 frame rates, default controls are hard to maneuver which means youll have to reset them.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: scifi151
Rating: 6.9
Date: Apr 11, 2006 10:32 am PT
Review:  Onimusha 3 is a perfect example of why we have consoles. Fun, flashy, high on controls and low 
 on story - this is why many of us play console games. However, what we have here is a PC game, 
 with PC control options. Don't get me wrong, I loooove my keyboard and mouse, and would take them 
 over a control paddle almost any day. But for certain types of games, the beloved keyboard and 
 mouse leaves certain things to be desired. Now, before you get all twisted up, yes, I have heard 
 of joypads being used in PCs. But have you actually tried setting one up? Or buying one? The price 
 and hassle are simply not worth it.
  
  However, the flashy graphics and catchy sounds still managed to grab my attention, just as they 
 did on console. Still impressive, and the game still has the potential to be really fun, but unfortunately 
 that potential cannot be reached on it's current platform. I just hope that Ubisoft has learned 
 it's lesson with this one.
  
  In short - could be fun, if...
  
  a) You have a joypad already, or
  b) You like awkwardly mashing the buttons on your keyboard 
 in a futile attempt to complete combos and emulate the feel of an analog stick or two. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RebornJeremiah
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 22, 2006 9:42 pm PT
Review:  I just picked up this game today cause it was pretty cheap. It is a good game overall but you will 
 need ps2 controller ( you can buy logitech brand like dual action ) . The graphic of the game is 
 pretty good considering that it needs direct x 9 card to run the game. If you like hack and slash 
 kind of game, this one is for you. There are always monsters spawned for you to hack and the story 
 is pretty well written except I find the acting is pretty bad I guess. Some of puzzle is challenging 
 and it keeps you to focus in the game. Some of the level is pretty frustarting though that makes 
 me feel like I want to throw my controller sometimes. 
  
  The part that I find dissapointing is that game is really repetitive. Even the monsters and such 
 that spawned in the game are always the same. Also the port is pretty bad. I find the how the game 
 is presented is not as good as I thought it would be. The game start with a small window screen 
 hich if you want to play full screen you have to press alt+enter like windows media player. I am 
 hoping the next 2 series from CAPCOM (DMC3: SE and RE4) have a better port. 
  
  In my opinion I still like Prince of Persia series better than this game. I don't say that this 
 is a bad game. It is a good game but it has a lot of flaws for the PC version. 
  
  The sound is not bad except there is one thing that I found that don't make sense. Jacques spoke 
 French in beginning of the game while Akechi speaked English since beginning of the game. I don't 
 know how DMC3: SE compared to this game but I am hoping that it wil be better in PC. 
  
  Overall, it is a good game and worth playing!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lolita123321
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 16, 2006 2:22 pm PT
Review:  Onimusha 3 is a good game. Addictive story will not let you down. The game features many weapons 
 and combat moves, interesting storyline, grade system, some puzzles, amunition upgrade, nasty demons 
 :) . You'll be delighted by "special features" received after passing the game.
  But onimusha3 also has it's leaks. For first- enemies and combat system- it's very frustrating, 
 when demons doesn't let you to get up when they smashed you on the ground. They can even kill you 
 on the ground without letting you to guard. Second-background music- it's rather boring, monotonic, old 
 fashioned. It doesn't always create appropriate atmosphere (the only place i liked the music in 
 was the underwater temple stages) .- Third- background animation- I don't know did ps2 support that, 
 but in the pc version of the game the background is very static. 
  The game originally was a ps2 game and it was ported to pc. the game has very bad hardware support. 
 even on the lowest gfx settings i lagged sometimes . I played it on 1,9 ghz, fx5200, 512 ram . 
 There was approximately 60 fps (it slowed down in areas containing much lightning and bosses) . 
 It's a pitty that capcom doesn't care much of pc players. they didn't even changed the ps2 buttons 
 in the game to pc keyboard (you can get a bit mixed up at times) . But I'm happy that capcom at 
 least ported the game to pc's. Maybe they'll be more accurate with RE4 and DMC3. Time will show 
 :)
  All in all the game is good. The major problem is technical side of the game, but when you'll get 
 used to it, it will not create problems. Oh, and if you'll play it, I advise you to install the 
 patch ( http://www. fileplanet. com/161488/160000/fileinfo/Onimusha-3-Patch-v1.1.0.0-%5BEuropean%5D 
 ) , it solves the low fps problem sometime. You can enter the fullscreen by pressing ALT+ENTER. 
 Remember- the beginning is very boring, but eventually it will get very addictive. Have nice time 
 playing the game :) 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
