-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Open Season
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/openseason/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Boog eventually gains a good variety of skills and weapons.
 Extras include minigames and art galleries.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Game is nearly over by the time you have access to all of Boog's abilities.
 Too many inane fetch quests.
 Few levels make use of all of Boog's skills.
 Graphics and audio lack detail and personality.
 Dialogue scenes are lifeless and not funny.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep 28, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.3
Critic Score: 5.8, 3 Review (s)
User Score: 7.3, 53 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ubisoft
Genre: 3D Platformer
Date:     Sep 19, 2006 &raquo;  
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
This rendition of Open Season is a plodding adventure full of inane fetch quests and lifeless dialogue 
 scenes. 

  Ubisoft has produced a video game based on the  Open Season  animated film for every active game-playing 
 device under the sun. Although they're all action adventure games patterned after the movie and 
 share some aspects in common, the games are different from one another in terms of overall execution 
 and quality. Without question, the least interesting of the bunch is the multiplatform version 
 produced for the PC, Xbox, GameCube, PlayStation 2, and Xbox 360 platforms. It distills the movie 
 into a sequence of 25 mundane third-person levels, each involving one of the two main characters, 
 in which you fetch nonsensical items, sneak around, and toss skunks and rabbits at strategically 
 placed hunters. To add insult to injury, the character interactions from the film are depicted 
 in the game as lifeless dialogue segments put together with tepid in-game graphics and halfhearted 
 voice recordings. In light of all that, it's unlikely that fans of the movie, or anyone else, will 
 get a satisfactory amount of enjoyment out of this particular version of Open Season.  

          Open Season tells the story of a weakling deer and a tame bear that must journey through 
 the wilderness to find their way home.     

  Like most movie tie-ins, the overall level progression in the game's adventure mode follows and 
 expands on what happened in the film. The story concerns a tame grizzly bear named Boog who ends 
 up partnered with a weakling deer named Elliot after an unfortunate chain of events leaves the 
 pair stuck in the wilderness far away from Boog's otherwise cushy life as someone's pet in a small 
 town. To make their way back to town, Boog and Elliot must travel through the different parts of 
 the forest, enlist the other animals for help, and use Boog's wild abilities to scare off all of 
 the hunters that have come to participate in the newly opened hunting season. In each of the game's 
 25 levels, you will control either Boog or Elliot and find yourself fetching items for the other 
 animals while scaring off hunters using a combination of the heroic duo's own skills and the weaponlike 
 abilities of the animals that Boog has befriended. Some levels also incorporate action sequences 
 involving makeshift cannons or sprints down the mountain in contraptions such as a mine cart or 
 a raft made from an outhouse.  

  While it sounds like there's a lot to do in the game, the harsh reality is that the abundant fetch 
 quests all feel the same, and the portions involving the hunters rarely welcome the use of the 
 many skills that take so much time to gain access to. Being sent to collect things like grubs for 
 a mama skunk or a beaver's lunchbox is fine when you're asked to do so on occasion, but the game 
 is loaded with similarly dull fetch quests. Successfully completing these errands lets Boog pick 
 up and toss animals at the hunters. Initially, the only animal Boog can pick up is Elliot, who 
 is never far behind but isn't good for much except grabbing distant coin items and distracting 
 hunters. The other animals are more mischievous. Skunks can be lobbed at hunters and into houses 
 to stink up the joint, squirrels can be thrown into trees or atop hunters' heads to function as 
 nut-throwing turrets, and rabbits turn into kicking facehuggers when thrown in hunters' faces. 
 The animals also eventually teach Boog how to sniff for treats, swim, and steamroll over hunters. 
 Before Boog learns those skills, the only actions he can perform, apart from hurling Elliot, are 
 donning a disguise to hide, roaring to scare hunters, and picking up and tossing things.  

  Once you have access to all of Boog's skills and weapons, the game really gets going. Unfortunately, 
 by that point, the quest is nearly done. The first 20 levels tend to focus on isolated abilities 
 or emphasize the use of the sneak and roar abilities. It's only the last four or five levels that 
 incorporate everything. It's a shame the team producing this version of the game didn't borrow 
 a page from the PlayStation Portable version's playbook and make a single massive gameworld of 
 interconnected environments that you can wander back and forth between as new missions are revealed. 

          There are way too many fetch quests, and too few levels let you use all of Boog's skills. 
     

  Characters are introduced and the story is told through numerous dialogue scenes. These scenes 
 seem to be patterned after similar situations in the film, but they don't employ film footage or 
 any sort of prerendered video. Instead, they're put together from a combination of in-game graphics 
 and dialogue recorded specifically for the game. This poses a couple of problems. From a visual 
 standpoint, the characters and environments look crisp, but they're also extremely plain. The characters 
 aren't very detailed, their animations lack personality, and there's rarely anything going on in 
 the environment aside from streams flowing by or butterflies fluttering around. During dialogue 
 scenes, these plain-looking characters stand around and make modest face and hand gestures while 
 speaking their lines. Meanwhile, the voice performances turned in by the soundalike actors hired 
 to mimic Martin Lawrence, Ashton Kutcher, and the other film actors generally lack passion and 
 do a poor job of making situations seem humorous or tense. The only time a scene is portrayed with 
 sufficient energy is when it's handled within one of the action levels where you can actually control 
 Boog and Elliot as they shoot hunters with makeshift cannons or freefall down a portion of the 
 mountain aboard a rickety vehicle.  

  The graphics and audio merely get the job done and rarely tickle the senses. The levels are large 
 and have an almost cel-shaded look, and the characters move fluidly and resemble their film counterparts, 
 but there's not a whole lot of detail evident in either the environments or the characters. Boog 
 and Elliot move matter-of-factly, and all of the animals and enemies patrol their small patches 
 of territory without much fanfare. In the surrounding environment, the only sweet touches of note 
 are the blades of grass that move aside as you walk through them and the streams and lakes in some 
 levels that employ impressive reflection and wave motion effects. The sound effects weren't taken 
 from the film, but they're suitably upbeat. Background atmosphere comes mainly from the ambient 
 forest noise, since there isn't any music other than the riffs that play when Boog is spotted. 
 On the whole, Open Season looks and sounds like any other generic 3D adventure game featuring cute 
 characters and forest-themed environments.  

  Everything is just a little nicer in the PC, Xbox, and Xbox 360 versions of the game, compared 
 with the GameCube and PlayStation 2 versions. The graphics are crisper and exhibit a bit more detail, 
 thanks to the use of higher-resolution textures and the increased polygon and pixel counts afforded 
 by the beefier hardware. The frame rates are steadier too. Boog and the other animals aren't more 
 personable in these versions, but their fur and other body features are easier to make out. In 
 addition, the environments benefit from an increase in the amount of grass and other plant life, 
 as well as from better light sourcing and improved water effects. The audio in these versions also 
 trumps the audio in the PS2 and GameCube versions, if only slightly, due to the implementation 
 of surround sound and a greater variety of animal and atmospheric noises. Out of the five versions, 
 the Xbox 360 game looks the best. Its textures are cleaner and noticeably more detailed than those 
 in the Xbox and PC versions, especially when viewed on a high-definition TV. That's not to suggest 
 that the game looks impressive when compared with other Xbox 360 games, but it is a nice visual 
 upgrade over what the over versions of Open Season have on offer.  

  It's too bad that the main adventure mode is so weak, because the game also includes a number of 
 bonus features that would otherwise bring a fair amount of added value to a movie tie-in like this 
 one. The main story takes only about four hours to finish, but individual levels can be played 
 over and over again so that you can seek out any remaining forest badges and revisit your favorite 
 moments and dialogue scenes. Apart from the 25 main levels, there are seven competitive minigames 
 to enjoy, involving tasks such as log rolling and flower picking. You are limited to challenging 
 the CPU in the PC version, but the versions available for stand-alone consoles let as many as four 
 players hook up controllers and participate. The minigames are good for a few minutes of play here 
 and there, especially if you're able to recruit some friends to play with, though it would have 
 been nice if the developer had implemented online play for the platforms that support Internet 
 connectivity. Rounding out the list of bonus features is a large library of animal facts, concept 
 drawings, and movie stills that gradually builds as you collect the numerous badges hidden throughout 
 the adventure mode.  

          Action stages provide an energetic break from the boring fetch levels and tepid dialogue 
 scenes.     

  Xbox 360 owners may take additional solace in the way achievement points are doled out in that 
 particular version of the game. You're awarded on an almost continual basis just for completing 
 levels, befriending new animals, and redeeming coins to purchase better skills. Still more are 
 given for finishing the game, collecting all of the badges and coins in each level, and putting 
 together complete collections of the different ranger badge categories. Anyone remotely competent 
 at video games can probably satisfy all 46 achievements and rack up the full 1,000 points in five 
 or six hours.  

  Ultimately, it's hard to imagine anyone having a good time with this version of Open Season. The 
 action is repetitive and dull, almost to the point of coming across as patronizing, and it takes 
 forever for levels to come along that let you make use of all of Boog's abilities. Added to that, 
 the overall presentation falls so flat that the game never comes close to capturing one iota of 
 the whimsy that even the commercials promoting the film had.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (2 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Calist0
Rating: 8.4
Date: Oct 20, 2006 1:30 pm PT
Review:  I haven't had so much fun since Monkey Island. The game deserves a much better rank. It's to short 
 though and need more space to explore. The graphics are very good considering it's a cartoon, the 
 characters are well done ( i love that fluffy bear) but too much in-games can be frustrating. The 
 ideea of the game is excelent although i like Cabela's Deer Hunting :D. I recomand to rent it first 
 becouse you'll never know, i know i did ... with every game i played even i've waited it for so 
 long ( Dreamfall) . So do not ignore it , i guarantee tons of fun. Cheers 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Clarke_311
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 8, 2006 2:27 pm PT
Review:  Open Season was a very, very, very good game. It always wanted to me to keep playing. While the 
 graphics aren't the best, if you look past that you can clearly see that it is a amazing game. 
 It's also a game that you could play over and over again and still isn't boring. This is one of 
 my favourite computer games that I own and you should definitely buy this game, because you will 
 not be dissapointed!!! The game also has 25 missions, so you have a lot to do, and the minigames 
 are very fun, unlike some games minigames. My only complaints about the game are that the graphics 
 are not the best and that Boog can't jump and that's not very much and like I said before, you 
 will not be dissapointed!! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
