-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Operation Flashpoint: Resistance
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/operationflashpointresistance/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jul 19, 2002
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.1
Critic Score: 8.1, 21 Review (s)
User Score: 8.9, 640 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Codemasters
Developer: Bohemia Int.
Genre: Modern Tactical Shooter
Date:     Jul 10, 2002
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
A dual focus on immersion and complex military action returns in force with Operation Flashpoint: 
 Resistance, a large and entertaining expansion pack for the original game. 

 Some tactical shooters skimp on story and atmosphere, instead giving you piles of real-world weapons 
 and gear, hoping that alone will suffice to hold your interest. Not Bohemia Interactive's Operation 
 Flashpoint: Cold War Crisis, which generated a big buzz in the shooter community and earned lots 
 of critical praise and awards when it was released last year. Operation Flashpoint let you play 
 as an individual soldier, but it also let you command other troops, drive trucks and tanks, fly 
 attack helicopters, and much more. It included dozens of interesting missions and a powerful mission 
 editor. Just as importantly, it took great advantage of the scene-setting and storytelling techniques 
 found in the best traditional single-player shooters, creating a memorable fictional world. Sometimes 
 Operation Flashpoint's attempts at immersing you in that world fell flat, but the game definitely 
 earned an "A" for effort. That same dual focus on immersion and complex military action returns 
 in force with Operation Flashpoint: Resistance, a large and entertaining expansion pack for the 
 original game.           The island of Nogova feels like a living, breathing place.    

 Operation Flashpoint already received one expansion pack of sorts, the Red Hammer campaign found 
 in the Gold and Gold Upgrade editions of the game. Unlike the Red Hammer campaign, Resistance goes 
 further than simply adding new missions. Requiring the original Operation Flashpoint to play, Resistance 
 incorporates all the patches so far released for the original game and also includes a number of 
 other significant upgrades. The visuals have been improved, and the multiplayer code that caused 
 problems for more than a few people has been tweaked, too. You also get a new 20-mission campaign, 
 five stand-alone missions, nine multiplayer missions, new vehicles, new weapons, and a huge new 
 island on which to battle.   

  As with Operation Flashpoint, an interesting story ties the game's combat encounters together. 
 Resistance plays out a few years before the story of Operation Flashpoint, letting you assume the 
 role of Victor Troska, a former Special Forces soldier. Having grown weary of fighting, Troska 
 retires to the sleepy, provincial island of Nogova, a fictional area that readily calls to mind 
 the Balkans. The sympathetic Troska's peace and quiet don't last long. A split between hard-line 
 Communists and reformers causes Nogova's government to collapse, whereupon Soviet forces led by 
 a brutal commander arrive to establish a puppet government. Only Troska is capable of organizing 
 and leading a militia resistance.   

  The story is told through the same kind of lengthy in-engine cutscenes that were hallmarks of Operation 
 Flashpoint. The extensive opening sequence, for instance, introduces you to Victor's quiet, cozy 
 life and the tranquil simplicity of Nogova. This makes it all the more dramatic when the Soviets 
 rush in, guns blazing. While Resistance deserves credit for taking such a cinematic approach and 
 often succeeding, some problems mar the storytelling. Sometimes the cutscene direction can look 
 pretty clumsy or resort to hoary clichs like focusing on a sped-up clock to indicate the 
 passage of time. The cutscenes also suffer from long load times, and the scenes themselves can 
 be overly lengthy to the point of tedium.   

  Still, the storytelling works well overall, thanks to some dramatic twists and bloody surprises, 
 as well as some tough decisions you have to make. Early in the game, for example, you'll have to 
 decide whether to betray a partisan fighting against the Soviets -- doing so might save some friends 
 from imminent execution. Do you reveal the partisan's location, try to talk your way out of the 
 jam, or run for a gun?           Calm before the Soviet storm.    

 Even outside these sorts of dramatic turning points, your decisions will often carry over from one 
 mission to another. Since you end up leading a ragtag militia of ex-soldiers and simple country 
 folk, weapons and reinforcements will be in very short supply. You'll need to scavenge gear and, 
 more daringly, steal tanks and other vehicles from the enemy, all while treating your men as irreplaceable 
 assets and not simple cannon fodder. All at once, this adds realism, heightened drama, and some 
 interesting tactical decisions to the game. Do you spend precious time collecting weapons from 
 dead enemies to stash for later use, or do you leave the weapons and flee before more enemies arrive? 
   

  If you don't find or bring along the right weapons during a mission or if you lose too many men, 
 you'll need to restart earlier in the campaign to have a chance of success. On the other hand, 
 you'll sometimes spend time filling crates or trucks with all the guns and ammo you can scavenge, 
 only to find to your dismay that none of them are accessible in the next mission, after all. Making 
 things even tougher, your comrades aren't particularly bright, so preserving your men can be more 
 difficult than necessary. (For that matter, AI pathfinding remains an intermittent problem, too.) 
            Commanding your men, particularly in vehicles, can be a real chore.    

 You'll find a lot of interesting variety in Resistance's missions. You'll flee across the countryside 
 in a stolen truck while being pursued by the Soviets, defend against ambushes, attack convoys, 
 assault bases, and more. Most of the missions offer fun and sophisticated challenges, though some 
 are much too tough (why do Troska and his tiny band often pick the biggest, toughest targets?) , 
 and you get only one elective save per mission. As in Operation Flashpoint, some missions seem 
 to suffer from scripting bugs that prevent the mission from playing out properly. Some of the missions 
 are poorly paced, too, requiring you to use the time-compression feature or else spend boring stretches 
 running through forests or just loitering around and waiting for the enemy. Still, the varied challenges 
 should generally keep you engaged and entertained.   

  In carrying out your missions, you'll eventually gain access to a big arsenal of weapons and vehicles, 
 many seen before in Operation Flashpoint. New personal weapons include the FM-FAL, Uzi, Glock 17, 
 Beretta 92F, and Skorpion Sa61, among others. The new vehicles in Resistance primarily include 
 civilian transportation, like a bus or motorcycle -- nothing to get really excited about, but interesting 
 nonetheless.   

  Vehicle controls and physics remain simplified affairs. Sometimes the physics get downright weird, 
 actually, with vehicles bouncing or sliding around for no reason. AI teammates still drive tanks 
 like they're bumper cars.   

  Just as in Operation Flashpoint, accessing your weapons and interacting with vehicles or the environment 
 can be an unnecessarily slow and clumsy affair since the original game's action menu system remains 
 in place. When people are shooting at you, you simply don't often have time to scroll through your 
 options. The same sort of problem is even more pronounced when you try to command your troops using 
 a cumbersome menu system, particularly when the mission calls for your men to use vehicles.   

 
  As in Operation Flashpoint, the multiplayer component of Resistance offers well-varied objectives 
 and can be a blast -- provided you find players skilled in realistic military tactics. This is a 
 game where team coordination and careful observation really pay off, creating tense, dramatic matches 
 with surprises around every corner. The multiplayer code has been optimized for Resistance, though 
 you're still sometimes subject to game-killing lag even if you have a good ping. On some maps, 
 you can also get stuck inside walls or walk through them at times, too. Needless to say, it's frustrating 
 to get a bead on an enemy and then suddenly get stuck in some strange map-editor void, unable to 
 move or hit your target.   

  Operation Flashpoint's visuals were loved by some, loathed by others. On the one hand, you got 
 some nice skins for weapons, vehicles, and characters, along with memorable scenery. On the other 
 hand, some of the 3D models looked blocky, and the terrain could seem rather sparse and washed 
 out. Resistance offers somewhat improved visuals, including higher-resolution textures, more ground 
 cover, and other decent but not stunning upgrades. Sadly, 3D character models (particularly the 
 hands) could still use some work, and some faces are reused repeatedly. For that matter, many weapon 
 models still don't look too hot, either. Clipping is also a problem, with vehicles sometimes partially 
 sinking down into the ground.   

  Overall, despite the enhancements, the Operation Flashpoint graphics engine hasn't aged particularly 
 gracefully, and the visuals can't compete with the best that the shooter genre has to offer, such 
 as those in Return to Castle Wolfenstein. Then again, most shooters don't offer you the enormous 
 vistas that Resistance does. The slightly improved visuals can also come at a high cost, potentially 
 causing major slowdowns at the highest-quality level.           Varied missions include night infiltrations. 
    

 Still, the artistic design of a game is at least as important as any technical virtues of the graphics. 
 Like Operation Flashpoint, Resistance succeeds well in that regard. The island of Nogova itself 
 is beautiful, and plenty of little details bring scenes to life. Colorful architecture, working 
 taillights on cars, blue-black exhaust billowing from trucks, clouds floating overhead -- little 
 details like these help create a convincing, memorable environment. You'll spot some humorous touches, 
 too, like Troska wearing an Operation Flashpoint T-shirt early in the game.   

  Resistance's audio shows a similar regard for the little things that count. Footstep sound effects 
 vary depending on the type of terrain, and chirping crickets and other ambient noises bring life 
 to the surroundings. The weapons tend to sound a bit generic and bland, though. The game's interesting 
 musical score generally does an effective job setting the mood. On the whole, voice-overs are improved 
 over those in Operation Flashpoint; this time around, you're less likely to snicker at poorly delivered 
 dialogue. You have to wonder why Troska has a British accent, though.   

  Generally, Operation Flashpoint: Resistance, despite any upgrades or changes, enjoys the same strengths 
 and suffers from the same weaknesses as Operation Flashpoint itself. In other words, despite some 
 real problems, Resistance offers a memorable setting and the sort of intense, intelligent challenges 
 that can make tactical shooters so much fun.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (13 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: titanic100
Rating: 9
Date: May 8, 2008 5:47 am PT
Review:  Operation flashpoint: Resistance is a very good game and add-on for Operation flashpoint 
  
  Operation flashpoint: Resistance has more missions and also new vehicles to drive and fly e. g. 
 a resistance helicopter which has two main routers. 
  
  The graphics
  
  The graphics are very good and when you blow up a tank or any other vehicle it blows up but keeps 
 it shape sort of the metal bends to indicate that the vehicle is un drivable and you can't drive 
 or fly it, 
  
  The sound 
  
  The sound is amazing the explosion sounds are very good and also when you are shoot you can hear 
 the bullets hit you and also when you are dead or the soldier you have just shoot is dead you can 
 see the blood on his face or legs (depends where you shoot him) So my suggestion is that this up 
 grade is very good and you should buy it but if you don't have the original operation flashpoint 
 it will not work. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kragspire
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 30, 2008 6:26 pm PT
Review:  Operation: Flashpoint was a great experience that kept me playing for hours. The game contained 
 tons of depth and provided plenty of tactical combat gameplay. OFP: Resistance carries on that 
 engaging style of play and adds a brand new story. You play a retired soldier who is looking to 
 settle down for the long run. That dream is short lived, as the Russians come to seize your island 
 and install a dictator into power. While this sounds familiar to Cold War Crisis' campaign, there 
 is just one twist. This time you will not have the backing of NATO to fight your enemy and must 
 rely on insurgent tactics.
  
  The missions start out simple with the main character escaping the bullying of a Russian patrol 
 outside your house. This leads to a choice of giving into the Russians, talking your way out, or 
 run for your shotgun and start taking names. This leads to a hunt for the rebels, who take your 
 prior military experience into hand and proclaim you leader. You will take on a wide arrange of 
 missions to disrupt the Russians and gain back the island. You will run into some assistance from 
 the Americans in later missions, but for the most part you must fly as a solo faction. Each man, 
 vehicle, and weapon is priceless and must be stockpiled from picking the battlefield clean. I really 
 enjoyed playing the underdog in despair, as it made you think hard before committing a strategy 
 on any particular mission. 
  
  Some of the missions in OFP: Resistance are quite challenging. One such mission comes to mind where 
 you need to take back a town full of infantry and armor against your small squad. Keeping in line 
 with the gameplay of Cold War Crisis, this adds to precise planning on your part, where a minor 
 mistake can lead to defeat. To top it off, you will only be able to save once per mission, so make 
 it count. 
  
  There are some improvements made in Resistance. Multiplayer code has been optimized, where before 
 you may of experienced some horrible lag. The other big thing is the updated textures. There wasn't 
 much of a difference when comparing Cold War Crisis to Resistance however, and really it still 
 looks like the same game. It would have been nice to see some updated models and perhaps some new 
 military vehicles also. The sound quality is decent, providing some music from a bunch of no name 
 bands to fill in cut scenes. Samples for guns could have been more intimidating, but tank shells 
 still leave a satisfying grin on your face when they hit targets.
  
  While it may feel like more of the same, it really isn't. Resistance is a great expansion that 
 adds a long campaign, providing a great story and new tactics to deploy. Anyone serious about OFP 
 should add this to their library, provided you don't already have the gold edition. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: normal_man
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 1, 2007 3:53 am PT
Review:  ... after these 6 years after the release of oryginal Operation Flashpoint game and few months 
 later an awesome expansion pack with nice single player campaign and missions but also delivers 
 an OUTSTANDING multiplayer with a lot of modes and missions. After these years I still see servers 
 when people playing in that game. Maybe this is not so amazing number like in ArmA: Combat Operations 
 but it proving something. This game lives forever...
  
  Im playing in these series almost from beginning, since the release of demo, the buying a oryginal 
 OFP game and then an Resistance expansion pack. I love that game since the first install :) But 
 now, when already play an over 250 hours in that game I write these reviev, 'cos now Im think the 
 OFP community is slowly dying : ( and I know about this game almost everything. I really look out 
 for that word but Im think Im almost a veteran. So let's start...
  
  First word about single-player. In this side expansion pack continue the great way and delivers 
 and great campaign with so gorgeous atmosphere and story that you can play it and play again. In 
 first OFP game we control the US soldiers fighting with Commies on fictional islands. Now, the 
 Guba - main nemesis - back and the story says that he invade the peaceful island of Nogova with 
 his forces. Now, we control a Victor Troska, ex-special soldiers which have to lead an Resistance 
 soldiers to victory against Commies... In many ways campaign is much harder than in normal OFP 
 but after beating each missions you felling awesome. We'll be fighting is air, on ground, by foot 
 or in tank.... really deep modern-warfare simulator. I like the SP but my truly love is a multiplayer...
 
  
  In that mode I've eat my stomach :P I spended here over 200 hours as I say ealier. I played in 
 a HUGE count of missions, on different servers and at several mods (btw. modyfications in that 
 game are truly MARVELOUS!) . I've gained an fantastic expierience. Several times I tryed to play 
 in a DM or TDM mods, more often a CTI or CTF modes which I also play for few hours and have fun 
 but I always play in a cooperation mode. In this a group of players have the objective to complete 
 which can be very various like: destroy a gas station, ambush and destroy convoy and many others. 
 I've never counted how many MP missions our community have maded but I count this in thousands. 
 Some of them are really great, others are stupid and cannot be completed. You need to play in MP 
 mode with great guys which have a good tactic to fell it... Sumaring, after these years OFP is 
 still rocking my pants. Audio-video is not important, I LOVE GAMEPLAY! OFP FOREVER! :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RobtBizzle
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 31, 2007 4:06 am PT
Review:  AMAZING UPGRADE!
  
  this upgrade is full of add-ons.
  new vehicles, units, weapons, maps, mission editor is advanced, new missions, and a great campaign. 
 This is a massive upgrade especially the new map!
  Which includes new buildings, new areas. This time there is a short campaign but it can be completed 
 in different ways which is not particularly exciting. This time u'll be an ordinary civilian until 
 the soviets launch their attack. You quickly become a resistance leader and try to fight off the 
 soviets. Some off the levels are very hard. You sometimes start with nothing and have to fight 
 off tones of enemies. The new missions are quite fun, some of them are pilote mission, infiltration, 
 assault...
  
  With this upgrade the graphics are a bit better then usual. The detail, faces, environment... I 
 think if u enjoyed FP then this is definitely a must. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ase290406
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 27, 2007 10:00 pm PT
Review:  I remember the first time I had my hands on OFP Resistance. I was drafted into the Military and 
 the first thing I saw in the game, were things from my training. That amazed me, I saw FPS before 
 but never like this....
  I was always frustrated with how the hell 20 mg's take out a mammoth tank in the C&amp; C series. 
 It was a dream come true. Today in 2007 if you have a weak copmuter, or even if you don't, playing 
 a modded OFPR is a real joy. From modern conflicts in Europe, to the Mid-East, Africa, Vietnam, 
 WWII, Cold war, Asian conflicts, there is an OFPR mod out there for any taste. And the graphics 
 look like a new game, in many of those mods.
  
  If your'e into wargaming, or just wanna see if you'll be a good soldier, this is for you. And I'm 
 not even talking about the 5km view distance, and that's in a game from 2001. What it's like to 
 be a soldier? Here is your answer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GenTom
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 24, 2006 7:02 am PT
Review:  Last year, seemingly out of nowhere, Bohemia Interactive Studios created one of the most highly 
 regarded tactical shooters to ever grace the PC. Operation Flashpoint's gritty combat, innovative 
 gameplay, and deep story earned it accolades from a number of industry publications while winning 
 the hearts of gamers everywhere. Operation Flashpoint: Resistance is an expansion pack that closely 
 follows the original in concept and design, which should please both fans and casual gamers. In 
 fact, Resistance goes beyond the normal expansion recipe by offering a game so complete it's hard 
 to call it an expansion. There are a multitude of added features, including a brand new 100 sq. 
 kilometer island, 20 mission campaigns, five stand-alone missions, new weapons and vehicles, an 
 enhanced graphics engine, and a handful of multiplayer maps and game types. This added depth makes 
 Resistance the new benchmark in expansion packs. A Resistance for Everyone Like the original, Resistance 
 comes loaded with both single-player and multiplayer features. The single-player game comes in 
 two versions: a finely-scripted campaign which takes place during the cold war, and five independent 
 missions packed with in-your-face combat if you don't feel up to the challenge of a campaign. The 
 campaign focuses on the life of Victor Troska, a retired Russian Special Forces soldier whose home 
 island of the Independent Republic of Nogova is invaded by Soviet aggressors. The events on Nogova 
 occur a few years prior to Operation Flashpoint's Cold War Crisis. You can play Victor from either 
 a first- or third-person point of view as he leads Nogova's resistance through 20 challenging missions, 
 from blowing up bridges and aircraft, to stealing supplies and pilfering tanks. Missions can be 
 downright challenging, and offer plenty of objectives, adding multiple layers to an already difficult 
 combat environment. The Trap mission, for example, is a combined arms operation where Victor and 
 his forces must assault a town full of Soviets waiting for his onslaught. Trap's goal, like the 
 most other missions, is to formulate a plan of attack, then time it perfectly. The challenge lies 
 in coordinating these maneuvers during missions filled with battlefield mayhem and chaos. In some 
 cases, however, players may want to avoid combat altogether. One slip up, and Victor's whole operation 
 goes south.
  
  Similar in atmosphere to most insurgencies and revolutions of the 80s, the real challenge lies 
 in collecting enough gear to react to and overcome the Soviet presence. Starting out, Victor's 
 troops are deplete of weapons, equipment, and tanks. Foraging for supplies often dictates how each 
 mission gets carried out, where precious troop resources are utilized for both completing mission 
 objectives and picking up gear from dead Soviets. The added ability to grab and drop weapons, ammo, 
 and equipment makes arming the resistance something that couldn't get done in the original game. 
 Plundering the proper gear helps build an effective guerrilla force powerful enough to repel the 
 Russians. Coming from a military background well versed in unconventional warfare (UW) , I found 
 Resistance's story about guerrilla warfare (GW) to be quite good. (For those less versed in military 
 science, UW best describes operations conducted for military, political, or economic gain or a 
 combination thereof, within an enemy occupied area, and making use of indigenous inhabitants, irregular 
 soldiers, using local or enemy resources. UW may also be supported by an external source such as 
 US backing in Kurdistan, likewise, in Nogova.) For the most part, Resistance's story and missions 
 follow these elements. Though the missions unfold in a traditional linear format, early in the 
 campaign, a pseudo-dynamic sequence allows players to make a choice on which side Victor will join 
 -- the Soviet Army or the Resistance fighters. At some point, however, Victor rejoins the resistance 
 and the linear game based on the tenants of guerilla warfare, continues.
  
  Resistance also offers improved dialogue and voice acting. While sometimes tedious to watch, the 
 cutscenes add drama, which actually helps drive the story. By the end of the game, you'll feel 
 as though you've played through an epic movie. Without giving away any spoilers, the campaign ends 
 with climatic thunder and is a gaming moment that players will long remember.
  
  As a bonus, Resistance's five independent single-player missions are designed for the serious Operation 
 Flashpoint fan. They are extremely difficult, with each mission representing a variety of mission 
 objectives and combined arms mission types, from escorting a convoy of supplies, zipping around 
 the map and avoiding the enemy in a Hummer, flying cargo to the resistance, or attacking an enemy 
 base with an Apache helicopter. New vehicles have been added for Resistance, including a motorcycle, 
 boats, cars, and more mechanized vehicles. Resistance also adds a few new weapons to its already 
 packed arsenal, like the FM-FAL, Uzi, Skorpion submachine gun, and the Glock 17 and Barreta 92F 
 pistols. The 100 square kilometer map is larger and is dotted with more bridges and waterways. 
 Because of its extended size, some missions take longer than necessary. Thankfully, there's a time 
 compression feature that allows fast movement from one coordinate to the next. System requirements 
 can run a bit steep. In one of the single-player missions, CO2: Battlefields, a heavy duty combined-arms 
 battle where the objective is to take the hill from the enemy, while holding it against a counterattack, 
 a 1 GHz machine or faster is required. However, Bohemia Interactive warns those with slower computers 
 before they jump into this mission, in case they want to adjust their settings in advance. If there 
 was a hit on the original Operation Flashpoint, it was its lean graphics engine. Resistance totally 
 revamps the engine with detailed terrain features and character models now looking smoother at 
 higher resolutions, with more trees, foliage, and clouds for added depth. However, unless you possess 
 a super fast processor and graphics card, the game will chug from lag. Audio also suffers from 
 a number of bugs. EAX and multi-channel support work rather poorly. Disabling hardware acceleration 
 did help, but not enough to resurrect surround sound capability. Thankfully, neither shortcoming 
 is enough to stifle gameplay.
  
  Resistance also improves on Operation Flashpoint's multiplayer shortcomings. GameSpy Arcade offers 
 online support for 16+ players. As with the original game, multiplayer also supports TCP / IP and 
 LAN. More importantly, the interface has been revamped with improved menu features, including an 
 in-game browser, GameSpy servers, and an easier way to set up player roles. Not only does Resistance 
 run more stable; joining a game is now a no-brainer. With the addition of a handful of new missions 
 along with the original maps, Resistance turns into a big league online experience. In addition, 
 the nifty mission editor gets an overhaul with innovative features like show textures and show 
 IDs. Operation Flashpoint: Resistance is a rare gem of an expansion. Priced to move, OpF fans will 
 definitely enjoy the added features and challenging gameplay. Grab your copy and join the movement! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: timbo0827
Rating: 8.4
Date: Aug 2, 2006 3:53 pm PT
Review:  Operation Flashpoint is one great game and its second expansion pack, Resistance, is worth every 
 cent. If you liked the original Flashpoint game then you will enjoy this.
  
  GAMEPLAY: Very fun but still a challenging game. If you are used to the originals's gameplay then 
 you are not missing much from this here. Great gameplay that will last you hours if you enjoy this 
 game. 
  
  GRAPHICS: Same as before. Not bad but also not really great.
  
  SOUND: Not bad but can get annoying. Guns sound very close to their real life version but the constant 
 radio messages make it get a little old.
  
  VALUE: Very good. New weapons, new campaign, and new vehicles make this a title you must have. 
 Also they finally have pistols in this game.
  
  TILT: The new features in this game are nice but still feels similar to the original version of 
 this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Geon106
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 1, 2006 9:26 am PT
Review:  This game is amazing, it has unlimited gameplay using the game editor, realistic campaign missions 
 which can be very hard at times, a fairly good graphics engine which does have some minor flaws 
 and are a bit choppy but do the job very well and does make for smooth gameplay.
  
  If you install the Gold Version of the original which has the add on pack, then install Resistance, 
 you'll have a game like no other, this game packs lots of action in very atmospheric maps, this 
 is the type of game which is fun to just drive around, let alone blowing s**t up.
  
  Conclusion: Worth buying and playing, although for more advanced players as some levels are hard. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Samrulez91
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 5, 2006 6:40 am PT
Review:  When I first bought this game, I thought of it as another average war game. But as I got more stuck 
 in, I found it to be, in my opnion, of the best games ever! The campaigns are excellent, the maps 
 are well done and the action is amazing!
  
  I haven't played the campaign much, I usually make my own missions using the incredily easy-to-use 
 mission editor. The graphics and animations could have been better, but this hasn't stopped this 
 game from becoming a true classic. The size of maps are incredible, the bigger ones can take around 
 an hour to cross by car! Although they are large they are not filled with millions of objects, 
 just small towns and villages and loads of foilage.
  
  The directory of addons and user missions for the game is unbelievable! There is 1000+ addons and 
 hundreds of user missions. Irs the mods that adds the few points on to make this game a 10/10. 
 There variety of weapons and vehicles is amazing even without the mods. But with the mods, it calls 
 for hundred's of different of game styles, even ones that were not meant to be (e. g. racing) !
 
  
  I advise you buy this game and download lots of mods! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Evil_Vincent
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 18, 2005 6:37 am PT
Review:  One of the best games ever. My friend bought this games over to test out my new pc. I thought aww 
 crap, another of his war games. put it in, loaded it up, WOW!! Bejesus! this is amazing. 
  The graphics aren't amazing but it is so ridiculously fun!! The mapmaker is really great and once 
 you know how to use it you can create missions that the creators could hardly better!!
  You can get it for a fiver very easily so if you see it, BUY IT!!. Cannot wait for the sequel now!! 
 One of the best games ever, this can never get dated!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TripleOnline
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 20, 2005 10:08 am PT
Review:  When i played cold war crisis the first time, it was amazing. I started to play Operation Flashpoint 
 at a friends house, so the game was so good that i decided to buy it. Red Hammer was huge, and 
 resistance was even better, I love this game.
  I say to everyone that want a fun, realistic, great war game buy this.
  Great graphics, great 
 sound. great gameplay ( you can drive any kind of military thing you want ) you can build your own 
 mission, and thats very fun, you can play single missions, you can play campaign or on the internett. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jason210
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 20, 2005 1:12 pm PT
Review:  Operation Flashpoint was revolutionary when it came out in 2001, and the fact that it is still 
 in popular use today is testimony to its value in terms of money and game play. This is a very 
 clean and effiecient 3D engine, that runs today like a well-oiled machine. The "Resistance" add-on 
 functions as both an enhancement and an update to the original, with a new campaign and some extra 
 missions. The update improves the game engine, introducing better graphics with higher resolution 
 textures, while other enhancements include new vehicles, new scenery & buildings, and new, huge 
 island called Nogova.
  
  What makes Operation Flashpoint special is the level of immersivity offered by the non-linear 
 nature of game engine, the extensive AI system, and the ability to get in and drive or fly various 
 replicas of NATO and Soviet vehicles. The non-linear aspect of the game engine means that instead 
 completing levels in a linear way, the player is instead given a set of objectives to achieve, 
 and left largely to his own devices as to how to complete them. This gives rise to a sense of infinite 
 possibility and freedom, which is not often felt in other games. 
  
  The player can be in charge of an AI squad of up 11 which he can control by giving orders through 
 radio. The orders are presented to the player by what is probably the most extensive menu system 
 in any first person game, allowing the player almost full control over AI. There are probably around 
 60 to 80 basic commands, and the menu is very easy to use.
  
  The game can best be described as virtual reality war, and it gives the player an unparallelled 
 sense of freedom and adventure, that perhaps recalls for many the early adventures of childhood 
 - the wide games we might have played when in the boy scouts, or in a paint ball game or something 
 like that. The fact that you can be part of a crew, or go off on your own and try to be the hero 
 or do whatever else you want makes this game extreme fun.
  
  One of the reasons for this games longevity is the fact that there are so many different ways you 
 can play it. The game engine architecture makes it easy for those into scripting to do just about 
 anything they want with it. Thanks to a handful of dedicated developers, huge multIplayer maps 
 have been developed, such as "Battlefield" and "Conquer the Island". The "Conquer the Island" map 
 functions almost like a completely new strategy based game, where two teams set out on different 
 parts of the island capturing towns from AI, and eventually must fight so that only one prevails. 
 The ulitmate objective is to destroy the enemy's Mobile Headquarters. The average time is one of 
 these games is 1 to 4 hours! 
  
  By todays standards, the graphics are limited, although developers have been busy with add-ons 
 that allow reflective water and other special effects, and during the last four years a massive 
 stockpile of add-on maps and highly detailed cold war vehicles has grown. There are also a number 
 of upgrades available for download, taking the current version to 1.96. When this game is upgraded 
 and had a few "must-have" add-ons installed, it still wins other any other existing war game in 
 2005 and looks set to continue being popular for at least another year or two. By the time, let's 
 just hope that Operation Flashpoint 2 , which we've all been waiting for, actually comes out and 
 that it builds on what made this game a success!
  
  Jason De Donno, April 2005 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Epicsoldier
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 25, 2004 2:19 am PT
Review:  When this game came out, it sure was like no other game. I think this was one of the first first 
 person shooter games i've played that i've actually got to drive the jeep, and interact with things 
 the way it should be. The actual gameplay in single player is pretty good, the story keeps you 
 addicted and makes you feel like your right into the game. The graphics at the time was good, the 
 enviroment showed alot of well done colors. The sound tho wasn't the greatest, it had it's problems, 
 but oh well. It's overall a good game, and doesn't take a super computer to run it either. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
