-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Operation Blockade
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/operationblockade/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun 19, 2002
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 3.6
Critic Score: 4.7, 8 Review (s)
User Score: 6.6, 36 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Atari
Developer: Screaming Games
Genre: Rail Shooting
Date:     May 13, 2002
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
If you were to buy, install, and actually enjoy Operation Blockade, you'd need to be at least partially 
 insane. 

 Forget everything you know about budget-priced turret shooters, such as Beachhead 2002 and Beachhead 
 2000 before it. Of course, by "budget-priced turret shooter," we're referring to $20 games in which 
 you control a stationary gun turret and rotate 360 degrees to shoot at oncoming enemies. Forget 
 that they look bad, sound terrible, and are mind-numbing wastes of time. Wait, remember that last 
 part, because you'll want to consider it before you play Operation Blockade, Infogrames' budget-priced 
 turret shooter -- and also (unfortunately) the first of a new series of budget-priced turret shooters. 
           Operation Blockade has some surprisingly good graphics...    

 For what it's worth, Operation Blockade actually looks quite good. The game takes place in a fictitious 
 World War II-era conflict in which you play as a lone soldier in a gun turret who must shoot down 
 enemy planes, ships, and infantry. You'll have to shoot down WWII biplane dogfighters, bombers, 
 battleships, transport ships, and infantry soldiers who will dig in and launch mortars at you, 
 and just about all of these enemies are modeled surprisingly well and look authentic in spite of 
 the game's fictitious setting. You'll blow them up with the game's miserly four-weapon arsenal, 
 but ships and planes actually blow up with some pretty spectacular 3D explosions, complete with 
 debris and smoke effects. The game's environments also look nice -- Operation Blockade's missions 
 can take place at dawn, in the afternoon, dusk, and at night, and in each case, the sky will be 
 lit by either sunlight or moonlight that reflects off the game's good-looking animated oceans and 
 clouds.   

  Operation Blockade also has some very good sound effects and even makes use of 3D sound to produce 
 a Doppler effect as enemy planes strafe past you, off into the distance. The game's explosions 
 are loud and clear, and the enemy infantry you mow down with your weapons will each scream individually 
 with a few different voice samples, so they don't all sound like the same guy dying repeatedly. 
 Unfortunately, a few different voice samples are all your character has, and none are very good. 
 Despite the fact that you're all alone sitting in a turret in the middle of nowhere, your nameless, 
 faceless character will always gleefully yell out one of the same three or four lame taunts when 
 he shoots down an enemy. He'll spew out expressions such as "Like shootin' fish in a barrel," "There's 
 more where that came from," and the timeless World War II battle-cry of freedom, "Booya!" -- which 
 will quickly begin to wear away at your sanity.   

  Then again, if you were to buy, install, and actually enjoy Operation Blockade, you'd need to be 
 at least partially insane. That's because when you look past its good graphics and sound -- and you 
 will -- Operation Blockade's arcade-style gameplay is relentlessly repetitive, often frustrating, 
 and never really fun. The game gives you three regular weapons: a light machine gun for use against 
 infantry, a medium machine gun for use against small boats and aircraft, and a cannon for use against 
 larger boats. However, the medium gun is an all-purpose weapon that you'll rely on the most, especially 
 since the cannon doesn't really have a useful gun sight that you can use to accurately target your 
 enemies. You'll also sometimes have access to a fourth weapon, grenades, which you can toss a short 
 distance toward your enemies, as well as a few different kinds of "bomb" attacks, like air strikes, 
 but you'll generally end up using your three primary weapons.           ... But you'll get over 
 them. Fast.    

 Then you sit in your turret, rotate around, and shoot at whatever moves -- there's little skill involved 
 in the game other than basic point-and-shoot aiming, since you're in a stationary turret that can't 
 dodge (and always gets hit) . You can hit larger targets, such as cruisers and aircraft carriers, 
 to "salvage ammo and medical supplies," which instantly heals damage you've taken and replenishes 
 your ammunition in true arcade-game fashion. And that's it. To make the game "challenging," the 
 later missions in the game throw even more enemies at you, and you can also scale up the difficulty 
 settings to make enemies tougher (and to require more shots to destroy them) . Both of these things 
 end up making it easier to be in the preposterous position of completely running out of ammo -- a 
 problem that happens much more often than it should to a soldier  whose sole purpose in life is 
 to fire a turret . When this happens, you're a sitting duck, and you can either restart the game 
 or sit there and watch your enemies gradually wear you down until you die. Operation Blockade actually 
 has a lot of different missions to play through, but they're basically all just more of the same. 
   

  And anyway, you're better off not playing Operation Blockade at all. Though the game has some good-looking 
 graphics and some pretty good sound, they were wasted on an unenjoyable, repetitive action game 
 that should itself be blockaded from your hard drive.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (2 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: jjjohan
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 9, 2007 11:03 pm PT
Review:  This really is a great game. You start a simple guy with a few weak guns, shooting down slow planes, 
 and advance up to jets and huge battleships while you also upgrade your weapons over time. It may 
 not have too many features, but it is so fun, you might even forget about those. Also, truly great 
 graphics, sound, and even the gameplay is OK.
  
  You have up to 5 weapons. The light machine gun, useful for shooting down infantry and aircraft 
 if your just plain bored or up for a challenge, the medium machine gun/turret specifically for 
 aircraft, can be used for small patrol boats, and even infantry. Then, you get this cannon, it's 
 weak at first, but as you advance it fires faster, further, and does more damage, just like each 
 weapon available to you. It is great for shooting down ships, and is probably the only weapon you 
 can sink larger ships with. You can use it on the edge of the island, AKA where the infantry units 
 and tanks land, or even against the supply planes that fly past. There's also grenades, which can 
 be used to kill a larger amount of infantry units, or damage tanks, and finally, the rocket launcher, 
 which is useful for destroying tanks that may land on the beach.
  
  Another great feature of this game is that aircraft and boats are very destructive. With aircrafts, 
 you can shoot off the wings, tail, canopy, and a few other parts. You can also continue shooting 
 at parts that have been shot off, to shoot parts of those! As for ships, you can destroy cannons, 
 simple objects, and just the ship itself.
  
  Meanwhile as you progress, you earn upgrades such as torpedo strikes, air strikes, and air raids, 
 which are great if your really in need of help which you probably won't be in.
  
  It also allows for multiplayer battles, which are a bit more tricky since you will have to manually 
 connect to IP adresses and such, but that isn't too hard, and you can play co-op, or you might 
 even be an enemy which I read somewhere but have never tried.
  
  I really wished for a sequel to this game, but I guess not enough people bought the game.
  
 
  It may have a few graphical issues with the newest hardware and software around, but it should 
 still be easily playable with a few adjustments here and there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nightharvest
Rating: 3.2
Date: Jul 15, 2006 4:25 am PT
Review:  Professional reviewers have to review bad games as part of their job. I have only to date reviewed 
 games that I have enjoyed. But I have to review 'Operation Blockade'. It's bad - and I don't want 
 anybody spending any money on this, even if it is a lousy $10. There's so much better available 
 for that price or a little bit more - and when stacked against games at a similar price, 'Operation 
 Blockade' just doesn't compete.
  
  This game was released in 2002 as part of Infogrames budget range. It is 'budget' in every sense 
 of the word. The basic storyline of the game is that the Saruvian Empire has declared war on the 
 whole world and with display of brute force has invaded and captured the whole continent due south. 
 However in a major tactical oversight, they have neglected to take a small island between the the 
 continent and the last post of Jonestown. On this island is where you last stand takes place. And 
 you, as apparently a lone turret gunman, have been charged with destroying the whole Saruvian empire 
 military fleet (planes, boats, carriers and soldiers as they charge the beach) that crosses your 
 path, so your brethren can amount the counter-offensive. Jonestown? C'mon - we expect better than 
 that. 
  
  Firstly, the graphics are pretty decent. The airplane models are very impressive and there is some 
 satisfaction in shooting these down and watching crash into a ball of flames. The boats look realistic 
 enough and when they sink - it also looks half decent. The soldiers, although small in nature, 
 look well detailed as they charge up the beach and the assaults happen at different times during 
 day and night. While it looks good and works well enough, there isn't a whole lot of variety.
 
  
  The sound is reasonable as well. The planes sound like planes, the boats sound like boats and the 
 gunfire sounds like gunfire. It does the job. But I got sick of hearing the player's comments over 
 and over again. Surely it wouldn't have taken to much extra time to put a bit more variety into 
 the voice work.
  
  As for the gameplay, Operation Blockade could best be called a 'static' shooter. You don't move 
 (though you can swivel 360 degrees) , you don't solve puzzles - heck, you don't even reload. You 
 just aim and shoot. And when you run out of bullets, (and yes, that does happen - and often) you 
 just sit in your hole and wait to be killed. And if you are good enough to defeat one wave of planes, 
 boats and soldiers, you get to do exactly the same again, except with a few more enemies and less 
 chance of restoring health / ammo by destroying cargo planes and ships. There are four weapons 
 at most and once the enemy soldiers get too far up the beach, you can't kill them because you can't 
 aim that close. So you just sit there. And if you do these dozens of times, you finish the game. 
 The only difference is that every now and then you get a 'bonus' or 'challenge' level, but it's 
 practically the same thing - sit in your hole and shoot.
  
  And seriously, that is all there is to say about the gameplay. Not surprisingly - it becomes tiresome 
 very quickly. It would be a sign of considerable masochism to endure the whole game.
  
  I accept that it is 'arcade' in nature and is the typical Beach-head game, but my major issue is 
 that Operation Blockade' is one-dimensional on a simplistic and poor theme. There are plenty of 
 one-dimensional games that work because the core gameplay is excellent (and it has to be) . But 
 the core gameplay here is far from that.
  
  I did invest / waste quite a few hours into this. No multiplayer, no replayability and no real 
 incentive to even finish the blessed game. I do recall thinking to myself at time "Why are you 
 playing this?"
  
  The solace for me is that I didn't pay for this. It was lent to me by a friend, who then redeemed 
 himself by lending Battlefield 2 a couple of weeks later for some single player gameplay. But still, 
 I don't think anybody should be paying for this. Donate money to the developers if you really feel 
 strongly enough about it, but don't buy this. But I get the feeling nobody does. Gamespot stats 
 suggest that of this instant 33 people own it, 8 people are playing and amazingly, it is being 
 tracked by 19 people and actually on three wish lists!
  
  I searched the internet and found that this could be purchased for $9.95 in Australia. However, 
 for the same price you can also get Deus Ex, Return to Castle Wolfenstein, Morrowind, GTA III, 
 Max Payne, Thief 2 and even the sublime Painkiller (as one dimensional - but it's fantastic at 
 what it does) is available on the new 'Replay' label. And look at the 'Similar Games' section: 
 Halo, Far Cry and Call of Duty. Seriously, this game cannot compete.
  
  'Operation Blockade' is not one for your hard earned cash or your hard-drive. Avoid. And I do sincerely 
 hope those behind this game went on to bigger and better things.
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
