-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Operation Flashpoint: Cold War Crisis
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/operationflashpointcwc/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep  4, 2001
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.7
Critic Score: 8.6, 42 Review (s)
User Score: 8.8, 1,571 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Codemasters
Developer: Bohemia Int.
Genre: Modern Tactical Shooter
Date:     Aug 30, 2001 &raquo;  
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The setting is perfect shooter material, and Operation Flashpoint does justice to it with complex 
 gameplay coupled with a huge and truly memorable gameworld. 

 1985. The Cold War simmers as NATO and the Warsaw Pact are locked in a grim embrace. Masses of men 
 and weapons stand toe-to-toe, ready to live out the nightmare of World War III. Operation Flashpoint: 
 Cold War Crisis is an ambitious and eagerly anticipated military shooter that turns up the heat 
 on the Cold War, featuring advanced armies and weapon systems doing battle with you in the middle. 
 While the setting may not be entirely relevant anymore, it's still perfect shooter material, and 
 Operation Flashpoint does justice to it with complex gameplay coupled with a huge and truly memorable 
 gameworld.           You'll feel like you're in the middle of a modern battlefield.    

  Operation Flashpoint puts you on the fictional Malden Islands, an area reminiscent of the Balkans. 
 In the extensive single-player campaign, you learn that fighting has erupted on the islands, and 
 at first it's unclear who's involved and who's to blame. As part of the sole NATO presence in the 
 area, it's your job to help liberate the innocent villages caught in the mayhem and determine just 
 what's going on and who's going to pay. Thanks to lengthy and generally well-directed in-engine 
 cutscenes, you'll start to gather the pieces of the puzzle. You begin the campaign as a US Army 
 private engaged in training exercises in an almost idyllic camp. So far, you and your fellow soldiers 
 haven't seen any action during your tour of duty on the islands. That quickly changes, and you 
 get the opportunity to confront enemies, explore the huge islands, and finally move up the ranks 
 for new responsibilities and challenges.   

  The numerous campaign missions let you assault villages, run patrols, rescue hostages, and engage 
 in a variety of realistic actions. Usually, you play as part of a computer-controlled squad, but 
 one of the dramatic highpoints of the campaign puts you alone, lost in a forest at dawn, trying 
 desperately to make it through heavy enemy patrols to an evacuation point. Unfortunately, the missions 
 rely heavily on scripted events and triggers, which both reduces replay value somewhat and contributes 
 to bugs. Sometimes an event will fail to register, leaving you and your comrades just sitting there 
 with no way to finish the mission or progress through the linear campaign. Despite plausible enemy 
 artificial intelligence, you'll often encounter enemies near the same spots each time you play 
 a mission. Also, the game inexcusably gives you only one save per mission, though you can choose 
 when to make it. Note to game designers: Let players decide for themselves if they want to play 
 ironman-style, particularly when missions can last 20 or 30 minutes like they do here.   

  Outside of the campaign, which can be tackled on two difficulty levels, you can also engage in 
 varied single missions that you can play in any order, bringing the mission total to around 50. 
 On top of that, Operation Flashpoint includes a full mission editor, and there's a burgeoning mod 
 scene for the game. Multiplayer offers a number of modes, including capture the flag, deathmatch, 
 city defense, and cooperative. The team-based modes have lots of potential but require an exceptional 
 amount of cooperation and coordination between players, which can of course be hard to find on 
 public servers.   

  Operation Flashpoint's focus on realistic weapons and vehicles helps create exciting gameplay since 
 it blends realism, diversity, and, frankly, lots of big cool guns. As an infantryman, you'll get 
 to blast the enemy with M16 and AK74 rifles, the M60 machine gun, hand grenades, M21 and Dragunov 
 sniper rifles, satchel charges, rocket launchers, and many others. If you don't like the weapon 
 you're assigned, you can always pick up new ones from fallen soldiers, whether friend or foe. Operation 
 Flashpoint offers one of the biggest selections of vehicles yet found in a shooter. You get to 
 ride in or pilot six helicopters alone, including the Cobra, Apache, Blackhawk, Chinook, and Russian 
 Mi-17 and Hind. Then there are ground attack planes like the A-10 Thunderbolt (aka "Warthog") and 
 the SU25 Frogfoot, an assortment of trucks and jeeps, M113 and BMP-1 armored personnel carriers, 
 the M1A1 Abrams tank, Russian T72 and T80 tanks, and more.           Give those feet a rest -- you'll 
 get to drive or just ride in a wide variety of vehicles.    

  You can control the vehicles and your individual soldier from either first- or third-person viewpoints, 
 and movement and firing are controlled through a familiar keyboard-and-mouse shooter layout. You 
 interact with the gameworld through a pop-up menu that offers contextual options like changing 
 your M16 magazine or getting in a jeep as the driver or a passenger. It's an elegant system, but 
 at the same time, it suffers from a lack of hotkeys for all available actions -- at least the most 
 important ones like reloading or switching weapons have them. To help you find targets and follow 
 your squad leader's commands, a HUD features optional friend-or-foe and direction indicators, and 
 you also get a compass and a detailed topographical map.   

  The controls remain largely consistent whether you're on foot or controlling a land or air vehicle, 
 which makes learning the game relatively easy but also reduces the level of detail and realism 
 with the vehicles. Don't expect a hard-core tank or flight sim here. With the exception of jeeps 
 and trucks, vehicles tend to be very twitchy and awkward to control. In some missions, you get 
 to command other troops or vehicle crews, but what should be a high point of the game is hurt by 
 a cumbersome command system that's a chore to use even when you're not taking fire. Also, you can't 
 rely on computer-controlled crews to drive vehicles, thanks to spotty AI when they take the wheel. 
    

 Whatever its flaws, Operation Flashpoint really envelops you in the chaos of war. The staccato report 
 of gunfire sounds out from all around; fellow soldiers charge past in search of cover; armored 
 vehicles rumble up dirt roads; enemy soldiers dash between village buildings; and above it all, 
 you hear the constant chatter of incoming radio messages from your fellow soldiers. The feeling 
 of chaos is amplified by the large outdoor settings that largely lack the rooms and tunnels found 
 in traditional shooters that serve to funnel players and focus action. You'll typically engage 
 enemies at very long ranges, where they appear like little specks on the horizon. Because of these 
 distances, as well as very quick deaths, you'll rarely get the visceral thrill of close in-your-face 
 combat or the extended dueling found in many shooters. This may be a case where fun suffers at 
 realism's hands. Also, the frequent feeling of a confused, dynamic battlefield can sometimes leave 
 you wondering exactly what's going on, rather than give the action a sense of tension and excitement. 
           The game accurately models many different real-world weapons...    

  Still, the world of Operation Flashpoint feels much more alive and immersive than that of most 
 shooters, thanks to unusually high attention to detail. Trucks rattle past military bases where 
 the American flag flaps in the breeze and soldiers do their push-ups. Jeeps kick up dust, leave 
 tire tracks on dirt roads, and feature working speedometers. Missions take place at different times 
 of day with appropriate light levels that actually change during longer missions to reflect the 
 rising or setting of the sun. Your fellow soldiers will chatter with each other, sometimes comically 
 and sometimes just inanely, as your squad is driven to a rendezvous point in a smoke-belching truck 
 or armored personnel carrier.   

  The emphasis on detail and realism can be almost counterproductive at times, though, since muzzle 
 flashes and falling soldiers usually lack any Hollywood-style exaggeration or melodrama. It feels 
 more realistic, certainly, but you may find that it lacks the sort of cinematic thrill you might 
 want in a game like this. Still, few games have offered such a convincing, consistent, and engaging 
 environment. Operation Flashpoint makes good on the great promise of the shooter genre: the ability 
 to create a virtual world in 3D and then make you feel like you're really part of it.   

  The game's fine visuals play a major role in making all these details believable. Soldiers cast 
 long, spidery dynamic shadows across hillsides early in the morning when the sun is still low. 
 When an antitank round strikes home, there's a brilliant flash and billow of smoke, leaving only 
 a charred hulk in its wake. The red brake lights on trucks blink on, and headlights cast their 
 beams into the night. Village churches sport the distinctively shaped domes you'd really find in 
 Eastern European or Slavic countries. For perhaps the first time in a 3D game, forests really feel 
 like forests, with expansive, dense stands of trees.   

  Perhaps more than anything, the detailed faces of other soldiers stand out. It's not merely that 
 they're some of the most realistically rendered ones you'll find in a game but that they're subtly 
 animated. It's intriguing to see a squadmate tilt his head, blink, or move his mouth into a slight 
 frown. Sadly, outside of their faces, the rest of the soldiers aren't rendered in such exacting 
 detail; in fact, they're a little blocky, particularly their fingers. Soldier animations tend to 
 look somewhat jerky, too. That dichotomy holds true for most of the graphics: Highly detailed textures 
 cover 3D models of variable quality. Despite any weaknesses, the graphics still handily complete 
 their mission: They create a believable, entertaining world.           ... though its vehicles are 
 simplified to make the gameplay more accessible.    

  Operation Flashpoint's music feels like it could have been taken from a Tom Clancy thriller film, 
 and while it's not incredible, it fits the story and adds to the ambience. The game's sound effects 
 also do a fine job without ever reaching greatness. Trucks, helicopters, and other machines of 
 war sound convincing, as do small arms fire and explosions. Chirping crickets, barking dogs, and 
 other ambient sounds help draw you into the game. The many cutscene voice-overs vary widely in 
 quality, though mediocre acting is the order of the day, and the game's European origin shows through 
 in the dialogue and optional subtitles, thanks to occasional (but not unduly distracting) awkward 
 turns of phrase or mistranslations. The most conspicuous sound effect also happens to be the weakest: 
 The radio messages from your squad leader and fellow soldiers are important for tracking the action, 
 but they're also incessant to the point of distraction. Worse still, their clipped, robotic delivery 
 will almost make you laugh.   

  On the whole, Operation Flashpoint's great strengths more than compensate for its weaknesses. At 
 its best, the game combines some of the most exciting trends of the shooter scene. Like Tribes 
 2, it features individual and vehicular combat on a massive scale, though those elements aren't 
 as well integrated here. Like SWAT 3 and the Rainbow 6/Rogue Spear series, Operation Flashpoint 
 features sophisticated team tactics that test your brain as much as your trigger finger. At the 
 same time, the game's focus on realistic weaponry should please military buffs and perhaps wargamers 
 since the game is arguably as much a realistic sim as it is a shooter. Best of all, Operation Flashpoint 
 offers one of the most believable and immersive virtual worlds to date. While the mechanics of 
 combat can be a letdown at times, the feeling of being  in  combat grips you at nearly every turn. 
 With many diverse and entertaining missions, an interesting story, and loads of realistic weapons, 
 Operation Flashpoint aims high and hits its mark.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (50 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: adders11
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 9, 2008 1:32 am PT
Review:  Operation Flashpoint is one of the best games i've ever played. Maybe that 10/10 score is a bit 
 too high but seriously, this game has entertained me for so many hours. The main reason for this 
 is that there's just so much to do, the combat and gameplay is extremely realistic and you can 
 drive pretty much any vehicle you see.
  
  A first-time player will probably argue about the games difficulty. You die in 1 or 2 shots but 
 that's part of what makes the game so immersive. Unlike most shooters, you're just as vunrable 
 as your enemy. You have to use military tactics to survive. About 95% of the time, going in all 
 guns blazing fails and you just end up wasted. You can barely shoot while running because you just 
 cant aim, you basically have to crouch or even go prone for th best accuracy. Infantry combat is 
 just totally intense.
  
  There are over 30 vehicles to drive too. Let's take a tank. When you choose the tank, say, you 
 get 3 options for the position: driver, gunner and commander, each as important as the other. In 
 your average game you will be doing all these at once but in Flashpoint you have to take just 1 
 job make it much more realistic. There's also jet planes and helicopters to fly.
  
  There's tons of missions in stock- campaigns single missions, multiplayer missions... each very 
 varied. As well as the preset missions you get the editor which allows you to easily create your 
 own with hardly any limits. This just adds so much more to the game whether you want to build a 
 serious objective-based mission or if you just want to create a massive all-out battle.
  
  The graphics are dated nowadays but they get the job done well. The islands are absolutely huge 
 and things like forrests, towns and mountains look pretty good in general. Yes, there old graphics 
 but they are acceptable.
  
  The sound is pretty good- realistic gun sounds are there along with some OK voice-acting in cut-scenes. 
 While in combat you get radio messeges from yourself and squadmates etc which, while realistic 
 in what they are actually saying, sound like a robot or something making me laugh whenever I play. 
 Example: 'Where are you?' '1 position alpha hotel 52'.
  
  Overall Operation Flashpoint isn't a combat game, it's a combat simulation. It's that realistic. 
 I think every PC gamer should try this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Meat_Bag
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 5, 2008 2:20 am PT
Review:  For a while now I've been an Operation Flashpoint fan. To be precise, I played the original game 
 all the way through to the end, and still manage to enjoy both Red Hammer and Resistance expansions. 
 Yes, there really is something about this game that makes you come back to it again and again. 
 Altou the game was released in 2001, I got my hands on it for the first time in 2006. And I have 
 to say, it was love at first sight. 
  
  How come? Well, first of all, I was awed by it's extremely realistic gameplay, real-life weapons, 
 open mission design and tons of vehicles you can operate. If you're looking for a cool action game, 
 you won't find it here. This game is a gritty simulation of what it's like to be a common soldier 
 on a huge, open modern battlefield. Every shot counts here, as one bullet kills easily even the 
 toughest Rambo-wannabe types. Here you don't have a crosshair that stays on your target perfectly 
 still as you're running sideways among your enemies and dodging bullets like Ryu Hayabusa. Here 
 you have to stand still, aim carefully and pick your targets with one or two shots. Believe me, 
 there's nothing more difficult then hitting a moving target (considering the realistic bullet trajectory 
 simulated in this game) . When you kill the enemy, he'll simply drop on the ground, without any 
 "John Woo" movie-style tumbling and acrobatics you might expect, and you usually see your enemies 
 only from a distance, just like in the real world. Gritty and realistic, that's the word here. 
 The AI is great, the enemies are smart, effective and act like real soldiers should. If you fire 
 at them from a distance, they'll drop on the ground, scan the horizon to see where the shots are 
 coming from, then return fire. If you press them hard, they'll run for cover, or even retreat. 
 All while covering each other and trying to hit you in the chest. So you have to be fast, exact 
 and accurate with your weapon. Your squad mates are smart as well, but don't think that gives you 
 an excuse to play a hero. This game could easily be used for training real soldiers, if you know 
 what I mean.
  
  But oh, where are my manners? I still haven't said a word about the game's story. Yes, there is 
 a story, and a pretty good and believable one. The scenario is set during 1980's, when the Soviet 
 Union was still a global superpower and Cold War was in a constant state of "could turn hot any 
 minute". It all takes place on a fictional set of islands in the Baltic Sea. You play a role of 
 David Armstrong, young American soldier who's just waiting for his turn to come up, as the war 
 suddenly breaks out on the islands. No one knows what's going on, and who the attackers really 
 are. It's a nightmare scenario of World War 3. And believe me, it's not a good time to be on NATO's 
 side...
  
  That's for the story and gameplay. As for the graphics... well, it must have been good in 2001. 
 Altou I seriously doubt it was breath-taking even then. Today, it looks plain ugly. But such sacrifices 
 had to be made, since game takes place in huge open spaces you can explore as you please. Back 
 in 2001, it wasn't possible to make a game like this with stunning graphics. But don't worry, it 
 still looks good enough. Character models are pretty good, and vehicles look just awesome. The 
 sounds are also pretty great, since every weapon and vehicle sounds exactly like it's real world 
 counterpart. The voices, on the other hand, are not too good. During combat, they issue orders 
 and communicate in such a robotic way it will make you puke. Cutsceenes between missions are mostly 
 OK, altou nothing deserving an Oscar. The missions themselves are well-balanced and challenging, 
 so you should have a lot of fun there. Later in the game you'll even advance through the ranks, 
 get a chance to drive a tank, a gunship, and a lot more. Don't wanna spoil the surprise, hehehe... 
 
  
  So, why 9.0 instead of 10? 
  
  Bugs, my friend, oh the bugs... Since this is a massive game, there are a lot of bugs involved. 
 First and foremost, missions play out by trigger events (pretty much like Half-Life) you have to 
 trigger the right way in order to proceed. If you don't you're pretty much busted, with no way 
 to finish the mission. Altou it doesn't happen so often, it still does happen. Sometimes you'll 
 trigger it properly, but still won't be able to finish the mission. Grrrr... In those cases, you 
 don't have a choice but to reload your save and try again. Or you'll even have to reload the entire 
 mission. Again, it happened rarely, so don't let it divert you from this awesome game. Just so 
 "ye be warned". 
  Oh, and one more thing that nearly cost this game it's fan base. Even tough it's extremely difficult, 
 you only get one free save per mission. That's right, even tough most missions take longer than 
 30 minutes to beat (especially later on in the game) , you can only save once. For the love of who-ever, 
 is it so hard to let the players decide if they want to play Rambo-style, especially in a game 
 as difficult as this one?
  
  Well, one thing's for sure... When you try this game for the first time, you'll either love it 
 or hate it. There's no other way. 
  
  Just remember, this game is not pretty... it's just war.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gumeh
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 12, 2008 9:55 am PT
Review:  =preview=
  
  based on corld war crysis. but with modern real weapon in the world, making the game enjoy to play. 
 
  
  =gameplay=
  
  there are a check point in this game, u must go to the next check point in completed the mission. 
 operation flash point have a few map with each objective. u starring as aone of soldier who lay 
 down into chaos of war. but u can dead instantly if u can't shoot the enemy very well. in operation 
 flash point u can'y find ammo and health bonus. if u out of ammo u must take enemy weapon, or if 
 u hurt u must find the medic team who will healing u. it's very interest i guess. operation flash 
 point have a complicated game play with strange team organizing. very interest to drive many vehicle, 
 such as jeep or tank. but carefully to break down ur teammates.
  
  =graphics=
  
  good environment details, even better than ghost recon. vehicle details, person details imprisoned 
 i guess. but there are a few bugs but isn't interrupt teh interset for this game. u can run this 
 game in windows 98, NT, 200, or xp. with minimum requirements pentium III with 128 RAM, and 32 
 Mb vga card, like geforce 2, or voodo. the sound it's good with a commander speech, explosion, 
 screaming. yeah it's really good thing.
  
  =all performance=
  
  it's very fun to play with chaos battle with alot of weapons and vehicle u can take. please shoot 
 the tank!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mahoganybullet
Rating: 5.5
Date: Apr 26, 2008 9:13 am PT
Review:  Having attempted to play the first 5 or so missions on operation flashpoint: cold war crisis, I 
 quickly realised that it was not only realistic, but in some parts one of the most boring first 
 person shooters I have ever played. Generally I enjoy almost any game, and the single missions 
 was no exception. 
  The game is very realistic, and some may like this. Generally, especially in the campaign this 
 gets very annoying, because not only do you die after only 2 shots from very accurate and well 
 camouflaged opponents, but once you die you also have to start the whole mission again. There is 
 the option to save, but it can only be done once, so repetition can be very high. In some missions 
 you are also required to wait while the AI takes control (for a vehicle, whilst you sit in the 
 back for example) . This takes time, very much so when it has to be repeated 5 times because you've 
 saved beforehand after a previous boring part. I even had one case where i was following my leader 
 (who was in a jeep) in a truck. Another random jeep coming the other direction on the road crashed 
 right into my leader's jeep. This consequently resulted in the failing of the mission.
  The graphics are terrible, but good enough to not hinder good play, and considering it was made 
 in 2000 I can see why. Trying to play it in 2008 with such an improvement in technology does not 
 do anything to boost this game's reputation.
  Learning the controls can be a bit confusing in the missions, but after randomly pressing all the 
 buttons I found all the useful ones.
  Overall I would still rank this game in the region 5-6. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kragspire
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 28, 2008 6:24 pm PT
Review:  Operation: Flashpoint is a squad based tactical shooter that focuses on realism. In the game, you 
 will take on different roles ranging from tank commander to pilot of an A10. There is also plenty 
 of infantry play, which is where the biggest challenges wait for the player. In fact, most players 
 will have enough trouble trying to get through the game on it's easiest setting. You are only allowed 
 to save your game once per map, which can be frustrating. The game is challenging but at the same 
 time rewarding if you have the patience. 
  
  There is also a story behind OFP. The game is based in the mid 1980's during the cold war. A ruthless 
 Russian dictator has taken control of the game's fictional island. NATO has become involved with 
 the conflict, as the island's small defenses proved fruitless to total resistance. Each scenario 
 you play allows for different perspectives on the war from different men on the front line. You 
 switch off between these soldiers every mission and soon find that one operation impacts another's 
 success.
  
  The simulation features of OFP are pretty good. Infantry must stand still to reload weapons as 
 well as shoot them with accuracy. Keeping prone is ideal for survival, as it takes only one stray 
 bullet to kill you. Tank combat is coordination and tactics among your crew, but can also be done 
 solo. There is no greater feeling in OFP then seeing a well organized tank brigade storming over 
 a hill. Air combat is decent, but at times feels too much like an arcade game. This is not to say 
 that it is easy to control, but the game provides some auto functions for landing and hovering.
 
  
  The graphics of OFP are a double-edged sword. Character models are blocky and stiff. Most vehicles 
 fail to provide a damage model that interacts with the area hit, and instead provides the same 
 animation every time destroyed. The terrain is excellent and can be quite breath taking when viewed 
 from the air. The massive view distance of 1000m or more is the cause of these graphical short 
 comings. Since the game was made in 2001, it seems on par for a simulation game. It would have 
 been nice to see some updates to models in the same way that World War 2 Online does over time.
 
  
  The AI of Squad members is not always the best. Often times, AI trucks become stuck in trees and 
 fail to find an alternative route. Infantry AI seems to follow orders well, but run out into open 
 fields and get shot, even when told to find cover. Some of your missions will require covert ops, 
 and your squad members tend to do better in these. There was a scouting mission where I directed 
 my squad to their objectives and never had to leave my starting location.
  
  Even though the game is seeing the years, OFP is still an excellent squad shooter. There are plenty 
 of things to do that will keep you busy. The multiplayer portion is solid and OFP continues to 
 be one of the best communities on the Internet. If you want a challenging game that won't let you 
 save your game every 5 steps, you may just find OFP to be it. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: titanic100
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 17, 2008 5:53 am PT
Review:  Operation flashpoint. 
  
  Game play. 
  
  The game is about the US army versus the Russians and the scen is based on a map called Everon, 
 and there is a war against the Russians and the United States army, 
  
  You play the soldier David Armstrong and no I don't think he is related to Neil Armstrong, 
  
 
  The sounds 
  
  The sounds are not perfect but they will let you see what war is but it is good enough for the 
 game and the way they are in the game is quite good, 
  
  The sounds of all the vehicle engines are very good from the jeep to an apache helicopter, and 
 the way the sounds of the guns and rockets from the helicopters are good. 
  
  And the explosions when you have destroyed a tank or a other vehicle is very good. 
  
  Graphics 
 
  
  The graphics are good and especially when a rocket from a helicopter its the ground turns the ground 
 in to mud where the rocket hit. 
  
  When you have destroyed a vehicle the vehicles metal bends out of shape and that tell you that 
 the vehicle has been destroyed. 
  
  So I recommend that this game is still very good so you should start playing it. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mibu_wolf
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 1, 2008 1:53 am PT
Review:  Operation flash point is a combat sim that takes place on several islands fighting the Russians 
 during the 1980's. First of all, in my opinion the fictional plot to the whole game is genius. 
 There aren't many games out there that deal with the cold war, especially one that turns the war 
 hot and goes into deep combat with the Russians. 
  
  This game isn't a run in and kill em' all type of game, it takes patience and some skill to accomplish 
 your task. In operation flash point you can be a variety of things all which are nicely realistic. 
 You can pilot helicopters and jets, tanks and mainly take part in infantry combat. During game 
 play everyone works together to defeat the enemy. Like a tank will destroy other armored targets 
 before turning their attention toward infantry. Its nice how the bots will choose wisely most of 
 the time. The bots are smart and will make the appropriate choices. Don't think you can run out 
 in the battle field killing everyone with a tank or helicopter, the bots wil make the right choice 
 to take you out.
  
  The controls are fairly easy, but the mouse control is a little odd compared to other shooter games. 
 But you should get used to it in about 10 minutes. The campaign is nice. You are several main characters 
 during the campaign, like a soldier and tank commander. As you go through the campaign your characters 
 rank up earning you the right to things like commanding your own squad. 
  
  The graphics aren't the best but if your worried about the graphics your looking for the wrong 
 game. Operation flash point is so fun you should look past the graphics and focus on the game play. 
 The best part of this game in my opinion is the nice in game mission editor. Endless possibilities. 
 Its not an extremely complicated mission editor but you can get complicated making the best missions. 
 Using the editor you can make your player whatever you wish, Civilian, Russian, or American. All 
 the vehicles, types of infantry and even civilians are right there at your disposal. You just choose 
 which island you would like to fight on, place units and way points and your set.
  
  Its really a great game with a brilliant plot that any shooter sim would like. If you can look 
 past the graphics you should have plenty of fun with this game. It will work on pretty much any 
 windows XP. With its great mission editor this game really is endless and is a great buy with a 
 low cost. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: usmc46
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 27, 2007 9:49 pm PT
Review:  I came upon the demo of this game waaaay back in 2001 i think after checking out a story in a magazine 
 about this new and upcoming game that was supposed to be an end all war game. I felt a little jipped 
 after WWII Online, but I thought I would try OFP. I played the demo not knowing what to expect 
 and was quickly suprised by the vastness and overall immersion the game had going for it. The couple 
 of skirmishes were exciting enough. This was way cooler than Delta Force and ran at more than 3 
 fps unlike WWIIOL. After getting the game and expansions and patches and addons I really must say 
 that OFP is not like other games. It does require some work to get all the things you need to get 
 it up and going. This was made alot easier when the game of the year edition shipped and all you 
 needed was one patch. The addons also were great, but were a headache in the begining as they flooded 
 the forums and nobody could ever play together because of so many patches and addons. In the end 
 it hurt the mainstreamness of Operation Flashpoint, but this might have been a blessing because 
 OFP found its way into a special corner of the gaming community where it was nutured and grew into 
 the game it is today. The main game has three part wher you get to play as different roles in the 
 US, Russiam, and then Resistance armies. The main story is complelling and sucks you in to the 
 feeling that you are not a rambo, but just one part of something so much larger and complex. It 
 is very rewarding to complete all the campaigns, but once you go into the online realm there is 
 a huge community that thrives and even though Armed Assault is out OFP is still alive. The online 
 experience is one the isnt matched by any other game due to the fact so many awesome and authentic 
 addons have come out for this game. The only problem is you have to run the same addons as the 
 server you play on or you will not be able to connect. Which is a weak part of this game becasue 
 it takes a little work to do. I recomend ofp watch which has auto addon downloads for servers and 
 is really easy to use. Overall OFP is a realistic war simulator that has a beefy single player, 
 multi-player that is still hard to match, and a community with all kinds of crazy addons. Even 
 in these days of Armed Assault, which supposedly replaced OFP, I find myself longing for some online 
 coop where it might take 1-4 hours to complete a single mission and you better not die, cuz if 
 theres no revive script in the mission, you'll be a seagull flying around above the action. I think 
 OFP is a game that I personally will be playing 10 years from now, it just has that much appeal. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VanHallo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 25, 2007 4:19 am PT
Review:  Now first of all I have to say that this game is extremely difficult and very realistic. One good 
 shot by the enemy and you are dead. A good hit in your leg and your ability to walk is instantly 
 limited or disabled completely (meaning you have to crawl) . Now because of this super realism it 
 takes a special kind of gamer to truly appreciate Operation Flashpoints brilliance. First of all 
 you have to be patient and really learn how the game works. Running around and shooting at everything 
 that moves is not a good tactic since the enemy will then notify your position and then you'll 
 almost certainly die (if one good shot could kill you, imagine what ten good shots could do) .Since 
 this is the common way to do things in most shooters some or maybe most fans of first person shooters 
 will have strong feelings against this game/simulator. I have read a couple of bad reviews of this 
 game and I'm almost certain that the writers are fans of traditional shooters and therefore gives 
 this game a very unfair review. If you you are one of those who just love FPS where you run around 
 and shoot at everything and gets hit by tons of bullets before you die? Well then perhaps this 
 isn't the game for you and then their reviews may be good advice for you. Maybe you should test 
 this game before you buy. If you on the other hand love anything with realism (like I do) then 
 I'm very happy to say that you have found the right game. Do not let the age of it (it came out 
 2001) fool you. It's still a brilliant game and probably very cheap now so there are no reasons 
 why you should not buy it!
  
  The Graphics: The graphics compared to the games of today is really bad. However if you keep in 
 mind that this games is stunningly SIX years old then you realise that the graphics isn't that 
 bad afterall. In 2001 I promise you those graphics were really good although maybe not top notch 
 even for 2001. The graphics is a little bit square'ish but the colours are truly great. A little 
 pale and no shining colours which gives you a perfect atmoshpere in the game. It really feels more 
 like a simulator then a game with these graphics.
  
  The Gameplay: What really makes this game worth buying is it's gameplay. At the moment I haven't 
 seen a game that could make you feel like a real soldier more than OF. Realism is the keyword for 
 this game or simulator that I prefer calling it sometimes.
  
  The sound: This might be the weakest part of Operation Flashpoint I'm afraid. The sound is functional 
 but not much more than that and sometimes the voice acting get's a little bit boring. However the 
 rest of the game really makes up for this part.
  
  Lifetime: The cold war crisis campaign is long and does not end right away. More to it. You can 
 actually play thru different paths in the campaign depending on how good you manage to solve the 
 missions. In the end there's actually two different endings also that depending on how you manage 
 as a soldier. Now you can also buy two more campaings. One where you play as the resistance leader 
 and one where you see everything thru the russians side.
  
  In conclusion:
  If you are a shooters fan you should try before buy. If you are a realism fan then you have not 
 much choice but to buy this super realistic game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: majesticcryx
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 1, 2007 3:29 am PT
Review:  After extensive examination, my medical opinion is that Operation Flashpoint suffers from a multiple-personality 
 disorder, and a series of control issues. From having characteristics of being an arcade-style 
 vehicle-based shooter one minute, it jumps to super-realistic first-person tactical combat the 
 next. Also, this patient has proven most uncooperative at times and refuses to let you save your 
 game more than once. In this report, I will delve deep into the psyche of Operation Flashpoint 
 and find out how such a promising and ambitious game became the confused product we see in front 
 of us.
  
  Let us begin with some background information. Operation Flashpoint puts you in the role of multiple 
 NATO soldiers training in Eastern Europe in the year 1985. The first persona you take is that of 
 a common grunt. In the first few missions youll learn the basics of ground combat, such as marksmanship 
 and navigating from point A to point B. These skills are put to good use when a war suddenly erupts 
 with Russia, and you find yourself caught in the center.
  
  As the story progresses, youll assume the roles of other soldiers, such as a tank commander, a 
 helicopter pilot, and a field officer. Many of the scenarios play out like a Tom Clancy novel, 
 and the mix of mission objectives is enough to whet any action gamers appetite. Youll take part 
 in tank-column ambushes, defensive operations where you must hold a port at all costs, black-ops 
 missions where you have to sabotage enemy strongholds, and even assassination attempts.
  
  Fans of military hardware will go nuts, as youll have access to historically accurate and realistically 
 modeled weapons such as the Dragunov sniper rifle and M-60 machine gun. Both NATO and Warsaw Pact 
 hardware is available. The list of playable vehicles includes T-72 tanks, BMP troop transports, 
 and Cobra attack helicopters.
  
  As in Rainbow Six, one good shot to the head will end your game. A leg shot will prevent you from 
 walking, and flesh wounds affect your aim by causing your reticule to wobble. Cover and concealment 
 are vital if you want to live through your first firefight. Even weapons ballistics is figured 
 in. Bullets drop over distance and are affected by wind, so sniping is now a true challenge, especially 
 if your target is moving.
  
  In terms of realism, Operation Flashpoint is the closest youll get to a real ground war on your 
 PC. But that doesnt necessarily make a good game. There are two difficulty levels, Cadet and Veteran, 
 but they should be renamed Hard and Near Impossible. As in real combat, firefights are confusing 
 and disorienting. Its hard to tell where shots are coming from, and your small squad of soldiers 
 can be cut to pieces in seconds. Also, most missions are very long, with multiple objectives, and 
 youre typically outnumbered and outgunned. Youll need the dedication of a hardcore sim nut to 
 play through this entire game.
  
  Physically, to the naked eye, this patient is healthy and attractive. The levels reaching 100 square 
 kilometers in size are beautiful when viewed from far away, and the vehicles are exactingly realistic. 
 However, up close, the blocky models with nominal textures dont come close to those in Counter-Strike, 
 and the foliage becomes very pixelated. Also, youll notice overall low-polygon counts on most 
 of the houses and structures. Understandably, the designers probably did this to keep the levels 
 large and expansive.
  
  A considerably weaker part of this game is its sound. Almost every effect seems muffled and generic. 
 Rifle shots, machinegun chatter, and even cannon blasts sound flat and cheap. Theres horrible 
 voice acting during
  in-game cutscenes and the monotone audible orders given during missions quickly grow repetitious. 
 However, these are small issues compared to the core problem with Flashpoint: control.
  
  The most noticeable control issue is with the aiming reticule, or cursor. For some reason, it has 
 a certain window of movement before the direction in which youre pointing actually changes. Its 
 a bit like having an auto-aim function on, and pulling your sight away from the target its attached 
 to can be very disorienting.
  
  Our patient also displays some frustrating inconsistencies. While you play as an infantry soldier, 
 the game is almost unmatched in realism, but the second you hop into a helicopter, the game plays 
 like an arcade-style shooter. True, this makes it more accessible (flying a helicopter is far more 
 difficult than running around with a rifle) , but the transition is jarring. Also, we found a few 
 collision-detection bugs. Sometimes we could run over an enemy soldier with a tank and crush him; 
 other times wed roll over him with no effect at all. There were even times when our character 
 got run over with no effect.
  
  But Flashpoint is not a lost cause. Commanding a platoon through its interface is simple. The orders 
 you can give are very detailed, telling troops to find cover, who or what to attack, which waypoint 
 to head to, which vehicles to board, and what position to take (gunner, driver, passenger) . This 
 is an important tool in completing some of the later missions. However, commanding your own soldier 
 can be frustrating. You have to navigate through action menus to do everything from picking up 
 ammo to climbing a ladder. And if you dont have a wheel mouse, youll have to do all this using 
 the keyboard.
  
  The multiplayer modes have much to offer. Many scenarios let you play with all the weapons and 
 vehicles in the game. One terrific multiplayer level has two sides fighting it out over a city 
 using tanks and patrol boats. But the menus to set up a game are not the least bit intuitive, and 
 it takes a lot of fussing to get a game going.
  
  More ambitious gamers will appreciate the very powerful mission editor, which gives you as much 
 control as the game designers in creating new detailed missions. But it comes with scant documentation, 
 and is not easy to use.
  
  In conclusion, I believe Operation Flashpoint is, ultimately, a victim of bad usability and poor 
 execution. True, few games let you play as a soldier, tank commander, and pilot in the same sitting, 
 but in order to enjoy yourself you must be able to feel comfortable with your controls and navigate 
 the in-game menus intuitively. Also, being able to save only once during a mission is a huge misstep, 
 especially for such a tough game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RobtBizzle
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 31, 2007 3:43 am PT
Review:  This is probably the best game i've ever played on PC.
  I'll make this review short cause there is so many things to say about this game.
  
  Gameplay: 
 Amazing, taking cover, stealth, assault, sabotage, driving tanks and all sorts of vehicles. Giving 
 orders and strategy is all what FP is about.
  The campaign is long and if u have the red hammer upgrade this will keep u playing for a long time. 
 Graphics: This is the only bad feature that FP has got. if ur used to xbox 360 or PS3 graphics 
 then this game is a total letdown. But come on this game is 6 years old! The graphics are acceptable 
 and if u don't worry too much about them then thats fine.
  
  Sound: The voice acting and sound affects are pretty good for a game that is 6 years old. All though, 
 every explosion sound effect are exactly the same,
  The only good thing is the voice acting 6/10 The sound effects are terrible 3/10
  
  Value: 
 Why did i give this a 10? Simple, a very long campaign especially when u have the upgrades (red 
 hammer and resistance) .
  There is also Mission editor which let's u create ur missions, creating waypoints, triggers, units 
 everything! The multiplayer feature is good and yes it's good, it's mostly deathmatch or defending 
 the flag, and up to 100 players! This game is a classic, it's worth a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: buraka
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 30, 2007 2:18 pm PT
Review:  This game is in my top ten. Not because it is perfect but because it achieves what it has set to 
 do. Let me remind you that this is not a FPS. If your expectations are a FPS like Battlefield series 
 or even Ghost Recon, this game is not for you. This is a pure armed forces simulation.
  
  The real beauty in this game is the free format of the gameplay. You can go wherever you like, 
 you can drive any vehicle you see.. You don't even have to follow mission waypoints. As it is a 
 simulation, you are very weak against bullets. I mean it. 1 or 2 hits will kill you. There is no 
 health kits or armor packs in the game. If you are not killed in the first shot, the only thing 
 you can do is to go to a medic (if he is still alive) and get a treatment. Weapons are very realistic 
 too. Effective ranges are simulated in depth. You can't kill an enemy 500m ahead with MP5. There 
 are no magic zooms either. Concealment, cover, squadron tactics are all there for you to use. Even 
 with all those you are going to be so afraid in engagements that, you'll wonder how in the real 
 world some people become heroes. Operation Flashpoint is filled with unforgettable moments. For 
 example even in the second mission, enemy tanks arrive at the town you just occupied and you get 
 retreat order. While you are retreating you are confident that your M1 tanks will take care of 
 T80s (isn't it always the case in Hollywood?) but they are destroyed in a couple of seconds. What 
 remains, in the open field, T80s and your squadron. And they begin to wipe out the squadron one 
 by one and you hear 3 is down, 4 is down , etc... You try to run into woods.. But god... T80s can 
 even strike down the trees. And you RUN LIKE HELL. Ladies and gentleman this is one of the scariest 
 moments in the gaming history....
  
  As I said before, this game is not perfect. Graphics are not great but it works. The real problem 
 is the controls. You are getting used to it in a few hours, but I know many people who did not 
 and stopped playing for this reason only. But I advise you not to do it. Operation Flashpoint is 
 a classic. Just be patience at the beginning and you will thank me at the end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: atony12
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 6, 2007 12:30 pm PT
Review:  ok operation flashpoint is a game about the russians taking over a large island u start off as 
 a NATO grunt in training than u get ur first taste of combat when the russians start to invade 
 the island u also get to play as a tank commander, helicopter pilot, and a spec ops guy once u get 
 to a certain point in the campain u meet the resistance (wont tell u how u meet them cause thats 
 a spoiler :) and from there on u unlocked another campain where u r the leader of the resistance 
 and that gives u more feedback on how the russians invaded and stuff and also u can continue with 
 the army campain
  
  this game has very realistic physic system u get shot in the leg u will walk slower or like wat 
 happened to me a few times was an rpg round went off close to ya but not real close and killed 
 one of ur squadies cause it pretty much landed on him while u were thrown off ur feet and possibly 
 got some serious wounds ( my legs got hit real badly so i couldnt walk or crouch i had to crawl 
 through enemy lines oh trust me it was a joy :) there is a medic though that can heal ya but not 
 to full health
  
  once u advance through the ranks u will be able to lead a squad (dont worry 1st mission as a leader 
 is simple so u know the basics) and it will point wat this command does and stuff
  
  well thats my review of the game there still is alot more that i probably missed but i guess that 
 means that u gotta play the game to see wat :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GibboViper
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 2, 2007 10:17 am PT
Review:  Operation Flashpoint.
  
  Well, Its a classic for sure, we are talking 2001-2002, and who hasnt heard of this game, they 
 must be in a minority. One of the first shooters where you really feel immersed in the environment 
 and that your every move really does count. Realistic gameplay and the weapons and options for 
 survival are numerous, this games was months of fun, and etched a new benchmark in the standard 
 of shooters. The game is set during the cold war error and the Russians are gunning for you! In 
 Operation Flashpoint you get to play as various members of the armed forces and have to carry out 
 some seriously difficult missions. Eventually you will get the chance to stride out in a tank (very 
 realistic) helicopters and even planes. (The helicopter was difficult to master but extremely rewarding 
 once you have mastered it) . Before each mission you will normally see a little cut scene, and then 
 you get thrown straight into action. You will find that in action the game is very very unforgiving 
 and every bullet counts as much as your aim. You have to learn fast and adapt and keep pace. If 
 you dont the AI will nail you as soon as you can find the time to reload. Occasionally you might 
 get flanked and so hiding is an option where bushes and trees provide great cover. If there are 
 no trees and bushes you are in trouble and you must think through the other options before the 
 enemy get too close.
  You can heal of medics in your squad or at medic tents, never leave it too long before you heal. 
 The environments are pretty big and it takes you a long time to cover ground whether youre in 
 a vehicle or not. Sound effects and graphics were as up to date as can be for the time, we are 
 talking some years ago and yes, there was a small amount of pixelation but the game plays so well 
 I think we can forgive for this. Multiplayer is pretty satisfying as well but you will need a reasonably 
 fast computer for this. CTF especially fun but staying alive proved a task in it self. All in all 
 the game serves up a new experience and a new feel to being in that war environment and keeps you 
 gripped and on the edge of your seat when playing. Definitely a pleasurable experience and one 
 that should be tried at least once, even just for old times sake. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gigason
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 16, 2007 6:51 am PT
Review:  Detailed graphics, a mission editor, variety of weapons and vehicles and the realism factor, huge 
 maps.... its really a bargain. Its game-play is not recommended to novice FPS players as the realism 
 factor makes it almost impossible to win by the typical charge-and-shoot FPS games. How to enjoy 
 it? Go get a military strategy guide and know when to do what. The team factor is not to be ignored, 
 and players depend on each other or AI. Overall, it is a very well made game that can be made to 
 stand on equal footing with battlefield 1942 and vietnam, although it lacks a user-friendly mission 
 editor. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hans-Jaeger
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 10, 2007 7:51 am PT
Review:  One of the best games ever created, standing the test of time.
  
  No other military war sim is anything close to this classic, the gameplay is extremely diverse, 
 the AI is of a high standard and the size of the terrain is immense, with so many different mission 
 styles and tactical strategy nothing is ever the same.
  
  Also with the added support from community addons etc this game has something new all the time.
 
  
  This game will never die, a veteran to this game for over 6 years and rising, I would highly recommend 
 anyone looking for a military sim to try it out, you won't regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jepps2007
Rating: 3
Date: Apr 8, 2007 6:09 am PT
Review:  Operation could be the worst game i have ever played, that may be a bold statement, but i feel 
 quite strongly towards this point.
  
  Gameplay 4/10 Boring, boring, boring youll hardly ever have to shoot anything if anyone dies you 
 get the blame, and overall just terrible.
  
  Graphics 2/10 Yes the game is six years old but my word theyre bad ... i mean i really cant express 
 in words how bad the graphics are ...
  
  Sound 6/10 Highlight of the game at least it isnt too bad, some of the voice acting gets almost 
 embarrassing at times ...
  
  Value 4/10 No reason to go back through no reason to play it first time around.
  
  Bassically 
 ill say it like this Do not buy do not play do not even think about operation flashpoint: cold war 
 crisis you will regret it! its terrible! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ultra_ST
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 12, 2007 2:45 am PT
Review:  Operation Flashpoint takes place on some fictional islands called Malden, Everon and Kolugjev. 
 Operation Flashpoint is about when some unknown force invades Everon soon you find out that they 
 are soviets from Russia. You fight as a private soldier, a tank commander, a pilot or a spec ops. 
 The game play is highly realistic and you can get killed in one shot. There are loads of vehicles 
 to drive like the jeep, UAZ , BMP-1 and way more. The battle field seems like it is a real Island, 
 there is a great campaign consisting of 40 missions. The graphics though could do with some work 
 but the visuals are still great and have many small details that make it look good such as head 
 lights, smoke, moving clouds and more. There is always more than one solution to missions and the 
 way you choose leads to sometimes different missions. The value of the game is great and worth 
 it. There are air units you can also fly like the AH-1 Cobra, UH-60 Blackhawk, MI-24 Hind, SU-25 
 and more. There is a large range of units you can be and many extras. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ArmA101
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 18, 2007 12:25 pm PT
Review:  Operation Flash Point is an amazing game that combines Stealth , Heroism and Action into one package 
 this game is a must buy if you love realistic shooters on the other hand if you prefer geting close 
 up and personal to the enemy or like to take knifes to NPCs this game is not one for you. This 
 game is a very well thought out FPS with Cunning AI and a whole bunch of vehicles and weapons. 
 This game is a masterpiece and is clearly still an amazing game that can compete just as good as 
 every other FPS out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: airsoftmanic
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 17, 2007 12:09 pm PT
Review:  thsi is a cool game. rubbish graphics compared to todays standards, but it is still cool.
  the whole aspect of your a squad member, rather than an intire division by yourself is actually 
 really good as you play it for the first time and instantly die because to expect to be able to 
 take loads of bullets but you cant, 2 shots from anything will bring you down and headshots do 
 count. to counteract this you also get 2 shot kills and headshots.
  but the weapons in this frankly are beautiful. they include almost EVERY weapon known in the cold 
 war era (yes even nukes)
  
  story is brilliant, better than some films that ive seen. you even get promoted in the game and 
 given a squad to command. though this is complicated and even after ages of practise i still dont 
 get it fully.
  
  but this is all completely irrelavent. the senario editor is where its party piece is. with this 
 you can pretty make anything you want, from and massed charge from the russians at you and your 
 squad with nothing but a rifle and a few grenades each, to 3 hour long sniper missions where you 
 have to get from pretty much one end of an island to another with everything on the way.
  (this is not of my creation, someone else made that one)
  and you have everything in the game 
 at your finger tips. think of Garry's mod for HL2 and you pretty much got the basics.
  i knocked up a short senario in about 30 minutes whereas people have made companies to make mods 
 for OpF that take years developing a single senario.
  the possiblilities are endless, literally. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gta11
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 17, 2006 12:04 am PT
Review:  Operation Flashpoint Cold War Crisis For PC.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  ===========================================================
  THE GOOD : Tanks, Planes, Helicopters 
 and other driveable objects are completely awesome, gameplay is fun, sound is good.
  ===========================================================
  THE BAD : Graphics could have been 
 more detailed.
  ===========================================================
  
  
  
  Well, I remember when I first played this game. I'm not going to lie, it's frustrating at first. 
 There are many people who play this game for about 30 minutes before crying about how hard it is. 
 In short, this is a real first-person shooter that will actually challenge you, unlike most shooters 
 today, which are (for the most part quite,) stereotypical and boring.
  
  Gameplay : As I might have said already, this game starts off hard and stays that way. This is 
 most certainly not a game you will master in a mere 5 minutes. With that said.......
  
  The controls will take a little getting used to, but after the introduction, you should be ready 
 enough for your first mission. Whilst you are fighting the enemy, it's advised that you listen 
 to your commander, and stay in formation with your troops. Sometimes, you'll score the most kills 
 out of everyone in your formation, sometimes your role will be piratically worthless (remember, 
 there's no 'I' in team kids.) This is a game where your teammates will actually do something, instead 
 of moping around whilst you do all of the work. However, there are times that you command your 
 troops, and sometimes, you have to go at it alone.
  
  The part that blew me away however, was the fights themselves. What a (sadly) large portion of 
 gamers don't realize is that war isn't fought at point-blank range. You will usually be shooting 
 at enemies that are roughly 150-350 meters away. In reality, if you try to run up to someone and 
 kill them in a gunfight, you'll die, which is what happens if you try it here. Also, the enemies 
 are accurate, and the damage you take is faithful to what would happen if you were actually shot 
 in war. If you are shot in the arms, you'll have massive trouble handling your weapon, if you're 
 shot in the leg, you are reduced to crawling, and if you're shot in the head, you're dead. Unlike 
 some games (which shall remain nameless) where you can get shot into swiss cheese without dying.
 
  
  Graphics : This is the game's main weak point. The fact that the weakest part of this game gets 
 a seven only shows how good it really is. Personally, I don't really care about graphics, for I'm 
 more about gameplay (as you can tell by my lengthy section about it.) For the most part, the graphics 
 are on par with other First Person Shooters from its time.
  
  Sound : Nothing earth-shaking in terms of innovation here. However, the sound is clear, you can 
 easily make out what your allies are saying (unless you stray too far away from them,) and you 
 can hear everything around you in good detail.
  
  
  I'll be honest, I haven't beaten this game yet. It's very hard, even on the easiest level of gameplay. 
 There are also a large number of missions (for the exact number, you'll have to look somewhere 
 else, sorry.) Either you'll love this game, or you'll hate it, there's very few that just....... 
 like it.
  
  
  All in all, this game has no real weak areas, unless you're a graphics junkie. Other than that 
 minor detail, this game certainly didn't get the attention it deserves, and I highly recommend 
 it to anyone who's looking for a realistic gaming experience in terms of gameplay. There is also 
 a multi-player, but I haven't tried it yet, because I'm still busy trying to beat the game first. 
 However, the single player mode is more than enough reason to get this very well done game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gakselso
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 18, 2006 11:58 am PT
Review:  This game probably had more influence on my expectations of gaming than anything else I ever played. 
 Ever. Really.
  
  I was so sick of Doom, Quake, Unreal, etc. I'm just not twitchy enough to compete online in those 
 games, and I never really got the hang of scarfing the rocket launcher and camping it. This was 
 an absolute breath of fresh (smokey, dusty) air. The first time I co-op'ed with a buddy and accidentally 
 shot him in the ass because he was prone in a stand of trees and we hadn't properly communicated 
 our locations, I was hooked. He limped out the rest of that mission as spotter and I got slaughtered 
 trying to rescue the POWs.
  
  The graphics weren't exactly cutting edge, but then again, they kinda were. The pallette was a 
 little bland, but it has a day/night cycle! I could take over any vehicle I wanted, even aircraft! 
 So many revelations of what a game could be in Flashpoint. I finished the campaign, and played 
 so many hours of co-op I was wondering how I was still employed. Then someone came up with the 
 wicked CTF mod. Tooo great. The community for that game was astounding.
  
  I bought the gold edition a year or 2 later because it had OFP, Red Hammer and Resistance all in 
 one pack, we played the hell out Resistance, too! I just realized I'd never actually done the single 
 player campaign in RH so I'm doing that now, postponing my grinding for rank in BF2 for this beloved 
 classic.
  
  I'd highly recommend buying this one if you enjoy tactical war games, it still offers alot to the 
 casual and even not-so-casual gamer, though the graphics in the original campaigns are a little 
 dated. For some reason Resistance seemed better... I rated the difficulty as Hard, only because 
 it takes awhile to master it, even if you've played other tactical games like Rainbow 6, etc. The 
 game can be very unforgiving to the newcomer until you get used to the idea of hiding from bullets!!!
 
  
  I marked it down for graphics only because of the current state of gaming, BF2 is far prettier, 
 but the depth of gameplay just isn't there. Sound is pretty great, though I occasionally get some 
 static in vehicles that clears if I switch to outside view and back.
  
  EDIT: Thought I should add that there are some fantatic mods out there. Since I re-discovered OFP 
 I've installed ECP and some texture mods to improve the graphics. Un-freakin-real. The blood spatter 
 from ECP is particularly entertaining :) Though the AI boost it provides makes things that much 
 more difficult. There's also a forest mod (Bergher's?) that is supposed to make the vegetation 
 crazy good. With a newer computer all this eye candy runs like a charm in an engine designed for 
 PCs of 5 years ago.
  
  Looking forward to Armed Assault with greedy anticipation! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marco245
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 17, 2006 10:51 am PT
Review:  First thing you notice about this game is the graphics... Not good compared to othere games but 
 great graphics in it's time. The other main thing is the devotion to realism on a military backround, 
 while being every bit as open to your imagination! I've seen people do to Operation Flashpoint, 
 what you couldn't do with any other game, that's mainly down to it's ability to support many addons 
 and mods, so many people can use their imagination to increase the game's experience, this is also 
 one of the reasons why many people play it up to date: because as soon as your done with one campaign, 
 you can download another! The online play is a great experience, mainly flawed by the fact that 
 many servers use different mods than your game, but a good server to always play on is the ofp. info 
 server, a very good co-op server. The story is a long and is well structured, mainly following 
 4 men: a pilot, a tank commander, a Black-Op, and a U. S. Ranger. There are many vehicles and weapons 
 to cammandeer, and many scenarios to play in. The possibilities are endless and you can do pretty 
 much anything you want. A lot of us here hope that Armed Assault will live up to the challenge... 
 So what if the graphics are bad, so what if the physics are outdated, it's still one of the best 
 war simulators there is today and it's only about $10 nowadays. I'd highly recomend you buy the 
 Operation Flashpoint: Resistance expansion pack, for many mods and online servers use it, and it 
 adds a new campaign and new stuff too. Anyway, i'll have to leave you now, cause I gotta go play 
 this game now, thanks for reading! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LouieV13
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jun 14, 2006 12:48 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: For todays standards its not to good, but im rating it for when it came out. The Gameplay 
 is pretty good, on foot in the air or in a car, it hold pretty well all tho there is no rag dall 
 physics :cry: that sorta takes some realism away. It says its realistic IT IS!!! You can die in 
 1-3 shots anywhere, you even die if you crash a car into a object too hard!! 8
  
  graphics: For the time they were ok but for now there ugly and bland. The models are creepy looking 
 and always smiling... the first person view is terrible. 7
  
  Sound: Will someone PLEASE kill the guy talking into the mic!!! The voice sounds like somthing 
 from a game from the 80's! Nothing to special except some cool gunshots and explosions... 7
  
  Value: I played for about 40 hours then got board. 6
  
  Ti77: Pretty average... 7 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sk8r196
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 31, 2006 4:36 pm PT
Review:  Probably the best infantry and tactics military simulator ever made, it offers such a wide range 
 of possibilities.
  The tactics are just right, and if you get a chance to play online there are a few mods for extra 
 enjoyment to be had.
  
  The Gameplay as I have already suggested is good, for hwat it is, although vehciles arent as hard 
 to drive/fly as I would have hoped, for some reason :|
  
  The Graphics are good for its time, but the game isnt focused on this aspect, but the game mods 
 relased by such mod studios as UKF show that ofp is capable of high quality graphics, this is particualry 
 shown in the expantion pack: Resistance, which features advanced graphics options.
  
  Sound is farily standard, with the ablity to choose the voice of your player and change the tone, 
 which can be rather funny when playing others online when you should orders in a high pitched mousey 
 tone. But generally the sound could be improoved.
  
  Vale is exelent, I picked it up for 10 ($15-17) at a bargain bin, and is worth the money if your 
 willing to put the effort in.
  
  Its fairly easy to learn to play, its just being good at it is the problem.
  
  The game itself 
 is based around a military campagin against the russians in 1984-5. And has most of the military 
 equipment avalible in that era (M16a1, Ak-74, Ah64 helicopters, Mig jets and lots of other stuff 
 including civilian transport, which is all usable.)
  
  I would say its a worthwhile investment and if your in for a challenge and want somthing to really 
 get you going on the road to 1337-ness, then give this a try.
  
  Links:
  
  http://www.23rd-div. com/
  
  http://www. ofp. info/
  
  http://ofp. gamepark. cz/
  
  http://www. ofpec. com/
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lasertoffe
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 7, 2006 8:38 am PT
Review:  I remember reading reviews on Battlefield 1942 and how people went "wow! you can ride any vehicle 
 and all!". Well... I said "that's what I've been doing for a year".
  
  Operation Flashpoint is one of those games that I installed in 2001 and have never uninstalled 
 since. It just keeps growing and growing. With the extremely devoted community out there this is 
 game gives pure value.
  
  The battles are intense and very hard. The AI is tricky, especially if you have the ECP mod installed. 
 The vehicles are all great.
  
  This game also lacks the arcade gaming style. That makes this game THE war game. No Rambo, jumping 
 and dodging bullets and rockets here. Keep with your group, keep with your strategy and communicate.
 
  
  Me and my friend have been playing this game weekly for years. And with the upcoming Armed Assault 
 (which is pretty much Operation Flashpoint on steroids) we will be playing it until Flashpoint 
 2 comes out.. and then we will be playing that until we die...
  
  This is not a game for anyone looking for fast paced arcade style action. But if you want a game 
 that delivers a truly immersive battle experience where tactics and keeping a cool head counts... 
 this is the one to get. It's practically free these days.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: EdwardLau
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 30, 2006 10:57 am PT
Review:  This is no ordinary First-person-shooter. In fact I can't really call it a game. Its more like 
 a simulation. When you play it, it actually feels like a simulation.
  At a first glance, it may look like a terribly outdated game. Ok, I have to admit texturing could 
 have been better, but it means old systems can play the game. There are also plenty of clippings, 
 and somehow I can rotate my head completely when a passenger in a jeep. But these are all very 
 minor problems when you actually play the game.
  You get to play as several characters, each with their own missions: An infantryman, who gets promoted 
 later on in the game and you lead large operations, a Spec-Ops who has to undertake high-risk missions 
 in which stealth, suprise and speed is the key, a helicopter pilot and a tank commander. THis means 
 you get to do basically everything you'd want to.
  In combat, you'll spend most of your time rushing alonside your allies.. and do whatever they do. 
 They are vital in combat. Sadly their AI is a bit wierd sometimes and they all die pretty quickly. 
 Once three of them rushed off on their own. Don't know why, and they charged a machinegun post. 
 The first got shot, the second kept running and got shot, then the last... got shot.
  Also, the enemy are accurate. Too accurate. In fact they are more accurate than you. Once, I was 
 with my squad on a hill. A high hill. I used my scope and saw an enemy patrol. They were a spec 
 on my screen, and they started firing. One killed my medic, then another man. I doubt that would 
 happen in real life. My squad was also in PRONE position (I believe our camo was'nt good enough) . 
 But you will get over this. It actually improves how you play, forcing you to make a more stealthy 
 approach and use cover.
  The game's sounds are good, but I have to say, the soldiers sound like robots. "One, Fall back" 
 "Two, engage infantry" "Three, engage infantry" "Four, engage BMP" "Five, Fall back". But luckily 
 they sund realistic enough.
  Everything else in the game is great, although I would have liked the game to be a bit more of 
 an action game, but hey, its a simulation!
  An important point is the AMAZING modding community. On the BI forums, you get replies within minutes, 
 and the number of high quality mods is uncountable. For thos people who want a perfect game, download 
 these mods! 
  Hope Bohemia are successful in their next games.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkSnakesoul
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 28, 2006 10:23 pm PT
Review:  This game is very nicely done in away. The graphics aren't the top like doom 3 or anything like 
 that but hey with all the things that added in here can't blame them.
  
  The game is set during the cold war.... ya the war that shouldn't be called a war because nothing 
 really happened. But this game puts it where things do happen and its up to you to fight. The game 
 has alot of neat things such as vehicles from tanks to jeeps to planes and etc. Every vehicle you 
 see you can drive from a tracker to a civi car to the enemies' parked units. 
  
  The game has an open area meaning its like gta you can go anywhere. But they added all the missions 
 in one area so if you drive off the map you can end up finding nothing but ghost towns. Also you 
 can fail missions if you run off to far. 
  
  The game also has a neat health system, annoying but neat. There is no health bar to show you if 
 your wounded or not.... like real life but if you get shot in the head its over your dead but if 
 you get shot in the leg you will prone down or stand but can't run making it alittle more realistic. 
 
  
  The missions are nicely done with alot of enemies and storylines. Also your team you start with 
 will talk and make jokes as they drive around with you in the back relaxing. But your ai are pretty 
 dumb such as running into cross fires or just standing while being shot at. The enemy isn't any 
 better because they will run up to you and then shoot, their tanks though is another story they 
 have a mind of their own sometimes such as driving in a house or trying to run you over.... i understand 
 they hate you but hey don't have to go all out on ya.....
  
  There are missions where you get to control a tank squad to small groups of soldiers. The commands 
 you get are amazing such as allowing them to drive you around or shoot for you or flank the enemy. 
 Also some times you get special commands such as calling in the cobras to help out ,these air boys 
 will blow anything away that stands around.
  
  There are some bugs/ sad things such as you can't swim, if you fall off you sometimes break your 
 legs ending up crawling away. Sometimes you are out number 1 to 10000 and somtimes you get stuck 
 such as stuck in a house or end up sinking into the ground. 
  
  But overall a great war game for those loving first person and some close realistic combat. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mpoverege
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 27, 2006 1:02 am PT
Review:  Well what can I say, This is deffenetly the best war simulator ever created for PC, right now there 
 is about 5,000 add-ons and mods for this game, the "Map Editor" in Operation FlashPoint is the 
 best thing that I ever seen in any game period. .Operation Flashpoint might just prove to be the 
 first truly successful virtual battlefield for gamers. It's shaping up to be one of the best action 
 games of the  
 dont think that there will be better game than Operation FlashPoint , exept OFP2 and Armed Assult, 
 from the same  
 recommend this game for who ever likes real war simulation! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: timbo0827
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 23, 2006 3:16 pm PT
Review:  Operation Flashpoint to me first seemed liked a bargain title that would get low reviews and would 
 end up being a waste of time playing. Well I actually played it and I was amazed. The graphics 
 are outdated and the sound isn't the greatest, but I had a lot of fun playing. What I like most 
 about Operation Flashpoint is the map editor. In the map editor you can make extremly large battles. 
 Operation Flashpoint is also the most realistic game I have played. If you are lucky you can take 
 about three bullets but on average you and any other soldier will be killed in one or two. I highly 
 recommend this game for any hard core gamers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: p232
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 12, 2006 3:16 am PT
Review:  If you don't have this game, so what are you waiting for?? This is one of the first war game I 
 have ever played, and its the best of them, and I have never played a war game longer then I did 
 with this. This game is the game that maked me starting playing war gamesm, and I love it. Exept 
 from the graffic, is this game almost as good as the war games today, and maeby even better. The 
 best thing in this game is that you can make your own mission, and I have never seen in another 
 game anything like that. So i recommed this game very much, you will love it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TigerISF
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 21, 2006 11:20 am PT
Review:  Operation Flashpoint is an incredible game. It is the only game that made me feel that i actually 
 fight in real combat. In many other games the combat is scripted and not realistic. But in this 
 game when you play you have total freedom of choice about the mission you have. You can decide 
 what way to go and how to approach the mission. When you are an infantry commander you give your 
 soldiers their weapons, you decide what is best suited for the mission you have, no one decides 
 for you. When the mission starts you have total control of your team, you can give them almost 
 any order you like. You can choose 7 different formations, you can order them to attack any target, 
 or not to attack at all for stealth. Like any real commander in any battlefield. 
  
  This game has very realistic approach to weapons. Every soldier can carry one main weapon and one 
 second weapons. Every weapon is realistic. M16 is the same as real M16. AK47 is like a real AK47. 
 Even the fire sounds are different and reflect every weapon in a realistic way.
  
  Operation Flashpoint features a wide range of guns: 
  West: Beretta 92F/FS, GLOCK 17, Smith & 
 Wesson .357 Magnum, Heckler & Koch MP5, M16A2, CAR-15, Steyr AUG, G36, M60, M21, MM1, M72 LAW, 
 Carl Gustav, FIM-92 Stinger. 
  East: TT-33, CZ-Scorpion, Bizon, AK-74, AKS-74U, AKS-74U, Dragunov Sniper Rifle, RPG, AT-4, SA-7.
 
  Resistance: CZ-75, MAC-10, SA 58, Kozlice Shotgun, Remington 700.
  
  This game also has huge vehicle arsenal: 
  West: M151 Jeep, HMMWV, M939 5-ton Truck, M113A2, 
 M2A2, M60A1 Patton Tank, M1A1 Abrams, M163 Vulcan.
  East: UAZ-469, BRDM-2U, Ural 375, BMP-1, BMP-2, T-72B1, T-80BV, ZSU-23-4 Shilka.
  
  And aircraft 
 arsenal:
  West: OH-58 Kiowa Warrior, UH-60A Blackhawk, CH-47D Chinook, AH-1S Cobra, AH-64A Apache, A-10 Thunderbolt.
 
  East: Mi-8MT, Mi-24V, Ka-50.
  
  Every vehicle and aircraft is unique. Tanks have 3 soldiers operating them: Commander (gives orders 
 to the driver and the gunner) , Driver (drives the tank) and Gunner (fires the weapons of the tank) .
 
  
  The tank simulation and the aircraft simulation is done very good although its not as good as the 
 infantry simulation but it still one of the best Ive seen in a game. 
  
  The game also has a very powerful mission editor that enables the player to create his own missions 
 and campaigns. Also there is a very big Operation Flashpoint community that makes mods, add-ons, 
 mission, and even full length campaigns for this game. 
  
  Overall I think this is one of the best PC games of all time and definitely the best in its genre 
 of combat simulation games.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mark82101
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 21, 2006 1:12 pm PT
Review:  Hide, sneak up on enemies, defend and attack your way through intense military campaigns this detailed 
 combat and tactical experience. Game of the Year Edition includes Operation Flashpoint: Cold War 
 Crisis, Operation Flashpoint: Red Hammer Expansion Pack and Operation Flashpoint: Resistance Expansion 
 Pack.
  I don't have words. Is only perfect! The war simulation of all Days. Operation Flashpoint was a 
 revolution for games of 2001: we can pilot tanks, planes, choppers, cars, and we can use a lot 
 of weapons. The storyline is very good or perfect! My heart pump for it. Operation Flashpoint is 
 a "Must Have"! Buy this now, or go to your friend if have it, and play with or without his consent! 
 I'm waiting for Operation Flashpoint 2, but now, I play this true simulation!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: terryprior
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 17, 2006 6:45 am PT
Review:  Penetrating even deeper into Operation Flashpoint territory, comes Operation Flashpoint: Game of 
 the Year edition. Raw recruits to Operation Flashpoint can experience the impending conflict with 
 just one complete package. The award winning game is fully loaded with every upgrade, add-on and 
 expansion, including all vehicles, weapons and extra campaigns released to date. Operation Flashpoint: 
 Game of the Year contains Operation Flashpoint: Cold War Crisis, Red Hammer and Resistance in one 
 box: Operation Flashpoint: Cold War Crisis scenario is modern warfare: It is 1985, in the midst 
 of the Cold War, and Gorbachev has been elected to power bringing with him policies of glasnost 
 and perestroika. However, resistance Soviet groups are opposed to the new wave and are refusing 
 to serve the new regime in Moscow. One group has taken control of an island community, and is using 
 it as an armed stronghold for the old order. Enhancing the Flash
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rtombak
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 10, 2006 2:33 pm PT
Review:  You get shot, you dont know where u are hit, becouse it doesnt matter, all you need to do is to 
 find a first aid pack and SHAZAAAM u are good as new. If you think that this is just bull crap 
 then this game is just for you. There are no medikits, there are no super heroes, you dont have 
 the slightest chance against 3 enemy if you are all alone, and believe me when i say that cos you 
 will be alone when you are the only surviver...
  
  Its all about timing, you cannot shot someone within 4 miles or smthn, therefore you have to get 
 closer and not bee seen yet if there are three or more enimies and if u are all by your side, you 
 better start running the other way, cos if you miss , they wont!!! and another feature is hiding. 
 Hiding and timing is crutial in this game, you cant wonder around and try too shoot people, you 
 have to aim an get cover, as i said before your enimies are not dumm. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fatbill
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 24, 2005 9:35 am PT
Review:  Has got to be one of the best war sim games on the market. Am hooked and wil be getting every other 
 one of these in the series. TOTALLY RECOMMENDED.
  
  Would also recommend highly that you download from the dedicated website all the donloads and mods 
 before playing for the first time. Good choice of characters and utilities. 
  
  Unfortunatly I cannot comment of gameplay over the net YET but of all the games that I have of 
 this ilk this one is by a country mile the best. As with most games had no troubles with loading 
 or setting up for sound and graphics.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_real_apa
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 22, 2005 5:05 pm PT
Review:  I have read some other reviews here about the game and the only thing I can say is that you cant 
 judge this game correctly if you have not played it until resently. 
  
  When this game arrived in....2001 i think, i read a preview about Flashpoint and i wasn't impressed. 
 The game looked awful.
  Then I tried the demo and I thought it was amazing.
  You have to play through this game to appreciate it because the first impression is not so good.
 
  Even though it not looks like the game is deep in the first missions, the game is deeper than 
 the Challenger Deep.
  
  Warning: This game is not an FPS and should not be played like one, the best way to describe the 
 game is that its a simulator. The game is very realistic and if you just run into combat you will 
 get killed which often leads to that you have to restart the mission. Real military tactics works 
 in this game and you have to have patience to enjoy this kind of game.
  
  At first you begin as a simple private, taking orders from your superiors and just doing as your 
 told. Then after a couple of missions the first extra-ordinary thing happens.
  The island, Everon, where the Nato (you play as a NATO soldier) army is deployed on is being attacked 
 by the russians and the whole Nato army must retreat to the neighbor island. The problem is that 
 you have lost your whole squad and you are alone in the woods of Everon, behind enemy lines. In 
 the following mission you have to get to Morton to take the boat off the island and meet up with 
 the Nato army. The last boat from Everon is leaving at 5:45 pm ( the game is in real-time meaning 
 1 hour in the game is 1 hour in reality) and between you and Morton is the Russian army. This mission 
 is nerve-breaking as you hide in bushes with tanks rolling by just in front of you and crossing 
 fields with helicopters on your tale. 1 hit is very often enough to kill you and if you get shot 
 in the legs you will have to crawl the whole way ( which takes a LONG time) . The great thing about 
 this game is that its no "Game Over" if you dont make it to the boat by 5:45, instead a couple 
 of side-missions will start as you get rescued by the resistance-force. You must help them in a 
 couple of missions before you can return to the Nato army.
  
  The Campaign is extremely long and will involve not just playing as a regular soldier, you will 
 fly helicopters and planes, lead a squad as a squad leader, drive tanks and AA vehicles and much 
 more. The game is so incredibly deep and no mission is like another.
  
  I will spoil a thing because i just cant hold myself..... the last mission is about gathering your 
 old squad to take the bus (?) to the pub and get a beer.
  
  This game has Co-op and it works perfect, the missions are exactly the same but one soldier in 
 the squad gets replaced by your friend. I cant say that the multiplayer is better that Battlefield 
 2: s but its not far from.... 
  
  If you give this game some time you will get an amazing experience that you will never forget.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DrEru
Rating: 7.4
Date: Dec 9, 2005 4:19 am PT
Review:  An impressive game in many respects. Very immersive, well thought out campaign element. Enjoyable 
 to play, some missions exceptionally so. Some parts work better than others, with the aircraft 
 and vehicle sections working less well than the soldiers view.
  The game actually works better if you don't have command of a squad, which is tedious to manouvre. 
 Could learn from Brothers in Arms in this area.
  The graphics (twitchy) and sound (occasionally disappointing) let it down a bit at times.
  Overall 
 the weaknesses don't prevent it from being an extremely enjoyable game. They just give the impression 
 to developers were a little too ambitious. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rmj
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 26, 2005 9:10 pm PT
Review:  THIS GAME IS NOT FOR KIDS!! 
  I wanted this when it first came out I had a slow machine p2 266 , HEHE with 16 bit video card 
 ! LOL but I grew out of my PLAYSTATION AND MY PS2 ! Saw this game box and loved what it said, I 
 buy the game, and its all it says it is and more!
  It even ran on my slow machine! I instantly bought a newer video card to bring the graphics up 
 to a tolerable 1024x768 LOL yes that was amazing back then! then with the worlds being as VAST 
 as they were I Had to get a bigger monitor 19" CRT !"LCD, S" are not for gameing if your a TRUE 
 GAMER! It is an older game the graphics are not HL2 but "NOTHING" comes even near this game in 
 game play!!! not even BF2 or any of the other so called REAL MILITARY GAMES there is more the 8 
 entire island of over 100 square kilometers on each NOTHING COMES CLOSE!
  THE GAME BECAME VERY ADDICTIVE! and is very realistic u can be killed with 1 shot from an enemy 
 weapon!
  
  So many ways to do things! I played this game alone for a year before I considered my self worthy 
 to play online! but when I did join ,I did not make a fool of myself .I was able to be lead or 
 be the leader ,I could handle any armored vehical ,AND I WAS JUST DEADLY IN AN ATTACK CHOPPER.
 
  The more u play the more u learn! the learning curve for this game is very big! this game takes 
 days ,even weeks to learn how to do things correctly! 
  If u like games that are very realistic and u like to lead squads, ground squads / tank squad/ 
 jet squad/ chopper squad/ black ops, this game has no end! 
  I have become what i consider a PRO at this game! I have been playing this game ONLINE In mainly 
 coop missions with 2 to 32 players .I have collected more then 900 coop missions and made about 
 14 my self nothing comes close to the OFP series !
  "Resistance" is a great game too But all the addons that mission makers keep trying in there new 
 missions online, quickly killed that game! VERY SAD!
  I have tried many other games online I have most everything ,But they are all the same run and 
 gun ,YAWN, never nothing new no real skills but with this game there is allways a new mission to 
 download or get from someone on gamespy when u play with them! oh yes the AUDIO IS IN REAL 5.1 
 so u can hear where u are being fired on from ,or u can hear which direction that chopper or armored 
 vehical is coming from ! the first game i have to have real 5.1 audio!
  
  BEEN WAITING FOR OFP2 for allmost 3 years now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pehota
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 25, 2005 3:13 pm PT
Review:  i have played OPF for 2 years and still i am not bored with it, as it was with many other games. 
 This game is truly revolutionary. However, it takes a time to play it good. Graphics is good (especially 
 for 2001, when this game was released) Game play is awsome. All weapons that exist in our time 
 is present there! Full reality of war. Now there are many patches for the game, which help game 
 stability, and fix a lot of buggs. New Weapon have been added, helps with gameplay. One problem 
 is Sound. OFP has medicore sound, they should fix it in OFP2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thomasonfa
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 14, 2005 9:01 pm PT
Review:  OPFLASH is still one of my favorite games to play. I remember when I first installed it on my computer 
 the install window has a news person telling the news to even draw you in before you can play it. 
 
  You are able to do what you want in this game, meaning when you are flying in on your first mission 
 and the chopper lands to drop you off. You may stay with your squad or go out like Rambo. The vehicles 
 are accessible in the game. 
  What draw me into Operation Flashpoint was the fact the battle is going on around you. You help 
 in this battle, since it is non linear you may beat the levels how you see fit. 
  This game has a large community of modders who come up with new stuff for the game that could have 
 you playing forever. With the "create your own missions" that adds a extra level to the game.
 
  The multi-player is the best part and there are numbers of ways to play it. Not "just" capture 
 the flag or death match, there are commander mode that lets you take part in setting the camp and 
 you play your roles that are assigned to you.
  Over all this is the only game that you have to pick up for realism and fun. BUY IT. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: montzag
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 2, 2005 8:56 pm PT
Review:  If you like war shooters and are a stikler for realism as I am you will enjoy this game. There 
 is a nearly infinite battlefield that you have at your disposal and you can go anywhere and do 
 your mission however you want. It's great. Also, AI is real! Isn't that a change? Your Ai, while 
 not great, will actually kill things, I've gone through missions sometimes with only one or two, 
 while the computer has done most of the work. I love this. I think it's great to see AI that actually 
 does something, unlike MOH AI which are just cannon fodder. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Plank-
Rating: 2.9
Date: Jun 28, 2005 11:43 am PT
Review:  What a dissapointment this was. The premise of Operation Flashpoint looked great; open battlefields, 
 non-linear gameplay, real tactical gameplay, lots of pilotable vehicles and a supposedly deep story. 
 What you actually get it is a tacky, almost sickeningly unplayable game.
  
  Controls: When will foreign studios ever get a clue and start intergrating proper control schemes 
 into these kind of games. Before I continue, I understand that tactical games have to have realistic 
 controls to retain a certain level of realism, but that obviously wasn't the goal here. When you 
 move your mouse, rather than the crosshair remaining in the centre of the screen and your viewpoint 
 moving, the crosshair moves until you hit the side of the screen, at which point your viewpoint 
 will move. This makes no sense, as you struggle to aim the crosshair asif you're moving a mouse 
 pointer around on your desktop. This seriously hampers your aiming ability.
  
  Movement is another major control problem. When you move, your gun swings all over the palce and 
 goes down to your side, rather than staying in one place and moving a little when you move around. 
 Your gun also swings all over the place in an even uglier fashion when aiming. You accelerate like 
 a slug in all directions too, which makes the entire control process even more confusing.
  
  The default control scheme is utterly idiotic. Crouch is mapped to Q, Prone is mapped to Z, 
 the operation menu (basically a little box that pops up in the right-hand bottom corner) is mapped 
 to Enter, navigating this box is mapped to your mouse-wheel, changing to third-person view is mapped 
 to your numpad enter button; the list of stupid decisions is endless. Trying to change the controls 
 is infuriating and confusing and attempting to map my mouse failed, although i didn't really look 
 that much into it because this game sucks anyway.
  
  The vehicle controls are another design decision that just boggles the mind. They took the time 
 to map player controls, but they couldn't even map secondary vehicle controls for those of us unlucky 
 enough to have two broken PS/2 ports and only two USB ports, and those who don't even have a joystick. 
 Wouldn't it just have come naturally to a normal human being that it might be a good idea to map 
 the helicopter controls like, maybe, i dunno, Battlefield Vietnam or something?. W for thrust, 
 S for reverse thrust, A for rotate left and D for rotate right?. Arrow keys for moving aound?. 
 
  
  Stupid, just plain damn stupid.
  
  So for controls, i give this game a 2. It's barely playable, and i'd like to give the idiots at 
 Bohemia Interactive a punch in the head for being illogical fools.
  
  Graphics: Decent. The graphics, while being high-poly in places, are bland and colourless. The 
 animations are okay, but nothing special.
  
  Gameplay: What gameplay?. IF you somehow manage to get a grip on the controls, you'll be hard pressed 
 to find ANY fun running around the bland environments shooting soldiers in the distance. The vehicles 
 are okay, comprising of jeeps, tanks, planes and helicopters but as i never got to flying one, 
 i can only assume it'd be a boring and unfun experiance much like the rest of this game.
  
  The story is retarded. It's yet another moronic game set in some far off country during the Cold 
 War where some president dude has been assassinated or something blah blah, typical "tactical" 
 game plot. The cutscenes are ingame and poorly animated and the dialogue is pathetic, but acceptable 
 considering these guys don't really know how to make a First-Person Shooter.
  
  Sound: Just your average shooter sounds. Soundtrack is nothing special, the voice dialogue is pretty 
 dodgy though.
  
  Overall, this game makes me sick. It's terrible, tacky and cheap. No polish went into any part 
 of this game, and the control scheme just makes you want to explode in total confusion. What the 
 hell is wrong with these people?. Have they EVER played a game, elt alone an FPS before?. I had 
 really high hopes for this game but it completely disapointed me.
  
  How any of the previous reviews can say that this game is good or a "Masterpiece" only shows what 
 awful taste some gamers have. Are they blind or something?, or maybe they're the people who developed 
 this game attempting to make it look good.
  
  Do not buy this game. Stay right away for your own sake. Go and play a good tactical game, or something 
 like Battlefield 1942 if you like vehicles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HKFlash
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 12, 2005 11:02 am PT
Review:  When Bohemia Interactive released this game, I didnt even hear about it. Then I went to get some 
 videogames and decided to buy it, unaware of the fantastic product I had just bought. This game 
 is revolutionary and anyone that likes realistic and tactical shooters must get this game.
  
  The game graphics are not the best I've seen so far, so dont expect the level of detail of 
 Ghost Recon. Anyway, you got some pretty good scenarios and a nice particle system. The bad thing 
 about the graphics are the 3D models of the characters which are very jaggy, but the vehicles are 
 very well made, and have a good level of detail. The effects are quite nice except for the lightning 
 that is very simple. The huge maps are over 100 Km2 and contain forests, roads, towns, etc. You 
 can set the draw distance from 500m to 5000m giving you a good horizon line.
  
  As for sounds, the music is very good, with excellent soundtracks. The sounds of the hand weapons, 
 like the M-16A2 or the AK-74 are not realistic, but there are other nice sounds, like when a tank 
 fires its main gun, the helicopter rotor, etc. Plus it supports the most recent advancement in 
 sound technology: EAX.
  
  But the heart of this game is the gameplay. In this FPS you can play as everything you want, from 
 soldier, to machine gunner, grenadier, tank crewman or pilot. There are many weapons for you to 
 use; including rifles, machine guns and grenade launchers, and they all have 2D ironsights for 
 better accuracy. Speaking of accuracy, this game is not a shoot-and-run game. Its highly realistic 
 and you must use carefully placed shots to kill the enemy. To improve accuracy you may lie prone 
 or crouch, each of these with its advantages. The game also incorporates a damage model to the 
 characters, so if you are hit in an arm your accuracy may or may not decrease much or not so much, 
 if you are hit a leg you may not be able to walk, etc.
  
  You are able to drive and pilot EVERY vehicle in this game, like the AH-1 Cobra, the M1A1 Abrams 
 or a simple civilian car. Each of them has its weapon systems and they can carry more than one 
 passenger. For example: jeeps can carry up to 4 soldiers (a driver and 3 passengers) and an AH-1 
 Cobra carries a pilot and a gunner. Of course vehicles can be destroyed but the tanks include a 
 damage model, so if you get hit on the turret and it get severely damaged you wont be able to use 
 it.
  
  Building can also be destroyed and heavy vehicles like a tank can send a tree into the ground by 
 smashing it. By the way, there seems to be some issues with the Close Quarters Battle in this game, 
 so you wont be able to fight very well inside buildings due to coillision detection problems.
 
  
  Now about the plot of the game: the year 1985. You are a NATO soldier of the US Army stationed 
 in one the three game island, Malden which serves as a NATO military base. Suddenly your commanders 
 send you in a mission to liberate a young republic, whose name is Everon. Apparently it got attacked 
 by unknown forces, but you will soon find out who they are. This is an excellent campaign and apart 
 from playing with the soldier, you will also play as a tank commander, a pilot and special operative. 
 Special operative missions of course, are sabotage, recon and assassination missions, and they 
 can hide bodies to prevent the enemy from detecting you. There are more than 30 missions for you 
 to complete.
  
  In Operation Flashpoint you are also able to command up to 12 soldiers, and theres a special camera 
 mode for it. You order them to drive vehicles or use a wide variety of formations. By the way, 
 the game AI is very good and dynamic, so its compatible with any type of mission you make.
  
  Well thats all fellas... or maybe not. The game has a multiplayer part, so you it has a nasty 
 netcode... anyway you can play with up to 32 players by LAN or internet.
  
  Theres also a great mission editor that enables players to create both missions and campaigns.
 
  
  So enjoy the game guys, its worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jason210
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 9, 2005 7:19 pm PT
Review:  Operation Flashpoint was revolutionary when it came out in 2001, and the fact that it is still 
 in popular use today is testimony to its value in terms of money and game play, so before I say 
 more, Im giving it a clean 10 for those!
  
  What makes Operation Flashpoint special is the level of immersivity offered by the introduction 
 of a non-linear game engine, an extensive AI system, and the ability to get in and drive or fly 
 various replicas of NATO and Soviet vehicles. The non-linear aspect of the game engine means that 
 instead completing levels in a linear way, as one would in Doom III, the player instead is left 
 to roam on a large island containing towns and villages, and has a set of objectives to complete. 
 It is entirely up to the player how he or she completes them. 
  
  The player can be charge of an AI squad of 11 which he can control by giving orders through radio. 
 This is presented to the player by what is probably the most extensive menu system in any first 
 person game, allowing the player almost full control over AI. There are probably around 60 or 80 
 basic commands, and the menu is very easy to use.
  
  The game can based be described as virtual reality war , and it gives the player a sense of freedom 
 and adventure that is perhaps found only in wide games one might have played in the real world 
 when in the boy scouts, or in a paint ball game or something like that. The fact that you can be 
 part of a crew, or go off on your own and try to be the hero or do whatever else you want makes 
 this game extreme fun.
  
  The multiplayer option of this game is fantastic. The game engine architecture makes it easy for 
 those into scripting to do just about anything they want with it even produce strategy based maps 
 that are almost like a completely new game. During the 4 years Flashpoint has been around, a massive 
 stockpile of add-on maps and vehicles has grown making the new gaming possibilities truly remarkable. 
 
  
  By todays standards, the graphics are limited, although some developers have been busy and have 
 released add-ons that allow reflective water and other special effects. The same applies to the 
 sound. When this game is upgraded and had a few add-ons added, its still a good game in 2005 and 
 going strong.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazyralph023
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 1, 2005 11:25 pm PT
Review:  Operation Flashpoint: Cold War Crisis is another war time game that can be added to the list of 
 war time games out there. This game however, sticks out from that long list because this game is 
 just absolutely great. OFP may not be as popular as games such as the Battlefield series or Call 
 of Duty, but I feel it ranks up there with those games, especially because of its uniqueness and 
 authenticity.
  
  The gameplay of OFP is truly the highlight of the game. OFP gives a real life battlefield feeling 
 when you are playing the game. You're in a huge world, you don't know what to expect, and the sheer 
 visceral excitement from the feeling is amazing. The way you play the game is also great. The third 
 person perspective works amazingingly well, as it truly gives you a grand view of the huge world 
 that you are exploring. 
  
  The best thing about OFP which adds to its longetivity is the custom mission maker, which will 
 have you playing OFP possibly all day. The custom mission maker is immersive, and it will let you 
 make your own missions in placing your troops, your enemies, vehicles, and other objects in several 
 humongous maps -- most of which you play on in the single player game. You can also download add-ons, 
 maps, and a whole assortment of things from OFP fan sites from around the internet. Again, this 
 adds so much more flavor and text to the already awesome custom mission maker.
  
  The graphics of OFP are nothing to get all too excited about. While they are definately not the 
 best for its time, they are by far not the worst. You can adjust the graphics in the options menu, 
 but even at its highest level of quality, it's nothing to rejoice about. It works fine with how 
 it is, but it definately could of been better if a tad more detail had been put into some things.
 
  
  The sound in OFP is also not that bad, but not the best. The orchestraic music that plays in the 
 background during certain fights is not bad at all, but sounds just a tad bit blurry and fuzzy. 
 The Australian rock band Seventh also adds in a couple of there tracks, and its not bad, but its 
 nothing special, especially if you don't like heavy rock. 
  
  All in all, OFP is a great action war-time game, and it can be classified as superb alongside games 
 such as Battlefield and Call of Duty.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Astion
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 30, 2004 5:15 am PT
Review:  I know that playing a game 3 years after it's release might sway the results of a review, as I'm 
 sure it has a bit. But really, an 8.7??? I only agree with less than half of the opinions in the 
 GS review.
  
  The gameplay is tacky. This is my most picky subject when judging a game because if the gameplay 
 sucks, then the game won't be worth playing - graphics, sound, replayability, theme, and story 
 be damned.
  
  Unfortunately, gameplay in Operation Flashpoint is it's lowest point. I didn't beat it because 
 I just couldn't stand it anymore. I got through the first 4 levels without a single kill to my 
 name. It's all about fighting with a squad, but it didn't even feel like I was part of the team. 
 They were doing more than fine without me. Even when most of them were killed!
  
  I also had to keep my eyes on the ground constantly to follow a spazzy little waypoint that was 
 supposed to keep me in formation, I guess. I ended up ditching this idea after the first 4 levels 
 and just try to flow with my squad the best I could because there was no way to follow the point 
 at your feet and play the game at the same time.
  
  Flow. Flow flow flow. No flow. This game was completely without grace. It's literally like they 
 didn't even attempt to polish anything. The cutscenes were jerky and incredibly bland. The missions 
 lacked much direction besides go here and shoot him, then repeat endlessly. And what little story 
 there is was not grafted into the gameplay. You can ignore all the dialogue and get the same experience 
 from the game
  
  The voice acting is horrid, and the dialogue is worse. It was as if the characters weren't aware 
 of each other, like they were talking to themselves - and off of badly-written cue cards. It didn't 
 feel like I was in the military one bit. I felt more like I was watching a couple of Star Wars 
 fans trying to act in a fan film - which is ironic, considering that realism seems to be the foremost 
 ambition of the developers.
  
  It's difficulty depends on how you play. If you want to get into the firefight, good luck with 
 that. If you want to play under your squad leader's direction, it's way too easy. And if you follow 
 your little spazzy waypoint friend, then there's absolutely no consistency. I couldn't find a happy 
 medium.
  
  And the scripting bugs suck. Do *exactly* what you're supposed to (if you can understand your directions, 
 that is) or you'll find the game stopped, like the story ended right there in the middle of a mission. 
 Like the developers just decided this is where the game ends, and that's that. You'll have to start 
 the mission over.
  
  The game has got some good things going for it. The tactics used seem like they might be very realistic 
 - at least when the stupid AI follow them - and the whole idea is one helluva good one. If a good 
 developing team got their hands on the concept they could make it something unique and entertaining. 
 If you want a good squad-based game, try Ghost Recon. It's fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ccooke
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 30, 2004 1:48 pm PT
Review:  many tactical shooters dont have a story at all like rainbow six swat 3 has a story but a dumb 
 one delta force 2? nope but this game has what they have but with other stuff too you can drive 
 vehicals unlike in rainbow six but the graphics arent very good but the gameplay is way more important 
 than graphics!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
  
  multiplayer is always better than single player but the problem with this game is you can barely 
 get in a game its so buggy but why? because its run by gamespy!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
  
  and when you do if you do get into a game you cannot see your enemy their are millions of veterans 
 on and will kill you again and again and  
 think you get it.
  
  fans oftactical shootes will like the single player and maybe multiplay so if you like tactical 
 shhoters or just wanna get shot to death or see what war is like they should get this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chibi-acer
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jun 6, 2004 3:48 pm PT
Review:  I had some fun playing this game co-op, but the single player campaign seemed too scripted for 
 my tastes. Even in multiplayer, it's fairly noticeable that the enemy AI is somewhat lacking. Outside 
 of the scripted events that occur (which are fair) , the only real AI seems to be spot the player 
 and kill him.
  
  The graphics are a bit ugly, even for it's time. Textures are mostly low quality, and trees are 
 noticably two 2-dimensional cutouts crossed together. I think this is because the game tries to 
 simulate a massive game world, about the size of some MMORPGs. While this is cool in some respects, 
 it's really unnecessary to run such a large simulation at once, and if the graphics are the balance, 
 it's not worth the costs.
  
  At some levels, I think this game tries to be a Ghost Recon type game, but with vehicles. Maybe 
 the sequel will do better, but I feel this game falls a bit short. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: P1zzaman
Rating: 7.9
Date: Aug 15, 2003 9:47 pm PT
Review:  Operation Flashpoint is one of those games that you can play for hours upon hours. You may have 
 already read reviews about the vast enviornment, the whole slew of weapons, and the accurate recreation 
 of anxiety on the battlefield. Now those are what gives this game my high score. 
  
  However, I failed to come across anyone mentioning some of the following flaws. 
  
  The voice 
 overs are really annoying. Especially in the tanks. When you are a tank commander, you give orders, 
 and its put into the queue, yet they have to announce everything. So what you get is, you see an 
 enemy tank in front of you, and all you hear is "FORWARD, FORWARD, ENEMY T-72 12'O CLOCK... OH 
 NO 1 IS DOWN, 2 IS DOWN..." before you get to the FIRE command. 
  
  Also another graphical glitch that is so obvious is the reload animation. Sure when you are standing 
 it is not noticable, but when you are prone and reload... well there is NO reload animation. Your 
 hand moves towards the magazine, looking like you are casting a spell that magically refills the 
 bullets into your gun, you hear a click, and BAM! you have yourself a fully loaded gun. I wonder 
 if the developers notice this, or if its one of those things that is IMPOSSIBLE to fix, because 
 out of all their numerous patches and even expansion packs, this is one problem they have and probably 
 will never fix.
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
