-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Original War
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/originalwar/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jan 10, 2002
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5
Critic Score: 6.7, 20 Review (s)
User Score: 8.1, 131 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Virgin Interactive
Developer: Altar
Genre: Strategy
Date:     Dec 3, 2001
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
While real-time strategy games have generally advanced far beyond 1995, Original War has actually 
 regressed. 

 It would be easy to write a review of Original War -- one that used its tremendous misnomer of a title 
 as the launching point for an urbane,  New Yorker -esque critique of time travel and gorillas, 
 which unfortunately is too often what passes for game criticism these days. It would be much harder -- but 
 still easy -- to criticize the game's dated graphics, simplistic gameplay, incredibly bad voice acting, 
 and nonsensical plot. In fact, criticizing any given element of Original War seems gratuitous, 
 since taken separately, these elements are almost parodies of themselves. The game's plot is silly 
 and further undermined by its atrocious sound, the gameplay makes Red Alert 2 seem like a complex 
 strategy game, and the graphics can cause you to lead your units into a dead end that seems like 
 a gully but is actually a cliff. Despite these nominal problems, you can actually find yourself 
 getting caught up in the game. Not for long, mind you, but it can happen.            The graphics 
 in Original War are remarkably unoriginal.    

  From all appearances, Original War is very similar to Fallout Tactics, except for the fact that 
 it's really nothing like Fallout Tactics. While both games are played in real time, involve characters 
 whose skills increase with experience, and make you fight through linked episodes of a really bad 
 story as might be seen in comic books, Fallout Tactics plays at least nominally like a role-playing 
 game. Original War, on the other hand, is almost in all respects a real-time strategy game from 
 1995.   

  The game's plot involves going back in time and mining some kind of future miracle substance in 
 Siberia and then reburying it in Alaska so that the good guys control it when the time to discover 
 its magical properties happens. Since mining simulations haven't exactly had much of an impact 
 on gaming, a bunch of time-traveling Russians show up to make Original War a member of that much 
 better-received genre of games, the simulation of blowing things up.   

  In one of those twists that game developers used to shock gamers back in 1990, Original War actually 
 combines elements of several genres, to the extent that naming your units automatically makes something 
 a role-playing game. These units can gain experience in four classes -- soldier, mechanic, engineer, 
 and scientist -- and once they have been killed, they are lost forever. This leads to a lot of saving 
 and reloading, since units die very quickly.           The role-playing element includes awarding 
 experience points.    

  Characters actually possess levels in each of these specializations, and you can switch between 
 specializations at various times by entering a specific building that functions as a sort of changing 
 room. Apparently, Original War's designers figured that if they couldn't make something original, 
 they could at least make it incredibly cumbersome so that players feel like they're accomplishing 
 something: only mechanics can drive vehicles, only soldiers can fire weapons, only scientists can 
 heal, and only engineers can construct buildings and collect supplies. Thus, even if one of your 
 characters has a high skill in some area, if he hasn't been specifically designated as a certain 
 class, he cannot perform that class' functions. This leads to such contrivances as the need to 
 construct an armory at the end of each mission, in which you didn't otherwise need one, simply 
 to change all your characters into soldiers so that they can actually fight.   

  Original War's graphics and sound aren't just bad, but they're also confusing. The game's voice 
 acting is bad in two ways: first, it's just plain bad, and second, many of the unit acknowledgements 
 don't actually match the voices that particular character uses in dialogue. Furthermore, the cartoon 
 heads that appear when a character speaks compare unfavorably, from an aesthetic standpoint, to 
 portraits in role-playing games circa 1993. The rest of the game's graphics have the hand-painted 
 look of Baldur's Gate, which not only places them squarely in 1998 but also makes them very confusing 
 to navigate. While the game supposedly takes place in the Pliocene Epoch, it doesn't feel much 
 different from any other computer game setting, except for the occasional saber-toothed tiger or 
 apeman.    

 The single-player game can be started as either the Americans or the Russians, but the full campaign 
 (and story) consists of playing through the American missions and then the Russian ones. While 
 the story is mostly linear, there are branching points where you can make decisions that determine 
 the progress of the plot. Unfortunately, these decisions are mixed in with ones that simply lead 
 you to have to restart the mission, because they are dead ends. There is actually a third side 
 (the Arabs) that enters the plot, but the action takes place mainly between the Russians and Americans. 
           Decisions you make in the game affect the plot to some extent.    

  Original War's actual gameplay greatly resembles a fidgety version of Command &amp; Conquer. While 
 real-time strategy games have generally advanced far beyond 1995, Original War has actually regressed. 
 Units are hard to control and tend to wander around even when they have no orders (which often 
 leads them to get killed by the enemy you were specifically trying to stay away from) . There is 
 a "stand ground" order, but it is canceled as soon as you move the unit. The game's pathfinding 
 and general unit AI are awful -- they destroy any kind of atmosphere the game tries to create with 
 details like realistic vehicle movements. Sometimes a vehicle will even expose itself to enemy 
 fire because it has to drive in reverse to get around an obstacle you left it parked against. Aside 
 from the role-playing elements and the fact that you cannot replace human soldiers, the production 
 and research aspects of the game are straightforward and similar to those in most other real-time 
 strategy games. If you have the right tech, you can build a vehicle, and its armament and power 
 plant are further functions of your technology. While Original War is ostensibly a tactical combat 
 game, the tactical options are in fact laughably limited. For instance, only soldiers can crawl, 
 and standing and crawling are the only two positions in the game.   

  The other thing that leads to a lot of saving and reloading is the fact that Original War is essentially 
 a puzzle game: There are certain "best" ways to finish a scenario, and that's that. Each mission 
 has multiple objectives, although you aren't given all of them right away, and you occasionally 
 make choices as to which objectives you will fulfill. The missions are heavily scripted as a result, 
 since there are a lot of sequential actions that advance the plot. This "connect the dots" approach 
 manages to keep the missions moving, since if the gameplay were left to carry them along, Original 
 War would be nothing more than a weak RTS with named characters and abilities and no innovation 
 whatsoever. The most attractive part of the game, in fact, is the cutscenes, which are nicely done 
 (visually, anyway) for both the American and Russian campaigns.           Some of the most interesting 
 things about the game are the cutscenes.    

  Despite the fact that this review now practically reads as an encyclopedia of why you shouldn't 
 buy a game like this, Original War does have some appeal, albeit mostly for veteran gamers. This 
 is because every lame trick they've learned while playing real-time strategy games as the genre 
 has evolved comes into play here -- standing units just out of visual range of an enemy turret until 
 you get a force together to rush it, concentrating all your firepower on one enemy at a time while 
 your scientist heals your soldiers (and while you hit the pause key every half second) , or timing 
 the AI patterns so that you can sneak your units past a strongpoint. It's all there. Since the 
 simple gameplay should make the learning curve nonexistent for experienced players, playing through 
 Original War is like redefeating all those games you've beaten over the past 10 years.   

  Original War is a game that you will have no desire whatsoever to play in your free time, but as 
 soon as you have something important to do, it will become the most interesting thing imaginable. 
 This is due almost solely to the game's pacing, which gives you new things to do at almost the 
 exact point when you're ready to give up on how pointless and frustrating it is. While it gets 
 tripped up (and eventually falls flat on its face) before getting very far due to its numerous 
 crippling problems, it actually turns out to be somewhat better than you might have thought it 
 would be. That last sentence, and the fact that the game is budget-priced, are the two best things 
 that can be said about it.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (5 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: nightboy42
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 17, 2007 3:06 pm PT
Review:  This game is so very underrated. Even though it came in 2001 the game wasnt that pretty in that 
 time and age. Graphic was still quite rough. Tibrian Sun that came somewhat in the same time does 
 not have that good graphic.
  
  NONE and i say again NONE RTS up till now has the same RPG element as this game has (the same gamecompany 
 has made UFO WICH has a somewhat alike system though i dont grade that game as a RTS) . In this 
 game EVERYTHING counts. If you are on a hill that gives you attack/defense bonus and such. You 
 cant produce men and the viechels are mandriven. This isnt a bad thing BUT you can say goodbye 
 to a 200 tank battle UNLESS you have then Controlled by radio ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lyten
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 10, 2007 12:10 am PT
Review:  i personally enjoyed the demo. While the graphics reminded me of starcraft days of yore, it doesn't 
 exceed in anyways like say Doom. Although the graphics weren't the high points, the story of the 
 original war was interesting, and the game was fun in it's corky manner. Original war played like 
 1990s game, but it's intersting characters and gameplay makes me wanted to play more. Personally 
 i would recommend people to try the demo before making any jugdement calls. Like it said in the 
 review the game was low budget game and you could find it in a bargin bin. I hope i can find it 
 to give a proper review of this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sponny1
Rating: 5.6
Date: Feb 23, 2006 4:06 am PT
Review:  Original war was terrible the graphics are okay but the gameplay isnt i mean its all wrong why 
 cant they build more units i mean they should know they cant win a battle with only the same units 
 oh sure they can change their battle mission from engineer to soldier but the soldiers are to little 
 they would mostly send in 6-7 and the enemy has more now im stuck and because of the lacking gameplay 
 i uninstall it and sold it away.
  
  but the game is a least a litle good but u could still buy because of the okay, okay graphics well 
 you can so its okay to buy the game the gameplay stinks but lighten up look on the bright side 
 at least the graphics are good 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Qwerty03
Rating: 5.4
Date: Feb 19, 2006 10:50 am PT
Review:  Original war is not really original in the way you control units or even build things, really the 
 only thing original is the way the cut scenes are played out, they are drawn by the main character, 
 John Macmillan.
  The game does unfortunately get quite annoying as "idle" units continually complain about being 
 bored and this really does get quite frustrating as when you are thinking of a battle plan hearing 
 the words, "Ever hear about the one who died of boredom?" really makes you want to send the unit 
 walking into an enemy base to get ventilated.
  However, the character design is very well thought out and you get a feeling for the soldiers in 
 your command, and you will feel some urge to load it if your most loved character dies. The opposing 
 forces in this game are, well, quite basic, Americans, Russians and Arabs, each with different technology 
 and vehicles to boot.
  Altogether Original war does not stand out and you may want to think about renting this first rather 
 than buying it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sputnik824
Rating: 5
Date: Jun 26, 2005 11:14 am PT
Review:  Story:
  An American geological expedition, under a UN mandate, assesses the natural resources in a distant 
 part of Siberia, deep in the trackless steppes of Eastern Russia. But instead of oil, they discover 
 a deposit of a hitherto unknown mineral.
  
  American scientists working for Department of Defense find out that this mineral is in fact identical 
 to the substance used to power an extraterrestrial artefact in their possession. This object is 
 called the EON (Extraterrestrial Object Nexus) .
  
  It was found in 1919 by Colonel Emerson near the site of the Tunguska explosion. Emerson was the 
 commander of a US military unit in charge of transporting US war supplies from the city of Vladivostok 
 to the Eastern front during World War I.
  
  DoD Experiments have shown that items placed in the capsule are transported hundreds of thousands 
 of years back in time. The American scientists were not able to understand its construction, nor 
 could they manage to synthesise its fuel. Eventually, the machine - classified Top Secret - was 
 stored, pending further advances in human science.
  
  The experiments carried out with the new mineral, called siberite, discovered that in addition 
 to its being the fuel for the EON, that it catalysed cold fusion.
  
  As the Russian Federation itself was in a state of turmoil (which the original expedition was there 
 trying to ease in the first place) , there could be no guarantee that the leaders in Moscow would 
 not use siberite to enslave other European nations, as well as their own scattered state once again.
 
  
  The Americans therefore decided to act quickly. Using the EON, they began to send special units 
 into the past to mine all of the siberite and transport it to the nearest territory under their 
 control - to Alaska. However, the Russians learn about this plan, and they are not the only ones 
 who don't like it. 
  
  Neither the brave and sympathetic John Macmillan, nor the proud and patriotic Yuri Ivanovich "Burlak" 
 Gorky know what they are about to face on this adventure. Shall they follow their orders to the 
 bitter end, or shall they try to find an escape from the vicious circle of destruction?
  
  Pros:
  Good storyline
  Multiple endings
  Very challenging
  Able to tame apes as soldiers, 
 engineers and suicide bombers
  You can design and build your own veichles
  Lots of swearing
  Unique missions for Russia and America
  Good blend of strategy and role-playing
 
  
  Cons:
  Crap graphics
  Rubbish voice-acting
  Seems rushed in places
  
  Botton Line:
  The best blend of strategy and role-playing out there easily... sound good? Go 
 get then.
  
  --
  
  Josh Pollard 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
