-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Outcast
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/adventure/outcast/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Aug 23, 1999
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.6
Critic Score: 8.1, 30 Review (s)
User Score: 9.0, 427 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Atari
Developer: Appeal
Genre: Adventure
Date:     Jul 31, 1999 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The story helps make even its silliest puzzle seem relevant and the game comprises an enormous world 
 populated with interesting characters. 

 Outcast is an action-adventure from Infogrames that doesn't seem particularly original. Like many 
 games that lay claim to that hybrid categorization, it presents you with a series of standard puzzles 
 intermingled with some straightforward combat. But just as it seems to owe a big debt to the Tomb 
 Raider series and other games in that vein, Outcast also comes across as unique. Perhaps it's that 
 the story helps make even its silliest puzzle seem relevant or that the game comprises an enormous 
 world populated with interesting characters. Whatever the case, although Outcast may not do anything 
 new, it does what it does extremely well.  

 You play as stereotypical wisecracking action hero Cutter Slade, who has been commanded to lead 
 a group of scientists on a rescue mission to a parallel world. Slade's mission goes awry, and he 
 ends up alone and practically defenseless. The natives offer to help him, but only if he agrees 
 to save their world from the tyranny of Fae Rhan. Apparently the natives think Slade is the savior 
 prophesied by their previous leader.  

 The story actually gets more interesting than that, which is good considering that "native people 
 think average guy is a God" seems like some '50s B-movie cliche. To accomplish his task, Slade 
 must collect five sacred objects from the various regions of the world. It's no easy task: The 
 world is huge, as is Fae Rhan's army that guards every important area. To succeed, Slade has to 
 gain the trust of the Talan natives, solve any number of their problems, and find ways to weaken 
 Fae Rhan's army.  

 There's a great deal of exploration to be done. Luckily, it's an enjoyable endeavor. The six regions 
 of Adelpha are all diverse, and better yet, the inhabitants are quite an interesting group. The 
 majority have distinct personalities, which is impressive considering the huge number of Talan 
 you'll encounter during your journeys. Nevertheless, it's hard to acclimate yourself to the environment 
 at first: From the moment you awake on Adelpha, you'll be hit with a barrage of alien terminology, 
 and trying to keep up can be intimidating. Fortunately, the game keeps extensive notes for you, 
 which are helpful when you can't remember whether it's Zele or Zade that has the Booyat for Oru. 

 Your travels would be slightly more enjoyable were the terrain a bit better looking. Outcast uses 
 a voxel-based engine, and voxel apologists will often cite that technology's strength as the ability 
 to render at a greater distance than a polygon-based engine. Although this strength is occasionally 
 expressed in Outcast's expansive environments, you'll also find that there are plenty of times 
 when mountains and large buildings will pop up out of nowhere. There is one noticeable advantage 
 to the engine, though: It allows for huge areas and their accompanying populations to be loaded 
 very quickly. And any minor annoyances that arise from the game's graphic quality will be assuaged 
 by Outcast's distinctive visual design.  

 Outcast sounds better than it looks. Every character speaks, most of the voice acting is good, and 
 some of the voice acting is great. The voice of Slade himself is especially notable, even if much 
 of his dialogue is silly. The game's dynamic soundtrack is excellent, and the triumphant battle 
 music adds a great deal of tension to hostile situations.  

 And there are many such situations. While Outcast is an almost even split of action and adventure, 
 it's the action portions that distinguish the game. You control Slade with the arrow keys, and 
 you control the camera view with the mouse (you can play from a first- or third-person view) . This 
 atypical control scheme takes some getting used to, but it works well in firefights, letting you 
 move freely without losing sight of your targets. Fights are made more fun by the fact that the 
 artificial intelligence of your opponents is quite good. They'll run for cover, and they'll try 
 to sneak up behind you. Sometimes it's easy to see the AI routines at work, and occasionally the 
 enemies will just stand there while you take potshots, but your foes behave realistically overall, 
 demanding a cautious approach to combat.  

 While the action sequences may be special, the adventure game elements aren't. The puzzles are pretty 
 typical, involving pattern recognition, carting objects around to various characters, and so on. 
 Luckily, the developers did such a great job creating the world that even the most mundane puzzles 
 seem to make some sense in the larger scheme of things, and acting as the Talan's errand boy feels 
 plausible. The nonlinear nature of the game is excellent - you can pretty much go anywhere at any 
 point, provided you can get past the guards - and there are plenty of optional subquests you may 
 not even encounter unless you talk to everyone several times.   

 Then again, at times this effort to create a whole new world is a bit much. The designers attempt 
 to explain everything, from your unlimited carrying capacity (your backpack employs nanotechnology) 
 to the ability to save your game (you are given a sacred crystal, called the "gaamsaav," that "imprints 
 your state") . The latter example is particularly bad, as "readying" the gaamsaav takes a few moments, 
 during which you can be surrounded or shot. It's easy enough to stop the process, but it would 
 be nice to just save from a menu in tough situations, especially because you restore the game in 
 the traditional sense anyway.  

 Outcast's problems don't end there. Characters will occasionally enter an endless animation loop 
 while you're speaking to them, forcing you to restart from an earlier point. And saving is such 
 an ordeal that you'll more than likely find your saved games few and far between. In combat, the 
 third-person camera often zooms in and out drastically and without warning, which can be extremely 
 disorienting. And one of the game's greatest strengths, its nonlinearity, can also be problematic, 
 if not because you'll find it extremely difficult to track down your missing equipment, then because 
 you can sometimes trigger linear plot points out of chronological order.  

 But while it can be frustrating at times, Outcast is mostly just fun. It belongs to that older breed 
 of action-adventure hybrids; while it plays more like Tomb Raider, its spirit is more in line with 
 Adeline's Twinsen games. Ultimately it presents you with a huge world to explore and an interesting 
 history to learn, and doing so is an incredibly enjoyable experience.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (12 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: LordScythe
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 18, 2009 5:51 pm PT
Review:  A sci fi RPG of epic proportions. One of the most immersive worlds in a game. The atmosphere would 
 totally suck you in. The music was beautiful and fittingly epic. The different cities were very 
 distinct in setting and their inhabitants made them feel like living breathing alien worlds. The 
 story was simply put fantastic. It felt like watching a big Holywood sci fi blockbuster as much 
 as playing a game. The whole voxel based rendering wouldn't nessecarily look better than the competitor 
 polygon engines of the time but one thing it would definitely achieve was to give the game it's 
 own distinct look and feel and make the world look that tiny bit more alien. Which was ideal for 
 a sci fi game like that. Another two things that stood out were the weapons which were very cool 
 and different and the mounts (the weird camel like creatures) . Really wish Appeal could make a 
 second one. It's one of those games that you can't help but wonder how it would play, feel and 
 look like with today's technology. Probably amazing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Foolz3h
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 18, 2008 9:10 pm PT
Review:  
  The US government sends a probe into an alien parallel universe, but naturally things go wrong. 
 An alien damages the probe resulting in the impending destruction of the universe if the probe 
 can not be recovered. Step in Cutter Slade, a wise-cracking hard arse former navy SEAL who you 
 have the honour of playing. Slade is ordered to escort three scientists into the parallel universe, 
 but once again things don't go so well as Slade is separated from the scientists-losing most of 
 his equipment in the process-and so an epic adventure of seemingly simple tasks that never quite 
 go to plan begins. 
  Slade wakes up in a small village draped in beautiful white snow. He makes first contact with the 
 aliens, and much to his dismay they tell him he is the Ulukai who is the prophesised being who 
 will save the world from Fae Rhan, the evil dictator that rules Adelpha. What did I tell you about 
 things not going to plan? 
  One of the first things you'll notice about Outcast is the interface and presentation. At a time 
 when widescreen monitors were not readily available, Outcast is played at the highest resolution 
 of 512x384, this means that you're playing in widescreen! Across the bottom of the screen there 
 is a black bar, and while this cuts down on your vision, it adds to the cinematic feel of the game. 
 While there is a HUD, many steps are taken to keep you immerse in the beautiful world of Adelpha. 
 To bring up the map you hit tab, and when you do Slade has a pair of futuristic goggles descend 
 over his eyes, and the map comes up. To further immerse you in the world, early on you are given 
 the Gamsaav, a mystical item, that when squeezed, saves your life essence (in other words it saves 
 the game) . However, as you squeeze it, it glows and makes a noise, so if you try and save near 
 an enemy they will investigate. It's the small details like this that were ahead of its time, you 
 see games like Dead Space praised for integrating the HUD into the back of the protagonists suit, 
 but Outcast had already been there and done that almost ten years earlier!
  Upon completing a few tasks around Ranzaar (the snowy starting area) , you're told that the Ulukai 
 must collect five Mons before he can stop Fae Rhan. When you leave Ranzaar, you come across another 
 very progressive feature. Outcast is completely non-linear! The Mons can be recovered in any order! 
 While the quests themselves are quite linear (though a few do give you a choice or two here and 
 there) , you can play them in any order you like. I know games like the Elder Scrolls were around 
 before Outcast, but I'm having trouble thinking of an action adventure as old as Outcast that is 
 as non-linear. 
  But this is where we discover that Outcast has aged a little less than gracefully in certain areas. 
 Shamazaar is a lush land of green riss (the most popular food in Adelpha) fields populated by Gandha 
 talan (the working class) , Fae talan (soldiers) , and Twon-Ha (bird-like creatures that you can 
 ride) . When you mount a Twon-Ha you'll find you can't move, and when you walk through riss you'll 
 find you move incredibly slowly. Problems like these are to be expected with old games, and can 
 actually be fixed with CPU-Grabber, but it's annoying nonetheless. However, I suffered a far worse 
 problem when I was about half way through, when the game suffered multiple fatal crashes, but thankfully 
 this was fixed with a third party mod. The last problem-and perhaps the biggest-is not fixable 
 by anything but a time machine and a memory wipe. 
  You see certain aspects of Oucast's gameplay has not aged particularly well. Most side-quests consist 
 of going between quest vendor and quest vendor (A fact that Slade himself makes light of!) , and 
 while the dialogue and voice acting has high production values, and is deliciously cheesy, it's 
 not exactly engaging. Especially when a seemingly simple task turns into a long trek across Adelpha. 
 Ten years ago, exploring the world itself as you did the quest was probably engaging enough, and 
 while the graphics have aged remarkably well (thanks to the unique smooth look of the voxel engine) , 
 it's just not as big of an attraction as it would have been ten years ago. 
  As well as the dialogue and story, the combat itself has aged very well. While it's an action adventure, 
 you move with WSAD, and aim and shoot with the mouse. You can even go into first person mode for 
 better aiming. Apart from your human pistol, you will get a multitude of alien weapons-from mortars 
 to sniper rifles-and you'll need them, you see there isn't exactly a lack of Fae Talan around 
 though there will be by the time you're finished! I believe at one point near the end I was fighting 
 20+ Fae Talan, which is quite an impressive achievement for a game so old. 
  While there are a lot of enemies, there can be large gaps between them. So when you're not fighting, 
 it simply feels like you're walking around talking to people which is pretty much the case. To 
 make matters worse, you can weaken soldiers, and lower their numbers by doing resource quests. 
 These generally involve convincing the leaders of the different regions of Adelpha to stop giving 
 supplies to Fae Rhan. In the desert region of Motazaar this would mean they would stop mining metal 
 for the soldiers' weapons, which would make the soldiers' weapons weaker, in the marshy region 
 of Okasankaar this would mean they would stop supplying the soldiers with Sankaar (fish) which 
 would make them physically weaker and therefore easier to kill. There are four resource quests 
 in total, and by the time you're finished you will kill the soldiers in two or three shots, and 
 they will do very little damage, making the game incredibly easy. 
  There is however, are several aspects of Outcast that time will never diminish: the story, the 
 well realised and in-depth world, the dialogue and voice acting, but most of all, the delicious 
 sci-fi sense of humour and references. For a start the different nations of Adelpha are accessed 
 through Daokas, that look almost identical to Stargates from Stargate, and in the city of Motazaar 
 there are buskers playing music from Star Wars. If you have a long attention span you should definitely 
 give Outcast a try, it might be slow at times, but listening to the Star Wars theme as Slade is 
 sent on yet another seemingly simple task that turns into something much harder will ease the pain.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ice-Nova
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 15, 2007 9:54 am PT
Review:  I was browsing trough my old games, indulging in nostalgia when I stumbled upon Outcast, I had 
 not managed to beat the game when I first got it but I had fond memories of it so I figured it 
 was time to see how deep this game really was. Outcast was a bit of an impulse buy, I confess that 
 back in 1999 I was not exactly connected to the world of video gaming and what money I had to spare 
 was quickly burnt in whatever caught my attention while I was holding money. As it turns out I 
 got the better end of that bargain.
  
  The best way to describe Outcast's story is to compare it to quicksand. At first glance it looks 
 like regular sand then you step on it and it sucks you right in. You are Cutter Slade, ex Navy 
 SEAL tough guy with nightmares and a drinking problem. One night while relaxing at the local bar 
 you are contacted by Admiral Dawson to lead a group of scientists on a secret mission. As it turns 
 out the government had been secretly funding the development of dimensional travel, the program 
 was successful but the probe they sent was damaged and has created a terrible vortex that is sucking 
 our reality in and will eventually destroy the universe. Your job is to travel to this parallel 
 dimension and repair the probe so that you can send it back and stop the end of the world from 
 happening. Sounds simple enough eh? Well as it turns out things don't exactly go as planned. You 
 wake up in a hut on a snowy region just to find yourself surrounded by strange creatures, their 
 leader refers to you as Ulukai , apparently there is a prophecy in this world that predicted the 
 coming of a higher being (yup, that's you) that would unite the five mons and end the reign of 
 terror of Fae Rhan, the ruler of Adelpha home to the Talan. Have I already lost you with all the 
 names? Well this is only a fraction of what can be found in this game.
  
  The game's originality is astounding, aliens are a very common feature in a game but rarely do 
 we see such dept, hierarchies, religion and even politics come into play between the Talan. The 
 world itself is huge and the six regions you get to visit are both interesting and unique. From 
 the start you'll have access to all six regions so exploration is always an opportunity but the 
 heart of the game lies with it's story, every step towards it's completion adds another variable 
 to the equation, whenever a question is answered ten other questions rise from the ashes, it's 
 so good that you will find yourself remembering the bizarre and complex names of this parallel 
 dimension by heart but, never fear, should you forget what you were supposed to be doing the game 
 keeps a very extensive record of all the opened quests, which you'll come to depend on because 
 the names these talan have can be especially difficult to remember. All of the NPCs are voiced, 
 you will find that all generic NPCs say the same things but you'll use them to find the ones related 
 to quests and I can also say that it is hard to find a generic NPC that has the same voice actor 
 as another one. The game does a very good job of masking it's repetitions from you, of course, 
 you can still notice them but only if you go looking.
  
  The graphics are fantastic, keep in mind this game was released in 1999. Because of the voxel engine 
 the game has no problem rendering curved objects but it has a bit of a problem rendering textures, 
 it does look a bit blurry or pixelated but that will be the least of your concerns, the world is 
 so rich that you will find yourself almost drowning into all the things that you can find around. 
 The sound is good for the most part but the weapons could have been a little better, of course 
 that is not a problem because when you do hear your weapons it means you're shooting and therefore 
 have other matters to attend to. The action in the game is fast paced, usually you'll fight soldiers 
 of Fae Rhan and they will always outnumber you. Thankfully you are given a moderate arsenal to 
 defend yourself. It goes from pistols to rocket launchers and, my personal favourite, a mine launcher. 
 Careful where you shoot though as hitting innocent talan will hurt your reputation amongst them, 
 if you push them too far they will eventually deny you side quests and even deny directions to 
 other talan which is catastrophic in such a big world as Adelpha. There are also plenty of raw 
 materials to be found, you cannot use these yourself but you can take them to a specialized talan 
 and he will craft ammunition from them. It all just ties in so perfectly it is very hard not to 
 be drawn to it. There is always something else you could be doing and the wonderful job the developers 
 did with the NPCs keeps even the most basic of tasks interesting. There is some mild puzzle solving 
 in the game but they are few and usually pretty basic, you can also just get the answer to some 
 puzzles by asking someone about them. The puzzles just serve as a break in the pacing though as 
 most things can be solved by shooting.
  
  The only thing I can criticize in this game is probably not the developer's fault. There is so 
 much content in this game so much diversity that some of these things have not been developed to 
 their fullest. Some times a quest will end abruptly and a few minor technical glitches suggest 
 that if this game had been given a proper budget and time it would have become the greatest action-adventure 
 game ever. That is not saying that the game is mediocre, it's a fantastic game, but when you reach 
 the end of the road you are left wanting more. Unfortunately there is nothing else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hurendo_kun
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 12, 2007 12:36 pm PT
Review:  Masterpiece is the only word that can possibly describe Outcast. I like to start my reviews with 
 a little history, so here we go. Outcast was Appeal's first and only game. Due to poor marketing, 
 they sold enough copies to break even, but this didn't discourage them from starting work on a 
 sequel. As you've probably read, Appeal went under due to poor management, and the sequel never 
 saw the light of day. As evidence of Outcast's venerability, there's an unofficial sequel under 
 development using the CrystalSpace engine.
  
  Because I have no idea how to review a game that is, in my opinion, the best reason to own a personal 
 computer, I'll isolate each review category and emphasize the game's strong suits.
  
  Gameplay: Outcast combines elements of roleplaying, adventure, action, and puzzle games into a 
 coherent, working, stable product. The entire game world is open to you right from the start, as 
 are all the tactics you can use to pursue your ultimate agenda, which is to find the pieces of 
 your satellite and return to earth, saving the world of Adelpha from the treacherous rule of Fae 
 Rhan in the process. Viable tactics include stealth, assault, and subterfuge. However you like 
 to play games, Outcast will likely accommodate your taste.
  
  Graphics: When you look at it now, Outcast seems like a joke compared to modern games, what with 
 its software voxel engine, but if you take a peek under the hood and compare it to other games 
 of the time, Outcast is in fact a technological masterpiece. This isn't your ordinary voxel engine, 
 but one that handles not only 360-degree rotation but also vertical inclination of the camera, 
 which was virtually unheard of at the time. Model rendering was embedded alongside the voxel renderer, 
 so you have the best of both worlds. The renderer supports bump-mapping and post-render effects, 
 such as depth-of-field, lens flare, and environmental reflective water (complete with surface effect 
 ripples) . In short, this renderer did then what hardware could only begin to do just a couple years 
 ago.
  
  Sound: I can't say the audio is truly spectacular  the crunching foot steps get on my nerves after 
 a while, to be honest  but it does the job. What's really impressive is the soundtrack, composed 
 by Lennie Moore and performed by the Moscow Symphony Orchestra and Chorus. I don't know how Appeal 
 managed to fit that into their budget, but it's an appropriate soundtrack for an amazing production. 
 My personal favorites are the opening theme, Shamazaar, and Talinzaar (tracks 12, 13, and 15 respectively) .
 
  
  Value: I already told you this is my candidate for the best computer game ever made. What more 
 needs to be said for its value? The game world is huge, the story intriguing (if you like theoretical 
 physics and parallel realities) , tons of equipment, and the game an absolute blast front to back. 
 Obviously my opinion is my own, but when anyone asks me if there's a game I think they should play, 
 my answer is invariably, Outcast. 
  
  Tilt: Ten points on all accounts. I don't have any complaints about this game, though I do have 
 a few items on my fantasy wishlist. In order, they go: multiplayer support, voice recognition, 
 longer story. Um, different outfits, maybe? All of these are far-fetched and, under the circumstances, 
 superfluous.
  
  Did anyone else notice they bump-mapped Wolf's nipples? Very clever. One extra point for that. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HAL5000
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 26, 2007 11:04 am PT
Review:  I have played many games over the years. But there has been one game that I compare every other 
 game to that I have played, and it is Outcast. The story line was intriguing and the adventure 
 phenomenal. It never became boring but always had you on the edge of your seat. At times the puzzles 
 became a pain in the, well you know where but overall it was the game that kept you coming back 
 until you saw the ending credits. Once it was completed you walked away empty because you said, 
 is that all there is, especially after spending over 30 hours glued to your monitor. I have played 
 it 2 times after I finished it over the years and always wished that Outcast II The Lost Paradise 
 was completed. It never was. Appeal went under and the game was canceled. I have over time emailed 
 Atari to pick up where Appeal left off, to no avail. Sad but true. I only wish that many more people 
 would feel the same way and email Atari to finish this game. With todays physics in games, could 
 you imagine what Outcast II could offer? This game is a classic and has never been beaten by any 
 other game in my opinion to date. We all have our favorites but isnt it great that one game stands 
 alone. Outcast has been the only game as I see it as being the best game of the decade. Dont misunderstand 
 what I am saying; there have been other games that were awesome but nothing that still keeps reviews 
 alive like this one. Here is hoping for Outcast II The Lost Paradise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: net_mugger
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 23, 2006 2:55 pm PT
Review:  Huh... in a flash I just remembered about this game. I don't know why... Well this game is defenetly 
 one of dose you play in your childhood and can't forget. It is also the firs RPG I played... that 
 is some time ago.
  
  Begining with graphic I would say that it's one of the worst I have ever seen. I can't name a game 
 with a worse graphic in this moment. Of course graphic matters a lot but dosen't decides the games' 
 quality. This is a good game not thanks to graphic. When or if you played it you will see that 
 once caught in the action grapichs won't matter at all.
  
  The Gameplay in this game is highly elevated because of the many things you can do like riding 
 on twon-ha, crawling, see with the EVD, swim. Yeah they don't look much but take a 99' year RPG 
 and show me a better gameplay! The thing here is that you must find 5mons to get yourself out of 
 that place you wake up and ask where you are:) They tell you about a place Adelpha wich dosen't 
 exists on the map, even on the solar system map. And so on a lot of adventures and hard time thinking 
 and searching.
  
  I don't apreciate the sound this game presents. Well the music is okay and the talking with different 
 voices, but naaaah that stupid sound that is heared when you jump and crawl on something I hat 
 that one it's simply annoying...
  
  This game deserves to be played if you like this type. And if you do you won't be able to play 
 something else until you end this one! It's a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Black_Fist
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 15, 2006 12:03 pm PT
Review:  Many people have never even heard of this fantastic game which is a pity because it is one of the 
 greatest action adventure games ever made. The moment the opening credits roll you are presented 
 with a picture of the great beauty that this game can display. The camra swoops over a snow covered 
 landsacape that makes many terrains in modern games look flat and dull. The nearly frozen water 
 reflects the cold sun shining down on it and a light snow falls from the frosty sky. The only clue 
 that this is a 1999 game comes from the low resolution and the blocky textures. The dialogue is 
 fantastic and the sounds are crisp and expressive. The gameplay stays fresh and interesting throughout 
 the 40 plus hours it will take you to finish. The combat is intense and the enemy AI surprisingly 
 intellegent. The story can be very hokey at times but it pulls through in the end and some of the 
 conversations you will have throughout the game will have you roaring with laughter. All in all 
 this game is a must try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheDutch
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 4, 2006 9:29 am PT
Review:  I bought this game a long time ago. And you just keep playing with it. The first world you are 
 abele to save from Fae Rhan is Shamazar. After that world you can chose to where you are going 
 to. There is no line what you have to follow. Also when you are busy saving Shamazar you can also 
 visit the other areas. But of corse if you manage to get the soldiers from Fae Rhan away from the 
 gate. 
  
  You can do so much, killing soldiers, helping citizens, find stuf so that a recreator can make 
 wapens and fuel for you. And if you are bored for a moment in one area you just move to another. 
 There are no consequenties for that. The only thing you need to do is saving the world, find a 
 probe and keep the citizens frended with you. 
  
  It's a game you keep playing with becose there are so many missions and the game itself sure looks 
 great. The fact that the missions are all so diffrent makes it also more fun. Becose no missions 
 are the same. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mand_450
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 20, 2006 5:04 am PT
Review:  Story 10/10. Even though the story isent original, it has a deep plot, and as gamespot says, "The 
 story makes even the sillyest puzzles make sence" or what so ever, it is true. You have a leksikon, 
 where you can read about the things to see on adelpha. There are many characters such as Kroax, 
 Fae rahn, different shamaz and many other. There is much more to say, but i'll better end here.
 
  
  Gameplay 9/10. The gameplay is simply just superb. The gunfighting is funny, especially cause the 
 enemy has great AI. The dont just stand still and shoot, but they can avoid many shoots you fire 
 at them, they seek cover, sneak up behind you without you notice them, and so on. The puzzles can 
 also be funny sometimes, especially in mootazar, where the is a huge valley, where you have to 
 pass several trials, and the exploring can also be funny. Unfortunatly some missions can be a bit 
 confusing, and running forth and back, can sometimes get dull.
  
  Graphics 9/10. The graphics might not look like much today, but for its time, i think it looks 
 great. Many different talan models, and huge terrain, makes the world feel living. Else not much 
 more to say.
  
  Sound 10/10. The sound is also fantastic. Instead of always hearing rock music, you hear symphony 
 music, and even though it sounds silly, it dosent, and it gives a great feeling when fighting or 
 exploring. Voice acting is also great, and sometimes funny, but sometimes it can be a bit hard 
 to hear what persons say, because sometimes the music gets to loud, or sometimes they talk quite 
 low.
  
  Value 9/10. The main missions is lengthy, plus alot of side missions, which only can be a good 
 thing. Its worth trying again, so that you can catch up with more of the history you missed, some 
 forgotten side missions, or just for the fun of it.
  
  Tilt 10/10. Even though this game is old, its still worth playing, i mean there are still many 
 people who play starcraft, so whats wrong with trying this game? The epic story and the big world 
 makes the experience even better, and the funny tactical gunplay is just funny. I highly recommend 
 this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fatboyvinnie
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 18, 2006 3:52 pm PT
Review:  Story-You are a man named Cutter Slade sent to a world called Adelpha to find a probe and 5 mon 
 so he can save their planet and Earth at the same time from the power of a man called Fae Rahn
 
  
  Graphics: Pros-Environments are varied and look stunning, weapons look very cool, other objects throughout 
 Adelpha look very unique
  Cons-The engine that Outcast uses makes the models look very pixelated
  
  Sound: Pros-Music 
 is amazing, great weapon sounds, very solid and funny voice acting
  Cons-None
  
  Game play: Pros-Gun play is tense and the AI is surprisingly very smart (think Half-Life 2 smart) , exploring 
 the world and interacting with the characters is great fun too, puzzles are well done
  Cons-The puzzles can sometimes be a bit too difficult to solve, getting trapped in places around 
 the world while in combat gets very frustrating (a hill in Shamazaar for example)
  
  Replay Value-The main quest should take players anywhere from 10-20 hours depending on how well 
 you can think out the puzzles, there are also several side quests on each of the lands which adds 
 another 5-10 hours of game play
  
  Overall: Its a great original adventure game that is very under-rated IMO and a solid shooter as 
 well (shame Outcast 2 got cancelled) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Humorguy_basic
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 19, 2006 1:46 pm PT
Review:  This is a wide open, do any thing any time sci fi game that is up there with the best Fantasy/AD&D 
 RPG's like Morrowind, Daggerfall and Gothic. It has great graphics, great voice-overs, great music 
 (by the Moscow Symphonic) , great characters, great quests, great AI and great story. What else 
 do you want?!
  
  It uses voxels so doesn't use your graphics card, this means it needs a powerful CPU (1ghz+) and 
 lots of RAM (512mb+) . Something that we have today but didn't 6 years ago when this game came out. 
 This means if you find it today and buy it you will be playing it the way it should have been played 
 back then! And lucky you!
  
  After a great 20 minute (it seems!) intro you find out an experiment has gone wrong and a vortex 
 has opened up between Earth and a world called Aldepha. You have to travel to Adelpha with two 
 scientists and an exobiologist (who you have a history with!) . On arriving your comrades have disappeared 
 and the locals think you are a god come to save them from an evil dictator. It is a little information 
 heavy at the start, but preserve a little and come back to the initial location a couple times 
 to get the info again when it will gel better and you will be off on the greatest PC adventure 
 you have ever played! It will suck you in and before very long at all you will want to save these 
 local inhabitants!
  
  It is 80% adventure, 10% RPG and 10% shooter. In fact a lot of the time you can avoid the shooting 
 by being a little stealthy. The fighting is strategic as the enemy AI is very sharp, with groups 
 splitting with one calling for help on a trumpet like alarm (and trust me, if another patrol hears 
 it they will come to help!) one coming straight at you and two trying to get around you with flanking 
 moves. They are quite happy to change weapons in mid stream to get you better! For a game six years 
 old. The AI in this beats many modern day FPS's!
  
  I won; t tell you more of the story as it is so engrossing and engaging you need to go into it as 
 open minded as you can!
  
  I envy you playing this game for the first time. It is such an eye opener and so joyful to play 
 it will be at the top of you gaming list in no time at all! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jemorjem
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 23, 2006 5:22 pm PT
Review:  In 1999, this game should have been an instant classic. But, unfortunately for the US, it fell 
 under the radar. This is one of the best games I have ever played. An amazing story (although not 
 entirely original) , great gameplay, great sound and a lengthy single player experience make it 
 great on paper. But Outcast has an special quality to it that is hard to describe. It made you 
 feel like you were part of a new world . It sucked me in until I couldn't stop playing. It may 
 be 6 years old, but you must get this game. It'll probably cost you 10 cents -- what do you have 
 to lose??? 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
