-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Outcry
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/adventure/outcry/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Philosophical storyline that questions the nature of existence.
 Distinctive visual gimmick and dramatic musical score.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 So bizarre and lacking in feedback that it loses you.
 Puzzle clues are too often buried in dense, boring documents.
 Visuals are often so stylized that they obscure clues and objects.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep 12, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 4
Critic Score: 6.6, 11 Review (s)
User Score: 5.0, 117 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: The Adventure Company
Developer: Phantomery
Genre: Adventure
Date:     Aug 26, 2008
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Outcry is one of the more surreal and impenetrable adventure games ever made. 

  Adventure gamers looking for something off the beaten path get more than they bargain for in Outcry. 
 This point-and-click exercise in the surreal from Russian developer Phantomery Interactive is certainly 
 a step removed from the norm, but it's also so relentlessly strange and impenetrable that it's 
 nearly impossible to play. Style has been elevated over substance in every aspect of the design, 
 resulting in a trippy game that's appealing only for its bizarre atmosphere, philosophical pretensions, 
 and striking visuals.  

  Even the basic storyline is tough to figure out, because you're given little to go on. The game 
 begins with the anonymous protagonist (you have to check the manual to find out that you're a "middle-aged 
 writer") receiving a letter from his estranged brother. Apparently your brother is a scientist 
 working on a "paramount experiment that unlocks new horizons of human cognition" and involves getting 
 "in precise sync with inner frequencies." The letter he sends you is tangled and nonsensical, and 
 it hurls you into the game knowing precisely zip about what you're supposed to be doing. Getting 
 the news that your brother has disappeared is the only part of the game's opening that is the slightest 
 bit understandable. Various documents and recordings left around his abandoned residence seem to 
 indicate that his experiment involved ancient megaliths, time travel, checking out alternate dimensions, 
 separating human consciousness from the body, coming up with a recipe for really great salsa... that 
 sort of thing. You eventually uncover a grab bag of goofiness about ancient secrets and the nature 
 of reality. Still, none of it really connects. Either something was lost in the translation from 
 the original Russian, or the storyline was just too New Agey in the first place.  

           Searching for a missing relative may be one of the oldest adventure cliches, but this 
 Acme brand plot has never been presented in quite this fashion.      

  What the game loses in lucidity it gains in an inspired presentation. Outcry's visuals are downright 
 hallucinogenic. Every scene is overlaid with an aging filter loaded with dark sepia tones, skips, 
 a main light source that dims and shines like a strobe effect, and other film flaws that make it 
 seem as though you're viewing a long-lost movie reel. Some scenes are even in black and white. 
 Because this layer is placed between your first-person perspective and the backdrops of the adventure, 
 everything seems like a dream or an old memory. Nothing establishes a particular time or place, 
 either. Everything around you is decrepit -- one of the first things you see in your brother's house 
 is an old gramophone -- but it's hard to say for sure what year it is despite references to the early 
 20th century, such as notes mentioning Sigmund Freud's "new" theories. The rooms are so dingy and 
 the machinery is so rusted that they appear to have been abandoned centuries ago. It could be yesterday, 
 it could be 1920, or it could be who knows when, which is an unsettling notion that goes hand in 
 hand with the surreal story to keep you off-kilter throughout the game.  

  Poorly presented puzzles also keep you off balance, though not in a good way. The game mixes traditional 
 adventure puzzles involving collecting and combining items with set-piece logic brain-twisters 
 where you twirl valves, pull levers, and crack codes, but there is zero feedback provided for your 
 efforts. It's nearly impossible to determine if you're on the right track, because the protagonist 
 never says a word and the interface doesn't offer up any information about your surroundings. There's 
 no indication that you've solved a puzzle, and when you click valves or levers into the right position 
 you never receive "You've done it!" triggers like green flashing lights or the noise of a door 
 opening in the distance. Instead, to check on your progress, you have to run off to see if the 
 door has opened, the water has been turned on, the stairs have moved into place, and so forth. 
 Not fun.  

  Interacting with objects is just as frustrating. Items that can be picked up look exactly the same 
 as those that form part of the immobile scenery. Pixel hunts are necessary in every location you 
 visit, and it's extra tedious here because those stylish, old-timey visuals make everything so 
 dark and grimy that it's almost impossible to spot everything during your first run-through. You 
 constantly find yourself backtracking to pick up objects that you have overlooked. Even worse, 
 many items cause the cursor to change to indicate that they can be interacted with in some way, 
 but they don't actually do anything. In the usual adventure game, such situations often provoke 
 a quip from the hero indicating what you need to do to use the object in question. Here, though, 
 nothing happens at all. There are no comments from the mute protagonist and no text tips from the 
 game itself.  

  One example of this can be found early in the second chapter when you're trying to assemble the 
 scattered pieces of a key. The last piece is right in front of you in one scene, and it looks like 
 you can simply reach out and grab it. But when you try to do so, nothing happens. There is no note 
 that you can't quite reach the component and no suggestion that you need a little help. So good 
 luck determining that you need to take an apparently unrelated item from elsewhere in the level, 
 lock it in a vise, bend it with a hammer into the shape of a hook, and then use this impromptu 
 tool to grab the key part. You're always left to muddle through on your own, which is often impossible 
 without help from a walk-through or a gang of similarly befuddled adventure gamers on a forum. 

           Reading books and diaries is expected in adventure games -- although nobody wants to sign 
 on for pretentious philosophizing and botany.      

  Clues are present, although they tend to be buried in the text-heavy diaries, random scraps of 
 paper, and academic textbooks that your brother left scattered all over the place. This forces 
 you to wade through a ton of dull science-speak about everything from botany to ancient megaliths. 
 Just about everything is written in an awkward style, and the diary entries are accompanied by 
 stilted spoken dialogue read phonetically by someone whose sole experience with English seems to 
 have been watching  Simpsons  reruns on Moscow Channel 4. These sections are so annoying that they 
 distract you from reading the lines on your own. Thankfully, you can ditch them by turning off 
 the sound effects (you lose everything this way, not just the vocals, although this isn't much 
 of a sacrifice since the game is almost silent) and just leaving on the moody, piano-heavy musical 
 score.  

  Outcry is weird with a capital "W," as thick with atmosphere as a snowy night in St. Petersburg, 
 deeply pretentious, and mind-bogglingly incomprehensible. Like a piece in one of its own puzzles, 
 you can pick Outcry up, but good luck figuring out what to do with it.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (8 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Fobeus
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 1, 2009 12:29 pm PT
Review:  There's not much I can say about the story without giving away the whole plot, but here it goes. 
 [Plot] You play a man in search of his brother, you arrive at his apartment but he's nowhere to 
 be found. Your mission is to find him, or at least what happened to him [End of Plot] .
  
  I went into this game thinking that it's gonna be a scary Adventure game which it's not (Nancy 
 Drew games have more scares than this one) . There is one disturbing scene in the game which in 
 my opinion had no point (story, gameplay wise) anyway.
  
  Graphics are dated (some parts look ok, others not so much) . 
  
  Story's kinda dull but keeps 
 you interested to play the game to the end. 
  
  Fairly logical puzzles except for the Harp tower puzzle (the person who wrote this puzzle must 
 be def or have some serious hearing issues) . 
  
  Very short game, if you don't struggle with the puzzles this game can be finished within 3 to 3 
 1/2 hours. I knew it was gonna be short when the first letter was read, dragged out, slow dialog 
 says they're trying to extend gameplay time.
  
  Personally I'm unimpressed, it's just another game that will gather dust on my shelf. I don't hate 
 the game, but I don't love it either.
  
  Pros: It's an adventure game.
  Cons: It's just another adventure game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sky-ia
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 26, 2008 11:19 am PT
Review:  A very short review. I didn't want to rate this game with the score only, it's one of those unique 
 pieces of art you may love or hate, appreciate or give a dressing-down just because you didn't 
 made it into level number two in the whole day.
  
  Nowadays, players became to much used to hints, clues, shining cursors, etc, so whenever they cannot 
 solve the problem immediately they quit giving low score. This game is difficult, I admit, it's 
 damn difficult, you have to search for clues in other dimensions, in past and future yet usually 
 being closed in just two or three rooms. There are a lot of books, diaries, notes and letters you 
 must read carefully to know what to do next, there's also plenty of machines to repair or run and 
 some mixtures to prepare. In case of riddles I would give 9/10 points, however I cannot rate this 
 game objectively because the background was completely out of my field of interest. Time machines, 
 device making, botanic riddles, all those was a little too dull. I love the concept of abandoned 
 house but it occurred to have few rooms only, I loved the desert town, but it was too small and 
 again instead of a story you just had something to repair again. Throughout the whole game you 
 won't meet any living person, there's not even one element of surprise, I felt like it's a game 
 for boys only, or scientists only, yet I was going forward, often with a walkthrough but I wanted 
 to know how will it end and now I'm done and still don't know what was it all about. I wish to 
 discuss it with someone but all the people I asked told me that they didn't finish it because it 
 was too difficult. Zomg ._.
  
  Sorry, for such a subjective review and lots of personal impressions. I recommend this game to 
 all point and click adventure lovers even if you will play it with a walkthrough. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nattravnen
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 7, 2008 9:36 am PT
Review:  I kind of liked everything with this game except the ridiculous puzzle solving. I'm a fan of surrealism 
 and I did really enjoy the storyline and I think the ending was a twister that fitted in quite 
 well, but when you can not get to the end of a game without having to read a walkthrough (sometimes 
 very carefully) it does not get to you in a way it could have. At some points it's so surrealistic 
 I don't think it would have helped trying to solve it for a year, you just won't see how the game 
 developers where thinking.
  
  The atmosphere and the whole feeling to it when listening to the music and reading all the texts 
 (which you should since it makes you more involved in the story) that is to be found every here 
 and there gives the experience a mature and philosophic touch, which to me is very refreshing in 
 the world of video gaming. 
  
  If they would have made the movement more free (instead of the move-from-spot-to-spot) , and the 
 puzzling less frustrating, and perhaps added a couple of chapters, this would have been awesome. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: markringo
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 5, 2008 2:05 pm PT
Review:  Old-style visual effects, surreal storyline, unfathomable puzzles, peculiar music, Octcry dooms 
 to be the one of weirdest adventure game ever made these years. Unlike other adventure games that 
 gave players a clear, easy to understand plot, Octcry seemed views itself as a piece of art because 
 of its incredible story goes beyond nearly everyone's imagination. Many hard-to-understand movies, 
 paintings and books are regarded classic by the critics simply because they have sth meaningful 
 deeply within which normal watchers or readers never get from the first time they watch it or read 
 it. So it's hard for us to say Octcry is bad or whatever, but weird is the first impression. It's 
 difficult for us to figure out the puzzles in the game, let along its plot. To become a classic, 
 undoubtedly, Octcry need time to prove itself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: carpie101
Rating: 4
Date: Sep 30, 2008 9:44 am PT
Review:  this has to be one of the hardest games to play after a week of playing and not getting out of 
 the apartment i used a walk through which showed that it would of taken quiet along time to figure 
 this game out and the makers new this as they par took in the walk through if you search google 
 with outcry walk through you will get the main one there can not be that many out there good luck 
 if you are playing this game right now ...............
  
  i said all i wat to say why is it keep popping me up forciing me to type hey give it a rest we 
 do want we want when we want
  
  you really do make me sick
  The minimum allowed size for a review is 800 characters. Your review is 569 characters long.
 
  
  When writing your review, remember to keep the language clean. Reviews must be 100 words minimum. 
 We encourage you to try to get your review right the first time-you may choose to edit it later 
 on, but by doing so, you will lose any positive feedback associated with the review. We encourage 
 you to write your review in a word processor or text editor, save it to your local disk, then copy 
 and paste it into the posting box below. 
  
  after 5 time s please set a diffulculllllly tityiyignjfgn jkfjnfnjfjnj balls man 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lordaltay1
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 21, 2008 10:00 pm PT
Review:  I've been a PC gamer for decades, adventure games used to be some of my favorite but I had not 
 visited the genre for years.
  
  When I saw Outcry on GameSpot's review list I decided to give it a try. Now let me just say this 
 -- the only reason I've given Outcry a semi respectable score is because of the nostalgia factor. 
 I loved games like Myst and Lighthouse. I like my Adventure games hard as hell and silent, and 
 Outcry fit the bill rather well.
  
  The game is insanely difficult and I had to 'cheat' at parts via a walk through (I'd say I cheated 
 ~20% of the game) As others have said, the dialogue is rather poor, especially since the voice 
 actor reads so SLOWLY!
  
  Overall, this is a pretty short game with 4 chapters, three of which I managed to beat with very 
 occasional help in 3 hours. The last chapter is a real headache which I could not master. The ending 
 is strange, it doesn't really connect any of the loose plot points which is a shame.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: happyface100
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 21, 2008 4:42 am PT
Review:  This game kills you're neurons !!! If you manage to finish it, you surely have HQ over 108 that's 
 for sure... and NO WALKTHROUGH ok ? some of the puzzles , hell, ALL of the puzzles are really deadly, 
 kills you're brains !!! 
  
  The Good: 
  
  It's an adventure game !!! Heck I love em' !
  
  The Bad: 
  
  The voices in the game are 
 .... well as bad as the puzzles...
  
  Some graphic glitches, nothing too important...
  
  It's on the PC !!! 
  
  Overall:
  
  Not recommended for someone who want's to start 
 an adventure game.... reminds me of Broken Sword 1 .... still, that was epic !!! And to cover the 
 rest of the letters I have to write, which in my opinion is a very stupid idea to put 800 characters 
 MINIMUM in a review that deserves less than half of that number.... I'll put some "aaaaaaa"'s to 
 fill it up.... sorry guys but there's nothing I can say for this adventure, aaah , thingy !!! 
 
  
  aaaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaa 
  
  END 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Andrex1212
Rating: 4.5
Date: Oct 30, 2008 8:11 pm PT
Review:  As I saw this game at EB Games during a break from school I thought "this game looks amazing, the 
 visuals are insane and the cover for the game has grabbed my attention". Then I look at the price 
 of $19.99. I then thought to myself "There is no way this could be a good game if it's that cheap". 
 So I go home and decide I will download the game to see if it is fun and I will buy it if I like 
 it enough.
  
  You start the game in a room. Yup, it's just some room in some place that you have no idea why 
 you are there and where you actually are. The time frame isn't given and the only way you can make 
 an estimated guess is by looking at the objects in each room. For instance, nobody uses gramophones 
 nowadays to my recollection so this has to be quite a few decades ago.
  
  I was kind of nervous because I wasn't sure what to expect, the visuals were as stunning as I had 
 hoped, but I also hated the transitions between new sections of the area. When you click to go 
 forward it will go black and do a frame by frame skip to the next part, but if you are playing 
 this in the dark then you might think "if these transitions were more rapid, I might start seizing". 
 And well, I had to turn off the transitions in the options menu which I must make a point on. I 
 use my computer on a 32" LCD TV that is mounted on my wall and proves as a significant light source 
 in my room, but I also need to run games in 720p or higher to make them look good (that is 1280x720) . 
 This game doesn't have a resolution option, so I had no idea what my moniter was running on. The 
 game also only has a sound option and a couple other options that I didn't even know what they 
 did.
  
  As you continue to the main room that has a giant (teleportation?) machine, you are bombarded with 
 a long speech from your "brother" that tries to explain something but I honestly was so baffled 
 and confused by what was going on and where I was that I couldn't pay attention. There areabout 
 3 rooms you can explore; the piano room, the botany room and the basement. There is a puzzle in 
 each room that I had no idea how to solve until I noticed there were documents on the table. I 
 then screamed at the thought of having to read all of these documents to get answers for puzzles 
 because I am not a fan of having to skim read boring text to try and look for an answer. I really 
 didn't end up playing this game for more than about an hour and a half because of the fact that 
 I got frustrated at this point: They give you NO acknowledgement that you have done a puzzle correctly. 
 Absolutely none from anywhere. I turned up my sound extra loud to see if there was something faint 
 and there was nothing. If handed to the right people, this game could be altered to be really cool, 
 as long as the idea doesn't go down hill from where it had started. 
  
  Summary: Great visuals, better narrating needed, irritating and boring when needing to walk back 
 and forth to see if your solution to a puzzle works. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
