-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Outlaw Chopper
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/outlawchopper/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 The uninstall client is fully functional.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Awkward, poorly conceived combat mechanics that make some missions atrociously frustrating.
 Your bike handles as if its tires have been dunked in Crisco.
 Terrible graphics.
 Missions are consistently dull and half-baked in design.
 Lack of a retry option or a halfway-decent map system makes missions even more frustrating.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jul 26, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 2.4
Critic Score: 2.4, 4.0 Review (s)
User Score: 4.0, 107 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: VU Games
Developer: Jarhead Games
Genre: Action
Date:     Jul 11, 2006
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
This god-awful Grand Theft Auto clone looks, sounds, and plays like it cost even less to make than 
 it will cost you to buy it. 

  Some people might argue that the Grand Theft Auto series, for all the attention it gets, wouldn't 
 amount to much if you stripped out the games' top-notch storylines, consistently excellent voice 
 acting, unique sense of style, clever mission designs, enjoyable driving mechanics, engaging combat, 
 and sheer environmental scope. For those who believe this, your messiah has arrived in the form 
 of Outlaw Chopper. This budget-priced PC action game strips out all of the above from the GTA formula, 
 leaving only the most bare, skeletal mechanics required to make for a functional game. And it is 
 functional -- but as far as entertainment goes, Outlaw Chopper is completely bereft of anything of 
 the sort.  

          Do we even need a caption for this?     

  Outlaw Chopper tells the story of a rogue biker on the hunt for revenge. As said biker, you've 
 just been released from prison after a five-year stint. You were set up by another biker named 
 Blade, who sold you out to the cops, then proceeded to take over your operation while you were 
 wasting away in the clink. Now alone and with no rep to speak of, your job is to work your way 
 through the crime-filled streets of Rockland, doing assorted missions for various criminal types 
 in order to get back what was yours and extract revenge. If this sounds like the basic setup for 
 just about every GTA-esque game from the last few years, that's because it is, but with bikers. 
 Frankly, the story never really comes across as anything but an excuse to get you out on the streets 
 of Rockland, riding around aimlessly and occasionally killing people.  

  Potentially this wouldn't be so bad, except that the gameplay is the unfortunate combination of 
 achingly dull and badly realized. One key detail that must be made clear from the get-go is that 
 you never, ever get off your bike in Outlaw Chopper. All the missions are built in such a way that 
 every objective merely involves you riding around from place to place. When combat does occasionally 
 rear its ugly head, you're forced to awkwardly shoot or swing your weapon while trying to steer 
 the world's most unwieldy motorcycle at the same time. It would help if you had halfway-decent 
 aiming controls to work with, but sadly, you do not. So instead, you're forced to try and fumble 
 your way through every instance of combat without scrambling to pull up your start menu and frantically 
 click on the uninstall button. This is, of course, a losing battle.  

  The bike itself is an unholy beast, difficult to steer, even more difficult to stop, and constantly 
 threatening to send you flying after bumping into a seemingly innocuous object at a relatively 
 low speed, or blow up after a few well-placed gunshots by various denizens of the city who are 
 shooting at you for no explained reason. The physics of the bike just feel broken. Trying to slow 
 the thing down is practically an exercise in futility early on, because you literally have to stop 
 braking several blocks before your intended destination, or you're going to blow right past the 
 thing. Likewise, trying to slow down to take sharp turns rarely ever works correctly. Unless you 
 come to a near-grinding halt at every single turn, odds are you'll overshoot the angle and go crashing 
 into a nearby building. Suffice it to say, this gets very old very quickly. It also doesn't help 
 matters that you can only control the bike using a keyboard-and-mouse setup. The game purports 
 to support gamepads, but every gamepad we used popped up a "this button is already bound to another 
 action" error, even when said buttons are assigned to nothing.  

  As the game goes on, you can improve the feel of the bike a bit by buying new parts for the thing. 
 In fact, right away you should buy the most expensive brakes in the game, because without them, 
 you're hosed. Even with them, you still feel like you have to give way too much lead time in order 
 to come to a total stop, but at least it isn't quite as horrendous as it is with the default parts. 
 Beyond this, you can improve your bike's armor, acceleration, and the like, but these improvements 
 aren't especially tangible when driving around, so it's not hard to feel like you're riding on 
 a mobile money pit.  

  The game's mission designs run the archetypal GTA mission gamut, but only on the most base level. 
 You'll do assassin missions, tailing missions, robbery missions, race missions, and in the early 
 goings, a  lot  of courier missions. The trouble with all of these missions is that practically 
 every single one feels tacked on, rather than a part of a cohesive progression. One minute you're 
 murdering enemies, and the next you're delivering invitations to a little girl's birthday party. 
 And with the exception of the combat, there's nothing to any of them. They're like purely mechanical 
 copies of the types of missions you'd find in a GTA game, with no soul behind any of it. You're 
 frequently left with a sense that you're just going through the motions, much the way the developers 
 clearly just went through the motions in designing this game. Things are made a bit more complex 
 by the total lack of a retry option. If you fail a mission, you will have to drive all the way 
 back to where that mission began to start it over, and you'll be forced to watch the introductory 
 cutscene each and every time you start over, as there is no option to skip it.  

          Hey! I love Miami Ink! But not as much as I love dynamic in-game advertising!     

 
  Graphically, Outlaw Chopper is, in a word, atrocious. Your first order of business will need to 
 be to up the game's resolution to the highest it can feasibly go, because on any resolution but 
 the top ones, the game looks so horrifically pixelated that you'll wonder if the publisher didn't 
 accidentally ship a pre-alpha version of the game. This isn't to suggest that the game looks particularly 
 good in high resolution, either, but you can at least look at the game without wanting to claw 
 your eyes out. Everything in Outlaw Chopper just has an exceedingly low-rent look to it. People, 
 buildings, cars -- all of it is overly angular, chock-full of nasty-looking textures, and just plain 
 ugly. You'll also run into plenty of random animation and camera glitches, too. If you drive your 
 bike into a guy that's supposed to give you a mission, he'll magically appear on top of your head 
 every time, and start walking around on an invisible plane in midair. If your bike ever gets in 
 too narrow an alley and you have to back up, the camera will go utterly spastic and try and induce 
 a seizure out of you. The whole game is loaded with goofy stuff like this, many of which are kind 
 of funny the first time you see them, but then just become kind of depressing after a while.  

 
  The game's audio is measurably better than the graphics, but not by a whole lot. The voice acting 
 is rather stiff, but the material the actors are given isn't exactly high art, either, so they 
 seem to make do. The basic sound effects are kind of cheesy but not out of place, and the soundtrack 
 is made up of the sort of generic rock and metal you'd expect. It basically sounds like what would 
 happen if Black Label Society made music for TV commercials.  

  There are approximately a billion games on the market right now that ape the GTA formula, and do 
 it a metric ton better than Outlaw Chopper. In fact, as if the game's horrible gameplay and production 
 values weren't enough of a tragedy, there are actually real, honest to god Grand Theft Auto games 
 available for the PC platform that currently retail for  less  than what Outlaw Chopper costs. 
 Do yourself a solid, and don't play this game.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (6 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: hypedrum
Rating: 1
Date: Jan 9, 2008 3:39 am PT
Review:  This is probably, no absolutely the worst piece of crap I've ever had the displeasure of playing. 
 Thank god I didn't buy it, unfortunately for my friend who did he lost money on it. Thankfully 
 I threw the thing out the window onto the street and it was run-over by a bus rendering the disc 
 useless. Well actually it's more useful now than it was when it booted. It can't harm anyone else 
 anymore and that's a good thing. The developers should also be thrown out the window and get run 
 over by a bus. Then they could no longer cause anyone harm by making crappy games.
  
  Don't buy it and if your friend does. Throw it the hell away fast. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: projorgy
Rating: 1.4
Date: Aug 19, 2006 7:56 am PT
Review:  Don't waste your money cause it just sucks! If you want a good game at this time then buy Grand 
 Theft Auto it's more fun en that game is not a waste of time! I have play this Outlaw Chopper one 
 time and game game is already boring... The racing the fighting .. everything is bad! 
  
  I say: don't buy this thing! And be smart buy Grand Theft Auto or Midtown Madness 2!
  
  Don't 
 Buy this game! Don't Buy this game! Don't Buy this game! Don't Buy this game! Don't Buy this game! 
 Don't Buy this game! Don't Buy this game! Don't Buy this game! Don't Buy this game! Don't Buy this 
 game! Don't Buy this game! Don't Buy this game! Don't Buy this game! Don't Buy this game!
  
  If you don't understand that you suck! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FriendBear
Rating: 1.3
Date: Aug 1, 2006 1:23 pm PT
Review:  Okay, if you're actually reading this review. STOP Just read the line below and walk away, please 
 for heavens sake.... walk away!
  
  American Chopper is a horrible mess of a game
  
  Now for a partial review since I just can't bring to words how bad this game really is, I played 
 it all for about 10 minutes before frantically searching for the uninstaller, on the plus side 
 the installation process doesn't take long..
  
  Actually playing the game, it kinder reminds me of a cross between Midtown Madness and Road Rash 
 with the outlaw driving around on a huge chopper which in reality isn't the most maneuverable bike 
 out there and in-game pretty much almost the same way except in certain areas where its just plain 
 wrong such as brakes, braking in AC seems to take pure luck since it can take a long time to actually 
 stop assuming that you haven't hit a brick wall or a car by that time. Other traffic in game also 
 seems to be completely on rails quite often switching lanes directly into the player forcing him 
 to go flying off the bike or worse.
  
  The fighting in the game is just as bad, very similar to road rash in many ways just worse. Really, 
 there isn't much else to say about this game just avoid this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Geon106
Rating: 1.4
Date: Jul 30, 2006 2:58 am PT
Review:  This game is a insult to PC Gamers, our computers can easily out perform even the next gen consoles 
 yet some developers really try and make us look like n00bs. This game is terrible. Its what GTA 
 3 would look like on a playstation 1, seriously. I didn't think anything could look worse than 
 True Crime! And we all know that came sucked so much.
  
  Its not even worth playing, its only good if you have a really old PC that can't handle GTA. I 
 think we should all wait till GTA4: London to be released, it'll be a real hit with my let down 
 graphics/physics/everything.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: eduardo27
Rating: 1.1
Date: Jul 28, 2006 12:25 pm PT
Review:  Dont buy it. this game is only for spent your time in horrible way, don't make another mistake 
 like me, don't waist your money in this, ist prefer end to buy a Pokemon card or hallmark ornaments.
 
  I don't know how much time can u make for a game like this?, or this company need a rewind mind 
 for the next projects or do something else for the good of gamers. I want my money back!!!, or 
 at least an apologize for the company and designer for this ridiculous and awful game ever, bet 
 for worst in 2006 you can have my vote for sure 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nappan
Rating: 1.3
Date: Jul 26, 2006 5:49 pm PT
Review:  I played this game for 2 hours. That's it, and I feel confident writing this review. Outlaw Chopper 
 is broken. The fact that it's a ripoff of GTA (I mean, to the point of being actual plagiarism... 
 insofar as it replicates a game at all) is unimportant, because it is broken. Broken like a bike 
 with no wheels. The gameplay is insanely bad to the point of being unplayable, glitches are EVERYWHERE, 
 and it's so boring that I wouldn't even PIRATE the damned thing. If I were a US Marine, I would 
 take my gun and shoot the developer for being called "Jarhead Games". If the developers are marines... 
 remember the scene in Full Metal Jacket when Vincent Dinafrio blows his brains out in the bathroom? 
 Take a cue Jarhead Games.
  
  Oh, and Vivendi Universal? **** you. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
