-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Outlaws
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/outlaws/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr 30, 1997
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.6
Critic Score: 8.0, 4 Review (s)
User Score: 8.7, 451 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: LucasArts
Genre: Action
Date:     Mar 31, 1997

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
From the opening level, you'll know you're in for a movie-worthy experience. 

 Weren't so long ago that the Spirit of Digital Western Gaming roamed these plains, moanin' and cussin' 
 something fierce about getting no respect. Mayhap he didn't rightly deserve much - you might remember 
 Sunset Riders or maybe Mad Dog McCree - mere tinkles in the comprehensive wind of the Western genre 
 - and what else comes to mind? Dust, maybe (a fine game, but a little too Nice, and you can guess 
 what happens to "Nice" out these ways) . Still, the lack of true Western computer games was a crime, 
 a terrible crime.  

 Now comes Outlaws, and there just ain't room enough in this town for anybody else.   

 In Outlaws, 
 you don the duds and irons of the archetypal Avenging Loner who rides into town seeking to redress 
 the wrongs committed by a railroad tycoon and his renegade thugs. Using both the 3D engine from 
 the popular Dark Forces and Rebel Assualt II's INSANE engine, Outlaws combines all the elements 
 of classic 1960s Leone-esque Westerns in a first-person shooter that is probably the first point-of-view 
 crawler since Marathon with an actual, articulated plot.   

 You take the role of ex-marshal James Anderson, whose life is shattered by vicious desperados who 
 murder his wife and kidnap his daughter, leading the determined hero on an avenging, unshaven kill 
 spree through a prairie stronghold, a lethal sun-battered township with the unlikely name of Sanctuary, 
 a clattering, swaying-car passenger train, and more. Inspired by such films as A Fistful of Dollars 
 and other spaghetti westerns, Outlaws is a respectable step forward in the first-person shooter 
 genre; even the gorgeous and gloomy Quake had only the lamest excuse for a plot. Not so with Outlaws, 
 where in the middle of a tense back-room shoot-out the game will suddenly cut to an animated cinematic 
 sequence which moves the story, and the motivations of the player, along.   

 From the opening level, you'll know you're in for a movie-worthy experience. The Western alone (with 
 the possible exception of the noir gumshoe film) is a genre which not only embraces cliches but 
 actually seems to improve with them, and they are all, every one of them, here: The greedy, amoral 
 railroad baron makes his debut within the opening movie; the chugging, desolate Western music (which 
 seems at times to have been lifted whole-cloth from Ennio Morricone's soundtracks) gives an unmistakable 
 Leone-esque tang to the wide-open skies, dusty streets and grungy buildings of some skanky desert 
 way station crawling with gunslingers of low moral character; bartop bottles and expensive plate 
 glass windows don't fare well in the vicinity of saloons or anywhere else, and inventory icons 
 take the form of the fanned playing cards one might find in such dens of sin; every counting-house, 
 feed store, and livery stable has a back door, a hidden room, or a secret rifleman's niche, ideally 
 suited for the dirty-dealing desperado who wants a clean view of Main Street in case the hero decides 
 to walk down it (the rifle-scope, a nifty and dirty little piece of coding, affords the player 
 a small, magnified patch of distant, crosshaired scenery through which to deal his brand of frontier 
 justice) ; even the boiler-plate trick perpetrated by Clint the Great and Squinty-Eyed is here (and 
 if you don't know what I'm talking about, stop reading my review this instant) .  

 LucasArts knew that if it didn't make this one multiplayer (some fans still say Dark Forces with 
 an inflection of resentment) , it would get fire-bombed. Well, it's multiplayer - up to eight over 
 modem, network, or Internet to be precise. There's something mighty fine, special, and personal 
 about loading your six-shooter two shells at a time with your own fingers, ka-chik ka-chick ka-chik, 
 before gunning down your friends through a barred jail window at two hundred paces.   

 To reiterate: The buffet at the Badass Western Computer Gaming table is slim pickins 'ceptin one 
 game. Outlaws is it, pardner - the main stick, the top gun, the most complete and faithful Old 
 West shooter in the industry to date. The bad guys in western cliches are always givin' you 'til 
 sundown, but don't be surprised if you find yourself playing this one 'til sunrise.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (13 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: NoseWeed619
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 15, 2008 10:43 pm PT
Review:  From the beginning of the game, when you first start the campaign, you can tell that Outlaws is 
 going to be a great video game. It has some of the best cut scenes of any game of its time. That's 
 what starts it off. 
  
  The beginning cutscene shows this villian who kills your wife, and captures your daughter, all 
 while your out getting some whisky. Sad isn't it? So, after coming home, and you see what happens, 
 what are you going to doi? Go kick the guys ass.
  
  So from there on out, you'll be shooting this villians henchmen, with a variety of weapons that 
 will all make you happy. 
  
  You first start out with a pistol. The pistol has a low-medium range. It can kill the basic henchman 
 (the thin ones) with one shot, medium or close range. This is your most basic weapon and you'll 
 be starting out with this and keeping it, cause you'll like it.
  
  Your second weapon is a rifle. The rifle is... a rifle. You know it's capabilities. It's good at 
 long range, medium range, and short range. It's a good all around weapon. 
  
  Your third weapon is a shotgun. It's a single shot shotgun that can do incredible damage to any 
 level of henchman at close range. Now this is your basic shotgun, which means that at a longer 
 range than close range, the bullets will spread out. Therefore, the shotgun is not recommended 
 at longer ranges. 
  
  Your fourth weapon is a double barreled shotgun. This is awesome! It's just like your shotgun, 
 except that there's two bullets fired at once. Pretty self explanatory huh, via the name. You get 
 this weapon later in the game, on the 2nd CD. I'll get to the whole 2nd CD Jazz later.
  
  Your fifth weapon is a sawed off shotgun. This is a shotgun with an even shorter range then the 
 shotgun, but it does more damage. It's a very good gun if you are using this in close quarter combat, 
 but in Outlaws, that's really not a big thing.
  
  Your sixth weapon is dynamite. Dynamite is dynamite. It explodes, and if there is a group of guys 
 bunched up together, then you can expect some limbs blowing off, and some major dying. To yse the 
 dynamite though, you'll have to press and hold the z key, or else it will juts keep on throwing 
 raw dynamite. (Dynamite that isn't lighted.)
  
  Your seventh weapon in Outlaws, is knives. You pick up knives on the level where the Indian guy 
 is the boss. The knives and not that great to tell you the truth, especially for newbies. Although 
 if you practice enough, then you can become extremly good with them, although it'll take about 
 3 or 4 knives to kill the most basic henchman. To throw the knives farther, you have to press and 
 hold the left mouse button, versus just clicking the left mouse button, which will result in a 
 whimpy throw.
  
  Your eigth weapon in the game, and perhaps the best weapon ever, is the Gatlin Gun. That's right, 
 you read that correctly. The Gatlin Gun, can fire an extroidanary amount of rounds per minute, 
 but it is so heavy that you can't move or walk with it, which is the sad truth. There is a cheat 
 though that allows you to run with the Gatlin Gun, although that's just if you are such a loser 
 and intend to be one. 
  
  So that basically rounds up the weapons part of Outlaws. Just basically your generic weapons that 
 you would find in all the Western Movies.
  
  Outlaws' henchmen have 3 basic levels. 1 is the basic henchman, that are really skinny. They usually 
 just have pistols. But there are some that carry rifles and shotguns. You'll get to know them by 
 the color of thier shirts as you progress in the game.
  
  The second level of henchmen, are the fatter ones. They usually are firing two pisols, thus when 
 you kill them, and you walk over where there ammo is, you will get twice the amount of that if 
 you killed a basic henchman carrying only one pistol. They are usually more accurate and harder 
 to kill then your basic henchman.
  
  The toughest and final henchman type is the boss. There's a boss at the end of every level. They 
 get harder as you progress throughout the game. They usually have some specific weapon that they 
 are famous for. They work for the desperado that killed your wife and captured your daughter. They 
 are the toughest to kill, and they know how to shoot! Beware of these guys, espcially if you are 
 playing on a higher difficlty level. 
  
  So, that's basically it. You collect a various amount of weapons as you progress throughout the 
 game and go through the levels, until you fight the desperado that you've been after. But what 
 makes Outlaws such a great game, is a 3D engine ahead of it's time, wonderful cut scenes, and just 
 the general funness that goes along with this game. You won't be disappointed when you pick up 
 this game, trust me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: macmert
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 24, 2008 7:46 am PT
Review:  Ahh it has been years since I played this game but I want to write something about it anyway cause 
 it is a game worth talking about...
  
  Forget about FEAR and dunno many sci fi scary shooters or huge graphic impact of Unreal or Half 
 Life... The Good the Bad and the Ugly... This summerizes the whole game, you play the character 
 as the Marshall James Anderson an ex - lawman who retired and lived happily in his farm with his 
 wife and daughter...
  
  But one day bandits come to his farm, kill his wife and kidnap his girl... The real thrill starts 
 right there!!
  
  The cartoon graphics are awesome (for its time) and the atmosphere is amazing, you really get the 
 feeling that you are in wild west, the bad guys shout at you like "where are you marshall!"... 
 
  
  The story might sound like a classic revenge story but there is more to that...
  
  If you like a good shooter you must really try this game... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 102839
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 3, 2007 1:13 pm PT
Review:  My first game i ever bought myself. And it was the best buy i ever did!
  Outlaws is a real nice shooter with a varity of levels. In this game you don't have to use the 
 mouse because the badguys are all levelt to 1. Is that a pity? I don't think so!
  I played this game for hours and never got bored!
  I think if EA games made a new version of 
 this than it would become a great hit! I've had enough of shooting at terrorists and germans (No 
 offense, WOII games) . Let's get back to cowboys and horses!!
  Yeehaah!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Billius8
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 1, 2007 9:34 pm PT
Review:  This game had decent graphics (at the time) , fantastic music (better than any Spagetti Western's) , 
 great level and campaign design, and excellent game controls.
  
  Basically, this was a great game. I only wished there had been more of it, although it did provide 
 plenty of play time. But like a good book, you never want this one to end. When I played this game, 
 I had the haunting feeling that there was this wonderful, bittersweet world beyond just the levels; 
 it was that immersive.
  
  Hopefully, there will be an Outlaws 2 someday, or a modernized reworking of this legendary game. 
 Surely, Lucas Arts could fund something like that. It's a shame too many other western RPG's coming 
 out are so darn linear; what gives? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xanarki
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 10, 2007 9:20 am PT
Review:  Back in the old cowboy days, of course there were crime, blood, guns, and other assortment of such. 
 This time around, retired Marshall James Anderson went out to the store to buy a few things for 
 his wife. While riding back home, he finds his house nearly burnt to the ground, his wife on her 
 last lung and his daughter gone. Pretty much, Outlaws is all about revenge.
  
  Gameplay  Outlaws takes up a genre thats rarely touched to his day. And thats the western cowboy 
 genre. The game is a first-person shooter, which gives a good glimpse at the genre. The guns used 
 are classics, such as a pistol, rifle, TNT, sawn off shotguns and other western weapons. In the 
 game, the player must shoot his way through loads of enemies and then face off with a boss at the 
 end.
  
  Its not all run and gun, though. Each level requires some sort of a puzzle, whether its finding 
 the right keys, arranging some sort of stones, finding a way inside a building etc. The player 
 can run, jump, crouch, as usual. This is helpful during heavy firefights. Using the right weapon 
 is crucial too. The rifle comes with an add-on scope, if youre able to find it. The scope makes 
 it seem like a sniper rifle, western style. The knives can be used to throw, or simply stab someone 
 at close range. The pistol has two firing modes: regular trigger pulling, or slapping the back 
 of it, which in return, uses more ammo, but shoots faster.
  
  Video  The graphics are unique, in a way. While playing the game, its not hard to spot an enemy. 
 There isnt much blood, and the enemy models start to look generic and repeating after awhile. 
 The surrounding areas are nice. Youre able to shoot a beer bottle, and it will shatter. If you 
 shoot a cow skull on the ground, itll break. If you shoot a store glass window, itll break into 
 pieces as well.
  
  The cutscenes is what takes the prize home. Each is hand drawn and gives a very realistic feeling. 
 Audio  The music is very western-like, yet gets simply annoying after awhile. Luckily, it can 
 be turned off. The voice acting is suburb. In the cutscenes, the acting is very well done. As for 
 playing the game, while the player is walking around, he may hear a famous Where are ya Marshall!? 
 or I hope you plan better than you shoot! among other lines being shouted out in the distance. 
 Theyve all been stuck in my head for years, so be advised.
  
  Controls  The controls are very basic. Move, shoot, open doors, and use items. Not much to it, 
 and it takes only a minute or so to get used to it. Nothing special.
  
  Storyline  The story is well done. Not many games touch upon the western genre, even to this day. 
 The story is about a wealthy man named Bob Graham wanting to build over bought/stolen land, and 
 railroad ways. His sub-bosses, Slim and Dr. Death, visit James Anderson and offers him money to 
 buy the land. He refused, and weeks later they return. This time, Anderson isnt home. Due to anger, 
 Dr. Death and Slim kills Andersons wife and kidnaps his daughter, all while burning down his house. 
 The story revolves around Andersons revenge.
  
  Multiplayer  The multiplayer has unique modes. Instead of capture the flag, its capture the chicken. 
 There is also a deathmatch, and other modes. The multiplayer was fun at a time, but due to popularity 
 of the game decreasing, its harder to play online.
  
  Price  If youre able to find it online, Id say go and buy it. Shouldnt be too expensive.
 
  
  Replay  After beating single player, there is a historical campaign. It shows Andersons days 
 as a Marshall before the main game started. No cutscenes are in the campaign, but the levels require 
 Anderson to capture (or kill) some of the westerns biggest enemies.
  
  Overall  Its hard to find a good western shooter. Outlaws is one of the closest youll ever get, 
 at least, for now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedneckGamer87
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 3, 2007 12:18 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: This is a first person western shooter and you play as a avenging loner name Marshal 
 James Anderson who rides into town seeking to right the wrongs committed by a railroad tycoon and 
 his renegade thugs. And whose life is shattered by vicious desperados who murder his wife and kidnap 
 his daughter, leading the determined hero on an avenging, unshaven kill spree through a prairie 
 stronghold. The story of the game is just like thought western movies. Now there is even a multiplayer 
 part of the game. Outlaws is one of the first LucasArts games to feature multiplayer supportThe 
 multiplayer mode allows each player to choose from six of the 12 outlaws in the game, each with 
 his or her own unique fighting characteristics
  
  Graphics: The graphics are aboslutly amazing, it's one of the best of it's day. Outlaws uses both 
 the 3D engine from the popular Dark Forces and Rebel Assualt II's INSANE engine. But it kinda looks 
 like the quake engine. So you can imagine all the detail and stuff. This game really give you a 
 cinimatic feel with a great story.
  
  Sound: The sound in Outlaws is marvelous. Besides all of the superb voice-overs already mentioned, 
 the sounds for the environment are impressive. The hinges on doors creak, the stairs squeak, and 
 the guns echo. River's rage, wind wails, and footsteps sound out as you play, creating a very realistic 
 experience. The music is absolutly amazing. There are a total of 15 country old west CD tracks 
 that fit perfectly with the game. From The Ballad of Dr. Death to The Last Gunfight, by the Outlaws.
 
  
  Value: This game has amazing replay value, The story is amazing and you can just play it over and 
 over again. Also the Multiplayer part is very fun and will provide you with coutless amout of online 
 play. Thoug there are not as many players online anymore as it used to since not to many people 
 now know of this game.
  
  All in all, Outlaws has three complete game variations to give players rich replay value a cinematic 
 adventure game, a bounty-hunter action game and a thrilling, multiplayer game, all from a first 
 person perspective. I have really fun memories playing this game when I was younger, and starting 
 to replay it again. Every should get this game if your a fan of shooters and with a western theme. 
 I would say this game is accually better then Gun accept for the open ended part and Red Dead Revolver 
 
  
  I give this game 9.5 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doomsdaydave11
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 8, 2007 6:31 pm PT
Review:  Outlaws is an awesome shooter. There aren't very many Western games being made these days -- let 
 alone decent ones. From start to finish, Outlaws is an awesome game.
  
  Gameplay : The gameplay is very good, it has plenty of weapons, like shotguns, a pistol, a rifle, 
 throwing knives, and many more. It isn't a mindless shooter either, there are obstacles and puzzles 
 that you have to figure out.
  
  Graphics : For it's time, the graphics are decent. Just what you would expect out of a good game 
 of the time.
  
  Sound : The weapon sounds are good, but what really stands out is the incredible soundtrack. It 
 has awesome Western music -- the best I've heard from a game, I even ripped the CD to my MP3 player.
 
  
  Value: Well, its a good game, therefore has good value... nothing special.
  
  Tilt: There aren't very many decent western games out there so this old-school game deserves some 
 credit.
  
  Outlaws is a great western game, and should be picked up by any Western fan, or old-school gamer. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JOE714
Rating: 8.3
Date: Sep 21, 2006 1:54 pm PT
Review:  To me, Outlaws had the apparent distinction of beginning its development life cycle with one very 
 good question: what kind of FPS does the world need that doesnt involve space marines or wizards? 
 The answer, natch, involved a visit to an era when seemingly every cowboy, saloon madam, preacher, 
 travelling salesman, and even stablehand was packing heat and loaded for bear; when the explanation 
 he needed killin was a perfectly plausible argument for homicide. Like Doom and Heretics one-against-many 
 theme, Outlaws presented the player with no recourse but to take up arms against wave after wave 
 of uncompromising predators to save a life (which, in James Andersons case, was his adorable pig-tailed 
 daughters) . The animated introduction and cutscenes in Outlaws were always interesting and well-designed, 
 as were the levels themselves; in fact, the cartoon theme in the former served to excuse and even 
 enhance the dated, blocky, and pixellated tones in the latter. One of my few complaints about the 
 games sprite-based targets is that hit detection was somewhat off when aiming from an extremely 
 high or low level. Cheating the angle a bit (aiming slightly under the target from above, or over 
 the enemy from below) was an easy remedy, however.
  
  Notable Feature: To the best of my recollection, Outlaws was one of the first shooters that required 
 the player to manually reload his weapon. Although the effect of that requirement on the play mechanics 
 in some games is certainly arguable, the reload time for Andersons single- and double-barreled 
 shotguns definitely generated more excitement when the odds against him were stacked high.
  
  Favorite Weapon: Im going to vote for the Winchester rifle here, if only because the picture-in-picture 
 scope view was astonishingly useful for picking out the games heavily pixellated targets over 
 long distances. The rifle was also effective up close, so I kept it in hand as long as bullets 
 were available.
  
  Favorite Enemy: Most of Outlaws blocky bad guys were little more than boots, jeans, a chambray 
 shirt, and a ten-gallon hat whose accents and vocal patterns changed as the game cycled through 
 its relatively limited set of taunts. The villainous archetypes who served as a very deadly final 
 obstacle on each level were well-designed, but were ultimately just the same bad guys with some 
 extra punch in their characteristic weapons of choice.
  
  Favorite Level: Outlaws included a set of Historical Missions and Marshall Training bounty 
 hunts in addition to the interconnected story levels. The extra material covered a few different 
 styles of conflict as a warmup to the main game, like close-quarters fighting (the Villa) and long-distance 
 sniping (Buckshot Morgans Fort level, which also appeared in the main game) . The Ice Caverns 
 level was tough at the beginning and surprising toward the end, when Anderson found himself in 
 a barely-controlled slide down a long, slippery slope.
  
  LucasArts has produced some of the best sci-fi shooters in history with their Dark Jedi Republic 
 Academy Outcast Commando Forces series. Their decision to visit an era not quite so long ago and 
 in a galaxy all our own yielded some excellent gunplay and compelling Wild West drama in Outlaws. 
 Although Ive retired most of my 2.5D games (many of which dont really work well on a P4 running 
 XP, anyway) , I think Ill keep this title around for one more pass in a few years. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cmpunmu3
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 3, 2006 2:38 pm PT
Review:  Enemies everywhere, and they like to hide. You have to kill them all to avenge your family. Snipe 
 them from mountain top, from the running train, stab them in the sewers or in the dark cellars. 
 Everything in the game looked wicked to me: vegetation, terrain, critters, dungeons and mountains.
 
  A lot of secrets to find in the game, some of them extremely freaked me out.
  Difficult to target due to sensitivity in the game, and bosses are hard to deal with, 'cause most 
 of them kill you in one shot - had to be too careful.
  The music is really nice and perfectly fits every area you are in. Cut scenes are very well presented 
 and nice to watch - feels like watching an animated movie divided into many series.
  You don't have to be a FPS fan to love this game, it has a lot of things to show to the player 
 and be worthy to play over and over.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BoldoAsesino
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 25, 2006 7:25 am PT
Review:  Plot was never a strong issue of shooters. It seems that the most humble of the excuses is enough 
 to motivate both character and player to go berserk and start killing everything. Aliens want to 
 take over the world: go and stop them. A monk went nuts and wants to unleash Satan and his mommy 
 on the land: go and stop him. Aliens want to take over the world again, but this time they are 
 also killing our chicks: go and stop them. A genetic research with alien DNA went wrong and the 
 living leftovers are breeding and mutating like hell: go and wash everything up. Aliens kidnapped 
 your pregnant first-prize hog, and want to take over the world by the way, since they're already 
 here: go and stop them. Two conclusions could be drawn from this. First, shooters are fonder of 
 aliens than Fox Moulder and David Bowie together. Second, the plot is only useful for explaining 
 what's the thing you're after and why is so despicable. The problem with all of this is that every 
 shooter is more or less the same as the other ones: if you don't like this genre of games, having 
 played only one of them is enough to know what all the others are like. So, when Outlaws was released 
 back on 1996/1997, I felt that zephyr was blowing gently to tell me it was springtime again.
  Outlaws has all the necessary ingredients to become an instant classic. It has a somewhat commonplace 
 but cleverly developed and integrated plot, and it has a perfect immersing atmosphere. Let's begin 
 with the plot. You incarnate Marshal James Anderson, a former sheriff that was forced to retire 
 after being prosecuted for shooting someone. You live in peace with your wife and daughter in your 
 humble ranch without upsetting anyone. But trouble shows up in the shape of an unscrupulous contractor 
 that wants to bring the railway (his) to the land, by ways of corruption and Mafia-like persuasion. 
 Apparently, the only guy who refused to surrender his home to this evil contractor was you; and 
 since then, despite you didn't know it, you became a man marked for retaliation. And retaliation 
 came one day, when you went out of your ranch to do the shopping. The evil guys came, killed your 
 wife, kidnap your daughter, and set the house on fire. Once aware of what happened, you put your 
 hat on, load your guns, ride your horse, and start the manhunt.
  As you can see, Outlaws has a hell of a plot: notice how many lines it took me to tell you its 
 plot and compare it to Doom's one up above. But that is only the beginning, because the plot develops 
 and grows deeper and deeper. Plot is narrated and developed by the cinematic cuts at the intro, 
 the ending, and between levels. Some of them are really long the intro, for example, lasts 10 
 minutes! The cinematic cuts are of an incredible high quality, hand-drawn (you can even see the 
 strokes of the pen) and very smoothly animated. Everyone of them interconnect very cleverly each 
 level with the next one, and some of them tell interesting things about the past of Marshal James 
 Anderson...
  The atmosphere is as brilliant as the cinematics. People speak with the Texan dialect that nineteenth-century 
 cowboys are supposed to have had, and every weapon, setting and decoration is adequate. Your flashlight 
 feature, for example, is an oil lamp that must be refilled after the oil is consumed. The levels 
 have the classical settings of every western movie: the town, the mine, the canyon, the warehouse. 
 The best of all the levels is the third one, where you are in the middle of a moving train and 
 you must get to the locomotive to stop it. But the best part of the atmosphere is the music. Although 
 it was composed ad hoc by LucasArts' main musician, Clint Bajakian, finishing the intro is enough 
 for you to feel that you are not playing any game at all, but watching one of those spaghetti westerns 
 by Sergio Leone starring Clint Eastwood and scored by Ennio Morricone (as a matter of fact, the 
 difficulty levels in which you may choose to play this game are called The Good, The Bad, and The 
 Ugly) .
  But this game is not only cinematics. The level design is brilliant. Levels are huge, and they 
 are full of evil guys to kill and clever puzzles to resolve. One thing to praise about them is 
 the level of realism. Evil guys will duck or cover behind a column. If you shoot a bullet in order 
 to hit someone at the other end of the screen, you will have to aim a little bit higher in order 
 to compensate the gravity action (yes, bullets fall; they don't travel miles in a straight line) . 
 If they hit an object like the ground or a kettle, the object reacts realistically to the impact. 
 Levels are finished not by pushing a button on the wall, but actually killing on a duel one boss 
 of the band of the evil rail contractor. Although you can carry a huge amount of ammo, your weapons 
 behave realistically: you can't simply put 200 bullets on your pistol and shoot them in a row. 
 You must load only 12 at a time, and you must reload your pistol after the clip is completely shot. 
 And reloading takes time: you character must actually open the weapon and load a bullet, a shell 
 at a time. And, if you're playing in higher levels of difficulty, one accurate shot from the enemy 
 is enough to kill you, even if you have your health at maximum. Just like real life. This level 
 of realism is a standard for shooters nowadays, sure; but this wasn't true on 1996.
  Outlaws also has replayability value. Playing the game in a higher difficulty level doesn't only 
 increase the overall realism of the game or the bad attitude of the foes. It also increase the 
 amount of puzzles you must solve in order to beat the level. A key that on a easier difficulty 
 could be found in the middle of the street, on a higher level could be well hidden and you would 
 be forced to resolve a lot of puzzles before you can reach it. And the game doesn't have only one 
 single player feature. It has two. After you finish the main campaign by rescuing your daughter, 
 you can try the Historical Scenarios feature. This is like another campaign, but harder. On it, 
 you must complete a series of levels in no particular order, where you must terminate some famous 
 criminals in order to climb ranks until you reach the Sheriff star. The problem is that Historical 
 Scenarios adds civilians, and you cannot let them die on a skirmish. Kill yourself one civilian, 
 and it's over for you.
  What are you waiting for? This game is really a gem, no matter from where you look at it; and the 
 recent Activision's Gun doesn't have anything to envy LucasArts' Outlaws. Get it, and enjoy!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: osmanbenimadim
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 22, 2005 11:29 am PT
Review:  I just remember the good-old days.. We would get together with several friends and play this game.. 
 I remember that, none of us had passed the 4th level. It was ridicilous.
  
  But It was the game of my life.. A classic.. It can't be compared to games being released nowadays, 
 but it was something different. Although the graphics weren't so realistic, I couldn't stop playing 
 this game over and over and over again. I don't know what was so attractive but certainly it was 
 one of the best games I've played so far.
  
  As far as I remember, there were lots of puzzles in the game. You had to try hard, really hard 
 to figure them out. 
  
  The musics of this game.. It was just amazing! I still remember them. It just pulled you inside 
 the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: morgoth18
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 28, 2005 1:01 pm PT
Review:  i remember playing this with my brother when i was 7 years old. i am now 16 so that was 9 years 
 ago. how time flies. anyway this game is really fun and i think all should try it. now here are 
 some lotr poems.
  
  Upon the hearth the fire is red,
  Beneath the roof there is a bed;
  But not yet weary are our feet,
  Still around the corner we may meet
  A sudden standing stone
 
  That none have seen but we alone.
  Tree and flower and leaf and grass,
  Let them pass! Let them pass!
  Hill and water under sky,
  Pass them by! Pass them by!
  
 
  
  
  Still around the corner there may wait
  A new road or a secret gate,
  And though we pass them by today,
  Tomorrow we may come this way
  And take the hidden paths 
 that run,
  Towards the Moon or to the Sun.
  Apple, thorn and nut and sloe
  Let them go! Let them go!
  Sand and stone and pool and dell,
  Fare you well! Fare you well!
 
  
  
  
  Home is behind, the world ahead,
  And there are many paths to tread
  Through shadows to the edge of night,
  Until the stars are all alight.
  Then world behind and 
 home ahead,
  We'll wander back to home and bed.
  Mist and twilight, cloud and shade,
  Away shall fade! Away shall fade!
  Fire and lamp, and meat and bread,
  And to bed! And then 
 to bed!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: servadac42
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 18, 2005 4:03 pm PT
Review:  An FPS in a Western-setting is something you've always wanted but never really knew you did until 
 this game was announced. The game tells the story of a very thin and tall stylized gunslinger whose 
 name escapes me (it's been a considerable while since I last played the game anyhow) . You know 
 the drill by now, some outlaws - there it is - kills the wife of the character you play as, and 
 they're not satisfied with that since they also kidnap your daughter. If you want to be certain 
 that you piss someone off, this is the perfect way. It's also the setup to you walking around various 
 familiar-looking Western-style places and kill an endless amount of bad guys. The areas you visit, 
 like towns and canyons look and feel like they're straight from any classic Spaghetti-Western movie. 
 What the game does best is create a sort of atmosphere of being in the old West that is truly brilliant 
 and very immersive. Sound effects are great and the music is awesome and also sounds like the music 
 composed by Ennio Morricone for Sergio Leone's Spaghetti-Western films.
  
  The game plays very challenging since you have to be fast on the draw or you'll hit the dust fast. 
 For realism I recommend playing on the hard difficulty setting; on this one you'll only be able 
 to take about two or three shots before you die. The weapons feel very intuitive and there is no 
 stepladder feeling to them as you progress - like usually is the case with FPS-games, since you 
 can use the revolver you start with all the way through the game without it being too weak. The 
 graphics are really nice and have a cartoonish style to them that people will probably either hate 
 or love like was the case with Zelda: Wind Waker's graphics. Fans of FPS's and Westerns will probably 
 enjoy Outlaws immensely. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
