-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Out of the Park Baseball 5
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sports/outoftheparkbaseball5/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 13, 2003
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.5
Critic Score: 8.5, 4 Review (s)
User Score: 8.3, 33 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Out Of The Park Developments
Genre: Baseball Management
Date:     Feb 28, 2003
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Out of the Park Baseball 5 improves on the series and will no doubt keep would-be baseball managers 
 up late many a night. 

 Out of the Park Baseball has been steadily improving since its inception in 1999. The text-based 
 sports management series has grown from meek beginnings as an amateurish online-sales product to 
 a remarkably complex simulation of running a major league baseball franchise. Last year's Out of 
 the Park Baseball 4 was a big step forward, thanks to innumerable new features that added depth 
 in every area. This year's game is even more of an evolution. Although the game is still only available 
 online from .400 Software Studios, it is as professional as anything you can buy in a retail store. 
 And playing it runs a close second to getting the job of your dreams in the big leagues.       
     Revamped graphics include colorful interface skins.    

  Basics of the new game remain rooted in familiar, well-established mechanics. As in previous releases 
 in the series, in Out of the Park 5, you take over the general manager's job with the pro ball 
 club of your choice. Every detail of club operations is under your direction, both on the field 
 and in the boardroom. Players are signed, lineups are set, pitching rotations are tweaked, tickets 
 are priced, and so on. Careers stretch over decades, so you can pursue a dynasty to the end of 
 the 21st century and beyond. You can play against cutthroat computer competition or play multiplayer 
 games against other human general managers, thanks to the game's exhaustive support for online 
 leagues. In any case, Out of the Park 5 simulates each game in great detail.   

  The new game also has many new features. Every menu has been dressed up to provide the user with 
 more to look at than fonts and columns of numbers. For instance, you can customize your interface 
 with multiple skins. And while every page is wallpapered with words and statistics, the use of 
 different colors makes it a snap to sort through the data. Multicolored bars to indicate pitching, 
 batting, and running ratings and player photo and logo boxes further jazz up what could have been 
 dreary catalogs of facts and figures. Greatly improved audio effects add more elegance. A futuristic 
 whoosh accompanies the opening of every drop-down menu, and you can hear the roar of the crowd, 
 the crack of the bat, and the bellowing of umpires in play-by-play mode.           A new option 
 lets you roleplay a manager persona.    

  Where the first four editions of Out of the Park 5 were plagued with minor production problems, 
 the new version is much more refined. Even the scouting reports reflect this, as they now feature 
 diverse phrases and come free of the typos and grammar mistakes that were common in the past. Every 
 player comes with a full bio, detailing everything from an outfielder's "slow as molasses" speed 
 to a pitcher's ability to "simply blow batters away." And there is a greater variety of comments 
 in the internal e-mail system used to notify you of such things as trade offers and player demands. 
   

  Out of the Park 5 expands on nearly every aspect of the series. The new game provides much more 
 information than previous versions, so you feel more in control of your club. Stat categories now 
 encompass the invaluable WHIP rating for pitchers, and the opening player info screens provide 
 all of the pertinent ratings and numbers. Players are rated with stars for the first time, making 
 it easier to separate all-stars from duds. Team roster screens contain more factoids than before, 
 encompassing a dozen stat categories showing your numbers and listing where you rank in the league. 
 HTML reports can be generated on the fly in all sorts of areas, letting you pull up one-page overviews 
 of such things as a player's entire career or the contract and salary status of everyone in your 
 organization. Player names are hyperlinked on the majority of screens, so you can access all of 
 this knowledge with a minimum of clicks.     

 Out of the Park 5 is also a better game in other areas. The new game has improved artificial intelligence, 
 so you'll find yourself competing against tougher rival managers for star players. It's also impossible 
 to dump a big contract unless the player is worth every cent. Players are smarter too, particularly 
 when their contracts expire, and now they take advantage of the 30-day free-agency period. Wars 
 are common for even middle-of-the-road talent, and each signing carries with it more consequences 
 than it did last year, as players can now refuse demotions to the minors. Salary arbitration completes 
 the picture.           Play-by-play has been beefed up with better commentary and sound effects. 
    

  The game is also more challenging because it has even more randomness; player development has never 
 been a sure thing in the series, but in Out of the Park 5, ratings rise and fall more precipitously 
 than before, often over the course of a single season. Youngsters turn into busts overnight and 
 also-rans develop into major leaguers. This makes signing older players a risky proposition because 
 their skills might collapse months after inking a big-money deal. This is a welcome change, but 
 it can sometimes happen too frequently. Players also break down more than they did before. Injuries 
 are much more common, especially to pitchers, although they aren't so frequent as to be unrealistic. 
   

  If all this isn't enough, you can make your own career unpredictable by turning on the new manager 
 mode. Here you sign a contract with a team owner and must perform up to expectations or be handed 
 your walking papers. The option adds tension because you know that your job is on the line with 
 every win or loss, but .400 Software went a bit too far with role-playing elements like diary entries 
 detailing your dating endeavors. Being able to meet and marry women isn't so bad as a frill, although 
 the high-school-girl quality of the text -- examples include "I met this lady, her name is Dabney. 
 I'm going to spend some time with her..." and "I broke up with Dabney today. I just didn't like 
 her anymore!" -- makes the whole thing laughable.           Menus give you more information in an 
 attractive format.    

  Unfortunately, Out of the Park 5 does suffer from a few technical issues. For instance, it's slower 
 than its predecessor. Simming games, saving and loading leagues, and just about everything else 
 takes much longer than it did in the previous game. The game also has a few bugs in some of its 
 features, like salary arbitration, that cause Direct3D issues with certain video cards, which forced 
 the release of a comprehensive patch within a week of the game going on sale. And some of the information 
 screens are so crammed with data that you risk eyestrain by playing the game at desktop resolutions 
 above 1024x768. As handy as it is to have so much info on one screen, it's of dubious benefit when 
 you have to squint to see it all.   

  But these are minor imperfections in an otherwise engrossing game. Anyone who counts down the minutes 
 until opening day would be well advised to make the wait a little less arduous by starting a personal 
 major league circuit with this terrific game. Out of the Park Baseball 5 improves on the series 
 and will no doubt keep would-be baseball managers up late many a night.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (0 Reviews)
-------------------------------------------------
