-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Out of the Park Baseball 4
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sports/outoftheparkbaseball4/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 15, 2002
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.4
Critic Score: 8.6, 10 Review (s)
User Score: 7.4, 12 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Out Of The Park Developments
Genre: Baseball Sim
Date:     Feb 28, 2002

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The game is a remarkable simulation of running a big-league franchise from the front office to the 
 field. 

 Slowly but surely, the Out of the Park Baseball series is moving into Championship Manager territory. 
 Fans of the UK's legendary soccer management simulation know that that's no small accomplishment. 
 One of the best-selling game series in Europe over the past decade, the Championship Manager line 
 has captured the imagination of millions, set new standards for sports sims, and probably even 
 broken up more than a few marriages along the way. Games just don't get more addictive.        
    Information is right at your fingertips when manually playing games.    

  Out of the Park Baseball 4 isn't quite at that stage yet. But the big-league management series 
 is getting there, judging by the steady progress made with each new edition. One-man design team 
 Markus Heinsohn has been fine-tuning his approach to provide a game that is more realistic in every 
 area. Most of these improvements are of the minor variety, although they add up to an impressive 
 overhaul that affects all aspects of the gameplay for the better. While a few omissions and some 
 design oddities keep this one out of Cooperstown, there is no better sports management sim on this 
 side of the Atlantic. Mind you, it is only available online at the  official Web site .   

  What makes Out of the Park Baseball 4 so good is its sweeping focus. While rival baseball management 
 series like Diamond Mind and APBA Baseball for Windows are fixated on a single season, Heinsohn's 
 game lets you control teams over multiple years. You can take over the front office of your choice 
 at virtually any point in baseball history and continue for as many seasons as you like. Accurate 
 historical numbers are provided by an importer that adjusts player ratings for the time period 
 selected. For instance, if you want to experience the dead ball era, just dial the beginning of 
 your career back a hundred years. Authentic rosters can be downloaded using files from  The Baseball 
 Archive , a free online resource with player information going back to 1871.   

  There is a lot here even if you're not a historical baseball buff. You can play in single or multiple 
 season mode, with either the default league setup currently used by Major League Baseball or an 
 arrangement of your own using up to 40 teams in as many as two leagues with six divisions. Human 
 players can take the reins of any number of the teams in a league, both on a single machine and 
 via the Net. Online play, first offered in last year's edition of the game, remains a strong attraction. 
 It is similar in feel to the fantasy leagues offered by ESPN. com but with much more interactivity 
 and the welcome absence of subscription fees. As a result, hard-core baseball fans can really lose 
 themselves. It's even easier for commissioners this year, thanks to a new FTP option that permits 
 them to update online leagues in a single step.           New character attributes give your scout 
 more to work with.    

  The gameplay is true to life from the very beginning. You start from scratch with an off-season 
 signing period in which you compete for coaches and scouts in a bidding war. The competition is 
 cutthroat, and you typically have just one chance at the better people available. Bid high, since 
 you can't really pay too much for the good coaches needed to develop players and the good scouting 
 director required to obtain accurate assessments of players. Scrape the bottom of the barrel and 
 your prospects won't develop on the farm. Even worse, you could wind up with a half-witted head 
 scout who thinks that everyone is surefire pro material. Since much of your success depends on 
 off-season drafting and trading and a 30-day free-agent signing auction, this can be disastrous. 
 Still, the possibility that you're not getting the complete story adds a welcome dimension to the 
 gameplay. Instead of being an omniscient god, you're an all-too-human boss delegating authority 
 to underlings who sometimes don't know what they're doing.   

  Even when you do have the right people in the right jobs, players can still cause problems. In 
 addition to the traditional statistical categories and skill ratings, each player is given ratings 
 in six character attributes: loyalty, needs winning team, team leader ability, clutch performance, 
 consistency, injury rating. Some of these characteristics are fairly straightforward. Someone with 
 poor loyalty will leave for the first team to offer him more money, and someone who doesn't do 
 well in the clutch can't be expected to contribute a game-winning RBI in the bottom of the ninth. 
 Others lead to uncertain consequences. Wanting to play for a winner inspires a player in good times 
 and brings him down in bad times, while a player with top leadership abilities might run into a 
 "too many cooks" conflict on some teams. The result could be spending too much of your precious 
 budget money on a player who has the right numbers but is still the wrong fit for your club. All 
 in all, you're given a lot to think about. Much more than simple number crunching is required to 
 assemble a winning team.    

 Fortunately, you're given a lot of information to use in judging players. The menu screens are thorough 
 and professionally designed, though they're somewhat lacking in modern amenities like hotkeys and 
 a back button. All the relevant statistical data is available on demand. The main roster screen 
 for each club contains a wealth of intelligence, including the team leaders in every major statistical 
 category, the stats of all active players in the organization from the big club to the "A" ball 
 farm team, lists of who's hot and who's not, and even the best line of the past seven days. Single 
 clicks on the main menu bar take you to separate screens where you can tinker with the lineup and 
 starting rotation, propose deals or place players on the trading block, fire and hire coaches and 
 scouts, check out team news, and play with finances, which includes the new ability to schedule 
 promotion days (bobblehead dolls, anyone?) .           Trade offers arrive via the in-game e-mail 
 system.    

  A new e-mail system also helps keep you in the know. It relays trade offers from other teams, reminders 
 from players about their contract status, suggestions from minor league managers on who should 
 be promoted, and even gripes from disgruntled players issuing trade demands. Much of the complexity 
 involved in operating a professional ball club has been broken down into component parts, allowing 
 you to run things like a grizzled boardroom veteran in no time. It also lets you sidestep a lot 
 of chores that could have dragged the game into micromanagement land.   

  Games can be simmed individually or in day-, week-, or season-long chunks. Simulation speed is 
 nearly instantaneous for single contests, and an average computer can whir through an entire simmed 
 season in under 10 minutes. Games can also be played manually. This is handled via another clean 
 and easy-to-use interface that lets you take on the full range of offensive and defensive bench-boss 
 duties. You make a managerial decision for every at bat. Hitters are told to swing away, bunt for 
 hit, play the hit-and-run, and so on, while pitchers are instructed to go after an opponent, pitch 
 away from him, or hand out an intentional walk. Defensive positioning is also an option in the 
 latter case. How each at bat turns out is depicted in a static picture of a ballpark and described 
 in a text window directly beneath it. Playing a game is much like reading the transcript of a radio 
 broadcast, albeit one in which you have a say over the outcome. Statistical results seem right 
 on target. Everything plays out like you expect -- including the actions of the opposing manager -- with 
 no wonky results that shake your suspension of disbelief. A few frills even bolster the illusion. 
 Games take the weather into account, for example. Cold, drizzly days lead to players slipping on 
 the wet turf and committing errors. Arguing calls is possible as well, although this can lead to 
 ejection -- which means you'll lose control over the rest of the game.   

  As mentioned earlier, there are some problems that keep Out of the Park Baseball 4 from attaining 
 perfection. The biggest obstacle keeping it from being accepted by a mainstream audience is the 
 absence of the Major League Baseball and Major League Baseball Players Association licenses. Although 
 there are plenty of fan Web sites out there with official rosters, team names, and logos for download, 
 the game comes with fictional players and teams. Some gameplay issues are also evident. Most notably, 
 there is no sound. Purists would claim that audio isn't necessary in a game such as this, but anyone 
 who's experienced APBA Baseball for Windows with Ernie Harwell's Broadcast Blast knows how much 
 this feature adds to replaying games. Even some generic cheers and boos at appropriate times would 
 be an improvement over complete silence. Making matters worse is the subpar quality of the textual 
 play-by-play. Lines are awkward and frequently repeated, there are a few typos, and there is too 
 much reliance on Scooter Rizutto-style catchphrases. Reading "Holy cow!" or "Oh man!" once an inning 
 is a bit much.           Each club's main roster screen offers a wealth of information.    

  Just a few complaints can be lodged about the actual game mechanics. The game occasionally crashes, 
 apparently prompted by odd situations while manually playing games (wild pitches dropped us to 
 the desktop three times) . Heinsohn has yet to implement a pitch-by-pitch mode, so hard-core baseball 
 season replayers will have to stick with the likes of Diamond Mind Baseball 8.0 for the time being. 
 This, of course, limits strategic options while manually playing games, particularly in regard 
 to setting up the hit-and-run and stealing, as you're simply given a count for each at bat and 
 then shown what happens. The contracts of managers and coaches cannot be renewed like player contracts, 
 which is particular annoying considering that every third-rate utility man on your roster with 
 an expiring deal sends you e-mail about re-upping throughout the season. Last but not quite least, 
 the game doesn't run quite properly in Windows. Unless you decrease the size of the task bar, the 
 top menu is partially obscured at all times. This has no effect on gameplay, although the obvious 
 flaw will bother the more aesthetically minded.   

  These rough edges are not enough to cause any disenchantment with Out of the Park Baseball 4 as 
 a whole. The game is a remarkable simulation of running a big-league franchise from the front office 
 to the field, with statistics generation, player movement, and fiscal considerations that are realistic 
 in every way. Addictive as a single-player experience and flat-out irresistible while playing in 
 an online league, it shouldn't be missed.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (0 Reviews)
-------------------------------------------------
