-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Out of the Park Baseball 9
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sports/outoftheparkbaseball9/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 One of the most in-depth sports management simulations ever made.
 Authentic team and player management.
 Great balance between crunching numbers and dealing with players as real people.
 Outstanding support for online leagues.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Not a whole lot here that could be categorized as brand new.
 A few realism issues with the current major league rosters.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jul 25, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.5
Critic Score: 8.2, 5 Review (s)
User Score: 6.6, 75 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Out Of The Park Developments
Genre: Baseball Management
Date:     Jun 1, 2008
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Out of the Park Baseball 9 doesn't add a lot to an already fantastic formula, but a host of small 
 refinements make it the best game in the history of the franchise. 

  For a game franchise in transition, Out of the Park Baseball 9 is incredibly well polished. The 
 baseball management simulation series from one-man development team Markus Heinsohn may have just 
 gone through a couple of tumultuous years due to being acquired and then dropped by the U. K. soccer-game 
 masterminds at Sports Interactive, but you would never know it by the latest addition to the family. 
 This edition of the game might just be the best yet, thanks to quicker sim times, the addition 
 of major league players, and some small refinements that improve the interface. It remains a little 
 too hardcore and stat-heavy for anyone who doesn't have aspirations to be the next Bill James, 
 although the game is nearly perfect for bleacher creatures who have noggins for numbers.  

           As incredible as it may seem, this deal is chump change compared to A-Rod's last contract. 

  Statisticphobes shouldn't be scared off, though. While you need an affinity for baseball stats 
 to really appreciate the game, the core of the game is all about indulging your inner Steinbrenner 
 and taking total control over the operations of a big-league baseball franchise. You oversee everything 
 from the top down: signing free agents, trading clubhouse troublemakers out of town, inking stars 
 to contract extensions, setting the daily lineups, organizing the starting pitching rotation/bullpen 
 assignments, promoting/demoting players in the minors, and even deciding on an average ticket price. 
 Seasons progress in a turn-based manner, and you can manually sim each game as the dugout bench 
 boss, auto-sim one day at a time, or go for a big-picture approach by simming through whole weeks 
 and months in big chunks. Leagues are just about unlimited in scope. You can play solo running 
 one team, take over all the teams in Commissioner mode, or get into an online league to take on 
 other Branch Rickey wannabes (the multiplayer support is outstanding) . Historical database support 
 and downloadable mods that add the entire major leagues from any point in their history let you 
 start a baseball universe at any time from the formation of the National League in 1871 to present 
 day. You can then continue for unlimited decades, moving through authentic league expansion, team 
 movement, and whatever else baseball has grown through over the years.  

   

  Attention to detail is incredible, which results in an authentic major league baseball feel. Although 
 the game is mostly text-based, with little visual pizzazz aside from player photos and the big-league 
 ballpark depicted on the simulation screen, the atmosphere is so lifelike that you can almost hear 
 the hotdog vendors. Dozens of stat categories are tracked for each player. So you better have a 
 good idea what ERA, OPS, and WHIP stand for before making a challenge for the pennant. However, 
 there is also a strong human element. Players are given role-playing-game-like ratings that involve 
 such personality traits as mood, loyalty, leadership, greed, desire to play for a winner, and so 
 on that affect on-field performance, as well as come into play whenever you talk contracts. Negotiations 
 are about more than number-crunching because you often wind up with pouting wannabes demanding 
 trades if they're riding the pine too often, happy superstars taking hometown discounts on contract 
 extensions, and free agents who simply won't listen to your offers because they don't want to play 
 for your organization. All of these preferences are communicated in plain old English, too, which 
 makes it seem like you're dealing with real people -- not just names and numbers. It might not seem 
 like a big deal, but having A-Rod comment on your smooth negotiation skills while giving him a 
 $120 million extension makes all the difference between playing virtual accounting with baseball 
 stats and feeling like you're actually running a big-league franchise.  

   

  But with all that said, there isn't a whole lot in OOTP9 that is completely new. Although this 
 is a more refined, more complete version of the game than its OOTP 2007 predecessor, it doesn't 
 bring any showstopping new features to the table. Streamlining is really the big focus of the design. 
 Gone is the cumbersome Sports Interactive scouting system with scouts all over the world, replaced 
 by a single head scout who does everything. There's also an animated baseball on the game-sim screen 
 so you can watch plays develop. The biggest improvement is probably the simulation speed, which 
 has been dramatically ramped up across the board without any loss in realism. You can now rip through 
 a full season in under half an hour of straight simming and even zip through a year in no more 
 than a couple of hours as a more hands-on manager simming one week at a time. This is a huge plus 
 when compared to the last two OOTP games and arguably worth the price of the new game all by itself. 
 Only an occasional stutter remains to slow you down, such as the near eternity it takes to load 
 up the player award voting screen at the end of a season.  

  Built-in major league rosters are the other top selling point because previous OOTP games only 
 came with fictional players. Being able to send real contemporary MLB stars, such as Magglio Ordonez, 
 Roy Halladay, and Derek Jeter, onto the diamond is a much more attractive option than having to 
 deal with a bunch of anonymous Joe Sixpacks. But these rosters do need to be tweaked somewhat. 
 Bizarrely poor performances from some of the best in the game are too common. In a year as the 
 Yankees, for example, A-Rod hit just .243 and counted a measly 30 homers (his lowest since 1997) , 
 while 2007 19-game winner Chien-Ming Wang finished 6-10 with a 5.51 ERA. Most players are pretty 
 much dead-on, although this quirkiness is pronounced enough to apparently produce some weird contracts. 
 Bona fide big-money superstars sometimes settle for ridiculously low deals, while average Joes 
 wind up making huge bucks. So the Yankees can cheap out when re-upping Hall of Fame closer Mariano 
 Rivera for $3 million a year on a three-year pact (although maybe this was just a huge hometown 
 discount for a longtime Yankee who didn't want to leave town) , yet a light-hitting infielder like 
 Chone Figgins somehow gets the Anaheim Angels to give him $10 million a season for three years. 

           Most of the additions in OOTP involve minor tweaks, such as the new animated baseball 
 in the game-sim screen.      

  Computer GMs will also lay down big money on past-it stars like Barry Bonds and Roger Clemens. 
 In the first season we simmed, Bonds somehow got a three-year-deal worth $7.7 million a year from 
 the Cincinnati Reds. Priorities seem to be skewed toward these established diamond dogs as well. 
 While teams are making outrageous deals for washed-up old guys in their 40s, they're also dropping 
 five-star prospects in their early 20s for no reason whatsoever. If you keep an eye on the waiver 
 wire, you'll eventually scoop up enough talent to fill out a pitching staff. In our first season, 
 the Yankees managed to put together the best middle relief in baseball due solely to a pair of 
 killer young waiver pick-ups and score a 21-year-old four-and-a-half star starting pitcher who 
 tore up AA ball.  

   

  At least the fictional and historical leagues aren't burdened with this sort of baggage. Starting 
 with completely made-up rosters or going back to a past season seems to result in remarkably accurate 
 player performances based on their skills and stats -- whether you're playing on your own or in an 
 online league. This is particularly noticeable if you go back to the 19th century -- or the dead 
 ball era -- or even the offensively challenged years before the DH was introduced and the mound lowered. 
 Now you can really see how different the game was back then, in terms of such key factors as greater 
 pitcher endurance and fewer runs scored.  

  In a lot of ways, the above criticisms can be set aside as nitpicky. OOTP9 is a superb game -- the 
 closest thing we've got to major league baseball in a box. A few wrinkles need to be ironed out 
 and owners of the previous game in the series might be a bit disappointed by the absence of prominent 
 new features, but there is no doubt that this is the best baseball management sim out there for 
 serious followers of the national pastime.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (2 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Madalan
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 25, 2008 6:46 pm PT
Review:  I'm a picky numbers kind of guy; if I play a game where numbers seemingly are most important .. 
 how may a player age 33 have a 4-Star rating for "Potential?" Picky? For me it alters the perspective 
 on values; how does one view a 19 year old with the 4-Stars listed under "Potential?"
  
  The game is a statistical-based game where if you believe the hype and marketing is this factor 
 then not a major flaw? I found myself moving on to other entertainment, but not before discussing 
 this with the OOPS people. I asked them the question posed above and received a refund instead 
 of an answer. 
  
  Two years later, yesterday, I downloaded the newest version of OOPS only to discover that nothing 
 has changed, many over 33 year old players have darn good "Potential" with plenty in the 3 and 
 4 Star category. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mattsnibbs
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 3, 2008 11:35 pm PT
Review:  Let's face it. Baseball fans love their stats. I admit I love cricket but had I been born in the 
 US I would be a baseball fan for the same reason I'm a cricket fan: the stats.
  
  For that reason alone OOPB will satisfy almost any baseball fan. You can look at averages, career 
 and season, slugging percentages, steal sucesses and percentages. And that's before you even look 
 at the players attributes (both potential and current) .
  
  There are many leagues you can manage in (although MLB is the most common choice) . You can start 
 in the R Leagues and work your way up to the big time although you can have a very average season 
 i. e. less than 50-50 ball and still manage to get offered a job in the next tier of leagues, which 
 is a bit of a gripe.
  
  There's no denying that there is a huge amount of info at your fingertips and many different strategies 
 you can employ. You can preset for simming the games or you can take control of the game and set 
 you strategies on the fly.
  
  As a beginner there is a heap you can get lost in and knowing a bit about baseball (sadly I don't 
 know much at all) would stand you in good stead, but there is the option of buying up all the big 
 names and simming the season to see how they fare.
  
  While many might find this hard to get into many will love this game. With the amount of depth 
 here the die hard baseball fans will be kept happy long after the world series is over. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
