-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Overlord
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/overlord/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Good-looking high-fantasy setting.
 Watching minions wreak havoc is fun.
 Uniquely blends RPG and RTS conventions.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Occasional objectives that require more speed and precision than the controls can muster.
 Could stand to be a little more evil.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun 28, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.5
Critic Score: 8.1, 25 Review (s)
User Score: 7.8, 4,061 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Codemasters
Developer: Triumph Studios
Genre: Fantasy Action Adventure
Date:     Jun 26, 2007 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The pure joy of commanding a small army of malicious minions more than makes up for Overlord's minor 
 shortcomings. 

  While most genre-bending games are content to dissemble just one convention, Overlord takes on 
 two. Not only does it attempt to subvert how you perceive Tolkien-esque high fantasy by essentially 
 putting you in the role of the dark lord Sauron, but the game also plays like a real-time strategy 
 game masquerading as a third-person action RPG. It's all very promising, since real-time strategy 
 games can be such slaves to convention; and it's rare for a game to focus so exclusively on encouraging 
 you to explore your darker impulses. Though the game's controls take some getting used to, and 
 its exploration of evil could use a little more bite, it's generally pretty successful.  

           You know what they say, behind every successful overlord is a hideous pack of insane gremlins. 

  As the titular overlord, you begin the game having just been resurrected by your minions, and your 
 dark kingdom is in shambles. Your dark tower is a ruinous mess, you've got but a handful of subservient 
 followers, and the local villagers are cowering in fear of forces  other  than yourself. This simply 
 will not do. Powerful practitioner of might and magic that you are, you could go the hands-on route 
 in rebuilding your tower and crushing the wills of the peasants; but then, what's the point of 
 being the overlord if you've got to do everything yourself?  

  This is why you have minions, the scampering, mischievous little gremlins that are the heart and 
 soul of Overlord. Though the game presents itself as a third-person action RPG where you control 
 the overlord, it's more of a real-time strategy game. Either way, it's a very good-looking game, 
 with the kinds of soft lighting and quaint high-fantasy settings that characterized Fable, though 
 once you get past the aesthetics, it proves to have more in common with Nintendo's Pikmin games 
 for the GameCube. Though you can perform some basic magic and melee attacks as the overlord, it's 
 your minions that will be doing all your heavy lifting. The control scheme for Overlord is a little 
 unusual, since you'll be controlling the overlord's movement as well as the minions'. The PC version 
 offers both mouse-and-keyboard and dual-analog gamepad control schemes, and they're both totally 
 useable, but they've both got their fair share of quirks.  

  Thankfully, the minions are generally pretty smart. They'll follow you around diligently, and if 
 you take a route that they're unable to follow you on, they'll either stop in their tracks rather 
 than commit hara-kiri, or find an alternate route. You can control your minions' movement directly 
 by sweeping them around using either the right analog stick or the mouse, depending on which control 
 scheme you've chosen. Alternately, you can lock onto certain objects, or simply point in a general 
 direction, and your minions will head over there and perform the appropriate action. If the object 
 can be smashed, they'll smash it. If it's an enemy, they'll attack it. If it's something they can 
 use, such as a weapon or a piece of armor, they'll equip it. If it's gold, or a potion that restores 
 health or mana, they'll bring it back to you. You'll also find lots of quest-specific items that 
 require a team of minions to carry to specific locations, as well as various path-blocking obstacles. 
 You can also command your minions to stay in a specific position, effectively guarding it.  

  Death doesn't even seem to bother them too much -- nor should it, since they're pretty easy to 
 replace. Every time you kill something in Overlord, be it man or beast, it leaves behind a little 
 piece of life essence, which you can collect and store. For every piece of life essence you have, 
 you can summon another minion, though there's a limit to the number of minions you can have at 
 your command at one time. Simply watching the minions carry out your will can be fun, because you 
 get the sense that they really love their job. They scream and cackle gleefully as they latch onto 
 an enemy, and they beam with pride when they return to you with found treasure. Though you'll hear 
 many of the same exclamations from your minions over and over again, the voice work brings a lot 
 of personality to your swarming horde, and to the game in general. Watching your minions wreak 
 havoc can be so satisfying that it makes up for a lot of the problems that the game develops.  
 

  Overlord starts out strong, and the first few hours offer some light and easy fun as you sweep 
 your horde of minions across the countryside, slaughtering sheep and peasants and pillaging anything 
 that appears even remotely pillageable. There are some RPG trappings to the game, in that you can 
 upgrade or buy new weapons and armor, learn new spells, and increase your capacity for health and 
 mana, as well as the number of minions that you can control at once. Still, the story is pretty 
 linear. You might have more than one quest available to you at a time, but usually you'll find 
 that one of those quests cannot actually be started until you finish another quest. As the shadow 
 you cast over the land continues to grow, you'll face halflings, elves, bloodthirsty unicorns, 
 an undead horde, dwarves, and more. In addition to the all-purpose brown minions you start off 
 with, you'll earn the ability to summon more specialized types of minions. Red minions are fire 
 adept, green minions are impervious to poison and have some minor stealth abilities, and blue minions 
 can travel through water, are strong against magical enemies, and can revive fallen minions.  

 
  The game takes its time introducing the different types of minions, and you'll be several hours 
 into the game before the strategy elements of the game start getting complicated. The tightly designed 
 environments of Overlord are very deliberate in their layout, often requiring you to direct a single 
 type of minion. It's not difficult to alternate between controlling one type of minion and another 
 when you're not under the gun, but there are certainly moments where it'll feel like you're struggling 
 against the controls as you're juggling multiple groups of minions and trying to issue a series 
 of specific commands. Luckily it's not hard to toggle the camera from a behind-the-back third-person 
 perspective to a pulled-back overhead perspective, both of which prove useful in different situations. 
 It's certainly satisfying when you're able to get past one of the game's involved boss fights, 
 even if it's partially out of relief that you won't have to deal with that again.  

            To be fair, this is probably as evil as you can get in a T-rated game.      

  As 
 much as the game likes to cast your character as a ruthless and malevolent overlord who cares for 
 nothing but power and chaos, your capacity for true, genuine evil feels a little limited. Motivations 
 aside, the nature of the quests you take on aren't that different from what a high-fantasy hero 
 would be up to. Yes, you can choose whether certain characters live or die, and there are situations 
 that can be resolved with varying degrees of bloodshed, but the choices you make have little impact 
 on the course of the game. Good and evil are subjective concepts, and if there are no real negative 
 consequences, there's no way to determine if your actions qualify.  

  Overlord is an enjoyably mischievous experience that blends real-time strategy and RPG elements 
 to unique ends. The satisfaction of running amok with your legion of wickedly enthusiastic minions 
 is what makes Overlord worth playing, and it's plenty compensation for controls that you'll occasionally 
 struggle against and the limitations on just how evil you can really be.  

    Editor's note 06/28/07 : GameSpot learned after this review was originally posted that the version 
 of Overlord for the PC sent to us by Codemasters for review purposes was not actually the final 
 version of the game. After testing the retail version of the game, we found that certain statements 
 in the original review regarding the camera control were not accurate. The review was then updated 
 and the score adjusted accordingly. GameSpot regrets the error.      
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (146 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: dgg8768
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 3, 2009 6:28 am PT
Review:  This game is fairly original and that is something I really appreciate about it. You command minions 
 to attack your enemies as required to perform various quests. And your goal is to collect the parts 
 required to build your tower. You can attack a bit but it is generally better to get your minions 
 to do it since there are more of them and you have to go back to the start of the quest if you 
 die. So it is a simple RPG with a twist.
  
  The main fault is the system for creating new minions. Whenever you kill something you gain life 
 force that can be used at temples to create new minions. You have an upper limit to how many minions 
 you can command at once but there does not seem to be any limit on the of life force you can collect 
 to creat new minions.
  
  So I spent much of the game killing creatures simply to gain life force  which is pretty easy 
 and gets boring after a while. There are 4 types of minions and a different life force is needed 
 for each one. Having just played the game for 10 hours at most I'm only up to the second minion 
 type. There is a certain part of the map where I can go to kill the right kind of creatures required 
 to get the life force for this fire-proof minion that is needed to compete certain quests. The 
 minion is a bit weak and dies easily so I need to spend a lot of time collecting lots of life force 
 to be able to create lots of them, since much of the game I am using them to kill enemies, respawning 
 them at a nearby temple, going back to kill more creatures, respawning at the same temple and back 
 and forth like that. It is also a bit of a hassle having to travel to a certain place each time 
 I need to gain more life force for a particular minion type.
  
  A better method would have been to either have an upper limit on the amount of life force you can 
 collect, or better still perhaps, don't have any temples to re-spawn minions at all and just get 
 all your minions back when a quest is completed by going back to the tower (but you only get all 
 your minions back if a quest is completed) . If you die during the quest or wish to abandon it by 
 going back to the tower the killed enemies would respawn but other progress such as opening locked 
 doors would remain. The current system of sacrificing minions to gain health/mana at certain temples 
 could remain but would be more meaningful since the minions would have more value and so it would 
 be a bigger decision ( should I sacrifice minions for more health or mana?)
  
  The problem of wasting time creating life force was compounded by difficulty working out how to 
 control different types of minion separately. I used Xbox 360 controller and the game tells you 
 to press right trigger and B key at the same time to alternate from brown to red minions but I 
 couldn't get this to work and so lost more minions than I should have.
  
  It may sound like I don't like the game but I actually do. I like the graphics, light-hearted nature 
 of it and originality. If the controls were less clunky and the life force system was better it 
 would be worth 8+
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lord_Tigger
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 28, 2008 9:27 pm PT
Review:  It's hard to believe Overlord, from Triumph Studios, has been out for over a year already. It seems 
 like just a few weeks ago I had downloaded the demo and was immediately attracted to the style 
 and gameplay, but had to wait until I upgraded my computer to handle the glossy graphics. I was 
 at Best Buy the other day buying a new antivirus program when I turned to see Overlord on the shelf 
 behind me at $15. I pounced on it likewell like minions on a pumpkin patch, and it's probably 
 one of the smartest gaming buys I've made in a long time.
  
  Overlord is categorized by Gamespot as "Fantasy Action Adventure", and, true to releases in the 
 past year or so, the old genres of "shooter, RTS, TBS, RPG" are starting to blur into each other 
 as gamers are demanding more than cookie-cutter games. Overlord answers that demand with a style 
 all it's own. On the surface it looks, feels, and smells (?) like a standard RPG, with rolling green 
 hills dotted with little villages and peasants troubled by the requisite elves and halflings, etc. 
 There's very little "leveling" to do, however, other than increasing your armor and weaponry stats, 
 and the action is all real-time. You run, bash things, and cast different spells to achieve your 
 goal, so it's an action game, like a third-person shooter, right? Wrong. You follow a story, rescue 
 damsels, fight minotaurs and carnivorous unicorns, so it's an RPG again? Nope.
  
  Enter the minions. You directly control, through precise mouse movements, four different types 
 of demon-like (not necessarily demonic) creatures, not unlike Spielberg's Gremlins but much cuter. 
 They come in brown (grunts) , red (fire archers) , green (assassins) and blue (clerics) , vaguely 
 a play on the four elements. Your minions can perform melee attacks, hurl fireballs, backstab, 
 and perform other feats like healing and absorbing poison, depending on their color. Your minions 
 follow you wherever you go, gleefully cheering you on and performing your wishes without question, 
 even to their own demise. Your mouse controller is context sensitive with the minions in both the 
 terrain and contact with items in the environment. Want to attack something? Select your minion 
 type and push the mouse forward to send your group after the target. Want to loot a nearby hovel? 
 Send your group again and they will crack open any containers near them bringing you gold for upgrades, 
 and automatically upgrading their own armor and weaponry as they come across greater equipment. 
 As time passes, you'll see your minions, particularly the browns, decked out in a delightful mish-mash 
 of different weapons, shiny armor, and helmets made anything from steel pots to chef's hats to 
 jack-o-lanterns. Your minions can go places you cannot reach, and are usually the key to many of 
 the puzzles you come across. Some of the greater monsters and challenges require you to attack 
 with browns, secondary assault with greens, while posting reds at a higher vantage point to rain 
 fire. Sometimes there's only one way to pass the challenge, making the game feel more like a casual 
 puzzle game than a strategy game with RPG elements.
  
  The game world looks and feels like an RPG environment, and much of it is a parody of greater fantasy 
 tales. One of the earlier missions is such a direct jab at J. R. R. Tolkien's Hobbiton, including 
 hovels with round doors, happy feasts and a party tree, that I immediately began destroying everything 
 I could just to get rid of my frustration from playing LotRO. Unicorns are vulgar creatures, elves 
 are whiney Emo woods dwellers, and the peasant classes are just happy to be alive. The artwork, 
 despite heavy influences from every other fantasy game and book out there, is very creative, and 
 each scene and setting looks like an artists rendition rather than the actual game. End bosses 
 and goals fill the screen with color and texture, and crude, bathroom-level humor keeps the setting 
 from becoming too serious. Indeed, everything from bodily functions to clubbing baby sheep is covered 
 in the first few minutes of the game.
  
  A downside is the game world is not open-ended. The missions are set in different parts of the 
 world and you can approach many of them in any order you wish, but so many goals can only be achieved 
 with the right kind of minion which, in the first half of the game, to unlock those minions you 
 have to do certain missions first. Pathways, whether in a forest or in a great hall, have forks 
 for choices, but ultimately there's only one way to go, and one way to handle something. Each challenge 
 is more of a puzzle with a set solution rather than an event for you to approach on your own, and 
 after a while you realize this fantasy world is very much on rails and you're just along for the 
 ride.
  
  The graphics are sound and solid with very few glitches and it even runs smoothly on lower-end 
 machines, even if it does look like there is mud all over your screen with the textures faded. 
 The biggest problem I have is, even after the patches were loaded, my minions got stuck in more 
 than one place. Overlord has a terrible saving system in that you'll go a long way into a story 
 arc or down a path toward a goal, and have to start all over if you hit a snag or fail. You can 
 walk back to a portal to your castle at any time, which auto saves the game, then turn around and 
 go back to the area you were working, but that can be time consuming. Add to that a point where 
 your minions just suddenly stop because they wedge themselves against the landscape or a bottleneck 
 in a path, or they block themselves in when they drop an object, and you have to start all over. 
 The game is not the easiest I've played, it takes real effort to reach some goals, and those glitch 
 moments certainly are a buzz kill after accomplishing a feat. Add too that the fact that your minions 
 are loyal to a fault, meaning you can spend hours leveling them up with all sorts of fun armor 
 and weaponry, only to kill every one of them within seconds because you pushed too far with the 
 mouse. Water, fire, and poison kills some of the minions almost on contact, and you can lose your 
 entire horde just by leaning on the mouse too hard, then you can either start over with rookie 
 minions or exit and start the long trek back. A trifle, but it happened to me quite a bit.
  
  Overlord is innovative, creative, humorous, pretty, and a nice challenge. If I had to jam it 
 into a genre, I'd actually stick it in a puzzle category, although it is a step up from Diner Dash 
 or Bejeweled. A little action, a little brain twister, a lot of laughs, Overlord is definitely 
 worth a look. Pick up a copy and see if you can define it for yourself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: herzalot
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 2, 2008 9:23 am PT
Review:  game play [9] : awesome, game play is more than it should be, game play is highly addictive. controlling 
 a lot of minions would be a lot of fun. game play is balanced too. you can fight with your enemy`s 
 as the role of the overlord alone, or you can give this hard mission to your trustworthy minions. controlling 
 the minions is too easy. with holding left mouse button you can send your minions to attack your 
 enemy`s. with holding right mouse button, they will come back to you. see? that wasn`t so hard!
  
  
  graphics [9] : a great world, with a lot of  
 dusk... oh what the hell am I saying? I mean this great world is for you to explore. don`t worry about 
 graphics. they are cool!
  
  
  sounds and musics [8] : there is nothing special about musics. musics are good. ambiance sounds are 
 good too. you can hear birds singing, waters splashing and a lot of other things. the sound of the 
 characters are good. but sound of the gnarl [your advisor in the game] and minions are prefect.
  
  
  value [8/5] : all things in this game are good. story is good too. you know, this game mix`s 
 up RPG, strategy and action adventure genre. this was a true risk. but the developers passed this 
 risk successfully. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigadam94
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 13, 2008 7:05 am PT
Review:  Everybody wants to be an evil overlord who controls his dark minions, and destroys castles and 
 towns.. And this game gives the chance!
  Yeah, it's fun to control a miniature army of these interesting minions..:)
  They destroy everything 
 that they can see, but they listen to your orders. You can take part in fights too, but why? Your 
 dark little f (r) iends will do the dirty job.
  It's just fun to see your little creatures fighting.. They can use anything for a weapon / armor, 
 so don't be surprised if you see your minion's head in a punpkin, and withh a wooden spoon in the 
 hand.. :)
  The control is.. Hmm.. Isn't very easy. Just think about it: You need to control the character 
 and the minions and the same time. And it gets more complicated when you gain more minion-types.. 
 You can learn it, but it isn't easy.
  The graphics is nice, the minions look *cute*, and the overlord looks *evil*.
  
  Overall the 
 game is pretty nice, my only problem was the control.. Give it a try! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snoopyflyfish
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 7, 2008 8:57 am PT
Review:  You've inherited the ruined domain of an evil overlord, and it's on you to rebuild and capture 
 some evil glory. You have a busy day: peasants to slaughter, villages to burn, hopes to dash. There's 
 a baby with some candy that needs taking the next town over. Strap on your gear! Summon your gremlins! 
 Evil is not going to do itself! Next-generation gaming in a twisted fantasy world where players 
 have the choice to be evil... or really evil! Controlling a mysterious figure that has inherited 
 the legacy of the evil, long-dead Overlord, the player emerges, near death, from the ruins of the 
 old Overlord's Dark Tower. Only the player's actions will determine if they will rise to become 
 the new all-powerful Overlord; it's all down to how much of a bad ass they want to be in order 
 to succeed. Overlord's key innovation is the introduction of an array of impish creatures - the 
 Minions. They believe you are the old Overlord reborn and will use their unique skills to fetch, 
 fight and die for you. Throughout the game players will actively control a horde of these gremlin-like 
 critters and they'll follow your every instruction no matter how despotic or, for the Minions, 
 life threatening it is. Overlord offers a wealth of freedom and allows players to experience classic 
 fantasy like never before. Working with the minions, players can loot and pillage their way through 
 the game's world or maybe resist the temptations of evil. In Overlord, player choices truly shape 
 the world. Overlord comes loaded with innovative and compelling game mechanics wrapped in a scenario 
 that's played out with plenty of black humour. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MajinBuXL
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 15, 2008 8:21 pm PT
Review:  Overlord is one of those games that you grab really not knowing what to expect.
  Amazingly enough I picked it up expecting a mediocre game but rather I ended up with a quite amazing 
 experience.
  I love this game first off because it offers incredibly fresh gameplay that never before have I 
 seen on another RPG. I think it could possibly be on the level of Fable if anyone ever tried that 
 out but with more of a tactical approach to the game and a lot more fun added to it.
  I say tactical because you dont just blindly send your minions ahead and get slaughtered, rather 
 you need to plan ahead and put your soliders where they need to be. It really makes the game in 
 my opinion, you actually have to think at what needs to be done, also thanks to the different puzzles 
 in the games since only certain minions can reach certain places and get through certain areas.
 
  I love the idea of customizing stuff in these games aswell. I wont give anything out since it 
 would ruin the fun but a lot of the stuff you're trying to accomplish in the game is related directly 
 with what you can customize.
  Also, i think the controls in this are incredibly well thought of since its very easy to get through 
 the levels even with tons of minions following you. That also, really sells the game in my opinion 
 since you're not so worried about some of your goblins dieing along the way but rather how to get 
 through.
  Overall i think its a great experience, defenetly recommend it to anyone who's looking for something 
 different and/or is a fan of rpgs in general. I think you would enjoy the occasional laugh attached 
 to it too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jim_bo_bo
Rating: 6
Date: May 6, 2008 11:27 pm PT
Review:  Think Pikmin. Now think Fable. Now think Pikable. That should be the title of this game. The elements 
 of having a bunch of multicolored minions all able to do different things for is the jist of this 
 game, combined with the one-button combat system of Fable along with similiar... everything!
  
  Honestly, it's like someone was playing Fable and just LOVED getting evil points. So he decided 
 he would make a game like Fable using the same artstyle, voice-acting, bad use of bloom and sense 
 of humor, only there wouldn't be the choice of good and evil, just the choice of evil. Instead 
 of rewarding you for doing good OR bad things, the game simply rewards you for doing a bunch of 
 bad deeds. Save a village? The game instructs you to kill the villagers cheering for you. (Which, 
 by the way, seems to be using the EXACT same sound as the cheering villagers from Fable!) The only 
 thing visually different from Fable is some upgraded graphics. While less noticable in the environments 
 surrounding someone, the game has quite obviously enhanced the textures and overall detail in the 
 character models. This isn't to say it's at todays standards, it just looks better than Fable is 
 all.
  
  Anyway, the game starts out in a first-person cutscene with a bunch of gremlin-looking creatures 
 (later referred to as "minions" surrounding you. Your visions is gaussion-blurred to the max, and 
 you hear one of the creatures instruct to another to spread acid in his eyes to wake you up. They 
 do so, and your vision clears up. As it goes on, you learn that you're their Overlord and they 
 slightly hint at the fact that your kingdom was destroyed by someone or something and you have 
 to get it back. While they seem to be going for a mysterious setting, it doesn't work, and instead 
 just makes you think you should already know what's going on. After all, everyone working for you 
 knows what's going on, so why shouldn't you? "You" being Overlord. Sorry, that's all you get. No 
 name for you! I guess it sounds better than "Hero"...
  
  Immediately after the opening scene, you are thrown out of into gameplay. The tutorial for the 
 basics of the game follows very quickly, throwing boxes of text that don't pause the game, but 
 are just slapped over the game while you play. This happens constantly for the first 20 or so minutes 
 of the game. It gets annoying quite quickly, especially since they don't go away until you finish 
 what they tell you do, often making you think you're doing it wrong. While things such as "press 
 spacebar to perform an attack" are a bit obvious commands such as "destroy the farm" are more confusing 
 when they just told you before only to smash the pumpkins.
  
  As far as combat goes, you do a very small amount of it yourself. This is where the pikmin element 
 comes into play. Spacebar is to swing your rather large axe and E hurls a fireball while holding 
 SHIFT locks-on to enemies. The lock-on system is bloody awful by the way, and fighting by using 
 spacebar and E is just plain awkward.
  
  You don't seem to be too good in combat, so, as your assumed right-hand man says "Why risk death 
 when you have servants to fight for you?" This may seem like an introduction to a good strategic 
 element, but it really isn't. It just makes the game boring. But try to fight without your minions 
 and you will die very quickly. I promise. It's also very difficult to be strategic about who you 
 attack and with how many, because you seem to have very little control how many rush over to a 
 certain group of enemies. Yes, the enemies are ALWAYS in clusters which does make it a little bit 
 easier, but if one cluster runs over in front of another, your henchmen will just change their 
 mind and go after who ever is nearest. It's a system that doesn't work; plain and simple. 
  
  So basically, you stand out of the playing field and tell your homies to rush after who ever 
 you tell to... or not to They attack and you can choose to help them out, but they don't really 
 need it unless you have a very small amount of helpers. If one dies, it's not a big deal, as you 
 can pull them out of portals that are scattered throughout the unnamed fantasy world of whatsit. 
 You're constantly tripping over these portals (which do have a term but I was too uninterested 
 to listen to) which can make the game way too easy. You don't have an unlimited supply but for 
 every person/creature you kill, you get one minion. You start out with being able to have a maximum 
 of five minions follow you, but in increases to 10 quickly. They should have kept it at 5, because 
 10 is way more than enough.
  
  The voice acting is annoying enough to wish the game was completely subbed, muting the dumb sounds 
 coming from the badly synched lips of each and every character you come across. What really gets 
 me though, is being given tasks by a guy who is always next to you repeating the same lines over 
 and over and over again. It's enough to make you want to mute the game, truly. 
  
  I'm not going to say I played this game for 10+ hours, I played it for about 2, and it was enough 
 to see what needs seeing. It's an utterly mediocre game that isn't even worth of the title "average" 
 as it the bad of the game outways the good quite a lot. The only good thing I can actually think 
 of is the sense of humor, which I liked in Fable, so why wouldn't I like it in Pikable?
  
  Score: 6/10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: alilari
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 18, 2008 8:11 am PT
Review:  Overlord is a story about "evil". Evil is fun to play as. Graphics are good, artistic. Forging 
 and upgrading weapons and armors is great fun! Training your minions is nice to do. Its a funny 
 game, but also fun, it has a unique storyline that not many games have. Watching your minions pillage 
 the villages and towns, terrorizing the citizens, stealing money, doing as you say as soon as you 
 say it is just great and fun to do!
  
  Your tower is the EVIL sanctuary. Where you can decorate what you do with it making is look evil 
 and having servants there makes it look even more realistic. Your weapon can be changed and upgraded 
 using your minions and your gold. 
  
  Choosing to be "EVIL" orEVIL, CORRUPTED" is the main choice of the game. Being evil is just 
 doing what you want, missions and what is important ( Not so much fun in that .) But when you become 
 corrupted, well you must destroy anything you want. Make the peasants worship you, steal the money, 
 and finally ...... kill them. 
  
  Every minions can do something different, but all of them have rapid and quick movement ( So they 
 can do whatever you want faster :P ) Red, brown, green and blue minions are all you have.
  
  
  So the game is basically plain fun. When you have nothing to do just play this game, its 
 worth playing of course ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pharomarc
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 24, 2008 9:19 am PT
Review:  Overlord is a funny and fun game. It is pretty easy to pick up and play. The strategy element is 
 pretty light but addictive. The art design is pretty cool and somewhat reminiscent of fable's style. 
 There were very few hiccups in frame rates and only when you're controlling 30 or more of you minions 
 while fighting a large number of enemies, but those hiccups and rare. Controlling your devoted 
 minions is a blast. Just get them drunk and let them unleash chaos on the unsuspecting masses and 
 your enemies alike. Your minions are absolutely devoted to you; they will gladly jump in a burning 
 house or drown in a lake if you order them too. The AI of the enemies is not the sharpest, but 
 your minions' is O. K, they rarely got stock or did not respond correctly to your commands. did 
 the It is a light hearted game, just fun to play, and now it is selling at discounted prices, is 
 a very good buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: katana18
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 15, 2008 9:36 am PT
Review:  First, let's go through the technical details of the game. Audio and visuals are solid. The graphics 
 are able to be run on high settings with an upper midrange card. The sounds and voice acting are 
 of good quality except certain minor NPCs that sound quite out of place. Overall, there aren't 
 any notable faults in this respect.
  
  Now we take a look at the interface. It actually feels a lot like a console game, but less so than 
 the Gears of War port, which is a good thing. There's not much to fault here either except that 
 there isn't an option to make a name for my first profile, so I was stuck with the profile "New 
 Profile" for the entire game. Not a major flaw, but annoying nonetheless.
  
  At last, we jump into the game and judge how it runs. From the moment you step out of your slumber 
 to the final showdown, everything runs almost perfectly. The only problem is that when you are 
 able to command 35 minions (the maximum number in the game) , you can't help but realise that you 
 can't mobilise your minions quickly enough. In fact, having a fully-equipped force of 20 minions 
 is more strategic than 35, as the extra minions will end up getting in the way or being cannon 
 fodder. Therefore, Overlord loses a little score here.
  
  However, the innovation involved in planning your minion army, as well as equipping yourself with 
 stronger armor & weapons deserve credit. It's definitely a fresh and interesting concept for PC 
 gamers. Plus, there's no bigger reward in the game than to watch your little minions rush to their 
 designated target and cause havoc in every way possible. The strategy element here plays an important 
 role too. Towards the end of the game when you fight bigger and tougher opponents, the game forces 
 you to lead your foes into green minion ambushes. A cheap trick, but one that works and keeps the 
 game fun.
  
  The storyline deserves some merit as well. It's not really an original story, but it could be worse, 
 and at least it's not just another cliche. If you enjoyed Fable, you'll love the surprises Overlord 
 has to offer. Your actions throughout the game will affect the ending you get, so you'll definitely 
 enjoy playing through it a second time. Can't recommend any more than that though.
  
  The weak links in Overlord are few, but obvious, such as the dungeon which has a few problems of 
 its own. But if you're willing to overlook the little things, Overlord will definitely brighten 
 your day.
  
  In conclusion, if you're intrigued by the trailers and previews, you'll definitely enjoy this underrated 
 game. I'm sure everyone can agree with little minions beating an ogre silly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: schorpy1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 22, 2008 4:09 pm PT
Review:  When the first trailers came up, everybody wanted to play this game. Was it worth the wait? 
  
  Triumph studio made a great effort in making an arcade/action game, with quite a few RPG elements, 
 which are not so obvious at first... The storyline you all know.. be evil or really evil; in an 
 amusing way. That's probably the strongest brick in Overlord's wall. The humour, although, sometimes 
 unwanted, breaths some fresh air into somewhat serious gaming. The story is basic: rebuild your 
 tower, defeat your sworn enemies. Shallow at best. The sound is magnificent. Voice acting is at 
 the highest level. The graphics could use some remodelling, but it's enough to make a beautiful, 
 addictive game. Overlord's greatest fallback are it's controls. First of all, they're hard to get 
 used to. And when you do, then come the fast-fingered puzzles. In a split second, you'll be doing 
 a lot more, than you can with your keyboard/gamepad. 
  
  All in all; the game WAS worth the wait. For a genre parody it is better than most of the gamers 
 expected. Worth playing, especially for fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: agux987
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 20, 2008 3:57 am PT
Review:  Well... You definitely have to try this game. It has great graphics, good gameplay, and THE MORE 
 IMPORTANT THING: it's fun and addictive.
  It's a 3rd person strategy game, you'll be playing it for hours.
  You're an overlord, you can 
 give orders to the minions, little monsters similar to the gremlins. Your objective as an overlord 
 is help people, and repair your tower. Your minions will do what you say like attacking enemies, 
 look for gold or potions, and so on. You also can attack, hit enemies with an axe, launch balls 
 of fire. If you can buy this game, you'll really enjoy it.
  
  Well... You definitely have to try this game. It has great graphics, good gameplay, and THE MORE 
 IMPORTANT THING: it's fun and addictive.
  It's a 3rd person strategy game, you'll be playing it for hours.
  You're an overlord, you can 
 give orders to the minions, little monsters similar to the gremlins. Your objective as an overlord 
 is help people, and repair your tower. Your minions will do what you say like attacking enemies, 
 look for gold or potions, and so on. You also can attack, hit enemies with an axe, launch balls 
 of fire. If you can buy this game, you'll really enjoy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talk-Hard
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 6, 2008 6:25 am PT
Review:  Overlord is a game that puts you into the shoes of a very macho man (it looks like a man) with 
 a very impressive armor and a really bad attitude in a land similar to Middle earth. It looks like 
 the heroes of that land have defeated its evil 
  lord and burried him under his tower. But the minions loved him very much and dug him out so there 
 you are, ready to rebuild your tower and spread evil again all across the land.
  The game has two main diffrences compared to other 3D person games. First of all its that you actually 
 get the part of playing the bad guy (even though you'll find out that the good guys are not as 
 good as they look) . Playing the evil guy is an idea not very popular, at least not in a fantasy 
 game. Even in fable, you can be either the good guy or the bad guy, but not in overlord. Here you 
 are to be bad all the way. This game is full of some kind of english humour witch in many cases 
 i find hilarious, especially from the imps. You'll have to play to see it for yourself
  The second main diffrence is the combat system. Yes you do have an axe or a sword (there are weapons 
 like axe, sword, mace) but its actually your imps that do all the dirty work. Yes, werever you 
 go, you are followed by a bunch of small skinny creatures (that look pretty much like gremlins) that 
 walk right behind you in a pyramid formation and they are ready to destroy anything for you as 
 long as you give the command. You start with just a few imps at your command but their number grows 
 stronger as the game continues. You will be able to fight against hobbits, elfs, humans and dwarfs, 
 get into their houses, break everything and make people scare of you.
  You can also upgrade your self with better weapons or even upgrade the weapons that you already 
 have, by using the smelters you find in the game .
  You can make a new body armor as well and increase your health or your mana because an overlord 
 is nothing if he cannot use some magic is he? Also you will be able to upgrade your tower and make 
 it more beautiful, by putting carpets, upgrade your throne put some spikes outside. I never understood 
 why you do this but it looks cool.
  The graphics of this game are nice. Not a masterpiece but they are fairly nice. The overlord is 
 a game of colors and you dont have to see many screenshots to understand this. The graphic optimisation 
 gives a lot of choices so you can play this game on a high tech computer or in an old computer 
 (like a p4 2.4 lets say) but the graphic loss will be obvious.
  the game play is very easy and it wont be a trouble. you walk with the keyboard and the command 
 of imp attack is just a click on the mouse.
  There are some minor disadvantages regarding this game. One of those is that the types of imps 
 are few in number (only 4?) and there are only imps at your disposal. I mean ok, imps are fine, 
 but why not undeads too? or ghosts? or dragons? I mean the game is nice but it had potential to 
 be much better.
  In conclusion i pelieve that Overlord is a very nice game. Anynone who wants to play something 
 diffrent and be the bad guy for a little, will like this game. However never forget that this game 
 is a 3D person and not a dungeon keeper style geme (the only one i recall that gives you the opportunity 
 of beeing the bad guy) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lorddessan91
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 12, 2007 10:41 pm PT
Review:  I just love this game... I had amazing time with it. The game is just perfect, It's something new 
 and original :) The graphics are very smooth and the sound are just right... The minions sound very 
 funny (that's the point) and the jokes are also good. The bosses are made most original, also the 
 enemies, the quests. That game can keep you long time on the computer... The difficulty is just right. Also 
 the story... that fallen Overlord who must have its revenge, you must beat the "good" heroes again 
 and rebuild your tower... That's the point of the story, but it's not so easy as it looks, the game 
 is long and the only morality choice is "to be bad, or very bad". That depends on your corruption. I 
 think everyone must play that game, it's just something new, with new idea. It's also highly addictive 
 and sure worths its play 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zakld
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 12, 2007 8:45 am PT
Review:  
  This is an extremely interesting game. When I started it, I wasn't too sure about it, but good 
 games leave you wanting for more after you finish them. That's why I'm looking forward to the expansion 
 pack.
  
  I will give this game an 8 as it is absolutely worth your time and should absolutely be played 
 as it is fun and takes the stress of shooters away. Each level is different and the storyline is 
 interesting. You can see that work and thought was put into this game and I congratulate those 
 who have made it. 
  
  On the negative side, I have to say that the storyline could have been a bit better, giving you 
 more options to grow. The idea of accessorising your own castle is nice, but it has no effect on 
 the game, so it is a bit of a waste of time. That money is better spent on other things. 
  
  You will also have trouble controlling your minions at all times, but I guess this is inevitable 
 in a game like this so I forgive you for not making the minions instantly responsive to my every 
 command. 
  
  OK, not too go on about it too much, unless you have exceptional games lined up and are waiting 
 to play them, this game is most definetely worth your time and you cannot possibly not enojoy it. 
 
  
  Having said that, I cannot give it more than 8, as there is something missing to pick it up and 
 put on the "Absolutely Amazing" shelf. That something is probably connected with the storyline, 
 which even though is good, it is not too interesting. Also, the castle is a bit of a let down, 
 but I am knit picking now. Don't be put off the game by any of the negative comments as they are 
 minor and only serve to take this excellent game from excellent to amazing. It is worth every penny 
 and it makes me happy to have played it.
  
  
  My marking system is as follows:
  
  10 - Absolute Legend
  9 - Must Be Played
  8 - Excellent and Worth Your Time
  7 - Worth playing 
 if you have nothing else to play
  6 - worh playing if you have nothing to play and are incredbly bored and have not got absolutely 
 anything else to do. (Barely playable/enjoyable) . 
  
  I don't give marks 1-5 as if a game starts sucking I don't finish it, so I only review the games 
 that are barely playable (6) to the absolutely amazingly incredible ones (10) .
  
  I will also probably keep my reviews short as I don't like discovering too much about the gameplay. 
 I only like to give my quick opinion and get on with life.
  
  Best Wishes to everyone,
  
  Zak
  
  (reincarnation) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ezrain
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 8, 2007 11:20 am PT
Review:  Great looking game. Terrific concept. Buggy as all hell. It took me literally 10 minutes before 
 I finally gave up on a broken quest. Whilst I liked the gameplay and the entire concept, the bugs 
 killed it for me. All of the critic's good points are spot on, however. The aforementioned bugs 
 did me in, as well as the intense grind of the levels. It was a fairly simple: send a wall of minions 
 to loot and pillage and generally beat up a small area, have them come back upgraded, and do the 
 whole thing again. I did it with sheep, hobbits, and the occasional human. Fight, loot, return. 
 Fight, loot, return. Wash rinse repeat. A good game to check out, but I did not feel the need to 
 devote any serious time playing it. Good luck! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sNaKeyy
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 7, 2007 2:33 pm PT
Review:  The guyz from Triumph Studios had thinked to something smart. They combined a Action/RPG/RTS game 
 with evil part of games. The idea of the game isn't on the master Overlod, but on the little bastard 
 creatures, the minions. They are four types: Brown (they are the best fighters, fight better than 
 Rocky, lol) , Red (can estinguish fire, can trow fireballs) , Green (can destroy the potions and 
 fight from behind) and finally the Blue (can resurrect other killed minions and can travel through 
 water) . Later in the game, it's kinda difficult to resolve the puzzles, you need to make a tactic 
 before proceeding with your minions.
  The artifacts are very useful. Some of them give you +5 minions to carry on, other give you much 
 health and others some more mana. The graphics are beautiful, with some high system requirements, 
 the game looks wonderful, in a fantasy world with farms, forests, tombs etc. You gotta try this 
 out, if you didn't yet. The biggest problem for Overlord is linearity and the missing map. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redalert2x2
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 24, 2007 11:10 pm PT
Review:  this game is going how you chose your paths to become evil or good.
  and you got small minions under your command and they are funny the pilage and plunder for you 
 and carry everything for you no heavy lifting for a overlord :P exept your armore and wepp ofc 
 :P I my self got 100% evil :P the game is great becuse it isent a always good guy game but you 
 can chose wath to be that make the game great. Peapol are a bit sick of always to be the good guy 
 :P but thise game change it. some bad things are that the game is easy to play true :/ and not 
 so big /cry this is a game you will like if you want rpg/strategy :P need some thinking xD 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sharier
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 23, 2007 7:55 am PT
Review:  The box cover of the wickedly laughing minions was the reason why I wanted to play this game. And 
 when I finally got hold of it, oh, well the minions rule. Playing a bad guy had never been this 
 fun. You play the dark lord, awakened from your demise by your loyal minions. Your goal is simple- 
 to re-establish your domination through many nefarious deeds .
  This is not exactly an action game, neither is this a clear-cut RPG or adventure. Let's say its 
 a mixture of action and RPG, where you would feel like you are roaming around in the world of Fable. 
 I must say I don't like a free-moving camera pushing me inside the game. I feel most comfortable 
 playing in the first person view like Doom. Overlord's camera works like Tomb Raider and it makes 
 my head spin. However unlike TR, this camera has a utility in this game because you control some 
 minions and they are surrounding you all the time.
  It will take some time to feel comfortable with the controls, then again -- the controls are not 
 hard. You just gotta get used to it.
  And I loved the minions. They were just what I expected them to be. Ha ha and he he, and they enjoy 
 carrying out your orders. Just imagine seeing that your minions destroy a pumpkin field and then, 
 in the follow up scenes you see them wearing pumpkin remains on their head. The developer paid 
 attention to the characterisation of the minions -- they were made devilishly cute.
  I highly recommend playing this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: infinite_venom
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 22, 2007 9:44 pm PT
Review:  The game is actually great for me and I enjoyed controlling my minions and sending them to pillage, 
 destroy, or kill certain things. It requires some micromanagement although at least its still easy 
 control them. Some of the problems of the minions is pathfinding. They sometimes just get stuck 
 at certain points like bridges or narrow paths especially when carrying something. The games graphics 
 are also good although not that great. The environment still looks great including the Overlord, 
 peasants, sheep's and other certain things in the game. The only problem is that you can only edit 
 the games settings on the launcher. The game has some nice music and soundtrack during in battles 
 or when your on a certain village. Being able to choose to become a good or bad overlord is great 
 although going to the evil path is somewhat hard as you can only increase your characters corruption 
 by doing certain things such as killing 50 or 100 peasants. There's also the forgery where you 
 can forge your own weapons or armor but your choice is limited. The game has some humor on it although 
 it really isn't that funny. Still, the games great and you should buy it if you enjoy games like 
 this one or the ones with some humor. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kaldoran
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 12, 2007 3:02 am PT
Review:  Overlord
  
  I've been waiting a while for this one and it doesn't dissapoint.
  
  Overlord is not a ground breaking game, but it is a different one and a high quality one at that.
 
  Overlord always seems to remind me of the movie Evolution, Really Funny, but not to be take seriously.
 
  
  Being Bad has always been fun, Dungeon Keeper showed us this, and in Overlord it's still fun, though 
 this game does limit how evil you can be, but you won't really think about it until the end.
  
  Comedic sidekicks are alway fun, and here you can have 40!!
  The game adds a large dose of 
 humor, from slapstick to short quips.
  And all of it fits the games feel perfectly.
  
  The Difficulty in Overlord is a bit on the easy side, but thinking alot is not what Overlord is 
 about, it's about killing, looting &amp; sheep. So this is not an big problem.
  
  Most of Overlord will be spent.... well killing, though with some very light puzzle elements as 
 well. The Story is fun, easy to pick up and for this game type just right. The end does leave you 
 with a bit of, was that it feel.
  
  All in all Overlord is great game and a really fun ride, hop in cause some Choas and then move 
 on to something more serious.
  Overlord's overiding appeal can be sumed up in 4 words.
  YOU HAVE A HORDE!!!
  
  Best Hack and Slash in a long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ssta
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 4, 2007 2:53 am PT
Review:  Overlord was a great game. I've completed it 3 times, because i wanted to see all the endings. 
 ifferent level of curruption, different ending. The first time i did it with percentage of curruption 
 3%, I wanted to be a good overlord, maybe a prince from the tales. I didn't took the evil missteres, 
 for which I missed the most.
  The second time I did it all wrong, from taking the gold to killing 100 peasants. The king's jester 
 yelled Peasant punisher , and finished with level of curruption 60%, and I think it was the maximum. 
 Nevermind that.
  The game had a, can I say, perfect graphics and still didn't chop on my old PC. All of the sounds 
 were good, but I didn't liked the voice of the peasants, they were like from a cartoon with a fairytale.
 
  The main character has a well-placed roll in the game, and he's excelent designed. Oh, the power 
 he represents, his dark tower, his face... and so I put him on my avatar.
  And I don't think that the game is Fantasy Action Adventure , I think it has some elements of an 
 RPG.
  
  Overall: The game worth the money, worth playing. Maybe it's a little boring at the elven forest, 
 but... I did loved it!
  
  And... not forget to mention It has a sick sence of humor. I died of laughing! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FatPipe
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 27, 2007 8:27 am PT
Review:  I played about ten minutes of this game and thought, dear god, did I just waste $50! So I forced 
 myself to keep playing and oddly enough it grew on me.
  
  Graphics: Decent, smooth, no crashes, nothing groundbreaking but camera angles became a little 
 annoying.... ok, quite a bit annoying.
  
  Gameplay: For those of you who played the original Oddworld, this game reminds me of the first 
 time I played that one. It was a really stupid concept, but yet addicting. It takes time to get 
 your minions and upgrading your weapons and armor is pretty lame, but again, for some reason, I 
 kept playing. The gameplay is also not linear and at times did have me running around trying to 
 figure out my next steps... a map or quest guide would have been nice.
  
  Characters: At times I swear I was in some fantasy Shrek world and it was kind of bizarre, yet 
 made the characters likable. Overall: Not much to say here... at a time when some amazing games 
 are coming out this game will probably suffer... but when this hits the bargain bin and you have 
 nothing to play, this makes for a great weekend of brainless gaming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: templargunman
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 26, 2007 7:29 pm PT
Review:  Overlord was one of my favorites of my recent games, I finished after figuring out how to use the 
 advanced combat maneuvers, which didn't become necessary till the end, where you must trap a person 
 and take her to your tower. The game allows large amounts of gameplay as you explore a world where 
 you train your little minions into fearsome creatures with powerful weapons, but you don't need 
 these upgrades, thankfully, because your minions die by the hundredfold. My only complaint is that 
 the combat requires masterful control of the mouse, and the ability to keep your attention focused 
 in all places, AND the ability to calculate your opponents' moves before they make them. This becomes 
 easy with time, but it requires a bit to get used to it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ianai
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 26, 2007 10:57 am PT
Review:  I just finished this game last night, and all in all I found it to be an outstanding game. It was 
 a refreshing change for me, just simple fun. Not a lot to keep track of, nothing overly difficult, 
 just a devastating walk in the park. One of the things I actually loved about Overlord is that 
 I wasn't overly addicted to it. I'd play every day when I got home from work for a couple of hours 
 tops, and I'd be content. I couldn't wait to play as the end of my work day approached, so I was 
 definitely hooked but it didn't run my life for months on end in the manner of Oblivion or other 
 such games. I think now that all is said and done, I'd recommend this to just about anyone. I've 
 already purchased it for my cousin on the 360, and several of my friends have picked it up after 
 a taste at my house as its just good old fashioned fun. Something sorely lacking in PC gaming. 
 As for the control issues cited in the Gamespot review, I used my mouse and keyboard and really 
 didn't have any trouble at all. I've only played a tad with a gamepad, once on my GF's PC and another 
 on my cousin's Xbox and didn't find it to be too bad but definitely preferred the good old mouse/keyboard 
 combo. I did have trouble on occasion with my minions getting stuck in sweep mode and was never 
 able to figure out a consistent way to break the mode and recall them, but in the lone instance 
 that this actually cost me dearly in terms of minion lives, I just exited and started the level 
 over. I gave Overlord an 8.5 as it is truly the type of game I miss being a PC Gamer. Those silly, 
 fun console games that just rarely show up for us. Pick up a copy, Xbox or PC. I think you'll find 
 the release well worth the expense. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tabernac
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 23, 2007 1:06 pm PT
Review:  In Overlord you get to play an evil (as much as you want to be) character that has the ultimate 
 control over various kinds of minions. You will have to get those minions to perform various tasks, 
 including fighting, in order to solve quests that you can get by roaming the different worlds. 
 Different types of minions have different abilities so you can pick the right minions for the job. 
 On your way to becoming the ultimate evil ruler, you will go through boss fights and the collection 
 of various items in order to redecorate your run down castle. Other than slightly awkward controls, 
 the game looks good and is a nice and original change from all the other Diablo wanna be. Although 
 not as intricate as Sacrifice and B&amp; W, some strategy will be required to take down some enemies 
 and solve some quests. Overall a great game well worth picking up for an entertaining and pleasant 
 gaming experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mcsilence
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 17, 2007 4:49 pm PT
Review:  the game is a classic even with the dodgy control system .it could of been one of the alltime classics 
 if they could of just sorted the controls. it is as if they have got 90% of the game done , then 
 run out of money to complete it and tagged on a control system from a old atari , that said .the 
 game is one of the best i have played for a long time . there is a great deal of satisfaction to 
 be had by sending your minions out to destroy everything in there path. the game is story led with 
 your choices effecting the each chapter of the game. the game play is good although not unique fans 
 of the dungeon master games will find this very familiar (a vast improvement though) . all in all 
 i would recommend this game but be prepared to swear at your pc as you try to get your minions 
 to do even the simplest of tasks with the limited control system on offer
  
  i put the difficulty rating at very hard as there is parts where the controls will not let you 
 do what needs done to complete the level , expect to do bits time after time after time after time
 
  
  i have been very negative about this game BUT don't let this put you off , even with the dodgy 
 controls i am playing the game again to see the different outcomes 
::::::

::::::
UserName: abbazabba1977
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 17, 2007 1:44 pm PT
Review:  Graphics 9/10
  Control 7/10
  Sound 7/10
  Replay 6/10
  
  Overall 8/10
  
  Haven't got very far into this game but so far I'm enjoying it. It's a bit different than any other 
 game I've played but very enjoyable. Has it's quirks. The camera angle can be frustrating at times 
 but it's not to the point where it's annoying yet. Controlling your minons is quite fun. As you 
 porgress you get to control more and they reap havoc apon anything that stands in their way. It's 
 a nice change to play the evil side in a game for a change. Pick this one up it won't dissapoint. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jedifisto
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 16, 2007 10:47 pm PT
Review:  The game is a smart input of humor and evil. While your busy taking over the area your head to 
 head with creatures of wonder full imagination.. well YOUR not head to head your minions are. You 
 get four classes of minions 1) Brown: Regular day to day evil minion with no special capability. 
 2) Red: Fire controlling and hurling little demons that aren't very strong in heath but strong 
 in attack. 3) Green: Stealthy poison controlling little fiends. They can only manipulate and are 
 immune to poison and they cant use it in there attacks but they can be invisible when stationed 
 and also jump oh enemy's backs and cause allot of damage. Finally 4) Blue: The only minions that 
 can swim AND bring dead minions back to life, that is before there body's erode away. They can 
 hurl water but not as far away as reds but like the reds not very strong in health. Well Overlord 
 has its easy and difficult parts and its hard to control times but over all its a humors, fun, 
 action, well designed game that I recommend to play. Absolutely an 8.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: undead789
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 15, 2007 9:17 pm PT
Review:  When i first saw this I thought it would be an alright game. But, after playing it, i found out 
 that it was better than i thought. This isn't a bad game, but it could be way better. Even though 
 i really like what they did with the game, there could have been more blood and gore. After all, 
 when you can control multiple little demon looking things, you would expect them to rip their enemy 
 to shreds literally. Unfortunately, thats not true. Other than that, the rest of the game is pretty 
 awesome. The graphics are fairly good, and the sound is just as good. The best is the multiple 
 little funny things the minions say and do, like wearing dead rats on their heads, and takin a 
 leak after drinking beer. Its worth a try for sure, and more than likely, you will be hooked once 
 you start playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xaremathras
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 13, 2007 8:28 am PT
Review:  It's not too bad a game. Children under 12 might really enjoy this game, since you get to be the 
 bad guy for once, and some of the humor would be a lot funnier for children than older people. 
 Also it is not too difficult to play. It does get annoying sometimes though, since you don't have 
 a world map, and your Overlord is limited to certain places. Your minions have to go to the places 
 you can't reach instead of you, so you don't really get to actually see the secret you discovered, 
 which can be disappointing sometimes. It can be fun though, but when you engage combat your minions 
 usually kill whoever you're facing in about a second, so the game is mainly walking around and 
 summoning minions and casting spells at times. You don't really level up or get stronger, but you 
 do find different types of imps to do your bidding. This game is gonna help you out a lot if your 
 bored beyond measure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vasot
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 8, 2007 4:39 am PT
Review:  The game is fun controlling minions against your enemies etc
  
  But it lacks the variety of being really Epic and of being EVIL
  
  I would expect the Player 
 to control Trolls, Ogres, Orcs and not some stupid halfling with different colors all the time
 
  
  And giving the chance to the player to fight in large battlefields and not in some Map with linear 
 roads fulfilling silly quests
  
  Also for some reason the quests does not make you feel a very bad person
  
  I never felt really 
 EVIL in this game
  
  Anyway the game is fun for a little time but i expected to be way better 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NTX82
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 6, 2007 5:15 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of the best I recently played on my PC!!!
  Its really, but really good to be Evil!!!
  This game have great things... starting with the graphics... they 
 are really amazing... the world in Overlord is so full of colours, full of life (in certain places 
 of course) ... and its also a good place to practice Evil of course.
  The sound is also on the spot... specially the musics of the big battles... really wonderful!!
 
  One of the things that I enjoyed a lot in Overlord was the creatures that we control to do the 
 Evil work... A. K. A as Minions. They can be the lethal weapons alright... but they can be too the 
 most stupid thing on face of earth (so many funny moments they gave me) .
  There is one thing negative on this game, its quite short... so if a Overlord 2 comes to life ... I 
 hope its more big .
  This game will give you lots of good moments... so try it... and you will see that being Evil is 
 so good!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: firo999
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 4, 2007 2:31 am PT
Review:  For the first time i saw the game i noted to myself it's going to be great i mean fair graphics 
 and a new idea of being able to order minions [i think] . The day it came out i went to the store 
 and bought it and installed it i played i while and found it to be quite repetitive i mean u just 
 point and they do everything. U do almost nothing i mean u can' t jump or do any combos. the castle 
 upgrades are nice but how do they benefit u and the armor upgrades show in game play like u don't 
 get hurt much but not in the game like shiny new armor better looking or anything. The next thing 
 i hated was that u have to get orbs for every king of minion why can't they all have the same kind 
 of orb? the last thing i hated was that u're nothing without u're minions if u're minions dye which 
 they will eventually u are totally defenseless, u can't block, u're character walks like a brick, 
 and the place where u get u're minions is sometimes faraway making it boring to have to go back 
 to the beginning of the map and call some minions and go all the way back to the confrontation 
 area i also hated the lack of ragdoll physics it would have been great to be able to see u're minions 
 flying after being hit by some big creature. Although the game is somehow sluggish and annoying 
 it can be also fun i mean commanding 20+ minions of different classes and powers makes it nice 
 to play and the sheer humor of u're minions also make the game fun to play i mean if the destroy 
 pumpkins the put the pumpkins on their heads and they sometime acquire new weaponry from dead foes 
 or from barrels. This game maybe a boring sluggish game but some features correct the wrongs but 
 not all of them after 3 days of play i found that it was better to uninstall it and to give it 
 away to my cousin 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 07Dante07
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 2, 2007 2:40 pm PT
Review:  If you ever wanted to plunder, wreak havoc, enslave people, slaughter the innocent, etc... Then 
 this is the game for you.
  The controls are unique, not bad, but not great.
  the minions are lots of fun, And best of all the game is long.
  its not just a hack and slash 
 game. With many things to do, and many places to explore. While exploring you will find life upgrades, 
 mana upgrades, and horde size increaser's. While in you castle, You can decorate it. You can practice 
 against enemies in your dungeon. You can forge or upgrade you weapons, helmet, or armor. You get 
 choices in the game, which is something all games need. You can be as evil as you wish, or make 
 friends with the towns people. Either way you get perks. Check it out if your interested in playing 
 the bad guy for once. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: greyghosterly
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 2, 2007 7:28 am PT
Review:  You have to spend some time with this game... the quests lead you around a bit, and you have to 
 get to know each type of minion. You can save weapons and armor to build up your minions by grouping 
 them and using the guard command. This way you can achieve 250% attack with each type of minion, 
 which helps a ton. You can use the saved game commands to strengthen your minions, one group at 
 a time, depending on the scenario. You can re-visit scenario's to get better weapons/armor. This 
 game is under-valued on the whole, the graphics and sound are awesome... the game-play is wicked. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: virivirivapp
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 2, 2007 2:18 am PT
Review:  The game has a good gameplay with flow of all the gamers dream.
  Unique bosses &amp; upgrades to you, your castle &amp; minions!
  The graphics are very good, 
 but theonly negative thing is the length of the game. I completed it with 10 or less hours of game 
 play.
  The whole idea of scareficiing minons as a currency is genius, choose between 4 different minions.
 
  Browns, Reds, Greens and Blues, each with their own specialties.
  Sit down with a bottle of Coka Cola &amp; a bag of chips and enjoy the journey of uprising a fallen 
 dark domain.
  
  A Game worth playing! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talonfire
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 30, 2007 10:56 am PT
Review:  Sometimes you just feel like smiting some heroes, and before Overlord the only decent games that 
 cast us into the role of an evil overlord were Dungeon Keeper and Dungeon Keeper 2. While Overlord 
 is more of an Action\Puzzle game, and less of a Dungeon Simulation, it's a fun game because it 
 is fairly fresh.
  
  The story? Well, er, you are the Overlord, you are awakened in a stone coffin by little Gremlin-like 
 creatures called Minions only to find out that your predecessor was killed by heroes, and looted 
 the tower that is now in ruin. Your ultimate goal is to kill the heroes who have slain your predecessor, 
 but your immediate goal is to restore the tower to working condition and possibly make it better 
 than it once was. The story is simple enough, but it doesn't really need to be complicated.
  
  The gameplay is where Overlord really shines. Essentially, Overlord is an action game with 
 some puzzle elements. Unlike Dungeon Keeper where you manipulated everything from the shadows, 
 in Overlord you yourself must travel and perform quests to essentially conquer the land. You are 
 not alone in your task, however; in Overlord you command an army of minions. You start out only 
 being able to command five at a time, but as you recover certain objects your max count increases 
 by five.
  
  The minion portion of the gameplay is somewhat similar to Pikmen, if you are familiar with that 
 particular title. As the Overlord, your minions will do anything you ask even if it means death. 
 While you can fight, it is best to usually let your minions handle things and only assist during 
 important battles. Essentially you have four types of minions, browns (which you start out with) 
 are your warriors. Browns are the most effective melee fighters you can get, but fighting is all 
 they're good for. Reds are similar to archers, they stay on the sidelines launching fireballs at 
 your foes, and can also absorb fire blocking your path, and they are immortal against fire attacks. 
 Greens are essentially thief-like, they attempt to jump on their opponents and backstab them, they 
 are also useful for getting rid of toxic plants. Finally there are blues, poor fighters but they 
 can revive fallen minions and they are the only ones who can traverse water. I found the differences 
 between each minion type to be a nice touch, I usually used mostly browns since you face more combat 
 than puzzles, but each minion type having their own unique use made the game far more entertaining.
 
  
  Ultimately the game's puzzles consist of using the right minion for the job. Some puzzles require 
 the use of multiple minion types of course, but I personally didn't find any of the game's puzzles 
 too complicated. Now as I said before, you also can launch yourself into the fray, but to be effective 
 you'll end up needing to use the game's unique forge system. At the beginning you can only forge 
 steel equipment, which is your starting equipment, but you'll come across two other forges in the 
 game that will allow you to forge better equipment. Your starting forge is not useless, however; 
 by sacrificing your eager minions you can upgrade many properties of your items. Sacrificing brown 
 minions increases weapon damage, for example. This was a very nice feature, but I rarely used it 
 since I never really had the minions to spare.
  
  My biggest gripe with the gameplay is how everyone expected you, the big bad Overlord, to perform 
 heroic tasks for them. Here you are on a quest for world domination, and a town wants you to rescue 
 slaves. Gaining support through good deeds is a great way to be a very subtle kind of evil, but 
 alas I don't think this was very well executed in Overlord.
  
  Graphically, Overlord is above average. It's nothing truly spectacular, but it's not bad either. 
 You can't see your Overlord's face (glowing eyes aside) , but his armor (especially when upgraded 
 and fully corrupt) is very similar to Sauron's from the film version of the Lord of the Rings trilogy. 
 The Minions also share similar appearances and characteristics to the Gremlins from the movie of 
 the same name. Still, the environments are very different from one another, and beautiful to look 
 at. You'll never feel like you've been there before, since even the dungeons are all unique in 
 their appearance.
  
  The audio is excellent. The voice acting is definitely above average, though like Fable, the presence 
 of the occasional character with an American accent in a setting where nearly everyone has an English 
 accent is a bit odd. The music is nothing memorable, but I found it to be above average.
  
  Overlord is a great game. It has some downsides, such as the Overlord occasionally being heroic, 
 but its fresh gameplay more than makes up for this. Commanding legions of followers to pillage 
 a village has never been more satisfying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctor_kaz
Rating: 5.5
Date: Aug 29, 2007 6:22 am PT
Review:  Overlord is a game that makes a great first impression upon you. It sports slick graphics, entertaining 
 style, and a great premise  namely, the chance to play as a big bad overlord, not a selfless hero 
 out to destroy evil. Finally, a game that lets you terrorize the population, control evil minions, 
 plot to take over the world, and kill off uppity heroes. Right? Well, not exactly. Its a concept 
 that is long overdue and a great foundation for a game, but, unfortunately, it does not get very 
 far past that point. Overlord starts with a great idea, but spoils it with a host of gameplay and 
 design problems, and a distinct lack of evil. Despite a great presentation and a refreshing take 
 on strategy and RPGs, Overlord is not as the great game that it could have been, and it feels 
 like a wasted opportunity.
  
  Overlord is about 50% RTS, 50% RPG. You carry an axe and you have bars for health and man, but 
 you also control a swarm of minions, almost like a squad-based shooter. It is an innovative gameplay 
 mix, but unfortunately, it arrives with all sorts of annoying issues. None of these problems are 
 overwhelming, but they add up to significantly dampen the experience. The biggest problem is that 
 the gameplay is sorely lacking in depth and variety. It is too simplistic to provide meaningful 
 strategy, role-playing, or tactics. Your minions are less of a strategic tool, and more of a loosely 
 controlled mob that you can point in one direction or another.
  
  The control scheme doesnt allow for any complexity, so most of the game just involves you pointing 
 in a certain direction and pressing the left mouse button to unleash your minions. Point in the 
 general direction of a house, and theyll ransack the house. Point in the general direction of 
 a group of enemies, and theyll attack those enemies. There is no crosshair or pointer in this 
 game, and you cannot pause the game to issue orders. You cannot click and drag to select minions, 
 and once a group of them gets into a fight, its impossible to put any tactics to use. In addition 
 to minion control, you have some very basic attacks and spells, but there is little skill involved 
 in using them. You dont even aim a spell like a fireball. You just point in a direction and cast 
 away. Overlords level design is as simplistic as its strategy elements. The areas appear open-ended 
 at first, but you soon find that the process that you need to follow is tightly linear and full 
 of little more than basic enemies and basic problems for you to solve. There are four types of 
 minions, but the browns are the best, and the others arent much use for anything besides solving 
 puzzles. Within a few hours, you will be tired of repeating simple actions, like assembling pieces 
 of a wheel to open a gate, or pointing your minions and vases and barrels to loot them. Looting 
 stuff composes about 90% of the commands that you will give to your minions. When there are no 
 enemies around, the game is simply boring. When there are tough enemies around, the basic controls 
 make it frustrating. The game just isnt much fun to play.
  
  Problematic design decisions arise in other ways too. Overlord, at times, feels like a puzzle game. 
 You use red minions to get past fire obstacles and you use green minions to get past poison obstacles. 
 Sometimes, there are no hints to indicate that you have encountered a puzzle with only one solution. 
 The game gives you more than one quest at a time, but sometimes you cannot complete one quest until 
 you have completed another. The game gives you absolutely no hint whatsoever about this limitation, 
 until you get stuck halfway through a quest. Even then, there is no hint that completing Quest 
 A is necessary to complete Quest B. You are left to wonder around for an hour, wondering if you 
 have done something wrong somewhere, or looking it up on the internet.
  
  Overlord doesnt even deliver on the idea of playing an evil character. The idea is completely 
 neutered. Right from the beginning, you are rescuing humans and recovering food for villagers. 
 You can ransack houses in villages, but the citizens hardly react to it. Later, you go on to face 
 seven old heroes. But are they good guys? Nope. They are fallen heroes. Why does the game have 
 to be this way? Why couldnt I kill legitimately good heroes? Why cant I burn villages to the 
 ground over the laments of their women? Overlord promises a new twist to fantasy gaming, but completely 
 fails to deliver. The dark side path of Knights of the Old Republic was much more satisfying.
 
  
  Of all the problems that Overlord has, however, the strangest is a basic feature that it doesnt 
 have. Namely, maps. There are no maps in this game. There is no mini-map, and no map screen. There 
 is nothing that marks your objectives for you or gives you any indication about where you are on 
 a level or in an area. There is no world map view that gives you any perspective on where your 
 missions are taking place. There is nothing that tracks what areas you have explored, and which 
 areas you have yet to see. There is nothing that points you where to go next, in case you dont 
 feel like wandering around looking. This might be the only strategy or role playing game that I 
 have played in the past ten years that has no map.
  
  It seems as if most of the effort to polish and test the game went into graphics and audio, and 
 to Overlords credit, it is great at both. Overlord is a very attractive game from a technical 
 standpoint, and its light-hearted style makes it very entertaining to watch. The game shows off 
 a large variety of environments with a cartoonish style that Fable also brilliantly used. Animations 
 are done very nicely, especially for your hilarious minions. They bash stuff, throw up their arms 
 in triumph and dance, wear stuff that they find, and pee after they have had a few beers. The voice 
 acting shares the same humorous style, and it is all top-notch. Your minions, once again, steal 
 the show in this department. They sound exactly like the loyal, dogmatic, amusingly brainless fodder 
 that they are supposed to be. If Triumph Studios had put the same level of attention into the design 
 of the missions or perhaps improving the level of strategy in the game, Overlord could have been 
 great. But it isnt great. Its not even good. Thanks to all of its problems, Overlord simply isnt 
 fun. In summary, its essentially an RTS with simple controls, no maps, no click-and-drag functionality, 
 and no ability to pause the game to issue orders. Its also an RPG with minimal role-playing elements. 
 If you believe that you have just read the formula for a mediocre game, then you are right. Too 
 much simplicity and poor mission design ultimately sap the games entertainment value. Overlord 
 is a big disappointment that pretty graphics and a humorous presentation cannot salvage. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WiredDreemz
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 29, 2007 3:03 am PT
Review:  I've been keeping track of this game for quite a while, and when I finally popped it into my drive 
 and gave it a whirl, I was hooked! It is not the perfect game, but it is no where near mediocre 
 or bad.
  
  The graphics are clean and sharp, with plenty of colour. Four things though spring to mind as a 
 negative:
  
  1. You hear the same things being said over and over again by NPCs which becomes monotonous, and 
 sometimes you just feel like letting your minions loose on them,
  
  2. The variety of NPCs is greatly lacking,
  
  3. Lack of a map (if there is one I haven't found 
 it yet) makes exploring a bit of a headache.
  
  4. The replayabilty is not great, but it is there if you enjoyed it the first time round.
  
 
  Another point to bring out is that while your intentions are to be evil, your enemies are fifty 
 times more evil, so you feel more like a hero than an antihero, or evil villain.
  
  RPG elements are there, i. e. upgrading armour and weapons, but it is not as pronounced as you might 
 want.
  
  In a nutshell, it is a fun game that I would recommend to anybody who feels like playing something 
 a bit fresh. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alexmaung
Rating: 5.5
Date: Aug 28, 2007 12:53 pm PT
Review:  The graphics are very nice on this game, but the controls are very out of place. Especially when 
 trying to control your minions. There's really no problem when controlling them individually, but 
 pathfinding problems arise when you try to control them all at once. I'm sure people will find 
 the game some what humorous and amusing, but all in all it's not as good as the rating that gamespot 
 gave it! Maybe a 5.5 or 6. It's really the graphics that make it appealing, gameplay wise it is 
 rather stale. The sounds in Overlord can be fun and light hearted but the jokes get old very quickly. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snofelj
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 26, 2007 5:19 am PT
Review:  Being evil? Hell, that's easy. Letting players unleash their id and make 'em laugh at the same 
 time? That's the hard part. Yet, between ordering the demise of countless sheep and gutting rabid 
 unicorns, that's exactly what's happening in third-person action-adventure Overlord.
  
  Many games try dangling that cause-and-effect karmic pendulum, yet it rarely fazes; you don't care 
 what happens. Embracing that, Overlord essentially says, Go on. Be the most insufferably evil bastard 
 on the planet, and we won't punish you any more than we would if you actually decided to help people. 
 Saving the town's food supply is an option, sure -- the people will give you a hero's welcome. 
 On the other hand, hoarding the stash and killing any witnesses can lead to additional side quests&amp; like, 
 say, kidnapping women to create your own harem. Truth is, since evil deeds unlock so many more 
 cool options, the challenge becomes doing the right thing (achieving a zero-percent corruption 
 rating's easier said than done) .
  
  [img  src]
  [Click the image above 
 to check out all Overlord screens.]
  
  Still, Overlord isn't really about the overlord. Yes, you can buy weaponry or kit the castle with 
 everything from torture gear to coffee tables, but your gang of adorably sadistic minions steal 
 the show. Point in a direction and let 'em go; they know to attack targets, loot the area, or move 
 objects&amp;#8743; if you're running low on health, your subjects willingly jump into a nearby 
 shrine and die to restore you. At first, they're cannon fodder to fling into fights, consequences 
 be damned. If they die, just call up more. Something happens along the way, though: You start getting 
 attached to the little guys.
  
  You want to keep that pumpkin-headed, dress-wearing imp alive -- not only because you've had him 
 since the beginning, but because new gear means a more powerful minion. Besides, the aforementioned 
 meat grinder strategy only works for so long. Tactics eventually come into play and with new minion-types: 
 Reds hurl fireballs, greens excel at stealth, and blues hang back as healers. Suddenly, combat 
 requires more finesse than just throwing those brown scrapper minions at every dilemma.
  
  Problem is you need finer control than the keyboard-and-mouse setup offers on the PC. Play enough 
 battles requiring simultaneous attacks from a gremlin horde and your antihero, and you'll notice 
 a huge difference when using a gamepad. As is now becoming the standard, Overlord maps its controller 
 layout to the ubiquitous Xbox 360 pad -- the left stick moves the master, and sweeping the right 
 stick gives total control of the minions. So if you don't already own a gamepad, add that to the 
 price tag. (Current 360 owners are obviously in the clear.)
  
  Your flunkies also embody Overlord's one weak point: Loosen the iron grip, and they'll stupidly 
 drown themselves chasing after a bug... or race headlong into overwhelming odds. Maybe the boneheaded 
 A. I. is intentional; maybe they're supposed to be feral lemmings, and the game's forcing you to 
 slow down for tactics -- but I ain't buying it. With a throng of mischievous pets as the game's 
 centerpiece, you'd expect 'em to be a little better housebroken. I lost track of how many times 
 I voluntarily restarted from a checkpoint to keep one dopey &uuml; bergremlin alive. Then again, 
 any game that makes me want to restart -- rather than making me have to restart -- can't be all 
 bad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ag3nTe
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 25, 2007 6:57 pm PT
Review:  You are the next Overlord of the dynasty.
  You are needed to bring order to the world. But you must choose to be a lawful
  Overlord or an 
 evil Overlord.
  The game takes you through missions which you must complete to gain artifacts for your beloved 
 Tower. But you're not alone! You are helped by minions and them are going to do whatever you want... 
 anything!
  The audio dialogs are very very fun. You can't get tired listening what the buffoon minion says.
 
  The controls are pretty easy even with the keyboard and mouse settings. But if you have a X-Box 
 compatible control things get more easier.
  The game it's very addictive, fun and easy to play. The game lets you choose between good and evil, 
 and always the what if... its going to be present.
  A must have for Action RPG's lovers! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: indigoAK200
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 23, 2007 10:21 am PT
Review:  Simplicity is a hard thing to come by in the gaming industry these days. Everything you see from 
 first-person shooters to real-time strategy games to adventure games are chock full of complex 
 mechanics and weaving storylines that fold in on themselves an infinite number of times before 
 the end credits roll, and while this is admittedly the way to go for the mainstream  theres something 
 the gaming industry could learn from the movie industry in order to keep the masses happy. Its 
 that no matter how much complexity that the masses want, that a little simplicity and harmless 
 fun is always good from time to time. It allows the mind to simply relax and indulge itself; let 
 loose and have a wild ride. If youre asking whether Triumph Studios Overlord does this well, 
 the answer would most assuredly be, Yes, it does. And it does it with aplomb. From the simple 
 mechanics that any boy or girl could pick up in a heartbeat to the gorgeous visuals and the gameplay 
 content that really shouldnt have been rated Teen, Overlord does what it does perhaps better than 
 many games that tout complex mechanics and storylines that look like a spider web. Overlord is 
 simply a game that gets a lot of things right  and doesnt really get anything wrong.
  
  Story
  
  Being a simple game at heart, its totally understandable that Overlord doesnt really 
 bother fleshing out any kind of real story. The real heart of the game is the ability to be completely 
 and utterly evil, and this is what the game focuses on. To that effect, theres a very basic structure 
 here that basically involves the fact that youre the Overlord of an evil domain that was ransacked 
 and removed from the power of your predecessor. Your mission, should you choose to accept it, is 
 to build your domain back into power and then buy new upgrades for your stronghold, all while searching 
 the land to amass a new army of Minions. There are a few additions to this basic structure along 
 the way, but none of them really shake things up to any noticeable degree, so its easy to take 
 them with a grain of salt and just keep playing. The simple story, in turn, makes it very easy 
 to focus on what the game is really about. The Minions.
  
  Gameplay
  
  Overlords gameplay centers around the player controlling his (or her) very own small army of Minions; 
 mindless, utterly brainless, and ready-to-please little gremlin like things that do all of your 
 bidding. There are four different variations to these minions: brown minions are great at melee 
 combat; blues can swim (while the others cant) and can raise their fallen comrades from the dead; 
 reds toss fireballs; and greens are immune to poison. Most of the games puzzle and strategic gameplay 
 revolves around all of these strengths and weaknesses in some way, so most of figuring out how 
 to take down whatevers in front of you is about figuring out what that particular obstacles weakness 
 is and exploiting it with the required minion type. A few of the larger obstacles in the game will 
 require more than one minion type, but to the games credit the control makes is incredibly easy 
 to manage more than one type of minion at a time.
  
  For the most part, the game is designed on either platform to make real use of the Xbox 360 controller. 
 Controlling your Overlord is as simple as moving the left stick to navigate the game world. Like 
 most recent PC games to utilize the Xinput framework to leverage the Xbox 360 controller, all of 
 the in-game prompts will use the same color-coded icons that game would running natively on the 
 Xbox 360, so youre never really lost on what to push or move. Pulling the left trigger allows 
 you to lock on to different targets in the game world and pulling the right trigger sends your 
 minion horde out to attack whatever is directly in front of you. If you dont want to send the 
 entire horde, dont hold the trigger down  just press it a few times and the number of corresponding 
 minions will be sent out. Finally, in perhaps one of the most genius design choices ever chosen 
 by a development team, the minions all match the colors of the four letter buttons on the face 
 of the Xbox 360 controller. If you hold down the right shoulder button and then press one of the 
 face buttons on the controller, youll get to select only the matching minion color. This allows 
 you to perform more specific roles in the game world, such as getting rid of a poison cloud with 
 your green minions without poisoning the rest of the colors to death. It also allows you to pull 
 off two part commands, which will be required at certain times during the game. For instance, suppose 
 theres a monster waiting between you and a piece of treasure and the treasure is in a body of 
 water. Well, assuming that the monster itself is on dry land, you could send your brown and green 
 minions to keep it busy while you send your blue minions in to the water to extract your loot. 
 To make things easier, the game allows you to click the right analog stick to zoom out the game 
 to a more traditional real-time strategy view and then use the right stick to more accurately 
 control whatever color horde (or the entire horde if you wish) . If you press the Y button youre 
 controlling a horde, theyll be given a guard marker which tells them to stay there until you call 
 them back. So if you place a guard marker for the green and brown minions mentioned above, you 
 wont have to worry about them getting in the way of the blue minions gathering your treasure.
 
  
  The great thing about all of this is that the controls in Overlord are laid out superbly. Youre 
 never fighting your fingers to press a button, even in the direst situations and because of the 
 simplicity of the control scheme; its easy to fluidly give out commands to your minion hordes 
 in battle. And because the control scheme and game mechanics are simple overall, Overlord is a 
 game thats easy to pick up for practically any age and should apply just as well to the younger 
 audience as it does to the older.
  
  Presentation
  
  Overlord doesnt skimp on the presentation. The game makes full use of the latest techniques brought 
 about by Shader Model 3.0 and in order to run the game in its full glory, youll need a fairly 
 powerful high-end video card. To this degree, the Xbox 360 version will be more appealing to those 
 that dont want to spend the time and effort upgrading their PC or worrying about it to begin with. 
 There are slight differences between the two  the PC version tends to have more detail objects 
 scattered about and the PC version carries a larger degree of grass than the 360 does. On either 
 platform, the game looks and sounds superb. The world is all very surreal and bright looking, with 
 a diverse color palette and a large variety of different architecture styles scattered throughout. 
 Over the course of the game, youll see everything for a lush farmland to a dying Elvin forest, 
 to a superbly done beach cave thats teaming with blue tones and great water effects. Theres not 
 a single part of the game thats looks blurry, grainy, or undercooked.
  
  The voice acting though is perhaps what makes the presentation shine in Overlord. The Minions are 
 a blast to listen to in action, spouting things like, For the master! Burn, pillage, destroy! 
 and Taking positions! over the course of the game. While they do repeat themselves a lot, the 
 quality of the voice acting for the minions and the subtle nuance sounds of each make it so that 
 they never get old. The blue minions will gurgle as if theyre choking on water and will blow bubble 
 out of their noses, the red minions will hack and cough as though theyve got bronchitis, and the 
 green minions will wave their hands in front of their noses as if theyve farted and it really 
 stinks. The various peasants throughout the game are voiced a degree that sounds just right  theyre 
 totally overboard, but theyre not annoying and almost every one of them will likely say something 
 that has you either giggling or outright laughing. Theres also the fact that the ambience effects 
 in Overlord are outstanding. If youve got a surround sound setup, youll be immensely impressed 
 by what you hear. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thanatose
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 12, 2007 9:43 pm PT
Review:  Having played this game on both PC and Xbox 360 and I can honestly say this game is a blast and 
 well worth playing. The graphics on the PC are just a little bit better when you crank it up to 
 high but not by much. The highest resolution I was able to bump it up to was 1280x1024. The overall 
 gameplay for this game is incredibly entertaining even though the story line is a bit on the linear 
 side. It is however well written and very humorous with comic highs such as your minions getting 
 drunk and urinating on your shoe. The odd comments by the NPCs also add to the comedic aspect of 
 Overlord nicely. The quests range from kidnapping new servants to recovering various items stolen 
 from your tower and the maps are large and beautifully rendered. When you first start the game 
 you are given an option to play a short guided tutorial which walks you through all of the basics 
 of the game. The tutorial teaches you combat and minion control by having you beat up on your belligerent 
 court jester . The tutorial continues throughout the game whenever something new comes up. The 
 only real downside I've found is how difficult it can be to figure out how to get around the maps. 
 The lack of a mini map will have you navigating by memory once you figure out where everything 
 is at. Overall Overlord is a great way to spend your time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gameniko
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 18, 2007 9:50 am PT
Review:  Controlling your minions is so much fun. The games quests are of a good pace, in original and nicely 
 designed environments, from caves to villages to elven forests. You get to fight various enemies 
 from dwarfs to trolls. Your minions come in 4 different flavours red, brown, green, blue. Each 
 type has different sets of abilities and each plays an important role in each mission. There are 
 plenty of bosses which are not hard to kill. You have your own tower which you can visit, upgrade 
 your character; s sword, armor and helmet. As you progress through the game you can level up your 
 character and your minions. Controlling your minions needs some getting used to, but once you figure 
 it out it gets so much fun... For those who want to do it themselves, you can also use your character 
 to fight and casts spells, and leave your minions behind to watch. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: star_fire_777
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 12, 2007 2:27 pm PT
Review:  I was really excited about overlord when I first heard about it in 2006, but unfortunately my hopes 
 have not come to fruition.
  
  The basics you probably already know: Overlord is a 3rd person action adventure game with some 
 strategy elements as well, in the form of controlling a squad of usually 30+ minions at a time. 
 The premise and design is a unique one, and in this regard Overlord should be applauded. The original 
 design concepts are what initially intrigued me about the game, and Overlord is indeed a unique 
 game.
  
  But is it a fun game? Unfortunately, too often you will probably find yourself answering no . There 
 are many fun moments, like using your minion army to pillage fat fascist halflings or even an innocent 
 village of peasants, but these moments end up being just that - moments. The overall gameplay is 
 more drudgery than fun, with awkward controls, a really annoying and sometimes death-inducing camera, 
 and all kinds of quirky bugs that never ruin the game, but really, really detract from it to the 
 point where you can't escape noticing them.
  
  The bugs are really what ruin Overlord. The game is the definition of glitchy, as you will walk 
 through raised bridges, have your minions get stuck and not able to return to you for the rest 
 of the level, and get hit by enemies when you are not near them. It's sloppy, and it shows. I'd 
 like to think the game was rushed to release before it was truly ready, as you can see so much 
 potential in Overlord, but also so many blemishes.
  
  This game is worth a rental, but beware buying it. You may enjoy parts of it, as I did, but in 
 the end, you'll be glad you rented it instead of buying it. I am sorry to have to say this, because 
 this really could have been a great game with 6 months more development time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: akafresh
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 10, 2007 10:45 pm PT
Review:  If you like game like pigmen, and oblivion. This game is a cross between the two. You are the overlord 
 and you control 100's of minions. Pro:
  Graphics
  Gameplay
  Concept
  
  Con:
  Just 1
  not that big. Wont play on a lot of systems, high expectation.
  
  I recommend using 
 the xbox 360 controller for windows when you play.
  Its much better than the mouse and keyboard. Its cool how you can get more minions, and different 
 minions for that.
  
  Overall: If you have a good computer, buy it! But don't listen to the system requirements. You 
 need at least a ATI x1300 or Nvidia 7600 to play this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jathyr
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 8, 2007 9:10 pm PT
Review:  My gripes with this game are few, and are more pointed at other lazy reviewers than the developers... 
 First let's start with the positives, which there are many.
  
  This game is original- It has strategy elements in a light RPG setting with some action fighting. 
 The storyline branches and the game balances thinking and mindless hack-and-slash fun with a bit 
 of goblin humor. The humor is very well done, you might bring your friends around the TV to watch 
 some of the fun stuff the goblins do in some situations. Overall, it's a B- to B+ game. Here's 
 a little more about the game in detail.
  
  You have four very different minion types that make a big difference in how you strategize each 
 level. The beginning of the game lets you romp around and watch your minions slaughter sheep and 
 just enjoy the mechanics while later in the game you'll think a lot about how many greens you'll 
 need... anyway you'll see this if you play it, which I hope you do.
  
  The tower you rule from has some fun upgradeable options that make it a little more interesting, 
 with a dungeon to slaughter enemies you've already faced, as well as a forge to create new weapons 
 and armor... The disappointing part in all this is its very RPG light and other than knowing durium 
 beats steel you don' t know how worthwhile upgrading your stuff is.
  
  You will have fun playing this game. Most other reviews that put this game at a C- or below have 
 only rented it and played an hour or two. Take their opinion for what it's worth -- not much. While 
 this game isn't breakthrough material, it's lots of fun. It's mildly challenging and has a lot 
 of scene changes to stave of the monotomy. Yes most of the missions are go to X and kill everything, 
 but that's what 95% of all games are. This one tries to throw in something different but it stays 
 that way, for the most part.
  
  Overall, this is a Buy, not a Rent. But I'd say only to people who don't want a shooter or the 
 next Oblivion.... i'm sorry its not that and apparently from the other reviews I've read, most 
 of you think that. Don't have unrealistic expectations... this game isn't a Bad-guy Bloodbath. 
 This is Fable meets Kameo and Pimkin and it's good.
  
  Thanks for reading my review, I hoped you enjoyed it.
  
  jath 
::::::

::::::
UserName: medic4hire
Rating: 7.1
Date: Aug 6, 2007 6:40 pm PT
Review:  Ya know, there is something to be said of being evil. Games in which you do not portray the Hero 
 have a certain attractiveness about them. The game starts off rather cartoonish and stays that 
 way most of the time. Unfortunately it does not have much for replay value. At some point in the 
 game you must repeat previously played levels in order to acquire more minions. There can be some 
 challenge in the later part of the game but for the most part it is fairly easy to beat. Although 
 the game tries to migrate from a linear approach, it fails to do so for the most part. I would 
 value this game at $30. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AzureCuzYeah
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 4, 2007 1:42 am PT
Review:  Like many games you wake from your long awaited rest to save the world. Not in Overlord. In Overlord 
 you wake up to do Evil and conquer an empire by harnessing the power of your minions. Your minions 
 do all the heavy lifting to the point where you don't really need to swing your Axe for a good 
 portion of the game.
  
  The controls of the game can be rather frustrating. Either they are not that responsive or you 
 just can't get your minions to do what you want them to. This becomes more complicated when you 
 get different types of minions, with new abilities, down the road. The game is very fun over all 
 even with some of the control issues. Although the game stresses how evil you are at times it hardly 
 seems it. You will find yourself helping villagers and elves along the road, becoming their hero. 
 Although you do not have to help them the option just to help can be confusing. This game is rated 
 Teen, which doesn't take away from the fun, but this could of been a great dark Mature rated game. 
 I am already 10 hours in and I find this to be a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikenukem_404
Rating: 8.4
Date: Aug 3, 2007 8:02 pm PT
Review:  Out-standing graphics and game play.
  Though it's a little hard at the begging to control your player and the minions as two separate 
 entities, it makes it a pretty good tactical/action game. The bad part of this it's that you'll 
 often find yourself not moving your character so you can control the minions.
  Customizing your own evil tower adds some points to the game.
  But the option of being just evil 
 or incredible evil way of the game is softened by the fact that your actions have little or no 
 consequences at all.
  Also, the way your experience it's handled is innovating for a RPG/action. You won't use your experience 
 directly on yourself, but upgrade your weapons and armor, and to do so, you must sacrifice your 
 minions. That gives you the option of focusing on certain abilities, depending of what kind of minion 
 you sacrifice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zirocrath
Rating: 2.9
Date: Aug 3, 2007 10:31 am PT
Review:  So yes, you are a resurrected evil guy that now has control over your minions... which happens 
 to be goblins... always goblins. Not much of a strong minion at all so here is the first flaw. 
 Also these goblins are pretty funny most of the time. So more than a powerfull overlord you are 
 something like David Bowie in Labyrinth... yeah... the goblin's king. It doesn't happens in the 
 game, but the last thing your character need to do to become a real comedy/fantasy-movie-character 
 would be singing and dancing...
  So as you can see, this is no serious game, in fact, it's quite childish. Here the second flaw. 
 These two things would be enough to say is not a great game... but sadly, there's more. If you 
 where specting something not equal, but at least similar to Dungeon Keeper... forget it. In these 
 game you waste a lot of time in rebuilding a Dungeon that you may never use at all. And how do 
 you do it? Moving across a map, doing the same things over and over... summoning minions, sending 
 them here to to do this. Change some brown minions for red ones to send them there and do that... 
 over and over and over and over and over... you may say: Nah! forget the minions! I'll do it myself... 
 Well you can't... I can't even fight decently as your moves are slow and you blow is weak. You'd 
 send 3 or 4 goblins to kill something... what makes me think... Hey! if I cannot beat these enemies 
 by my own... but 5 of my minions can... they would easily get rid of me when they want... right? 
 So this is the third and final flaw... as and Overlord, you are weak... TOTALLY WEAK...
  
  The game also have some entertaining and interesting things, but they don't match the bad ones. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TagDaze
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 3, 2007 4:56 am PT
Review:  Since 2003's twice expanded and much lauded Age of Wonders games, we haven't seen much of Triumph 
 Studios, until recently, when the Dutch game developer suddenly brought Overlord to the market. 
 A fantasy setting worked fantastically for them before, so they stuck with it. Overlord proves 
 they have got quite a knack for fantasy games, but there are some things that could definitely 
 have been improved.
  
  In Overlord you will be playing an evil, faceless lord brandishing some tough armor and living 
 in a equally evil looking fortress. Unfortunately, you predecessor got defeated by a bunch of heroes 
 who demolished the castle, and now it's up to you to restore evil in the land.
  
  After a short introduction you get taught how to perform attacks, both with your own weapon and 
 with your minions, little gremlins that slavishly do whatever you say, and are more than happy 
 to die for you. After all, what do these little guys do without a (not so) benevolent master?
 
  
  The control scheme for these little creatures is quite simple. Just point your overlord where you 
 want them to go, and left click to send a minion there. Hold the button, and you'll send them all. 
 Right click to call them back. This control scheme makes playing a breeze, and if they still don't 
 want to go where you want them to go, you always have the option to hold both mouse buttons and 
 take some direct control of the little beasts.
  
  So the controls are fairly simple. After all, the game is fairly simple itself. You will walk through 
 the land, sending your minions here and there, do some useless wrecking, and that about describes 
 your options in every situation. What then, is the appeal in this game?
  
  First of all, the puzzles. The game is not supposed to be a real time strategy game with massive 
 battles, nor is it supposed to a role playing game in which you kill until you reach the next level. 
 The game is about the puzzles that need to be resolved. The three minion types you have, brown, 
 red and blue, all have their own special abilities. For example, red minions can walk through fires 
 and clear burning rubble. Try and send a brown minion into a fire and he will burn to death. Therefore, 
 you would use a handful of red minions to walk through that fiery furnace and throw the switch 
 on the other side, so you and your browns can go through the door that has just opened.
  This is what the game is about , and Triumph has done fine in this department.
  
  Also, the 
 audio. Although the voice acting is sometimes a little hit or miss a la Black &amp; White, your 
 little minions will keep bringing smiles to your face. When they bring you some loot, they will 
 offer it to you in their high, raspy voice full of admiration for your evil being. It makes you 
 laugh in the beginning, and will bring a smile and a chuckle throughout the game.
  
  Third, there's the small touches the game has. The sheep which are hopping around the green meadows 
 in a disgustingly cute manner, the minions drinking ale and relieving themselves afterwards, and 
 more of these small touches will have you paying attention throughout the game.
  
  Although the graphics really aren't amazing, they do the job just fine. The game looks great in 
 some departments, such as the animation on the plants, the way debris flies everywhere when things 
 are demolished and smoke coming out of the houses, but there are also instances where the human 
 characters look quite poor, and that's a shame, because overall, the atmosphere in the game is 
 spot on.
  
  Overlord is a good game that will give you hours of fun. It's not complicated, it's not hard; it 
 doesn't need to be. Though it has its downsides, the sheer fun you get out of having your minions 
 destroy everything in sight has you wanting to play just one more puzzle .
  Full of potential, Overlord asks for a sequel that addresses the minor issues that fail to bring 
 down this original pick-up-and-play game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rejected777
Rating: 6.9
Date: Aug 2, 2007 5:25 am PT
Review:  First of all, when I started reading about Overlord I my thoughts drifted to the old Dungeon Keeper 
 game. I silently wondered if Overlord would truly feature an EVIL overlord, or if it's going to 
 be another haha, look at me, I'm funny and evil! game. Sadly, Overlord is the latter.
  
  Now don't get me wrong, Overlord is finely done. Good voice acting, cheezy minions whose choice 
 of words and tone of voice made me laugh more than once. But that's just the problem. If I play 
 an evil overlord, do I really want to laugh because my minions are comedians? That is the biggest 
 flaw of the game, it's made in a comedy way.
  
  Graphics were quite good. The level of detail, especially on the main character, is very good. 
 Lighting sets the mood wherever you go and the spell effects look quite nice too.
  
  Sound is ok. Nothing extraordinary. The ambience is what to be expected, depending on the level. 
 The voice acting however, is very good. Every voice is fitting for each character.
  
  The levels are varying. There's the normal farmland, where you start out, and there's an old forest, 
 one dungeon, one town &amp; caste and a desert for example. Every setting is well made graphically, 
 and the ambience is fitting for each level.
  
  The fighting leaves a lot ot be desired. Basically you just send all minions into battle and wait 
 for them to kill whatever you sent them against, or you mash the melee button and do the same combo 
 over, and over, and over, etc, etc.
  
  Overall Overlord is an entertaining game, but it leaves a lot to be desired.
  I, for instance, 
 desired to be an evil overlord and all I got to be was the caretaker of my less than gifted minions. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gameman_4
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 2, 2007 5:04 am PT
Review:  oke just a basic intro, you start the game by getting ressurected by some minions and gnarl, the 
 old pixie (as velvet likes to call them)
  your first task is to get your towers portal back into operations
  
  well basicly you have 
 2 goals in this game, getting your tower back into its old glory and screwing the mistr (%* oops... eh 
 i mean getting your overlord to a higher level by gathering object (gnarl likes objects..... as 
 you will notice...)
  
  well enough spoiling the story, lets talk about controls
  
  its managed in a simple way using the s-w-LM-RM + misc kind of setup the only bad thing i can say 
 about it is the lack of options regarding unit movement (i dont want blues to attack... ever, but 
 they do it anyway)
  
  holding both mouse buttons will let you controll the selected group completely (moving with the 
 mouse will move them in that direction on the screen)
  
  
  
  
  
  minions are devided into 4 different tribes:
  - browns, these are your basic fighting units and 
 have nothing special but that they hit harder than any other unit
  
  - greens, stealthy rogue like creatures, they specialize in backstabbing large targets, but are 
 relatively weak if attacked frontally
  
  - red, these are your ranged units, they throw fire and have moderate low health
  
  - blues, 
 these are what you could say the healers of that pack, once a minion dies they can ressurect him, 
 but the are as fragile as glass themselves
  
  
  gameplay is very much orientated upon the choice will you be good/evil or evil/evil? sometimes 
 you get the choice of doing the right thing, which doesnt get you anything... or the bad thing which 
 gains you something nice
  
  gfx is good, but i think the game is developed more with the mid-range systems in mind (and you 
 cant blame em can u....)
  but with everything on high it still look awesome
  some things (characters!) more than others..... hehehehe
  
  overall this game is definetly worth 
 the money spent, replay value is also oke since you can play it twice and see what happens if you 
 would have done that the other way around
  
  definetly a underhyped little jewel
  
  
  
  
  
  
  what are you still checking this part for? go buy it damnit! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Star_Wars117
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 1, 2007 11:35 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay is great. Your a evil overlord of a small country side with many villages and towns and 
 enemys to destory. You can be good our evil depending on how you do your quests. You also control 
 a small army of minions That will help you in your evildoing. Graphics are good but xbox 360 version 
 does have the best. Enviroments are nice and details on the main charcter and minions are nice. Sound 
 effects in overlord sound pretty good to. From birds chirping to the screams of the burning halflings 
 it sounds awsome! battle noises is good to. Voice acting is quite similar to that of Fable. The 
 game is a bit of a steap price of 39.99 but does give around 35 hours of gameplay.
  
  The Good: Amazing idea for a game. Similar to fable. Great sound
  
  The Bad: Some minor lag 
 issues and quite a demanding system specs.
  
  The Ugly: Worst controls ive ever seen in a game. Horrible Camera. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beckoflight
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 1, 2007 2:08 pm PT
Review:  I don't know why but from the firts momment that i saw te trailer from this game i was sure that 
 its funy &amp; very fun to play &amp; i wasn't wrong at all ! Trimph studios did a great job to 
 create a compeling game with you beeing the really bad guy with a Sauron cent but with out the 
 eye &amp; a tower ( your fortress ) that expands forever as you capture or raid teritories &amp; 
 towns ! At te begginign the story dosen't feel very complex but as you progress thru the game you 
 will se that its top notch but in a funy way with a twisted wacky fantasy ! The main focus of the 
 game is the minions wich are the main atraction of the game they wil kill , steal die for you &amp; 
 they to it with out any second thoughts the controls are quite intuitive &amp; in rare situations 
 it gives you troubble but in the rest its ok .... given to the wackii minions a very god part of 
 the game is the sound wich blends perfect in the atmosphere of the game but olso the art &amp; 
 level design wich will sure let you stuned &amp; wonder how can this kind of artwork is used in 
 a funny game like this &amp; not in a more serios game ! Due to the superb artwork &amp; a good 
 thing about the game that should be mentioned is the engine that povides a superb enviroments that 
 gives you the impresion that you live in a dream &amp; the best thing about the engine is that 
 it can run smoothly evan on lower PC heck a friend of mine si playing it at allmost max setting 
 on a Ati radeon 9800 pro but if you want the true feeling you will need at least an X1650 or if 
 you have the money a 2900 XT ! I recomend this game to everyone of every age its fun but with a 
 very dynamic evolution system that can capture everybody's taste ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RelXe
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 6, 2007 2:04 am PT
Review:  First of all, Fantastic looking game. Graphics couldnt have been any nicer. And thats just the 
 graphics, the character models are also very fun to look at. Just cant grow tired of the stupid 
 little Goombo birds and Peasents.
  Gameplay; the controls work pretty good. The way you can lock objects and enemy's and sway your 
 minions through passes where you cant enter, almost perfect. Because there are still some bugs 
 there like drowning now and then and sometimes 1 minion gets stuck on the bridge/tree/root or whatever. 
 One of the best things about the game ( guess it's something personall ) is the humor. I love the 
 humor in the game :) the only bad thing about it is that in the beginning there's allot of humor 
 but it gets lesser every minute.
  
  Great graphics, great sound, good gameplay besides the few bugs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VitaExodus
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 31, 2007 7:43 am PT
Review:  So, you want to be an evil guy, hmm? Plunder villages, send minions to do your will, and solve 
 strange puzzles involving moving your little guys everywhere? Well, you might want to take a look 
 at overlord. So the story goes the overlord before you kicked the bucket and now the little imps 
 want you to help them get back to work, rebuild their tower, and just be evil, basically.
  
  You'll start out in a dump of a tower, but you'll see it start to grow ever so greatly with 
 enough work at it. The gameplay formula hasn't really quite been seen in the form it's taken here, 
 it's close to pikmin but a slightly different style: Although you do move them around and solve 
 puzzles, the majority of it is hack-n'-slash + moving around the minions. It's surprisingly intuitive, 
 which you really have to try to find out.
  
  The graphics are, well, lackluster. The fields you start in look pretty damned good, but once you 
 start looking in evernight or whatever it's called, you'll see it tends to go more towards the 
 xbox-level graphics. It doesn't hurt that bad in the environments, but it sure does for the people, 
 it looks almost like that damned perfect dark zero game in quality, which certainly doesn't help.
 
  
  The sound is quite good, the music hits just the right spot, mostly medieval music, even green 
 sleaves at one point.
  
  The game will take you roughly 20 hours to get it all done, which isn't too shabby.
  
  So, 
 what's not so good about overlord? Well, like I mentioned, the graphics leave much to be desired, 
 the minions can be quite frustrating sometimes as they can go rampant without you able to control 
 them at all. The fact that they named a thief character Jewel, and a gold-hungry dwarf named goldo, 
 is a bit of a turn off, I'm not playing goddamned pok&eacute; mon here...
  
  Nonetheless, give it a rent and you may enjoy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gragnak
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jul 31, 2007 1:48 am PT
Review:  Ok.
  This is not a game for pc. This is a console game. So don't expect real RPG elements or a Dungeon 
 Keeper successor.
  You'll spend your time traveling together with your little, dirty, ugly slaves casting destruction 
 everywhere. The controls are better suited for a game pad, so managing your little army's not always 
 easy. But if you change some key in the setup menu and rearrange your mouse/keyboard buttons, you 
 can find a way to play without too much stress for you poor fingers.......
  Graphic fx and textures are good but not the state of the art.
  Music is fair and sound fxs tend 
 to get a little bit repetitive.
  Your slaves voices are really funny.
  I've to admit there's a lot of fun in killing and destroying. Being a dark lord of evil in a strange 
 fantasy world where all classic fantasy races are depicted in a foul and grotesque way made me 
 laugh a lot.
  
  So I suggest to play it but do not expect something highly addictive or innovative. If you like 
 console games, this Overlord experience is for you. But if you like rpgs or RTS or some hybrids 
 (like Disciples series) , this game's not for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Homes225
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 31, 2007 12:04 pm PT
Review:  Story: You're an Overlord, Awoken after many years you will control your minions and rule all!
 
  
  Graphics: Different art style, Fable-Esque
  
  Audio: Hilarious dialogue, Always funny to hear For you master! 
  
  Missions: Your run of the 
 mill quests, Save damsel, kill big boss, get gold, etc. Controls: Innovative minion mouse controls, 
 Not so much keyboard controls.
  
  Features: Minion control, Tower customization, forging your own weapons
  
  A. I.: Minions are 
 smart, pillage what you want them to, retrieve items for you, kill all each with their own skills
 
  
  Loading Times: Quick, Not many
  
  Multiplayer: Not the most exciting but different at most
  
  Requirements: Average, A little 
 demanding
  
  Weapons: Mainly your minions but you can forge and use your own armor and weapons such as axes, 
 maces, and swords.
  
  The Good: New idea of evil and minion control
  
  The Bad: Can get frustrating due to controls not working out, same with camera angles, only at 
 times though.
  
  The Ugly: Your right hand minions, Gnarl
  
  Replay Ability: About twice, one doing all good, one doing all evil
  
  The Bottom Line: A fun 
 game that adds a new mark on the RPG world with innovative minion control and customization of 
 your hero. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Neverness
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jul 28, 2007 12:36 pm PT
Review:  Overlord treads that fine line between being a fun game and being a pretty, but vapid, game and 
 the results are a little mixed. Many people have blasted the controls as being awkward but they 
 are not so difficult that it ruins the game. Once you get the hang of how to move the Overlord 
 and the minions, it is intuitive. I never ran into a spot where I was cursing the controls -- the 
 combat and game play in general is more puzzle-based than twitch-based. If you try to bull your 
 way through, you will die. If you plan your moves, you'll succeed. The concept of the game is appealing 
 but the hype is better than the actual delivery. You don't really get to do very much that is truly 
 evil and vile; all of your evil acts are relatively saccharine and there is not much change to 
 the actual game whether you are evil or really evil besides some cosmetic effects (the tower gets 
 darker and more ominous, the Overlord's armor boasts spikes, etc) .
  I found this disappointing but once I accepted the tongue-in-cheek nature of the game, I began 
 to enjoy it.
  
  The game does not have very many areas, but they are all well-imagined and crafted. The halfling 
 village looks and feels like something out of Bagshot Row, the various caverns are unique and you 
 do not feel like you are going into yet *another* dungeon, and the other stages are similarly varied. 
 Really good job of creating atmosphere.
  
  The minions are also very fun and they really sell the game. They all have serious psychological 
 disorders that make them extremely wild and they have a deep-seated hatred of sheep. They are all 
 very aggressive and just mob and beat the enemies down in a wave of teeth and weapons. Any items 
 they find become their new weapons and armor, which leads to some pretty hilarious results. The 
 Brown Minions can end up wearing little red riding hoods, skulls, rat corpses, ninja-esque hoods, 
 miner helmets, chef's hats, crowns, and arm themselves with an equally amusing variety of weapons 
 like daggers, pitchforks, axes, zombie forearms, bar-b-que forks, swords, and bug antennas. Watching 
 them grab items and declare It's mine! and do a little dance is always funny.
  
  As I mentioned before, most of the game is a puzzle. While you can release the minions and watch 
 them hack enemies apart most of the time you have to plan things more carefully or all your minions 
 will die. You fight trolls several times and your minions will climb all over the trolls as they 
 stab it, but if the troll does a belly-flop then about all your minions are killed. Most enemies 
 are in situations where you have to plan how to kill them with minimal minion losses which is satisfying 
 when you figure it out, but it really kills replay value.
  
  Overall, Overlord is a fun game and has lots of personality. It would benefit from about 15 more 
 hours of content, though. It actually ends rather abruptly and leaves things open for a sequel 
 or an expansion. My main gripe is that it is too short and there is not much replay value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frankgyeats
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jul 27, 2007 1:55 pm PT
Review:  There are a lot of good things going for this game. While you are playing an indescribably evil 
 tyrant over good, you never feel that you're doing something so evil that it makes you cringe. 
 Think of it as more of the fairy tale style of evil, rather than the epic evil you'd see in something 
 more elaborate like Lord of the Rings, and you have the idea. You're not so much smiting everything 
 in existence as much as you are making them intimidated by your shiny armor and your minion horde.
 
  The minions definitely set this game apart as a humorous and handy tool for your overlord. Playing 
 with the minions alone is worth renting the game for a few days, just to watch them leap upon a 
 sheep's back while they club it over the head, if nothing else. While they are killable at an alarmingly 
 high rate at points, they rarely felt in the way or a burden. By the end of the game, your character 
 can be almost overwhelmingly powerful, and you might spend a fair amount of time fighting off beetles 
 in order to receive extra minions in your arsenal, but they certainly remain key to your victory 
 throughout the entire game. Your growth in power compared to early game is a nice feeling, giving 
 a little more of that epic feeling to the power you have, once you're able to hack through opponents 
 that once would have easily overwhelmed you.
  At times the game feels repetitive, but this was a feeling mostly derived from trying to bolster 
 enough forces in order to upgrade various skills. There are other minor problems as well: the lack 
 of a mini-map was one of the major ones. There were several points throughout the game where I 
 felt slightly lost, or would follow a path only to discover I came back to where I started. While 
 experienced game players will probably not have much of a problem due to the overly linear action 
 in the game, it can become a bit disorienting in lands where your ability to see is limited. Camera 
 angles were at times awkward, but there were only a few instances where this caused much trouble. 
 Resources seemed to run a little low at points, but it was easy enough to collect a few thousand 
 here and there by late game.
  Overall, it is a very enjoyable game, and at least worth a rental, if not buying it. Once the price 
 goes down, it would be a great basic RPG that finds the space between Fable's extreme linear story 
 and Oblivion's vastness, and sets to some smiting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mlfolkman
Rating: 4.7
Date: Jul 26, 2007 2:24 pm PT
Review:  For the first few hours, this game is actually a blast. Basically, to summarize, it is just way 
 too repetitive. There just isn't enough happening to keep it interesting, and you're more of a 
 spectator in the game than a participant. The idea is, you run around with a pack of goblins, who 
 you direct with the right analog stick, and they attack or smash containers. At first, this is 
 pretty fun, and the goblins themselves can be rather amusing. The main problem with the game is 
 that it is utterly mindless... the goblins cant really do different attacks and there's really no 
 strategy to it. you just point them in a direction, and they mob things and break stuff. Over, 
 and over, and over, and over again. You get different types of goblins, 4 in all, and they have 
 some differences - some throw/absorb fire, some just club things, etc. But like I said, they basically 
 do what they do without much involvement from you, other than telling them where to go. The concept 
 to the game is interesting, but actually playing it leaves you pretty bored pretty fast. There 
 isn't enough strategy in it for strategy fans to stay interested, the action is mind-numbing, so 
 action/adventure fans won't stay interested, and there isn't much of an RPG element to it, either, 
 other than getting more health or learning a new spell (apparently of which there is only 4 in 
 the entire game) . luckily for me i snagged it as a rental, but to be honest, i didnt hardly play 
 it at all past the 1st day i had rented it. little kids may enjoy this, but as an adult, i expected 
 more, because it seemed to me this was a somewhat highly anticipated game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cuedon
Rating: 6.2
Date: Jul 26, 2007 12:44 pm PT
Review:  The story line of Overlord has just enough in it to keep you playing. It seems that their should 
 have been at least one or two cut scenes in the start, explaining some of your past. Since you 
 are left with this void of hatred (For your fathers death or the old overlord) you almost dont 
 feel like wasting your time vanquishing the so called baddies in the environment. If this game 
 was to be truly good in my books it would require bigger swings in the evil and good range. If 
 i was to go and kill a boss it would need to be eating humans or creating abominations with humans.... terrible 
 yes but evil yes yes. On the not so evil side of things the game fails to deliver a truly good 
 character, giving the game a lop sided feel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mutated_Nantuko
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 26, 2007 4:41 am PT
Review:  Been playing Overlord for a couple of days now and I keep going back to it. Either trying to max 
 out all of my armor/weapons, or increasing army strength, or just having fun in the Dungeon; this 
 game is fun.
  
  It won't win any awards for being groundbreaking, but it is a fantastic mix between Black &amp; 
 White and Pikmin. Sadly, this game could do with more multiplayer improvements, along with more 
 finite extremes to being Evil or Good.
  
  End line: Voice acting is great, story is charming, replayablity is still up in the air, and visuals 
 are up there with C&amp; C3 for an RTS. So if you have some cash, and nothing to spend it on, get 
 this game, it's worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gallesh
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 27, 2007 6:23 pm PT
Review:  Overlord really is a tastefull and an enjoyable game that will make hours pass without notice , 
 even the single player senario has 20-25 hours of gameplay for a good gamer... Being Badie Goodie 
 thing makes the campaign repetative and makes the titles life longer as it has to be. Past years 
 famous game Dungeon Keeper's theme surrounds the game , but it has also has a uniqeness of its 
 own with the excellent blending of RTS and RPG consepts. Gameplay , nicely designed levels , rpg 
 elements in an action-strategy game is sometimes enough for being a playable enjoyable game but 
 with that shiny , solid graphics (a little similarities with Fable's graphics (which is a good thing 
 actualley) ) and good quality sounds Overlord becomes more stronger then the way it goes.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: walcor
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jul 23, 2007 2:34 am PT
Review:  Overlord is something I have been waiting for a long time... but this fact alone doesn't make it 
 the best game I have played... Tough Overlord manages to rise great excitement.. it lacks some basic 
 gaming features. For instance the main character cant jump... whats up with that... he can't lift 
 things or push objects... and the weapons made in the forge have no stats like in Diablo... these 
 are some minor features that I would have gladly seen in overlord. Oh and 4 types of minions? hmm 
 thought there be more....
  For a intro game its good... but if they don't make a better sequel with all the features mentioned, 
 I believe that overlord will be over soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jd1680a
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 22, 2007 10:59 pm PT
Review:  Overlord is the latest game from Triumph Studios and published by Codemasters. The game primarily 
 focus on the player as being an overlord of an evil race of minions. These minions are loyal to 
 the overlord and will do follow him everywhere. They will loot, kill, and destroy anything the 
 overlord commands. It is with the aid of the minions the player is able to play throughout the 
 story and defeat seven heroes. The seven heroes destroyed the original Overlord and slowly become 
 corrupted with evil themselves.
  
  At the beginning of the game, the player starts off only controlling five minions. This army will 
 grow up to 35-40 by the time game ends. There are four types of minions, brown, red, green, and 
 blue. Each of them have unique abilities and help curve the strategy of the player throughout the 
 game. The browns (fighters) are the strongest of all the minions. Reds (archers) throws fire balls 
 and resistant to fire. Greens (assassins) jumps on an enemies back dealing lots of damage, they 
 are immuned to poisons. Blues (healers) are the weakest of the minions, they can resurrect dead 
 minions and the only ones who can go into water without drowning.
  
  The player starts off with a badly damaged tower. From the beginning and throughout mid way of 
 the game the player is set to rebuild his tower. Increased minion population, better magic abilities, 
 more health and mana can be found with objects in the game as the player goes through the storyline. 
 The player can get better armor by finding forges and taking it back to the tower. Gold is collected 
 and used to customize the tower by the players liking.
  
  It is known the game could take up to 15 hours to complete, if the person knew exactly what he 
 is doing and where to go. The gamemay last around 25 hours for some who like to take their time. 
 Overlord is a pretty entertaining game through the entire storyline. The minions adds some humor 
 into the game. Each time they come back with loot they will either say, treasure, for me, for you, 
 for the overlord !!! With all the mean time jumping up and down or running back with a wide open 
 smiling face. You can punish your minions by kicking them, all they do is get back up and stay 
 with their master. The game have very easy to use user interface for players to control their minions. 
 Simply holding down the shift key allows the player to select an item to pick up, to attack and 
 where to go. The minions does have some intelligence, if the player is point at a chests the minions 
 will automaticly run to those chests to break them open. Unfortunately, the minions do have their 
 weak spots. A player will want to get to a switch or chest that is either too far away or isnt 
 a direct line. The minion will run back if the chest is to far or run into the obstacle without 
 going around. Triumph Studio added a nice feature to help your minions. By holding both the left 
 and right mouse buttons a player can direct around the minions around thebarrier to that chest.
 
  
  The only real quirk with Overlord is the gameplay doesnt feel evil enough. Triumph Studio had to 
 keep to the evil down to avoid it being mature rated. If Overlord was mature rated, it could have 
 been a slightly better game with more interesting gameplay that would really felt evil.
  
  Overlord costs around $40 at most retail stores. With it being $20 cheaper then x360 version with 
 the exact same content and storyline, this is definitely a good buy. People who are looking into 
 this game and have a mid range processor with 1 gig of memory, and 256 mb video memory wouldnt 
 have no problem with lag. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZwOrb
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 22, 2007 2:55 pm PT
Review:  Overlord is in my eyes one of the better games of 2007, because I didn't have the feeling i needed 
 to finish the game because i bought it and otherwise it would be a waste of money. And I have that 
 feeling with alot of games lately everything is just the same. BUT not Overlord, no, no this games 
 is cool and it's something new then the newest unreal tournament or quake or whatever. The gfx 
 are mighty fine imo the sound is pretty cool and the gameplay is not hard like some say it's quite 
 easy once you went through the tutorial. Anyway this i a must play for anyone who likes something 
 new, being evil, and loads of funny stuff. I sure hope they are gonna make a sequel from this one. 
 It deserves one.!
  
  PILLAGE!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: astawicki12345
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jul 21, 2007 4:22 pm PT
Review:  Great Game But the camera angle and there is no map to know twhere you are going... the minons 
 are a little dumb of what they do ... it has a pikman feel to it... if you like pikman i would get 
 this game... i played like 20 adn i'm all most done... the cool thing is they is so much.. you can 
 cumtumize you castle too and amror... The story is that you a evil but good guy that you have a 
 choice to be a good guy or a bad guy... You have to fight many thing like halfings... and you get 
 4 minons 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shinida
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 21, 2007 10:19 am PT
Review:  I was very questionable on getting Overlord at first. I wasn't sure if it was the game I wanted 
 to spend my 60 bucks on. Let me get your mind straight right away. It's worth your $, if you ever 
 played pikmin, its 20x better than Pikmin. You are an evil lord, who can customize a cool dark 
 tower just for looks. The Overlord, you, goes around piliging and plundering all in it's way. Your 
 minions help you do so. The game is pretty funny, something that you rarely see in games. which 
 is a good thing, it doesn't take away from the game, only adds to it. You've never truly had any 
 choice of being a good evil or a evil evil. Corruption plays a major role in the game, and the 
 more evil you are the higher your corruption % is. You have magic powers, your own mistress, and 
 4 different types of minions that aid your journey. At first the game felt like Fable, EXTREMELY 
 closed off and small, but if you wonder a bit you'll find that there are many little cracks that 
 only your minions can go, or obstacles for you to overcome to get a little bit more cash. There 
 is lots of stuff to do, and it's easy to get a little loaded up on quests. Making it hard for you 
 to choose which one to do first. If you think this game is going to be really easy, you're wrong. 
 It starts out quite easy, but then turns into a difficult strategy game, where using your different 
 minions strength's aids you in battle. You will fight all sorts of mystical creatures, and huge 
 giants, the game is very deep. So are you still thinking about Overlord? Here look at it this way, 
 if this game caught your eye, but you're not sure because of the scores, take my word, get the 
 game. If it didn't catch your eye, don't get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flashtek
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 21, 2007 7:06 am PT
Review:  An extremely fun game that has me gaming again. Fresh game design and how I do love being call 
 Master and My Lord. The horde controls are a little goofy but solid game plays never the less. 
 Good solid levels and the artifacts are nicely placed. This game is not so tough that you needs 
 cheats or trainers but enough to keep it interesting. The first 30 min or so is for training and 
 just causing all kinds of grief on the local sheep population. Dont worry about the sheep they 
 respawn all the time. If you like making fun of the LOTR then you will like this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oni_black
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 21, 2007 5:36 am PT
Review:  aking control of a mysterious figure that has inherited the legacy of the long-dead evil Overlord, 
 the player emerges near death from the ruins of the old Overlord's Dark Tower. Only the player's 
 actions will determine if they will rise to become the new all-powerful Overlord; it's all up to 
 how bad they want to be in order to succeed ... evil or really evil! With a dark sense of humor, 
 the game immerses players in twisted parodies of classic fantasy stories and characters. In a unique 
 twist, players will have control over an army of an army of Minions that will use their unique 
 skills to fetch, fight and die for their new Overlord. Throughout the game players will actively 
 control a horde of these gremlin-like creatures that will follow every bidding no matter how whimsical 
 or life threatening it may be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lzblind
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 20, 2007 4:04 pm PT
Review:  Overlord is an ambitious title. Starting the game, you think it will be like those kinds of game 
 where you can cross the line between good and evil, act at your own will and see the consequences 
 of your act in the world and npcs. And some game producers finally noticed that we like to see 
 our actions modify the game world, it feels real, personal and special.
  
  But Overlord fails... Being good or evil in this game doesn't matter that much. There are some 
 situations that you can choose, but the impact in the game is minimal and if you get curious to 
 see it you will start thinking: man, I'll have to play this thing all over again just to see what 
 would happen if I didn't kill that guy, aff... .
  
  The game is somewhat open. Once you have opened an area, you will be able to come back to it. Game 
 producers are also starting to notice that we like to go back to visited areas, explore them once 
 more, test our new acquired powers against beaten opponents, and so on. So, this should be a good 
 new but it's not. Often you will find an area with an unreachable place and you will spend a lot 
 of time trying to reach it. After an hour, you quit and go away, discovering later that you needed 
 a special minion to reach that place. That's frustrating.
  
  In this game, you command minions to do your will, and this is the real fun of the game! You raise 
 your hand and your boys run, destroy, kill, burn everything. The good: you feel that they are extensions 
 of you, that YOU are destroying everything. Although you just stand and watch, the feeling is that 
 you are casting some sort of spell that is razing everything. The bad: you have only four types 
 of minions and later in the game, commanding a lot of them is useless since when you need them 
 most (against bosses for instance) commanding more of them just mean more of them will die. Each 
 of the four minions do something special (walk in the fire, swim) and the game will keep puzzling 
 you with situations that you must choose which of'em you choose to do this or that task. Boring... 
 (and it can get you stuck in the game) . They practically don't evolve. I imagine how great this 
 game could be with more minions to choose, like Dungeon Keeper.
  
  The game is about solving puzzles with you minions, commanding them to wreak havoc also get boring 
 sometime. Being good or evil doesn't change that much the game experience and the controls feels 
 like some bad adaptation from console to PC. It's very funny at first, but later it gets boring. 
 Makes you feel that the game was a good idea that could not evolve properly.
  
  I bet a lot of ppl thought: If I could get my ideas in this game... and that's what you will feel, 
 something missing to make the game great. Rent it and maybe you will have some fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alexel23
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jul 19, 2007 11:49 am PT
Review:  It is obvious that this game offers fun hours of play, but unfortunately too few of them. It is 
 very short, and it can be seen clearly that's a game built in a rush. It has semi-severe technical 
 issues, in medium/high details even the strongest computers have trouble running it fluent. The 
 gameplay is new to the genre, the controls are fare enough easy and simple eliminating user utilization 
 issues. The multiplayer of Overlord is terrible , full of bugs but if you have luck with another 
 player it cam be really exciting and be sure of at least 3-4 hours of engagement in the adventure. 
 Another drawback is that once you complete the game you can't do much of anything in the previous 
 explored areas except killing bugs, sheep and peasants. Still, Overlord per global is a fun adventure 
 for even the exigent gamers of the RPG/Adventure genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jack4571
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 18, 2007 11:18 am PT
Review:  An awesome game but a few complaints one the boss battles where dull except the elf the wizard 
 and the paladin but I think everyone who didnt like this game played it like a strategy game when 
 you can pay like an action game. Ok strategy games have there place to (garbage) some like age 
 of empires are good but after that they copied it and werent fun at all but like I was saying 
 if you run out there by your lonesome self you die the trick is in balancing your fighting and 
 minions fighting also the game has lots of humor such as in spree if they like you one woman (says 
 not making this up) Is that a pumpkin in your pocket, or are you just happy to se me?
  Lol some other stuff is funny but you have to be there but the biggest flaw was the fact that there 
 were only about 12 voce actors and when all the men in a town (25 or so) have two voce actors between 
 them it gets painfully obvious.
  
  There being about 6 places you can go there is a lot of verity in enemies and quests the most annoying 
 has to be the Zombie out brake in heavens peek or the see serpents mini boss hard as can be but 
 all in all an awesome game I felt I deserved better than what game spot gave it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deadeyeloi
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 16, 2007 10:52 am PT
Review:  This is my 1st review, PLS be nice. i always trusted gamespot review but this time i just cant 
 stay quiet. the game may be easy but its fun and refreshing. Your evil minon is actually quite 
 cute, combat effect is great, especially when your green minion stick on your enemy :) you will 
 understand when you see it. Boss fight is great, funny and fun but a bit too easy. What i like 
 about it most is its funny and great story, it also has simple but good control. The role playing 
 could still improve, because your choices will only effect corruption level which affect the ending, 
 it has little effect to the gameplay or story, it is also quite short, but it is still a great 
 experience. Pls try, i assure you gamespot definately underappreciated this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: amareen18
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 15, 2007 4:20 pm PT
Review:  when you hear the name overlord you know that its a game where you have to be evil and kill people 
 but after a while you relies that its almost has nothing to do with being evil after all its rated 
 T the main objective in the game is to become the overlord of all the village's around you and 
 basically you are a good overlord so you will have to help the peasants in the village's first 
 of all thing's the game play is the best thing the game where you can control a horde of minions 
 who will do anything for you so you don't have to do anything they will kill anybody for you smash 
 anything up and because they don't have any brains and stupid (here comes the fun part) even if 
 you let them run to the water they will run and drown their self's and they are not that hard to 
 control but you will need a little time to get used to it the graphics are very good and the minions 
 they made them at a very good quality and the world seems perfect the sound is great the minions 
 voices a great a humorous story good voices in the game theres is nothing with the sound its just 
 perfect
  
  the game does have its flaws like sometimes your minions get stack somewhere and they can't free 
 them self's or find the way and being overlord and control your minions doesn't necessarily mean 
 that your evil and if you are disappointed that its isn't a very evil game don't be it doesn't 
 mean that its not a fun game being good in it so if anybody thinking of buying it i recommend it 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TA127
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 14, 2007 9:28 am PT
Review:  What I mostly like about Hack &amp; Slash games is the atmosphere...
  The game has a realy nice, Fablish atmosphere (which i like) , that makes you feel a bit like a real 
 Overlord... evryone obey you, you can do what-ever you want and there is no-one stonger then you (almost) ...
 
  
  Now the gameplay.... its very fun, keybord conrols are a bit annoying...
  The very original idea of the nice looking and colorful minions give the game something special. There 
 are a lot of things to gain and change in the game.
  The Overlord is NOT evil at all
  (how can you be evil when the game is rated T) .
  The Overlord's attacking ability seems useless 
 when you have your minions (wich in a hord are sronger then you) with you. The game is very easy (very) .
 
  
  Sound... great.. i can't say more.
  
  Graphics... good, and maybe too good for most of the PCs (my two year old very good PC cannot run 
 it well)
  
  Value... satisfying number of hours of fun gameplay worth even more then the 30$ i paid.
  
  
 To wrap it up i say Overlord is a great, funny and fun to play game with a fantastic story-line 
 that Hack &amp; Slash gamers should own! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: saaoba
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jul 14, 2007 5:29 am PT
Review:  As the titular overlord, you begin the game having just been resurrected by your minions, and your 
 dark kingdom is in shambles. Your dark tower is a ruinous mess, you've got but a handful of subservient 
 followers, and the local villagers are cowering in fear of forces other than yourself. This simply 
 will not do. Powerful practitioner of might and magic that you are, you could go the hands-on route 
 in rebuilding your tower and crushing the wills of the peasants; but then, what's the point of 
 being the overlord if you've got to do everything yourself? This is why you have minions, the scampering, 
 mischievous little gremlins that are the heart and soul of Overlord. Though the game presents itself 
 as a third-person action RPG where you control the overlord, it's more of a real-time strategy 
 game. Either way, it's a very good-looking game, with the kinds of soft lighting and quaint high-fantasy 
 settings that characterized Fable, though once you get past the aesthetics, it proves to have more 
 in common with Nintendo's Pikmin games for the GameCube. Though you can perform some basic magic 
 and melee attacks as the overlord, it's your minions that will be doing all your heavy lifting. 
 The control scheme for Overlord is a little unusual, since you'll be controlling the overlord's 
 movement as well as the minions'. The PC version offers both mouse-and-keyboard and dual-analog 
 gamepad control schemes, and they're both totally useable, but they've both got their fair share 
 of quirks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Celine_Aensland
Rating: 5.3
Date: Jul 14, 2007 12:06 am PT
Review:  When I first heard rumours of this game, I was hoping for a Dungeon Keeper successor - you know, 
 that RTS where you expand your dungeon, attract minions, and inflict misery upon the heroes who 
 venture within. Sadly, Overlord is far from that. In fact, the great majority of the quests you 
 undertake (as the Overlord) could be hero-type quests. The only evil you can do is perhaps in how 
 you treat random NPCs - and even this is limited to 'do the right thing' or 'keep the loot for 
 yourself' (admittedly, you can slay them, but that doesn't affect anything.
  
  Graphics-wise, Overlord looks nice. I'm not one to dwell on the prettiness of things, but since 
 you're viewing the action in very close 3rd person view (practically fps) , it doesn't hurt that 
 you can see plenty of nice details, such as the various pieces of equipment on your minions as 
 they pick things up and wear them. Lighting and spell effects look fairly nice too. My main gripe 
 though is how fast and jerky the camera seems when you swing your mouse around. I don't play too 
 many fps-type games, and this is a concern for me, especially since in Overlord the camera is locked 
 to your mouse - meaning that every jerk, twitch, and shove of the mouse causes your view to change 
 very fast. I feel the eyestrain while getting used to the game, although to seasoned fps gamers 
 this probably isn't an issue (you're forced to learn to control the mouse more smoothly) . I'd rather 
 they used a point-and-click-to-move-there interface and used a camera that required manual rotation.
 
  
  The gameplay is where Overlord starts falling apart. Sure, you control a bunch of minions who loyally 
 follow you and do what you tell them to do (mostly just fight or move levers or pick stuff) to 
 the best of their (limited) ability. But after a while you realise that it's basically a puzzle 
 game, with some combat thrown in. You move your minions here, tell them to push that switch there, 
 get them to bring the missing parts here, click frantically on an enemy to send them to attack 
 it. That's about it, more or less. You yourself aren't very resilient, in fact most of the time 
 I find myself just directing my minions, a task that can be accomplished WITHOUT using an avatar, 
 merely by pointing and clicking my minions at something. Honestly, I felt my in-game role as Overlord 
 to be extremely superfluous. Wading into combat with him wasn't fun either; you don't have too 
 much life nor inflict that much damage, and when your minions are in the way (read: every single 
 time, unless you often rush enemies by yourself) , you often end up kicking them when you meant 
 to swing at the enemy.
  
  There's not much to do, really; talk to NPCs to get some info, move on to the next map area, solve 
 puzzles, deal with the enemies in the way, that's it. No doubt the Teen rating had a hand in this, 
 but this is one of those few games which don't deserve their titles. Hell, you could replace the 
 Overlord with a grumpy hero and nobody would notice. Villagers don't flee at the sight of you; 
 you don't indulge in an orgy of killing; you don't go invading and conquering; you HELP people. 
 What sort of villain are you?! Even Disney's bad guys had more style.
  
  Ultimately, Overlord is a short, one-way romp. Don't even talk about replayability, unless you 
 want to see how many people you can slaughter on your next time around (out of sheer boredom and 
 malice after having being forced to be their errand boy during your first time around) . As a puzzle 
 game too, Overlord is fairly simple. There are specific types of minions, who can deal with specific 
 types of obstacles - for example, OH NOES, your path is barred by fire. Simply send forth the minions 
 who can deal with fire. That's it. I would have rated the game Very Easy except for a couple of 
 minor interface and control issues - like, you CAN'T save: the game autosaves for you at certain 
 points, or you can save at your tower at the end of missions (or even during them, if you don't 
 mind bailing out and losing your current minions) .
  
  This game should've been named babysit a bunch of minions through some puzzles . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vladx12
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jul 13, 2007 2:15 pm PT
Review:  When i heard there was a game that allows you to become Evil i thought maybe it will be a good 
 one but... it turned out to be preety disapointing...
  
  When you hear that you are the Overlord, you will begin to think that you are a total badass that 
 can destroy total armys all by himself right?
  In overlord... thats not how it goes...
  to put it simply... you cant defeat even 10 really weak enemies such as the Halflings by yourself. 
 and you minions are Alot more powerfull than you.
  
  In overlord when you capture your first village and begin to kill pepole, they are not becomeing 
 more afraid of your minion army, or doing what you tell them... becose you cant tell them to do anything! 
 and they will start fighting back...
  
  After spending more then 3-6 hours it all becomes boring and repetitive.
  The games main missions 
 go like this:
  Get inside an enemy building, kill everything, get the tresure, continue killing everyone, kill the 
 boss, find new minions, Repet.
  
  You might think that the missions you get are Evil.
  but they are not really evil missions but more like heroic quests.
  when you complete the mission 
 objective such as retriving food for the Village that was taken by the halflings, you know what 
 the most Evil thing you can do? Take the food to your castle for yout minions and yourself... yeah, Thats 
 really evil.....
  
  Overlord is a game with a great idea, but it dosent realise its full potential
  if you could tell 
 pepole what to do, have blood in the game (A lot of it... you are evil arent you?!) and giving you 
 Really evil things to do...
  It might be a kick ass game, sure it may have M+ rating becose of the fetures
  but it would become 
 a greater game.
  
  Final words:
  If you like repetitive gameplay, a tiny bit of evil in it, and being called an almighty overlord 
 even if you cant kill anything by yourself... by all means buy this game. if your not sure download 
 the demo and try it for yourself before actually considering buying it.
  
  I really hope they would improve the next game (if there will be one...)
  becose it has an original 
 and great idea.
  7.3/10
  VladX12 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ggunsmith
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jul 13, 2007 4:01 am PT
Review:  One of the biggest issues with this game is that it becomes tedious after a while  the game revolves 
 around puzzles and the puzzles tend to be very similar to each other. Nothing really much changes 
 between the puzzles and you can expect yourself doing the same things over and over again. There 
 is also quite a rude bug in the game where your progress can be halted. While the PC version can 
 be solved by installing a patch, the 360 guys would have to contend with a work around. Another 
 big issue is that the game is just too short. It is way too easy to finish the game in a short 
 period of time. I would put the game play at around 10-20 hrs to finish it. In terms of replayablity, 
 this game gets boring too fast. The only difference you could do in ur singleplayer campaign is 
 to be evil or good (using good loosely here) . But being evil or good does not have too much of 
 a difference in the game. In short, I dont think it is fair to give this game a very good rating 
 as the interest of the game dies way too fast. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brain20035
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 13, 2007 12:59 am PT
Review:  The fact that Overlord is a completely new experience may cause the doubt over weather it's a good 
 game or not. on this matter it's sufficient to say, YES! it's not only a good game, but it's a 
 great fun!
  
  when I heard that codemasters where making this game, the idea of commanding a small little army 
 and going through towns and pillaging them, didn't inspire me much. But when I finally decided 
 to buy the game and played it, I wasn't disappointed at all, Infact I was enjoying this game!
 
  
  As an Overlord you will get to command a small army of some creatures called minions and by their 
 help you will go after quests to maintain your tower's past glory and also spread your rule over 
 the land. There are some heroes that you need to defeat, and some objects that you need to recover. 
 In other details, for example you will need to get the crane from the halflings in order to repair 
 damages made in all these years that you were not here. There are many other enjoyable quests such 
 as finding a mistress for your tower or crashing a halfling party, etc.
  
  In order to get through some missions you will need to use special types of minions. there are 
 4 types of minions:
  1browns : good for fighting and other minion stuff such as pillaging and... killing 2. Reds: these 
 can cross fire or make way through it for you and have a long ranged attack, but like archers in 
 strategic games you can't rely on them in close combat.
  3. Greens : these sneaky minions have the ability to go through poisonous fields and also they can 
 vanquish the vegetarians that cause the poison.
  4. Blues: these are the only types of minions that can cross water, since the others will get drown 
 in the water in a rather funny way !
  
  Aside from quest objects, there are other objects throughout the land that will help you increase 
 your health or mana (yes you can do some magic) or also increase the number of minions you can 
 command. in order to take them to your castle you will just have to command enough minions to carry 
 the item to the nearest waypoint portal where it will be automatically be transported to your tower. 
 also you yourself can be transported to your tower through these portals. there are some other 
 portals in the game that are used to summon minions (each minion has its own portal) that you can 
 call minions from. you will need different life forces for each minion to summon, and they can 
 be collected by killing special types of livings!
  
  decorating your tower is fun too! you can also forge new weapons or upgrade your current ones with 
 a tower smelter which you will gather later in the game. did I just say weapons? add armor and helmets 
 to it.
  
  graphics and sounds are inspiring enough to keep you running through the world.
  
  all in all, 
 Overlord is a new gaming experience that shouldn't be missed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Revolution_DDM
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jul 12, 2007 11:40 pm PT
Review:  Overlord is a game where you essentially get to be an evil being, wreaking havoc on the weak and 
 crushing everything in your path. Sounds fun, right? It is, for a while at least.
  
  Gameplay: 6
  The controls for this game weren't terrible, but they sure were awkward. The gameplay 
 was unsatisfying, to say the least. Sure I get to crush everything, kill anyone, be evil, but somehow, 
 they've made this feel like a chore, more than anything. I found the gameplay boring and repetitive 
 after the first 30 minutes. Upgrading your castle and Overlord make the game slighty more bearable, 
 but nothing too spectacular.
  
  Graphics: 8
  The graphics were satisfactory. The quirky minions looked fairly nice. Not much to say. They weren't 
 the best graphics in the world, but they fit the game nicely.
  
  Sound: 8
  Overall, pretty good. Your minions voices get pretty annoying after awhile. Not much to praise, 
 but nothing to criticize either really.
  
  Value: 6
  Overlord had a lot of awesome concepts that could have really been a blast if integrated into the 
 game correctly. The lackluster combat and awkward camera and controls pushed me away from the game 
 rather than pulled me towards it. I found myself forcing myself to play it, I found no joy in the 
 end.
  
  Overall: 6.8
  This game could've been a lot better, but it's worth playing. Great ideas, that just didn't turn 
 out all that well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BioShockFanatic
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 12, 2007 3:19 am PT
Review:  First of all Overlord is not very evil game, it's rated T for teen (I dont understand this rating, 
 if there's even a small drip of blood or a tiny flash of naked flesh its rated T in less than a 
 second) .
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  If I remember right, in the Gamespot review the reviewer said that after the first parts of the 
 game the minion control gets tricky, well I can say that it isn't so tricky for me. Of course you 
 have to think a little bit will you put the more vulnerable minions in the frontline or will you 
 put them to a better position?
  
  And the most important character of course, the Overlord. In the beginning you dnt get to do much 
 with the Overlord but later you will need him, and it's fun to get new armor and weapons to smite 
 the sinful infidels such as halflings, humans, etc..
  
  A few spoilers ahead, capn!! 
  
  The game has a very nice sense of humor too, one of them is in the early parts of the game, 
 when you encounter halflings. First I was like ok I'll go and smack those bitches , but when I 
 saw their homes and started thinking, that's like from LOTR and Overlord looks like Sauron..? 
 
  
  I don't know if this on purpose but I found it funny. That's not even the best in the game, there 
 is more to come.
  
  GRAPHICS:
  Some players might be scared of the things some people say, like be sure that your computer can 
 run this game . I don't have a super duper nolifer's wet dream computer, a medium end computer.
 
  
  I got a message from the installer, which was something like your system is not good enough, you 
 might encounter some blah blah . Well I was a bit shocked at first, and tried out medium/high settings. 
 Well I didnt have any problems running it, except when there was a huge swarm of zombies to be 
 smited.
  
  The game's environment looks beautiful, especially when the bloom effect is on. SOUNDS:
  The 
 sounds are great, especially the ones of the minions, they actually might make you smile, and the 
 burning enemies shouting is just great and is nice for your ears.
  
  
  Overall the gameplay is fun and highly addictive and this is definettly your game if you like controlling 
 a horde of minions that are both cute and disgustng at the same time. plus smiting sinners with 
 the Overlord is great fun. Great game, definetly worth buying.
  
  BTW dont let your minions drink too much beer, you will see what happens. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kubilius
Rating: 7.1
Date: Jul 12, 2007 3:18 am PT
Review:  I watched the trailers and decided to acquire this game, but as it happens with most movies - the 
 trailer was better than the game itself :)
  
  I was kinda hoping this will be a first-person Dungeon Keeper, mixed with Oblivion or smth similar, 
 not sure actually what I expected. But i surely did not expect that this game will become so boring 
 in a few hours.
  
  Maybe it's just me, but I really hate games where you don't have options - you HAVE TO go and kill 
 some troll, move some stone or rescue farmers. You can't go build your Liar, gather resources, 
 raise minions, etc. So basically the game is a 3D children fairy tale, where you run around some 
 beatifully made landscape, click 2 mouse buttons, send your minions and let them do all the job. 
 Then you see another movie and carry on clicking 2 mouse buttons. The graphics is great, minions 
 are funny, but what is the point of this game? Where is the satisfaction of playing? When you play 
 Total War - you conquer cities, build armies. When you play some RPG, you boost your character, 
 explore new places. And here - you get more minions, so you have to click right mouse button faster... 
 Not to mention that the Gold you gather, which is the only resource you acquire, has no point (at 
 least I gathered some 10 000 but didn't have where to spend it yet) .
  
  So basically - just another shiny 3D game, without any soul inside. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dale22x
Rating: 6.1
Date: Jul 9, 2007 9:15 pm PT
Review:  Well I got this game because i really enjoyed the demo. The idea of being evil, controlling the 
 minions both really apealed to me and it seemed like there would be a pretty interesting story. 
 Unfortunaly each of those where disapointing in the full version. I didnt' realy get to be very 
 evil, other than killing humans here and there, you are playing the role of a hero. you're not 
 being evil it's more like all the hero's have turned evil and you have turned good. THe minion 
 control like in the demo was alot of fun, until i got my secnd tribe, then the controle get in 
 the way of having fun. As for story, none really appear to exist. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: geldonyetich
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 9, 2007 2:28 pm PT
Review:  Overlord, a tongue-in-cheek game that has your dark armored figure plodding through a fantasy land 
 trailing a horde of gleeful gremlins, is surprisingly open-ended. I expected the game to force 
 me to complete certain quests to unlock the next area but rarely has this been the case. Instead, 
 the only limiting factor is what types of creatures you have at your disposal, and I unlocked all 
 four in about 6 hours of play. The game feels as though it's only a quarter complete. Thus, Overlord 
 is even more open-ended than a Zelda game, where areas are blocked off by access to one of several 
 tools. Although, to the average Zelda game's credit, Overlord does not offer the mobility of wide 
 open fields but rather predefined paths through lush hand-crafted environments.
  
  Were the open-endedness of where you go next not enough, there's also good incentive to revisit 
 old areas, as the loot and creatures will respawn upon the next visit, and a rather impressive 
 economic model drives this. Accumulating loot allows you to expand your tower with (so far) cosmetic 
 additions or (more practically) forge new pieces of your overlord's equipment. Life force points 
 translate directly into how many creatures you have at your disposal and come in the very same 
 four kinds: brown, red, green, and blue. Life force points are easily harvested to the point where 
 you would have to be pretty sloppy with the lives of your minions to ever truly run out. However, 
 you can also sacrifice your creatures to upgrade your already forged equipment. As a result, you've 
 got some incentive to go back to grind gold and life force in what's essentially a level-less game.
 
  
  The majority of the charm of the game has to do with the creatures who perform the mischief you 
 command with sheer enthusiasm. These little guys have considerably more character than Pikmen, 
 tearing apart rooms, grabbing loot, and gleefully throwing themselves in harms way. What's more, 
 they seem to have a tenative grasp of the English language, giving them an avenue of communication 
 that bolsters the illusion. It's hard not to enjoy having a gremlin horde at your disposal.
  
  The Overlord himself is not merely a spectator. He can actually inflict damage by executing 
 a simple weapon combo that varies depending on which of the three weapons he is currently using 
 (axe, sword, or mace) and carries a decent punch. He can also cast four different types of spells. 
 Each type has three levels of power that have a varying effect but consume more and more mana. 
 Still, despite the Overlord's apparent talents, if you value your health bar you'll keep him out 
 of the middle of the fray and let the minions do the work. Besides, it would be a rather boring 
 game if controlling your Overlord was all you could do, and the control of the minions is what 
 boosts this above being one of those poor 3D fantasy games I've discarded many a time.
  
  My greatest complaint about the game would be that Blues and (to a lesser extent) Greens seem unnecessary 
 and difficult to use. The Browns, the very first of your minions, possess both the greatest offensive 
 and defensive power. The Reds are useful because they are your only ranged fighters and can perform 
 one-sided attacks on foes that can't reach them. Greens are not very useful because they're weaker 
 than browns and can only do good damage if you can get them on the back of your opponents. The 
 Green's capacity to hide in guard mode is not very useful in my experience. Blues are pathetic, 
 offensively and defensively, their only real boon being the ability to transverse water and resurrect 
 their fallen comrades. Resurrections would be great but the interface is too awkward to get it 
 done consistently. Often, my attempts to ressurrect fallen minions end up in accidentally sending 
 my Blues into melee, where they are easily and rapidly killed.
  
  If I had to say one overreaching comment about this game, it would be that it is finished. Overlord 
 is a complete and polished game and such a thing is somewhat a rarity in the PC gaming world these 
 days. Unfortunately, as I get deeper in the game, I've found myself having to struggle with a forced 
 requirement of taking along the less useful minions. The interface is somewhat console-hobbled, 
 built around a buttoned game pad controller, and consequently it's harder to direct four types 
 of minions than I wish. However, the thing about interface issues is your have the capacity to 
 adapt to them, and perhaps in time I'll learn my way around this awkwardness. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mekon
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 9, 2007 11:19 am PT
Review:  My first impression of this game got a thumbs up from me as it looks and sounds great. The world 
 you get to explore looks &amp; feels very impressive. Your little evil minions really make it shine 
 with their funny chattering and shrieking as well. Sending them forth to smash, loot and pillage 
 is pretty good fun although of course as you might expect it does wear thin after a while. Also 
 the characters you meet and their voice acting is superb. Overall the presentation and comedy value 
 is superb.
  
  Unfortunately this game is let down by two things. The first and maybe most important thing is 
 game design. So far I have saved a peasant village from marauding halfling attacks, returned a 
 lost supply of food to the villagers, rescued a load of them, killed a monstrous giant evil halfling 
 hero and now I am saving a twisted forest by killing blood drinking evil unicorns and attempting 
 to destroy a deranged sleeping elf who is tainting the forest with evil dreams. So what happened 
 to being evil then? Did they just forget to include that part? So the game is actually all about 
 doing good things for people and killing all the evil things NOT the other way around which is 
 what it should be. Of course you CAN kill the peasants if you want but there is no reward or incentive 
 for doing so and the game actually encourages you to choose the good options. How stupid!! I dont 
 want to save bloody peasants..... I want to enslave them! I dont want to kill blood drinking unicorns..... I 
 want to recruit them! This game should be renamed and repackaged as Good Fluffy Overlord - Saviour 
 of peasants and Slayer of all things evil . Its clear that Codemasters have great artists, 3d modellers, 
 sound engineers etc but when it comes to simple basic game design they are just dumb as F%$*!
 
  
  Second glaring problem is the way you save the game. It relies on the terrible, dreaded, outdated 
 savepoint that stupid console games use. Aaaagggghhhh!!! I HATE savepoints! I want to save my game 
 anywhere I like. I dont want to die or make a mistake and be forced to replay the entire bloody 
 level!! This is a PC game not a crappy console game! Grrrrrrr.
  
  So yeah basicly this game could have been great but because the game is NOT what it says it is 
 &amp; the game designers decided that savepoints are the way to go then this game is just plain 
 old average. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DavidBeoulve
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jul 9, 2007 10:47 am PT
Review:  Overlord is a 3rd person 3d action-adventure game with RPG elements set in a fantasy world. It's 
 notable features are controlling a small horde of goblins (up to four kinds, each set with special 
 abilities) , rebuilding your Dark Tower, customizing your gear, and choosing to do benevolent or 
 malevolent acts, which ultimately affects how much content you see and the ending.
  
  Stylistically, the game looks like Fable 2 might if released today. Rolling hills, some narrow 
 paths, townspeople wandering about; counter to Fable, Overlords areas usually loop back to one 
 central point and are much larger, letting you traverse the world easily. Other areas are more 
 open, and some complicated enough to get lost in (explorers rejoice) .
  
  THE BAD:
  The game starts becoming un-fun once you find yourself battling the control scheme more than the 
 actual game. The control scheme worked fine until the creators equated difficulty handling the 
 key/button combinations with game difficulty.
  
  For example, you can't create control groups with your minions, nor easily separate a certain number 
 of goblins from their color group. This would be fine unless there weren't sequences where controlling 
 disparate groups are required in the middle of a boss fight, with little margin for error. To move 
 a group set to guard a banner, you have to aim at the banner and target lock it (if something else 
 targetable is nearby, you might lock onto that instead) , holding the target button, you then can 
 sweep that group around like the rest of your horde. This is trickier than it sounds once you add 
 in the fact that you are currently being attacked by a boss.
  
  However, the majority of the game isn't filled with such instances.
  
  There are puzzles which 
 flip between testing your understanding of how to use your minions to solve the puzzle, and your 
 ability to control them well enough to do it (example: boiling hot geysers that erupt and having 
 to navigate your goblins through their timed sequences - it's obvious what to do, it took me far 
 too long to actually get it right, and that's annoying) .
  
  There isn't much reason to play the game through again unless you like playing from both good and 
 bad angles, the first of which is made difficult by your goblins defaulting to doing bad things 
 whenever they can.
  
  THE GOOD:
  Rampaging though town, collecting slave girls, making the populace tremble at your presence and 
 looting everything that your goblins can loot doesn't get old. (Unfortunately the slave girls are 
 a single mission and they just mill about your throne saying the same catch phrases.)
  
  While you can be good , the game offers more to the bad player. It's difficult to keep your goblins 
 from doing evil acts while moving about a city, or coming across a lonely shepherd and his sheep, 
 so you'll find yourself reloading to keep your good status. Evil is definitely better, by design 
 of the game.
  
  Mixing up what goblins you bring changes the difficulty of your quests - coming across a horde 
 of zombies (about 30-40 individuals) is difficult without melee specialist brown goblins up front 
 and fire throwing red goblins in back. Green goblins can stealth at a guard marker you set and 
 leap and pounce on any enemies that come near, surprising them. Blue goblins can resurrect fallen 
 goblins, but die too quickly even when making a corpse run.
  
  SUMMARY:
  If this sounds appealing, buy the game. If not, try the demo, but be aware that the un-fun sequences 
 are later in the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: unigoono
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 8, 2007 12:12 pm PT
Review:  This game, as few flaws as it has (and lets be honest name me a single game made after ps1/n64 
 that were flawless ) This is still a great game to play. It has a fun mix of rts and action. You 
 take place as a evil overlord that whose predecessor has been killed and so you are awaken from 
 your sleep to take his spot and rule over the tower. You run around with a army of minions that 
 look a lot like gremlins. You run around, killing, ruling, getting female slaves offered to you 
 by farmers. Fighting the good guys. What about this could you not like?
  
  Game play 8 - It is a great game, and it has great idea about how you run around controlling a 
 army how ever this gets a little flawed down the road. You run into problems that the controls 
 are not as good as they can be, you have hard time controlling 50 at once because you have to switch 
 between them.
  
  Graphics 9 - The graphics are great. Nothing more that I can say they are exactly what you would 
 expect from next gen graphics.
  
  Sounds 9 - They had a great use of sound in the right places. It made you feel as if you were really 
 there killing mass people and fighting trolls who fart alot.
  
  Value 9 - This game is great, its fun, its worth the money and if you are looking for a good silly 
 game, or some thing to past time get this.
  
  Over all I give it a 8.7 it could be better but it is still a good game to own. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dragon-3
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 8, 2007 11:08 am PT
Review:  Overlord as got a prefect blend of humor, action and fun with a touch of evil. The mouse begin 
 the main to control the overlord takes some time getting use to but as you play the game little 
 bit more its more to help you control the path of your minions. As with any game you got to learn 
 how to learn the rules of the game of what you can and can't do. I like the fact that if you want 
 to kill the town folks you can by selecting them and attacking with or with out your minions. But 
 at the same time if you swing your weapon or attack with minions you wouldn't accidentally kill 
 them. The AI is one of the better ones I've played 9 out 10 times the minions will do what I want. 
 The overlord himself is kind of hard to control. But I believe the game is design more for the 
 minions going the work for you. In parts of the game you can't do anything without them. But also 
 you got to beef up the overlord to survive. One of the biggest disappointments was with the forge. There 
 are three in the game. The first one is kind of useless. Its only good for upgrading your armor 
 (enchanting it with minions powers) and you are wearing that type of metal when you start the game. 
 I wish I had understand that before I spent half my hard earned stolen gold on. And the second 
 one is better but by the time you make your new armor and forge your minions into the armor you 
 find the last Forge so you feel like you time is wasted. I don't regret buying the game. Now I 
 know these little things the second will be more fun then first.. and maybe my corruption will 
 go above 50%.......... .MWAHAHHAHAAHHAHHH!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: depakjan
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 8, 2007 11:47 am PT
Review:  Cool game.... new concept.. u can enjoy watching the minions do it for u........ the best thing 
 is when the minions give things to u... SIRE!!!!!........... cool........ enjoyed the game like 
 anything..... quests are interesting.. fantasy setting were fantastic.... u could actually enjoy 
 the graphics....... customization of your tower is interesting.... HOT MISTRESS (es) !! :D......... 
 but only thing is your mistress never go to the bedroom :D....... the bed was really cozy anyway............ 
 voice acting is nice.......... even though the game was quite long.. i still wanted to play more 
 missions....... an expansion could suffice.... haven't tried the multiplayer... i wonder how it 
 would be....... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blade_Tr4iner
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 8, 2007 7:44 am PT
Review:  Overlord is extremely enjoyable - this is the first and most important stament I will make about 
 it.
  
  You are a typical evil lord, and the objective of the game is to become Overlord of the surrounding 
 area. Since the peasants don't fear you, you have to start from scratch.
  
  The graphics are pretty good - the models are a bit blocky in places and the textures on some of 
 the world's denizens (not your minions - they're beautifully done) is somewhat blurry, but in general 
 the game is pretty and atmospheric.
  
  The sound tends to the repetitive (especially your minion's voices) , but it's well done, so instead 
 of getting irritated by it you rather enjoy it or at least don't mind.
  
  The gameplay is Overlord's greatest asset. Your primary tool is a horde of imps (your minions) 
 who run around, smashing stuff, burning stuff, carrying stuff and generally doing your evil bidding 
 to the best of their abilities. They do tend somewhat to the stupid (I've occasionally had minions 
 run into water and drown themselves) but it's nothing that can't be overcme by some relatively 
 careful control.
  
  The game does have some quirks - the clipping is restrictive and buggy (minions occasionally get 
 stuck somewhere and can't free themselves) , the game is also rather more linear than we're led 
 to believe. And although you are evil, it's more light evil than anything else. Compared to Dungeon 
 Keeper, you're hardly evil at all. Last but not least, the game is rather easy, although I suppose 
 that's more to do with the relatively family friendly nature of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_NHB
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 8, 2007 6:11 am PT
Review:  Overlord is like an adventure/RPG but no RPG in it which is kinda sand because it would been really 
 awesome.
  
  Then game it self is really good in almost every way, the graphics is really good the environment 
 is good and the sound also good and funny humor in it.
  
  The gameplay is good you maybe think that you have completed a lvl or map but you can go back to 
 it and do more stuff when you get more minions or other minions that can do other stuff then your 
 first one.
  
  The game has a good humor to it, funny to play and use the little minions to destroy things that 
 you want to destroy but off course you can&acute; t destroy everything you see but much.
  
  The missions you get is kinda easy if you use the right minions but if not then little harder.
 
  
  A good new game with nothing like other game so buy it worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rat78
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 8, 2007 5:28 am PT
Review:  At last something refreshing. Im tired of doing same things over and over, specially in action 
 rpgs. Minions idea is extreme fun ! I love to wreck places and npcs again and again just to watch 
 'minions tide'. Game is a little short ,but maybe because its getting repetitive after a while. 
 AI of minions is pretty good but sometimes they do really stupid things and die. i found few bugs 
 too, and theres one when you are just unable to complete game because of it... But besides that 
 its tons of fun and laugh ! I recommend it to anyone who is tired of old-school rpgs! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hemregul
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 7, 2007 2:13 pm PT
Review:  Im not going to write a lot about this game. Basically Its really fun and addictive. The only draw 
 back i can see is that the mission styles tend to repeat themselves and that the game could have 
 been made a bit more devilish.
  
  The first time i started playing this game i had a lot of fun. I guess evil does has its humorous 
 moments. The in game detail given to the creatures is great - I simply love it . if a bit more 
 effort was put into it to making the quests more dynamic and non repetitive it would have been 
 a 10`er - though im not sure whether if would have been as fun as it is now. Overall good graphics, 
 sounds and game play - I mean i did spend over 20 hours of game play.
  
  So my final verdict would be `worth playing but classic RPG players may get bored after a while`. 
 So if your looking for something different and have not decided on what you want to spend your 
 money on Overlord might be worth looking at. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DendromutantX
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 7, 2007 7:40 am PT
Review:  Lets start with physical aspects of the game. The graphics are great, as are animations, shadows 
 and textures. Voice acting is as good as it can get in a game that doesn't take itself seriously. 
 Ambient sounds are also top-notch. This game is very fun to play. While a lot of the choices you 
 make in the game will be plain humorous, some of them will make you feel dirty and evil. Despite 
 the initial impression, the game does have an elaborate story that will make you say: of course, 
 this makes so much sense in the end. Only shortcoming of the game is the controls issue. They are 
 not always responsive. Overall, if you dont like strategic thinking and humor in your games, don't 
 pick up this game. If you want 40 hours of good entertainment, better rent or buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: senjutsu
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jul 8, 2007 11:43 am PT
Review:  This game is played like Oblivion, but with minions that do your jobs.
  
  The gameplay is good since the minions you control are mostly accurate at finding what you want 
 them to do. But it's nothing special for your main character, who play like an Oblivion charater, 
 with a lot less attacks and stuff. In general, you have to break everything to get gold or other 
 things. This can be boring after a while.
  
  The graphics are good, nothing spectacular, and they are good on low-end computer also. But there 
 is not anything flashy or big animations.
  
  The sound... errr, I don't really remember the sound, if it can help you understand how it sounds... 
 It's nothing out of the ordinary.
  
  The value is short. I played this game for 4 hours and after the second, I was bored. You can gain 
 only 4 types of minions in the game and they all look the same with different colors... (you ever 
 saw the movie: mama's boy? lol)
  
  Personally, I didn't enjoyed the game very much. At first it's pretty much fun, you destroy everything 
 and you make your minions do evil things, but after a while, you are just searching for new objects 
 and the story is not great at all (there is a story?) , so I don't recommend this game (maybe a 
 download or a demo) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shawnyboy12
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 7, 2007 3:33 pm PT
Review:  Have you ever wanted to command a minion army worthy of a powerful overlord? If so, would you be 
 ready to be that overlord? Well in Overlord for the PC, the challenge is yours for the taking. 
 Your journey begins as you are strangely awakened in a coffin by your fellow minions. The Good 
 News: You soon figure out that you are the new Overlord. The Bad News: Your tower has been looted 
 and ruined by the seven heros of the land. Your, shall we sayguide of the adventure, Gnarl, instructs 
 you to rebuild your tower and defeat the seven heros to reclaim your evil domain. Sounds really 
 hard, huh? It does seem like a daunting adventure and it is challenging at some points, but mostly 
 its an easy slide all the way through. But what makes the game easier is its clever shall I call 
 Minion Management System or MMS (hehe) . By the sudden roll of your scroll wheel you can switch control 
 over the four different kinds of minions. These include Blue, Red, Green, and.. Brown (got you 
 there, didnt I!) minions and they all have their own certain strengths and weaknesses. For instance, 
 the Greens are the cool assassin like dudes that just love to jump on the enemys back and stab 
 away. But they are pretty weak with taking damage so youve got to plan carefully - that going 
 for all your minions! And as you ve heard, your minions are pretty awesome! I never get sick of 
 the smiles on their faces after they retrieve some well earned stolen loot for me. Now to the part 
 of this review where I talk about the main issue that has been thats been going around about the 
 evilness of the game. I mean, of course, you cant get to extreme gore in a rated-T game (as well 
 as other things) , but Im glad its not. My personal opinion (in which you can disregard completely) 
 is that I would never want to play a game where it would get that graphic. Im fine with the way 
 the gore, blood, and nudity (none) is handled. But besides that, it is true. Even when pillaging 
 towns and cities, I didnt feel evil. I mean nonetheless, it was fun but I didnt feel like I was 
 all powerful. Although, beware, there are some pretty evil choices you can make throughout the 
 game as it plays out. On another note, a strange twist is brought in when you soon find out that 
 the seven heros have been corrupted and are now evil, too. So it sort of feels like this: Imagine 
 youre the new dude in town and you wanna takeover, in your way stands seven other dudes that have 
 taken that power so your off to defeat them to get it back. It kinda makes the peasants feel like 
 a side priority of the game. I just didnt get the magic feeling that I was the one who made them 
 tremble and cower. But I still have to admit the process of defeating the seven heros was very 
 pleasing and the way the story unfolded made you interested in what was actually going on. The 
 graphics were great and so were the sounds, except of course for that girl Jewels voice overs 
 (not so good) . I end this review by asking you to compare this game to a juicy, delicious steak, 
 not only because Im hungry but because I cant think of any other witty comment to make about 
 this game other than it is well-done all the way through. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: msilver67
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 6, 2007 8:05 pm PT
Review:  wow whats a nintendo game doing on the pc.. hmmm is this a nintendo ploy!! Well at least its funny 
 and takes time away from all the other crap that out there and it wont last until something else 
 stupid shows up, I guess if we keep buying these games they will keep making them. A 100 words 
 man this game doesnt last for that long I dont want to start lying, Geez still not enough words 
 okay when is fricken CAOS 2 coming out this is getting old oh my gosh thats still not a 100 words 
 yet, so anyone else bored with pc games lately do they think we take vacations and that Christmas 
 is the only time of the year to release games, we do get paychecks every 2 weeks and some of us 
 would gladly buy a new game twice a month or more 
::::::

::::::
UserName: batusai513
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 5, 2007 7:27 pm PT
Review:  Great game, it's a good and refreshing game, its interesting, some times impressive and ambitious, 
 This game is just plain fun and its very very addictive the first night I had it I played it till 
 3am... lol., it's a good mix among some classic role playing games like of fable, the graphics of 
 oblivion and the dark humor of max payne, and yeah!! it could be a little more evil, but it's OK, 
 the bad it's the camera it's some difficult and add more movements to the overlord!, this is definitly 
 one of the Best pc game I have bought in the last year easily. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tonttu86
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 5, 2007 5:49 am PT
Review:  Overlord is a mixture of Action-RPG and RTS, with RTS being the main focus. One of the interesting 
 parts of the game is that you play as an evil character. Does the game fulfil this goal? Find out 
 about that later on.
  
  The game starts with you just being resurrected by few minions of yours; from there tutorial starts 
 with the guidance of your advisor. If you feel like it you can always skip it.
  
  The first thing you have to do at the beginning is to go find the Tower Heart that fuels the towers 
 teleportation system - a little luxury every evil Overlord should have. You go searching for it 
 from the last known location of the heart, Mellow Hills - where many cute little sheep roam and 
 irritating halflings lay havoc and mischief to the local population. May the adventure begin.
 
  
  As earlier said this game is a mixture of Action-RPG and RTS. The RPG side being you, the Overlord, 
 who commands the minions, summons few spells, purchases better equipment and bashes the skulls 
 of his enemies with his personal choice of weapon. You can also use your hardly earned money to 
 upgrade your evil tower.
  
  The RTS side is mainly your minions, and that is the main focus of this game, without your minions 
 youre nothing. Minions are used from creature bashing to pillaging villages to solving light (very 
 light I might add) puzzles. Your minions can pick up stuff from fallen enemies and broken containers 
 and equip them as armour or weapons to increase their pillaging efficiency. Its always nice to 
 see a minion wearing a dead rat or slimy snail eye as a hat. There are four different types of 
 minions - brown, red, green, blue - each having their own unique purpose in the game. Controls 
 are pretty slick and easy to learn and get used to. Although there are few quirks sometimes, like 
 minion command button jamming and then you rapidly send your minions forward even if you dont 
 want to, but thankfully that doesnt happen too often. Camera nicely follows you around and is 
 usually there where you need it to be when the time arises.
  
  The world around you is nicely done and isnt too repetitive if we consider the environments with 
 its swaying and burn-able wheat fields, glimmering lakes, creepy-ish forests, luminous caverns 
 and rocky mountain passes. Puzzles are a different story altogether. They vary from sending your 
 minions to a location where you cant personally reach to *drum roll* pushing/carrying an object 
 with the help of your minions.
  
  Graphics-wise the game is pretty, although the HDR-effect is a bit exaggerating and its not the 
 prettiest game existing, never the less the game is nice to look at. You might stumble into performance 
 problems if you have somewhat old computer and you try to run it in the high settings.
  
  Sounds are very nicely done in this game, especially voice acting is top notch overall, didnt 
 encounter any annoying voices myself. The humour is nicely added here and there to add that something 
 to the games overall feel that just keeps you smiling.
  
  The evildoing in this game is pretty limited and you dont really feel like youre the abomination 
 from the fiery pits of hell. Always helping people, few times excluded, and never really doing 
 anything overly evil stuff.
  
  The game isnt very challenging either, as earlier said, the puzzles are very light and dont need 
 any logical thinking. Almost every battle can be solved with just spamming your minions at your 
 enemies, including almost all bosses, although it could be seen as such that the developers wanted 
 to keep the feeling that youre the Overlord and no one can stand a chance against you. Multiplayer 
 is in the game too with co-op and versus game modes. Personally havent played multiplayer much, 
 but for a first impression it seemed very bad, lag being the greatest concern. The minions responded 
 with delay ranging from second to few seconds and the main character control didnt seem so smooth 
 either. Co-op was just minion spam with your friend against AI controlled creatures. I didnt really 
 try versus mode, as the co-op already left so bad taste in the mouth. Multiplayer might be more 
 enjoyable in LAN.
  
  All in all, Overlord is very nice (although linear) and refreshing addition to the game collection. 
 It could have used more evilness, because frankly I felt like evil trying to become nice. Difficulty 
 setting would have been nice addition, as it is now the current difficulty just isnt enough - 
 this coming from a guy who isnt very good at any game. Hopefully developers will improve the multiplayer 
 in a patch.
  
  If you want a light-hearted, humorous and overall fun game to play, heres one for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wackys
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 5, 2007 3:48 am PT
Review:  Goods :Incredible graphics, incredible minion control, very very very fun, amazing story, amazing voice 
 acting, great performance, killing villagers is always fun, massacring minions is fun too, great boss 
 fights, great music, fantastic cut-scenes ,great overall control, fun spells, all 3 tiers of armor 
 look fantastic, great looking environments and very well done.
  
  Bads :sometimes it's hard to pull minions out of their holes, the music stops sometimes but it starts 
 back up fast.
  
  I was waiting for this game from December 2006 and I was NOT disappointed. The control is great 
 even with keyboard and mouse so you don't have to have a xbox-360 controller or something similar.
 
  
  The graphics are amazing. The detail in each minion is awesome. The detail in the overlord's armors 
 is very very well done. Even the buildings are great. The environments are also very well done
  
  The gameplay is loads of fun. I mean those minions will put pumpkins on their little heads (yes 
 pumpkins) and many many other stuff. Even when it loads it's fun cause it has some little movies 
 at the beginning. Sometimes the minions will say funny things like ohh fire fire hahahha or like 
 sheepies sheepies .The keyboard &amp; mouse controls work great the little bad thing though is 
 that you will have to use the F1 - F12 keys to change spells but other that that it works fine. Also 
 the campaign is lengthy to like 15 to 20 hours of play (I finished it in 16 hours) .
  
  The sound is very well done and the music is pretty great but the only drawback is that sudden 
 stop in music but don't worry it starts back up again in a bit.
  
  Overall the game is a 100% must-buy so if you have 40 or 50 $ to buy it certainly do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Anaxandron
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jul 5, 2007 5:54 am PT
Review:  The first thing you will notice when playing Overlord is that it looks fantastic. The world looks 
 very much alive and it is possible to see that much work was invested on all the visual aspects 
 of the game. Even more importantly, though, is the fact that it runs smoothly, which is probably 
 due to a sensible use of polygons for the models and also because of its simple engine.
  
  It will not be long too before you start giggling at all the hilarity that comes with those beautiful 
 graphics. Your minions will provide you with a limitless amount of jokes. Also, they look so enthusiastic 
 when you order them to perform tasks that it is even contagious.
  
  The voice acting is not bad at all either and the same can be said about the game's music and sound 
 effects.
  
  On the bad side, though, the game is rather simplistic. There is not much novelty after the first 
 hour, but the game succeeds in the end at keeping you playing through the use of the afore mentioned 
 qualities. All in all, it is definitely worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rj5958
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 4, 2007 3:46 am PT
Review:  Pros: My Saitek joystick controller was automatically configured and I didn't have any control 
 issues. Controls are customizable. Mouse and Keyboard control is a little difficult in getting 
 used to.
  
  This console port is not buggy (a problem that plagues many console to PC ports) .
  
  Customizable 
 castle (buying decorations, though there aren't that many to choose from other than flag banners) . 
 Customizable equipment for the overlord (3 classes of metals to forge from and players can fiddle 
 with the stats) . Customizable minions (minions pick up armor left on the battlefield, they always 
 choose the strongest one and dump the lesser equipment) .
  
  Battle controls are fairly intuitive but the guard order sometimes doesn't reach all minions and 
 thus sometimes one or two may follow the player character.
  
  Music in this game is fairly tasteful, mostly classical symphony compositions.
  
  Players can 
 choose to be evil or really evil (some missions you don't get if you're good and vice versa) .
 
  
  The jester minion in the lord's castle says different things depending on how certain tasks handled.
 
  
  Cons:
  
  I've played this game for a couple days now and when I forge my equipment there is this nagging 
 repetitive minion voice that keeps spouting the same tips as when I first started. But this is 
 just a very small problem.
  
  Camera angles sometimes hinder players when they need it the most. For instance, players can use 
 their minions move timed explosives, the camera can hinder placement of explosive device in stages 
 around mid-game (if worst comes to worst, players might blow up part of their minion squad and 
 themselves) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: elagel
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 3, 2007 5:38 am PT
Review:  This game proposal is kind of close to Dungeon Keeper: Grow your evilness, forget about doing the 
 good. That is, from time to time, very refreshing to say the least, unless you play GTA all day 
 long.
  
  The real interest of this game is the fact that you control a horde of mininons, and have therefore 
 a great feeling of power. You just move your arm in a direction, and the little evil creatures 
 run there and kill, pillage or... just go there when there is nothing.
  
  The controls themselves (tested on PC) are rather simple, and that was necessary because of the 
 supposedly complexity of the actions that you are led to make. As the game progresses, though, 
 you will have the possibility to control more and more minions of different kinds, and each kind 
 can be used for specific purposes: red mininons, for instance are ranged and can cross fire zone 
 unaccessible to you or the other minions.
  
  The gameplay per se is rather simplistic in the beginning, but satisfying as I have no rememberance 
 of playing a pillage simulation, and this makes the trick. You can even pillage some non-enemy 
 houses, and it is a pleasure to watch the creatures laugh, run, break everything, bring you gold 
 back and equip found items (they can for instance equip pumpkins as helmets, which grants them 
 a great look) .
  
  Further on, it becomes more complex to get the challenges resolved. It is a mix between puzzles, 
 real time strategy-like basic control, and some direct action when you decide to take part in the 
 fight. All in all, a very welcome mix of different inspiration.
  
  Humor is omnipresent, and even if sometimes it is really gross, there are some guaranteed laughters 
 along the way. Mine was when you order minions to destroy a table with beers on it. They destroy 
 everything, but drink all of the beer... and at a time you don't expect, you see them pee with 
 a loud sigh of relief... Also, it is funny to saccage what exaclty looks like the LotR Hobbit's 
 towns and houses.
  
  Graphics are not exceptionnal, but definitely up there. A bit too glowy in my opinion, but I didn't 
 want to change settings anyway. The monsters could certainly be more detailed, have better textures, 
 but all in all everything fits together.
  
  Sound is rather good too, the musicals do fit to the theme and are very pleasant to hear. Some 
 of the musical pieces are actually quite good. The voice acting is also really good, with very 
 believable voices, even though the cutscenes and their subtitles are more often than not desynchronized.
 
  
  In the end, this game provided me a very refreshing experience, I enjoyed having the minions run 
 here and there at my orders. The major issues are with the controls that are sometimes unresponsive 
 -it is sometimes rather difficult to have your horde do what you want them to do or go where you 
 want them to go, some annoying bugs (like the king of Halflings magically resurrecting after you 
 killed him) , and sometimes a very tedious savegame, which forces you to walk here and there a bit 
 more than necessary 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soldier3106
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 3, 2007 2:21 am PT
Review:  Overlord is a game I can't compare with many others. I've simply not seen anything like it, for 
 good or bad. Because Overlord's originality is it's strongest and weakest point.
  
  In Overlord you are the Darkness Incarnate, Master of Doom, Herald of Destruction, ie, you are 
 the big evil guy with thick armor and a large axe. Your goal is simple. Establish a Dark Domain 
 over the fluffly lands of whatever the name of the world your playing in is. (It is never mentioned) . 
 To do this you are given power of Minions. Small creatures with cute squeeky little voices. They 
 follow you around and you can control.
  
  Now these controls are highly debated. GS has found that the controls are annoying. I disagree. 
 Although the controls are not entirely perfect, they are hardly annoying. The only issue is sweeping. 
 Sweeping is when you hold both mouse buttons and then you can sweep (move) your minions over complicated 
 paths by moving the mouse. This doesn't work as it should I believe.
  
  The Minions though, are a really important part of the game. Not only for gameplay, but for the 
 flair of the game too. They will make you laugh several times when you first start. For example 
 when they find treasure they bring it back to you and say For you! For da mastah! Treasure! which 
 is highly amusing the very first time. And while the fun with goes away over time, it never becomes 
 annoying or bothersome.
  
  There are four types of minions. Browns, Reds, Greens and Blues. Browns are your fighters, you 
 start out with them. They are the strongest of all minions in combat. Reds are ranged attackers. 
 They throw fireballs. But what is really useful is that they can put out fires for you or cross 
 lava simply by walking over it. Greens are sneaky. They can go invisible and do backstabbing attacks. 
 They are also immune to all poisons. Blues are healers. They can ressurect fallen minions. They 
 are also the only ones who can go into water.
  
  Your Overlord himself though, isn't very strong. And here comes a bad point of the game. If the 
 minions would turn on the Overlord, he would die in a second. The Overlord himself is really weak 
 and completely useless in combat. This is bad, because you want to fight yourself also. What really 
 amazed me though is the enviroment. Every place is chuck full of props and little details. It's 
 amazing. The sound is also great. Birds in the fields, creaky sounds in buildings. It's all there. 
 The music though is highly repetive as there is only one music per place where you.
  
  All in all I believe Overlord is a bit underestimated by this game. I say download the Demo and 
 see for your self. I personally believe this game is well worth a purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MadeInMaple
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 3, 2007 12:53 am PT
Review:  When I first picked up Overlord I thought I was going to see a very non linear game where all my 
 choices would alter the story's outcome. Unfortunately, I was wrong. The game was very fun to play 
 and the RPG-RTS combo was also great. Not only that but the story was also entertaining. The controls 
 for the game seem to be very under rated; I had no trouble controlling my minions or the camera. 
 After finishing the game and reflecting back I realized, like stated above, the game was too linear 
 and it got boring going back and doing everything the same way as you did last time. On top of 
 that the game wasn't very challenging except for certain irritating parts where certain minions 
 were required. (BLUES!!!!!!!) Unless you have Xbox live or are interested in playing online I'd 
 suggest renting this game. The game can easily be completed within a week but is still a great 
 game none the less. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mars188
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 2, 2007 5:50 pm PT
Review:  this game is a breath of fresh air from the pack of war war 2 games, it is very fun taking over 
 small forts making chaos, making up your army of evil. over lord looks great talking is great in 
 the game and buliding up your kingdom, only thing to me that i could pick some is the cam in the 
 game somtimes it seem to kind of hung up in spots , then when the action got going real good seems 
 like your controll over your army got out of hand some, but this is just small picks overlord is 
 a fun game and i am going to buy it, just so diffrent from the rest its nice to play a game like 
 this, so go buy it and enjoy thanks 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nebolith
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 2, 2007 10:25 am PT
Review:  One thing that sets this game apart are the graphics, and stability compared to other games that 
 come out today.. The other, is that it WORKS WELL ON VISTA. Play is non-linear which is kind of 
 nice but not so difficult that you don't know where to go. The quest log is very informative on 
 where to go next. Combat from the overlord perspective is very simple but with 4 sets of different 
 minions it can be difficult to keep them organized.
  
  If you played DK or DK2 you will recognize that funny twisted humor that is integrated throughout 
 the game. Your minions can be smacked around and the most fun is hitting your jester (in the castle) 
 or smacking your female (mini-skirt clad) servants who will smack you back. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vipsd1
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 2, 2007 7:52 am PT
Review:  I was getting tired of the same game styles over and over, I mean, its a new console, I need something 
 new! And overlord is something new.
  
  Mix some dungeon-crawling with RTS and you will get an idea. At the start it keep you playing just 
 becouse its really cool, everything is so alive that you really 'feel' the game. Everything acts 
 like it should act and speaks as it should speak.
  
  When you are starting to loose some interess about just walking around and causing chaos without 
 thinking you start getting into more serious stuff, by the time you get the 'reds' the game starts 
 showing its true nature. And as you get to the 2nd scenario you will prolly get wiped out and rethink 
 your aproach to the game.
  
  But the game gives you enough time to get used to the controls before giving you more trouble, 
 even that sometimes you will find yourself lost in buttons, but that is not really a game problema, 
 game commands are really well done, its just that the gamer is not used to work that way and need 
 practice.
  
  After all, the game is beautifull, forget the dull i' ve seen that already feeling from the starting 
 scen, later the scenarios are impressive. Not just the scenario background, but all details gives 
 you a really immersive experience.
  
  As a final note, walking back to your tower is always another fun, you are never sure about whats 
 happening and theres always something new to see or do, even some customization on your domains 
 and some minion spanking just to keep'm in line ( that jester is just too cool to kick) .
  
  Problems about the game, your character animation could be betther. You move like a G. I. Joe toy 
 and you have always the same look, the magics you get make all that difference and sometimes you 
 would prefer to be a cool minion than the overlord. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grendl74
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 2, 2007 5:10 am PT
Review:  Very, very few complaints about this game. Some camera control would have been better than the 
 pulled back mode, but it's functional. My -primary- beef with the game is the intentionally slow 
 learning curve concerning the underlings. I understand that the developers wanted to introduce 
 the tactics revolving around the various types, but it just seems to me that they did so to increase 
 the length of the game. I didn't get my fourth minion type until many hours into the game, and 
 that frustrated me a little, but I managed to struggle through.
  
  Overall, I love the game and would, and do, highly recommend people pick this title up! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DABhand_UK
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 1, 2007 9:24 pm PT
Review:  Its here at last, finally, I was eager for this one and thankfully the game did not disappoint 
 at all.
  
  The game starts as your awaken and have acid rubbed into your eyes. Yes Acid, ahhh those little 
 minions sure love you as Overlord. After a few minutes of learning how to play which is presented 
 extremely well, your first real quests begins.
  
  Saving villagers huh, from nasty dwarfies, who no like sheepies (oh im in character again, sorry 
 about that but you will understand when you play the game/demo) , anyway this quest is a chance 
 for you to hone your skills as the Overlord and to control your minions correctly, but it shouldn't 
 be much of a problem. That is to later on when it becomes apparent that you cant go everywhere 
 yet.
  
  The graphics are very well designed and colorful and fun, not amazing, but fun and bright none 
 the less. And the sound is great, the one liners and comments from your minions make this game 
 a joy to play.
  
  *Master tell them about the sheepies!*
  
  Oh yes Sheepi... uhum sheep, are one source of summoning energy you will need to summon more minions, 
 sheep carry brown minion energy, while other nasties will have green, red or blue. But dont expect 
 to have a huge army of Browns at the start. Oh no no no. You are limited until you find Objects, 
 we like objects!, like totems that give more minion control, or more mana and health, and even 
 new spells to be wielded. And missing parts of your Evil Tower.
  
  One part of the game is very much like Fable, is the Good and Evil side of things. Well technically 
 not Good, but Evil Good and Evil Evil, which your armor changes shape and colour depending on how 
 Good or Evil you are.
  
  At times it can be a bit of a chore to figure out what you have to do next or where to go, but 
 not too much of a chore, you dont want the game to be so blatantly obvious now do you?
  
  The story is easy to follow with some good twists and turns. But just when I was enjoying myself 
 the game was over, which is a shame as it changes the scoring a bit but not by much. Dont get me 
 wrong it could have been longer, but even so its a challenge.
  
  Overall Overlord is a great game, full of laughs, fun, good scenery and graphics, and of course 
 sheepies (the minions were biting my ankles to say that) . Go out and buy it today you will not 
 be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Decon5
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 1, 2007 5:58 pm PT
Review:  For those who don't want to read very much about it- this game is basically an evil twist on Pikmin. 
 You are the Overlord or Master and you run around controlling minions making them pillage, plunder, 
 kill and ransack pretty much everything in your way. I liked it, it was fun and is pretty entertaining. 
 You run through maze like rooms doing similar things, like finding objects to fit into another 
 so you can get into the next room.
  
  Gameplay 8/10:
  Personally, I think it's pretty fun. Running around a horde of little goblins is pretty enjoyable 
 to say the least. You can kill nearly everyone and everything, and your minions pick up armor and 
 weapons they find on the ground and begin using them. It's awesome to have a bunch of minions with 
 pumpkins on their heads raiding a camp, or helmets, chef hats, etc. I'm sure their some sort of 
 easter eggs here. This game is that of it's own, very unique.
  
  Controls 8/10:
  Point and click. Point, shift, and click. Click both mouse buttons, move around. Controls are simple, 
 almost too simple at times. Managing multiple groups of browns, reds, blues, etc. begins to get 
 a bit difficult, but not impossible. I found it a lot easier on the PC then I did on Xbox 360, 
 but I only played the 360 demo.
  
  Graphics 8/10:
  It's really cool looking, so say the least. I walked into the game and was somewhat stunned by 
 how good it actually looked. CGs are cool, the creators seemed to have a thing with fat bosses, 
 or units, kind of weird.
  
  Sound 9/10:
  Minus the minions saying the same thing over and over, and over, they are pretty quiet when it 
 comes to talking. They'll squeal or yell, but nothing too bad. The voice acting seems cool as well.
 
  
  Value 7/10:
  If you are skeptical about buying it for the PC, get the demo or rent it for the 360. I have a 
 feeling the game itself is an acquired taste. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sLeMYouToDeath
Rating: 6.9
Date: Jul 1, 2007 11:51 am PT
Review:  This game actually would've been really fun if not for the control system. Almost every other time 
 the sweep/send minion/callback minion function hangs up and I can't tell you how annoying that 
 was after a while. Especially when you were close to water with browns/reds/greens. They basically 
 ran right down in the water and before I could solve the hang up issue they had drowned. The guard 
 marker function is also pretty annoying. Sometimes the minions guarding just stands there doing 
 nothing even if there's an enemy hitting them. That kind of makes the greens obsolete, despite 
 the fact that they can absorb poison. Anyway, this game still has it's qualities. For example, 
 it's awesome that you get to be evil for once (I so miss the good ol' Dungeon Keeper game) . Though 
 the best part in the game is the minions. I love the way they just swarm the enemy climbing and 
 just overruns him. This game has it's share of faults, though it's just fun. The idea is great 
 and I wish they had spent some more time making the game.
  Now go mix Baldur's Gate, Black &amp; White, Dungeon Keeper and Overlord for the follow-up, please. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dietie-wietie
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 1, 2007 7:55 am PT
Review:  Overlord is a nice game. When I played the demo, I just wanted to have that game! It's very addictive! 
 Once you start playing you want more! More evil, more destruction! Well, at least what you can 
 call 'evil'. It's 'evil' at Teen-level. But it's a nice game to play, just evil enough for me is 
 you ask ^^
  
  Graphics are impressive, sound could sometimes be better, gameplay is nice (although some controls 
 are weird) . If you want to play the game on full max, including AF 8x, AA 4x; you're gonna need 
 a good pc cause on my Intel Dual Core 3.8Ghz, 2Gb ram, geforce 7950GTX, I got fps of 40-50, and 
 I was really amazed by this!
  
  If you want a game that really amuses you this summer, and you really don't wanna go outside, this 
 is a real advice! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dark_prince2007
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jul 1, 2007 5:49 am PT
Review:  aking control of a mysterious figure that has inherited the legacy of the long-dead evil Overlord, 
 the player emerges near death from the ruins of the old Overlord's Dark Tower. Only the player's 
 actions will determine if they will rise to become the new all-powerful Overlord; it's all up to 
 how bad they want to be in order to succeed ... evil or really evil! With a dark sense of humor, 
 the game immerses players in twisted parodies of classic fantasy stories and characters. In a unique 
 twist, players will have control over an army of an army of Minions that will use their unique 
 skills to fetch, fight and die for their new Overlord. Throughout the game players will actively 
 control a horde of these gremlin-like creatures that will follow every bidding no matter how whimsical 
 or life threatening it may be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alex33x
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 30, 2007 7:06 pm PT
Review:  This game is pretty good compared to other releasees from Codemasters, most of their games are 
 really bad, I thought it would be best to buy it for PC because of better controls, it just felt 
 weird when I played the Demo on the 360.
  
  Fable fans woudl love this game, it seems like a fable/diablo crossover in my opinion, even the 
 graphics look fableish.
  
  Controling minions, and wreaking havoc is just awesome, though it limits you somehow, I wished 
 you could do a lot more evil deeds.
  
  This game should hold off Fable fans waiting for the lost chapters 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: quicksilver1826
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 30, 2007 1:58 am PT
Review:  The only good halfling is an on fire, screaming halfling ... rofl. Great game, reminds me of a perfect 
 combination of what fable should have been graphically and what black &amp; white had with superb 
 voice acting and innovation and with a superb dash of terry pratchet fantasy storytelling. By the 
 way if you haven't ever read one of his books, theyre great and I would recommend them to anyone. 
 This game is just plain fun and its very very addictive the first night I had it I played it till 
 3am... lol. The camera handles just right and the graphics are amazing even on my old x850 gfx dino. 
 Best pc game I have bought in the last year easily. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nevans963
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jun 29, 2007 7:10 pm PT
Review:  Ok the game looks great and is worth buying i guess. it's a great disappointment as your supposed 
 to play an Evil Overlord however it doesn't feel like you do. the graphics are excellent and boost 
 the game play greatly
  
  its an easy game to play and also very fun. you go on a interesting and funny adventure and you're 
 collecting pieces of your tower as you progress through the game, you then also return to you tower 
 when ever you like and you can see how the piece you found made your tower better. woop woop ?
 
  
  it gets a little boring after a few hours of playing theres a sudden enjoyment as you start the 
 game and it's easy to get right into being able to play the game. it doesn't feel very rewarding 
 whether you've killed a couple of half-lings to retrieve an piece of your tower, or if you've killed 
 20 trolls.
  
  it was a big disappointment indeed 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scvido
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 28, 2007 10:42 pm PT
Review:  Well, i decided to purchase the game on recommendation from a person off the net living in a far 
 away country and i wasn't disappointed at all!
  
  let me start by saying this game is extremely funny, the sense of humor is worthy of the price 
 alone, but lets go for a indepthish review. ;)
  
  *Graphics* - This game will please any OBLIVION fan, the engine is almost identical from the grass 
 to the waters, trees and so on, this game will strain you 3dcard to the max if you want the truth, 
 im playing it currently 1280x1024 maxxed out (no AA/AF and Shadows Off) and getting an average 
 of 40 fps on a Core2Duo - 8800gtx - 2gb ram setup, the good news this game takes full advantage 
 of Dualcore cpu by using 99-100% of both cores unlike any other game, probably the very first game 
 to take advantage of dualcore completely and this will smooth your game very well and increase 
 your performance, so that Dualcore cpu you thought is useless in games actually helps here.
  
  i'm using WinXP SP2 but works well in Vista too with only 5 fps loss or so.
  
  *Sound* 
 - I love the audio and music, the voices are very well done and the dialogs are the ROFL kind, 
 the minions that follow you are very funny too,
  the game support anything up to 7.1 speakers and 3Daudio adds to the atmophere very well.
  
 
  *Gameplay* - The gameplay can be described as such = Black&amp; White vs Dungeon Keeper vs Oblivion 
 vs Hack n' Slash gameplay, the game is easy to play but hard to master, you can pick up the game 
 anytime and play straight away but the missions will require you to use what you learned in the 
 tutorial proper if you want to finish a task right, you will love it.
  in one part you have to destroy pumpkins by using your Minions but after that one of your minions 
 following got a Pumpkin up his head looking like some Halloween charade LOL! ace. hahaha.
  
  you can use weapons, magic, fireballs, and much more to annihilate the enemy, throwing a fireball 
 in the wheat with enemy standing there = burning them alive, also killing sheeps and goats will 
 increase your evil and you can use more minions, you can also sacrifice minions to recharge your 
 health :D
  
  honestly this game is extremely fun to play.
  
  *Control* - The Control is pretty simple, left mouse button pressed sends your minion to do things 
 like kill enemies, Right one will call them back, Left and Right you can guide them wherever you 
 want, E will use magic spells.
  you'll learn it in no time.
  
  Conclusion?
  
  I love this game, one of the best this year, do not play it hour after hour, this game is awesome 
 if you play 1 hour or so at a time then come back for more, it is kinda addictive too.
  
  sure the game got a few shortcomings and maybe can get slightly repetitive in some areas but it's 
 nothing major since all games can get repetitive occasionally, but if you follow my advice and 
 play it 1-2 hours at a time you're in for an excellent time.
  
  YOU MUST BUY THIS ONE!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fox3586
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 28, 2007 6:51 pm PT
Review:  Overlord looks like a Fable ripoff from the moment you start playing it. It might actually be stolen 
 code from Lionhead, it is that similar of a game.
  You control a hero (forget the evil thing, its used mostly for humor. You are not that bad of a 
 guy though) and make decisions during your quests that minorly effect your world. It is a deep, 
 beautiful game with fun British accents and humor. The NPC's are all straight from Lord of the 
 Rings. Halflings in underground homes, Dwarves in mines, and Elves in the woods (plus a bunch of 
 characters that, again, look like they were stolen from Fable) . So far the game looks like it is 
 simply borrowing from everyone else. Truth is, they did something very different... they made a 
 GOOD game out of all these components. The major difference comes in the minions. I haven't tried 
 it yet, but I imagine you could play much of the game without them. You'd die a lot, but it is 
 probably possible besides the puzzles. Honestly, after you meet the deliteful pieces of terror, 
 you will never want to play without them.
  
  Minion break and kill anything you want them to. They grab weapons, armor, gold, objects, and other 
 items. They do all the heavy lifting and really make you feel like a true Overlord. Because of 
 Minions, this game is both easier and harder. Without them, it would be just another hero-based 
 adventure game that we've seen a million times before. Now everything feel brand new and fun again. 
 The minion also provide some interesting challenges that require good strategy. Without saying 
 too much, you have four types of minions that you acquire slowly. They each have their strengths 
 and weaknesses and you will have to use them in many different ways to you advantage. I haven't 
 completed the game but I hear the maximum horde size you can have at your command is 50. That is 
 awesome because 20 is enough to swarm almost anything that crosses your path. Gameplay: 10 Fun, 
 different type of gameplay. You control the main character and up to 50 more. The camera can get 
 a little painful occasionally and twice I have had glitches that basically make you reload a save 
 30 minutes prior, but I still give it a 10.... the minions are just THAT FUN!
  
  Graphics: 9
  Beautiful, lush, and a wide variety of locations. It looks like Fable which is great, 
 but also very last gen. Stylized but not top-notch.
  
  Sound: 7
  Probably the weakest point in the game only because of its inconsistencies. Some times it great: 
 The minions, main characters a general fighting noises. Other times it quiet and certain effects 
 seem absent all together. Value: 10
  Longer and better than Fable in one days play (granted it was a long day of play) . I waited 4 years 
 for Fable and it was upsetting at best. I waited two months for Overlord and it surpassed all my 
 expectations.
  
  Tilt: 10
  For a simple change of pace you must play this game. In a word, Minions!
  
  Please recommend, 
 comment, or message me for more information or if you would like me to add more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deukalion-
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jun 28, 2007 6:42 pm PT
Review:  I started out by playing the demo of Overlord a week ago or so and I was very pleased with the 
 game. A thought occured in my head, that happen to occur with many demos I try. I wondered if they'd 
 just put the good stuff in the demo to make us react a little ambitiously than we would over the 
 complete game. The first thing I noticed when I played the full game was I very close to the truth. 
 It's very much the same type of game althrough. But don't take me wrong, it's a good game!
  
  One of the factors that raised my gameplay score was the laughs Overlord gave me, but after 
 a while they get fewer.
  
  The story goes, you're an Overlord who gathers minions who do your work for you and if you're evil 
 along the way - it's even better. What I miss was the opportunity to be REALLY EVIL. The fact that 
 the Overlord can just hit the minions a little isn't quite enough to make it as evil as I hoped 
 for. Burning halflings is quite fun, wrecking villages is quite fun. But what the game lacks is 
 variation. You can break stuff, take stuff, kidnap women to work for you, kill anyone you like. 
 But they'll be respawned as if your actions never occured.
  
  All you do is command your minions to do your work for you and that's about it. And the line between 
 Evil and Really evil is Give the peasants their food supply , or Keep the food supply to your minions. 
 , when the last choice gives you 50 more minions to spawn.
  
  The beautiful grapichs in Overlord is beautiful to watch, but that's about it. It doesn't do much 
 than just sit there in the background for you to watch. The sound is very good; sometimes you hear 
 a funny tune while your minions is doing funny things which prolongs your laughters for a few seconds.
 
  
  One thing I can say for sure is that there can't be much replayable value of this game, since it 
 does play out pretty much the same a long way into the game. It won't be a classic one, but it 
 sure can be a funny one for as long as it last - if you don't get to sick by seeing minions break 
 the necks of a few sheeps along the way. Or if you simply ain't a animal activist. I might get 
 a little sidetracked here but, a game is a game, and I wouldn't mind Overlord to be a little bloodier 
 and a little more brutal than it is. Cause it ain't so much. If we're thinking to much about those 
 weak-minded kids who takes games to seriously then we might as well stop making games in the first 
 place. So, I hope for another brutal game that really delivers something brutal. The last game 
 of this type would be Dungeon Keeper, but then again, it wasn't that brutal either. So, I would 
 like to redefine the line Evil and Really evil to something more suitable, like Fairly nice and 
 You want sugar with that? or anything alike it. Cause it's suppose to be REALLY EVIL! Bring me 
 it! It's a shame for it to wear that slogan on front of the gamebox!
  
  And, finally. If you want some good laughs and don't mind thinking to much about the details - 
 this is the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xInfinity
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jun 28, 2007 3:08 pm PT
Review:  This is one game that I have been waiting for a long time to get. When I first heard about it, 
 I started thinking back to the days of Dungeon Keeper, as I'm sure many others thought as well. 
 I couldn't help but get more excited as the days grew closer to release.
  
  I was pleasantly surprised with this game, however I was not blown away. In the beginning, its 
 incredibly addicting. Getting your little minions, harvesting lifeforce, killing sheep, and pounding 
 on those little halflings. I had heard that there were side quests in the game, but they almost 
 feel as if they are 'mandatory' side quests. If you don't complete them, you miss out on various 
 upgrades for your tower.
  
  So far I've played it through once already, and I guess I got what was the 'good-evil' ending. 
 (Since I ended with 0% corruption... I know, I'm a goody-two-shoes at heart.) The story wasn't 
 too bad. I definitely didn't see what was coming near the end though. It was a nice change of pace. 
 However, the ending seemed to have approached rather abruptly. It takes quite a while and many 
 side-quests to take down the first 4 heroes. At least 20 or so gameplay hours worth. Then in the 
 last 5 hours, you get the last 3 heroes almost all at once, which saddened me a bit. I thought 
 I still had quite a ways to go.
  
  I'd classify this game as a limited RPG with definite puzzle elements. While most puzzles you have 
 to solve are quite obvious, there are a few in the game that had me stumped for several minutes. 
 At least all important items that you need to get have arrows over top of them, which means you 
 need to interact. If they don't have an arrow, it should be obviously placed so you know you need 
 to do something with it.
  
  I wouldn't really classify it too much as a strategy game at all. The only real strategy needed 
 is during large 'boss' fights, of which there are a handful in the game other than just the heroes 
 you have to slay. Thats the only time I really had to think about how to kill something. Otherwise, 
 the rest of the fodder in the game was just 'send in the minion horde and watch them have fun'. 
 Which, most of the time, it was fun. Especially the greens hopping on enemies backs.
  
  On the good side, the graphics were great, the story was good (I have to play it again now to see 
 the evil-evil ending) , and the minions are hilarious. I'll never forget on the desert level, where 
 there are black sheep. OOhhhhh! NEW sheepies! As for the controls, I'm one gamer that can easily 
 adjust to new controls, and things like the 'sweep' function was no problem for me.
  
  For the cons: Unless I'm missing it, I have no idea how to get tribute from the subjects I've saved. 
 If you even can. Its hinted at, but I have no idea if you can.
  
  I get no sense of fear from any of the people. At all. Again, I haven't played the evil-evil yet, 
 but I don't know if its any different. Most of the time, they were thanking me, asking about my 
 minions, or just ignoring me and talking about something to do with a quest I was on. I felt too 
 much like a hero.
  
  Life force. For needing it for minions, it sure was scarce. Some pieces of the highest level armor 
 use a few thousand minions. I never got more than 2500 life force during the course of the game 
 (at least, I estimated when I added up my stats at the end) . Maybe being truly evil gets you more. 
 I wasn't about to go farming for life force, the rate at which you get it during the game is just 
 incredibly slow as it is. On top of that, some of the bigger monsters and bosses should have dropped 
 more than they did. Some enemies didn't drop any at all.
  
  The tower. I have no idea where to begin with it. I thought that I would get to gradually see it 
 take shape, not just suddenly come back and have it all fixed up. I was hoping to get to plan the 
 design, even just a little bit. Or even have that option open to me. You can buy things for the 
 outside of your tower, why I have no idea - you never get to see the outside of your tower except 
 for momentary glimpses as you travel within it. The dungeon was more of an arena, I thought I'd 
 have actual jail cells with enemies I've defeated, maybe my own kind of menagerie. The forge was 
 rather straightforward, and I can see lots of combinations that can be made for armaments. But 
 I don't see how you can make more than 5-7 different items - let alone upgrade them - during the 
 course of the game. Its just too short. I couldn't find some of the items that I got from side 
 quests in my tower. Don't see how I could have missed them, though I might have. As for decorating 
 the tower... it was interesting. A nice small thing to do, just like I said before, I wish I had 
 more control of the overall look of the tower. Guess you can't have everything though.
  
  All in all, its a pretty good game. Its nice that the PC version was only 40 bucks, most games 
 seem to start at 50 nowadays. I haven't tried multi yet, so I can't comment on that, but the bread 
 and butter of the game is the single player. It will definitely entertain, and has some enjoyable 
 snarky humor. But when the end hit, I was left with a small sense of lack, I guess hoping there 
 was more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lokdawg78
Rating: 4.9
Date: Jun 28, 2007 1:31 pm PT
Review:  I was really excited to play Overlord when I first heard about it. I don't think I've played a 
 game that was focused solely on the evil side of a fantasy story.
  
  What a shock it was to find out that it was basically a bizarro Lord of the Rings game. A good 
 Sauron type must fight the evil Fellowship. How evil can you be when none of the peasants are afraid 
 of you? When they are actually relieved to see you? When the good guys are actually worse than 
 you are? That was the first let down. The senseless killing of people doesn't really have much 
 effect on the game itself.
  
  While I really like the minion aspect of the game, it can become an exercise in tedium and frustration 
 in later levels. All four types are very single task oriented and it can be a pain using the sweep 
 function. Not to mention the fact that only the blue type of minions can swim and they are by far 
 the most useless of all four minion types.
  
  This game is really nothing close to what I originally thought it was going to be. The style, characters, settings, 
 and quest style all feel too much like Fable. Its all incredibly familiar if you've played Fable, 
 but familiar nonetheless if you've played any fantasy game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stif42
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jun 28, 2007 11:04 am PT
Review:  this play could have been really good but there are two reasons which make it disappointing.
  
  firstly, you are not free of your movements : you can't jump and you are sometimes wedged in 
 front of a simple decent. it is not enormously awkward but it is anyway frustant.
  
  Secondly, the lack of map is really bad and you sometimes have to turn around before you find your 
 way.
  
  In conclusion this could have been a great game but it's just a funny game. I am not certain that 
 this game is in the category of the games which one hastens to finish. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikeycj7
Rating: 6.4
Date: Jun 28, 2007 10:27 am PT
Review:  like they said they could have done much more to the story and it would be cool if you could customize 
 what he looks like i think that would be cool in any game....... customization o yah i thought 
 the only thing that drove me through the game was the horde of minions and how you could test how 
 good you were and how there was different classes of minions. but the story is a must in my type 
 of game the story is what really drives me to play it and when it ends i want to feel like i did 
 something and when it ends poorly then i say to myself y did i play that! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TwoLines
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 28, 2007 9:55 am PT
Review:  Gamespot- I am really disappointed ! In my opinion, this game deserves better ! Look at the gameplay, 
 I mean- it's original and addictive ! Sound: One of the best voice acting out there (too bad music 
 is forgettable) , minions sound excellent and are funny ! Why you neglected that aspect so much 
 ? Why Ryan Davis ? Why ?! The only bad thing in this game is (no, not the camera- I did not have 
 ANY problem with that... and I must say ANY two times) it's graphics. They are not that great, 
 and you have the feeling that without all that sparkle it is fully playable on max details. Well.. 
 no. Even with Fables graphics, you may have problems (I know I had) . Except that- I really enjoyed 
 The Overlord. It's worth a try- really. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shred
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jun 28, 2007 9:31 am PT
Review:  I have to admit, I was a little skeptical about this game when I first heard about it. After playing 
 it for a few hours though, my thoughts quickly changed. Wreaking havoc with the minions is absolutely 
 a blast. I really liked the idea about adding a battle percentage modifier that increases when 
 the minions find new weapons and armor. I chuckled the first time I saw some of the minions wearing 
 pumpkins on their heads for helmets. The clincher for me though, was watching the minions drinking 
 ale from the tables, getting drunk, and then urinating everywhere. That alone added a point to 
 my review. ;) Seriously though, the game does suffer a little from control at times, especially 
 when you end up drowning your minions in water a few times. Anyone looking for a decent action/ 
 RTS game that will have you laughing quite often, should definitely check this game out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NotoriousFuzz
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 28, 2007 8:05 am PT
Review:  Overlord is a mix of Pikmin and Diablo, with influences of Dungeon Keeper and other games. Thankfully, 
 this is not a bad thing. Short of picking up and throwing your minions, you direct them around 
 with the mouse (which sometimes sticks) and rush your minions into battle, or houses, or boxes, 
 or basically anything you want to destroy, loot, or pillage. Using the PC, you use the left mouse, 
 defaulted to send minion , plus the second mouse, defaulted to recall minion , to engage sweep 
 mode by default to throw a horde of minions at whatever you want to do something to. As afore mentioned, 
 sometimes this 'sticks' so the camera goes wonky because you are still in minion control, but this 
 is easily fixed by tapping them together. Changing this option to a separate key is really useful. 
 The camera doesnt give you very many control options, as a look function would be nice, but they 
 arent really necessary as you wont be sending minions too far away from you at any given time. 
 Movement is WASAD + mouse, so typical FPS control.
  The finer points of minion control are a tad frustrating at first, but this passes pretty quickly. 
 The game does not do a very good job of introducing how to most efficiently control them, which 
 in a way is good because it gives you the opportunity to figure it out and utilize it more efficiently. 
 Even after 15 hours of play, still discovering new ways to use them. It is also a tad annoying 
 that you have to tell your minions to pick up new weapons or fetch some dropped gold for you, but 
 this can be overlooked. They are 'mindless minions' afterall. Furthermore, while powerful, your 
 Overlord is relatively weak when it comes to the throngs of enemies you are up against so it is 
 extremely disappointing when they die, particularly when they have good equipment and it occurs 
 en masse due to a troll belly-flop.
  It is very hard to make a game where you are evil. Even in Dungeon Keeper you could not be extremely 
 evil or you would have crappy minions. It never is a good attempt at evil without british voice 
 actors, which Overlord uses with some pretty good dialogue. If anything, there is not enough, and 
 occasionally the people you rescue repeat it over and over again, making you WANT to kill them. 
 Being evil has its uses, if only to shut whiny people up. The music is there, but sparse. For what 
 exists, its good, but I can see how it would get repetitive.
  Overall? Its fun! The game has a lot of cool features to it, and its just hilarious to see minions 
 riding sheep, stabbing people, wielding zombie arms and wearing pumpkins, and drinking into berserk 
 mode. Each of the bosses is the embodiment of some sort of fitting vice, so its really fun to finally 
 kill them off. Give it some time, and it will feel just right. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lastpick
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jun 28, 2007 1:41 am PT
Review:  I really think this game deserves a better score. I would agree with the posted review on most 
 counts but some things show that a minimum amount of time was spent reviewing the product. The 
 game was definitely tweaked to work best with an XBOX controller, and I would recommend playing 
 the game with one. Controlling the minions with the mouse is asking for frustration. The game does 
 suffer from the typical 3rd person camera woes but there are multiple preset camera angles (ie 
 behind, top, closeup) along with the free camera mode which alleviates all the but the difficult 
 to display camera view that occurs when you are to close to a large solid object like a cliff or 
 a house.
  
  In terms of linear gameplay, I would say the story does have a rather linear progression, but roaming 
 through the maps you can see that many of them will require you to re-visit them in order to find 
 and get any additional upgrades which will make the game easier. The initial progression of getting 
 the various tribes of minions plays out much like a tutorial whereas the obstacles are built one 
 upon another. I have yet to finish the game but I am at the point whereas I have all of the various 
 minions and can honestly say that the progression of difficulty has been at a nice steady pace. 
 The one major gripe I have regarding the game is one that PC gamers have complained about on consoles 
 for ages now and developers still refuse to listen, that complaint is with the save system. I am 
 an adult and have a life other than games and the idea of forcing me to save only when you deem 
 it is almost a dealbreaker, and if I had kids this is the type of game that will make it very difficult 
 to get the kids off the console or PC because you will constaly be hearing the phrase One more 
 minute, I can't save the game till I hit the next unknown Autosave checkpoint. Lastly, there have 
 been some problems due to the copy protection scheme, my only reply to this is when are companines 
 going to realize that it is a vast expense in terms of customer support and licensing costs, in 
 addition to being a real turnoff for the average consumer that has problems. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Beaul
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jun 27, 2007 6:06 pm PT
Review:  So I'll get this out of the way: I liked Pikmin, I liked Dungeon Keeper, and I loved Black and 
 White as one would love their life partner, and while the passion from that relationship is starting 
 to dull down, as they do for most relationships, it's still sort of there. All the while I was 
 told Overlord would combine the things I liked about these games and give them an evil twist.
 
  Well, sort of. In theory, the game design combines all these games, but the look and feel is much 
 different. It's like two parents came together and give birth to an autistic child- it's better 
 in some ways, and unbearable in others. It's different. In essence, you're an evil dude with a 
 tower, and you rebuild it to advance your evil empire against the heroes that stand against you... 
 like Dungeon Keeper. And you have a horde of dudes that you directly influence with a thumbstick 
 to solve puzzles, and you have four types of them at your disposal, different ones being able to 
 go through different terrains (red minions can walk through fire, etc) ... like Pikmin. So the story 
 is pretty basic, but it has a deep-ish philosophy behind it. Rather, it's deep enough that gamers 
 will find it thought-provoking, but 'artists' and critics for films and such won't find it to be 
 too big of a jump for video games (no, Roger Ebert, we have not reached the same level of pretentious 
 snottiness as you, let it be) . These heroes that have killed the previous Overlord, while good 
 in their own right, have let fame go to their heads and now personify the seven deadly sins. The 
 idea is that 'Evil people who believe to do Good are more dangerous than those who will freely 
 admit to being Evil'. It's sort of deep, but then again, basic philosophy.
  Anyway, that's the story. It's very well written; the characters are of course all evil and chaotic 
 and simply fun to watch. Even the wise Gnarl who advises you not to kill innocents (because it's 
 not conductive to a long-term Evil plan) admits that, yes, it's good for a giggle. And indeed it 
 is. The gameplay, in itself, is very entertaining. Even with only 15 minions at your disposal (50 
 at the end game) , you'll be clearing out castles and villages alike. And oh, is it ever fun. If 
 you actually know what you're doing, it all feels perfect, and yes, you feel like a true Overlord 
 in the heat of the moment.
  But only if you actually know what you're doing.
  It takes less than half an hour to learn the controls. It probably takes more than an hour to actually 
 -learn- the controls, as in, mastering the controls to the point that you can really use them properly. 
 It doesn't help that the PC version has these horrendous mouse controls, especially for 'sweeping' 
 (controlling the minions directly by holding down the two mouse buttons) . I caved in and just plugged 
 in an Xbox 360 controller, which by the way works wonderful, and doesn't require any configuration 
 on the players' behalf. So the controls are a bit more complicated than necessary- that's not the 
 main culprit in dragging this game down, however. Oh no, there is one incredibly stupid mistake 
 on the developers' part that makes the game play almost unplayable at certain times, mostly exploration.
 
  I speak of the completely unforgivable lack of a map system.
  There is absolutely no reason for this. The worlds are large hallways, just like Fable. At first, 
 the lack of a mini-map pleased me because at least the world didn't feel like a hallway- without 
 that image of the 'walls' of the area being put in front of me, what I saw was an organic world 
 with only a few paths, which suited me just fine.
  But then I got lost. And quickly. The problem is that certain areas just look the same; one gate 
 looks no different from the other. The gate that leads to the castle is indistinguishable from 
 the one leading to the halfling village. Villagers often say 'GO EAST TO GET TO THE VILLAGE AND 
 SAVE THESE DUDES' but, no, there's no compass, so these 'directions' really only serve to piss 
 you off. It's like saying 'over there' without pointing or nodding or... anything.
  Aside from that, Overlord is a very enjoyable experience. And, for the love of all things good, 
 just buy the PC version- there is no reason whatsoever to shill an extra 20 dollars for the 360 
 version, unless you don't have the PC necessary to run this game. If you have a PC and a 360, even 
 better, because the 360 controller just feels more natural. The final word? Buy this game; you'll 
 get a little pissed off at times due to the somewhat irritating controls and the lack of a map 
 system, but there really is nothing quite like ransacking a place with a horde of imp things wearing 
 pumpkins on their heads. It's sort of like therapy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: godofwarfan2929
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 27, 2007 4:59 pm PT
Review:  Overlord Is Great For A Stand Alone Game But....
  Its Way Too Easy To Beat The AI Is As Dumb As Rocks But Not Always.
  I Spent Over 100 Hours Playing 
 Overlord Because It Was So Addictive.
  The Controls You Will Conquer At Least When You Play For 20 Minutes.
  The Gameplay Is Very Good 
 But Could Be Improved Just A Little.
  The Graphics Are Very High Which Is Impressive Just A Little More Would Make It Look Like A 360 
 Game.
  The Soundtrack Is Very Good I Must Say There Is Nothing To Be Improved Here.
  The Value Is Definitely Worth This Game So Buy It Now
  If Your Looking For A Highly Addictive 
 Game This Is The One. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tallb0y
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 27, 2007 1:41 pm PT
Review:  I almost played the demo on the 360 but the pull of the family is too strong. So I picked it up 
 so that I had something single player to try on the train to work. Started it up and played through 
 the tutorial and wow.... this game is super fun. The interactive tutorials along with the few yet 
 helpful hints has you controlling your minions like a champ. I'm only a few hours in and I would 
 definitely recommend this game to both adventure and RTS enthusiasts looking for a change of pace. 
 The only cons I have are you DEFINITELY have to tweak mouse sensitivity and the sweeping controls 
 could use some slight work IMO. Sweeping basically lets you control your dudes from afar and I 
 had some rough patches using it.
  
  All in all I play a lot of games and this was the first one to really grab me in a while. Enjoy! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CFERRER
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jun 27, 2007 1:10 pm PT
Review:  This game introduces us into a new generation of PC gaming, with great action, excellent graphics 
 and sound and in my humble personal opinion a great TRAMA!
  
  Since the Intro video you can imagine an incredible fantasy game, but when you start playing you 
 can say it is much better than you imagined.
  
  I recommend you to have a nice video card and sound card with good sound system, if you have that, 
 you will have a very interest gaming experience.
  
  The Game is AWESOME, its been years since I haven't played a game like this, if you have the chance 
 to buy a game... DON'T THINK IT TWICE!! BUY IT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: magicquebec
Rating: 6.1
Date: Jun 27, 2007 11:18 am PT
Review:  I played the demo and it was the kind of game that sleeps on your desktop...
  Didnt really like it, the fun factor wasent there. They force you into too much stuff, like there 
 a boulder blocking the way... OHH use your imp to move them... C'mon!!
  
  Oh and the controls sucked. I think it's more of a console game that they threw on the PC, i think 
 it's just a fun renting game, you play for 2-3 days, then you return it and forget it. I think 
 for the same price out there, there's better game, but at least Overlord is original, for people 
 looking for a new game and not a clone of a previous game, try overlord. But don't expect too much, 
 won't be in the top 10 games of the year.
  
  But hey, thats just MY oppinion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jono0
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 27, 2007 10:36 am PT
Review:  Overlord is one of the best RPG out there.
  You are the overlord, who woke up a lot of time after your castle has been trashed by the 7 Heroes 
 (Which by the way, the main goal of this game is to kill all 7 heroes and become the ultimate overlord) , 
 much like in Black And White, you have the choice of being evil or good... only this time, you 
 can be evil, or REALLY evil, and there is quite a difference, for example, you can kill people, 
 OR, Help the people first, get some more money (which is used to upgrade you and and your tower) 
 AND THAN kill them haha.
  Oh, and how could I forget, you also have minions, which do everything you tell them! from killing, 
 to running around, to destroy stuff, to even drink some beer! (but if they drink it... well... 
 lets just say the place wont smell so good) .
  There are 4 main types of Minions: Browns, Reds, Greens and Blues.
  Browns are the strongest 
 minions, and can wield every weapon in in the game.
  Reds are immune to fire, and can shoot fireballs and vanish flames, to clear the path.
  Greens 
 are immune to poison, and can stab enemies at the back, and when on guard, they can also be nearly 
 invisible to enemies... unless these enemies have a nose, because these minions smell BAD.
  Blues can swim, unlike other minions, and they can also heal fallen ones.
  
  This game may 
 look easy, but its full of huge puzzles that require you to think, before you act. The voices in 
 this game are great, and the script is pretty amusing....
  Now, lets get technical:
  Gameplay: As said above, this One of a kind game is really awesome, its fun battles and puzzles 
 are interesting and cool. Also, there is a lot of re-play value.
  Graphics: While its not the best looking game around, Overlord is not such a bad looking game.
 
  Sound: the voice acting and background music are fun and interesting to hear, even if it gets 
 a little repetitive.
  Value: If you are going to buy 1 (one) game this year, you MUST buy this one, you wont regret it!
 
  Tilt: not much to say :)
  
  Overall: This game is one heck of an amazing game, and if you like RPGs, or even just about any 
 other types of games, i really really recommend you to buy this game! 9.3/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kplaya872
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 27, 2007 9:57 am PT
Review:  First off the graphics in the game when maxed are gorgeous and will tax your system if its on the 
 lower spectrum or just meets the reqs. The environments are lush and immerse you into the world 
 where you are the one ruler. The Loading times are almost nil, moving between certain areas pops 
 up a screen that last maybe a few seconds. This is understandable however as each area is quite 
 large and heavily detailed with lots of destructible content (perfect for the more evil types)
 
  The Audio is very good with tons of dialog and good voices to go along with the characters.
  The story is fairly straight forward and their are many quest to pursue and multiple ways of ending 
 each quest which can effect peoples feelings towards you as a ruler. This game has tons of replayability 
 and is very easy to learn. The beginning level/tutuorial teaches you every thing you need to know 
 in about 15 minutes or so and even then its a fun tutorial!
  Overall id give this game about a 9.2/10 because of its fun factor, its take on the rpg good vs 
 evil struggle, meaning evil vs really evil, the small learning curve, and the absolutely amazing 
 graphics and sound 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BEER4BOTTLEz
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jun 27, 2007 6:14 am PT
Review:  This game is 100% original, there is nothing here that would remind you of any other game, and 
 all in a good way because the game is very well done and playing it is incredibly fun.
  
  Also controling dozens of other units (the slavishly royal minions) is ALLOT of fun, especialy 
 when it is done in such a clean and organized fashion, I never woulda thought to see something 
 like this outside of a RTS. 10/10
  
  The voice acting is also superb, and the in-game jokes are actually quite funny. The graphics are 
 not revolutionary, they are still good when on highest. The controls are smooth and effortless, 
 the AI is very very very smart, probably the best AI I have ever seen. Overall, a perfect game, 
 worth buying, playing and keeping. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dttk0009
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 27, 2007 3:22 am PT
Review:  Trying to classify this game in a single genre could prove difficult, as it feels like many different 
 elements have been thrown into a melting pot. This game feels like a Black and White, but it is 
 far more addictive, and much more action packed. Your minions are hilariously loyal, you'll find 
 yourself chuckling as you send them to their doom. It's honestly been a while since I've found 
 myself having this much fun playing a game, and this is most definitely a breath of fresh air from 
 the World War II and FPS games that seem to have just been pumping out over the last couple of 
 years. The game-play is still a little buggy, and the fact that it's capped at 30 fps could tick 
 a few hardcore gamers off, but that doesn't take away from the fun factor. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zylac
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 26, 2007 11:15 pm PT
Review:  Overlord caught me by suprise. The game had been on my radar for awhile, but i never really intended 
 on playing it. But recently having playing it, I was blown away. The graphics are great, the gameplay 
 and control is fantastic and the comedic humour makes the game that much more enjoyable! Controlloing 
 your minions is easy, and building your evil tower and forging new weapons and armor is alot of 
 fun! Plus the minions you control are hilarious with their little comments. This game is very fun 
 and very addictive! I definetely recommend it to any gamer, especially those who like action adventure 
 games with somewhat of a hack and slash feel to it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tara__35
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 26, 2007 10:56 pm PT
Review:  I see that some give this game a low score and i cannot fathom why. The game is simply great. You 
 (The Evil Overlord) are given a bunch of small gremlin-like creatures and you are charged with 
 the task of wreaking havoc with them! Honestly, i haven't seen this much fun and charm in a game 
 since the original Black and White. The graphics (although not exactly up to date) look good even 
 at lower settings, the gameplay is enjoyable and the music and sounds in the game are amazing, 
 including the voice overs which are quite comical. The formula is brilliant. Lots of puzzle solving, 
 a good amount of combat, good use of strategy (so one cant just button mash and get to the end 
 of the game) .
  
  Fable + Black and White + EVIL = THIS GAME! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
