-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Overclocked: A History of Violence
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/adventure/overclocked/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Deep, engaging story with lifelike characters and dialogue.
 Puzzles smoothly integrated into the storyline.
 Intuitive point-and-click interface.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Visuals and sound aren't quite up to contemporary standards.
 Dark and depressing story.
 Relies heavily on established conventions.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: May  2, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.5
Critic Score: 7.2, 19 Review (s)
User Score: 7.3, 322 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Lighthouse Interactive
Developer: House of Tales
Genre: Adventure
Date:     Apr 7, 2008
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Overclocked may be awfully grim, but a deep story and smart, subtle puzzles make it captivating 
 in spite of its macabre tone. 

  If you're looking to chase the blues away, don't go anywhere near Overclocked. This point-and-click 
 adventure from developer House of Tales is a certifiable downer in every possible way. It's set 
 in a rainy, windswept New York City being deluged by the storm of the century. The protagonist 
 is a forensic shrink looking into cases of contagious psychosis. That is, when he's not dealing 
 with divorcing his wife. Much of the game takes place in a dungeon of an asylum that should have 
 been closed down in the 1890s. And just about everybody you run into displays the famous New York 
 hospitality that makes the city beloved across the nation.  

           Spending your days chatting with psychotics probably isn't the cheeriest of professions. 

  Sound like fun yet? But even though the game seems geared to have you reaching for the Prozac by 
 the end of the first chapter, Overclocked still manages to draw you in. At first, the game holds 
 the same morbid appeal as a car accident in that you just have to stick around to rubberneck and 
 see how bad things can get for all the poor people involved in this train wreck of a tale. After 
 the initial fascination fades, the game hooks you into unraveling the mystery with a great blend 
 of realistic characterization, fast-paced and well-written dialogue, and expertly integrated point-and-click 
 puzzles.  

  You play Dr. David McNamara, an expert psychologist in memory recall called in by NYPD detective 
 Joe Moretti to do some head-shrinking on five teenagers who went bananas in an extravagantly violent 
 fashion and were subsequently found wandering the streets of the Big Apple. All have been locked 
 up in an asylum on Staten Island that's about as creepy as the average haunted house and is administered 
 by a resentful doctor and a head nurse who's borrowed her hairstyle and attitude from Nurse Ratched. 
 Your goal is to find out what happened to these mental cases, but this task is complicated by McNamara's 
 own anger issues and full-blown marital meltdown.  

  Much of the story revolves around looking back through the eyes of McNamara's patients. Every time 
 he begins analysis sessions with the wackos in question, the game flips into a flashback mode that 
 puts you in their shoes before they went crazy. This is where nearly all of the puzzle-solving 
 takes place, as McNamara deals mainly with conversations and playing amateur gumshoe until the 
 hands-on conclusion. The average brainteaser here is fairly traditional. You fool around with codes 
 to open doors, use items like metal bars, gloves, and rocks in various ways to accomplish objectives, 
 and so on. It's should all be familiar to anyone who's played a point-and-click adventure sometime 
 over the past couple of decades.  

  But the game doesn't beat you down with adventure-game cliches. While you have to pick up the odd 
 item, you're not hoarding stuff like a shopping-cart lady. Generally, you've got no more than a 
 handful of puzzle-solving objects in your possession at any one time, and they are always sensible 
 accoutrements like a brick or a flashlight or a can of gas needed to fire up a Molotov cocktail. 
 Grabbing a flag off a jeep for no apparent reason is about as illogical as the game gets, and its 
 usefulness becomes obvious in just a couple of minutes. This change in adventure philosophy is 
 nicely hammered home at the very start of the game. When McNamara heads to the Staten Island Ferry 
 dock to catch a ride to the asylum, one of the first things he can click on is a giant rope. Naturally, 
 given traditional adventure-game logic, you'll try to pick it up -- only to have the good doctor 
 quite sensibly retort, "I'm not going to drag that around with me." Point taken. And appreciated. 

  All this reliance on common sense when it comes to solving puzzles makes Overclocked move along 
 at a pretty quick clip. It's amazing how not having to constantly pixel hunt speeds up gameplay 
 (although there are a couple of really dark scenes that do require some careful looking around) . 
 Dialogue has also been written with an eye on the clock. While it's unfortunate that sentences 
 can't be skipped through without bypassing whole scenes, every line is delivered in a smart, snappy 
 fashion, so at least there is no meandering. Characters almost always get right to the point. Another 
 plus for those who don't like wasting any time is the smooth interface. Nobody's reinvented the 
 wheel here, although the old point-and-click formula is handled perfectly with cursor icons that 
 change to eyes, hands, opening doors, and the like depending on how you can interact with objects. 
 No muss, no fuss.  

           Flashback time!      

  Look and sound might cause a few grumbles, though. The 3D engine on display here is a couple of 
 years behind the times when compared to PC gaming in general. Too many rooms are devoid of details, 
 as if the developers ran out of time or budget to furnish them properly. At times, it seems like 
 you're on a half-finished movie set. Animations are awkward, especially when McNamara runs, and 
 a lot of annoying canned animations slow the game down, too. McNamara's ponderous kneel-down every 
 time he talks to a patient seems to take a thousand years. Still, the graphics stand up well overall, 
 with a nicely varied color palette and fine details on faces during conversation close-ups. Audio 
 is of a similar good-not-great quality. Voice acting is capable, with only a few characters speaking 
 their lines like they're speaking English for the first time or reciting the yellow pages. The 
 musical score is quite engaging as well, if not exactly varied. You'll likely get very sick of 
 the plink-plink-plink signature piano notes and techno thrash awfully fast.  

  It's advisable not to go anywhere near Overclocked if you're looking for a game to cheer you up. 
 But for anyone who doesn't mind a dash of hopelessness in an adventure, the immersive story and 
 smooth puzzles in this game come off like a bright ray of sunshine.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (16 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Whenever
Rating: 4.5
Date: Mar 2, 2009 5:31 am PT
Review:  In Overclocked you play as a psychiatrist David McNamara trying to recover the memories of 5 young 
 people. The main character David has many personal problems to solve as well.
  
  Overclocked itself is not so much a game, but more a interactive movie. Often you go from cut scene 
 to cut scene. Even if you can do something in a flashback, then it is very linear and easy. When 
 you are controlling David mostly your task is to play taped recollections to patients to trigger 
 more flashbacks. There definitely aren't any puzzles in this game. 
  
  The story tries to do much more than it ends up to be. It contains many standard expected elements 
 seen usually in films like the main character having personal problems, much of the game taking 
 place in desolate buildings, the constant stormy weather etc. The ending turned out to be very 
 disappointing and left many things still unsolved like why the patients needed to escape anyway. 
 The story seems rushed and simplified towards the ending leaving it unbelievable.
  
  One of the most annoying aspects is that when you want to skip some text, it is not possible as 
 you can only skip entire conversations and cut scenes. The game crashes occasionally when loading 
 a new scene, so it is necessary to remember to save often.
  
  The graphics are comparable to most other adventure games. It is the small number of animations 
 that is annoying. When controlling the character, he seems only capable of walking and running, 
 for all most other activities the screen goes black and the activity is done then. Also in cut 
 scenes the characters' faces hardly show any emotions.
  
  The voice acting is not that bad, but often muffled by the repetitive music. The dialogs are mostly 
 believable, but the faces showing no emotions make them at times ridiculous.
  
  The main frustration with this game is that you suffer through the poor game play to find out what 
 happened to the patients only to arrive at an unsatisfying and unbelievable ending.
  
  All in all there much better games to spend your time on. This one offers no challenges and a disappointing 
 story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kurczas
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 19, 2009 10:50 am PT
Review:  The game is realatively good - very interesting storyline and gameplay at the beggining that unluckily 
 becomes boring with time due to repeating of the same actions. The action/riddles comes to one 
 thing - finding the way out/in/ finding smth...
  
  The story line is in 'Memento' movie style - it goes from now till past - it is very interesting 
 however may be also a bit difficult to follow. After finishing the game I still don't know what 
 happened with kids and why they wanted to escape from the island... The plot has some holes.
  
  The main character that we play is very interesting, it's psychological profile, behaviour, 
 past - all of this is the main strenght of the game. It just feels good to play a character that 
 is hidiing something dark and mysterious and loses it from time to time.
  
  GOOD:
  - interesting stroyline
  - psychology of main chracter
  
  BAD:
  - repeatable tasks
  - 
 some plot holes
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: andruxandd
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 3, 2009 1:32 am PT
Review:  Overclocked was a great game, original, authentic through story and eventfulness. A game with more 
 flashback and telaesthesia and finally, total recall.
  
  Overclocked is a full case of the psychologist McNamara who need to discover a full story of five 
 young teenagers, two girls and three boys which, as the case stands, are captive in a insane asylum 
 and they don't remember anything, neither how they arrived at the asylum or what they do in the 
 past.
  
  The game is very different from other adventure-games, not so stereotyped point-and-click. It's 
 more than that, we need to break (with more help of McNamara, sure) in minds of 5 young teenagers 
 and break the headpiece of amnesia for find a true of what happend in this story with crimes, yes, 
 blood and violences but finally with a good and strong end.
  
  I recommend this game with power, not for very young people because is hard and rough some times 
 but very consistent and rational, without fancy-fantasy, good dialogs, strong and again... more mystery, 
 keep by the end.
  
  Graphics: 8
  Story: 10
  Gameplay:10
  Sound&music: 9
  END : 10
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: askelly35
Rating: 3
Date: Jan 22, 2009 6:35 am PT
Review:  Overclocked has an interesting story and some well developed characters but it was painfully slow 
 with very few puzzle elements. The main 'puzzle' is your ability to play back recorded sessions 
 in the right order to the right patient to advance the story. This would launch the next cutscene... 
 and there were many, many cutscenes... And yes, it's a dreary story, with dreary lanscapes... but 
 the story was interesting, enough that I finished the game because I needed to know how the 5 patients 
 got to their zombie state... and I needed to know what was happening to the protagonist, David McNamara.
 
  
  Unfortunately, I found the ending to be a disappointment . To me it was one of those 'that's it?' 
 moments, like in flims where the monster turns out to be a guy in a suit...
  
  You'll need patience for this one... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bostaph
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 9, 2009 3:57 pm PT
Review:  Basically, the story is pretty interesting. You assume the role of a shrink who is called on by 
 the Pentagon to investigate 5 teenagers who have lost their memory and who were found wondering 
 in the streets of NY City, half naked and armed with handguns.
  I think the game started strongly, you get to know your character, what kind of person he is, his 
 marital problems, his financial turmoil etc.
  The story gets better when you start investigating your patients. They have flashbacks and they 
 become playable characters as the story unfolds.
  I think the storyline could have been better but still... The voice acting for most of the characters 
 were not that bad except for the attorney Terry Ingram which was bad.
  Honestly, I was disappointed with the ending but it was an enjoyable and addictive game which I 
 completed in a day and a half.
  I recommend this game to anyone who likes point and click adventure games and for fans of mysteries 
 and thrillers. 7.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghettodoghammer
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 3, 2008 1:34 pm PT
Review:  A 7.5 rating? You've got to be kidding me, Gamespot. Overall, the quality of the game is poor in 
 every aspect, bad sound and music, bad graphics, bad story and plot, dull conversations, very little 
 interactive hotspots (in most screens there is not much to click on) , lack of any puzzles at all, 
 just repetitive playing of a recorder. Even the title is misleading, as the main character puts 
 in a lot of hours but he doesn't work on the clock anyway. Overall a waste of the twenty bucks 
 I paid for it in the store.
  
  I want to bring up the stupifyingly dumb and offensive message of the game. 
  
  Now the Spoiler.
 
  
  The game's underlying message is that violent video games cause young people to be violent. To 
 put that into a video game is completely stunning, something akin to watching a porno that shows 
 men going blind from masturbating If the developers really think that video games cause violence, 
 then they shouldn't be in the video game industry, period. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RighteousAnger
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 30, 2008 6:30 am PT
Review:  I haven't played too many games within the Adventure genre. This game is one of the few, and that 
 was in large part due to the reviews that I had read on this site and some popular gaming sites. 
 Upon completion of the game, I have to say that it was worth my time... largely because it didn't 
 take up much of my time. I completed it in probably under 20 hours. 
  The strength of the game lies in its story and atmosphere as well as the seeming complexity of 
 the main character. However, the weaknesses lie, in large part, in its editing of the story. 
 
  Reviewing this game is sorta difficult for me actually, because while I ultimately liked the game, 
 I really don't know how to back it up. Because for every positive aspect, there's something else 
 detracting from it. For example, I think the story was rather intriguing, although the editing 
 seemed pretty poor as each of the parts of the story weren't exactly cohesive and left alot of 
 questions at the end. It sort of left you feeling that some events in the story were simply contrived 
 in order to move the game along rather than to move the story along convincingly, if that makes 
 sense. The "Memento" style layout helped to cover up these fallacies however. Furthermore, as the 
 game began to speed to a close, I couldn't help but feel that the developers were probably crunched 
 for time as the plot began spiraling down even faster, and in some cases left several details of 
 the story way behind. A few of the character conversations even began to get a little quirky and 
 not make a whole lot of sense probably because they were edited at the last moment in order to 
 shorten up the story. In fact, when the story ended, it actually left me scratching my head at 
 one aspect, thinking "What? Why? That makes no sense." The main character was definitely a strong 
 point in the story. You really empathized with him and felt his frustrations and irritations. Also, 
 the dialogue was very well written and rather enjoyable to follow. Although, while some of the 
 voice-overs could have been redone much better, I thought most were well done and pretty convincing.
 
  One interesting aspect about this game was the game play. This game was actually more of an interactive 
 story than a deeply challenging game of puzzles. But I have to say, I didn't mind it. In fact, 
 I rather enjoyed that aspect as that helped the focus remain on the story and helped keep it moving 
 at a good manageable pace. The puzzles that were available were not that difficult. I only used 
 a walk-through a few times and that was only to help keep the story moving as I didn't want to 
 spend too much time working them out.
  Now, based on my critiques of the game, it seems as though I didn't like it, but ironicallyI did. 
 Furthermore, I'm glad I played it. And I think you should to.
  
  Pros:
  - Intriguing story.
  - Strong atmosphere.
  - Mysterious main character.
  - Good pace.
  
 - Game play (if you don't mind easy puzzles and very few at that)
  
  Cons:
  - Poor editing.
  - Story sometimes lacked cohesion and left asking quite a few questions that 
 shouldn't have to be asked at the end.
  - Game play (if you like lots of challenging puzzles)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: freudlacan
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 10, 2008 10:58 pm PT
Review:  Im a psychologist but i dont know any psychologist that uses hypnosis, but skiping that well this 
 guy its not making therapy but bringuing back stolen memories, so I can forgive him (or the producers 
 of the game) You cant also sit like a catcher when doing therapy, Ive played the catcher in some 
 baseball games and its painfull, never thinking on doing therapphy like that, but maybe doing making 
 the character draguing a chair into isolation chambers was to much for the designers, so I can 
 also forgive that.
  
  I gues whats important here its the history. If you are a gamer you know the main characters, the 
 ones you play with, ussually dont have any past, and if they do its some dark past, sacary past, 
 geneticaly engeniered past, or things like that, but when you are starting a game and everybody 
 goes down on you telling you hace problems, you need a shrink, yo are an alcoholic, you did "something" 
 to your waife, yo have to get depressed, cause you say come on Im the hero of this game, I think 
 im doing something good, how could I be suth a bad person?
  
  And yeap, thast the feeling that you get when you play overclocked, and its something that makes 
 this game a "pretty special" game, it really makes even you untrust this guy you`r playing with.
 
  
  I also have to say avoiding the spoillers, its that what he finds its exactly why I belive its 
 not a fiction, but something that happens in lost of gamers houses evey day, and its something 
 more complex than this game shows.
  
  About the game mechanics, well some discouraging items searches that makes you go up and down to 
 many times for my taste, but dont get discouraged by that.
  
  As a Whole its a pretty good game, great history, nice dawings some puzzles and a nice experience.
 
  
  More games like this showing us what goverments are doing behind owr backs every day should be 
 made. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pacbman
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 4, 2008 8:14 pm PT
Review:  Just finished playing Overclocked and after playing a slough of poorly storied adventure games, 
 Overclocked is definitely a breath of fresh air. 
  Part Hitchcockian mystery with part Shyamalan story twists, Overclocked had a satisfying conclusion 
 to a rich full story with little twists and turns along the way to keep you wondering what the 
 heck was going to happen at the end! 
  All of the characters in the story were well fleshed out and even some of the ones you don't see 
 often such as the nurse at the hospital are easily recognized and definitely have their own personality. 
 
  The only part of the game that is a little monotonous is the audio recordings used to trigger the 
 flashbacks for the teenagers that are in the hospital. While necessary to go through the recordings 
 it gets a little tiresome hearing the same audio recording being played over and over to the different 
 characters until a response from the physciatrist McNamara indicates you can progress further in 
 the story via flashbacks.
  A few questions remained unanswered, (such as where did all of the blood in the hallway come from?!) 
 but like many a good mystery you're left scratching your head and trying to find a way to place 
 it in the overall story wether it fits or not!
  I would highly recommend this game! Let's see some more like it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: godziv
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 27, 2008 4:42 pm PT
Review:  The game starts very strong , the music score is quite good . The game isn't very tough but it 
 doesn't matter since it is so enjoyable.
  
  This is very different from the previous adventure games. There is passion , violence, outburst, 
 wackos everywhere, divorce issues, you name it.
  
  You can't stop playing because the game is so well done even though you will visit a lot of the 
 same areas. This game is different , you have passions when you play because the characters in 
 the games have some also .... and you kinda get into their passions or frustrations.
  
  The game isn't long and difficult but it is very logic, you don't have to find stupid things that 
 makes no sense like some adventure games.
  
  Am very impress by this game..... it is the first time , i feel the intensity so much in an adventure 
 game.
  
  Congratulation for the designer of the games.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: flover2006
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 30, 2008 10:05 pm PT
Review:  Overclocked begins in new but not revolutionary fashion and keeps it and even improves it throughout 
 the game. This one is one of the most innovative games in terms of story telling while it lacks 
 real challenging puzzle solving which is good in my humble opinion as a story lover it will certainly 
 has the best possible ending which is more better and believable than Indigo Prophecy too. Without 
 insane puzzles to solve the game is a sweet and challenging experience and you will get the feel 
 like you are playing a Hollywood suspense movie not only as the main character but as various side 
 characters too. the idea of hypnotic recollections is very brilliant and the story is well implemented. 
 demos are beautifully done and camera shots are unbelievably induce a cinematic experience on gamers. 
 Despite all these good things there are also some annoying facts about this title too and the most 
 obvious of them is using of voice recordings as event triggers in the game which is a painful experience 
 when it comes to decide to play which one on which victim. The game is also full of places and 
 objects you will never have to interact with them and outdoor voices of Morreti (Police Officer) 
 is cold and emotion less but these are really little things compared to the adventure value of 
 the game. For those who involved in this project in the house of Tales this would be a successful 
 yet another solid title. for those who buy it, it will at last add a very interesting conspiracy 
 theory story to your never ending list of such stories in 21st century which seems to be the century 
 of overt conspiracies. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rainbowschaser
Rating: 8
Date: May 27, 2008 12:55 am PT
Review:  This game has a really good story about a psychiatrist who goes to a mental hospital to try and 
 find out why these kids have become mentally ill and have been wondering around NYC barely dressed 
 and shooting guns for no reason. He uses hypnosis and you learn why they have these violent urges 
 as well as his own. His wife wants a divorce because of his violent past. In the end, you learn 
 why. The story is VERY DEPRESSING. I think it makes Half Life 2 seem like a comedy. For example, 
 you have a deer caught in barbed wire and you have to kill it to take it out of its misery, I have 
 no idea why it was in the game and it was pretty awful as the deer is screaming in pain. It did 
 nothing for the story and seem to make no sense. I had two major crashes and I have no idea why. 
 The loading time of the animated scenes took forever- I never saw any game take so long to load. 
 It has no patches. Do LOTS of saves since it does not do automatic ones and if it crashes, you 
 will have no idea where in the world you are when you get back in as it erases everything you did. 
 The click and point movement is a bit of a drag but you get used to it. It did have some pretty 
 hard to solve action sequences. The last part was really hard. All in all a pretty cool game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mac631
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 16, 2008 9:43 pm PT
Review:  Well when I saw this game in the first sight and i thought this is another Indigo Prophecy which 
 is a masterpiece. So I played it and here is the thought.
  
  You play as David, a psychologist and work in NY. Five patients from the mental hospital were linked 
 to each other and found in the same place. You can play as the patients in flashbacks, solving 
 puzzles, blablabla. The storyline is boring in the first but once it reaches climax, the story 
 goes mysterious and exciting to play.
  
  The game can be easily stuck in certain stages so you need a walkthrough for sure. The length of 
 this game is short and the ending is terrible, it doesn't let you know the entire story, how it 
 goes. Still many cases left unknown.
  
  Graphic is fair and unsatisfied. The character is broken and not OK. Sound is above OK and it shines 
 in flashbacks. Well here is the issue when I'm playing in Vista, the game regularly closed for 
 no reason and i think this is a bug.
  
  Overall this game is not good and not bad. Worth your time to play but you won't remember this 
 game for long. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ciremi
Rating: 8
Date: May 14, 2008 6:40 pm PT
Review:  It seems as though the adventure game genre has past its prime. House of Tales newest game, Overclocked, 
 breathes life back into the genre, but despite the freshness, it will leave you feeling a little 
 under-whelmed and wanting more.
  
  The story revolves around David McNamara, a psychologist, who has come to New York to assist the 
 NYPD with their most bizarre case to date. Five individuals have all been picked up around the 
 city all screaming and acting strangely. It is up to David to help them remember what happened 
 to them. At the same time David is facing ghosts of his own as his bank account freezes and his 
 wife asks for a divorce. Plus, his history keeps popping up, especially the part about him being 
 discharged from the army.
  
  One thing that Overclocked does really well is make you feel for David, along with the five patients. 
 You play as David most of the time, and upon examining and talking with the patients you will be 
 dropped into their shoes and play out their memories, which follow through in a very Memento-esque 
 kind of way. It is a bold change for an adventure game and it works really well. You want to know 
 what happened next and what has been done to these kids.
  
  Unfortunately for every yin there is also a yang. The game is far too short, completed in less 
 than three day's time. And whilst Overclocked starts out with a great premise, many, (and I agree) 
 believe that the ending of the game is far too predictable and a letdown. We never fully get a 
 whole complete story, and by the time the game shifts gears by the sixth chapter it begins to deflate 
 like a balloonreally anticlimactically. The game tosses as many red herrings at you than the film 
 88 Minutes, but fails to keep our disbelief suspended long enough, and we sort of know who the 
 baddie is going to be within the first few hours of gameplay.
  
  There are also a few issues with gameplay, such as the annoying bit where David will only speak 
 on his PDA in certain locations, and the annoying bits where he goes to the bar, downs four whiskeys 
 and has no different walk animation or speech problems moving around. What a trooper. For a game 
 that has great attention to detail in the graphics, small touches would have made my playing experience 
 that much better.
  
  It is amazing how in-the-zone you'll get when you begin to utilize the PDA recordings and attempt 
 to stimulate responses out of the patients, so much so that you'll find it very hard to find a 
 good place to stop.
  
  A great game for any adventure gamers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ivory_soul
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 8, 2008 10:11 am PT
Review:  The Good: Great dark story, decent graphics for mid-range computers, easy interface, puzzles aren't 
 too hard or too easy
  
  The Bad: Not for the kids, really short, story takes forever too get really good, iffy voice acting, 
 long character animations
  
  Overclocked is one of those rare indie games that go unnoticed but are really good. This is a simple 
 point and click adventure where it's so simple that you don't even use your keyboard. The game 
 has an easy to use menu. All your items are on the bottom of your screen... that's it. You use your 
 cell phone to record your sessions (more on that later) , receive text messages, and make calls. 
 You are David McNamara who is a shrink and is called to Staten Island where he has to find out 
 what happened to five teenagers. The game also has you overlooking David's personal life wish a 
 hard break up with his wife. The game's story doesn't really start picking up until 75% through 
 the game. You just get bits and pieces here and there and it becomes confusing until near the end. 
 Most of the game has you going back and forth from 5 different cells in the hospital recording 
 sessions and playing them back to other patients to trigger memories. During most of these memories 
 you have to play as the patient and figure out what to do in that memory. Some have you assembling 
 a way to blow up a gate to escape by finding hoses, a flag, a bottle, and gasoline etc. You can 
 also go back and forth to your hotel, a bar, and what not to trigger different cut scenes. The 
 story does keep you in long enough until it really grabs you near the end. I just wish the animations 
 for everything weren't so long though. Sometimes you'll swear the game froze up because the character 
 will pause for 5 seconds or so before going into another animation. The graphics are also pretty 
 good and most mid-range computers can run it on high settings. The game has pre-rendered backgrounds 
 for this reason. The puzzles are pretty neat and aren't too hard to solve really. If you can't 
 figure out a place to look you can hold down Space and it will show you every place on screen you 
 can investigate. Overall Overclocked is great for fans of story telling and/or PC adventure games. 
 This game isn't for kids though because it is a very depressing and gory game. I would check this 
 out if you have nothing else to do. Unfortunately, I couldn't finish the game because I played 
 3 chapters I didn't save, and my game froze so I just uninstalled it. I didn't get to see the ending, 
 but I wish I could have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bruca
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 28, 2008 9:23 am PT
Review:  The storyline is surprisingly good, same goes for the characters representations and voice/sound 
 effects. The graphics look great for a "point-and-click adventure" game. The action of the game 
 is very well put together and makes you think a lot. I can say the story is captivating cause it 
 kept me wondering right to the end what actually happened to those teenagers. The ending might 
 seem a bit abrupt for some players but i can't think of a better one. Sometimes the "puzzles" were 
 too easy to solve and there's not alot of scenery locations so i can't rate the game over 8. 
 
  
  As a side-note... the storyline seems almost authentic to me, cause i did hear about similar types 
 of "experiments" from various sources...
  
  Anyways, i just finished the game 10min's before writing this review and i can say i'm left with 
 a "it was worth my time" feeling. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
