-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Pac-Man: Adventures in Time
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/puzzle/pacmanadventuresintime/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 16, 2000
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.3
Critic Score: 7.8, 9 Review (s)
User Score: 8.0, 73 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Hasbro Interactive
Developer: Creative Asylum
Genre: Action
Date:     Oct 31, 2000
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Adventures in Time is an attempt to bring Pac-Man back to his roots, but with surprisingly solid 
 3D graphics, good level design, and a few new gameplay features. 

 When the original Pac-Man hit arcades well over a decade ago, it was an instant hit because of its 
 distinctive graphics and simple yet challenging and addicting gameplay. Since then, there have 
 been a number of games featuring the jovial pellet-eating hero, all of which tried to capitalize 
 on his fame. In most cases, these attempts proved unsuccessful, which has caused the Pac-Man license 
 to lose much of the popularity it accumulated in its early arcade days. The latest effort, Pac-Man: 
 Adventures in Time, is an attempt to bring Pac-Man back to his roots, but with surprisingly solid 
 3D graphics, good level design, and a few new gameplay features.   

  The most impressive aspect of Pac-Man: Adventures in Time is the graphics. The colorful 3D graphics 
 and the overhead perspective do a great job of giving Adventures in Time a brand-new appearance 
 while still retaining the same simple colors and shapes as in the original game. In the Ancient 
 Egypt levels, there are Pac-Man hieroglyphs on the walls that are clear and vibrantly colored; 
 even hieroglyphs that seem to have deteriorated over time or are covered in sand are clearly noticeable. 
 The game also effectively uses some full-motion video effects in some of the later stages, such 
 as the train stage, where the scenery rushes by as Pac-Man jumps from car to car while collecting 
 pellets. You'll also notice subtle lighting effects that highlight Pac-Man's robust shape, but 
 they're not quite as apparent in some stages as they are in others. Adventures in Time also manages 
 to retain a brisk frame rate even on a machine with the minimum system requirements.   

  Pac-Man's transition into a lush, fully 3D world introduces some new twists to the classic Pac-Man 
 gameplay. Instead of restricting a stage to one single flat maze, you can make Pac-Man run up walls, 
 slide down or climb up hills, and use elevators to reach different platforms. These new environmental 
 features are incorporated seamlessly into the traditional Pac-Man gameplay thanks to the game's 
 solid level design. For instance, obstacles are used in such a manner that they don't just block 
 your progress, but they are actually a well-integrated part of the level. One stage places you 
 in the middle of a cave that slopes down toward the middle where a sleeping dragon is located, 
 and every time the dragon takes a deep breath and exhales, it spews a fireball that travels down 
 a particular part of the maze. Another level takes place in the middle of a medieval jousting tournament 
 as two jousters travel back and forth across a particular section of the level. In the various 
 Egyptian levels, you'll see baskets that contain snakes that will lunge at you if you get too close. 
 There are even environmental objects within the levels that can aid you in your task, such as during 
 one of the Wild West levels that takes place in a saloon with a piano. You can actually run by 
 the piano to make it play, which causes the ghost monsters chasing after you to completely ignore 
 you as they start dancing uncontrollably. In addition, different types of terrain in each of the 
 levels can cause Pac-Man to slow down and speed up accordingly, which can make it challenging to 
 judge how close you are to one of the ghosts or an obstacle - especially in the later levels when 
 the ghosts speed up and the obstacles become more difficult to avoid.   

  Pac-Man has a number of new abilities to help him navigate the terrain and capture pellets. Now 
 you can make Pac-Man jump to avoid ghosts, boulders, or any other dangerous obstacles that might 
 be in your way. Unfortunately Pac-Man doesn't really get a chance to use his new abilities that 
 often because it can be very difficult to properly time a jump to avoid danger. Controlling Pac-Man 
 also becomes an issue in the later levels because Pac-Man moves in whatever direction you point 
 him in, and he doesn't stop moving in that direction until pointed otherwise, which makes the game's 
 control seem sluggish and unresponsive when you're trying to make sharp turns as a ghost chases 
 you.   

  The game offers three different multiplayer modes that are equally well-done twists on the classic 
 game. The best of these modes is ghost tag, where you must tag your opponents in order to change 
 back into Pac-Man form and capture enough pellets to beat out the other competitors. Unfortunately, 
 there is no online player-matching service included with the game, so finding an online multiplayer 
 game may be difficult, but Adventures in Time does have a hot-seat option for four players at one 
 computer, and you can also play against computer-controlled opponents.   

  Pac-Man: Adventures in Time attempts to take the classic Pac-Man formula and adapt it to a three-dimensional 
 world and succeeds at doing so while still retaining the classic sense of the original game. The 
 single-player levels, as well as the multiplayer modes and the minigames, all keep Adventures in 
 Time from becoming repetitive too quickly, though in essence it's still just a remake of the classic 
 Pac-Man. The occasionally sluggish control can be a little frustrating but not enough to take the 
 fun out of the game.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (4 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: liukang666
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 5, 2007 9:10 am PT
Review:  I love this game so much. It is very old school, and it goes back to the old school roots of nothing 
 more complicated then running mazes. As you can guess, the point is to go through time or whatever. 
 You have everything you could need: Western, Jurassic Park, Medevil ect to end in Sci-Fi land. 
 The stages are very very creative, too, which is what i like. You have the giant tree, volcano, 
 Cannibal village, a river with an alligator, a giant egyptian tomb, the list is giant. Though you 
 have innovations like riding in carts, activating gates, even playing the piano to distract western-themed 
 ghosts, it (luckily) sticks to the basic formula. It still has power pellets and fruit is what 
 i mean. Also, the aforementioned themed ghosts help make the game look good, which it does a good 
 job of. Overall, i would have to say this is my favorite pac man game ever made. That isn't saying 
 much, most of them suck, but still. If you can get your hands on it, get it. - - skalokos 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marvelrocks
Rating: 7.4
Date: May 10, 2007 4:13 pm PT
Review:  Pac-man, adventures in time is just plane fun. You start off in pacman&acute; s home and proffesor 
 giberish (a. k. a. proffoesor pac) tells you that a giant mullusk took over the artifact, a mysterious 
 pellet that has protected the world from evil for a thousand years, and broke it into four pieces, 
 scattering them across time. So prof. pac sends you in his new time machine to retrieve the pieces 
 of the artifact (see why pac-man games shouldn&acute; t have a storyline?) So there you go.
  Gameplay= Plain fun. You run around levels eating pellets. There&acute; s a new adition that lets 
 you jump over ghosts and obstacles. You can change the camera angle anytime you like. There&acute; s 
 power pellets that allow you to eat ghosts. One great adition is that every level has a new twist, 
 so the gameplay doesn't get repetitive. There's minigames, but those aren't that good. In conclusion, 
 great gameplay.
  Graphics=The graphics are pretty good. There's a nice amount of detail and overall the game looks 
 great.
  Sound=The game has poor sound, except for some catchy music tracks. There&acute; s the classic pac 
 man sounds, but not much else.
  Value= The overall story is a little short, but you'll want to keep returning to you're favourite 
 levels often.
  In conclusion, the games pretty good, but if you never liked pac-man, you'll skip this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: magnus4
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 27, 2006 5:55 am PT
Review:  If you enjoy Pac man games or are a Pac Man fan such as myself, you mostl likely own this game 
 or are contemplating getting it. While it is a fun game, it could be improved upon, but I wouldn't 
 toss it aside or pass up giving it a look or play first. 
  One thing I enjoyed about this game is the different types of "time" line places you get to explore, 
 that made the mazes interesting and a different take from the traditional, classic Pac Man style 
 mazes. 
  The mazes are pretty fun, 3d and explorable puzzles you'll enjoy playing as the yellow hero. 
 
  The graphics are a bit weaker than I expected, and are a bit choppy in some areas, or just plain 
 flat looking in a few others, which I didnt care for. Also, the sound can get a bit annoying or 
 repetitive at some points as well, leaving deffinate room for improvement, especially in the areas 
 where it gets too "child like" in it's aspect and too easy for some gamers. 
  The game offers a good amount of playing types, and a fair amount of mazes, which you can unlock 
 as you play through the single player story mode, and each world has a good amount of varied mazes 
 that go alog with that theme (though, granted some seem a bit too similar) .
  All in all, this game is some simple fun Pac Man fans should get a little smile out of and enjoy 
 plaing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MasterShake888
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 25, 2005 3:53 pm PT
Review:  This PC game has some suprisingly great 3D graphics thanks to Creatve Asylum. All the ghosts and 
 Pac-Man itself are not just flat characters in the 50's but they have updated their games and well, 
 it piques my interest. There are some cool minigames and new worlds to explore and traveling in 
 time could be so much fun. I like the way the mad mazed in a cubed form and a circular forms too. 
 Some of the timed levels you have to be fast and prepared until time runs out. The little green 
 ghost is easy to eat and some of the new features that they have in this game will make you stay 
 on this computer for many, many hours. I find it addictive! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
