-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Pacific Storm
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/pacificstorm/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Wide scope with lots of options.
 Good, basic RTS action with a strong historical flavor.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Scope is so wide that the game is unwieldy.
 Too much micromanagement in campaign play.
 Loads of bugs.
 Dated visuals and sound.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 16, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.4
Critic Score: 6.7, 8 Review (s)
User Score: 7.2, 179 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: cdv Software
Developer: Lesta Studio
Genre: Historic Real-Time...
Date:     Oct 2, 2006 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Too many problems with bugs and artificial intelligence sink this promising and ambitious RTS.

  One thing's for sure -- Pacific Storm is not for the faint of heart. Although Russian developer Lesta 
 Studio and its North American publishing partner CDV are billing the game as a real-time take on 
 the Pacific theater of World War II, it actually has a lot more in common with hardcore war sims 
 like Hearts of Iron than an RTS in the tradition of Command &amp; Conquer. But even though grognards 
 will love the tremendous scope of the game, too much unnecessary micromanagement, subpar artificial 
 intelligence, and a host of quirks and bugs sink this overly ambitious effort just before it reaches 
 port.  

          Being able to climb into the cockpit of a Japanese Zero is a nice frill, but a frill nonetheless. 
     

  As usual with such complex games, the biggest issue here is learning how to play. While Pacific 
 Storm includes a reasonable suite of training missions that go over most in-game situations, they 
 have all been done in a dry style where a succession of text boxes prompts you to hit buttons. 
 It's tough to learn anything in this fashion, especially in a complex game like this one. You really 
 need interactive help during the first stages of the campaigns, as well as a walk-through that 
 guides you through the initial economic setup and gets you started with the various tasks you'll 
 have to juggle throughout the game. Here, though, you're basically given a detailed explanation 
 of a shovel and pail and then plopped into a sandbox.  

  And boy, it's quite a sandbox. The two campaigns -- a free mode that balances US and Japanese resources, 
 and an historical one that attempts to present the balance of power as it actually was in 1940 
 (although it sure seems way off, with a crazy number of US and Japanese vessels in the Pacific 
 when the game gets going) -- play out in similar fashion to those in Hearts of Iron. You start off 
 on a global strategic map representing the Pacific Ocean from the Japanese-controlled Far East 
 to the American West Coast, and from there you must move fleets around like in a nautical Risk, 
 conquering zones by setting up bases. You have almost total control over your nation's war effort, 
 so you must manage resources like money, aluminum, iron, and oil, and deal with researching tech, 
 ordering up soldiers, ships, and planes, and, of course, sending fleets into battle.  

  Unfortunately, the grand scale of Pacific Storm is undercut with too much bookkeeping. While there 
 is certainly something majestic about overseeing the entire Pacific war effort of either the United 
 States or Japan, it's hard to feel like a great general when you're stuck shuffling soldiers, ammo, 
 and fuel on and off supply ships, and erecting base buildings like oil storage tanks and industrial 
 buildings to gather resources. While the game has automatic options to cover management tasks, 
 they don't work very well. Ammo often isn't loaded onto ships. Oil sometimes doesn't get moved 
 around properly. Transports frequently won't transfer goods between ports or will use a dozen or 
 more ships to move items that could have been packed into one or two. You can of course bypass 
 these quirks and do everything yourself through the fairly intuitive menu system, but the AI often 
 seems to override your decisions and order stuff that you don't want or need. Expect to spend more 
 time playing supply clerk than you do playing Admiral Halsey.  

          It might be a futile effort, but there's still something fun about blasting Japanese Zeros 
 from the decks of battleships at Pearl Harbor.     

  Other aspects of the game are unintelligible due to poor or nonexistent feedback, and bugs. Because 
 of the complexity of the game and the AI wonkiness, it's hard to tell which is a bug and which 
 is an unfathomable feature. Enemy bases sometimes can't be captured no matter how many units you 
 throw at them, even when they're virtually undefended. Ships en route to destinations can run smack 
 into islands and stop, which forces you to lead them by the hand (rudder?) to their destinations. 
 AI-controlled fighters will occasionally dive straight into the ground, and bombers plow right 
 into the targets they're supposed to be bombing. The Japanese AI usually begins campaigns aggressively, 
 capturing one zone of territory after another in the first days of games to kick off the war, but 
 then avoids major engagements by keeping fleets in ports until you attack them. And when enemies 
 do enter battle, they sometimes seem to be bolstered by an unending supply of aircraft, which keep 
 coming even though you've sunk their support ships to the bottom of the sea. The real-time combat 
 that ensues once you leave the tactical screen for an actual battle is more agreeable. Admittedly, 
 this is pretty stock-standard RTS gaming, but with a wide selection of historically accurate aircraft 
 carriers, battleships, submarines, fighters, and bombers instead of the more stereotypical soldiers 
 and tanks. It is also bolstered by a good selection of over a dozen one-off tactical battles representing 
 some of the most famous moments of WWII (Pearl Harbor, the aerial assassination of Yamamoto, a 
 fanciful atomic bomb run with Japanese jet fighters) , along with a few fascinating alt-history 
 scenarios.  

  And the RTS aspect of the game features the additional frill of being able to hop into the cockpits 
 of planes and man guns on destroyers and the like whenever you want some hands-on action. This 
 option doesn't add much to gameplay, though, as it's suicidal to take your eye off the big picture 
 for long when involved in the game's typically large-scale battles. You never gain anything from 
 doing so, either, aside from a few cheap "I'm shooting a gun in an RTS!" thrills (particularly 
 during the Pearl Harbor scenario, as it's deeply cool to man a gun atop the USS Colorado and blast 
 away at the waves of attacking Japanese Zeros and bombers) .  

  Action is also the primary focus of the multiplayer modes of play. You can go online and fight 
 single battles with up to seven opponents in battle planner, join up with a buddy for some cooperative 
 play, or get into the cockpit of a fighter in the air simulator. Or at least that's how the theory 
 goes, anyhow. We were never able to hook up with an online game, so either the game server is perpetually 
 down, or there just isn't anyone playing.  

          The visuals leave a lot to be desired.     

  Finally, Pacific Storm doesn't seem completely 
 finished. Random crashes are a serious problem, with the game dropping to the desktop on a fairly 
 regular basis. You never know when the game is going to act up, either. A particular function, 
 like hitting the "U" key to take control of a gun or to jump into a cockpit, will work perfectly 
 for hours, then suddenly will start causing incessant crashes. Both the graphics and sound are 
 in rough shape. Visuals feature vessels with few details and practically blank hulls, as if they're 
 still awaiting artists to drop in textures. The Pacific islands on which you build your bases are 
 piles of sand dotted by scattered buildings and clumps of palm trees. Despite all this, battles 
 cause graphical slowdown that tends to linger until you shut the game down and restart it. Audio 
 effects are tinny, the vocal clips are repetitive, and the soundtrack consists of a single synthed 
 tune so irritating that you'll shut it off in minutes.  

  Ambition only gets you so far. While Lesta Studio deserves credit for tackling such a large-scale 
 sim, all of the micromanagement tasks and bugs send Pacific Storm to the bottom of the sea. This 
 is one of those games that bites off more than it can chew.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (14 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: William6058
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 1, 2008 12:55 pm PT
Review:  Pros: Great graphics, HUGE scale of gameplay, stays quite accurate, and fun fun fun!!!
  
  Cons: Some bugs for some, lots of bugs for some, and no bugs for some.
  
  People like fun and 
 ambitiousness. Well if you were unlucky and bought a Pacific Storm pack with a lot of bugs, I don't 
 know about that but if you were lucky, you will have a time of your life! But I think that more 
 people will be lucky than unlucky.
  
  If you have a lot of bugs, if you get very angry, frustrated, maniacally uncontrolled, that means 
 you're impatient. Just at least play another game while patches come out. And sooner or later, 
 you'll see yourself having a great time, with a bug-free game.
  
  GameSpot, I can't understand all the other cons except for the bugs. I don't understand that "the 
 visuals leave much to be desired", lots of "frills" or "sink to the bottom of the the sea". The 
 extra features are added for more fun so it could be better. Who would want to just sit there, 
 moving around the camera, waiting for ships to fire that are 10 km away from each other when they'll 
 all miss? Just hop into a plane and drop a torpedo or two to keep the action going! Would you want 
 to just sit around and stare at the screen, or grab a joystick and do barrel rolls or shoot some 
 rounds at a dive bomber?
  
  So I think this game is great, and I recommend you to try it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Prometheus92
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 3, 2007 11:38 am PT
Review:  If any of you played Fighting Steel back when, you know it was a pretty fun, but alas it was plagued 
 by the same problems that plague Pacific Storm: crashes.
  
  I honestly would've rated this game a 9.5 or higher if there weren't so many crashes.
  
  Graphics: 
 9
  
  These graphics are awesome! I've never seen a surface combat game that rocks this much when it 
 comes to detail. There are a few bugs in the graphics that made me take off the 9.5, such as ships 
 passing through the one that sank in front of them and torpedoes launching without even facing 
 the direction of the enemy ship. You can zoom in and see an amazing amount of detail on the ships, 
 from crew, to gun, to deck, to plane sitting on the catapault waiting to be launched.
  
  The worst thing about the graphics is usually you can't turn it up to highest without your game 
 crashing out on you.
  
  Gameplay - 4.5
  
  Alright, I would've given gameplay a solid 9.5 if it weren't for the problems that persist in this 
 game - even after the patches.
  
  Gameplay is great, as you get to build a  variety of ships and 
 aircraft. You control a strategic map (either as US or Japan) and can take certain zones on the 
 map and set up bases to refuel/reload/build/etc. Once you get into a battle, you command your ships, 
 where you want to place them, what you want your aircraft to do, etc. One of the neatest things 
 about this game is the ability to control individual aircraft or anti-aircraft guns.
  
  So why prometheus92, if its so good, did you give it a 4.5? 
  
  I'll tell you why:
  
  I 
 have never seen a game in my life that crashes for no apparent reason. The patches fixed some bugs, 
 but it left out the major one: the strategic map crash. To date, I have never had a crash in tactical 
 mode, but in strategic map, I am lucky to go more than 10 minutes without crashing to desktop. 
 I have a pretty decent computer too, built for gaming, and it just keeps crashing. It'll be sudden 
 and out of nowhere. You'll tell a fleet to go to a base and as you watch it go across the ocean 
 to that base, it'll randomly crash to desktop. There are two types of bad games - ones that don't 
 play, and ones that have colors or noises so bright that it damages the senses or to your computer. 
 This game falls under the first category to some extent, because at times it is nearly unplayable.
 
  
  Sounds: 6
  
  Sounds are mainly repetitive, I think there are 4 types of songs, and whenver you order units around, 
 they say one of about 3 things. The ships make realistic noises when they fire and sink, as do 
 planes when they fire, bomb, crash, and get hit.
  
  Buy or rent? Hmph... this is a tough question. I'd say buy if you can find the game under $20 (as 
 of November, 2007) . I got my copy off ebay unopened for only $9.95. Final thoughts: Buka really 
 needs to get it together when it comes to bugs and crashes. They had a really great concept, and 
 it had potential, but it came up short because of the problems. I'm looking forward to Pacific 
 Storm: Allies, and I hope it doesn't have nearly as many issues with crashing and bugs.
  
  Thank you for reading my review ;D. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gfriedline
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 24, 2007 9:24 pm PT
Review:  I purchased the game for the price and the advertised features. The game delivers in many ways. 
 Resource control, construction, all the neccesities of a Turn-based. The Real time combat, and 
 what I would call hero mode going in the cockpit of bombers, figthers and other aircraft, or even 
 taking control of the various weapon systems on ships, was awesome. Made the monotony of chugging 
 convoys around the pacific worth the time. The resource management and unit management started 
 to become a little tedious. If your trying to take the entire map, the logistics become a nightmare, 
 units get lost in port, and keeping everything running smoothly between turns is time consuming. 
 The detail and micro-management of the resource and logistics control was a bonus, but again, very 
 tedious. Installing base upgrades and technology tree is good, even if the tech tree moves slowly.
 
  
  The biggest and, in my opinion, only problem with the game was spending 5-6 hours on a good campaign, 
 and suddenly getting a crash at a particular time. This seemed to happen over and over again, and 
 the same number of turns during the game, and even with a save, would still crash after a certain 
 number of turns. So even though I spent days on end playing and trying to win the war in the pacific, 
 I never did finish the campaign one time. With the issues of the bugs and crashes aside, this game 
 actually becomes quite addictive, and begins to become as long, and thought provoking as a chess 
 match with a skilled opponent. I would reccomend it, and writing this review makes me want to go 
 play it again, and put some big coastal guns at Panama. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mentat76
Rating: 5.5
Date: Aug 31, 2007 4:47 am PT
Review:  I had high hopes for this game really. There is no quality strategy in the market these days but 
 clones of other RTS' and this could be a masterpiece for sure. it has failed again. Why?
  
  first, developer tried to mix 3 genres together. They have divided their resources, time and efforts 
 in 3 ways. Ridiculous thing to do, especially the simulator model.. Why in the earth a strategy 
 player wants to jump in the seats of a fighter? If he would like to do so, why in earth he doesnt 
 buy a simulation instead a strategy game? A strategy game should offer you the commander's seat, 
 not a simulator pilot's seat. Now, the developer made a good decision by choosing a very well subject. 
 The pacific carrier operations are always exciting era, and not only units and battles, but also 
 production, shortly management of the whole nation level game playing is a fantastic idea. I have 
 to mention, this game is highly influenced by the PTO2.
  
  PTO2 was a complex game but it was just right in level, PS made it even higher in complexity which 
 hurts the gameplay. Too much micromanagement, especially logistics, bogs down the player with frustration. 
 I dont even mention how AI controlled logistics infuriates the player. The very first thing i was 
 bogged down was creating fleets. Ok it was realistic for sure but why do i need to create my fleets 
 in formation? I was limited by the templates and too see all the ships in fleet i need to collapse 
 all the tree one by one (even you have to sort empty formations as well-nothing but crowd in the 
 menu) . The count of ships/aircraft often is another pain in the rear. Frustrating in PS for sure, 
 PTO managed that quite successfully. Another thing i noticed in the first minute, to perform air 
 strikes, i have not spotted any entire air force option for sending all aircraft upon enemy, you 
 have to choose them one by one as formations and doing this again and again makes the thing not 
 fun but a job. It was like walking in a park in PTO.
  
  The thing that impresses me indeed was the idea to be able to watch the actual battle in the field, 
 you can watch air strikes on enemy realistically, which was way too simplistic and unsatisfactory 
 in PTO. Production queue and technology tree interface are well designed but lack of information. 
 (There is a short description but, what improves which vessels or, what will be available by then?-not 
 explained) Very well idea but poor implementation. Also building and improving base structures 
 is a nice idea however it is again over detailed. .
  
  I couldn't go on without mentioning of the details of battles here. Battles are... an eye candy 
 for a strategy player for sure, however they are unrealistic from head to toe. One single battle 
 of Guam f. i. takes hours to complete. I have never seen a successful aerial attack while i play. 
 First: Planes are way too slow , I often finish my job with BBs before they arrive.
  second: they draw circles around the ship while i patiently wait them to release their bombs but 
 most of them is wasted by AA by then.
  and third: they do this not in a formation style but in an individual style for to make enemy's 
 job easier and concentrate their fire better. This is the most annoying part of the game.
  And: Battles are not realistic because: Ships are added to gameplay by parties (There is a max. 
 number of unit limitation in the game) this nullifies your fleets full potential. (oh! one down, 
 lets call for another destroyer???)
  
  Soldiers are transported one by one, there are no regiments, platoons or whatever they call the 
 stack, and they have convoluted things more in transport menu, as you can choose to board soldiers 
 one by one according to their experience.. WTF? in PTO it was by regiment and their quantity was 
 displayed as percentage. Was easier to manage for sure.
  
  The feedback messages especially after battle reports are convoluted, Thanks to the top message 
 displaying, our forces have retreated , or we have crushed the enemy , otherwise player would have 
 hard time to understand what has happened, and how things went. from those chaotic lists. Oh, the 
 message log to the lower right of screen is a crap by the way. Useless, and hard to spot anything 
 over there. Also loading/unloading messages are not working whether the inform me tick box is checked.
 
  
  Also for those who remember PTO, there was monthly meetings by president (emperor for the japans) 
 foreign minister, treasury minister, chieff of staff and chief of navy (Which is you) The goals, 
 foreign acts, budget and materials distribution was discussed in those meetings in a card game 
 style which was a superb idea. Actually that was the best thing about PTO. The struggle was not 
 only to the enemy on battlegrounds, but also to your own cabinet who tried to suck majority of 
 the resources for their part. in PS, you have full control over each and everything, (and maybe 
 this is why it is overwhelming) and you dont have to persuade anyone for your decisions. So you 
 are the president and all of the ministers above, a carrier captain, a pilot and every entity in 
 the game the very idea which disturbs me. As a conclusion, over detailed game play and micromanagement, 
 makes things convoluted and makes the game clumsy and unwieldy. If they could have simplified things 
 more, it would be much better for sure, and hell, this is only a game for Christs sake! easy down 
 pls! i want to see battleships over the map, not hundreds of transports crowd!
  
  I hope they save us from all the mess about zillions of vessels, unrealistic battles and that transport 
 materials duty in the upcoming allies expansion! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pickledwood
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 3, 2007 2:22 am PT
Review:  I'm 22... I played that game when I was 9 or 10 yo and I fell in love with the carrier battle mode 
 on it. This title is a continuation of that love.
  
  The game is extremely broad. Some say to broad. I agree with them in some respects. The micro management 
 required to succesfully play the strategic game is emense.... so if you're not into that you'll 
 not be happy... thankfully... there are other options :) The Ministers make too many mistakes as 
 well (sending/ and recieving of materials is screwed up) ... but I still leave them on and pretend 
 that, in the real world... that's how it happens as well (I know cheap cop out) . The flight models 
 are simplistic at best.
  
  But at the heart of the game is a great RTS game that allows you to command hundreds of units in 
 historical or fictional combat. Anyone remember the 1946 expansion for Aces of the Pacific? This 
 game goes all the way to 1948! With all new technology like the early AAM's and glide bombs the 
 japanese and Americans were developing... I love it. Ever wanted to see if an American fleet could 
 storm Tokyo Bay?? You can in this game. I picked up this title for 29.99 at Wal-Mart. For that 
 Price you can't go Wrong.
  
  On another note. People are starting to mod it. And the expansion is coming out this quarter adding 
 many new features that will make the game like Battlestations Midway should have been! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: willclinton
Rating: 1.6
Date: Dec 6, 2006 9:16 pm PT
Review:  Developer obviously sent this one out the door to continue to fund their development of the next 
 game Pacific Storm Allies. They have come up with the novel idea of not patching the game. Instead 
 they come out with the next version which incorporates many things that should have been in the 
 first game. Even with a fast system Pacific Storm bogs down to single digit frames per second. 
 The enemy AI is non-existent... ships will literally huddle together when attacked. If you happen 
 to be one of the 50 million people who use a USB joystick the game crashes when your plane crashes, 
 every time. Things that should have been there that are not: There is no land combat, don't expect 
 any amphibious landings. You can not control ship's major weapons. Best you get is a 20mm anti-aircraft 
 gun. To top it off the developers are hard pressed to dedicate any time to patching this because 
 they are overloaded working on the sequel to this buggy package. Amazing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Damaclese76
Rating: 7.3
Date: Nov 16, 2006 11:22 am PT
Review:  Well at least they tried, most games comming out now are so shallow for depth. It has been years 
 since a real time strategy was just that strategy. Now you have to effectivly manage a large economic 
 scope as well as deal with political requests. Ship building is easy but the tech side of it draws 
 out too long. Combat is pretty strait forward and simple unfortunatlu you can only man the aa guns 
 on the ships. All in all it keeps you busy and trying to think ahead no some generals knock off 
 where you mas sproduce units and simply throw them at your enemy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: herodotus2006
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 6, 2007 9:44 am PT
Review:  The nay-sayers for this game/sim are probably not old enough to remember the glory days of naval 
 and aircraft simulator/games of the early nineties, but I'm not. Great Naval Battles , a series 
 that was loved by players, and undermined by critics, has finally reared its' head above the dust 
 and waters in this game. Specifically, GNB 2 which centered on the naval battles and activities 
 centred on Guadalcanal. GNB 3 expanded to include operations in and around Guadalcanal including 
 carriers. Sure, the ships were 2D digitized representations and you could only observe carrier 
 operations (black sprites buzzing around the 2D ship) but they were so involving that hours would 
 pass without notice. You became so involved in re-supplying the Marines and engaging Japanese supply 
 columns and fleets that the poor graphics went by unnoticed. Then came Microprose's 1942 and its' 
 sequel 1942: PAW which both immersed you in the same campaign (s) but with beautiful graphics (the 
 Battle of Savo Island at night with searchlights, tracer and firery explosions was a sight to behold) 
 that held the player hooked. There were downsides (taking over a gun-station to fire at enemy ships 
 was dodgy) but noone really complained. Dynamix had by then also entered the fray with Aces of 
 the Pacific and the world was yours. So, to PS . For me it has brought back those days of the GNB 
 series and 1942 . AOP would be better left in comparison with Pacific Fighters so I'll leave that 
 there. What PS has done is re-kindle the fires of the previously mentioned games, expanded the 
 AO to include the whole Pacific War and then thrown in a whopping dollup of Hearts of Iron . Not 
 content, they've added the arcade side to things by bringing in elements of Blazing Angels . And 
 they've done incredibly well. It was an ambitious notion to begin with and, according to most critics 
 failed by doing so, but taken in context of past games it comes out gleaming. If you think the 
 AI is dumb and useless, try 1942 where your US and Australian ships zigged and zagged all over 
 the place seemingly oblivious the pounding they were getting. Thing is, that's what HAPPENED. Read 
 any book on Iron Bottom Sound (the straits of Guadalcanal) and you'll be amazed at the naval carnage 
 that occurred there. The Marianas Turkey Shoot, Okinawa, Sunda Straight... the list goes on. At 
 the heart of the game (no pun intended) is Hearts of Iron and Axis and Allies to busy the player 
 with the sheer magnitude of running this AO. It's deeply involving and not meant for a quick-fix 
 session. They've included the Tactical engagements for that, and the Arcade elements are just a 
 delicious cream on top. Sure it has bugs. All games do. Look at Joint Task Force which requires 
 a whopping 200MB patch to make it playable from the get-go. Modders are already hard at work on 
 this title and the Expansion Pack PS: Allies is said to fill in the gaps that critics have pointed 
 out. The graphics are absolutely acceptable for a title of this magnitude, and don't even pretend 
 to be Oleg Maddox. The intensity of a firefight between 2 opposing fleets is well portrayed and 
 deeply engaging (pun intended) . This is a game that will take effort and persistence to fully understand 
 and implement. With the expansion coming to fill in the blanks , I have high hopes for this title. 
 And being half the price of most recent releases, I'd say you're getting a bargain. Just beware, 
 this is not Blazing Angels , so if you are looking for an easier game to master and play quickly 
 look elsewhere. I thought the many hours I spent with the GNB series were just fond memories (not 
 for my computer- widow-wife , though) . Now there is a new kid on the block. And this one is loaded 
 for bear! REVIEW EDIT 7th March '07: This being the review of the Australian release, it has come 
 to my attention, following months of misleading promises, that there will be NO patch1.3 for the 
 Aust. version. There is simply no excuse for this blatant disrespect for the Publisher's Australian 
 buyers. I will leave the score as is, but give the product an overall rating of 5/10 based on the 
 product including an inexcusable lack of customer support. 'nuff said! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kailii
Rating: 2.6
Date: Nov 5, 2006 3:38 pm PT
Review:  Pacific Storm is like one of those russian dolls sticking into each other.
  In game terms, the more time you spend with it, the less you can get out of it until only one very 
 small doll remains.
  The pun in intended as russian developer Buka is responsible for one of the worst - read unbalanced, 
 buggy and unoptimized - strategic games i ever had to play.
  
  Should some oldtimers remember Gary Grigsby&amp;#8217; s Pacific War, you'll know what to expect: 
 World War II in the Pacific with all its enormous scale and ranges, a logistical nightmare.
  And like its spiritual precursor, Pacific Storm is quite infested with bugs.
  Some examples are 
 in order:
  
  On the strategic level, the computer assistance for logistical operations - read convoys - is barely 
 usable. More often then not, your bases will not be supplied.
  Bad enough when you can't get your invasion fleet back from its target to home waters because of 
 empty oil tanks for over a year, but when your fighters take off without ammunition to fight the 
 enemy, you know the fun is over for sure.
  No, i didn't forget to push the Arm planes button.
  
  On the tactical level, submarines won 
 the war.
  Torpedoes often come in the home-in-on-target variant (there is a research path to actually make 
 them homing torpedoes, but not in 1941. No way!) ,
  always hit their target no matter the impact angle, and submarines are invincible even on the surface 
 - my guess is that destroyer captains know that subs can dive, so they close their eyes knowing 
 they cannot be seen or even fired upon.
  
  On the simulator level, i keep asking myself what made me start it.
  Steering a single plane 
 surely is a nice touch, but you lose any ability to command the rest of your forces. OK, i barely 
 managed to not complain about the flight models since no one is left playing combat flight simulators 
 anyway, but where is the catch?
  
  Oh boy, i found it!
  Remember those fighters without ammunition earlier?
  I grabbed one in good hope of pulling some 
 kamikaze stunt on that enemy carrier. Well, AA fire downed me in one hit. What fun!
  
  Resume:
  Pacific Storms basic game design would be a winner if it was not plagued by too many 
 bugs und unbalance issues making it unplayable.
  Unfortunately the chances for a life saving patch are next to zero because the game has been out 
 for months already (although not in the US) .
  
  Advice:
  Steer clear of this game. Should be avoided like peperoni donughnut sauce. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: leisears
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 30, 2006 8:05 pm PT
Review:  I've been playing this game for two weeks, the idea and scope of this game are super, but the final 
 product is really not able to turn the idea into an adequate implementation.
  
  First, the AI of the strategic mode is very stupid, this is the biggest weakness of this game that 
 I have caught! The Jap will asign a destroyer battalion to fight with your air carrier division 
 multiple times that is really stupid that a real human being would never perform such kind of 'strategy'.
 
  
  Second, Most of the time you attack a Jap base, you will only have chance to kill tons of transportation 
 ships and tankers but no combat vessals. It seems that the AI have no intellegence to protect any 
 base it has occupied.
  
  Third, the AI of the real time tatcial mode is also stupid enough. As a human being player you 
 will notice that tatical bombers are no as effective as torpedo bombers, however, the AI air carrers 
 will send useless tatical bombers to the hell before they will send out the torpedo bombers. When 
 it try to send the torpedo bombers, it is often the time that it has been sunk by the human player.
 
  
  Fourth, the auto resource managemant feature of the game is more stupid than a man who has mental 
 problem. It sends oil and amor to bases that has no ships and that is not in a critical stratetic 
 point other than those more important. If you don't turn on the auto management feature, I would 
 say that you will have to use more time than the real historical war that has happend and finished. 
 You may need probably 2 years to finish a campain with 12 hours hard working every day on it.
 
  
  If the AI is so stupid, you then can only enjoy the game online playing agianst other human being. 
 Then I will have a question. What's the value of this game? what distinguishes it from other games 
 that have small scale.
  
  I was totally disappointed! Great idea and scpoe but very poor implementation. Countless bugs is 
 not the weakness of this game because it can be fixed by patches. The dead end of this game is 
 it's stupid AI. That is the final conclusion I can give. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: roeboat72
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 13, 2006 1:17 pm PT
Review:  It is a very good simulation. It's main feature is in its realism. The length of time to build 
 ships, planes, and weapons takes many days inside the game. Just to build a battleship in the game 
 without using time warp will take over 300 minutes (Seconds = Minutes in the game, so a battleship 
 in the game takes over 300 days) . Carriers depending on the class and size will take more or less 
 time than that. Planes are quick to build but some are land based only. And to put planes on a 
 carrier its a good idea to put them into formations.
  
  Formations in the game are basically easy ways to group units. This makes it nice to keep organized, 
 the problem is that the formations are pre-built, so you can only customise after you build them. 
 Although there are different levels so you can have a battalion of battleships (two battleships 
 with little escort) , or go up to fleet size, requiring between 20-30 ships depending on the formation. 
 One nice feature is that in the fleet size formations automatically get tankers and transports, 
 allowing your ships to go much father because the can be refueled on their journey and rearmed.
 
  
  Bases serve as home for your ships. They can keep supplies and oil, and also serve as troop stations 
 for moving personel around your nation. They can be upgraded with airports, flak guns, coastal 
 artillery, and others that in the end will help influence a battle if you are attacked. Some defences 
 require certain supplies to build them whereas other can just be built. A twist on the idea of 
 resources is that you must build fleets of convoys to keep your bases replenished with oil, men, 
 and other supplies. If you don't give them oil, you ships cannot refuel and will not get far from 
 their port. The same goes for ammo. Convoys are formations you can build but are not offensive. 
 They are escorted by destroyers but are not much against enemy forces.
  
  The tatical part of the game is what makes it much more unique tham most RTS games. It not only 
 allows you to see and order your ships around, but allows you to take control of your own aircraft, 
 and fly them around to shoot down enemy planes or sink enemy ships. And to top it off, it allows 
 you limited control of your ships anti-aircraft defences. Although it would have also been cool 
 if they gave you controll of the main guns of your ships (Which they don't) . There are also sea 
 planes that can take off from you battleships and cruisers that have depth charges for enemy submarines.
 
  
  Overall a great simulation best suited for those who want relativly realistic battles. Its only 
 real shortcomings are no control of larger guns in tatical mode and a tough but realistic campaign 
 (I have yet to win a war, he, he) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FFDmh2223
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 8, 2006 6:52 pm PT
Review:  Highly recommend. They should not stopped at 1948. They should have let you go through entire 20th 
 century. Cold war post cold war to today. That would have been awesome. 2 games in one very cool. 
 strategy and first person
  
  if your computer sucks don't buy the game it won't run well on low end computers.. 3D battles are 
 sweet but my computer struggles to keep things running smooth. My compter is up to date and on 
 the higher end. This game really is revolutionary. very very good.
  
  scale is perfect, most realitic war game I have every played. puts games like command and conquer 
 to shame. They have no concept of scale. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: magogian
Rating: 7.2
Date: Oct 8, 2006 7:48 pm PT
Review:  The down and dirty.
  
  Great game concept. You get to control the strategic aspects of the War in the Pacific with the 
 ability to jump into a tactical battle and control the action yourself. Its a lot of fun to build 
 a fleet, outfitting and upgrading ships and planes, then send them into action against the enemy 
 - controlling what they target, tactics, etc...
  
  Implementation is a mixed bag. There are numerous bugs with this game. Some that make large parts 
 of the tech tree largely worthless. It seems as if the game wasn't tested all the way through a 
 complete game. And many people report frequent CTDs. I personally get them off and on.
  
  The graphics are mixed as well. This game won't win any awards, but the planes are rendered fairly 
 well and the ships look pretty good. However, some things, like the islands, towns, and buildings 
 look terrible. Sound is okay. Some nice explosion sounds and guns firing. I personally find the 
 main theme song really annoying, but plenty of other people like it.
  
  As it stands, you can get the game for $30 at Walmart and maybe some other places. For $30, its 
 worth picking up. However, I am assuming that the bugs and CTDs will get fixed when I make this 
 recommendation. There is an expansion coming on in January that is supposed to add a lot of features 
 that will really enhance this game. Assuming the expansion is $20, then you come to $50 for what 
 should be a good game overall. In the end, this game isn't for everyone. It could be a breakaway 
 hit if they actually fix the glaring problems and spend time developing the game more. That said, 
 if you are anytime of war sim buff this game is a fun and entertaining new take. It was a definitely 
 an ambitious project and I give the developers a lot of credit for it. I may update this review 
 as a new patch appears or as I learn the game better.
  
  EDIT: More problems with the end game content. Seems the developers decided not to implement several 
 things, like allowing you to use ballistic missiles. This is very strange because you can reseach 
 the missiles and build them, but you can't just fire them. Shouldn't have to wait for another expansion 
 just for a proper implementations of things already more or less in the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gijas
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 29, 2006 10:09 pm PT
Review:  PS is a tactical RTS/FPS set in the pacific during WWII which most of you all know. The game's 
 core is a campaign either free campaign meaning you start with the same technologies and units 
 as your enemy and the historical campaign that lets you play as history happened. Example: In HC 
 you start out with what historical units and tech. that was avaliable to that nation before the 
 accual war started. This of course is more challenging if your playing the US instead of Japan. 
 With that said I liked the free campaign more due to things being even between you and your enemy 
 and consider it more as a sandbox mode. You can fight the war anyway you want and don't have to 
 worry about pre-determined events that historicaly happen such as Midway in (June 42) .
  
  There are also single missions or battles if you will that you can play if you don't want to get 
 bogged down in a time-consuming campaign game but like I said the campaign is what this game is 
 all about. It reminds me more of Rome: TW type gp than anything I can think of which I adore.
 
  
  The graphics are sub-par at best and not very detailed overall even on the highest setting as you 
 would come to expect but there are several settings to tailor the ghx to your liking. Water looks 
 great if you have reflections on and ships look authenic enough if you have details to max. Land 
 is where it hurts but that I can forgive because land plays a minimal role in a navel war game.
 
  
  Interface is detailed beyond anything I've seen in this genre beside the TW series but it comes 
 with a high learning curve also. Read the manual in the games directory and forget about the game 
 book that shipped with PS unless you want to learn about different game units or how to go online 
 but this is all in the game's manual anyways.
  
  Many will find this game somewhat boring because of the slow gp (although you can set the game 
 speed to high to move thing along) and lack of action/rag-doll physics most games of this type 
 are known for but if your interested in the tactical aspect of war along with RT battles or Auto-Solve 
 then PS will certainly please you. It will take some reading and time to get use to the game's 
 interface but if you learn how to play it then you most likely will enjoy it more then just jumping 
 in and getting pounded by the enemy. Overall, PS is worth the $30 that I paid for it at Walmart 
 . Give the demo a try first if you haven't played it before and see if it's the kind of game your 
 interested in but keep in mind the demo is only the bare bones of this meaty tactical WWII war 
 game. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
