-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Pacific Fighters
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sim/pacificfighters/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 29, 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.3
Critic Score: 7.8, 20 Review (s)
User Score: 8.5, 451 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ubisoft
Developer: 1C
Genre: WWII Flight Sim
Date:     Oct 26, 2004
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
This is the best way to get your Pacific theater air combat fix, but it unfortunately marks the 
 low point in the series. 

  The Pacific theater of operations in WWII was dominated by aircraft, from the opening air strikes 
 at Pearl Harbor to the closing nuclear bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki. Pacific Fighters uses 
 the acclaimed IL-2 Sturmovik engine to simulate this epic conflict, but unfortunately it turns 
 out to be the biggest letdown of the series.  

          Carrier ops add a breath of fresh air to the series.     

  There are more than 60 flyable 
 planes in this package, although most of those are variants of about 20 different airframes. There 
 are a few dozen nonflyable aircraft you'll encounter in missions as well, and because of the setting, 
 most of these planes are instantly recognizable to students of WWII. Finally, you can slip into 
 the cockpits of F4U Corsairs, F6F Hellcats, and F4 Wildcats, along with planes that were included 
 in previous versions of the sim, like P-38s, P-40s, P-39s, and P-51s. A-20 and B-25 bombers, along 
 with SBD Dauntless dive-bombers, round out the American stable of flyable aircraft, meaning it 
 isn't possible to fly torpedo bombers like the TBF/TBM Avenger or TBD Devastator. Other Allied 
 planes you'll be able to fly include British variants of the Corsair, the twin-engine Beaufighter, 
 the Hurricane, the Seafire, and the Spitfire.  

  On the Japanese side, great fighters like the A6M Zero-Sen (Zeke) , Ki-43 Hayabusa (Oscar) , Ki-61 
 Hien (Tony) , and Ki-84 Hayate (Frank) are included, but other famous fighters like the Ki-27 Type 
 97 (Nate) , twin-engine Ki-45 Toryu (Nick) , and N1K1 Shiden (George) are not flyable. The only other 
 flyable Japanese plane is the D3A1 Type 99 (Val) dive-bomber, so there's no way to fly torpedo 
 bombers like the B5N Type 97 (Kate) or B6N Tenzan (Jill) , or other dive-bombers like the D4Y2 Suisei 
 (Judy) , and the most famous Japanese bomber, the G4M Type 1 (Betty) , won't be available either. 
 The developers have promised that several additional flyable planes will be introduced in a patch, 
 as the cockpits were finished when the game shipped and wouldn't fit on the two CDs included in 
 this package. The add-on was not available in time for review, and a third CD should have been 
 included if those assets were truly ready when the game went gold.  

  Newcomers to the series can install the game in stand-alone mode, but it also works as an add-on 
 for those with both IL-2: Forgotten Battles and the Aces Expansion Pack installed. The latter option 
 is the best, as it lets players mix and match planes from all theaters. Players also should know 
 that opting for the stand-alone installation only lets them play in online multiplayer mode with 
 other people who are also using the stand-alone installation option (they can't play online with 
 those who installed this as an add-on) .  

  No Pacific air war game would be complete without aircraft carriers, and Pacific Fighters shines 
 in this regard. Several types of carriers from the period are re-created in exquisite detail, and 
 players participating in naval campaigns soon discover that taking off and landing on these behemoths 
 is frequently more difficult than taking on the enemy. Crowded decks during takeoffs leave absolutely 
 no margin for error, especially considering how quickly planes must get up to speed to have any 
 chance of getting airborne before running out of deck.  

  Taking off is a breeze compared to landing, which requires accomplishing several piloting feats 
 that contradict one another. For example, using full flaps keeps your descent angle steep enough 
 that you can easily keep the carrier deck in sight during the landing approach, but that steep 
 angle increases the chance that the plane will bounce during the landing, eliminating any hope 
 of the tailhook catching one of the arresting wires strung across the deck. The alternative is 
 to come in with less flaps at a shallower angle, but that requires maintaining a faster speed, 
 which seriously cuts down on reaction times. It also increases the likelihood that you'll end up 
 making a two-point landing on the front wheels, which is a no-no because the tailhook will be too 
 far off the deck to catch a wire. Bad weather makes landing even dicier, as the carrier pitches 
 and rolls in the high seas. However, it's even worse if the carrier is stationary, because your 
 relative landing speed is much higher than usual.  

          Cockpits are highly detailed and look almost photo-realistic at high resolution.     

 
  Some of the planes have such dingy canopies that landing in virtual cockpit mode is nearly impossible 
 (although it's possible to raise the virtual seat for a better view) , but for those willing to 
 switch to no-cockpit mode, the designers have integrated a crutch that immensely helps during carrier 
 landings. A small icon appears in the middle of the heads-up display that tells players exactly 
 where their plane will end up if it stays on its current path at its current speed. Just line up 
 the icon with the wire you want to catch, adjust the pitch and throttle to keep it in place, and 
 landings become much less difficult. You still need to keep a close eye on your speed and descent 
 rate to avoid bouncing or overshooting the target at the last second, but it's a great aid.    
  

  The IL-2 series is known for its terrific flight models, and although the majority of the planes 
 included in this package are a blast to fly and exhibit most of their historic strengths and weaknesses, 
 there are some serious problems. Most of the new planes are practically impossible to stall when 
 they are flown at full throttle, even if the stick is jerked all the way back or to the sides. 
 Quick movements like that were enough to induce stalls in previous entries in this series, and 
 players had to really work the stick to turn or loop efficiently without stalling in the process. 
 All of the American naval fighters included in this package can loop indefinitely and turn indefinitely 
 with full stick deflection throughout the entire maneuver. Some of the Japanese planes like the 
 Val and Oscar also exhibit this behavior, as do the heavier American bombers like the A-20 and 
 B-25. Some of these planes, early Corsairs in particular, were notorious for their tricky handling, 
 but in this sim it is possible to yank the stick in any direction until it stops, and you can maintain 
 impossibly long turns and loops without bleeding off a lot of speed, all without worrying about 
 stalling. This may be intentional, or it may be the by-product of having to tweak many of these 
 planes to have terrific low-speed behavior for carrier landings, but it just doesn't feel like 
 the IL-2 of the past.  

          The special effects and water are very realistic, but only if you have some serious hardware. 
     

  At least the combat is entertaining. The dogfighting artificial intelligence is as good as ever, 
 and participating in a carrier attack is about as tense as simming gets. Dauntless dive-bombers 
 scream down on the target as AI-controlled Avenger pilots lose torpedoes and fighters swarm around 
 looking for prey or protecting their charges. Airfields tend to be littered with targets, including 
 many seaplanes moored at nearby docks (if the base is next to a coastline) and -- if you're lucky -- rows 
 of hapless fighters trying to struggle their way into the sky to meet your attack.  

  Graphically, this game is unmatched by any air combat simulation currently on the market, including 
 previous entries in the IL-2 series. For the first time, vast expanses of ocean are actually interesting 
 to look at, because with the water effects maxed out, the sun glints realistically off of waves 
 that are generated based on the current weather conditions. Things become even more beautiful once 
 you get to an island, with those waves lapping at the shoreline while the water realistically changes 
 color as the seabed becomes shallower.  

  Aircraft models, skins, and especially cockpits are rendered in excruciating detail that holds 
 up even at the highest resolutions, and the many ship models also look fantastic. With enough computing 
 horsepower it is even possible to turn on 3D sailors that man the guns on the ships, although LSOs 
 (Landing Signal Officers) sadly are not implemented. In combat, with the special effects turned 
 up all the way, everything from the tiniest bullet kicking up a rooster tail to the biggest bomb 
 shredding a destroyer looks breathtaking.  

  The audio hasn't improved much relative to previous versions, with thunderous gunfire offset by 
 the relatively anemic engine noises. Radio chatter changes depending on the country you fly for, 
 and in a realistic touch, some of the early-war Japanese planes don't have radios (historically 
 they were ripped out to decrease weight and extend the ranges of the aircraft, and so the pilots 
 communicated using hand signals) .  

  Mountainous island terrain is great to look at and even cooler as a setting for a dogfight, but 
 it poses serious problems for the AI pilots. We started a Beaufighter campaign in New Guinea and 
 couldn't even make it past the first mission because AI-controlled planes continuously slammed 
 into the Owen Stanley Range instead of flying over it. The same thing happened in a Zero campaign 
 during a low-level fighter sweep -- the AI simply acted like some small hills didn't exist and smashed 
 into the side of them in a single-file Kamikaze attack.  

          The two medium bombers that are flyable let players man the gunner positions.     

 
  While many of the dynamic campaign missions we've flown were action-packed, several resulted in 
 no contact with the enemy whatsoever. Even on missions filled with enemies, getting to the fight 
 can take several minutes whether time compression is used or not. This may be realistic, but it 
 makes for boring gameplay and removes much of the value from the dynamic campaigns. Getting the 
 most out of this sim means rolling up your sleeves and creating missions or campaigns using the 
 included editor or just waiting for other fans to do the work for you. There is a lot of community 
 support for this game already, so flying online also keeps things exciting.  

  This is a product that evidently shipped too soon and it badly needs a patch, although it is impossible 
 to know if a mere update can fix all of the issues with the flight models, the dynamic campaign, 
 and the suicidal AI. Until then, this is still the best way to get your PTO air combat fix, but 
 it unfortunately marks the low point in an otherwise excellent series.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (24 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Fighterpiliot
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 8, 2009 11:37 am PT
Review:  Pacific Fighters captured my attention from the start. The moment I started playing I realized 
 that this was no ordinary flight simulation. Even though the missions take a long time I right 
 away mad my own. Believe me it's well worth the effort. You are pushed right into the "hot zone" 
 as you duke it out with enemy zeros and a whole host of enemy fighters. But not to fear the planes 
 you can fly are just as good, or better. And something that's more amazing, you don't have to unlock 
 planes! There are no bugs I know of. The only small disappointment is that not all planes are flyable. 
 My favorite feature is that you can put nose art on your plane. (In the game there is a slight 
 typo and nose art is shown as Noseart)
  Unlike Blazing Angels: Secret Missions of WW2 the controls are very well done. The graphics are 
 very good. Let me correct that ULTRA good. Even if you have the highest expectations you won't 
 be let down. As for naval battles you just have to go to the full mission builder and put enemy 
 ships next to each other. They DO blow each other out of the water. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Prophet1980
Rating: 5.3
Date: Apr 22, 2007 7:41 am PT
Review:  This game could have been so much more.
  
  My main gripe is the lack of aircraft in the air at one time. This is a follow on from IL2 which 
 was genrally frantic and huge in scale with some intense and big dogfights. So why the heck is 
 it that i take off with 5 other aircraft and prehaps an escort of 4-6 zeros and im heading towards 
 midway only to be confronted by 6 enemy wildcats. Thats it. Thats as big as the air war in japan 
 gets folks. The naval fleets are tiny and usually have like 3 aircraft carriers and maybe 2 destroyers. 
 What im trying to say is basically the battles are really small yet the japanease theatre was full 
 of huge naval/air battles. Where are they? Did they save it for the last mission of the campaigns? 
 I dont think i will get that far.
  
  Ive flown 10 missions as a IJN bomber pilot and its boring as hell. You fly for 5-10 minutes with 
 the speed at x8 before you reach a target or an enemy plane. Ok so it might be realistic but its 
 just boring. Im comparing this game to IL2 FB. Its just no where near as well put together or engaging. 
 The dynamic campaign is boring.
  
  Realism is great, graphics are great. Its IL2 in the pacific. What more could you want? Well i 
 was hoping for bigger battles. I just cant get into this game at all. Ive tried. Ive gone back 
 to FB and its just so much more fun. Huge ariel dogfights, big bombing raids.
  
  This game is worth picking up as an expansion pack to allow you to fly in the pacific and make 
 your own battle but the campaigns themselves are boring and lack any grand feel of being in an 
 air war.
  
  This game could have been huge. It isnt. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Oche
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 13, 2007 9:09 am PT
Review:  When Microsoft Combat Flight Simulator 2 came out i was relieved to see that i didn't needed to 
 play the old Aces of the pacific . Flight model and combat was ok. In Pacific Fighters which uses 
 the IL2 engine, the flight model, damage, combat feels very real. In order to grasp the game's 
 essence you need to see it as a Simulator or else you are gonna be highly dissapointed. Besides 
 being far superior to CFS2 in comparison and having all the playable aircraft of CFS2, PF adds 
 not only the option of choosing dynamic campaigns for the Allied countries of US, Britain, Australian, 
 New Zealand and Netherlands and Axis Side: Japan, but also the chance of letting Bomber enthusiasts 
 embark themselves in a Bomber Pilot campaign for aircraft such as the US SBD-3 Dauntless Dive Bomber 
 and B-25 Mitchell and the japanese G4M betty and D3VAL Dive Bomber, just like IL-2 Aces Expansion 
 pack adds the famous German level bomber Heinkel 111 to the Axis side. Lot of attention to detail 
 has been put on cockpits, instruments, damage, carrier landings and Artificial intelligence.
  
  PROS:
  
  - Lots of aircraft to fly and test.
  - Very Good dynamic campaigns: Strike, 
 escort, Close support, intercept, patrol, rescue, etc.
  - Armament is very good.
  - Customizable difficulty settings.
  - Overall simulation is superb.
  - Cockpit detail is very 
 good.
  - Fighter and Bomber campaign for both Allied and Axis sides.
  - Mission editor included.
  - Patches which address many issues both fixing and improving the 
 game.
  - Both Land and Carrier borne aircraft campaigns.
  - You can save and inflight movie of your flight and replay it later.
  - B-25 Mitchell and G4M 
 Betty fully playable and depicted along with Pilot, gunner and bombardier positions with standard 
 operational working Bombsight controls from bombardier position. If any minimal gripes that i have 
 about the game are these:
  
  - Not enough historical single missions for the wide variety of playable aircraft.
  - Not enough 
 maps for Quick Missions.
  - Key Pacific Operations war theaters are missing.
  - Not any other medium or heavy bomber playable such as the B-26, B-24 and B-29's. (Would this 
 be too much to ask??)
  - No TBF-Avengers and Kate level bombers playable.
  - Only one campaign for the B-25 and P-40, etc.
  
  Since no other simulations have ever included 
 medium bombers such as the B-25s, G-4M bettys and Heinkell 111 in my opinion there is enough reason 
 to support both Pacific Fighters and the IL2 series for introducing new aircraft to combat flight 
 simulator games. If it wasn't for these games we would sit and wait a long time to ever see a worthy 
 WW2 Combat Flight Simulator. One thing's for sure this one stays on top of my selection of Flight 
 Sims for a long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LTZH
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 29, 2006 11:36 am PT
Review:  The best thing about the IL2 engine is the airtoair combat, its the most realistic you can buy. 
 And Pacific Fighters does a good job of the pacific theatre. Ever wanted to take on 50 zeroes at 
 pearl harbor? or even bomb the crap out of pearl harbor? now you can. This game also includes lots 
 of campaignes... even an ausrelian airforce campaign.
  
  pros:
  exceptional air-to-air.
  realistic physics.
  over 100 campaigns with atleast 50 hours of gameplay 
 for a sim fan. if not 200 hours or more.
  the graphics are superb for a 2004 game.
  
  cons:
  some little things not worth mentioning.
  you cant fly the B-29 or any other large bomber.
 
  no B-29 campaign.
  
  its a great game, buy it if you like WW2 sims. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Manbot_AMP
Rating: 7.7
Date: Sep 4, 2006 1:16 am PT
Review:  PF or Pacific fighters is a game which can be loved or hated; a game where the dynamic campaign 
 takes you in world war 2 and makes you feel part of it, a game with amaizing plains, good plain 
 graphic and realistic carrier landing. A game with intens battels and dreded weather, loved bombing 
 runes, and sad deaths.
  
  the campaing game is amazing, acordenly to your mission success, you may change the war. the plain 
 graphic are very good, with every hit having its own hole and with the clear plain schemes. however 
 dispite these amazing features PF has few downsides. First of all the mission can become confusing, 
 if played at 100% realism. players might find themself lost in the glamorous map. plains have also 
 a realistic stearing, this may be a good feature, however it usually means that the player finds 
 himself pulling himself and his plain out of stall.
  
  mission time is also quiet a factor, players will sometimes need to fly for long amont of times, 
 even with the time accelerizer it may prove to be a 5-10 minute flight.
  
  Pacific Fighters is a game which all combat simulator lovers must have, it depicts air war at its 
 greatest peak 
::::::

::::::
UserName: usmc123456
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 18, 2006 3:51 pm PT
Review:  
  Pacific Fighters is a combat flight sim based in the Pacific. The games graphic arn't stelllar 
 but they get this game by. In the game you can do a variety of things like, bomb a Japanese Airfield 
 or shoot down a bunch of Japanese fighters and bombers. This game is much like Microsoft Combat 
 Flight sim, you can give your plane noseart choose your squadron, choose a branch and choose whether 
 you want to be a bomber or a fighter. The gameplay is nice like the bombing and dogfights, the 
 AI is fairly smart but arn't hard to shootdown. The sound is nice but not fantastic. The online 
 is o. k but not many people are online. Thsi game fails to push boundaries. 7.6 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sergiosissylala
Rating: 7
Date: May 4, 2006 10:15 am PT
Review:  I would say this game is really interesting. I guess I am not the realistic flight sim kinda person 
 but I still liked it. It took me like 2 days to figure out how to get off the ground and/or aircraft 
 carrier. I havd to ask my dad (a pilot) how to do it in real life and then find the according buttons, 
 so you could say it was pretty realistic. Dogfighting is fun and you can speed and slow time. It 
 makes for an interesting dogfight when you make the clock go 8 times faster than normal. When you 
 slow it down it jus becomes really easy. I spent $20.00 on this game and it was an ok value. I 
 find sometimes its a fun game if you just want to fly because the campaigns and missions get a 
 little bit confusing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: herodotus2006
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 22, 2007 7:40 am PT
Review:  Dynamix started it all with Aces of the Pacific + add-on. The gameplay was fast and furious. The 
 choice of aircraft.... well, choice! When you flew CAP over the carrier group and were sent to intercept 
 a Japanese strike group it was one helluva scrap. Planes everywhere. Tracer everywhere. AAA... get 
 the point? Bringing that Avenger or Judy down to wave-top level (100 ft) facing AAA and letting 
 that torpedo drop at a perfect angle were much practiced arts. Knowing your work paid off when 
 the water column rose from the ship was pure joy (unless your tail section had been shot away) . 
 Microprose upped the ante with 1942: Pacific Air War . The graphics were beautiful, the gameplay 
 endlessly engaging (except the ground attack missions... yawn!) . You had to note down the expected 
 position of your carrier on return, just in case you were alone. There was no inflight map or auto 
 pilot. It happened to me, and I had to fly by dead reckoning, my Dauntless over endless Pacific 
 blue watching the fuel guage plummet with no ship in sight. Then a sparkle, a shadow, a ship. I 
 ran out of fuel just as I snagged the 3rd wire on landing. That was 12 years ago, and I still remember 
 the thrill. Now Maddox, with the unbeatable IL2 series goes East. I couldn't wait. I wish I had 
 of. PF isn't a bad game, but with the pedigree it had and the forebears listed above, there was 
 so much it could have done. The planes are gorgeous as expected. The AAA from beautifully realized 
 ships is lethal. BUT! Most campaigns take place over water. Lots of it. And if you start at the 
 lowest rank in any campaign, you are very lucky to participate in combat. The US planes 9 times 
 out of ten have no cannons. So you quite often empty your whole belt of bullets to knock down one 
 Zero (27 feet of bullets in fact - hence the term the whole nine yards if you emptied your magazines... ice 
 breaker at parties) . I could even fly for the RAAF (with the Beaufighter, the only flyable plane 
 in the game that carry a torpedo) . But the Beaufighter Campaign is flawed by very boring ground 
 missions, and an auto-pilot AI that endlessly enjoys flying you and your wingmen into mountains. 
 Often on an escort mission for the USN or the IJN, you in your fighter may notice the strike aircraft 
 you are protecting are colliding with each other and losing 1/2 their planes before an enemy even 
 appears. The Pacific Theatre is a good choice. However, the wealth of targets, the mission variety, 
 and the lethal dogfights are gone or seriously diminished. Promotion within the squadron is more 
 like IL2 than FB which is good. The variety of aircraft is great (but lack of torpedo bombers is 
 baffling) . However, if, when you choose to play Pearl Harbour, don't expect swarms of Japanese 
 aircraft, blazing ships, or smoking runways. You'll get maybe 12 planes, one ship on fire, and... well 
 that's about it. You bang away at a Zero for eternity to shoot it down ( historically they blew 
 up with almost a near miss because of the lack of armour around the fuel tank) , whereas one pass 
 by a Zeke will knock you down straight away. Why your Auto-pilot AI happily follows your leader 
 while 3 Zekes blaze away from behind you has me really confused. As far as content, the package 
 is solid, and if installed as an add-on to IL2FB will give you a sim with maybe too much. Overall, 
 its' disappointing, bug-ridden, and really not a lot of fun. Like the B-29's though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: svns_reaper
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 19, 2006 6:33 pm PT
Review:  Besides some historical inaccuracies about who was flying what and the moronic friends of yours 
 who will crash into mountain tops and are incapable of carrying out their part of the mission the 
 game is great!! Just what you'd expect if you own the IL-2 series. Flying over the ocean is even 
 more boring than flying 150k over land however (thank God for time compression) but taking off 
 and land on carriers is the balls!! Graphics look good, opponents are challenging, some missions 
 are fun. If you like flight sims you will love this. Get the Forgotten Battles gold pack however 
 and treat this like an add-on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JTBHEFLIN
Rating: 5.3
Date: Apr 16, 2006 7:37 pm PT
Review:  First, The United States Marines never used P-39, they used the same aircraft as the US Navy, either 
 ashore or afloat. It seems that all the Allied aircraft with AI pilots have a death wish as they 
 all crash into mountains either in bound or out bound. I was really dismayed at the lack of historical 
 accuracy, considering the outstanding job done in all the ETO and Eastern Front scenarios. After 
 about a week of flustration, I went to the other games in this series and never looked back. If a 
 patch or new software or whatever, comes along, I'll glad buy it and play it again. Until then, I'll 
 just keep flying my Finnish Gladiator, and having fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wooly15
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 24, 2006 9:21 am PT
Review:  This simulation aspects of this game are pretty decent but the voice acting is terrible. Just when 
 you take off for the first time, you think "wow, this is going to be great!", then a rediculous, 
 horribly acted voice calls out on the radio, leaving "WTF" look on your face. For instance, when 
 under attack, and you call for assistance, your wingman responds with happy, playful tone "Ill 
 be right there!". When they were recording, did they ever assume someone helping a friend about 
 to die would ever be happy? C'mon. This is just one in a long list of rediculous voice acting lines. 
 It's almost enough to ruin the game completely. It's also painfully obvious that it's the same 
 actor, slightly changing his voice for different characters. Along the same lines, if you come 
 under attack from behind and you manuver, you get yelled at by your wingman for leaving your leader. 
 Uh, let's see, manuver and live, or stay in formation and die... hmmmm. Quick fix, just turn down 
 the radio traffic volume.
  
  These and the limited theaters available when creating quick missions are the only complaints I 
 have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dezapa
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 16, 2006 2:31 pm PT
Review:  well it just keeps getting better and better as time fly's by lol. i have to say this is one fantastic 
 add on or stand alone game.
  nothing beats trying to land on an aircraft carrier arrgggg....... ive played the series for along 
 time now and cant seem to put any other discs in my rom,
  or when i do its not for long.......... Great game and great fun add up to many hours of fun. thanks 
 alot ubi and ic maddox for this great series.
  im a forever fan and allways will be................ oh no ive got a zero at my six...
  see you 
 in the skies peoples ............. : ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SupaMarioPlumma
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 3, 2006 3:10 am PT
Review:  I have played a lot of combat sims over the years and I have to say this one looks and feels the 
 best of them all. The attention to detail is astonishing, with the graphics as well as the flight 
 dynamics and realism.
  
  1 - Gameplay
  No other flight sim I've played flies as realistic as this one and I'm a pilot in the real world. 
 The planes fly exactly like they are supposed to (with the exception of a few) . They stall the 
 way they are supposed to, the higher you go the less desne the air is therefore making you fly 
 slower. So many details are in this game it is remarkable. Bombing is fun and while not as good 
 as some other sims it still captures the reality of how precise you need to be. The dynamic campaigns 
 are long, tough and fun. The enemy AI is very challenging but still has a few quirks. I would have 
 like to have seen better engine management but I'm satisfied with what is provided. 
  
  2 - Graphics
  The graphics are amazing!! You can really make out all the features of the aircraft 
 as well as various other 3D models. The real gem about the graphics is the 3D cockpits. These are 
 some of the most realistic cockpits I've ever seen on a sim. Right down to every detail from the 
 gauges to the electrical/switches. Though not all of the switches work it still brings realism 
 into play here. Also the water and trees look amazing as well.
  The clouds really grab me in this game. They seem to be the most realistic of any sim I've played 
 and I've played a LOT!! You can even edit and make custom paintschemes for your aircraft!!
  
  3 - Sound 
  The sound could have used a little more work. The engines really don't seem to 
 have that "real life" sound to them as is the case with many other sounds including the machine 
 guns. Though the stall and damage sounds seem well done as do the fires and engine start/stop.
 
  
  -Bottom Line-
  It's worth getting into if you're a sim fan. There's nothing like hopping into an old WWII aircraft 
 and shooting up a foe or two. It's just as easy or complicated as you'd like it to be thanks to 
 the game settings.
  
  You can keep your rank, score, flight history and fly in the long campaigns or just use the "quick 
 mission builder" to jump straight into the fray. Also supports multiplayer which I haven't been 
 able to try yet but I've heard it really fun. Also includes a full mission builder to edit EVERYTHING 
 for your own missions/campaigns.
  
  Just to sit back and take a joyride over the pacific ocean is fun and exciting. You can really 
 get the most out of trying all the features of your aircraft or just fly right into the battle. 
 Try it and if you're a hardcore flight simmer I think you'll find this right up you're alley.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: handag
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 17, 2006 11:11 am PT
Review:  
  This game i can recommend if you are a flight sim fan. As you might know, this game is about the 
 pacific war between the allies and the japanese. You can fly the fearsome A6m Zero or the americans 
 wildcat:) The new feature (if you have played IL-2 sturmovik) is the aircraft carrier. you can 
 take-of and land on the carrier. not only that you can re-live the pearl harbor attack. there are 
 more than 30 playable aircraft's and co-op multi-player LAN or Internet. If you are not as skilled 
 pilot you can simply lower the time and shoot your enemies in slow-mo:) (note: you cant use the 
 slow-mo on the web or Lan) There is also a quick mission builder there you can choose terrain and 
 aircraft (please note: not all aircrafts work on each terrain) there are three terrains too choose 
 from the: Pacific (carrier based) the Okinawa islands and Pacific islands. 
  
  When you choose Career mode you can choose between the American Air force and navy, the Japanese 
 imperial Air force and navy, the british navy and the Aussie royal air force. so there is enough 
 missions to do so please enjoy! :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: csthopper
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 10, 2006 7:31 am PT
Review:  I don't know if there was a patch that fixed some of the low pointes mentioned in this review but 
 i can't agree with what is said. The main reason for the reviewer giving this game an average score 
 is based on flight characteristics not living up to the realism of previous IL-2 games. There is 
 mention that you can not stall some of the aircraft and it is also possible to abuse the flight 
 controls. Well this is simply not true. 5 minutes with this game will show that it holds the same 
 flight characteristics that made IL-2 great. I seem to die more by spinning the aircraft then getting 
 shot down. My only suggestion is that you by the original IL-2 series if you are making your first 
 WWII simulation buy then move up to this game because flying over the ocean for hours at a time 
 can get rather dull on the eyes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: badkarma77
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 8, 2006 7:34 pm PT
Review:  This sim is a 10! Combined with IL2: Forgotten Battles and the ACE expansion pack makes this the 
 best WWII flight sim to date. The carrier launch and recovery alone can take many hours to master. 
 I've been disappointed so many times when I bank hard and pull back on the stick and my wings don't 
 rip off or the plane doesn't flip into a spin. Not with IL2, ACE and Pacific Fighters. Try pulling 
 back too hard in a steep turn and you'll quickly lose control. This sim is Awesome! If you're looking 
 for a sim with a nice story line and arcade flight physics then this sim is not for you. But if 
 you're looking for a sim that accurately simulates the aircraft and weapon systems of the WWII 
 era then this will fill your needs and then some! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robert135
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 4, 2006 5:09 am PT
Review:  I have never played a difficult flight simulator. I had heard of IL Sturmovik, but never played 
 it when I purchased pacific fighters. At first I was a little unimpressed by the graphics, and 
 by the relatively sparse land targets, but that lasted only about an hour. The graphics when you 
 turn em up, are pretty good, but this is a real flight simulator. I didn't even know what that 
 meant before playing this game. It means you can actually tell a huge difference in preference 
 and performace between a myriad of aircraft. No more f-22 lightning = same as JSF = same as what 
 ever fighter... each plane has its own unique characteristics and it really shows. 
  
  It is like playing a history lesson, but making it totally fun. The defend Pearl Harbor mission 
 in your suckage dauntless, just really goes to show why the US got creamed in that attack. I love 
 that mission by the way, trying to play I think the p40's that are stationed at other airports 
 pouring on the speed to get to Pearl, knowling your never going to make it in time, and just have 
 to mop up what is left as the enemy has already done it's damage. 
  
  This game has replayability up the wasoo. There is a mission editor as well if your into that. 
 I played with it, but there is enough to keep me occupied for QUITE some time, before I go to that. 
 
  
  The only complaint I would have against this game is the online play options. They are there, and 
 you can play on UBI SOFT fairly easily, but the setup to get online could be alot better. Think 
 Jedi Knights, or quake or something where you could select a server to join of tons and tons and 
 the interface would help you... there is none of that in this game. Getting online is a bit confusing 
 and you have to go to the forums and download stuff in No Lie Czech!!! or something to find where 
 people are playing... and ip addresses... this could have been alot better.
  
  That said, really It is like I have never played a sim before after playing this game for a while... 
 and I have played a bunch... this is a great game. That's my say.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: soldierforever0
Rating: 9.1
Date: Sep 28, 2005 6:29 pm PT
Review:  To start off with, this game was created by 1C: Maddox, the same people who brought you the IL-2 
 series, so there is no question about quality. 
  
  Pacific Fighters uses the same graphics engine from IL-2 Forgotten Battles and Aces Expansion Pack, 
 but it has been upgraded a bit. Graphics aren't as good as Lock-On: Modern Air Combat or Battle 
 of Britain 2, but it is certainly not bad for a flight simulator. In my opinion flight simulators 
 don't rely on graphics as much as First Person Shooters, but they are important none-the-less. 
 
  
  I do feel the sound could have been given more "feel" and many games surpass Pacific Fighters in 
 that department. The sound is not bad, it's just good enough.
  
  One thing that scares most people away from simulators is the difficulty, but with Pacific Fighters 
 you can tailor the difficulty settings to your own liking, from absolute beginner, to hard core. 
 All settings, from stalls and spins to complex engine management and seperate engine starts can 
 be easily toggled to suit the player's skill level. Single player is also very interesting, allowing 
 you to fly for the Germans, Russians, Hungarians, Japanese and US air forces to name a few, and 
 the AI is excellent in my opinion, each country using their own tactics.
  
  Online this game is an absolute blast, and I have never experienced any lag whatsoever. You can 
 also install Pacific Fighters "ontop" of IL-2 Forgotten Battles and Aces Expansion Pack as a "merge", 
 creating a 3-in-1 package of both European and Pacific air battle, you must take care with the 
 patches though, as the merge only uses the patches with the "m" suffix (for example: 4.01m)
  
  This is an engaging and extremely stable game perfect for newcomers and veteran pilots alike, 
 and you will certainly not be dissapointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sadius_Dread
Rating: 7.3
Date: Aug 3, 2005 3:35 am PT
Review:  I have always enjoyed the IL-2 Sims since they came out. The flight engine is mature so the planes 
 in Pacific Fighters (PF) fly well as expected. The scenery is very good and the AI is challenging. 
 What is missing is any significant new twist or progammimg improvement. Thi is a improved work 
 in progress. I had hoped to have more control of wingman actions since although responsive, their 
 seems to be limited play by the wing man. Indeed he seems to crash with landing on average settings 
 for pilots in the group settings. There are more illustrated tracts which are fun to watch and 
 show real dedication by the Maddox group. All -in-all this is a Good game but due to no real innovations, 
 lacks the very good rating. By the time I purchased the game patch 3.03 is out and 4.01 beta is 
 out. I am hopping to see real improvement in the anticipated Battle of Britain sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RichardW331
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 9, 2005 9:32 am PT
Review:  Instead of writing an essay, if ur a fan of flying then this is the game for u totally and WOW 
 if u have te IL2 and ACE Exansion then ur really gonna love it.
  
  EXTrR3MLy good on multiplayer, ohh the funs never been so intensed :)
  
  Its a must by if u 
 like Flying and as well as making the 3 qall together is much more better and fun.
  Its so good no one can describe the words as u think of them, I love it and im an ACE on just like 
 it sais on the box, u buy it and ur a ACE in no time because its attractive and u play so much 
 you become an ACE
  
  
  Only if you don't like flying games i still would say u would like it, the detail is so imerse 
 and its just like real life 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Worf101
Rating: 7.9
Date: Mar 23, 2005 5:27 pm PT
Review:  I've played IL2 Sturmovik since the first patch to that venrable game came out some years ago. 
 I've eagerly awaited and gobbled up each and every addition to that series. I'd already added IL-2 
 Sturmovik: Forgotten Battles - Ace Expansion Pack onto my machine so I decided to get Pacific Fighters 
 as well. I grew up on WWII movies and while the ETO was fun I always had a special place in my 
 heart for Carrier Operations in the Pacific. 
  
  Installation:
  In a surprising step, Maddox allows you to install P. F as as either a stand-alone or merge it with 
 F. B.-AEP so you can fly tons of planes in either theatre of operations. I decided to merge PF with 
 the other games. Installation was quick and easy and adding this onto my pre-existing version o 
 Forgotten Battles, AEP was a snap. No conflicts, hang ups or glitches just an easy install on a 
 system with Windows XP Pro and an ATI graphics card. All the pactches loaded up fine and so I've 
 no complaints on that score. 
  
  Graphics:
  I built a new computer in July of 2004 and really wanted to see what it could do. With this in 
 mind I maxed out all the settings on this game including the elusive "perfect" setting for water 
 and waited to be wowed and boy was I. The graphics on this game are nothing short of amazing. On 
 mid to high end rig you can find yourself counting rivets on the inside and outside of the cockpits. 
 With the right rig you can have 30 some odd planes flying at fighting in the air at the same time 
 in all their beautifully rendered glory. Truth be told I didn't buy this game right away, so I've 
 the benefit of 3 rounds of patches since this game came out. The water of the Pacific hasn't looked 
 as good since "FarCry" and it's just as inviting. Graphically you can't do much better in a flight 
 sim. 
  
  Gameplay:
  I'd read some pretty scathing reviews on this game when it first came out. Seems like the A. I. 
 was pretty buggy on some of the missions and some of the flight modeling was so so. Since I waited 
 for a few patches before buying, I've not had many of those issues as others have. I still notice 
 some A. I. stupidity like plowing wounded, or even unwounded planes into mountains but nothing so 
 bad as to make the game unplayable.
  
  Like any flight sim you're have to strike a balance between being an arcade shooter and and a training 
 aid for the US Air Force. P. F. strikes a nice balance between the two. The new fighters seem well 
 modelled and the strengths and weaknesses of the various planes seem spot on. I will add my frustration 
 though to the fact that there were no flyable torpedo or dive bombers in the game when I purchased 
 it. I've yet to see if the patches added any but truth be told, there should've been some included 
 at the start since they were so integral a part of the Pacific air war. 
  
  Sound:
  Outstanding sound, music and effects. Nothing quite like that sickening feeling of hearing bullet 
 impacts in your rear speakers. Sounds track well from speaker to speaker and a wide variety of 
 configurations are offered. I will say that the engines on the Japanese fighters sound generic 
 and weak. I can tell the difference between Soviet and German engines in my sleep, with the Japanese 
 planes... forget it. Surprising oversight for the usually meticulous Oleg. 
  
  Overall Rating:
  I'd have to give Pacific Fights a 8 as expansion flight sims go. While I love 
 the new planes added, new campaigns and maps. etc, the game shipped with too many bugs and a glaring 
 lack of flyable torpedo/bombers. It seems that recent patches have included improved models, more 
 planes and bug fixes but you don't review games after they've been patched. 
  
  Da Worfster
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: littlealien
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 26, 2005 1:32 pm PT
Review:  A brilliant well balanced game. The only thing I would mark down in this game is the fact that 
 the AI is crap at times. I have seen planes collide and even on training missions where the computer 
 is showing you what to do I have seen the computer crash intot he control tower. 
  
  Other than these minor imperfection I cannot fault it.
  
  The game is obviously the next step 
 up from IL-2 and with Battle of Britain sitting out there on the horizon things can only get better.
 
  
  I play this game mostly in the Quick flight mode which allows you to fly a plane of your choice 
 against up to 16 enemy planes. You can also set to fly against land targets 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pad69
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 20, 2004 12:16 pm PT
Review:  Yep WWII flying can't be better unless you fly the real thing minus the enemies. UBI has done even 
 better. This game can be played or I should say installed as stand alone or installed to your existing 
 previous additions or both ways.
  
  They have improved the graphics which make the look even better. The sound quality has also been 
 improved.
  
  There is training missions in this set up for take off and landing on carriers. It also has a good 
 manual built in as usual. You can fly bombers and inter change you positions with piolet, bombadeer 
 and gunners.
  
  Quick mission, mission editor, campagne online as well as single campagne and single missions which 
 give such variety of play. You can create you own paint scheemes for your planes and record your 
 play for playback like a movie.
  
  You will have a long learning curve with this one because there is so much to do.
  
  There 
 is so much to do with this game I could go on but you be the judge and lay your dollar down. Get 
 them all and make sure you shoot some down for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Unltd
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 2, 2004 10:21 pm PT
Review:  A definite must have for the WWII history buff. There are just so many aspects to this masterpiece 
 that its hard to quantify all of it. First and formost, its the best flight simulator available 
 on the PC. So as far as the taking off, landing, landing on carriers, navigation and airobatics 
 are concerned, its the best. Then you add all the aspects of combat and you have an even greater 
 sim. Next add the ability to create your own missions, campaigns and aircraft paint scemes. And 
 finally, add the ability to make movies and take some of the most artful screen shots of any game 
 and you have a lifetime of fun. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
