-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Painkiller: Battle out of Hell
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/painkillerexpansionpackbattleoutofhell/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Great Painkiller gameplay mostly intact.
 Some incredible new levels.
 Bosses not as inscrutably puzzle-oriented.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Painfully long load times.
 Some lackluster levels.
 A few aggravating insta-death jumping puzzles.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 22, 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.6
Critic Score: 7.7, 36 Review (s)
User Score: 8.2, 814 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: DreamCatcher Interactive
Developer: People Can Fly
Genre: Fantasy First-Person...
Date:     Dec 1, 2004
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The first Painkiller expansion is still an impressive ride; it's just somewhat more sporadic than 
 the original. 

  Coming out of left field straight from Poland just eight months ago, Painkiller was an awesome 
 surprise in what's turned out to be a great year for high-quality shooters. With its wildly varied 
 environments, impressive physics, huge cast of creatures, creative weapon design, and a focus on 
 pure action over exposition, it was both a throwback and a hair-raising step forward in relentless 
 intensity. Battle out of Hell, the game's official expansion pack, doesn't mess around with the 
 winning formula. It features 10 new levels (each with an original set of enemies and an unlockable 
 tarot card) , two new weapons, and some new multiplayer modes and maps. While some of the new levels 
 match the quality of the original, roughly half of them feel like content that simply didn't pass 
 muster the first time around. And now that the game's novelty has worn off a little, some of its 
 design and technical flaws have become more glaring. It's still an impressive ride; it's just somewhat 
 more sporadic than the original.  

          An homage to Doom 3?     

  The game does get off to a terrific start. The first level is a variation on the original's creepy 
 asylum level. This new one, which takes place in an abandoned orphanage, is even better. The ambient 
 soundtrack of clanks, whooshes, and children's voices, combined with the army of little corpses 
 that dog your every step, give it a nearly perfect haunted house atmosphere. There's even a nice 
 homage to an eerie scene from  The Changeling . The second level, set in a satanic theme park, 
 continues the expansion's winning streak. It's visually striking, frenetic, and it features an 
 action sequence that gives new meaning to the observation that heavily scripted shooters are turning 
 into amusement park rides.  

  After these two levels, which are as good as anything in the original, things begin to slide gently 
 downhill. There are a couple of other decent levels, like the one that takes place in a zombie-infested 
 city. This level looks spectacular and makes good use of the physics engine with some car-tossing 
 mayhem. Another level, set in war-torn, and, yes, zombie-infested, Leningrad, is equally intense. 
 But for the most part, much of the rest of the game is kind of bland. Two levels take place in 
 virtually identical-looking caves. Since one of the pleasures of the original was how visually 
 different the levels were from one another, it's a disappointment that these two are not only virtually 
 indistinguishable, but also placed one right after the other. Another of the 10 levels is only 
 available on the Nightmare difficulty. Though, calling it a level may be giving it too much credit, 
 since it's really just a square room with a monster (recycled from the zombie city level) stomping 
 around in it.  

  The final conflict is better than the original in some ways and worse in other ways. The environment 
 isn't nearly as remarkable as in the first game, though that's an admittedly tough act to follow. 
 On the bright side, however, the boss itself is a lot less frustrating to fight. There's still 
 a puzzle to killing him, but it's not as ridiculously counterintuitive. In fact, the developers 
 appear to have gotten better at designing boss battles. The few boss battles that are scattered 
 throughout the game's levels are still mostly puzzle-based, but the puzzles are a little more reasonable. 

  Unfortunately, the designers decided to replace the aggravating bosses with some even more aggravating 
 jumping puzzles. One series of jumps over a deadly pool of lava is just an inexplicably bad design 
 choice. Even worse, the game's unreasonably long loading times make the necessity of retrying the 
 jump over and over again almost unbearable. Even though the game is being run on a machine that 
 exceeds the recommended specs, many of the levels still take upwards of two minutes for both the 
 initial and quick loads. The instant death followed by two minutes of waiting, which results from 
 missing these aforementioned jumps, is overly punitive and it brings the entire game to a screeching 
 halt.  

  The two new weapons are iconic of the whole game; one of them is great, the other one's kind of 
 so-so. The great one combines a powerful rapid-fire machine gun with a really satisfying flamethrower. 
 The other weapon is a scoped sniper rifle that fires a tight bundle of five stakes. In its alternate 
 mode, it fires bursts of bouncing explosives. The sniper rifle occasionally comes in handy, but 
 the bouncing bombs are a little too unpredictable for anything but backup crowd control.  

          The very creepy, very excellent orphanage level.     

  Two new multiplayer modes have 
 been added: capture the flag (no explanation required) and last man standing (deathmatch with limited 
 lives) . While the single-player game is a throwback enhanced by both the physics engine and relentless 
 pacing, the multiplayer is pretty much just a throwback. It works, but it's hard to imagine anyone 
 getting too worked up over it.  

  You still get two great levels, a few good levels, and then some other stuff for the reasonable 
 price of $20. And if it seems like we're being overly harsh, it's only because we love Painkiller 
 so much and just want the best for the franchise. So enough with the puzzle bosses! And fix the 
 loading times! And get rid of the idiotic jumping puzzles! Make more levels like the orphanage! 
 Please.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (16 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: asafs16
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 19, 2008 12:13 pm PT
Review:  a yes.. PAINKILLER.. one of the greatest games ever made, i mean the action is fantastic.. tons 
 of monsters lots and lots of blood non-stop shooting damn this thing is one of the best
  
  and now lets talk about painkiller BATTLES OUT OF HELL be ready for one big review:
  
  so, 
 after i finished painkiller i said to my self.. oh no! the game is already over? damn it was so 
 fun and cool.. so i decided to write in GAMESPOT painkiller and walla.. i sow an expansion pack.. 
 yeah thats what i want more levels more action and BATTLES OUT OF HELL has it all
  
  graphics: the graphic of the game is the same.. not much of a change.. its the same but still the 
 graphic are ok, the visual effects also the same as the first one.. and still awesome visual effects 
 of fire shooting blood and more.. i love it so much!!
  
  sounds: ah yes.. still awesome sounds nice ROCK music and sound of shooting and more..
  
  gameplay: 
 again, the same as first painkiller its not a bad thing becuase the gameplay is so easy like the 
 old first person shooters..
  
  scary? : yeah.. first painkiller has some horror.. but this one is really scary, lots of dark and 
 no flashlight its really good and could be really creppy like when i opened a door a giant horror 
 monster came out and i was so fricked out
  
  let me finish by saying that painkiller battles out of hell is like first painkiller in every way 
 only different levels and a new story.. the game is shorter than first painkiller but not that 
 short
  if you see painkiller series you got to buy them, they really worth it
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: krazyorange
Rating: 0
Date: Nov 11, 2008 9:12 pm PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        Painkiller: Battle out of Hell 
 User Reviews for PC - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, 
 iTrkId, cTrkPrefix) { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; 
 } if (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  
 var newUri = cTrkPrefix + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 
 (parentId, iTrkId, iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem 
 =  if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  
 if (! parentElem) { return false; } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { 
 return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; 
 imgElem. height = '1';  } return true; }   ON   The Insider :  Megan 
 Foxs Trip Across the Border    //    
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChristianKiss
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 30, 2008 6:59 am PT
Review:  If you're familiar with the original Painkiller (People Can Fly, Dreamcatcher Interactive, 2004) , 
 then you know what this game is all about. Daniel Garner died in a car accident, and he's now in 
 the purgatory. After defeating Lucifer in the original game, he must now get out of hell, and this 
 is where Battle out of Hell starts. This simple but working story is related by the only two cut-scenes 
 in the whole game, and I rather preferred not to watch them, because they done something really 
 weird with Daniel's looking in this expansion. Although he isn't memorable as Duke Nukem or Sam 
 'Serious' Stone (mainly because he doesn't speak during the levels) , he stills a great character, 
 and I didn't like what the designers did with him. Not to mention the story, that isn't as enjoyable 
 as the one in the original game. However, that beautiful woman, Eve (Daniel's comrade in the purgatory) , 
 stills a pretty and nice-looking girl.
  
  Painkiller is focused in the action sequences, which means you don't have to worry about stealth 
 or strategy. All you must to do is to shoot legions of enemies, such as undeads, demons, soldiers 
 etc. And Battle out of Hell isn't much different in this aspect. But some of the 10 new levels 
 is filled with deadly traps and jumping areas, which if you do a mistake (and you'll usually do) , 
 prepare to hit the 'Quick Load' button and wait for that ****ing long loading bar to finish. Yes, 
 they didn't fix the loading time, and even seems a little longer than it was before.
  
  Nevertheless, this expansion isn't as bad as it sounds. There're two new great weapons, and I found 
 both of them good additions. The Flamethrower is excellent in closed areas and against large groups 
 of enemies. It also fires an armor-piercing bullet, which is great to take down isolated individuals. 
 The second new weapon is the Bolt Driver, which is a bit similar to the Stake Gun, but with a sniper 
 scope and a more precise shoot. The alternate fire launches a bunch of unpredictably bouncing explosives 
 that can kill the player in less than a second. It's a little difficult to use, but it's extremely 
 powerful against lots of monsters.
  
  The 10 new maps aren't all good as the original Painkiller. Some of them, which are four or five 
 levels, are faithful to the original maps, while the rest isn't nearly as good. I'll spoiler a 
 little: The first map is the well-known orphanage level, which works as a purgatory for dead children. 
 Very creepy and well-designed map, it's one of the best in the entire expansion. There're a few 
 others which is almost equally great as the first level, but the other ones aren't very inspired. 
 For instance, let me say that the developers seem to have a fetish for explosions. Some levels 
 are filled with explosions from nowhere (takes a while to figure out where they came from) , enemies 
 that can explode themselves, or monsters that can fire an explosive projectile against you. And 
 the worst: because of the ludicrous blast that all of these weapons produce on impact, dodge is 
 almost impossible. Another flaw, in my opinion, is the soundtrack. No more rock or heavy-metal, 
 but that isn't as relevant as the uninspired design of some maps.
  
  However, the combats still great. There're some places that you'll be surrounded by dozens of enemies, 
 and it does not slow down the game. The 'PAIN Engine' can handle all those enemies, as well large 
 areas with amazing lightning effects with good frames per second. Battle out of Hell runs as good 
 as the original Painkiller on a mid-range PC. The only problem, as I said before, is the loading 
 times. Naturally, if you have a high-end computer, then you won't have any problems with that.
 
  
  The multiplayer is enhanced with two new modes: Last Man Standing (gives limited lives for the 
 players) and Capture the Flag. Although the new content is OK, they persist in the same mistake 
 by not introducing a 'Cooperative mode'. It would greatly extend the life of both the expansion 
 and the original game, as Battle out of Hell lasts only 10 hours or less in the single-player mode.
 
  
  That amount of life time can be extended if you decide to unlock the new black tarot cars. These, 
 if you don't already know, are power-ups to give a certain bonus when you go to the next level. 
 The cards can boost speed, damage, health and so, and makes the game a little easier. Well, easier 
 when you actually use them, because to unlock these cards you'll have to accomplish some hard objectives, 
 such as killing a boss in a given time, kill all monsters with a particular weapon etc. The use 
 of these cards is important, since some levels at higher difficult settings are really hard.
  
  You can still morph into demon when you collect 66 souls from your dead opponents. In that 
 form you can instantly kill any monster you shoot, and that's very useful is some levels. Thus, 
 collecting souls isn't just for that, but also for adding good portions of health when you're almost 
 dying.
  
  So, Painkiller: Battle out of Hell isn't just more of the same. And I say that's most unfortunate, 
 because the original game was superb, while the expansion comes with really annoying levels. But 
 considering the new multiplayer modes, the additional weapons and a few really good maps, this 
 expansion still worth of a try if you enjoyed the original Painkiller. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lorddessan91
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 7, 2007 10:40 pm PT
Review:  ... And the answer is "Yes" it is and it's more scariest then the first one... The first level is 
 sooooo dark and so horrible, but he graphics and the music are, like, the same... and the character 
 is the same, at some point the weapons are the same... and the action is the same. That old school 
 shooting is still great, like the first one there are plenty of enemies that you have to deal with, but 
 the game is short and that's expected, cuz it's a expansion pack, but another killing dose of pure, violent 
 action is always well come, I've played it after school and when I can't sleep, it's just so sucking... But 
 the difficulty is actually "Easy" again... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MasterMarcus
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 6, 2007 6:51 am PT
Review:  Pros: same good old formulaic gameplay; fast action; three good levels; decent enemy variety.
 
  Cons: several uninspired, boring levels; new tarot cards useless; some frustrating fights/jumps; 
 uneven ammo placement; forgettable story; ugly cut scenes.
  
  More of the same good old formula can be good sometimes, yet the studio behind this expansion to 
 the acclaimed Painkiller frag fest cooked up around three good levels out of the ten for around 
 five hours of gameplay: Orphanage ( the first ) and Stone Pit ( penultimate ) can even offer unique 
 gameplay experiences. Otherwise, the other layouts generate a tedious urban/subterranean paths 
 overly d&eacute; j&agrave; vu. Low polygon rocks, cart rails, parking lots, unpolished jumping semi-puzzles 
 just render the whole voyage a mediocre revisit to the genre despite some well designed creatures.
 
  
  The story itself is easily forgettable; it only serves the purpose of a minimal bare bone scenario 
 weaving the faux pretext involving the main character, Daniel, perpetuating his fight in Hell against 
 the new boss, Alastor, from whom he always find a way to escape until the end. Many plot holes 
 occur along the way. The core FPS addict playing this has for only purpose to enjoy the ensuing 
 gleeful carnage - nothing more.
  
  As expected, the expansion offer an adrenaline overdose of ''serioussamish'' action unfortunately 
 set in overused urban/underground layouts. By the exception of the good ones aforementioned, most 
 of the mid game levels just rehash in a bland manner what we abundantly touted in previous iterations 
 of the sub genre, i. e. a deformed reality in Hell. At least there are ten new tarot cards to unlock, 
 one per level under a very hard requirement ( nigh impossible for the normal player, even being 
 somewhat FPS veteran ) . This is a useless paradox, since almost - if not all but the very last 
 to be unlocked once the single player completed - are pretty much cosmetic compared to the powerful 
 ones from the original, like Iron Will. Pick the latter as you did in the vanilla game, coupled 
 with the one allowing the use of Golden Cards three times per level ( which comes handy in Stone 
 Pit ) , then you're set to tackle the game at ease without the use of any new tarot.
  
  The new enemy designs sweeping across the playground may resemble any ghoulish fare we're accustomed 
 to, out of the loop. They look professionally built nonetheless, adding an interesting challenge 
 whenever the player become in dire need of ammo/health - strangely dispersed in questionable strategic 
 places upon uneven distances. This only add an artificial challenge, like the clipping issues often 
 encountered during jumping scenes which always knock a big uppercut to the fun factor.
  
  Even by late 2004 standards, the graphical engine began to show its age. Nothing has been upgraded 
 over the vanilla game. Sometimes, the texturing up close becomes uglier than before. Barring that, 
 the unscrupulous gamer should find the visual playground adequately displayed for the action delivered. 
 Frame rates are constant; the veneer looks quite fluid and pleasant overall but the color palette 
 pales in comparison to the newly references setting the example by then: Half Life 2 and Doom 3. 
 Cut scenes are particularly ugly to see, amongst the worst ever made in the 2000s ( Daniel and 
 Eve are barely recognizable ) . It would have been better to have none of them at all. Still, the 
 developers took a thorough care to polish the enemy creatures: taken alone, their polygon count 
 almost top the references mentioned.
  
  Ambient music and all the other sound effects ( including weapons) stay on the same league heard 
 before, by the exception of the battle music which go very silent. The metallic side has been abandoned, 
 a blatant discard for an underwhelming audio score compared to the predecessor.
  
  Battle Out of Hell should please hardcore fans of the original, for a brief moment. In essence, 
 they could forgive the little art cuts but it seems the budget limitations hampered much more the 
 level creativity imperative for this kind of game. Another FPS sub genre due for a big overhaul. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UltimateGamer95
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 9, 2007 8:59 am PT
Review:  Gameplay - one of the best parts of this game, including the expansion, is making a pile of bloody 
 corpses with you heavy artillery. The Havok 2 physics engine is amazing. It is truly what makes 
 painkiller a great game. Also, the two new weapons (smg/flamethrower and boltgun/heater) are an 
 excellent edition to the other 5 (10 actually because each weapon has a secondary fire) weapons 
 in your arsenal. Graphics - the environments, enemys, and weapons are highly detailed which gives 
 the game a realistic feel.
  
  sound - the weapon sounds are top notch and the music on each level fits perfectly with the environment.
 
  
  value - the expansion is even better than the original and with 10 new levels it is a worth expansion 
 that will keep you hooked. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JOE714
Rating: 0
Date: Apr 5, 2007 12:00 pm PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        Painkiller: Battle out of Hell 
 User Reviews for PC - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, 
 iTrkId, cTrkPrefix) { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; 
 } if (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  
 var newUri = cTrkPrefix + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 
 (parentId, iTrkId, iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem 
 =  if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  
 if (! parentElem) { return false; } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { 
 return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; 
 imgElem. height = '1';  } return true; }   ON   CBSSports. com : 
  Hottie Hall Of Fame ? Fox vs Alba&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;    //    
::::::

::::::
UserName: MallratsJaySB
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 20, 2006 1:08 pm PT
Review:  Painkiller is one of the best first person shooters I've played in years. It was frantic, chaotic, 
 and all around fun. But Battle out of Hell fails to reach the bar that Painkiller set. If you are 
 even considering playing this expansion, then I'm assuming you've played the original Painkiller 
 so I'll keep this short. You are still Daniel Garner and after defeating Lucifer from the first 
 game, you must battle out of Hell, hence the name. But this time, Alastor, one of Lucifer's minions, 
 has taken Lucifer's place as ruler of Hell and you must stop him.
  
  The gameplay is practically unchanged from its predecessor. The goal is still to run around, shoot 
 everything in sight, and then proceed to the next area to do the same thing. There were only 5 
 guns in Painkiller and this expansion only creates, I believe, 2 more guns, both of which really 
 aren't all that impressive, but still effective. The gameplay is still intact and still very fun. 
 It seems like mindless shooting will never get old. But this time around, the gameplay is hampered 
 by incredibly stupid jumping segments. I've heard a lot of complaining about this area of the game 
 and I didn't think much of it, but now I know what they mean. They are incredibly difficult to 
 do so you will die a lot when attempting these ridiculous areas, which means you'll be staring 
 at the loading screen a lot. Another thing to mention in the gameplay is the difficulty. The expansion 
 is considerably harder than Painkiller. This game will truly test your skills and see how much 
 you learned from playing the original.
  
  The graphics are about as good as the last game. The levels and enemies are still very good looking. 
 The first level is in an orphanage and it looks great and it is very creepy. The second level is 
 a demonic amusement park and also is very well done. After this though, the levels are just as 
 uncreative and clich&eacute; as any other FPS game, but still good enough to keep you playing. 
 The cutscenes also look about as good as the first game. There's nothing here that will astonish 
 you, but nothing that should make you feel like they should have tried harder.
  
  The sound doesn't seem quite up to par with its predecessor. The guns haven't changed at all and 
 the fact that they sound weaker than they should is very evident. The demonic sounds and laughs 
 from the first game are also almost completely absent. It's a shame since that was a shining area. 
 Also, there are only two cutscenes, one at the beginning and one at the end, and neither of them 
 have an awful lot of dialogue, so it seems that the voice actors just did it real quick for the 
 paycheck.
  
  Overall, if you played and liked Painkiller, there's no reason for you not to enjoy Battle out 
 of Hell. It's practically more of the same, but at the same time considerably worse. The gameplay 
 is still intact, but dampened by needless jumping areas. Everything else is either up to par or 
 slightly under the first game. The bottom line is this: Battle out of Hell will amaze you for the 
 first two levels, but after that disappoint. If you enjoyed Painkiller, I can whole heartedly recommend 
 Battle out of Hell, but don't expect it to be nearly as good as the first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nightharvest
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 28, 2006 7:00 am PT
Review:  Painkiller was always going to be a hard act to follow. It just about got everything right. Superb 
 graphics and effects, some super cool sounds and a game that was paced just about perfectly. It 
 was always going to be a hard act to follow for any follow up, though the raw material was already 
 in place. But the bottom line is that Painkiller: Battle Out Of Hell (BOOH) is one hell of a let 
 down. While it is fair enough to run out of ideas, what is almost inexplicable are the changes 
 that were made to the detriment. Its still fun in parts, and still has a few great levels, but 
 it's too short, at times too frustrating and its almost a relief once it is all over.
  
  Painkiller BOOH came out about eight months after Painkiller, developed by the same team that made 
 the original. The doubts start setting in from the opening cut-scene. A overly long conversation 
 with our hero Daniel Garner and Eve, as she describes how Dan the Man needs to go back to hell 
 to defeat the final wave of minions and beasts. Eve says all this with a qualifier, of course. 
 So back goes Dan to ten (or nine of default difficulty) levels of the same fast and furious FPS 
 action with super effects, and all delivered with white-knuckled intensity. Or does he?
  
  The graphics are still of the same high standard that was introduced in the original. The game 
 takes place in some impressive environments and the enemies (including several new ones) still 
 look very crisp, move very well and still go hurtling through the air thanks to the excellent physics 
 system. However, there is not the same level of variety, with some being re-hashes of (admittedly 
 some of the better) levels from Painkiller and others looked just plain bland. There are some terrific 
 explosions and other effects, the new weapons are well designed and created and the game still 
 runs smoothly when there is plenty of action on the screen. Thankfully, they didnt change the 
 graphics too much. Having said this, the cut-scenes were very ordinary, both in design and presentation, 
 leaving you feeling no real emotion for either Dan or Eve.
  
  The sounds are solid but ultimately disappointing. The enemies still growl and snarl their way 
 towards you in a very suitable manner and the firefights sound very crisp and realistic. However, 
 gone (on the whole) is the rockin soundtrack as you blasted your way through levels and replaced 
 by a more varied and eclectic set of tunes. Whilst these are probably well composed ad programmed, 
 some did not create the atmosphere that would be expected for this sort of game. The developers 
 should have stuck with the one clich, not introduced several.
  
  The game-play was a real mixed bag. The first two levels were quite brilliant. The Orphanage was 
 suitably creeping with some excellent close-quarter action, and the Loony Park was literally one 
 wild ride. But things did go downhill from there, and with the exception of a couple of levels 
 (Zombie City and Leningrad) the game-play felt generic and a lot less exciting the one ever expected 
 it would. And for someone unknown reason, the developers decided to introduce some jumping puzzles 
  which in one word, are INFURIATING. They added nothing of value to the game.
  
  The best firefights in the game are still an awesome gaming experience. At times there are dozens 
 of enemies coming for you, and its a visceral and kinetic experience as you battle it out with 
 these foes. The boss levels (two of them, and a mini-boss at the end of another) are less complex 
 to defeat, but still do require a bit of trial and error. The new weapons offer some interesting 
 tactical options to your game-play, and you actually start with all the tarot cards from the original 
 game  which is of assistance as well as the ability to pick up another from each of the levels. 
 However, there is a little bit too much filler. Maybe Painkiller ended at just the right time. 
 Perhaps such an elementary gaming concept couldnt deliver too much more of the same thing without 
 becoming repetitive. In the end, when you have finally beaten Alastor, and Eve then takes what 
 she wants with a dash of cunning and betrayal, it actually isnt the first time you think youve 
 been sold out.
  
  It is also quite short. The game took me between six and seven hours. Five hours for the original 
 campaign on default difficult and a bit more again to go through a few levels to get to the boss 
 level not available on the standard campaign. A level that is quite forgettable. There is multiplayer, 
 which I havent played, but there is basically no replay value in the single player campaign. I 
 was happy when it all ended.
  
  I paid about $AUD17 for Painkiller BOOH. I guess thats not bad value, but its not one to rush 
 out and buy. Get the original for $AUD10, or if you have that purchase this with the knowledge 
 that it is not a patch on that, in more ways than one.
  
  Painkiller BOOH is such a mixed bag. It does have three or four great levels, but the remainder 
 are quite bland. Its short, it has new elements that are frustrating and disappointing and it 
 simply runs out of puff with its narrow focus. Its a hard game to recommend, as it may taint the 
 good impressions left by the original. But if you like your FPS served thick and fast, its worth 
 a try. Just dont expect greatness. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nurbachsch
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 18, 2006 2:25 am PT
Review:  Painkiller grades as the best FPS to come out recently and it's first official add-on Battle Out 
 Of Hell was on top of my "got to have" list for a very long time until it finally hit stores. Bought 
 it, brought it back home and started playing. It was a mixed sensation.
  
  On the one hand there's the still the solid-to-boot gameplay that Painkiller offers. The entire 
 feel of the game's fighting and movement is nearly perfect and seamless. In that respect the developer's 
 did not change anything at all and went with their winning recipe. They did add two new weapons, 
 though. And what weapons these are!
  
  The first one is combination of automatic gun and flamethrower. The short but powerful bursts of 
 the gun can keep the strongest enemies in check, while you can dish out fiery death that spreads 
 itself from victim to victim. Probably the most powerful weapon in the game. The other new weapon 
 could be viewed as an upgraded stake gun. Its primary mode fires off five compact stakes with high 
 velocity. No more parabolic flying arches, just straight shots and serious damage. In secondary 
 fire mode you can shellshock oncoming monsters with a barrage of bouncing grenades that are a little 
 unpredictable, but can be quite helpful to dispel larger crowds. But what makes this weapon really 
 stand out is its sniper mode. Zoom into distant enemies and pick the off without even being noticed. 
 A mighty helpful feature.
  
  Of course, a real add-on has to shine with new levels and, preferably, new enemies as well. Battle 
 Out Of Hell has all of that. Quite a lot of totally new and beautifully designed levels plus a 
 set of brand-new monsters for each of these levels. There is an eerie orphanage, haunted by the 
 ghost of a nun and besieged by demonic child-monsters of all varieties. You will stumble through 
 the streets of a dead city, followed by zombies and flying demons, all the time keeping a look-out 
 for the gigantic arachnoid monster that stalks this cement hell. Empty attractions welcome you 
 to the deadly fair, where psychotic killer clowns and frightening marionettes roam the grounds. 
 Pirates will lust for your life with sable and cannons in the caverns deep in the bowels of the 
 earth. Slaughter-happy soldiers and generals with burnt flesh and bloodlust in their eyes will 
 attack you in war-torn leningrad. And there's still more.
  
  Just as in the original game, each monsters is a sight to behold, each new scenario excellently 
 accomplished in detail and atmosphere. Models are all well-designed and sport very appropriate 
 and well-executed animations. There are no faults in that respect. Neither has the sound quality 
 decreased, most of the new monsters were even awarded with completely new sound bites and effects, 
 the few that have been recycled aren't even really noticeable, as the have undergone a fine effects 
 and distortion treatment.
  
  There is only one thing that really bothers me about the add-on: we get new levels, new monsters, 
 even new multiplayer modes (although not spectacular ones) , but where's the next step? The beginning 
 of the evolution of Painkiller? A game as good as Painkiller surely deserves to be carried on and 
 built upon and to last us a long, long time in many wonderful incarnations. All that Battle Out 
 Of Hell offers is a few more hours of new content. While that in itself is more than reason enough 
 to buy the add-on it feels a little bit like a place-holder, something you throw in to keep your 
 customers occupied while you try to get the real deal done. Well, we are all waiting for the real 
 deal. So where's Painkiller 2? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: benroy
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 18, 2006 12:35 am PT
Review:  I really was looking forward to playing "Battle out Of Hell" after finishing the original title 
 on both Insomnia and Trauma difficulty settings. When I started the first level of Battle out Of 
 Hell I noticed that my money (coins, treasure, doubloons, booty, etc.) from the original game didn't 
 carry over. I know this is a minor complaint, but if a fifteen-year-old game from 1991 called "Wing 
 Commander II" could let you import info and stats from a previous save-game into the expansion/sequel, 
 then how hard would it be now? As a result, I was forced to play the more cash-happy levels over 
 and over and over again to collect enough cash to be able to afford the placement of (essential) 
 cards.
  
  I also agree with the Game spot review regarding the insane jumping puzzles. Obtaining the card 
 from the Stone Pit level is almost impossible; in fact it IS impossible unless certain patch (s) 
 are applied. Considering the difficulty and repetitive nature of said jumping puzzles combined 
 with a "QUICK"-load feature that can seem to actually reverse time with it's slowness (30 sec. 
 +) , it's very apparent that the developers of Battle Out Of Hell were sorely lacking on play-testers 
 and competent level designers. 
  
  Speaking of level designers; the use of excessive teleporters was just cheap and dirty. While it 
 may have been cool in the 90's (Team Arena, etc.) , the use of teleporters is just an amateur way 
 of trying to increase the frame rate or general performance by isolating a portion or the level 
 or area. 
  
  But on the good side, it's creative, engaging and the addition of the new weapons is very welcome. 
 My additional praise goes to the "Looney Park" and the difficult yet satisfying "Leningrad portions. 
 It runs pretty smooth on my Radeon 9700 Pro (my 9900 pro blew up recently) especially considering 
 the hugeness of some of the levels. I did experience a good amount of random crashes, it seems 
 that Battle out Of Hell could have used a month or so longer in development but as frustrating 
 as it can be it's definitely worth your 9 to 14 hours.
  
  P. S. The battle music is also especially bad in this expansion, with few exceptions.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zwulith
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 1, 2006 7:22 am PT
Review:  When Painkiller was released last year, it was really an impressive ride. Not only did it have 
 a physics engine that blew apart every monster you killed, but it also had great graphics and had 
 some impressive level variety. It wasn't without it's problems though. One was little to no replay 
 value, although the shooting was a ton of fun, it got a tad repetitive after a while. Painkiller 
 battle out of Hell returns with all of these features and a few new ones. The biggest is the new 
 levels while some new multiplayer modes have also been added. You also have two new weapons and 
 some new enemies to fight against.
  
  Painkiller definitely ended with an anti-climax and, thankfully Battle out of Hell takes off right 
 after that "ending". The hero of Painkiller Daniel Garner, is back and is battling his way out 
 of Hell. He eventually gets out of Hell and has to stop Alastor, the super villian from the first 
 game. In order to stop him, from taking over the world he must go through ten different levels 
 and shoot up hundreds upon hundreds of monsters and demons. The problem with the story, just like 
 in the first game, is that it's pretty convoluted. It's really not that original of a story and 
 doesn't make too much sense in the long run. Why only send one man to do all of this? How can he 
 possibly take out all of these demons and bosses that are larger than life all by himself? A personal 
 question I have about this game and even in the original is how can Daniel, who always has a shotgun 
 with him in every cutscene, never have to reload it? He fires off dozens of shots in the beginning 
 of the game and never once has to reload it. There are also not that many cutscenes in the game. 
 Two to be exact. Painkiller battle out of hell is yet another excuse to create a Serious Sam type 
 iteration, although the shooting mechanics work well.
  
  As I said before, Painkiller battle out of Hell, just like it's predecessor is a first-person shooter 
 with a heavy emphasis on shooting. There's rarely anything that breaks up the action, although 
 this time around, there seems to be quite a bit more puzzles that are more frustrating then they 
 should be. This isn't a game for puzzles and, unfortunately, this brings down the fun factor quite 
 a bit. A good example of these puzzles is in the Colosseum level later on in the game. You have 
 to jump through three different pits and the only way to do this is to do a running jump and time 
 it just right. It's harder than it sounds because there isn't a whole lot of room to jump and there 
 are small ledges that stick out that you have to use to jump across. There are also different puzzles, 
 such as the boulders that you have to run past at the right time. This really breaks up the action 
 in what is otherwise one fast-paced game that never stops.
  
  The level design has taken a big turn too. Some of the levels have a gothic look that really fits 
 this game well, but other levels are just way off. The best two levels are actually the first two. 
 The orphanage and satanist park levels are great. These are the only two great levels, all of the 
 others are pretty uninterestng. Two levels look the same and the others just blend together.
  
  Painkiller battle out of hell is a bit harder than the original Painkiller. The jumping puzzles 
 are only part of it. The other part is the monsters, which seem to take twice as much damage as 
 before to take out. The shotgun, which was hands down, the most powerful weapon of the first game, 
 is now pretty lackluster and doesn't do all that much. Luckily, there are two new weapons which 
 make up for the shotgun's loss of power.
  
  The two new weapons are a machine gun/flamethrower and stake gun- sniper rifle/grenade launcher. 
 These weapons are just upgrades to the original stake gun and the chain gun/rocket launcher. The 
 new machine gun/flamethrower weapon is by far the better of the two mainly because the firing speed, 
 while in short bursts, is much more powerful than the chaingun's firing speed. The flamethrower 
 portion is pretty much an update to the rocket launcher part of the chaingun as it fires off a 
 satisfying array of fire that is perfect for crowd control. The lesser of the two weapons is the 
 stake gun/grenade launcher which actually fires off five stakes at once. The problem is that these 
 stakes are pretty inaccurate and thanks to the quickness of your enemies and the speed of the game, 
 makes for a lackluster weapon. The second weapon, which fires off 10 grenades at once, is also 
 pretty lackluster. It isn't your best choice because the grenades don't explode, on impact, so 
 even if you have a bunch of foes in front of you and the grenades hit them, they still won't explode. 
 If there's a wall, it ends up backfiring and hitting you instead. You also don't get a lot of ammo 
 for this weapon. Still, the machine gun/flamethrower really makes up for it.
  
  The graphics in Painkiller were fantastic. This time around the graphics have been upgraded tremendously. 
 The reflections in the water are brilliant. The character models and textures and environments 
 are also much cleaner this time around. The physics system really kicks in when foes explode. I 
 really loved how the first-person framerate rarely dropped when you have lots of enemies around 
 you, but no game is perfect and Painkiller battle out of Hell's cutscenes look pretty ugly. There 
 rather grainy-looking cutscenes that are not impressive at all. Still, the graphics are tough to 
 beat with their clean textures and breathtaking scenery.
  
  All of the monsters in the game are very well-designed and have lots of distinctive features. The 
 zombie children in the orphanage level, have old rags for clothes and limp around in a slow creepy 
 way and then burst into fire at random moments. Each of the levels has their own type of monsters 
 and demons and it really fits the level well. The Colosseum level has lots of different types of 
 gladiators and the Satanist Amusment Park has clowns with dynamite. It's nice touches like these 
 that give Painkiller battle out of Hell lots of flavor.
  
  On the downside though, the game is extremely short and can be finished in about four hours. Ten 
 levels does not last long at all and a short game like this does not imply much replay value. The 
 good news is that the game is only retailing for $20, so it's not all bad. Painkiller battle out 
 of hell's multiplayer has also been tweaked with new maps and new modes such as capture the flag. 
 While Painkiller battle out of Hell's capture the flag isn't totally remarkable compared to games 
 such as Battlefield 2 or Unreal Tournament 2004, it's still nice to see Painkiller branching it's 
 Quake kind of multiplayer a bit.
  
  The game's audio hasn't been messed with much, either. The musical score still has wailing guitars, 
 but the noise of these guitars is much quiter. If acid rock or heavy metal is your kind of thing, 
 then this might be a bad change. The weapons themselves sound pretty impressive, especially the 
 new machine gun which has almost a bigger blast then the shotgun! The voiceovers of the enemies 
 are pretty good and some of them have these snarling barks, combined with the brilliant textures 
 and lighting, that really sends a chill up your spine.
  
  Painkiller battle out of Hell has lots of different difficulties. If your new to FPS gaming, then 
 you will love the easy difficulty that recharges your health to 100 every time you come across 
 a new checkpoint. Beating the game at Nightmare difficulty will unlock the hardest difficulty, 
 which doesn't recharge your health at the checkpoints like the easiest difficulty does, or collecting 
 souls. There's also some extras to the game, such as if you do certain things like collect enough 
 gold, not take any damage, or find all the secrets in that level, you will be rewarded with tarot 
 cards, which will unlock cheats and even a bonus level. This bonus level actually isn't to impressive 
 and is actually more like a wimpy boss fight more than anything. The boss fights are still pretty 
 impressive, but you only have 1 real one at the end of the game, although there is quite a few 
 mini-boss fights throughout the game. 
  
  The mini boss fights you have might not be the biggest highlight of the game, but some of them 
 can be entertaining. One of them has you going up against a giant spider in a zombie infested town, 
 while another has you going up against a general in the zombie Stalingrad city. They aren't terribly 
 difficult and is actually a nice change of pace.
  
  If you collect enough souls from the monsters and demons you kill, you can then morph into a demon 
 for about 30 seconds. This will make you invincible and turn all enemies into red while your surroundings 
 will turn white. A few simple clicks will make every enemy die instantly. As you get close to morphing, 
 your screen will flash telling you your about to morph. You can't take any damage and it's really 
 satisfying to click your mouse in the direction of enemies and see them explode, no matter how 
 far away they are. It's a nice turn of events.
  
  Painkiller battle out of hell is the same with pretty much every expansion around. It isn't the 
 best shooter around thanks to the replay value and short campaign, but the different difficulty 
 settings and fun multiplayer makes this a game that fans of the original or Serious Sam games will 
 enjoy. It adds a lot more of what the original game had. So if you loved the first one, then this 
 one will blow you away. However if the originial didn't work for you, then this one won't change 
 your mind.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Quintapus
Rating: 0
Date: Dec 17, 2005 11:35 pm PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        Painkiller: Battle out of Hell 
 User Reviews for PC - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, 
 iTrkId, cTrkPrefix) { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; 
 } if (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  
 var newUri = cTrkPrefix + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 
 (parentId, iTrkId, iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem 
 =  if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  
 if (! parentElem) { return false; } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { 
 return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; 
 imgElem. height = '1';  } return true; }   ON   The Insider :  Harry 
 Potter Hitting Screens Early    //    
::::::

::::::
UserName: drswank
Rating: 7.4
Date: Oct 28, 2005 6:49 pm PT
Review:  Waaaay back in March of this year, before the Half-Lives and Dooms came a couple of first-person 
 shooters that impressed the pants off of all of us; namely Far Cry and Painkiller. While Far Cry 
 focused on realism and strategy, Painkiller was an over-the-top action fest that never paused for 
 a breath until the game ended. It featured some of the best physics ever seen in a game and some 
 of the coolest weapons weve ever laid our hands on. Here we are in December, and just as quickly 
 as the original Painkiller hit us, heres Battle Out of Hell, a ten level budget-priced expansion 
 to the original game. Those who have already gotten their Doom and Half-Life fixes while thinking 
 another worthy FPS wont be around until the next hardware cycle can now rejoice. 
  
  When we last left Daniel Garner, he had just defeated Lucifer in the heart of hell and found himself 
 surrounded by seemingly invincible hell spawn. After a close save by his traveling companion and 
 guide, Eve, Daniel now has to battle his way out of hell and its new king, Alistair. 
  
  Not to ruin a good thing, BOoH doesnt take too much time to warm you up as it thrusts you into 
 an orphanage filled with possessed children, nuns, and a fat guy with a meat cleaver. This is just 
 one of the few clever levels that make this expansion worth the $20 price tag. In addition to the 
 orphanage, youll also get to visit the Tim Burton-esque Loony Park featuring a great on rails 
 roller coaster ride and killer clowns, the war torn Leningrad with German zombies, and the zombie 
 and bug infested Dead City just to name a few. The aforementioned levels are better than most levels 
 featured in the original game and all feature some really creative scripting and effects that really 
 make the Painkiller engine shine. Unfortunately, the other levels featured in the expansion tend 
 to fall flat in terms of design. Theyre either not much fun to play or feature some maddening 
 jumping puzzles that seem like they dont belong in a Painkiller game. Add to this the long load 
 times in between your failed jumps and the experience can really put you off. One level is only 
 unlockable in the games nightmare mode which is a big room with a giant bone monster walking around. 
 Needless to say, going through the game again in nightmare mode after finishing insomnia isnt 
 much motivation just to experience this level, especially if you're wanting to brave the nigh impossible 
 level goals to pick up the new tarot cards. Something also uncanny to the franchise is the fact 
 that the underworld and stone pit chapters all take place in the same labyrinth of caves, which 
 for a game praised for its wide variety of environments and monsters, seems a little strange. 
 
  
  Aside from old school run-and-gun gameplay and crazy use of physics, Painkiller has also been praised 
 for some of the best weapons ever to be featured in a game of its kind. All of the old favorites 
 are here, from the stake / grenade gun that pins baddies to walls and ceilings, to the ultra-badass 
 rocket launcher / chain gun combination that always makes this reviewer a little stiff in some 
 areas. Youll go cuckoo pinning baddies to the walls and ceilings and blasting all the destructible 
 objects. In addition to the classics, BOoH gives us two new weapons; a sort of sniper rifle that 
 fires 2 rows of six stakes with an alternate fire of bouncing exploding balls and a machine gun 
 / flame thrower combination. Both new additions compliment the arsenal well and are totally useful 
 in certain situations. The sniper rifle is useful where youll commonly find yourself having to 
 snipe enemies from above and far away. The flamethrower is probably the best addition since itll 
 pour a great deal of pain on the hordes of enemies the game throws at you. 
  
  Speaking of enemies, BOoH has a potpourri of new enemies which are level specific and never repeated, 
 yet another staple of the franchise. Youll find yourself up against giant bone monsters, skeletons, 
 a myriad of undead creatures like zombies and skeletons, and what look like sword-wielding warriors 
 for the lack of a better description. The all new baddies definitely add some value to the expansion. 
 There are also a couple of new puzzle based boss battles that leave a memorable experience, namely 
 the battle with the final boss. Once you figure out what to do, it ultimately becomes a satisfying, 
 if not short experience. He can be quickly dispatched in a couple of minutes if you have the right 
 tarot cards at your disposal. 
  
  In addition to the expanded single player game, BOoH also gives us some more multiplayer modes 
 like capture the flag and last man standing, which essentially death match with a set number of 
 lives. Last man alive wins, simple enough. The problem is that the servers arent really full, 
 so finding a good full game is hard. 
  
  The in game visuals are about on par with those of Half-Life 2, if not one small, teeny-tiny notch 
 below. You cant help but think to yourself that the game in and of itself is beautiful. All the 
 environments have their own feel and look and you wont find the same texture used twice aside 
 from said underworld and stone pit stages. Some levels like Liningrad use so many effects at once 
 that it will bring a moderately powered system to tears. Kicking and screaming like a little kid. 
 I found myself having to turn everything down to medium after that level. The same cant be said 
 for the (luckily) few CG sequences that further the story. I had some gripes about the original 
 games CG, but the scenes featured in this incarnation of the game are deplorable. Daniel has been 
 redesigned from a veritable badass on wheels to a fattened up ventriloquist. Thats what 30+ years 
 in purgatory will do to you I suppose. Eve comes out worse as she found time to get herself some 
 clothes and lose any of her appealing features for this round. No Im not stating the fact that 
 she was nude was her only appealing feature, just about 65% of it. 
  
  From a sound standpoint, BOoH still holds up to doing a great job. The music tracks that play when 
 trouble is afoot doesnt rock as much (I wont be blasting this with my windows down) and is pretty 
 forgettable, but still sets the mood well  especially in Loony Park and Liningrad. None of the 
 enemies sounds are recycled. Youll get orphans speaking in tongues, moaning zombies, German zombie 
 soldiers, and crazy sounding clowns. They all come off well. Voice acting is passable this time 
 around despite the horrible CG that goes with it. Close your eyes and pretend it's a Painkiller 
 book on tape. The new guns also sound like they pack a punch, most notably the machine gun. Not 
 to ramble, the game sounds as pretty as it looks. 
  
  Its a marvel that an expansion made it out so quickly after the release of the original game, 
 let alone sporting some brand new levels, improved visuals, and a variety of new baddies to take 
 down is definitely an impressive feat. Still, one cant expect miracles out of everything. Don't 
 get me wrong, Battle Out of Hell is still a thrill ride; there are just a couple of really bad 
 intermissions breaking it up. Still, for the price theyre asking (Ive even heard its on sale 
 for $15 in some areas) its definitely got some bang for your buck. The expansion is enjoyable 
 as the pleasure of killing far outweighs the level of frustration. I only hope that jumping puzzles 
 don't become a staple for Painkiller 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctor_kaz
Rating: 0
Date: Jan 4, 2005 2:07 pm PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        Painkiller: Battle out of Hell 
 User Reviews for PC - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, 
 iTrkId, cTrkPrefix) { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; 
 } if (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  
 var newUri = cTrkPrefix + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 
 (parentId, iTrkId, iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem 
 =  if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  
 if (! parentElem) { return false; } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { 
 return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; 
 imgElem. height = '1';  } return true; }   ON   MovieTome :  How 
 bad was STREET FIGHTER?    //    
::::::

::::::
UserName: SadExchange
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 30, 2004 8:00 am PT
Review:  Back in April, Daniel Garner was involved in a car accident with his wife in which they both ended 
 up dying. From the outskirts of Heaven, he was given a choice to help Heaven out and take out the 
 army that Lucifer was amassing throughout Hell to take over Heaven or spend eternity with his wife, 
 not knowing if that eternity would last because of Lucifer. Well, Daniel chose the former and notoriously 
 battled his way deep down into the confines of Hell with the company of Eve herself, traveling 
 through memorable stages battling hundreds upon hundreds of foul demons to finally get to the ruler 
 of Hell himself, Lucifer. With a shotgun in his hand and a smirk on his face, Daniel brutally murdered 
 the Lord of Hell only to find out that Lucifers lead general in-command, Alastor, was wanting 
 to take command of the armies of Hell and overthrow Heaven. Daniel seemed to play into his little 
 plan. So, the player was left off with a cutscene of Daniel down in the deepest pits of Hell battling 
 off the demons that seemed never ending in the blazing terrain. Does that set a scene for an expansion 
 or what? Released on December 1, 2004, the developers of People Can Fly show us what a man out 
 for vengeance with nothing to lose will do to be with the woman he loves. What do you do if youre 
 deep in Hell with enemies surrounding your every exit? You ask yourself, What would Daniel Garner 
 do? and then you proceed to whip out any gun you have and start shooting to battle out of Hell.
 
  
  Without giving away too much of the story, but you have to admit the title speaks for itself, the 
 expansion takes off exactly where the first game left off following the cutscene of Daniel being 
 hounded by every foul demon imaginable. Heavens going to call on your services once again to break 
 up the amassing army that Alastor is building up, and while youre doing that, youll of course 
 want to find your way out of the. As the lone gunman for Heaven, youll be sent through ten different 
 stages, one only playable through Nightmare mode, and during these stages, youll see sights such 
 as a haunted orphanage, a crazy twisted park, a enormous coliseum, and many other demon-filled 
 levels as you go the only way you can, up. The original Painkiller had some decent level design 
 coming from new developers and Battle Out of Hell (BOoH) picks up where Painkiller left out. The 
 haunted orphanage, which some will say the concept was borrowed from Thief: Deadly Shadows, pays 
 homage to all those un-baptized kids who were demented every way possible during their short lives. 
 Youll deal with children who set themselves on fire and come running at you with knives. You must 
 give the kids some credit, anyone who lights themselves on fire and then comes after you, thats 
 determination, but it doesnt end there. These kids will still come after you after you blow their 
 head off. Lucifer would have been proud. Add some fireball wielding nuns and cooks with huge axes 
 thatll cleave your head clean from your shoulders and you have your excitement for the night.
 
  
  Even though the first few levels are new and innovative, the rest of the game shows sign of fill. 
 It seems as if the developers couldnt figure out anything new to do for the level design later 
 on in the levels such as the cool things they did for the first few levels, thus, the player begins 
 to witness a few ideas that seem rehashed or recycled from other levels. Although this doesnt 
 take away from the intensity of the game, because thats what this games all about, it may detract 
 some players from playing through again, thus limiting the replayability on the single player levels, 
 but theres always multiplayer which People Can Fly (PCF) have so graciously added two more types 
 of multiplayer games including a Capture the Flag game and a Last Man Standing style game. Both 
 add something new to the multiplayer and are fun to play for a quick fix against others online. 
 And although the expansions only 10 levels long, you wont burst through it too fast because of 
 the necessity of having to kill over a thousand demons while finding hidden items on your way out 
 of Hell. And for your effort, the developers added two weapons that add so much more to the game, 
 without disrupting the balance of the weapons. 
  
  The first gun is a sub-machinegun which packs a pretty strong punch compared to the machinegun 
 in the original Painkiller. The player will notice a difference of the rate of fire between clips. 
 The alternative fire for this weapon is a flamethrower which will definitely become useful in tight 
 corridors throughout Hells depths. And if that isnt enough, you have a more powerful boltgun, 
 which is able to fire five bolts at a time over a longer distance. The alternative gun for this 
 weapon is called heater. This little toy releases about ten little destructible grenades for 
 your enemies to wander into at inopportune times. Throughout the levels, youll find that you have 
 use for each weapon and its alternative fire whether its the situation or simply because youre 
 simply out of ammo. These weapons have also been made available in the original Painkiller. Coming 
 up out of Hell, ammo seems a little scarcer than it did than when you were going down the first 
 time. Strange.
  
  The graphics have been improved since the original game also. Adding more details to the Havok 
 Engine, PCF added features including Dynamic lights, bloom, shadows, and a feature called warp 
 effects which activates heat and haze distortion effects. These features are also incorporated 
 into the original game which is nice touch because it does add a lot to the feel and atmosphere 
 of the game, so players will be inclined to play through the original Painkiller again. It almost 
 seems as if the graphics engine has had a overhaul and youll appreciate the new features that 
 the developers have provided. New music has also been added to the expansion and it was done quite 
 well. Whether youre fighting off a horde of enemies or just traversing through the bubbling lake 
 outside the haunted orphanage, the music will give the game more atmosphere. Whats a game without 
 cheesy carnival music to blow clowns heads off too right? Much like the original Painkiller, the 
 cutscenes are done well except one feature, the lip movement. Youll understand why Im picky about 
 this feature when you try this game out. Nothing horrible, but with other games being able to lip-synch 
 every vocal movement nowadays, I just expected more.
  
  Overall, the new features including the two styles of multiplayer, the 2 weapons with alternative 
 firing modes, and the graphics additions are a great reason to the revisit the original Painkiller, 
 but you also have 10 more levels of pure intensity with your back to the wall, emptying all ammo 
 from you many guns, dispersing the armies of demons in your final attempt to rid Heavens threat 
 of an attack. Are you up to the challenge?
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
