-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Painkiller: Overdose
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/painkilleroverdose/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Pure, dumb shooting fun.
 Varied, surreal level settings and architecture.
 Horror-show monster lineup.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Exceptionally mindless (though whether that's a pro or con depends on your point of view).
 Regular visual slowdowns.
 Loooong load times.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov  2, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 6.5, 23 Review (s)
User Score: 6.9, 411 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: DreamCatcher Interactive
Developer: Mindware Studios
Genre: Fantasy First-Person...
Date:     Oct 26, 2007
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
This stand-alone Painkiller expansion is pure, stupid fun, despite slow loads and an utter lack 
 of innovation. 

  Although more than three years have passed since Painkiller first shot up hard drives, this deeply 
 unfashionable shooter series hasn't done any growing up since 2004. And thank the gods for that. 
 Not too many developers are bothering with old-school shooters anymore, so it's a real pleasure 
 to blast through such a gleefully stupid stand-alone expansion pack like Painkiller: Overdose. 
 All of the design attributes that made the original game as subtle as blunt-force trauma are back 
 for more, including monsters that seem to have escaped from an Iron Maiden album cover, as well 
 as slice-and-dice weapons that wouldn't be out of place in a torture chamber. Only some technical 
 difficulties and the nagging sense of dj vu interfere with the bloody good time on offer here. 

  If you've played the original Painkiller, you already know the score. Mindware Studios' Overdose 
 is pretty much a straight remake of People Can Fly's cult hit from the summer of 2004, with the 
 same sledgehammer mentality. Considering this expansion started life as a free mod project before 
 it got the attention of the bigwigs at DreamCatcher Games, it shouldn't be too surprising that 
 little new ground has been broken. You're now playing a half-angel, half-demon named Belial in 
 the three-chapter campaign instead of a dead guy looking for his wife, but this mystical creature 
 tosses out wisecracks like Serious Sam. Hell, he even sounds so much like Serious Sam that you 
 have to wonder if the developers hired the same actor to voice his lines. Regardless, there is 
 definitely some of the sincerest form of flattery going on here. Belial constantly snorts out cheesy 
 action-movie lines. He mutters "Tastes like chicken!" when he sucks down a soul, sings "Dum-dum-dum! 
 Another one bites the dust!" when he wastes an enemy, and even grumbles about "sand in my crotch" 
 when entering the Egyptian level.  

           Nero had no idea what he was springing on Rome when he set that fire.      

  All of 
 the weapons have been replaced with new models that mirror the old ones. For instance, the crowd-pleasing 
 stake gun, has been swapped out for a crossbow with the identical ability to staple enemies to 
 walls. All-new ghouls have been tapped to stand in for the old ghouls, although they aren't as 
 out-there as those that populated the original Painkiller. While the zombies, various types of 
 skeleton, robots, flaming demons, and the rest of this creepy crew look great, they're very predictable. 
 As soon as you get a look at the level setting, you know what's coming next.  

  Of course, predictability is sort of the point. As with every traditional first-person shooter 
 dating back to Wolfenstein 3D, the game gulps down an old formula. You walk into a room, valley, 
 or cave jazzed up with Halloween lighting effects. A door clangs shut behind you. Driving music 
 powers up. A few dozen creepy monsters pop in with a flash of brimstone. Mayhem commences. Repeat 
 this for a dozen hours or so. The end. The only template tweaks are holdovers from the original 
 Painkiller. Thus, the ability to kick off a demonic freak-out by swallowing enemy souls is back, 
 as is the tarot-card system that rewards the completion of extreme challenges (finishing a level 
 using only a wimpy weapon, for example) with cards that can be purchased to grant the buyer kick-ass 
 powers. Oh, there's one more change that shouldn't go unmentioned -- the developers have jettisoned 
 the spectacularly appropriate thrash-metal music for wimpy orchestral stuff and pounding techno. 
 Somewhere out there, Beavis and Butt-Head are not amused.  

  All that truly separates Overdose from other old-time shooters is a horror-movie groove that's 
 equal parts Clive Barker gruesomeness and Hammer Horror cheese. As with the first game, the levels 
 are a jumble. You're supposed to be fighting in purgatory, which is apparently a creative code 
 word for "maps featuring whatever the hell we think looks cool." So you get an ancient Rome burning 
 level populated by spooky gladiators, fire elementals, and giant cyclopes; a misty Japanese village 
 level with ninjas, kung-fu old guys with coolie hats, and murderous geishas; an asteroid space 
 base staffed by flying robots; some sort of Egyptian desert occupied by mummies, scarab beetles, 
 and what looks like the god Anubis flying around on a magic carpet; plus murky swampland featuring 
 giant tentacles that erupt from the ground and squid-faced Cthulhu rip-offs. Nothing here quite 
 approaches the twisted genius of the original game, which had electric lunatics in an insane asylum 
 and skeletal biker dudes hanging out by the Venetian canals. Only the hopping cyclopean demon arms 
 come close, but there aren't enough of them in the game to make an impact.  

  At least it all looks good. While the visuals aren't entirely up to contemporary standards (rest 
 easy, Source nuts) and there are only a couple of really knockout sections in each level, the overall 
 art design is incredible, save for the odd issue with messed-up lighting effects. The only problem 
 is that the now-dated Pain engine isn't up to snuff. Particle effects, such as smoke and sand, 
 cause it to chug, regularly dropping the game to single-digit frame rates. The developers have 
 compensated for this by slowing the whole game down when this happens, so battles remain playable 
 even when you seem to be trudging through quicksand. Still, even without any herky-jerky moments, 
 the game drops into slo-mo far too often.  

           Dried out mummy. Flaming torch. Hmmm, not hard to see that something could go horribly 
 wrong here.       

  Long load times are another huge annoyance. This was a major drawback of the original Painkiller, 
 and all the extra eye candy in Overdose seems to have made an already-bad problem much worse. Loading 
 even quick saves takes at least a full minute, which really gums up the works in such a pure arcade 
 shooter that is all about running and gunning. You can also get killed pretty regularly here, so 
 you can easily waste three or four minutes out of every 10 spent playing the game just sitting 
 back and twiddling your thumbs in front of a loading screen. This can be very irritating, but at 
 least it makes you extra desperate to avoid getting smoked.  

  It seems like a lot of people are desperate to avoid the multiplayer modes of play. Online battles 
 were never a strength of the original Painkiller, and they aren't a strong point here either, given 
 the fact that nobody seems to be playing the game over the Internet. Maps have once more been made 
 pretty tiny to compensate for the game engine's poor handling of large, open areas. This makes 
 it poorly suited for multiplayer mayhem because matches with more than four players turn into a 
 chaotic affair where you're constantly running into each other. Matches get tiresome quickly because 
 everything seems so random that there's little rhyme or reason to anything you do.  

  You might actually feel brain cells dying while playing Painkiller: Overdose, but even so, it's 
 hard to quibble with such pure, dumb fun. Even though long loads can cause more angst than the 
 multitudes of monsters trying to disembowel you, this old-fashioned shooter is a welcome respite 
 from the scripted, story-driven epics littering the FPS landscape these days (and a pleasant reminder 
 of the simple joy of shooting fiendish creeps in the face) .     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (15 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: ChristianKiss
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 9, 2009 4:53 pm PT
Review:  It's still a cool old-school First-Person Shooter game, but Overdose (2007, Mindware Studios) isn't 
 exactly a nice addition to the Painkiller series. It was originally made as a community mod for 
 the first game, but due to the financial support it received from DreamCatcher, Ovedose became 
 a full released game. As a mod, I would say it's great; however as a retail game, it needs more 
 polishment, especially on the PAIN Engine.
  
  I played the first Painkiller game and its expansion, and what I've noticed is a degradation on 
 the series. The original game was simply excellent, with an amazing background story and main character, 
 imaginative maps, balanced selection of weapons, well-designed enemies and, most important, solid 
 gameplay. The first expansion, although being a good addition, it's only a shadow of Painkiller. 
 The same character became horribly ugly, the storyline wasn't interesting, and some levels were 
 simply too annoying.
  
  In Overdose, those problems become even more evident, plus some more issues were added as well. 
 First of all, you play as a half-angel, half-demon creature named Belial. Here, this is basically 
 the "Evil vs. Really Evil" thing, and I believe this is the reason why most of the levels look 
 so... well, hellish. That red fog all over the place in some levels just shows the uninspired level 
 design of this game.
  
  There're new weapons as well, but most of them work exactly the same as the ones in the first Painkiller. 
 The Razor Cube, BoneGun, Rocket Laucher and so, are just equivalent versions of the original arsenal, 
 but with a different skin and sound effects. If I'm acquiring an add-on, I'm looking for something 
 actually new, not recycled stuff. And here I'm almost not considering the really new weapons, because 
 most of them are so useless and disappointing that it isn't even worth speaking about. No, let 
 me give an example: there is this cursed broken dagger, named Shadow Blade, which fires a ludicrously 
 slow and tiny projectile that doesn't seem to hit the target (especially if the enemy is sidestepping) , 
 although it's indeed effective when it hits. The Crossbow is also a bit odd, especially if you 
 trigger the secondary fire, which launches a bunch of exploding skulls that will probably hurt 
 more the player than the opponents.
  
  Mindware also didn't bother with the multiplayer mode, since it's still very basic and competitive-only. 
 Why they insist on the same mistake? A cooperative mode would be great to extend the life of the 
 game and add variety to the gameplay. However players will probably have to rely on only the single 
 player experience... again.
  
  The most annoying aspect of Overdose is the loading time. It takes more than ever to just quickload 
 your progress (actually more than a full minute) , which seems endless when you're at some of the 
 difficult parts of the game. There is a level somewhere at the end of the game, which I'll not 
 spoiler what kind of map is, which made me almost give up. Not only because it was so hard, but 
 especially due to the fact I had to wait a long minute to just retry and die again. I spent more 
 than 30 minutes just loading the progress until I got tired and restarted the map. Maybe it was 
 because I had chosen the "Nightmare" level of difficulty, which is a step above the default setting. 
 I've read that it's almost impossible to finish the game at the hardest level, called "Trauma", 
 although it was perfectly possible (and fun) playing the first Painkiller on this setting. 
  
  On the bright side, there are still a few maps which are definitely worth playing. These rare 
 exceptions are probably better than the best maps of the first expansion and as good as the top 
 levels of the original Painkiller. This gives a "thumbs up" to Overdose, and I found incredibly 
 fun killing the hellish pets at the Animal Farm level, for example. I would like to say more, but 
 I'll not spoiler anymore one of the few strong points of this game.
  
  Another great thing in Overdose is the graphics, which look a bit better than the first Painkiller 
 and its expansion. Too bad that most of the levels aren't so creative to enjoy this good looking 
 engine. But you'll still like the exaggerated amount of blood and special effects, such as explosions, 
 lightning, shadows etc.
  
  The soundtrack unfortunately doesn't match my taste, since I prefer the heavy metal style from 
 the first game. But this is a matter of opinion which isn't worth talking about. The sound effects, 
 on the other hand, are still great and you'll enjoy hearing the noise of your skeletal shotgun 
 firing against the bizarre monsters of Overdose.
  
  Lastly, I'm pleased that Mindware kept the old-school feel that's all about shooting legions of 
 enemies that attacks you from every possible side. In fact, they even spawn at places which you 
 would never be able to predict, which is sometimes very irritating. But in general, the astonishing 
 gameplay is nearly intact and this is a solid aspect in Overdose. If you think I'm being too harsh, 
 it's because I want Painkiller the way it was back in 2004, but with real innovations. Gamers shouldn't 
 accept every cool game as a masterpiece, because it would only make the developers to continuously 
 release flawed and uninspired games. I think the right thing to do is to point all the possible 
 negative aspects of the game, so future versions are made with a better presentation, which is 
 something I really wish particularly for the Painkiller series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: monowasp
Rating: 3
Date: Nov 25, 2008 12:58 am PT
Review:  I really enjoyed the first Painpiller, sorry, "Painkiller" game. It was fast-paced, no real story, 
 just FPS, nice graphics and some huge, huge foes that you could break down with your peashooter 
 or arrow-thrower. Back in the day when "Serious Sam" was recommended for it's "easy" gameplay, 
 "Painkiller" was just a similar game, where you could run around, shoot at things and go and eat 
 dinner and return for some more "action"...
  
  "Overdose" continues the same old game, however, as it is often in sequels, the graphics are really 
 terrible, the sound just OK; the leveldesign childish and almost ancient. You feel trapped in a 
 timewarp and wonder why the gamedesigner hasn't looked for inspiration elsewhere...
  
  + Nice DVD-cover...
  + Nice intro to the game...
  + Easy to uninstall...
  + Easy keyboard 
 movement + mouse
  
  - Well, most of the game actually...
  - The bad leveldesign...
  - Yet another game Evil Vs. Evil...
  
  I would not recommend it, there is much better games 
 out there... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: asafs16
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 19, 2008 12:02 pm PT
Review:  so, after i finished the first painkiller i decided to try the OVERDOSE of 2007...
  
  i was reading some of the reviews and i didnt expect for the best game but i was suprised the game 
 is fantastic!!
  
  but lets start over... at the few first levels you probably want to delete this game.. but believe 
 me i played this game for a long time (like a week, this game is long) and i was so amazed by the 
 fact that this game got only 7.0 this game deserves at least 8.5
  
  so first.. the graphics is not the best.. it looks the same as the first painkiller of 2004.. but 
 the visual effects of blood and fire are awesome!!
  
  the sounds also great like the first painkiller, the non-stop action is in this game also, and 
 what did GAMESPOT wrote? looong loading time? yeah right i have this game and when i played it 
 takes about 3 seconds to load..
  
  anyway.. the story is not so good.. not so good as first painkiller.. the main charter is ok i 
 guess.. and now lets talk about the weapong that PAINKILLER OVERDOSE has to offer..
  
  some of the weapons are the same like in first painkiller but with a little twist.. for exemple 
 the shotgun that was in first painkiller looks like a new type of shotgun from hell (the shotgun 
 has skulls) and more weapons just like that got the twist so you play with hell weapons and not 
 with orginal weapons from first painkiller.. some of the weapons in OVERDOSE are horrible i got 
 to say.. like the deamon sword.. you can throw the sword and control it and thats nice.. but you 
 cant hit with the sword and when you shoot skulls from the sword it looks aweful..
  
  the game has some uniq horror... lots and lots of monsters and galons of blood, so many blood just 
 makes you wanna keep playing..
  
  the booses in the game, some of them are ok but some of them really stinky.. like a boss DOG.. 
 DOG? a giant DOG it looks so dumb..
  
  so let me finish by saying, dont listen to every review in GAMESPOT.. becuase lots of reviews said 
 that this game is not good.. and i think that is wonderful..
  
  thats why im buying the PAINKILLER UNIVERSE PACK
  the game worth playing you should try it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brucius
Rating: 1
Date: Sep 11, 2008 4:41 am PT
Review:  I don't understand how can game creators nowadays spend so much time making game that in the end 
 turns out to be disastrous as this one is. Intro animation starts with so so neat story so u wonder 
 this might actually be good but as the game starts my first impression waswtf , is this a joke 
 ??? "... First few weapons not only look retarded but are retarded in performance, level design 
 is poor for today's standards and so is everything else in graphical department... I see many people 
 here giving it pretty high scores and i know tastes varies but common folks this game is just plain 
 failure in any corner you look... Don't get me wrong, i don't need good graphics to enjoy games, actually 
 my fave games of all times are games with lousy graphics but this is something i cant describe 
 but with words of disappointment... I pushed myself to play it, "maybe it will get better" , and 
 i did for around 45 minutes but i just couldn't take it no more so i uninstalled it... I can only 
 say this is worst fps i ever layed my hands on... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: InternetDJ
Rating: 1
Date: Feb 18, 2009 11:19 am PT
Review:  To say that this Game is not even worth buying would be an understatement. While I did enjoy the 
 first painkiller, this Game is just all wrong. This was actually a Gaming Mod at first? (According 
 to friends) , I really would have hated to see what that was like. While the graphics are Ok, the 
 characters are silly, and there is no plot. All you do is go through different levels collecting 
 ammo, killing creatures, and moving Foreward (while I do enjoy Games that offer this, this is just 
 tedious in Overdose, and boring) . The main character also says the same thing in every level. There's 
 also no cutscenes, no anything. This is like a bad Disney and Serious Sam adventure all wrapped 
 into one (not that Serious Sam was a bad game, mind you) . While I don't want it to sound like all 
 my reviews here will be bad, I just had to say this about this one. Save your money for something 
 far better, as this one just does not cut it. Thanks for reading. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WonderBread88
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 22, 2008 10:24 pm PT
Review:  Storyline: 7 - Dark, twisted storyline that is easy to follow and honestly somewhat entertaining.
 
  
  Graphics/Physics: 7 - Nothing new or different from the original other than weapons and enemies 
 which were well concepted. Yay for quality gore though.
  
  Sound: 8 - Somewhat similar to Serious Sam or Duke Nukem sound when it comes to the main character 
 making witty comments. Well done sound quality to both cut-scenes and game-play.
  
  Environment/Maps: 5 - Back tracking in maps to find your goal is very annoying, on the other hand 
 the environment stays true to the original painkiller quality. Somewhat overshadowed or dark on 
 maps.
  
  Game Engine/Scripting: 6 - Too many slow loading screens gets irritating very quickly. Games engine 
 is no different from the original, but it would make sense to have fixed the long loading waits. 
 Much more difficult fighting even on the lower difficulty settings.
  
  Interface: 6.5 - Duel modes for every weapon, unfortunately weapons are no where near as cool and 
 useful as the original painkiller. Boring Menu, cool loading screens though.
  -----------------------------------------------
  
  Overall: 6.5 - Good for a published mod. 
 Poor compared to the original. Simply doesn't meet the expectations from the first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bulldawg8879
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 17, 2008 6:48 pm PT
Review:  Painkiller Overdose
  This being released way after the original Painkiller game came out it makes you wonder why they 
 really did bring it out especially since it came out around Christmas with no way to compete with 
 the other games coming out.. The game is a Mod of Painkiller that was transferred to retail.. The 
 game is alot of fun and is enjoyable throughout but theres really not much new and the games weapons 
 are just a cosmetic change.. This game is bound to become really cheap soon so when that happens 
 its definatley worth a try.. The graphics still hold up pretty well and the sound effects as well.. 
 The music is downgraded somewhat to a just ambient most of the  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EnzoMatrixOC
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 1, 2008 7:36 pm PT
Review:  Like the title says, this installment of the Painkiller franchise is bound to make ID software 
 and Valve some real competition for the mantle of; 'King of the FPS'. In this sequel to the CPL 
 tournament title, Painkiller & PK Battle Out of Hell, Dreamcatcher has succeeded in keeping alive 
 (and well) one of my favorite First Person Shooters. In so many FPS games, there is an urge to 
 'retool' the game or change the setting of the franchise in sequels; Quake to Quake 2 to Quake 
 3 comes to mind first. For many FPS gamers this trend leaves us 'flat' and wanting for something 
 familiar (but new) to vent our day-to-day aggressions. I have a feeling, most of the time; these 
 changes in sequels are more the result of 'focus groups', than input by the gamers that master 
 these titles. 
  Dreamcatcher has resisted the urge to improve on perfection and turned out another Painkiller in 
 the spirit of its first two titles in this franchise. "Kudos" to Dreamcatcher for sticking with 
 what works, and what we 'hard core' FPS players liked the first time. Seriously, how can a developer 
 improve on a Cyberathalete Professional League tournament title without staying with what made 
 it the pros pick the first time around? You will find the; interface, graphics engine, weapons, 
 settings, and controls are as familiar as your favorite sweatshirt but new like the one you got 
 for Christmas. 
  The biggest change is the plot and 'where' you are sent to fight evil in this title. This time 
 around you are a Demon/Angel that is fighting his way to pay Satan back for thousands of years 
 of imprisonment in Purgatory. On the way you get to blow away; Civil War vets, the familiar ghouls 
 and cadavers and some Demon bosses that top those in the first two installments and make the Bosses 
 in Doom 3 and Quake 4 look like 'Children of the Corn' rejects. There is no 'Love Story' here, 
 so lost/dead wife to reunite with just bloody vengeance and retribution to be doled out with your 
 hands. 
  The game play is intense and, at times, frantic enough to get the most sedentary player's heart 
 rate to race. The taunts and 'One Liners' are better than the first two titles and (so far) you 
 do not have to kill any children to finish a level (or babies for that matter) . The engine has, 
 obviously, received some attention because it runs much smoother than the previous PKs but the 
 graphics have not suffered in the process. So, if you enjoyed the original Painkiller and/or Battle 
 Out of Hell you will want to be sure to pick this title up and add it to your collection (for $20 
 you just can't go wrong) but don't be surprised if you find yourself spending much more time hunting 
 down Satan than you ever imagined. I can only hope that the CPL picks this title up for competition, 
 like they did PK and BOOH, too. Simply a 'Must Have' for any FPS devotee.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: VercettiTommyy
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 19, 2007 4:02 am PT
Review:  Painkiller was a great game, especially when you were angry & felt like killing thoulsands of monsters 
 & killing the devil himself... Although not better than Serious Sam, Painkiller Heaven's Got a Hitman 
 & Battle Out of Hell were great games. Now comes Overdose.
  It's basicly the same game, same rules. Even the same graphics, but with some more cool effect, so 
 its visual side is decent. The sound is not that good: of course, cool effects & funny voice-acting 
 (Beliar tries to copy Serious Sam) , but the rock/heavy metal sountheme is replaced by some other 
 tracks that I can't remember, because they don't go well here.
  You're Beliar, a half demon, half angel who, again, kills monsters & bosses. Well, all the weapons are 
 new ones, but made exactly after the old ones. They're nice, but I miss the ice shotgun (here is 
 a bone shotgun that turns monsters into rock) & stake-thrower (here is a crossbow) . The monsters are 
 a lot, cool & have a lot of blood inside them, but the boss battles are poorly realised.
  But some genuine levels, as Japanese Massacre (C1, L2) & Riot (C2, L1) were so great that I'll remember 
 them forever. Riot perfectly illustrates one: cars on fire ,policeman batteling gangs of graffitiers, blood 
 on streets, the old rockers with Tommy Gun-s, etc. The level design is also much better than ever 
 before.
  In conclusion, buy Painkiller Overdose. It's short, but very bloody & funny ; it's a unique experience...& 
 better than the previous Painkillers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lorddessan91
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 7, 2007 10:49 pm PT
Review:  Noooooooooooo, why... the game were in the "Painkiller" series where so good, why they had change 
 all this, the game isn't scary anymore, it's so dumb and nasty, the graphics are may be well done, the 
 sound track may be good, but the gameplay is nothing I've never seen... Yes the first two "Painkiller"-s 
 were also nothing new, but they had a charm, I"ve played them with love, but that's game is just dumb... the 
 story is weak... but there's one great thing: The tones of enemies you'll encounter... yes there are 
 plenty of enemies again, but it's only shooting, there are no surprises, no interesting moments, no 
 key moments and after the first two games that's just not right... It's like Serious Sam 2 going 
 from point A to point B and that's it... that stupid  
 again, and again, but if someone needs something like a pure action and only shooting that game will 
 probably be his favourite 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jadyre
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 29, 2007 8:01 pm PT
Review:  I had fun with this one. I loved painkiller and BOOH. I had just finished EP2 and needed a diversion 
 before Crysis so I picked this up. It kept me shooting for hours. Sometimes I just like to go back 
 to the old days I guess.
  
  Visuals are on par with the originals. Sound is the same (although I miss the metal music) . Your 
 character is a little more sarcastic than the last. i was kind of hoping we would get to see Daniel 
 kick some more butt it this but eh.
  
  If you're looking for an epic go see Beowulf at the theater. If you're looking for pure shooting 
 fun without thinking then here you go.
  
  I had no crashes, no video glitches, no hiccups or slow downs.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 195948
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 28, 2007 9:41 am PT
Review:  The single player maps are cool but have just a bit of a funky feel to them. Yeah I will agree, 
 it is a bit mindless. But a great stress reliever! However the online play maps are very cool and 
 that is where the greatness of the game come in. Weapons placement is very good, armor p/u placement 
 is also very good, and the actual play of the game is superb! Of all the games that I have played 
 online this is the only one that seems to be able to hold my attention for any lenght of time. 
 The re are also quite a few killer extra online maps available at www. mexicanpainkiller. com. Very 
 easy to install, very cool graphics, way cool soundtracks, and great gameplay! I play as the "Mad 
 Hungarian" so come see sometime. Grrrr! Let us rumble!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Geminidevine
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 22, 2007 7:53 am PT
Review:  I just brought Painkiller Overdose last night but before i opened the game to play it i had to 
 read the reviews. I own the original Painkiller along with the expansion pack (Battle out of Hell) . 
 Painkiller Overdose is just an add-on to my collection. 7.0 (Good) rating, don't bode too well 
 for me. That rating is horrible (Overdose) didn't even get a 8.0. Long load times, thats what plagued 
 the original (Painkiller) & (Battle out of Hell) . My PC has far superior power to run this game 
 and my (HDD) is too fast for a game that has terrible load times. It's not like i am not happy 
 with my purchase but i do have my doubts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reddevilofhell
Rating: 4
Date: Nov 8, 2007 3:52 pm PT
Review:  UNLESS you lunatically love a dumba$$ shooter and the PAINKILLER series, or do not have a high 
 end computer for games like COD4 or Gears of War, its better if you stay away from this game. And 
 next time you go to the game shop, just ignore this PAIN filled game.
  
  Apart from a little bit of visuals effects, this game has nothing to give or hold your attention.
 
  
  if they could release a PG13 version of this game, maybe the kids around the block could have a 
 go on it. But it is definitely not for the gamers of this generation.
  
  Stupid storyline, worthless gameplay and the tremendous amount of time wasted in waiting for each 
 level to load, makes you really frustrated and leads you to say the FOUR LETTER WORD quite often.
 
  
  This will go down in the history of the surely-not-to-have-games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Warpld
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 7, 2007 7:46 am PT
Review:  You know how sometimes something is just much more than the sum of its parts? That's what Dreamcatcher 
 managed to do with its original Painkiller and suplemented it later with its magnificent expansion 
 Battle Out of Hell. The developers had a stupid story, mixed with insane levels and unbelievable 
 weapons, as well as old school run 'n' gun and there they had a knocker. Me personally, hunting 
 tarot cards on Trauma was my insomnia.
  
  Now comes the third installment in the series, however, this time Dreamcatcher couldn't catch that 
 unfathomable dream that made the first game unforgetable. In fact they haven't even tried as they 
 were only supervisors of the project. Well, where were they looking...? Overdose is everything 
 that the original Painkiller was but it has no soul.
  
  Start from the uninspired level design. Most levels are plain dull - you walk from one square room 
 to another, monsters spawn, you shoot them, the door opens, repeat. Only the textures change. And 
 the worst level by far is the very first one. Very bad first impression of the game... Some levels 
 like the Studios and the Disney-like haunted forest are fun, but they don't even come close to 
 pure art like The Monastery, the soviet level from Battle out of Hell, or the best level ever - 
 the frozen armageddon at the end of the original Painkiller.
  
  Next come weapons. Well, the original Painkiller had great original and what's most important, 
 effective weapons. If those in Overdose were seen for the first time, they would have been a dime, 
 however, they were supposed to be new, but most of them are just skins for the old weapons - the 
 Razorcube plays exactly like the Painkiller gun. So does the Bonegun which is in fact the Shotgun. 
 The Rocket Launcher / Chaingun thing is back again but looking different. There is an acid gun 
 which plays like the Stake Gun and a Crossbow which is... again like the Stake Gun!!!! The list 
 goes on.
  
  As I mentioned the soviet level above I remembered - well, the heavy soundtrack is gone. Too bad...
 
  
  And since I started discussing technical aspects, graphics haven't changed one bit since 2004. 
 Yet, the game manages to have horrific loading times. And you might see those often, especially 
 if you try to play on Trauma, because the game is somewhat harder than the original Painkiller.
 
  
  On the other hand boss battles are easier and uninteresting, uninspired just like the levels.
 
  
  Actually, for me, the worst downfall of Overdose is that the first half of the game utterly lacks 
 what's in my opinion the salt and the pepper of Painkiller - secrets and holy items. You won't 
 need the latter though, because I also found Tarot cards useless in this game. They hardly affect 
 gameplay. What is more, most Tarot cards are old but the new ones are just stupid. A card that 
 gives you +5 max health!? And it costs 1000 gold to place it!?!?!? The one that gives you 20 armour 
 at the start of each level is a bit more useful but it costs 1800 gold!!!?!?? And speaking of Tarot 
 cards, objectives to get them are generally easy. Nothing like the insane objectives from Battle 
 out of Hell which yielded terrific cards and more importantly, great satisfaction.
  
  In fact the only positive thing I can think of, is that there are new enemies who look just as 
 crazy as before. Everything else is just mediocre. Just like this expansion pack. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
