-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Painkiller
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/painkiller/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr  9, 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.5
Critic Score: 8.1, 71 Review (s)
User Score: 8.5, 3,070 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: DreamCatcher Interactive
Developer: People Can Fly
Genre: Fantasy First-Person...
Date:     Apr 12, 2004 &raquo;  
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Painkiller is a simple first-person shooter at heart, but it's very well-put-together and does what 
 it does exceedingly well. 

  First-person shooters have been one of PC gaming's preeminent genres for about 10 years now, and 
 those who've kept up with it over the years know that, for one thing, these games have gotten a 
 lot more complicated. Whereas the early games that defined the genre gave you no incentive other 
 than to blast your way from one end of a level to the other -- or they had you blasting any other 
 player that moved, in the case of their multiplayer modes -- today's most-popular shooters feature 
 complex team-based modes, deep narratives, and Hollywood-style trappings. Not Painkiller. This 
 game is a throwback to the older classics. Specifically, it's a throwback to id Software's Quake, 
 whose multiplayer deathmatch mode popularized an aggressively fast-paced style of play. Painkiller 
 is a simple game at heart, but it's very well-put-together and does what it does exceedingly well. 
 That is, it offers up lots of spectacularly visceral, bloody, in-your-face action through its numerous, 
 action-packed single-player levels. And it looks beautiful, it sounds great, and it's got a pretty 
 good old-school multiplayer deathmatch mode, for good measure. If you enjoyed the genre's pre-Half-Life 
 classics or more-recent arcade shooters like Serious Sam, then you'll love Painkiller.  

          Painkiller is a throwback to the days when first-person shooters were all about action -- and 
 it's a great throwback, at that.     

  Painkiller does have a plot, which isn't evident and doesn't unfold at all during the actual levels, 
 but it's presented in fairly unimpressive and surprisingly drawn-out cutscenes in between the game's 
 five chapters. After dying in a car accident, Daniel Garner finds himself in purgatory, which is 
 somewhere between heaven and hell. He's given a choice that's not much of a choice at all: The 
 forces of hell are planning to wage war on heaven, and Garner must single-handedly head them off 
 at the pass, while also setting his sights on the four generals of Lucifer's army. So Dan takes 
 the job -- lucky you. This means you get to kill lots and lots of monsters using some overpowered 
 weapons, and, at the end of each chapter, you'll square off against a huge and towering boss monster. 

  Painkiller's two-dozen single-player levels offer no nonsense. Each level is self-contained and 
 starts you off with full health and a limited amount of ammunition. Progress through the stages 
 is basically linear, and an onscreen compass needle is there to (usually) always point you to where 
 the enemies are or to where the next checkpoint is. What happens is, enemies materialize in your 
 vicinity, some heavy metal music starts playing, and you start shooting -- often while desperately 
 trying to run away from your savage foes. Once the coast is clear, you can catch your breath, cross 
 the next checkpoint, automatically regain all your health (at the default difficulty) , and then 
 repeat the process. This isn't complicated stuff -- but that's not a bad thing at all.  

          The action is fast, bloody, and intense. Just like any good shooter should be.     

 
  This isn't the depiction of hell or purgatory that you might expect. Rather than have levels consisting 
 of all flames, demons, and caverns, Painkiller consists of a wide variety of different themes. 
 As a result, the game may have you blasting zombies and lunatic freaks in a haunted insane asylum 
 in one level, battling ninjas and samurai in an opera house in another, gunning down weird biker-thugs 
 in industrial complexes in the next, and then taking on knights and mad monks in a medieval castle 
 after that. Remarkably, the eclectic variety of settings somehow ends up having a cohesive feel 
 to it, and the variety itself is definitely to the game's credit. Though not all the game's enemies 
 behave differently, it's great to encounter different types of foes in almost every stage, and 
 the game just does a good job of keeping you guessing as to what sort of weird location you'll 
 find yourself in next.  

  There are only five weapons in Painkiller, although each one has a completely different alternate 
 firing mode, and each one is useful, so it's really closer to 10. For example, one of the weapons 
 is both a rocket launcher  and  a chaingun, thus making it quite possibly the most versatile and 
 powerful gun in first-person-shooter history. Most of the weapons also have a unique effect for 
 when you combine the primary and alternate firing modes. For instance, the combination double-barreled 
 shotgun/freeze ray can be used to immobilize and then shatter enemies. You never need to manually 
 reload, and, like in the original Quake and other, older shooters, there isn't even an animation 
 for weapon-switching. One gun just vanishes, and the next one appears, allowing you to readily 
 cycle through all your weapons as needed, even in the middle of a hectic battle. Also, due to the 
 generous use of checkpoints, you pretty much never even need to stop to quicksave, though you can 
 do so if you wish. In the end, it's not difficult to blast through most any of the game's levels 
 in 20 minutes or fewer. It's still a good amount of single-player content overall.     

  Ironically, despite the straightforwardness of the core action, the game's bosses are all quite 
 tricky and are difficult to defeat. Not only are they big and scary, but you'll need to find their 
 weak points, which isn't easy. The bosses are impressively huge and really aren't as unfair to 
 fight as they might initially seem, so they make for great set pieces in between multiple levels 
 of manic action. Unless you reached the end of Serious Sam, it's safe to say you've never seen 
 first-person shooter bosses as big and impressive as these.  

          Impressive and realistic physics result in some spectacular, unscripted moments and help 
 lend replay value to the game's single-player levels.     

  The thing about Painkiller is that its combat just has a great feel to it. And if a shooter is 
 going to accomplish one and only one task, this is the one to nail down. Most notably, Painkiller 
 features the most-impressive use of realistic physics in a game to date. Some other recent games 
 have begun incorporating physics, which results in enemies that can be sent flying backward when 
 hit, in addition to boxes and barrels that can be knocked around accordingly. However, Painkiller 
 does all this better. Background objects explode when hit, sending shards of debris every which 
 way or causing major chain reactions. Enemies get flung far and wide from the explosive blasts 
 of your rocket launcher. The game's most memorable weapon, the stakegun, fires slow-loading, deadly 
 wooden stakes that slam into their victims with intense force, often pinning them to nearby walls 
 where they'll hang limply -- dead.  

  Enemies don't just flop around like rag dolls, though. A close-range shotgun blast or close contact 
 with an explosive (say, a convenient stack of exploding barrels) will cause your foes to erupt 
 in a shower of smoldering, bloody parts, which is an effect that's as grisly as it is satisfying. 
 Another great touch is that enemies will even let go of their weapons when hit. You'll be thrilled 
 to blow up huge bunches of bad guys to watch as all their guns or swords blast off into the distance, 
 while large pools of gore, all littered with bullet holes and scorched earth, mark your passing. 
 Body counts rack up high. The game's enemies aren't very complicated to fight, but since you'll 
 routinely take on both fast-moving close-combat foes and ranged attackers at the same time, the 
 action can be pretty tactical and consistently intense. But again, above all, it's gratifying. 

  Painkiller does have a few twists. A few moments after enemies are killed, they disappear in a 
 puff of smoke and leave behind a swirling green "soul," which you can collect to regain just a 
 single point of health (some enemies leave behind bad souls that actually hurt you) . Still, with 
 body counts like these, the extra health can add up. More importantly, after picking up enough 
 souls, you'll briefly and automatically transform into a fast-moving, invincible demon that can 
 devastate any enemies in the vicinity. It's a nice effect, because the scenery all turns black 
 and white, but enemies stand out in blood red.  

  Furthermore, you'll collect coins in each level, which can be found as you destroy treasure chests 
 or other such objects, and these can be used to select what are called "black tarot cards" before 
 each level. These cards must first be unlocked by fulfilling certain conditions in each level (say, 
 by only using a particular weapon, killing every single foe, or collecting a certain number of 
 souls) . Basically, they grant certain bonuses that can give you the edge in the next level. The 
 effects stack, too. So, for instance, you can combine card effects that cause you to move ultrafast 
 with card effects that cause everything else to slow down. This results in some Max Payne-style 
 bullet time. Yet while the black tarot feature is interesting, it's also somewhat extraneous, so 
 it can safely be ignored if you want to play Painkiller in its purest form.  

          If you played the original Quake, you'll feel dj vu when you try Painkiller's 
 multiplayer mode.     

  Speaking of pure... Multiplayer Painkiller is a throwback to the days of the original Quake. Indeed, 
 the fast-moving pace and the rapid-fire, no-reload feel of all the weapons seem like they were 
 lifted straight from id Software's game. Painkiller's multiplayer mode works fine and, thankfully, 
 features a built-in server browser (unlike Quake) , thus allowing you to jump into an online match. 
 However, modes of play are limited to variations on deathmatching, and there's just a small selection 
 of maps, most of which start to feel crowded with only around eight players in them, though 16-player 
 games are possible. There's a free-for-all mode, a team deathmatch mode, and a few others: The 
 best is called "voosh," and in it, all players are automatically equipped with the same weapon 
 and unlimited ammo... but only for a short period of time, at which point they randomly get a new 
 weapon. Meanwhile, the "light bearer" mode is like a bloody variation on the game of tag. There's 
 a quad-damage power-up somewhere in the level, and once someone picks it up, the effects don't 
 wear off, so that player gets to go on a rampage. Presumably, other players should concentrate 
 on taking the overpowered player out so that they can relieve his or her corpse of the power-up 
 to carry on the legacy.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (145 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: topsemag55
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 17, 2009 10:58 pm PT
Review:  Painkiller is labeled by the critics as old-school, a simple FPS that's well put together and does 
 the job well. I think the critics missed quite a few highly-noticeable facts about this game.
 
  
  Painkiller is almost at its sixth birthday, yet it was actually ahead of its time: and smashed 
 every other FPS available at the time. The developers pulled out all of the stops for this project.
 
  
  Painkiller puts your hardware into high gear before you even get to the opening level. nVidia-specific 
 graphics are coded into the core programming, and the game earned the coveted TWIMTBP rating from 
 nVidia. Just about every conceivable graphics tweak available in 2004 was included in Painkiller. 
 The devs also took great pains with the soundtrack, as well as SoundBlaster sound cards. The music 
 is perfect for the battle areas.
  
  Painkiller provides you with a unique animation with the nVidia Logo, and I believe it might very 
 well be the only game to ever utilize the esteemed graphics symbol with game animation. Once the 
 Logo appears on-screen, a skeleton strolls onto the scene - you fire stakes at it - they pierce 
 the Logo - and the skeleton does a very memorable exit (to put it lightly) .
  
  This FPS is not just a ho-hum "shoot-everything-that-moves" either. You have a few well-engineered 
 cutscenes that provide some background and give this shooter a good storyline.
  
  Another interesting fact is that the developers chose the Havok physics engine: the very same engine 
 that would power Oblivion two years later. This engine adds a good bit of realism into the game: 
 ragdoll physics on NPCs are well-executed, inanimate objects explode satifyingly. The available 
 weapons have a good feel to them, and none of them are weak.
  
  I wish I had taken notice of Painkiller when it was released, but it's not a dated game even six 
 years later. Well worth the money, and fun to boot. Definitely a win-win, hands-down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: figsnake12
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 23, 2009 8:27 am PT
Review:  What do you do in an fps? Defend posts, escort good guys, find keys  urgh. When did first person 
 shooters stop being about the shooting and start revolving around menial tasks? I'll never forget 
 all the stuff I had to fix in quake 4 before I Could go down one ruddy lift  and Quake used to 
 be about brutal, simplistic killing fun (eat your heart out Jack Thompson) . Is there no release 
 from this endless list of fps chores?
  
  Painkiller is the modern revival of old school shooters like the earlier Quake or Doom games. It 
 follows the story (since when does an fps need a story?) of some guy, who ends up in some sort 
 middle ground between heaven and hell after his wife and himself are killed in a car crash. Basically 
 he runs around killing the generals of Satan's army so he can redeem himself for his apparent sins 
 and finally be allowed into heaven. Very convenient, that an unstoppable evil-killing machine happens 
 to get stuck in Purgatory (the world between heaven and hell) . The story only pops up in cutscenes, 
 so you can just skip the cinematics and pretend it isn't there (Note: this trick works on bank 
 balances too) . 
  
  And so we come onto gameplay, the crowning aspect of any good fps. Gameplay is affected by a number 
 of things. 
  
  So where do I start? Ah yes, graphics. Graphics don't normally get a mention because all same-generation 
 games tend to have very similar graphics. Painkillers graphics get a mention because the old school 
 fps style has never enjoyed 6th era graphics. The game looks beautiful, especially considering 
 the massive scale on which some battles are executed (fighting a 100 meter tall general, for example) . 
 
  
  Secondly come to the weapons. Again, normally these wouldn't warrant a mention because the traditional 
 pistol, machine gun, shotgun .. lineup is something we'd rather forget. Painkiller has a setup 
 of highly imaginative weapons, each one of which has two firing modes, like the railgun-rocket 
 launcher, or the shotgun-freezer. These are not only brilliantly original, but very well designed 
 and paired. For example; the shotgun-freezer allows you to freeze your enemies, and then blast 
 them into a million pieces with the shotgun. As much as I love the weapons, there are only 5 of 
 them, so combat can get a little repetitive. 
  
  Thirdly up is variation. The enemies and locations in the game are also very original and beautifully 
 designed. They offer a refreshing alternate, similarly to how the weapons do. However, there is 
 a reason why there are so many varying types of enemy. The combat is basically just you killing 
 droves of enemies, finally killing them all and repeating the exercise again in the next room. 
 It would be near impossible to avoid this getting repetitive. 
  
  Fourthly is the style. Like previously mentioned, Painkiller focuses on old-school,
  arcade-style 
 gameplay. You can earn cards to give yourself extra powers by collecting souls which vacate the 
 dearly departed, or go for some form of pointless high score by collecting all the gold or souls 
 on the levels. Very arcade, but since the game isn't an actual arcade title trying to bully you 
 out of coins this persistent "high score" rubbish seems tiring. 
  
  Last of all is the physics engine. The game uses the Havoc 2.0 engine which the box tells me is 
 "the worlds most advanced physics engine". I think I've come across it before, I just thought it 
 was a big programming mess instead of an attempt at a physics engine. Calling itself "the worlds 
 most advanced physics engine" while half-life's source engine is around sounds ridiculous, but 
 shooting a guy at point-blank range with a shotgun sends him flying in alternate directions, so 
 it serves it's purpose well. 
  
  So what's my verdict? Well it's well made, original and (in short-ish doses) fun. There just isn't 
 enough to the game to recommend it alongside titles like Call of Duty or Half-Life2, but it isn't 
 trying to compete in that market. This isn't a complex, modern fps. This is just a bit of mindless 
 fun, a very well designed bit of mindless fun, but mindless fun nonetheless. It's a fantastic game 
 for what it is; just don't expect it to not get boring after a few hours. But hey, it's fun, original 
 and imaginative  and it retails online from a few GBP upwards, so you can't fault the price. I 
 don't expect a cheeseburger to put my life back on track, so don't expect Painkiller to compete 
 with COD4. 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Private-Ryan
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 9, 2009 2:36 am PT
Review:  Painkiller is a wicked thrill ride with lots of enemies, violence and HUGE bosses. Pure fps fun!
 
  
  The good:
  
  Painkiller features the best physic engine I have ever seen. Every lob of a grenade ends up in 
 a violent explosion with bloody bodies and limbs hitting the walls and bouncing around everywhere. 
 Every blast from a shotgun either ends up with the enemy being obliterated into a bloody mess of 
 bearly recognisible waste, or them flying into a wall and thumping on the floor oozing with dark 
 blood. If you want to see the physics engine at its best then bring out the funnest weapon in the 
 game, "the painkiller", a minature hand held lawn mower that cuts flesh like a knife through butter. 
 Everytime you enter a battle with this bad boy your eyes will behold a gruesome sight of blood 
 spurting on the screen, limbs torn from bodies and hurled into walls, head decapitations, bodie 
 mutilations, guts and insides spilled on the ground and once you've finally killed all the enemies 
 the place where you once fought will be covered and I mean COVERED in thick blood. The violence 
 and the physics engine compliment each other like butter on bread, it is perfect!
  
  The enemies in painkiller are always freakish looking mutant-like demons that have powerful and 
 mighty attacks. The imagination with the enemies is legendary, very well designed and fun to look 
 at. You'll be fighting vampires, zombies, witches, skeletons and lots and lots of unnameable things, 
 such as some weird electric tentacle monster, a crazy psycho spider wearing a mask that leaps out 
 at you and a samurai warrior that can cast fire balls. Most of the enemies are original and their 
 attacks are sometimes difficult to dodge. Some of the attacks from the enemies include, fireballs, 
 nailguns, molotov cocktails, suicide explosions, biting, lightning bolts and leaving poison gases 
 behind from their weapons. So painkiller offers impressive enemies with interesting and unique 
 attacks.
  
  The bosses are one of the best features of painkiller, being ridiculously big and almost impossible 
 to beat on the hardest difficulty. Here is a list of all the bosses you face in painkiller:
  
  The necrogiant: This boss is the biggest boss I have seen in gaming history, his arms can easily 
 cover the whole battlefield and send you flying into a wall. If he steps on you he deals out some 
 serious damage. Once you piss him off enough he breaks his chains wrapped around him and can summon 
 a tornado that sucks you up and throws you up into the air, ending up with you crashing down and 
 dying on the ground. Straight after he's finished his tornado summoning he spits large fireballs 
 in the air, about 5 or 6 of them. They are fairly easy to dodge but getting the hell out of the 
 way couldn't hurt. Sometimes I think I can dodge them but forget how big they actually are, I always 
 end up being crushed or my ass being burnt to a crisp. So running from the target zone is mandatory, 
 don't play dodgeball. The necrogiant's last attack is summoning about 10 spikes out of the ground 
 that impale you unless you run for your life. 
  
  The swamp monster: This boss isn't too big but he is very powerful, he can throw giant gas bubbles 
 at you that explode on impact. Don't try to dodge them, shoot them with your gun so the explosion 
 doesn't happen right in front of your face. He can summon these weird worms out of the swamp that 
 bash down on you, they are pretty easy to dodge. This boss is the easiest enemy to kill out of 
 the whole game.
  
  The Guardian: This boss is the second easiest enemy you fight next to the swamp monster. He only 
 has one attack but it is extremely powerful. He has a MASSIVE hammer that he slams on the ground, 
 if you jump in time you will make it over the tremors that send you flying in the air and crash 
 land you to your death. So always be on the watch for he's hammer attack. If he steps on you, your 
 probably going to die unless your very lucky. His hammer also allows him to regenerate his health 
 after a while which gets heaps frustrating and annoying. Watch out for the hammer and keep your 
 distance from him and you should be fine. 
  
  Alastor: This boss is the funnest enemy I have ever fought in a fps game. You start off at the 
 top of a tower which has several levels. Due to the fact that alastor has wings you'll be shooting 
 at him from a distance first. He's main airborne attacks are swooping down upon you dealing out 
 some fatal damage unless dodged of course, and swooping down again but shooting flames out of his 
 mouth for that extra kick of fatality. After you've shot him enough times he flies up into the 
 air and comes crashing down breaking the first level. Now your fighting him up close and personal. 
 He's attacks on the ground involve him leaping out at you and shooting flames, or trying to step/punch 
 you. After shooting him lots of times he thumps the ground with he's hands and breaks the second 
 level. He repeats this about 3 more times before finally reaching ground level, now you have much 
 more space to maneuver. After shooting away half of he's health, he will walk to the middle of 
 the room and awaken about 10 statues to heal him, while the statues are healing him you can break 
 them, don't break them all in time and you'll have to repeat again untill all of them are smashed 
 to pieces. When all the statues are broken you finally get to take down alastor once and for all 
 without his healing abilities.
  
  Lucifer: This boss is another big guy like the necrogiant, he's attacks are throwing his HUGE sword 
 at you and casting fireballs from the sky. You fight him in demon mode so before the fireballs 
 hit the ground push them towards him to damage he's health. After you've repeated this about 10 
 times he finally dies. Lucifer takes the longest to kill and he's attacks are probably the most 
 powerful in the game. HE IS HARD!
  
  Collecting souls from dead enemies in painkiller is necessary if you want to morph into a demon. 
 You must collect 66 souls to become a demon, demon mode lasts for about 1 minute. But that minute 
 is long enough because in demon mode you kill every enemy in one shot.
  
  The weapons in painkiller are awesome. Here is a list of them:
  
  Painkiller: Basically a hand 
 held meat grinder that kills your enemies almost instantly. It has 3 blades that open up and slice 
 everything that they come into contact with. Its second attack lets you fire the blades out of 
 the mechanism and into a wall slicing up enemies along the way, once it has reached the wall it 
 creates a lazer that cuts enemies that are dumb enough to walk into it. You can click the secondary 
 fire button again for the blades to fly back into the mechanism ready to mulch people again. This 
 weapon shows off painkiller's physics the best.
  
  Shotgun: A double barreled shotgun that blasts people in half. Its secondary fire is a single bullet 
 that can freeze enemies leaving them open to multiple shots.
  
  Stakegun: A gun that fires out stakes, the stakes can impale enemies to walls. The secondary fire 
 is a grenade launcher used to lob grenades at people which explode on impact.
  
  Rocketlauncher: A gun that fires out high explosive RPG (Rocket Propelled Grenades) . The secondary 
 fire is a chaingun that shoots thousands of bullets per second that rip anyone to shreds caught 
 in the line of fire. 
  
  Electrodriver: A gun that rapidly fires out shurikens. Its secondary fire spawns out a thick long 
 mast of electricity that zaps everything it comes into contact with.
  
  Each weapon has a special firing mode that combines the primary fire with the secondary fire, creating 
 a powerful blast of DEATH!
  
  The variety of levels in painkiller is the best, each level feels completely different than the 
 last, the environments and surroundings are well put together. Lots of games suffer from the levels 
 feeling repetitive such as doom 3 and prey. Painkiller however overcame that problem with ease.
 
  
  
  The bad:
  
  NOTHING! Seriously I can't think of one bad thing about this game, its set out to be a mindless 
 action packed fps and it does that perfectly. So don't expect a well crafted plot, clever puzzles 
 or smart dialogue because this is just brainless shooting with a fistfull of bosses and weapons.
 
  
  Overall painkiller kicks ass and ticks all the boxes which you would expect in a fps game such 
 as, great weapons, sick boss battles, cool looking enemies and cramped full of some of the most 
 brutal gore in gaming history that would make your mum faint at first sight. Two thumbs straight 
 up for painkiller!
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: PrvtChurch
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 3, 2009 8:05 pm PT
Review:  It is fun. Period. First, Yes.... there is a gun that shoots Shurikens and Lightning, and Electrified 
 shurikens.
  
  The story is absolutely pointless. It doesn't matter at ALL. The basic premise of the game is that 
 you and your wife are on your way to a restaurant on a very rainy night, when you get hit by a 
 truck, and DIE (Surprise, Surprise) . She goes to heaven and you go to purgatory, and are then hired 
 by god to kill the generals of hells army. who are trying to blah blah blah...... I don't know 
 or care about the rest. you want a story? Here, To Quote Yahtzee: Demons over there... Kill they 
 ass.
  
  Its a bonanza of killing with body parts flying. the graphics are pretty good considering its age. 
 Plus they have aged VERY well. The sound is AMAZING. The music is good if not odd, the enemies, 
 oh there are over 50 unique enemies, have there own sounds (voices, screams etc.) and the environment 
 is pretty detailed.
  
  Over all its a fun if not brainless (not in a bad way) FPS 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sardinar
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 27, 2008 4:01 am PT
Review:  "Alastor? But I killed you!" - Painkiller guy (lol don't remember the name) .
  
  (I played this a long time ago so meh don't remember much) You are in a car with your girlfriend 
 driving real safely and then something hits you (or you hit something) and you both die. You appear 
 in some kind of a church in between heaven and hell and some guy tells to kick some demon ass. 
 So you go and kill em all.
  
  Story:
  The Good: Enough storytelling to keep on the point, since this is like old-school FPS, story will 
 not be much of a factor.
  The Bad: Cinematic Flaws really show, no explicit story, no connection in between places you go.
 
  
  The Gameplay:
  The Good: The best Rag-doll effect and gore, Great Weapons, lots of stuff to kill, Soundtrack fits 
 the gameplay, Black-tarot cards, great replay value, Great Boss fights, good physics.
  The Bad: "Feast for eyes, not for the brains" - Ranzou, Mindless AI (Tiny factor due to it's gamestyle 
 and variety of enemies) .
  
  The Graphics:
  The Good: Uses next-gen graphics, awesome out-doors, great gore, cool-looking enemies, HUGE Bosses, 
 nice weapon projectile.
  The Bad: Nothing much.
  
  Overall: A Great gameplay but it lacks certain aspects like puzzles or explicit story. A very nice 
 rag-doll and gore effects which could have been alot worse if not for them. Satisfying mass destruction 
 of grouped monsters, good weapons.
  
  Score: Story - 7 Overall Score - 86.7%
  Gameplay - 9
  Graphics - 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dibyajyoti_mond
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 27, 2008 12:17 pm PT
Review:  First of all this is a mindless FPS. You don't have to use any brains whatsoever. Literally it's 
 like close your eyes and shoot and practically while using the basic PAINKILLER weapon. 
  However this works for normal monsters and not for the Bosses. Killing the Bosses is almost frustrating. 
 If you don't know how and where to hit them using which particular weapon, you are like pretty 
 much a gonner. 
  Visuals are sharp, light and shades are just right. Sounds effects are good. Only interesting thing 
 I personally found are the Tarrot cards. The story is not apparent while playing and only told 
 during cutscenes which is quite boring. Absence of puzzles or interactive features also doesn't 
 help much. I played F. E. A. R. which was awesome. DOOM 3 was also better. But not this one. 
  Basically an RPG fan like me will find this game as I earlier said BORING. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ranzou
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 7, 2008 6:33 pm PT
Review:  I waited awhile before finally picking this title up. Should have left it on the shelf. The game 
 is way too simple. Go around a basic level shooting everything that moves and a few of the props.
 
  
  While the cutscenes are cool, they are the only way of understanding the story. Might as well check 
 out Youtube instead to save hours and money.
  
  Gameplay is way too simplistic. Lots of bad guys charge you and you shoot them. No need to reload 
 because until you run out of ammo just hold down the fire button and it will continuously shoot. 
 Extra ammo is abundant, very seldom did I run out through the entire game. At first the levels 
 are short and extra-boring, they do get bigger and better as you progress. Eventually there is 
 a fair assortment of baddies to blast.
  
  While the main parts are straight forward and fairly boring, the boss battles are just plain frustrating. 
 Half the time you don't know how to injury them. Sort of reminded me of Mega-Man bosses, got to 
 find the right weapon or location to shoot them. Thankfully Gamespot had user guides available 
 to figure these out.
  
  This game was disappointing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: asafs16
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 15, 2008 1:46 pm PT
Review:  so after playing CRYSIS, BIOSHOCK, PREY and all the rest.. i decided to try this one.. so i can say 
 that this game is way way better than the new games of 2007 why? so first of all it got a nice 
 story
  "you are a criminal that died on a car exident and insted going to hell.. you have that chanse 
 to fight for heaven against hell forces and than instead, going to hell you will go to heaven, 
 and now the next thing is the great gameplay, ok some peoples have said that the gameplay sucks 
 but thats not true.. the gameplay is really simple... and i mean really simple like the old school 
 first person shooter.. its an easy gameplay.. only peoples who played this game will understand
 
  anyway now lets talk about "addictive" this word is perfect for the game becuase this game is 
 more of
  "shoot anything you see game", you will have like a
  1000 monsters from hell to kill its great, even if you will play on easy you will have lots of 
 monsters,
  the sounds are great songs and music effects and the last thing i wanna talk is the graphic simple.. 
 but not that bad the visual effects are awesome
  also the game is really.. really... long!
  but its great a long story of non-stop action its great it took me like a month to finish it
 
  and the best thing in this game is the great
  RAGDOLL EFFECT when you shoot someone in the head he will go flying its great!! just what you want 
 to see in those kinda games
  
  so let me finish by saying this: if you see this game but it, becuase this game will be awesome 
 even in 10 years from now believe me... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Meat_Bag
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 6, 2008 7:49 am PT
Review:  I have to say, I was never much into old-school shooters. 
  
  Especially in these modern times of Half-Life 2 and FarCry, where immense storytelling, great AI, 
 huge open-ended levels and overall fancy-schmancy cinematic presentations win the day. That's why 
 I was so pleasantly surprised with Painkiller. Even tough I literally hate this kind of unrealistic, 
 pompous old-school shooters well-known for brain-dead AI and simple (and often dull) gameplay, 
 I couldn't help but say "Wow!" after beating the first level. So, what do we have here, you might 
 ask? 
  
  Well, my friend, as you probably realized by now, we're dealing with a good old-fashioned first 
 person shooter. The kind of shooter that sends hordes of enemies at you, gives you one or two highly 
 overpowered weapons and lets you wreak havoc all over the level. Short and very simple level, where 
 your only objective is to kill everything that stands in your way. Pretty much like Serious Sam. 
 Except here you don't have a feeling that Bugs Bunny is hiding just around the corner, waiting 
 to ask you "What's up, doc?" as soon as you bump into him. If Serious Sam was Looney Toons, Painkiller 
 would be "Bram Stoker meets Tim Burton". To put it simply, the game is dark, bloody, grotesque, 
 violent and extremely gruesome. 
  
  But all that wouldn't be so impressive if you didn't have a good excuse for unloading your guns 
 into all those nightmarish creatures. Yes, I'm talking about the story. In this game, you play 
 as a macho man called Daniel Garner who, after a fatal car crash, ends up in a limbo. Unable to 
 completely die, unable to get back to the real world, Daniel is given a chance to redeem himself 
 by serving God. Yep, that's right, the big boss contacts him via an emissary and tells him that 
 he needs him to stop Lucifer from going to war against heaven. By killing his four generals. Wow... 
 Not really a Pulitzer-winning plot, but it fits surprisingly well into this game, and prevents 
 you from feeling silly about mowing down hundreds of infernal creatures all the way to hell and 
 back. 
  
  But the levels are what makes this game truly impressive. They're so carefully designed and impressive 
 you'll often feel sorry for not having enough time to explore them thoroughly and enjoy their beauty. 
 That's because you'll be too busy fending off dozens of bloodthirsty enemies in the most spectacular 
 FPS action up to date. From the gloomy cemetery, deep catacombs, dark castles, and all the way 
 to hell itself, levels are a truly magnificent sight for sore eyes. Spectacular graphics that runs 
 perfectly on just about any system makes it even better. 
  As for the enemies, well... That's something truly special. Each any every level has it's own set 
 of different monsters. Well, there are the usual cannon fodder, the more aggressive, stronger cannon 
 fodder, and of course special one-of-a-kind enemies that you meet only on a particular level. They 
 look great, move fluidly, and are about as handsome as the average H. P. Lovecraft's creature. When 
 you shoot someone with a shotgun, it will either blow him to pieces, or send him flying 10 meters 
 away into the wall, where he will leave a bloody splattered stain and drop down on the ground like 
 a rag doll. It's just beautiful... 
  Some of them are actually the same type of foes just looking different, but most of them have a 
 real unique abilities. I don't even want to mention boss fights, I'm just gonna let you see that 
 for yourself. Oh, boy... Expect a lot of "Wow!" sounds during first hours of the game.
  
  The graphics are awesome, the sound is great, the music is perfect for this job and keeps you fired 
 up for killing every time the action starts. So why not give at least this game a pure 10?
  
  Well, it's the weapons. They look great, sound great, wreak some real havoc, but there simply 
 isn't enough of them. You have about 5 or 6 weapons in the entire game, and together with their 
 secondary fire modes, that maybe adds up at about 10. But most of the time you'll be using 1 or 
 2 that got you through the previous level. Such a shame, really. But hey, no one is perfect...
 
  
  All in all, this game simply rocks! It's just pure fun, fast-paced action, and spectacular boss 
 fights. Add to it a dark, gloomy atmosphere of a horror movie and you got yourself a real mean 
 killing machine. Forget Serious Sam - Painkiller is the real game! 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: krazyorange
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 27, 2008 1:01 am PT
Review:  Clearly, I am impatient. The last few games I've played, my main gripe is "the last level (s) are 
 ridiculous and ruin the overall greatness of the game." Painkiller is no different, as I had a 
 blast through the entire game, yet coming upon the final challenge I was met with nothing more 
 than frustration and anger. It's somewhat sad in a twofold fashion; first that I don't maintain 
 the patience to see my massive game collection through to fruition, and even though I am -admittedly 
 and somewhat "cockily" a gamer with above-average skill- I have difficulty concluding the final 
 mission of the games I choose to beat. Nonetheless, Painkiller is an excellent game in which I 
 will attempt to negate the fact I despised the final level.
  
  In following the vein of Serious Sam, People Can Fly crafted a game in which the entire goal is 
 to slay countless respawning foes in the quickest fashion possible whilst progressing to the next 
 area and repeating. The many reviews I've read state this is an "old school" way to create first-person 
 shooters, but I found little connection besides the lack of in-level storyline. Doom and Quake 
 and other countless "old" shooters at least maintained varied objectives such as finding a key 
 to open a door. Painkiller's only objective is to kill, which remains true throughout its entirety... which 
 in no way is a poor design choice. It does have an air of monotony, but the sheer adrenaline rush 
 from the massacre subconsciously negates the fact that I am simply clicking the left mouse button 
 thousands and thousands of times. It would have been nice to have some kind of differing objectives, 
 but its simplicity is refreshing since some of the newer titles (read: Quake 4) fail when attempting 
 to add "newfangled" objectives to outdated gameplay. Regardless, it's easy -and true- to say Painkiller 
 involves murdering and moving. That is all.
  
  Luckily, the level design is excellent. I traversed temples, cathedrals, a dockyard, train stations, 
 and even a haunted asylum in my conquest, and much praise rightfully should be given to the designers 
 at PCF. Other titles which involve mass slaying suffer from level monotony which serves to accentuate 
 the run-and-gun gameplay, but Painkiller is much the opposite. Granted, the levels are quite linear, 
 but the texture sets and uniqueness are fulfilling and continually drove me to see what the next 
 area would serve up. Additionally, the graphics are phenomenal, even as I play the game four years 
 after its release, which shows how amazing it must have been back in 2004. Lighting, the aforementioned 
 textures, and effects are wonderful and immersive. It's a shame there are only five weapons, although 
 each has an alternate mode of fire which is completely different than the primary. The shotgun 
 features a freezing shell, which when used in conjunction with the normal fire is deadly against 
 even the most powerful enemies. The rocket launcher doubles as a chaingun, and the shuriken launcher 
 has a Quake 3-inspired lighting gun (unfortunately, this weapon is mostly impotent and remains 
 so throughout the game) . Most useful are the stake launcher -which has a grenade-launching secondary- 
 which is used as a sniping tool of sorts, and the basic starting weapon which is a spinning  
 since it never runs out of ammunition and is greatly effective against massed foes.
  
  Speaking of massed foes, Painkiller's artificial intelligence is anything but intelligent. Enemies 
 are created from spawn points which remain active until a set number of foes are slain, which is 
 acceptable in light of the game's premise... except the baddies only possess the following subroutines: 
 attack and move. It's quite simple to run backwards and attract a mass following of adversaries, 
 then simply fire an explosive or charge them with the spinning blade weapon and exterminate the 
 lot. It would have been far more interesting for them to behave intelligently and seek cover or 
 attack more cohesively, yet it's just as easy to oversee this in lieu of the point of Painkiller: 
 kill demons. And since I'm speaking of demons, the enemy variety is excellent. Each level seems 
 to introduce several new targets to shoot which eases the fact that most are simple to eradicate 
 and none have any brains about them. Painkiller's plot is surprisingly good, even though the actual 
 levels have no story whatsoever. (Mild spoiler warning) The main character is Daniel, who in the 
 introductory movie is driving to dinner with his girlfriend/wife when they plow into a truck and 
 are killed. Daniel is held in some strange sort of Purgatory which is being invaded by Lucifer's 
 armies as a stepping stone in their invasion of Heaven. The entire narrative is told via excellent 
 cutscenes between chapters -each which is around five or so levels- which are marvelously animated 
 and contain a topless Eve, the mother of mankind. 
  
  In my opinion, Painkiller takes more from Return to Castle Wolfenstein than the traditional imagery 
 of Purgatory and Hell, in that enemies seem akin to Nazi experimentation as opposed to preconcieved 
 demons and Satan's generals. This is good however, since thirty-plus levels of shooting at winged, 
 flaming sword-wielding creatures would more than likely be extremely dull. The boss characters 
 at the conclusion of each chapter are more in-tune with biblical imagery than the rest of the cannon-fodder, 
 although a couple stick out -namely a certain boss which is made up of swamp bubbles. All the same, 
 Painkiller is an excellent game which, although it clearly lacks originality in the the gameplay 
 department, more than supplements it with style and sheer determination to throw hundreds of objects 
 to fire your guns at. Kudos, People Can Fly at producing a game which surely takes risks but ultimately 
 succeeds. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: agturboninja
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 11, 2008 12:00 pm PT
Review:  Painkiller is a fun shoot em up game. There is no fetch quests or need color card key for further 
 advancement. It is straight shoot the em up. It has a poor story but whoop de doo.
  
  The levels are nice and vary a lot, so no two levels look the same. The levels vary to Islamic 
 temples, to cathedrals, train stations, and a military base. There is over 50 types enemies and 
 their is a lot of variety. I enjoyed the review by Yahtzee, and decide to buy it for $9.99. It 
 is an awesome game. Each weapons has a alternate fire, or another weapons which is adds more variety. 
 The bosses are huge, and it is awesome seeing bodies being hurled up in the air and limbs flying 
 in all directions. 
  
  It is a fun simple first person shooter, and I wished that their was more FPS's that had run and 
 gun mechanics while fighting against dozens of enemies at any given time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThePunisherBR
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 19, 2008 8:22 am PT
Review:  After playing bioshock, i decided to try this one, just to know how painkiller entertains its fans. 
 I figured out that painkiller is a "kill and kill" game sith no substance or sense at all. It is 
 amazing for people looking for this kind of entertainement, but it does not work for me. I played 
 for 15 minutes and that is enough. Repetitive, nothing beyond killing and "the universe" is boring. 
 The game at all is not a total letdown, but it is one of the worse 1st person shooter i have ever 
 played.
  Compare Painkiller and Doom 3, which are similar, and you will notice that the second one is much 
 more intriguing and interesting.
  In conclusion, do not waste time playing this game. Try Doom 3, S. T. A. L. K. E. R, F. E. A. R, Crysis, 
 Half-Life 2 (i have not played yet, but seen) and Bioshock.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: achilles123
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 21, 2008 9:56 am PT
Review:  Firstly, let me tell you what Painkiller game isn't about. It is not about pretensions, it is not 
 about ambition, it is not about cliches. It is not about "complex environment" or unscripted AI. 
 It is not about main missions, sub-missions and sub-sub-missions. It is not about "revolutionary 
 graphics", "revolutionary game play" or revolutionary anything. And it is definitely not about 
 the sells and the end-of-the-year figures. 
  
  It is all about the fun - plain and simple. 
  
  It is about atmosphere, it is about art, it 
 is about immersion. It is ultimately about people having fun making it, so that other people can 
 have fun playing it. Painkiller reminds me of the good 'ol days when games were made to be played, 
 not only to be sold.
  
  Now... You go back to play Crysis. And I am going to replay Barracks - that masterpiece Painkiller 
 level. Wanna bet who will have more fun? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Freedom_Link
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 12, 2008 9:20 am PT
Review:  In this fast paced roit of a game there is one thing that you need to know...
  There is a gun that shoots Shurikens and Lightening...
  Thats amazing I mean shurikens and lightening! 
 It could only be more amazing if It had boobs and was on fire!!
  
  All the weapons in this game are awesome!!
  Theres over 50 different type of dude to kill each 
 well designed and cool.
  If you play this game without killing a dude for over a minute your not playing it right. Although 
 it does get repetitive and shovels a crap story down your throat which you dont need to hear... 
 I mean all you want to do is NAIL ENEMYS TO A WALL WITH A TREE TRUNK! and maybe th first couple 
 of levels arnt that amazing, none of the flaws matter at all...
  BECAUSE THERES A WEAPON THAT SHOOTS SHURIKENS AND LIGHTENING!
  
  
  Thanks for reading!
 
  Happy Gaming!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danb0
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 1, 2008 5:10 am PT
Review:  Painkiller is by no means a deep game. It is a straight-up FPS that holds no punches and is in 
 your face from start to finish. It is jam-packed with constant chaos and blasting- it's an action 
 movie on steroids.
  
  If you enjoy a game like Doom you should love Painkiller. It is basically the same kind of thing 
 except instead of the key-fetch rigmarole you have checkpoints that funnel you through the levels. 
 You're still shooting many, many demons with big guns and running about like mad. You're still 
 able to carry a ridiculous amount of ammo and several large guns that magically don't require reloading 
 but you know what? That's fine. This isn't the kind of game you pick for the realism (save the 
 physics) , this is the kind of game you play when you just want to sit down, unwind and unload hefty 
 shotgun blasts into hordes of hell's minions. And it hasn't been this good for a while.
  
  Given this, the main focus of Painkiller is the action; the battles and the guns. However, one 
 can't overlook the addition of physics to the tried and tested FPS formula. Most of the time you'll 
 be admiring the ragdoll system where a rocket blast will send foes flying off in all directions 
 with their limbs flailing about lifelessly till they hit a wall or some similar solid object. The 
 Stakegun, oddly enough a gun that shoots large wooden sticks, is another favourite. For example, 
 you can use it to pin enemies to walls and their limbs will just dangle helplessly as they are 
 stuck up there like some hideous vestige of your marksmanship. Rushing into a huge group of enemies 
 with the shotgun blasting is quite an experience as you plough a path of destruction through a 
 mass of evil.
  
  The level design is sort of a hit and miss. You will get some amazing levels like a monastery/island, 
 an insane asylum and an opera house. On the other hand there are a bunch of factory/industrial/underground 
 levels that all seem pretty much the same and when played consecutively tend to be a bit of a grind. 
 Nonetheless, it succeeds more often than it fails.
  
  The sound and music were quite enjoyable. The weapons all sound understandably powerful, plenty 
 of explosions, enemies shouting out, cries of defeat/anguish- it sounds like a warzone. The music 
 is good too. When you enter a battle the ambient, laid back music changes into some heavy metal 
 to get you all fired up so you can blast through hundreds of soldiers, foaming at the mouth. It 
 does tend to get a bit samey, much like the level design it can sometimes blend together and become 
 a grungy, testosterone-filled mush but it fits the game well and I generally don't have a problem 
 with it.
  
  What I do have a problem with is the game design choices at some points. Like a boss fight near 
 the end of the game where you can be killed by fall damage. I know there are ways to avoid it and 
 I know it's trying to be different to all the boss fights before it but come on, fall damage? The 
 annoying thing is the boss itself wouldn't even be that hard without this aspect. Maybe they just 
 got tired of making models of really, really big enemies.
  
  So is Painkiller just Doom with physics and a better graphics engine? Pretty much, but there are 
 some extra tidbits in there. You can collect cards by meeting certain criteria for each level e. g. 
 Complete level x by collecting y souls. The cards provide enhancements or new skills that make 
 the game easier e. g. more damage, faster movement etc. In order to use the cards you have to spend 
 a certain amount of gold to place them in your inventory (gold is collected in the levels) and 
 you can only place a certain amount. So there is a strategic element there but really it's only 
 on the higher difficulty levels that you'll actually find a need for these cards. 
  
  Another feature is the ability to turn into a demon. Each time you kill an enemy, they disappear 
 in a puff of smoke and their soul is left behind. If you collect 66 souls you then turn into a 
 demon that can one-shot-kill any enemy and can move slightly faster. It's more of a "there if you 
 need it" thing once again- if you become skilled enough at the game you won't be bothered with 
 it as much but starting out it can be a bit of fun.
  
  So there it is, Painkiller is basically like a new version of Doom with some added features and 
 ragdoll physics. This doesn't mean it's a bad game though. If you go into it knowing what to expect 
 you will have a massive amount of fun. Just don't expect anything revolutionary. Expect an old-school 
 FPS with action, action and more action... Oh, and big guns. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smchacko
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 11, 2008 1:44 pm PT
Review:  ======== Story ========
  
  Daniel Garner goes on a drive in the rain with his wife one night but they both die in a car crash. 
 His wife goes to heaven but Daniel is sentenced to purgatory. He has one chance to join her by 
 assisting heaven in destroying Lucifer's four generals.
  
  ======== What Painkiller Does Good ========
  
  FUN WEAPONS: weapon each fire in two modes. 
 For example the shotgun / freezer and the Stake-gun / grenade lobber. The shotgun and stake gun 
 are great fun and at a balanced power level. Other weapons include the Rocket launcher/chain gun 
 combo and the Electro-driver (Ninja Star tosser and Lightning gun combo)
  
  VARIETY OF ENEMIES: Daniel will face demonic hordes ranging from un-dead soldiers, demonic crossbow 
 knights, flesh tossing zombies, axe-wielding monks, scythe wielding skull-headed sorcerers, flamethrower 
 demons, evil ninjas, evil samurai and more. The enemies look and attack uniquely and are modeled 
 nicely.
  
  GREAT BOSSES: Painkiller has the hugest bosses ever. From the first Necro-Giant, to the winged 
 demon Allister they are all well animated, and tower over the player.
  
  SOUNDTRACK: When wandering, the music can be eerie and haunting but the game kicks in with great 
 heavy metal music when the action gets thick and it fits perfectly. The theme in the closing credits 
 is "Painkiller" by a Polish metal band called Mech, what a great track.
  
  ABILITY CARDS: By satisfying certain conditions in a stage such as not collecting power ups or 
 smashing all the crates Daniel will be given a card. These can be used for effects in tight situations. 
 Some examples allow Daniel to fire at a faster rate, slow down time and inflict more damage.
  
  ANIMATION: Great rag doll physics and guts splatter. Watching it in slow-motion is even cooler.
 
  
  
  ======== What Painkiller does BAD ========
  NO STORY: A minor problem.
  
  ROCKET LAUNCHER FEEL: This may be a personal issue, but the r. launcher feels clunky and is less 
 fun than the awesome stake-gun and shotgun.
  
  MULTI-PLAYER: A few novelty modes, but nothing new here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jenolie
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 5, 2008 12:41 pm PT
Review:  If you're looking for realism, tactical challenges, realistic ballistics, blah blah blah, this 
 ain't the game.
  
  If you're jonesing to pump virtual bullet after virtual bullet into hordes of demonic enemies, 
 with a flimsy albeit cool tale cause it's set in HELL! (and Purgatory which seemed a lot like HELL!) 
 Well this is the game for you.
  
  Personally, I loved this game. An old school shooter that channels the good old days of DOOM. Get 
 gun, get bigger gun and then get some new tricked out version of the BFG. Press mouse button repeatedly 
 and watch the enemies disintergrate. Rinse and repeat, which I was more than happy to oblige. Loved 
 the creepy whacked out settings and enemies. Loved the way out gigantic bosses and did I mention 
 it was set in HELL!
  
  Lastly, if you are easily offended by demons, pitch forks, and fire and brimstone this game ain't 
 for you cause it's set in HELL!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Evil_Insane
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 21, 2008 12:13 pm PT
Review:  In 2004, a company called People Can Fly crawled out of the woodwork and created a game called 
 Painkiller. Their aim was to create a horror first-person shooter that incorporated the old-school 
 elements of Doom and Serious Sam, and they succeeded to a certain degree. People Can Fly also released 
 a Painkiller expansion pack named Painkiller: Battle out of Hell. They haven't done anything else 
 since.
  
  Story 4/10
  
  You are Daniel Garner, a man who, along with his wife, Catherine, has been killed in a car crash. 
 While Catherine ascended into Heaven, Daniel is kept in Purgatory. After a number of years, he 
 is approached by Sammael, a messenger of God. 
  
  It seems that Purgatory is the ideal ground for Satan (or Lucifer) to plan his attack on Heaven, 
 as it is directly between Heaven and Hell. Thus, Satan has been amassing his army of demons in 
 Purgatory and has been slowly taking all of Purgatory's souls down to Hell to make his army grow 
 ever larger. 
  
  Sammael gives Daniel a proposition: help destroy Satan's advancing army and gain entry to Heaven. 
 Daniel reluctantly accepts and, with the help of Eve, has to take down four of Satan's generals 
 to stop the invasion.
  
  The plot, though, has no relevance to the game, really. The levels change from graveyards to castles 
 to towns to factories to bogs in a seemingly unrelated fashion. The enemies are dependant on the 
 level, but can be ninjas, ghosts, witches, necromancers, zombies, knights, armour-bound skeletons 
 and everything in between.
  
  The plot is only revealed through the cutscenes that appear every five levels or so, and seems 
 like almost an afterthought, as if the game was created first and the story second. Which is good, 
 because the story, although intriguing, doesn't affect the gameplay at all, and vice versa.
  
  Gameplay 8/10
  
  Ohhhhhhhh, such fun to be had! The gameplay is rather simple: You are 
 thrown into a level. You follow the onscreen arrow to an area, which will, more often than not, 
 be locked down, encasing you in there with about twenty bad guys, who you then shoot until they 
 die of death. Upon doing this, the area will become unlocked and you follow the arrow to another 
 area and then go crazy in there.
  
  Sounds boring doesn't it? Well, you are, in fact, very wrong for thinking that and shame on you. 
 The game actually excels in this simple premise. The levels, as I have mentioned, bear no correlation 
 to anything else that happens in the game. You can move easily from a medieval town to an underground 
 cave to a graveyard to a construction site in the space of a few levels. Although the bad guys 
 appear in relation to the level (crazies in the insane asylum, workers in the docks, knights in 
 a palace etc.) the order in which they appear makes no sense, either temporally (renaissance towns 
 appear at the same time as modern-day machines on a bridge) or in space (from Japan to England, 
 for example) , it seems as if the games creators threw together a game filled with all the set pieces 
 they could think of, and then added the story in on top of it, as I have said before.
  
  But who cares? Cos we don't want mind-numbingly complex stories, do we? No, we wanna shoot wooden 
 poles through zombies and blow up entire legions of hellish knights. And that's exactly what Painkiller 
 delivers. Of the five weapons, each with a secondary function, you can find numerous ways to deal 
 death to Hells minions.
  
  Your initial weapon is the Painkiller, a cross between a lawnmower and a magnet. The primary function 
 allows you to mow zombies down in their droves, whilst the secondary fires out a shot that attaches 
 onto the bad guys and pulls them towards you, allowing you to saw them into tiny pieces.
  
  Your next weapon is the Shotgun. The primary fire is, of course, a shotgun blast. The secondary 
 function, however, is a blast of liquid nitrogen, freezing your enemies in their tracks. Any attack, 
 even from other enemies, sends the frozen shattering into pieces.
  
  The Stakegun is, without a doubt, one of the most original and fun weapons I have ever had the 
 pleasure of shooting. I suppose it probably started life as a melee weapon of some kind  the standard 
 stake  however, the developers attached these sticks o' pain onto a catapult and let them get 
 fired towards the enemies, impaling them and sticking them onto the wall. The secondary function 
 releases a grenade that bounces towards the enemy and detonates, sending them flying in all directions.
 
  
  The Electrodriver shoots tiny little metal shards at the enemy and also doubles up as an electric 
 shock device. The Chaingun is a handy machine gun with a rocket launcher attached. Ideal for taking 
 down crowds of hellish scum.
  
  The game uses ragdoll physics of the Havoc 2.0 engine, which is particularly pretty when you lob 
 an explosive into a pack of enemies and watch them scatter through the air. A nice addition to 
 the physics is that when you hit an enemy with a powerful weapon, such as an explosive or shotgun 
 blast, instead of just spiralling into the air, their body actually disintegrates into pieces  
 generally a torso, limbs and head  and scatters about the place, spraying blood in all direction. 
 The enemies will also occasionally grab other enemies to use as shields, which is nice.
  
  When you start the game, you get to choose your difficulty. By starting at the easiest difficulty 
 (Daydream) you can have fun playing the game without any difficulty, however, you won't get the 
 full game. By advancing into the higher difficulties, you unlock more and more areas. Also, the 
 higher difficulties allow you to use the Black Tarot cards.
  
  When you play a level, the game will set you a specific task such as "Kill all the enemies" or 
 "Don't use explosives" or "Collect all the money". If you complete the level within the given parameters, 
 you are given a Black Tarot card. These have special powers that can be given to you such as quad 
 damage, extra health etc. and can be activated during the game. To equip these cards you need money, 
 and this is easily found in the game as there are destroyable artefacts such as coffins, vases, 
 crates etc.
  
  When a bad guy is killed, his soul is released. If you pick it up, you get a little bit of health 
 back. Collect 66 of them and you'll turn into a demon, which kicks ass as your vision turns black 
 and white, enemies show up bright red, and any attack shoots a blast at your enemies, killing them 
 in one shot. Powerful.
  
  Graphics 7/10
  
  The graphics were and still are incredibly good, even by today's post-F. E. A. R standards. The lighting 
 effects, the massive locales, literally dozens of enemies, as well as the ragdoll physics makes 
 this game amazing to look at.
  
  For instance, take the town level. The whole thing is in night time and has narrow backstreets 
 with fires blazing in houses, casting shadows over the walls; enemies stumble towards you, throwing 
 pieces of themselves at you; you lob a grenade at them, they scatter like bowling pins, spiralling 
 through the air. Beautiful. The textures are amazing, very detailed, and the explosions, sparks, 
 particle effects and everything else are a sight to behold, especially on a souped up machine, 
 where it all flows perfectly.
  
  The only downside to the graphics is that some of the enemies look very "spiky". That's all well 
 and good when they're biker skeletons where spikes are part of the costume, but sometimes the characters 
 appear "pointy" when they're supposed to appear "smooth". This is probably due to technical limitations 
  the models had to be constructed of as few polygons as possible so as more can be fit on a screen, 
 so its acceptable, especially as you rarely notice this during the game as its so fast-paced.
 
  
  Sound 7/10
  
  The sound effects are very well-done. Monster's growls and shouts sound decent enough and the weapon 
 noises are quite authentic and meaty. The music is generally ambience and moves into heavy metal 
 as you fight some bad guys, which is gets you worked up, but tends to be repetitive. Other than 
 that, the sound is quite satisfactory.
  
  Presentation 7/10
  
  The menus are all laid out with gothic imagery, which works well. The level selector is also nicely 
 made like a pentagram, and the level loading screen shows you some concept artwork of the level. 
 The HUD shows you all the usual information, such as a pointer to tell you where to head to next, 
 health, armour, ammo and amount of souls you collected this level. Pressing TAB also brings up 
 information such as objects destroyed, time in level and monsters killed. Tasty.
  
  Control 10/10
  
  The controls can be customised fully, but there isn't really many of them 
 to customise to be honest. Your standard movement buttons as well as primary and secondary weapons 
 fire and scrolling through weapons is all you need to worry about.
  
  Extra features 6/10
  
  If you play the game on the harder difficulty settings, you get a few 
 more levels, as well as the power to use the Black Tarot cards. I suppose if you want to, you can 
 collect all the Black Tarot cards, but, apart from that, there's not much extra within the game.
 
  
  Play Time 7/10
  
  It should take you about ten hours to complete the game normally, give or take a few depending 
 on the difficulty setting and if you want to replay levels in order to collect all the Black Tarot 
 cards. That's if you fly through the game, but more fun is to be had by strolling through it, enjoying 
 the massive expanses and having some fun killing the monsters. To get the most out of the game, 
 you'd need about fifteen to twenty hours.
  
  Replayability 6/10
  
  Besides playing the harder difficulties for the extra levels and attempting to get all the Black 
 Tarot cards, there isn't a reason to play it again unless you want to relieve some stress by shooting 
 up some zombies. That's still a good reason, like.
  
  Buy or rent? 10/10
  
  Buy. It's a bit cheap now anyways, as it was made a few years ago, and you get what you pay for 
  a good few levels of shooting up the undead with shotguns and lawnmowers.
  
  All in all, a fantastic game. Doesn't have much of a plot, but its great for relieving stress and 
 just playing a game for the sake of playing a game.
  
  Percentage: (The separate scores added together) 72%
  
  Gamespot score: (Not an average) 8.0
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CJ_9340
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 6, 2008 8:19 am PT
Review:  Painkiller is an "imported from Heaven" First Person Shotter because the game is awsome. The graphics 
 are great, the sound efects and the music themes are perfect and the gameplay excelent. But, the 
 game history is very poor, we can only chose levels and shot monsters. We don't actually watch 
 history so it makes this game a little boring.
  
  GET IT!!! GET IT!!! GET IT!!! GET IT!!! GET IT!!! GET IT!!! GET IT!!! GET IT!!! GET IT!!! GET IT!!! GET IT!!! GET 
 IT!!! GET IT!!! GET IT!!! GET IT!!! GET IT!!! GET IT!!!
  GET IT!!! GET IT!!! GET IT!!! GET IT!!! GET IT!!! GET IT!!! GET IT!!! GET IT!!! GET IT!!! GET IT!!! GET IT!!! GET 
 IT!!! GET IT!!! GET IT!!! GET IT!!! GET IT!!! GET IT!!! GET IT!!! GET IT!!! GET IT!!! GET IT!!! GET IT!!! GET 
 IT!!! GET IT!!! GET IT!!! GET IT!!! GET IT!!! GET IT!!! GET IT!!! GET IT!!! GET IT!!! GET IT!!! GET IT!!! GET 
 IT!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snipasr
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 23, 2008 12:16 pm PT
Review:  *WARNING THERE ARE SOME SPOILERS*
  
  This game takes all the more recent FPS formulas such as super advanced AI, Compelling and deep 
 story, puzzles/problem solving and so on and throws them right to the paper shredder. Now this 
 makes the game sound bad... but thats is not the case at all.
  
  Remember games like Serious Sam, Quake and who can forget Doom? Im talking the originals here where 
 you ran around shooting hordes of enemies and you never even knew exactly what the story was or 
 where you got those crazy weapons. Thats exactly what Painkiller is. 
  
  The "story" in this game is that you got in a car accident and died along with your wife and now 
 you are a "hitman" for God and you have to destroy lucifers army to have judgement passed on you 
 so you can go to heaven and see your wife again... or something like that who has time to focus 
 on the story when there is so much killing. They took a try at making and engaging story but really 
 I couldnt care less if it just had scrolling text at the beginning of the game that said "You are 
 a guy that has to kill ****in' every hell bound creature and Satan him self... Have fun"
  
  The game play and action in this game are what really sells it though. Right from the start you 
 are handed 2 of your small arsenal of weapons and are set in a grave yard and you have to kill 
 like 250 skeleton warriors and other random creatures. The enemies are dumb and can barely walk 
 in a straight line but when they are coming at you in huge numbers it gets a little tricky later 
 on in the game. But luckily you are supplied with more ammo for all your guns than you will ever 
 know what to do with. So shoot away.
  
  the bosses... oh my god the bosses. They are something to remember for sure. None of them are really 
 "super hard" or anything. Some of them have their little tricks to beating especially Lucifer. 
 So you may die a few times but you will get it. What makes the bosses great is that all of them 
 make King Kong and Godzilla look tiny. Its obsurd really. You are barely the size of the toe of 
 the first boss. Its AWESOME!
  
  The music here is also great. Its just crazy-heavy metal-slaughter house music. Any time an enemy 
 shows up the music starts tearing away and it makes it so much more intense because your pumped 
 from the awesome action and the bad-ass music.
  
  Overall this game is an instant classic to me and I will no doubt play through it again soon. Heck 
 even its expansion packs are great - new levels, bad guys, bosses and weapons... No complaint here.
 
  
  Buy this game. Its like $10 now at any game store and no matter how low end you computer is it 
 will run.
  
  *NOTE* If you are running a Dual Core or higher processor you will need to download a patch for 
 the processor to make the game run smooth. Its weird but trust me its unplayable without the patch. 
 And no it wont hurt your precious PC. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cmpunmu3
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 21, 2008 10:49 am PT
Review:  The intro video of the first chapter and a few other attributes reminded me of an "Archangel" game. 
 Everything else is pretty much "Serious Sam" excluding some things, that make it fun, original 
 and addictive game to play.
  We have more like shoot-'em-up, than seek-and-destroy type with loads of triggers, that bring hordes 
 of monsters to be minced. And for that reason we are being supplied with 5 different weapons with 
 a unique secondary attack for each; few guns can execute a third attack, but it's not very effective 
 - probably just for fun.
  The most memorable thing for me are the giant bosses at the end of each chapter and a fantastic, 
 beautifully designed landscape, that comes new at each level. The only thing that becomes repetitive 
 are monster types in few levels in a row.
  The possibility of destroying fragile walls with gunpowder filled barrels, looking for secret places, 
 mining for holy items and gold makes it even more replayable. We do want to change or to get new 
 cards - finish the main task of the level, or just go collect gold by killing enemies again and 
 destroy forgotten chests.
  And yes - the cards: you can get a card after each level as i said. There's two types of cards 
 - Silver and Golden; Silver cards are in effect throughout all the level, when golden only last 
 for mere seconds. But only few of the cards altogether are worth having (except if you're dying 
 to get another useless card just to have them) .
  The story is very simple and naive, but it doesn't spoil the game whatsoever.
  Music's pretty 
 rough at times, but it suites each battle and every level pretty well - i did not complain.
  Well, that's all Folks! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChristianKiss
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 14, 2007 11:24 am PT
Review:  Remember the good old days of Doom and Quake, when FPS gaming was everything about shooting legions 
 of enemies? This is the feel that Painkiller tries to re-create, and it does very well.
  
  Just a few years back, we had some great games offering this level of gameplay. The most known 
 is Serious Sam 1st / 2nd Encounter, from Croteam. From the same developers, Serious Sam II is out 
 and wasn't superb like its predecessors. Then came Saber Interactive's game called Will Rock, weak 
 and disappointing. So, for an old-school gamer like me, I'll have to wait for Serious Sam III? 
 No, thanks to People Can Fly and DreamCatcher, the Painkiller developers.
  
  Painkiller is similar to Serious Sam is some ways, but it has some unique features that shines 
 over the simplicist gameplay that it offers. First of all, the graphics are great, not amazing 
 like Doom 3, but well worked. It runs in really low-end machines: I installed this game on a PC 
 with the following hardware: Athlon XP 2000+, 512 MB RAM and an old GeForce 2 MX 400. The game 
 ran OK is most situations. Also, the physics engine (Havok 2.0) works almost perfectly, even better 
 than Doom 3. When you shoot a skeleton in close-range with a shotgun, the bones will fly and hit 
 with precision every object in the world.
  
  I found the story well written, just because it's simple and works to put the player into the context: 
 Daniel Garner, the character controlled by the player, suffers an accident when driving his car 
 with his wife, Catherine. Well, it seems that Daniel died, but it wakes up with a spirit telling 
 what he needs to do. The character will have to kill Lucifer's minions and also tries to save his 
 beloved. OK, enough of this. You'll find more about the storyline while watching the high-quality 
 and lengthy cinematics between the levels.
  
  You'll fight against large armies of undead, demons, ninjas, soldiers and so. But, in general, 
 the enemies aren't very smart and all you have to do is to shoot and dodge. Is this a problem? 
 It's intentional. Just like in Serious Sam, enemies will engage mindless against the hero. The 
 exceptions are mostly with bosses. They're also mindless, but you'll have to thing a little bit 
 to beat the giant-like bosses. It's not really that hard to figure out how to kill them, as I noticed 
 in some reviews talking about the enigmatic way to beat bosses.
  
  Your weird arsenal contains a good variety of weapons. The first one is a blade that can be thrown 
 or rip opponents. The second is a shotgun-like cannon, to fire at close-range. There're many others, 
 like the Stake Gun, which I love to use like a sniper (!) to stick opponents in walls. You can 
 change the current weapon to another in less than a second. This means that you'll use the weapon 
 that you need at certain moments without any wait. In some games, you just kill a guy at long distance 
 with a shotgun because you don't have time to change for a better long-ranged weapon. This will 
 not happen in Painkiller.
  
  Sound effects are OK, nothing special. But the soundtrack is amazing. Let me spoiler a little: 
 The second level is something like a cathedral, which you'll fight against mad monks. And, meanwhile, 
 a great heavy-metal music is playing while you finish the horde of monks armed with axes! A lot 
 of fun!
  
  Maps are very well-done. Some are just large battlegrounds with buildings as obstacles, while others 
 are filled with corridors and small rooms. I'd like to spoiler a little bit more, but I'll stop 
 here. But I'm sure that the player will find the levels very cool.
  
  There're four difficult levels. You'll want to start at the regular difficult, 'Insomnia', to try 
 the harder ones later. You'll probably want to replay the game, as some levels are locked at easier 
 difficult levels. To ease your pain to beat some levels, you'll have the Black Tarot cards. These 
 ones are powerups that you can use before entering a level, to boost something like health, speed 
 etc. You'll unlock the cards by accomplishing the 'objectives', presents in every level. Sometimes 
 you'll have to beat the entire level with a specific weapon to unlock a card, or to beat a boss 
 before a certain time and so. To use cards you'll spent 'gold', small coin pieces found in chests, 
 barrels and other objects. Additionally, every guy you kill will left a 'soul', which Daniel can 
 pick up and restore small portions of health. If you get enough souls, you'll turn in a deadly 
 monster for a short period of time.
  
  Multiplayer... [sigh] no Cooperative mode in Painkiller, and now the old Serious Sam wins. But 
 the Deathmatch and Voosh modes are alright. Voosh is a deathmatch variation where players are given 
 random weapons with unlimited ammo for a period of time.
  
  Painkiller does not have the humor that it's very present in Serious Sam, but it has hilarious 
 moments every time. If you have morbid humor, you'll laugh sometimes with Painkiller (I say look 
 at his arm flying! or ha! I ripped his *beep* leg! ) . To finish, I'm not saying that Painkiller 
 is better than Serious Sam, but I'm so pleased with the amount of content in this game that I can 
 now stop playing the oldies. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lorddessan91
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 7, 2007 10:31 pm PT
Review:  Yes, that's right, that game suck you in... yes it is mindless action, but this old school and that's 
 the point, shooting without thinking. There are some puzzles in the game. All bosses need some thinking 
 to kill, but they are easy, especially the last one, I thought he'll be hard :P. The graphics are also 
 pretty and well made and scary sometimes... When I played it I was, like... I couldn't stop, it was 
 so amazing... Also the heavy metal sound is CRUSHING... the idea of Black Taro cards is also great... But 
 the most great thing may are the weapons, they are most originaly made (a just love the Stake-weapon) . You 
 are also immortal at some point, because every enemy is droping its soul after you kill it and that 
 gives you 1 health point and as I said, there hundrets of enemies in a level so it's difficult to 
 die 
::::::

::::::
UserName: master_blue
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 19, 2007 11:57 am PT
Review:  Painkiller is a old school first person shooting game thats familiar with the old classics of FPS's 
 such as Doom and Serious Sam.
  
  The story of the game features you as Daniel Garner whom, having died in a car crash along with 
 his girlfriend has been given the oppertunity to kill some of lucifers generals thus preventing 
 a war between heaven and hell and for Garner to escape purgatory and meet up with his girl in heaven. 
 So you go around purgatory killing hordes of evil people and demons only for there to be a massive 
 plot twist involving lucifer and one of his generals!!
  Yes the storyline is this bad , but at least it gives you the oppertunity to go around killing 
 things - in a mindless action gameplay way.
  
  The gameplay is as I mentioned, mindless, you have a variety of interesting weapons most of which 
 have secondary firing modes and go through linera - but incredibly impressive and large levels 
 with some beautiful archetecture destroying satans minions and harvesting the souls left behind.
 
  
  And when you do start getting into fights, there are a hell of alot of enemies to deal with all 
 at once, sometimes nearing 50 in one segement making for some very frantic and fun fights, barely 
 anything tactical and nothing strategic though. Most enemies will drop in 2 or three hits although 
 the bigger monsters , which always equal tougher in this game take many more shots to bring down, 
 and when you do kill a monster sometimes they explode in a gory fashion which we've come to love 
 from the FPS genre.
  The weapons themselves feel powerful when your using them, the alternate weapon modes are actual 
 quite interesting at times, such as firing a staff end which fires a beam back to you, so you can 
 use it like a trip wire, except it actually cuts enemies up and then bring back the staff end and 
 use it as a grinder to really mess enemies up. Other alternate firing modes are more conventional, 
 such as secondary explosive ammunition etc. My favourite however is the humble stake gun, firing 
 the stake can often kill an enemy outright and pin their bodies to wall which I thought was a nice 
 touch.
  Also when you collect a hundred souls - a soul is what are left over from each dead enemy you yourself 
 turn into a demon and go on the rampage, the screen turns white and then everything is dull and 
 grey except enemies appear to you bright red like your using thermal vision (think something liek 
 Predator here) and each time you click attack you tear the enemy in the target cursor to pieces 
 in one go - most satisfying.
  Also there are special tarot cards you can collect, each one can be activated for a specific level 
 and confer special abilities unto you, eventually though you'll get to the boss battles, and the 
 bosses certainly are huge! they even dwarf the bosses in the likes of serious sam! But because 
 it is mindless action, you may find it getting repetitive if you play for too long a period, usually 
 I'd play 2 levels and have a break furthermore there are usually only a handful of enemy types 
 on a level so it can feel like your taking on a clone army, it would have been nice to see more 
 variety to the enemies you face on any given level.
  
  Graphically the game looks good, and it still does, not quite as great as the newer FPS that are 
 coming out but it has its own charms, character models may not have as fluid animations but most 
 look respectable today still and the havok physics in the game are used to good effect.
  What is most impressive about the game though - graphically speaking here offcourse, is the huge 
 levels with some beautiful archetecture, -my favourite being what I can only describe as the Hagia 
 Sophia with its minarets on the outside and huge interior, and other levels are equally impressive 
 such as siege of Stalingrad and the Theatre Hall.
  And also theres the equally impressive bosses which sometimes dwarf huge buildings themselves!
 
  Effects such as weapons being fired, blood and explosions look decent aswell cant really fault 
 it there.
  
  Sound wise, its a mix bag, the enemies shout guttaral nonsense at you which you cant usually make 
 out anyhow , guns and explosions sound ok cant fault them, the ambient music which plays when your 
 not under attack is particulary good , its usualy more peaceful but pretty creepy but as soon as 
 you see an enemy the heavy rock metal kicks in, which is pretty poor truth be told, it harks back 
 to some of the awful early 80's heavy metal rock which sometimes just felt like random noise - 
 still its better than slipknott.
  -I have to say thought the music choice for the crusade and stalingrad levels was well picked. 
 Overall I would say Painkiller is a good game, its mindless action fun so dont go expecting a storyline, 
 oddly enough its closer toa truer Doom III sequel than Doom III is itself (Doom was NEVER about 
 creating a survival horror situation NEVER) , graphically its still sharp and looks good, sound 
 wise its decent overall, its does the job for creating a suiting atmosphere and because its quite 
 a long game and its pretty fun just to have a blast through a level everynow and again it may last 
 you quite a while.
  Another thing I want to say though is that the patches for the game are insanely big - 350mb+ ok 
 its not as terrible as Medieval Total War 2's (650mb+) but it bears considering.
  
  Pros:
  .Non stop action fun
  .Weapons are decent
  .Ambient music is very good
  .Graphics 
 are still sharp
  .Some unique elements to the genre
  .Impressive level locations/archetecture
  .Impressive boss battles
  .Good game for the odd 
 replay session
  
  Cons:
  .terrible heavy metal music
  .Awful storyline .Whilst it is mindless action fun after a while you may find it repetitive
  
 .Lack of enemy types, only a few types per level. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rodrigo07
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 14, 2007 11:48 am PT
Review:  Then there's the flow of the levels themselves. There's a definite structure to the game. Enter 
 an area, and all the exits are sealed. You then fight off an impossibly large wave of enemies. 
 A path opens. You walk through and repeat the process over and over again. This could easily have 
 been a recipe for boredom, but Painkiller is an ingenious mix of unique adversaries paired against 
 a unique mix of weaponry.
  
  There are lots of different kinds of demons, each with a particular attack style. As you're often 
 never quite sure what you're going to encounter, you're constantly adjusting your battle strategies. 
 Even the boss monsters take a thoughtful approach if you wish to emerge victorious. Don't misunderstand. 
 Rainbow Six this ain't. But it takes a deep understanding of how your five weapons work to deal 
 as much damage as you can. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Meshuggah
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 6, 2007 10:42 pm PT
Review:  Yes, there are plenty of games out there with much better plots, and yes, there are games out there 
 with sharper graphics, but there are few FPS's that contain better gameplay. The FPS genre is my 
 favorite, and I own most all of them from recent years. You'll read on this site that an FPS is 
 only as good as its guns. Well, this game has some of the coolest, best feeling guns you'll find 
 in a game. The guns just *feel* right. The only shooters that have comparable (if not better) gunplay 
 in my opinion are FEAR and HL2, and I don't play those as much as I do this game. As others have 
 mentioned, there's no streamlined feel to the levels, and frankly, there doesn't need to be. You 
 can just boot it up, use the powermad mods, pick a random level to play, and have tons o' fun. 
 It's the best mindless shooter you'll ever play. The enemies aren't smart, and again, they don't 
 need to be. There is a fantastic variety of enemies that are just cool to view, and the volume 
 of them is enough to keep it challenging. If you just want to sit back and unload a massive amount 
 of grenades from the stake gun, you'll have loads of fun doing it. Oh, and in terms of physics, 
 this game arguably makes the best use of Havok that you'll see to date in a shooter. The way that 
 the bodies go flying and twist and turn also adds to the experience. I absolutely *love* Bioshock, 
 but if you want freezing/shooting of enemies done perfectly, this is your game. As others have 
 mentioned, the levels have a great look and feel to them. As others have also mentioned, the final 
 level, Hell, might be the most unique perspective on the subject you'll ever see. There are other 
 reviewers here who have said that the game is too straightforward, and I can see why they would 
 say that if you're referring to story/intelligent AI/gameplay as a package, but that really is 
 cutting the game short. It was obviously developed for a pure shooting experience, and it succeeds 
 in spades at doing just that. This is the strongest 9.0 that I could give to a game, and if I were 
 given the option to pick only one FPS out of all of them to keep, I'd have a very hard time picking 
 against this one. If you like FPS's, and have not yet given this one a try, you truly are missing 
 out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: allouh
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 26, 2007 9:14 am PT
Review:  the most enjoyable first-person shooter game i ever played, and when i got the expansion pack, 
 it adds more and more fun.
  i love this game
  the most enjoyable first-person shooter game i ever played, and when i got the expansion pack, 
 it adds more and more fun.
  i love this game
  the most enjoyable first-person shooter game i ever played, and when i got the expansion pack, 
 it adds more and more fun.
  i love this game
  the most enjoyable first-person shooter game i ever played, and when i got the expansion pack, 
 it adds more and more fun.
  i love this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zombieman666
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 15, 2007 4:26 pm PT
Review:  You like action, You'll love Painkiller.
  I've been falling behind on some of my reveiws, sorry, but I'm back to try and set some records 
 straight.
  I've read some reveiws that don't give this game its justice. First of all it's a Action, First-Person 
 Shooter ,You're supposed to run around and shoot things and blow stuff up, this game gives you 
 all that plus more.
  The graffics are awsome, you can't get bored with the environments, the details are way above average. The 
 sound is great too, cool soundtrack, probably won't get any awards, but cool. The A. I. isn't much, 
 but it reallydoesn't have to be, if you're there and demons are there, they're going to try and 
 kill you, you try and not let that happen, and take them out. The game does have a story to it, not 
 a bad one, but again probably no awards yet.
  My bottem line, without getting too carried away, the gameplay is great, it looks great, and for 
 a fast paced First-Person Shooter ( kinda along the lines of Halo ) , I would recommend this game 
 to anyone.
  Happy Hunting 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DragonOtaku7
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 20, 2007 11:35 pm PT
Review:  Painkiller is a wonderful, albeit slightly twisted little FPS released around 2K5 for the PC with 
 modest system requirements, an absurb / non-existant / story and bosses that could easily apply 
 for Shadow Of The Colossus.
  
  The premise is one that combines old school games with failures like Serious Sam 2. There, you 
 had insane swarms of enemies and died in 2 minutes on some levels. Here, you enter an arena, and 
 they GRADUALLY spawn on you, giving you time to breathe. The speed of your character is another 
 advantage (can be boosted even higher actually..) All in all, Painkiller is an insanely fun game 
 to play, it shouldn't cost mucb by now either, and those with mildly outdates pcs can enjoy some 
 good, solid, core FPS action at its' best!
  
  REVIEW TIME!
  
  GOOD : Graphics. While not stellar or stunning, the models and atmosphere are brilliant! I'm not 
 one to gawk at level designs, but when you go into a medieval castle and see the ballista, you 
 just know they took the time to create that authentic feel for the game. Crisp and sexy-clear models 
 also help . And trust me, you'll be blasting PLENTY of stuff from facerange :-D. Ten out of ten!
 
  
  Sounds : Creepy. Even monsters bursting from under the ground have an eerie sound. When in the 
 cemetary, it's deadly quiet, save for a few odd noises here and there ;-D. I love the shoot-reload 
 sound of the Stakegun, as well. Every monster also has a unique sound it moans so you can identify 
 what's coming up from behind you. Sexy! 8 out of 10.
  
  Music : Godly. Action-packed, sounds like rock and hard rock, and it does A WONDERFUL job. When 
 50 or so enemies are rushing you in quick succession in a big ass arena or opera house, the music 
 that rolls in the background gives you the adrenaline you need to make even messier work of those 
 monstaz :;-P. 8 out of 10 .
  
  Controls : I'm only praising them for including the standard WASD layout.. Controls are responsive 
 as well, and you can customize it however you want. 6 out of 10 .
  
  Original Concept : Black Tarots. By completing a level with a specific condition achieved, you 
 get what is called a Black Tarot Card. These are ones you can use to boost your stats. Silver cards 
 - you may carry 2 of these, they provide a constant level per level boost to your stats or abilities 
 without the need to activate them. Gold ones you can carry 3 of, but you must activate them in 
 the tightest spot possible (Boss battle anyone) to wipe up the floor with anybody you use it against 
 . Fits the theme, gives you insane godlike power if you use the right combinations of cards, and 
 it's just so pleasing to earn that card (Because it's a b**** to actually hunt for it XD) . 9 out 
 of 10.
  
  Action : No lack of that here! Checkpoints signal new areas that, 95% of the time, are gonna get 
 flooded by enemies pretty soon. The level where you start is kinda okay, you walk around, get a 
 shotgun, then skeletons pop up. No big deal. But later, infront of a huge dark chapel, enemies 
 are gonna rush you from both sides :-D. Then comes the variation. You'll get ranged attackers, 
 CURSE opponents (They drain your HP or slow you down dramatically so you can't move much..) , flying 
 ones, ones with huge stamina... you'll have to stay on your toes and use your guns as best as you 
 can to live through some of the waves. 10 out of 10 !
  
  Bosses / Boss Fights : Huge, nasty, evil, and except for the first one, always require a certain 
 trick to beat, which is more or less obvious. The first one has the charm of being huge, stupid, 
 and ugly (What a coincidence!) . Specifically, the Necrogiant is a boss you can take down with blind 
 fire anywhere on his body, but the others all have special conditions you have to meet to kill, 
 within the battle. They aren't presented in any fancy kickass way specifically, but they pose a 
 moderate challengem abd it's always fun to kill one of Lucifer's Generals ;-D. 7 ouf of 10!
  
  I AM GOD : Okay, so that one was a joke, but you can be. In this game, anything that dies, 
 drops a soul which is either green and worth 1 health point if absorbed, or red, and is worth 6. 
 Either one absorbed adds to your total souls counter, which, if it reaches 66, turns you into something 
 other than you. The vision expands and blurs, enemies become blood red patches of whatever on your 
 screen (PRedator anyone? XD) and the simple tap of your mouse button with the crosshair on them 
 makes them fall to pieces instantly, whatever the opponent. (Minus bosses, obviously)
  
  Now, that proves this game is sexy, correct? It has a few small bugs actually... here are the BAD 
 things.
  
  I'm not sure this is anyone or me but if you ever, in-game, get a window from Windows - like MSN 
 messenger or anything that priority-pops into your attention , you get alt-tabbed out of the game, 
 and going back, you freeze, losing your progress. LOVELY EH?! .... and this was with the latest, 
 1.64 patch.
  
  Some levels aren't exactly as straightforward as they should be. I'm thinking the opera house right 
 now. You're in a tiny alley-like area with a stairway leading down, cans and a fence with a lock. 
 normal player : Jumps over fence. Fails. shoots lock. Fails. Goes down stairs, fails. Looks up, 
 window FAR above what he can go up to. Now, there is ALSO a red closed-hatch thingy to the left. 
 Yes, you shoot that... took me half an hour to realize it &gt;- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: woozienebunu
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 20, 2007 12:21 am PT
Review:  Painkiller is a game which is sent out only for some people. The people like me who like senseless 
 killing of any creature. It is a pure ME WANNA KILL!!!!!!!! kind of game. But under this rusty shell 
 stands a explosive shooter.
  
  THE STORY
  You die in a car crash and are sent somewhere. God is very tired of doing everything and he sends 
 you to destroy the demonic armies of hell. From here you start and the game sends you  
 monsters +1 boss per chapter. You meet some additional characters but the story is weak.
  
  THE REST
  The graphics are excellent. You can't adress anything bad at them. The sound is present 
 and it's very dynamic (ROCK RULES) . Helps you to kill the monsters. The A. I is there but it's only 
 cannon-fodder and it dies easily. The bosses have their own special way to die but you'll figure 
 it out easily. The game can become boring but if you're a mad killer gone loose.. it won't be boring.
 
  
  THE END
  The end is ugly. I mean you beat Lucifer and Alastor who didn't die takes command of the armies 
 of hell. Well it has some bad parts, but Painkiller is sure worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sarnaath
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jun 3, 2007 10:33 am PT
Review:  I found it hard to like Painkiller. I generally love to explore every nook and cranny of FPS levels, 
 but PK was littered with difficult, technically challenging, jumping puzzles which I found exasperating. 
 The timing of clicking the mouse and executing a successful jumping pattern to normally inaccessible 
 places totally escaped me. So had to ignore that whole aspect of the game, which was rather disheartening.
 
  
  The core of the game, killing everything alive on each level, is generally a lot of fun. Some levels 
 really appealed to me for some reason, and some were just pure agony. The game also replenishes 
 your health after each section, which significantly dampens the edge the game otherwise might have 
 had.
  
  Old school bosses end each major section. Some are quite difficult to kill, and others are not 
 IF you can figure out how to do it. I ended up consulting walkthroughs on most of them only to 
 find out I was doing the right thing, or on the right path to figuring it out. The game, in my 
 judgement, just didn't give decent feedback on what you should be doing. There were also several 
 levels were I got stuck for 5-10 min because I couldn't find the next door. I don't usually have 
 that problem in FPS games. :P
  
  The cutscenes were stupid. In all the fighting and destruction in Limbo, Eve could take care of 
 herself wearing only a strip of white gauze? I almost uninstalled the game right there it was so 
 absurd. Really, in a FPS the last thing I expected was an almost naked lady talking tough about 
 demons, hell, and tactical strategy. I guess I appreciate subtly. I also thought the androgynous 
 angel who sends you on your grand mission was awfully snobby for a representative of Heaven.
  
  The game, overall, lacked cohesiveness. Nothing really tied the levels together. I realize 
 PK is a throwback to the days of Doom and Quake, but whereas Serious Sam elevated that style of 
 game to new heights, PK fails to really distinguish itself. It's another Doom with better graphics, 
 bigger bosses, and some cards and cash thrown in the mix to give it some dimension. You can ignore 
 the cards though, and forget about collecting all the little coins. None of that is critical to 
 finishing the game.
  
  In the end I thought the game was a decent FPS, not particularly engaging, at times fairly exasperating. 
 Reading what I've written so far, I guess the quality of the levels design did overcome the absurd 
 cutscenes and extraneous card and cash dimension, which says a lot. Oh, the last level was amazing. 
 Not the part with the battle with Lucifer, but right before with all the scenes of war and destruction 
 frozen in time. That was very cool to run though and explore. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SYdoggXxX
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 18, 2007 9:19 pm PT
Review:  I'll be honest right from the beginning of this review, I didn't like Painkiller at first. Before 
 I got started with the game, I knew about the old-school and simplistic approach to Painkiller's 
 design, but the first two levels were SO simplistic and lifeless, that I almost threw in the towel 
 and stopped playing. When I was done with the first room in the first level, I thought great, I'm 
 familiar with the gameplay mechanics and the simplistic combat style of the game, let's move on 
 to the good stuff . However, by the time I was done with the third room in the first level, my 
 thoughts became is the whole game going to be like this? . Unfortunately, the first two levels 
 did nothing to change my view of the game, and when I began playing the third level (in which the 
 first section follows the same pattern as the previous two levels) , I was almost sick of playing, 
 to the point I wanted to call it quits. But then I found the stakegun, and for the first time in 
 the game I was treated with a sequence that broke out of the ordinary (a fight across a dangling 
 rope bridge, where you could easily fall into oblivion) , and from then on, the game just got better 
 and better (with a couple of annoying kinks in the way) . Needless to say, I'm really glad that 
 I decided to keep going on despite my initial bad impressions, because this game turned out to 
 be one memorable ride.
  
  Like I mentioned previously, the simplistic gameplay is both Painkiller's biggest strength and 
 biggest weakness. While it can be fun to blast demons (with ragdoll physics and old-school gib 
 effects) for a while, eventually it can get tedious, and some variety is needed to keep things 
 interesting. This is where Painkiller's cool weapons and amazing level design come into play. The 
 stakegun is the most satisfying weapon to score kills with, as it can impale demons to walls or 
 other parts of the environment. It's not a good weapon for close encounters though, but that's 
 where the shotgun comes in and it will be your weapon of choice until you finally come across the 
 amazing chaingun (well, it's really a chaingun/rocket launcher combo) . This thing is just plain 
 cool, and it will be your main weapon in the latter stages of the game. The freezer that's attached 
 to your shotgun is also a neat weapon, as it allows you to paralyze tough demons before they kill 
 you (and of course, giving you the chance to kill them in one shot) . The electrodriver, while not 
 very effective, adds variety, and the rocket launcher is pretty self explanatory. All in all, the 
 wicked diversity in your arsenal makes the process of going through 300 demons in one level a lot 
 more fun.
  
  And speaking of levels, while the first 2 levels were a snoozefest, the rest of the levels in Painkiller 
 are award worthy. Ok, a couple aren't that great (mostly due to some frustrating sequences) , but 
 the environments are so varied and unique that they add another layer of enjoyment to the game. 
 Levels like The Asylum , Town , Military Base and the unbelievable awesome final level Hell (which 
 is not your typical depiction of hell) , are truly a sight to behold.
  
  The demon representations in Painkiller are also great. The demons in the first 2 levels are nothing 
 special (last time I complain about the first 2 levels, I promise) , but in subsequent levels you'll 
 meet zombie soldiers, lunatics, executioners, beasts, bikers, drunk freaks, ninjas, etc. Most of 
 them don't behave radically different, but they are still memorable. And much more memorable are 
 the game's bosses. These guys are just plain huge... really huge. The mere sight of them will probably 
 leave you in awe for a while. From Necrogiant, to Alastor, to Lucifer himself, all boss battles 
 offer you a giant freak that requires a bit of puzzle solving to defeat. There are also a few mini 
 bosses scattered through the main levels; mini in terms that they don't have a level of their own, 
 and that they rarely require a puzzle to be defeated, but not in terms of size.
  
  After you defeat each major boss, you'll be treated to a cutscene that moves along the story in 
 Painkiller. The story itself is pretty straightforward, and has no connection at all with the game 
 itself, but the cutscenes are fun to watch (especially the ones including Eve) .
  
  The game also offers a few twists to keep the formula fresh, such as the souls that your enemies 
 leave behind, which can help you recover your health. Also, after you collect a certain number 
 of souls, you'll morph into a demon and will have the ability to go on a rampage for a limited 
 amount of time. And then there is the tarot cards feature, which consists of a set of collectible 
 cards that you can obtain by meeting certain requirements through the levels, and can give you 
 lots of special abilities that you can use through the game.
  
  The presentation in Painkiller is overall great. The graphics are pretty impressive, with some 
 rich textures for both the weapon and character models, and some nice environment effects. Combined 
 with the amazing artistic design behind most levels, the visuals in Painkiller are superb. The 
 sound is also good, though not as impressive. The soundtrack consists of heavy metal tunes that 
 play while you're blasting demons, and the weapons sound appropriately loud. The coolest sound 
 effect however, is the voice you hear when you finish a level (at which point a white light will 
 appear signaling the exit) , which utters some strange things in an unrecognizable language, offering 
 a creepy and disturbing effect.
  
  Painkiller offers 4 different difficulty levels, each well suited for differently skilled players. 
 FPS veterans should jump straight into the Nightmare difficulty (the highest difficulty is Trauma 
 , but it's locked at the beginning of the game) , and once they finish a game in that difficulty 
 they have the option to start a Trauma game. However Trauma can be punishingly difficult, due to 
 some restrictions you'll meet, such as no souls to regain your health and the inability to save 
 the game at any given point (checkpoints are the only option) . The reward for finishing a Trauma 
 game is that you get to see a second final cutscene, that depicts the true ending of Painkiller. 
 To be honest, it's not worth going through the game again just to see that final cutscene, but 
 it's a nice reward should you decide to replay the game on the highest difficulty.
  
  Aside from the abysmal beginning and some frustrating sequences, Painkiller was a joy to play. 
 It's a game well worth the money, especially for those looking for some old-school action, and 
 a nice diversion from the more complex modern shooters. For people who crave story-driven games, 
 Painkiller can feel a bit flat, since it's just mindless shooting, but even so, the amazing level 
 design, ridiculous enemies, and humongous boss battles are something that can be enjoyed by anyone. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anyoneelse
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 19, 2007 9:39 pm PT
Review:  The game is quite simple actually, and very intuitive, you won't need much time to understand how 
 it works...
  The fact that this game is simple, doesn't mean that it's bored, in fact, if you can say something 
 about this game, is that is REALLY fun to play.
  
  Personally I found it rather easy, didn't had much problem to go through the game, the hard part 
 is to make it the best you can, that's quite a challenge, but finishing the game it's easy. Another 
 big time difficulty, is when you try to complete the game, with all the secrets and stuff, that's 
 the real challenge of the game.
  
  It's a game you would love to play again, try to unlock or reveal all the secrets. When you re-play 
 the game, you'll find a bunch of new stuff to do, new difficulties, another whole new game. So 
 that's definitely a big time plus. And if that doesn't motivate you to play it once again, you'll 
 always want to play it, at least for a little while, because it's really fun when you start shooting 
 everything that moves, and to know, that there will be even more targets to destroy.
  
  One of the main characteristics of the game, is that you get the chance to kill a lot, but I mean 
 a LOT of enemies along the way, which at least for me, it's a great thing. Enemies tend to die 
 rather easily, but it's the numbers you'll have to start worrying about.
  
  The graphics are great, at least for the year 2004, cinematics are great to, and equally fun to 
 watch.
  
  The sound it's ok, nothing exceptional, but you won't get sick of it, but you won't be looking 
 over the Internet for the OST (original sound track) of the game.
  
  You won't find any problems with the gameplay, but nothing new, revolutionary or extremely cool. 
 You will find a great FPS (first person shooter) all the way through the game.
  
  Hope you enjoy... 'cause I know I did :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VercettiTommyy
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 19, 2007 12:21 pm PT
Review:  Painkiller is a serious Serious Sam clone without Sam. By dieing, take Heaven's side on the battle 
 with Hell's forces. First things first. The graphics are simply superb. Everything beautifly detailed 
 &amp; with great textures,&amp; with the best phisic engine, Havok, Painkiller-Heaven, s got a Hitman 
 was one of the best-looking FPS-s in it's time. As sound I know two things: music-hard rock orchestration, perfect 
 atmosphere &amp; never boring,&amp; the great sound effects. Objectives: kill 'em all! About 6 weapons 
 with primary &amp; secondary fire. i love the stick gun, I like hanging them with sticks on walls. The 
 ice fire ,&amp; after it a good shotgun breaks them &amp; makes them rest in peaces. The spinning 
 star that can be trown too, the minigun combined with rocket launcher, plasma &amp; sharp stars launcher 
 are the weapons. Enamies? A lot, not funny but they didn't manage to scare me. Skeletons, wiches, etc, 
 &amp; the bosses. Even though it's good, the gameplay is not better than the one in Serious Sam. But 
 Painkiller is a great game &amp; a good start for Havok. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 43n1m4
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 21, 2007 1:34 am PT
Review:  I have tried the first 80+ fps titles, and very few of them had the impact of Painkiller.
  
  Its not because Painkiller tries something new, because it doesn't. It's not the original setting, 
 because fighting the forces of hell isn't exactly new stuff.
  
  No, its about taking all the clich&eacute; s of FPS games, mix them with straightforward - but very 
 fast - gameplay mechanisms and a good portion of gothic atmosphere, and you have an adrenaline 
 pushing fps title with all the topping you need.
  
  The art direction of this game has to be mentioned, as the gothic scenery is very well designed, 
 the monsters sometimes scary, the end of level monsters huge (in the gargantuan sense of the word) 
 and the sound - well. Its rare that the ambient sounds of a fps gets scary, but in the midst of 
 the dark humor, the straightforward battles and the search for extras, you'll sometimes hear whispers 
 or sounds that'll shiver your spine.
  
  When you shoot enemies, they'll end up as souls that you can absorb (by running over the souls) 
 - these souls give you +1 to health, and if you absorb around 64 souls, you'll morph into an invincible 
 demon for a short period of time. A nice little feature, that will make the game last even longer, 
 is the collectable tarot cards. To get them, you'll have to complete the levels in various ways 
 - some requires you to complete a level with only one specific weapon, and others require you to 
 find every secret place on the map etc. In exchange you'll receive tarot cards, which will improve 
 your health, or some of them can be used to boost your fighting prowess for a limited period of 
 time (like slowing time, increasing damage or even make you invulnerable) . Some of these cards 
 are very hard to get though, so don't expect to get every single card in the game without online 
 walkthroughs and spending a lot of time.
  
  Its not a necessary part of the game, though. So consider this as 'bonus' content.
  
  Somehow 
 the programmers managed to make this beautiful game run smooth, even on modest hardware, which 
 is even more impressive. Of course, if you have newer GPU hardware the patches 1.61-1.64 adds more 
 shader effects (mainly to the texture surfaces) .
  
  So basically Painkiller isn't exactly breaking new ground, but the inspired scenery combined with 
 truly excellent action fps gameplay make this game a must for beginner as well as hardcore shooter 
 fans.
  
  A quick tip to multicore users: If the game runs laggy or , try to run it in win98/me compatible 
 mode, as that will make the game run on one core only (as it was designed to) - this improved my 
 experience drastically on both XP pro and Vista. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeDuff
Rating: 8.2
Date: Apr 8, 2007 2:37 pm PT
Review:  No tactics nothing but mindless violence if u like to see blood going everywhere this could get 
 u going.
  
  this game is great but then again 1 flaw the levels dont make sense its just a few levels then 
 a boss there isn't any storyline its js sum random guy running around blowin sum jobbys up its 
 fun theres 1 flaw thts really the height of it but then again there isnt much more fun than shooting 
 a zombie into the wall with a steam inpaler as i call in ( if u play the game ull no wht im tlkin 
 about) i was hoing 4 summit a bit more scary and mysterious the game IS worth it
  
  but ther isnt much 2 it a few levels a few bosses not really tht hard but altogether its a great 
 game not a MUST HAVE but its good 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JOE714
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 5, 2007 11:49 am PT
Review:  First and foremost, Painkiller contains some of the prettiest images of the most awful places you 
 can imagine in any run-and-gun shooter on store shelves even today. The number of times I simply 
 stopped (when I could; Purgatorys invaders dont pause to rest much, not that Im complaining) 
 and took in the scenery surrounding the snow-encrusted crenellations of a collapsing castle or 
 the sheer spaciousness of a military base haunted by grunts long gone was much higher than my usual 
 in-game ruminations. Many of the screenshots of Painkillers changing styles of architecture and 
 visceral clashes are worthy of desktop wallpaper or the cover of Heavy Metal magazine. I havent 
 spent so much time poring over the various unfortunate aspects of the games convincingly menacing 
 and hideously creative monsters since Undyings slavering menagerie. The fact that the game could 
 render such intricate surroundings and Havok-powered animation to their absolute maximum level 
 of detail with nary a hitch in the framerate on my modestly-powered rig was equally astounding.
 
  
  Although Im easily impressed by shiny objects and majestic vistas, twenty-five levels of run-and-gun 
 mayhem wont amount to squat if the gameplay isnt right, but Im pleased to say that Painkiller 
 scored incredibly high marks in that area, as well. Every dual-purpose weapon was a joy to use 
 in its own way: whether lobbing some grenades at the feet of a large crowd of roaring corpses and 
 then pinning those that remain to the nearest wall or, my favorite, flash-freezing a rampaging 
 demon and then shattering the crystalline statue that remains, I suspect that most players will 
 try a little bit of everything in their arsenal, particularly on the harder levels when ammo is 
 at more of a premium.
  
  The folks at People Can Fly smartly recognized that barreling into one crowd of revenants after 
 another can grow boring no matter how many methods of destruction are provided, so they added a 
 little something that really appealed to my inner-OCD: magic Tarot cards. Much like my love for 
 receiving rewards for being a good boy, I appreciate the gift of several seconds of bullet-time 
 for having nabbed a certain number (or none at all) of the phantasmal puffs of ectoplasm left behind 
 by every fallen foe. I obediently refrained from using grenades and rockets on certain levels or 
 exclusively kept the spinning blades of my Painkiller toy unholstered to earn skills that ranged 
 from indescribably useful (like damage enhancers or the aforementioned slo-mo powerup) to quirky 
 and/or totally optional (like the Confusion modifier that sparks an all-out brawl among enemies) . 
 I cant accurately recall how many times I tried bunny-hopping across a deadly canal for a sparkly 
 chalice or scurried around fetching spilt currency in the midst of battle to keep my collection 
 of active and passive powers in constant rotation.
  
  Out of all of the games positives, Painkillers most notable dark spot is found in all of that 
 doggone leaping and skipping for prizes that I mentioned earlier. However, even that point of frustration 
 was mitigated greatly once I learned how to exploit the subtle curvature of a wall or a block of 
 debris when scampering up to seemingly unreachable niches and shelves. Still, I was certain that 
 I would wear out my right mouse button by the time I reached the tragic tableaus of the astonishingly 
 cool final level. I heartily recommend this title for anyone who enjoys heart-slamming pitched 
 battles that leave them with a handful of hit points and a taste for even more corrupted blood. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GunnyHath
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 24, 2007 10:42 am PT
Review:  Painkiller epitomizes of the eternal struggle between good and evil, while involving the player 
 in a constant struggle to survive the hordes of hell en masse. Your mission is to slay the four 
 generals of Lucifers army to prevent a direct assault on heaven.
  
  You play Daniel, a man cast into a place between heaven and hell, given the task of saving eternity. 
 Your struggle to destroy the four generals of Lucifers army will take you to the edges of insanity, 
 both figuratively and literally. The game play is quite addictive and its fast action style will 
 keep you on the edge of your seat as you battle dozens upon dozens of seemingly endless enemies. 
 Mixed into the fray are many secret areas, destructible items (courtesy of the Havok 2.0 physics 
 engine) , and imaginative levels. By far the most impressive and amazing thing in Painkiller are 
 the bosses. Immense only begins to describe them. Picture yourself, an average 58 male, coming 
 up to the toenail of a foe, which just happens to want to squish you any way possible. One such 
 boss is the Necrogiant, who by my estimation looks to stand about 70 feet high. On top of the huge 
 mass, the bosses each have a power or two up their sleeve; for instance Necrogiant can create 
 a tornado that flings you into the air hurting you constantly and then drops you hurting you even 
 more. Needless to say, the sheer amount of enemies coming at you, the giant bosses, and the tricky 
 landscapes to navigate make for some very challenging game play. The weapons in Painkiller all 
 have two functions, that are drastically different, none of this shotgun with one shot or two shots 
 at a time. Painkillers shotgun comes bundled with a liquid nitrogen blast that freezes an enemy 
 making a tempting target to shatter. The most unique weapon in Painkiller is the aptly named Painkiller, 
 which is multiple spinning blades on primary and a flying grapple type device that injures or flings 
 enemies toward you if they die. The Painkiller also works on items, based on weight etc according 
 to the Havok 2.0 engine. During your conquest of Lucifers army, youll acquire tarot cards, depending 
 on if you satisfied the requirement the level has been assigned; for example finding every secret, 
 getting minimum 500 gold, using only the stake gun etc. These cards give you special bonuses, like 
 reloading faster, if you put them into play by paying the required gold amount before the level 
 starts. These can be beneficial for getting other cards, for example by aiding you in beating Necrogiant 
 in less than 2 minutes; you get another more powerful card. By far my favorite part of Painkiller 
 is the stake gun coupled with the Havok 2.0 physics engine it becomes an amazingly fun weapon. 
 The stake will stick into anything, including solid cement/marble walls, and enemies. If youre 
 good you can pin an enemy to a wall with the stake or even pin two enemies together. I once shot 
 a skeletal zombie in the head and the stake hit the head of the zombie behind him, they fell down 
 dead together like a lump, which was very satisfying. In Painkiller you dont see the same boring 
 death animation over and over, it all happens based on the Havok 2.0 physics engine, bodies crumple 
 or explode based on the weapon and health of the enemy and damage given. All in all the game play 
 is great and re-playable for fans of the Quake or Unreal series of games.
  
  The graphics in Painkiller, while not top notch Doom 3 or Far Cry quality, are quite detailed and 
 offer nothing that displeases the eye. The lighting and modeling seem quite good, with the lighting 
 being slightly better. Putting a stake through a jumping Ninja and watching him do five back flips 
 mid air was hilarious. Firing a stake into a brick wall, it will leave cracks around the part where 
 it hit, and if you fire one into a thin pillar, it will stick out the other side. Little things 
 like this add realism, and it doesnt look fake or unbelievable like games of the past.
  
  The sound in Painkiller was great. The thunk of a stake hitting wood or an enemys armor, the whistle 
 of a ninja star flying past your head, or the scream of a fallen foe with a stake jutting through 
 his middle and out his back, all sound as though they should. My only complaint would be some of 
 the enemy battle cries can get repetitive and annoying in later levels when there are literally 
 fifty or sixty coming at you at once. The little things like fire and landing squishy body parts 
 that a zombie threw at you are all adding realism which makes it more fun to experience. Good sound, 
 just repetitive at times. What I think games need to do is make the sound as in depth as the physics 
 engine. If a body can rag doll why cant a sound change in real time based on what it reflects 
 off from point A to point B. Say a tunnel made of different materials, with wooden beams supporting 
 concrete walls, the sound would change pitch and density based on distance and materials. Current 
 engines probably cant handle this, but I hope someday with Audigy 2 ZS type cards, 7.1 surround, 
 and new game engines will try to make this reality. As good as audio is in games, I feel it is 
 integral in recreating reality.
  
  The replay value in Painkiller depends on your view of these types of mindless mayhem games. If 
 your style is fast reflexes, fast action, and satisfying physics and deaths, then you will love 
 re-playing Painkiller again and again. The multiplayer looks to be a lot of fun as well, also adding 
 a lot of play time. The tarot cards and special bonuses, the secrets and the bosses alone will 
 make this game fun for a long time to come.
  
  I thoroughly enjoyed Painkillers game play, weapons, enemies, and levels. Its a game I will prize 
 in my collection, and rated probably in my top 20 FPS list thus far. I recommend it to anyone who 
 liked Quake, Unreal, UT, or Serious Sam. See if you can stop the armies of hell. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dozzpot
Rating: 8.1
Date: Feb 9, 2007 5:47 am PT
Review:  As shooters go I do not normally like mindless fantasy shoot-ups and prefer reality based military 
 games such as CoD, MoH, GRAW, etc. - you know the usual ones.
  In Painkiller there is a fairly daft story (if you can call it that) and no link between levels 
 so it's all rather pointless really. However, that doesn't stop it being an absolute riot! The 
 levels are great, the weapons are awesome and the beasties come in all shapes and sizes. Boss fights 
 with something that fills the screen and goes up into the sky are something else. Only HalfLife 
 (1) gives me more jumps and scares. Also, the graphics, sound (excellent metal fight music - if 
 you want it on) and stability are top notch.
  However, I found one big problem with this game:
  You can do each mission in sequence but to 
 finish the game properly you have to perform specific tasks on each level in order to collect a 
 magic tarot card for each one. Not only do you only finish the game by collecting the cards, you 
 can select them to give you special powers on subsequent levels. And so you finish the game. But 
 you don't. This is because once you get to the 'end' this allows you to unlock other levels that 
 you haven't played before. But you have to repeat certain levels that you played the first time 
 around (only on a harder setting) to reach them. This happens a second time before you can truly 
 say you have finished the game and played all the levels, which means you play the same old levels 
 up to 3 times (not all, but some) .
  If you are like me and you play a game to death when you get hold of it, by the time you get to 
 the 'real' end of Painkiller (there are two endings to the story) you are sick of it. This is a 
 real shame as I loved it to start with and while I like to choose to repeat levels if I want to 
 (I don't know how many times I played the disturbing 'Asylum' level) , being forced to play the 
 same ones over really killed it for me. The same is true of the expansion pack only they do it 
 a different way by making it impossible to collect all the cards at the first go so you have to 
 play and play to collect enough gold (needed to place the cards for special powers) to go back 
 to play some levels again when you can afford to place the other tarot cards that give you special 
 powers that help you collect the ones you are after.
  I got so fed up I never finished the expanison pack. Shame that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GroundBomber
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 5, 2007 12:17 pm PT
Review:  Painkiller was something extraordinary for me, though some people will say that it just like ut2004 
 grab your gun and rock and boom all them monsters.
  Well it's not just that, you have some minor goals you can achieve to unlock special throat cards 
 that gives you ultimate abilities like Haste, taking half of damage, Invulnerable and more... the 
 movies between each 1 Main level (each main level divided to 4-5 sub levels to complete the experience 
 of the game at the different locations ) aren't the best but they emphasize the story well.
  the gameplay defiantly 10, it can be boring at the first 2-5 minutes but once you get into it you 
 won't leave it, you shut gun will help you blast your way through the game, the environments changes 
 very frequently unlike Doom III, Painkiller designers did great job on the locations, they are 
 very varied and gives you feeling that you really in the game...
  to sum it all up the game worth buying, totally one of the best games that you can ever play... 
 HIGHLY RECOMMENDED. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BentSea
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 18, 2007 10:31 am PT
Review:  Highs: Intense. Lots and Lots to shoot in fun extremely well designed levels with deep care and 
 dripping polish in every location. Someone put a lot of love into this game, which is funny when 
 you consider how much love you dish out every level. Im talking about mini-gun/rocket launcher 
 love. The atmosphere is thick and the baddies are fun to waste. The story line is thin and doesnt 
 get in the way of the focus of the game.
  
  Lows: Very disjointed feel between levels. A very focused style of game, Painkiller definitely 
 isnt for every gamer by a long shot. I say it now, if you dont enjoy a pure shooter, where the 
 focus of every single minute of gameplay is unloading rounds into baddies, this game is not for 
 you.
  
  Shooter fans: This may be one of the purest games of this year. It is a quality is above reproach, 
 and may very well be the best game of its kind for the year. If youre looking to buy a game, this 
 is worth every penny.
  
  FPS fans: Youll like this game a lot, it youll like this game a lot, itll be worth the forty, 
 but there are probably other games youll like more if shooters arent your focus.
  
  Everyone else: This one is a good one to try if the genre appeals to you, but I wouldnt waste 
 my cash paying full price if I were you. Wait till its in the bargain bin.
  
  Painkiller feels like it could be about ten years old if you judge it by its gameplay. Sure, People 
 Can Fly polished it up with a pretty graphics engine and threw in some wicked physics thanks to 
 the notorious Havok physics engine present in so many of todays more popular game titles. But 
 rather than feeling like a tired old game that you played back in the 80s or 90s, Painkiller feels 
 like a refreshing visit to an old friends house, full of refreshing memory triggering nostalgic 
 events.
  
  This game is a shooter. It does this one thing, letting you shoot things, flawlessly. Normally 
 it is hard to recommend a game based on a single selling point; however Painkiller has been so 
 flawlessly executed that its gameplay is a lone solid reason to buy the game. This is why it feels 
 so much like a game that is ten years old. I honestly cannot remember the last game I played with 
 a single, genre defined, focus that was wrapped up in a complete package by itself and polished 
 into its own product.
  
  One of the more interesting things about Painkiller is that it is in part defined almost as much 
 by what isnt there as what is there. For one, there is no link present between any of the levels 
 within the game. As Daniel Garner, heavens hitman, travels from level to eerily ambient level, 
 blowing hells minions away, it will not seem important that none of the levels have anything to 
 do with each other. While the flow and design and connectivity is excellent within each level, 
 you will none the less move from abandoned midievil towns loaded with slow moving self mutilating 
 zombies to abandoned train stations filled with world war I soldier zombies, to modern day abandoned 
 docks with freight ships and massive cranes filled with Chinese-star shooting beer bellied thugs. 
 In fact, the only two points that all the levels in Painkiller share are that they have been abandoned 
 by everything but evil, and each of them sports absolutely massive, heavy emphasis on massive, 
 architecture and often equally massive beasts.
  
  The bosses are a selling point. They are respectable enough fare for Satan to use as generals in 
 his army. While they ended up being as funny to fight as they were impressive and enjoyable. A 
 few of the larger and less puzzle oriented bosses leave you standing beneath them most of the fight 
 shooting straight up at their genital-less midsections. All the same they very rarely offered a 
 more than adequate challenge or a less than adequate one, often the fights were just right. It 
 should not need to be said that the difficulty levels are there for people who do feel the normal 
 difficulty not challenging enough.
  
  One of the purest principles of building a game is building is rewarding players for successful 
 achievement of goals. If you finish the level, then you move on. In Painkiller you are also given 
 an extra challenge in every level, such as finish without picking up power-ups, or using armor, 
 or without ever having less than 50 health points. Completing a level and successfully accomplishing 
 one of these tasks will reward you with a gold or black tarot card, which you can apply to yourself. 
 The gold tarot cards will have a constant effect of some sort, such as start the level with 150 
 health points, or use black cards twice. The black tarot cards are implemented at the time of your 
 choosing and have a limited life, once theyre used, unless youre using a gold tarot card that 
 lets you use them more than once, theyre used.
  
  The biggest pitfall in the Painkiller structure is the same simplistic nature that makes it so 
 appealing. Once youre done with it, youre left without enough memories that are unique enough, 
 or enough really truly memorable moments to go back and replay the game. While youre playing it, 
 youll play it to death, you may even beat it two or three times for the sake of tarot cards and 
 more fun on the harder modes. But when you shelve that sucker for another game afterward, it may 
 very well be shelved for good.
  
  Part of this is aided and embedded by the fact that aside from the single player game, there really 
 isnt much else in the package. You get multiplayer, but it feels a lot like its mostly there 
 for the sake of being there. The whole experience is very Quake-like and with so many other games 
 with more players on them and more rewarding multiplayer features already built into them, as well 
 as the old style which makes for nice throwback from time to time, so that you have some choice. 
 Multiplayer ultimately feels inconsequential and adds no value to the game.
  
  Painkiller is a beautiful game; although, its drawbacks and focused gameplay keep it from being 
 for everyone. Make sure you know what youre buying when you pick up this game. But if you know 
 what youre buying and making and informed decision when you buy this, then youre in for a lot 
 of good fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stratman23
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 5, 2007 6:04 pm PT
Review:  I love Painkiller!!! It was recommended to me by the members here at Gamespot when I posed the 
 question: If I wanted to play a game just to blow off steam very quickly and start killing things 
 and blowing stuff as soon as possible, which game should I start playing.
  
  Two games kept being mentioned. The first: Unreal Tournament 2004, and the second: Painkiller. 
 I must say that both delivered in a most excellent way. These are the type of games that you don't 
 have to give yourself a headache trying to figure out puzzles or clues to have fun within the game.
 
  
  Instead, you just throw open the door and start shooting, and shooting, and shooting!!! Don't be 
 deceived though. Both games take a lot of skill if you really want to be good. But they don't take 
 too much skill if you just want to get your kill on and vent all all of your stress, anger and 
 rage in an appropriate arena.
  
  Painkiller rocks, so if you want a fun and fast game... get it..... and kill.
  
  Peace, StratMan23 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: salmaan_khaan
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 19, 2006 4:14 am PT
Review:  its owesome to play this game. i was waiting for such game from a long time and it has proven itself 
 in no time. the most important part of the game is the story line i really love the way the game 
 starts and moved to the next level plus the animation effects level design anfd MUSIC. painkiller 
 puts you in a place where u feel that you are really not gonna survive if you stop fighting against 
 an army even HE cannot fight himself. ALL the elements are put together in a sequantial manner 
 and as the game moves forward you find more interest in playing the next level. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mirai_Trunks
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 11, 2006 6:58 pm PT
Review:  Good: Stake Gun is awesome; Boss battles are really epic; plenty of guns to choose from; enemies 
 are varied and spooky; settings are very dark and gothic, which is perfect for this type of game; 
 demon mode is fun to use; Levels are wide and varied; Physics engine in this game is pretty awesome; 
 PC makes great use of the controls.
  
  Bad: Graphics are OK, but arent anything special; Sound is also average, so it is nothing you will 
 really remember; enemy AI is at some points, stupid; I want this game to be longer, but I guess 
 thats what expansion packs are for in this case.
  
  Painkiller came completely out of the blue for me. It went unnoticed for most people too. But when 
 you sit down and play it, you will discover a true gem. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dummiesday
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 24, 2006 7:39 am PT
Review:  Painkiller is an obvious nod to games like Doom or Duke Nukem 3D. It won't emburden your gaming 
 experience with things like reloading guns, getting into prone position or weird stealth technology. 
 Painkiller's pace is fast, crude and mainly a lot of fun.
  
  Your silent character, Daniel Garner, must advance through eerie and dangerous landscapes filled 
 with strange monsters from hell. To acomplish this mission he will have the help of 5 surreal weapons, 
 which will allow you to electrify, gun down or chop to bits your enemies.
  
  Gameplay - 9
  This is where Painkiller really shines. The gameplay consists of blasting away, 
 impaling and chopping all the hordes from. Pure run and gun. Sonds fun? It sure is. Weapons are 
 unique and seem powerful. You will be glued to the screen as you try to dispatch a squad of 20+ 
 enemies chasing you. When you finally make it, you will feel that you have surpassed some kind 
 of epic challenge.
  
  Graphics - 9
  The levels are really well designed and are very original. You will visit opera houses, sanitariums 
 and frozen battlefields, but there is a coherence which surrounds the vast range of scenarios - 
 it's like the nightmare of a madman. The physics engine is amazing - you can't help but smile when 
 you see a small army of nazi undead soldiers being blown away by one of your rockets. Enemies fall, 
 things explode. Enemies explode. You have to see it to believe it. Although there can be a quite 
 large number of enemies in screen at once the game won't lag for a bit.
  
  Sound - 7
  Monsters groan, barrels explode convincingly and your weapons sound cool. Everything seems to be 
 just right. There was nothing that made me jump off my seat screaming in agony, though.
  
  Fun- 10
  From the masses of monsters to the massive bosses, you will enjoy this game like you 
 haven't done in a long while. Enemies interact with each other amusingly: I have seen two of them 
 fight to death because one punched the other accidently. Sometimes you will freeze a guy with your 
 weapon and a lost bullet from an enemy will make him explode into bits. Heck, how fun can it be 
 to impale a demented zombie who ignores the laws of gravity... to the very ceiling? Who can resist 
 to take down a huge, flying demon, only to see in astonishment how he impacts against the floor 
 taking you to the previous floor? How can you not like to tear apart dozens of medieval knights 
 with your Painkiller weapon, which compares to a blender on steroids?
  
  All in all, do yourself a favor and run to buy this game. You will most likely remember why you 
 came to enjoy video games in the first place. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pinkyimp
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 22, 2006 10:26 am PT
Review:  great game one of the best FPS ive played in a couple of months and i enjoyed every single moment 
 of this game altuough the multiplayer is not being played by anyone anymore it still is a good 
 singleplayer that any FPS fan would enjoy
  
  Pros
  -Good graphics
  -Good multiplayer
  -Great story
  -Fantastic weapons -Beutiflul enviroments
  
  Cons
  -Multiplayer is not supported 
 anymore -no real reason to play it again (i did its fun!)
  -u dont rly care about the story it just mostly mindless shooting
  -no real complex bosses eather
 
  
  overall i give this game a 9.5 because its good and there are more pros then cons i enjoyed this 
 game alot 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MallratsJaySB
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 19, 2006 3:11 pm PT
Review:  Painkiller reminds me of the original Doom games. There is literally nothing to the game besides 
 blasting anything and everything that is moving. There is little to no depth to this game............. but 
 boy is it fun. While Doom 3 was a competent game and better than a lot of people had hoped for, 
 they decided to make the games less frantic and try to build tension and fear, which ultimately 
 didn't work. Painkiller lives up to what we all hoped Doom 3 would be. It doesn't bother with tension 
 or scares and just throws thousands upon thousands of enemies at you to blow up and it works amazingly 
 well. You are Daniel Garner. You're just a normal guy with a wife, a house, and a job, when one 
 rainy night on the way to dinner with your wife, you get in a terrible automobile accident. You 
 and your wife both perish in the wreckage. Your wife is taken to Heaven while you are sent to purgatory. 
 Your life did not deserve eternal punishment in Hell, but neither did it deserve eternal grace 
 and tranquility and Heaven. You are told that the only way to get to Heaven and see your wife again 
 is to take on the hordes of Hell. There is a Holy War going on between Heaven and Hell and Lucifer 
 has demons making their way through purgatory to eventually find their way to Heaven and you must 
 stop them. It's actually a rather good story for a game of this type. The cutscenes are few and 
 far between, but when they are there, they do their job quite efficiently.
  
  The gameplay will feel reminiscent to anyone that has ever played a first person shooter. The only 
 goal in every level is to eliminate every single demon and believe me, you will be killing EVERY 
 single one. Usually, you will walk into a room or environment and the doors will close off and 
 you will be forced to fight your way through the devil's hordes of demons. Once they are all dead, 
 you can keep on going trying to make your way to the entrance of Hell. You'd think that constant 
 frantic shooting would get boring really quick, but surprisingly, this game manages to stay fresh 
 well up to the last level. The over the top physics engine in this game is just so good that every 
 single time you blow a demon to pieces or shoot them off of a building or what have you, you will 
 have a sinister smirk across your face. But there are only 5 guns in this game, all of which you 
 get fairly early on. The only one that is impressive is the half chaingun, half rocket launcher, 
 but without a wide array of weaponry, there isn't much to look forward to. But this is my only 
 real complaint. The best part of the gameplay is the bosses. The bosses in Painkiller are gargantuan. 
 They are by far the hugest bosses I've ever had to face in a video game and once you take them 
 down, not only will you heave a big sigh of relief, you will also be proud of yourself and have 
 new found confidence in taking on the next enemies. Most of the bosses have a certain puzzle element 
 to them and you can't just damage them head on by shooting them which adds a nice diversion to 
 the no brain shooting in other levels. The gameplay handles perfectly, is incredibly fun, and is 
 all around solid.
  
  The graphics are also superb. The levels and enemies look amazing. Although there aren't an awful 
 lot of enemies to shoot at, they all look frightful and awesome. There are skeletons, wizards, 
 hooded dudes with butcher knives, little hobbit looking people (ok that one's not all that frightful) , 
 and others. When you then proceed to blow their head off, it still looks great. Blood splatters 
 everywhere and body parts fly through the air. In a confined hallway once, a whole boat load of 
 enemies were charging me, so I pulled out my rocket launcher and blew every single one of them 
 up in one shot. The hallway changed from gray and blue to solid red. It was gruesome, disgusting, 
 and sinfully entertaining. It looked great. The levels also look very well, but the last one looks 
 the best. SPOILERS. The last level, Hell, is amazing. While searching for Lucifer, you will come 
 across lots of images of terrible things that have happened in our history, but they are all frozen 
 in time. You will see trenches from the wars with all of the guns and knives floating in the air. 
 You will also come across a giant ocean with the Titanic halfway submerged in the freezing water 
 among other things. It's breathtaking, looks amazing, and is down right creepy as well. END SPOILERS. 
 My only problem with the graphics are the cutscenes after each chapter. They look good no doubt, 
 but they could look a whole lot better. I understand they are supposed to look dark and gritty 
 since you are in either purgatory or Hell, but they don't look as polished as they should. Also 
 I have noticed some clipping in various instances of the game, but it's nothing to drag down your 
 overall enjoyment of the game. The graphics look amazing despite a few technical problems.
  
  The sound is also very well done. The guns sound awesome and powerful, as do the explosions. 
 The various demonic sounds and laughs also fit the bill nicely and help add that unsettling feeling 
 that games like this need. The voice acting is also surprisingly well done and much better than 
 what most people would expect from a game of this type. The music was also very good. When you 
 are fighting in a battle, heavy metal music kicks in and goes crazy. You'll hear the usual scratches, 
 squeals, and slides you would expect to hear from a good metal band, and since I love metal, I 
 loved this aspect of the game. Unfortunately, there were only a handful of tunes and they started 
 to repeat fairly early in the game. Although I thought the sound was done fairly well, it just 
 wasn't perfect. It was hard for me to put my finger on just exactly what was the problem, but it 
 just didn't put that sense of immersion into me.
  
  All in all, this game is the best first person shooter I've played in years. It's great to play 
 all the way through as well as just a level or two to let out some steam. The gameplay is frantic, 
 chaotic, insane, fast, addicting, and fun as hell. The graphics are just as well done with awesome 
 looking enemies and levels. All of this combines to help make Painkiller an instant classic with 
 first person shooter fans and a game that everyone should have in their collections. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reevo3000
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 10, 2006 12:53 pm PT
Review:  I am currently playing 2 games, Oblivion Elder Scrolls and Painkiller. Granted, Oblivion is a great 
 great game with depth and a great storyline, but if I am ever short of entertainment, there is 
 nothing better than putting Painkiller on and just blasting the hell out of various mutants and 
 monsters.
  
  The game will run GREAT, even an older machine, and the graphics still hold up today, especially 
 the impressive town level, where you roam the streets of a burning town, looking like, what I imagine, 
 the great fire of London would look like...... but without the killer mutants.
  
  The storyline is almost none existent during the game but this does not matter at all. The cut 
 scenes after the levels are mearly a rest from the constant brutality which is frequent, fun and 
 bloody.
  
  If I had to point out one downside to this game it is the lack of varied weapons, even more of 
 a shame as the weapons they have included are awesome, especially the Stake Gun where you can literally 
 pin enemies to a nearby wall, roof, floor or even another baddy!!!!!!
  
  So, to finalise, if you are buying a game for pure fun, GET THIS, or if you are a fan of the great 
 original Doom series, GET THIS, or if you want to see lots and lots of enemies being ripped to 
 shreads.... GET THIS!
  
  Great game for only &pound;5 (&pound;10 with the Painkiller: Battle out of Hell expansion) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Eericpoop
Rating: 5.2
Date: Sep 2, 2006 8:37 pm PT
Review:  Well it really has good graphics But has no storyline and it didnt have many guns really but it 
 did have okay gore but no reason to the collecting of the money and it had odd Simulations no greatness 
 odd mind you but it lack some thing like physics gameplay controlls that made sense it was actiony 
 a little but nothing like series sam one or series sam the second encounter no puzzles, nothing 
 interesting and oddly few gun there were only five now now there are cheats but out of I'd rate 
 it 5.2 especially sense there was mostly allways zombies. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: usy911
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 30, 2006 9:06 am PT
Review:  painkiller is one of the best fps shooting game i have ever played. it has mind blowing nonstop 
 action. its way better than doom 3 & farcry. according to me. bcoz,1st - it dosen't have objectives 
 to find like we have in doom3 & farcry. in this u have 1 objective & that is to kill , kill& kill 
 all monster.& level bosses & reach lucifer. game levels are design beautfully. game graphics. game 
 has monsters ,horror & non stop action. game background sounds are also horrifying. but is fun to 
 play. just kill man, just kill. painkiller weapns are stylish & deadly. my favourite weapon is stake 
 gun. so stylish & innovative weapon. with it u can pin your enemy in walls or into each other. but 
 my favourite part in the game comes when, i come face to face with level bosses. man killing them 
 is gr8 fun. they very powerful & needs power full weapons or tarrot cars to kill. tarrot cards are 
 very useful thing in game & needs to be used wisely, only when it required. black tarrot cards is 
 also a new innovative thing .we have seen this 1st time. now i just want to say one thing that 
 painkiller. is a worth buying & playing game. bring pain to your enemies & become a killer. bcoz 
 you are nagels only prayer & now heaven got a hitman 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nightharvest
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 20, 2006 2:30 pm PT
Review:  Painkiller came out of nowhere in early 2004 from Polish developers People Can Fly and received 
 some pretty good press for its excellent take on the traditional run and gun shooter. The game 
 ignored what was becoming an increasingly complex approach to FPS game-play and simply presented 
 the gamer with a wealth of levels containing thousands of enemies (who tumbled in a very cool way 
 thanks the physics system) and this combat took place with some breathtaking graphics and excellent 
 sound. While the game does wear its influences on its sleeve, it also forges its own identity as 
 well as providing one of the most enjoyable games I have played in recent times.
  
  You play Daniel Garner in Painkiller, who died along with his wife in a car accident, but he has 
 spent a considerable period of time suspended in purgatory. He is finally offered a chance to be 
 re-united with his wife, but to do so he must fight the armies of hell, who are amassing the mother 
 of all offensives on the good world. Cue plenty of intense and at times insane action with battles, 
 enemies, firefights and the odd cheesy cut-scene.
  
  Graphically, this game is stunning. While you are battling the demons of hell, you do take them 
 on in some glorious environments. There are about 25 levels and only towards the end is there a 
 hint of filler. These environments are beautifully crafted and detailed with some excellent lighting 
 and effects. The catacombs, the opera house, the dockyards, the sensational asylum level, the train 
 station  these are some of the best looking levels and the rest are not that bad either. There 
 is a similar amount of quality and variety to your enemies. They are beautifully detailed and move 
 very crisply and smoothly as the come after you. Even better, the havoc physics engines sends them 
 in all directions once you have dealt with them, which is a wonderful feature to this game. Im 
 not sure how many enemies there are, but the variety is significant  you are certainly not facing 
 the same enemy time and time again, and the bosses are HUGE! At times there are 30 to 40 enemies 
 on the screen creating all kinds of havoc, but the frame-rate rarely suffers. This is true eye 
 candy. It is violent, and there is some gore  so maybe its not for our younger generation.
  
  The sound is also quite superb. The battles sounds are excellent with the weapons and enemies 
 going off in all directions. The sound is very crisp indeed and is worth turning up or putting 
 the headphones on for. The large variety of atmospheric sounds range from soothing to downright 
 chilling as you move from battle to battle, whilst during the battle you are treated to some good 
 old heavy metal music. Im not a fan of that genre of music, but it works well here. It is almost 
 like you have a band behind you, watching the game with you and then jamming away every time you 
 enter another skirmish. The voice-acting also works well in the cut-scenes.
  
  While Painkiller talks the talk, it also walks the walk by providing a very satisfying game-play 
 experience. Ultimately, it doesnt offer too much different than Quake did in the mid 90s or Serious 
 Sam did only a couple of years earlier. However, the complete package gives it a unique feel. There 
 are about 25 levels of combat to complete, and each level consists plenty of opposition. It is 
 fairly linear  follow the arrow at the top of the screen, enter the checkpoint, trigger the spawning, 
 engage in intense fast paced battle with dozens of foes, pick up weapons and ammo and then proceed 
 to next checkpoint. However, Painkiller does this is a frenetic, intense and feel good way. It 
 is a real romp going from level to level and each new level provides a refreshing environment and 
 a new set of challenges. The bosses are tough to beat, but are beatable. It takes some time to 
 work out the trigger to their defeat, but it is satisfying to watch them fall when you do succeed.
 
  
  Whilst there are only five weapons, there is a secondary component to each and that is more than 
 enough for the combat that occurs. The old fashioned shotgun is a treat and is useful for close 
 quarters combat. The crossbow is a hoot as you leave your enemies pinned to the wall; however its 
 reload time means its not so good if you are pinned down unless you can use secondary fire! All 
 weapons have the strengths and weaknesses and you work these out as you engage the different enemies.
 
  
  A neat feature is the collection of souls, and once you have collected enough, you morph into a 
 super powered being and can destroy all in sight. This is helpful in the bigger battles (though 
 you have to plan your collection of souls) and is a very neat visual effect. There is also the 
 use of tarot cards, which can be secured by achieving feats at each level. These tarot cards 
 offer temporary or permanent bonuses and are worth pursuing. Mind you, I rarely used them  preferring 
 to slug it out with the enemies as I was.
  
  The story is a bit on the cheesy side and the cliffhanger ending sets the game up for the obligatory 
 add-on pack, but its a hell of a ride to get there. Simply, Painkiller takes its simple concept 
 and does everything right, bringing an excellent presentation of graphics and sound to some well 
 executed game-play that is such a joy to play from beginning to end.
  
  Painkiller took between nine to ten hours on the default difficulty level which includes and extra 
 hour or two to play the levels not available at this default difficulty. There is incentive to 
 replay the game if you want to collect all of the tarot cards, as well as an old-school multiplayer 
 format which is still well patronized. I purchased Painkiller for $7.50, on the new Replay label 
 in June 2006 and that is an absolute steal. Even though it the game was two years old, it still 
 looked very fresh to me. 
  
  I cannot recommend Painkiller highly enough. While it could be called Quake 2004, it really does 
 take the premise of that seminal title but delivers it with cutting edge technology, blistering 
 game-play and a unique identity. The well executed, fast paced, in-your-face gaming action will 
 bring a smile to your face and it is worthy of your attention. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: doom3kjc
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 7, 2006 6:13 pm PT
Review:  Painkiller is the story about Daniel Garner, who while driving with his wife, get into a fatal 
 car accident. His wife goes to Heaven, but Daniel goes to Purgatory, which is somewhere between 
 Heaven and Hell. An Arc Angel approaches him and tells him that Lucifer's preparing to start a 
 war against Heaven, and the only way Daniel can be reunited with his wife is if he can stop Lucifer's 
 forces... for some reason, it's just him.
  
  You play as Daniel in 24 levels of in-your-face action, though the gameplay in Painkiller is different 
 than most FPS games. The gameplay has you killing monsters that will try to take you down, and 
 you proceed through the level by killing anything that moves. Whenever you start to battle with 
 enemies, a heavy metal soundtrack kicks in, so you know youre ready to dispatch some enemies. 
 There are no friendly people in the game, and nothing to interact with. After you kill all the 
 enemies in the area, a door or set of doors open that let you proceed through the level, and you 
 must kill the enemies in the next area to proceed, and so on. It seems straightforward, but that 
 isn't bad at all. 
  
  As I have stated before, this game is simplistic; there is nothing to interact with (such as finding 
 a switch or button) , no doors to open, no key hunting, nothing like that... no nonsense. There are 
 also no cutscenes or voiceovers, or anything else to take you away from the action during gameplay.
 
  
  That doesn't mean this game is easy, however. The gameplay pits you against many monsters at a 
 time; so to combat them, Daniel is equipped with five weapons. This may not seem like a lot, but 
 each weapon has a secondary fire mode, which almost acts like an entirely new gun, effectively 
 doubling that number to ten. The most notable of these weapons is the Rocket Launcher / Chaingun, 
 which just might be the most versatile weapon in any shooter I've ever played. There is also a 
 Stakegun / Grenade Launcher. The Stakegun can pin enemies to walls, which is very satisfying.
 
  
  After killing your enemies you can collect their souls. After you get 66 of them, you turn into 
 a demon, and can basically rip apart your enemies just by looking at them and clicking. Souls also 
 increase your health by one point, and while that may not seem like much, the average level has 
 150+ enemies.
  
  The environments aren't what you'd expect. Sometimes you'll battle enemies in an opera house, or 
 maybe an industrial complex. The different environments have different enemies in them. In fact, 
 there are over 50 different types of enemies in the game, so repetitiveness isn't a problem. The 
 bosses in Painkiller are truly unique. They tower many stories above you, and you will be literally 
 looking up at a 45-degree angle to shoot at them. The bosses also give many memorable fights as 
 they try to crush you or attack you in other ways. 
  
  Another aspect to the game is the Black Tarot Cards. Each level has specific requirements to it, 
 such as collecting a certain number of souls, using only a specific weapon, etc. If you meet those 
 requirements, you get a Black Tarot Card, which gives you advantages like slowing down time, doubling 
 your firing rate, etc. You pick the cards you want to use before playing a level, but placing them 
 requires money, which you earn by playing the levels. You can replay a level anytime you want, 
 provided you have completed it. There is a lot of replay value to this game, thanks to the Black 
 Tarot Cards and money collecting. 
  
  The graphics in Painkiller look very good, and it uses People Can Fly's proprietary 3D engine. 
 This makes everything look extremely detailed, and it also has rag-doll physics, where enemies 
 kind of flop to the ground using the built-in physics engine.
  
  Painkiller's sound is also very good. Each monster has different growls and groans, so it adds 
 some realism to the game. The bosses are also worth mentioning, as they fall to the ground once 
 you've defeated them, and the sound almost shakes the ground. 
  
  Painkiller's Multiplayer is extremely fast-paced, and it comes with really cool play modes as well. 
 There are the usual deathmatch modes and whatnot. One neat mode is the "People can Fly" mode, where 
 the map is a cylinder and everyone is equipped with the Rocket Launcher / Chaingun weapon that 
 has unlimited ammo. To score, you must use the rocket launcher to blast your enemies in the air, 
 and then use the chaingun to kill them. The catch is that players only take damage if they're in 
 the air. Another cool mode is called "Voosh, where players are armed with the same weapon and 
 unlimited ammo, but every minute or two, the weapon changes to another one selected by the computer 
 for all players. The deathmatch in Painkiller is extremely fast paced, almost more than the original 
 Quake. Almost all the time you are taking damage from enemy fire, but when you die, you almost 
 instantly respawn, so the Multiplayer is definitely worth playing.
  
  Overall, if you're a fan of FPS and you are looking for some gory, in-your-face nonstop action, 
 you should look no farther than Painkiller for the PC.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: woef
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 27, 2006 6:42 am PT
Review:  Painkiller is a good game, but its almost the same as Doom 1/2.
  I loved D1/2 but painkiller is different.
  Its a very chaotic game where monsters come running 
 at you and try to kill you and that is all.
  
  Gameplay:
  +Gameplay is nice, primary/secondary weapon features, which is nice.
  +Good amount of levels.
 
  +Levels are big enough.
  +/-Nice boss fights, but very easy.
  -Frustrating and chaotic.
  -Overpowered weapons.
  
  Graphics:
  +The graphics look amazing and the engine runs very very 
 good.
  +Nice animations of enemies
  +Good cutscenes/movies.
  -Some minor problems when enemy is exploding near you.
  
  Sounds:
  +Good music relaxing/fights.
 
  +/-The rest is a bit mediocre
  -Weapons sound very stupid.
  
  Value:
  +Value is excellent, good amount of maps.
  +Online: Different modes of play.
  +Replay value.
 
  -Boss fights lack challenge.
  
  Online:
  +Lots of multiplayer modes, what else do you want
  -Lags alot when explosions nearby or fog.
 
  
  Painkiller looks very great, but plays very repetitive and chaotic.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeadParrot145
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 12, 2006 12:50 pm PT
Review:  Minimum System Requirements
  
  Processor: 1.5 ghz
  Memory: 384 mb of ram
  Video: 64 mb video card
  
  
  Current System Config: (the system i used, so if i was bias 
 in the review towards graphics or gameplay)
  intel pentium 4 2.2ghz
  640mb of ram
  Ati radeon 9250 PCI
  
  
  
  Remember the good o' days? Before people took online gaming 
 way to seriously, before games made you think, and most of all, before when games had more meaning 
 than the killing. Painkiller is a refreshing trip back into time, with a fresh, new engine that 
 looks and sounds amazing. It sports an amazing single player game, and a decent multiplayer deathmatch 
 experience. Most of all it distinguishes itself from todays modern fps, because it does somthing 
 different. It provides very straight foward gameplay in which you will never be lost, or far away 
 from the action. 
  Painkiller's single player game is a unique experience, yet its so simple, you would wonder why 
 its never been done before. You will run from checkpoint to checkpoint mowing down legions of baddies 
 with an assortment of 10 guns grouped in pairs. The painkiller weapons, like i said, are grouped, 
 so you will only pick up 5 different weapons, but each has a completely different secondary function. 
 For example, your shotgun will come equipt with a freezer, which proves to be exceptionally useful. 
 The single player game to run through (on the standard diffulculty) begginning to end will take 
 the average gamer between 10-20 hours to complete. However, each level has a challenge in which 
 completeling will unlock you a tarot card. These cards grant you abilities that you can use in 
 levels. 
  The Painkiler Multiplayer will take you back intime to the days of quake III area, you will start 
 with the weakest gun and your melee weapon. The object is to run around collecting powerups, armor, 
 and weapons while mowing down everything that moves, or doesnt. It seems simple enough but its 
 most definatly fun.
  Painkiller supports its own engine, which looks amazing, just on the reccommended system requirements. 
 The textures are exceptionally detailed, the archetecture looks very realistic, and the physics 
 are great. There isn't much else to say that the graphics engine from painkiller is one of its 
 time (early 2004) , and they still look great today. 
  Sound for Painkiller also is done exceeding well, the music suits the game, and the sounds for 
 the guns are believable. The several dozen mosters have different sound effects, so as i said, 
 sould is a great strong point for this game.
  What keeps painkiller back from being above the standard great game experience, is that it can 
 get repetitive and occasionally frusterating. And it never took off with the public too well, so 
 it can be diffulcut to find a deathmatch online to play. But there is a lot to this game, and its 
 definatly worth a solid 30 bucks. It's one of the most reccomendable games to date for the hardcore 
 fps fan. The bottom line: 8.7 its a great game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hiitzme
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 28, 2006 10:24 am PT
Review:  Painkiller is a heart-pounding action FPS where you have to blast through 24 levels destroying 
 Demons. Each level has it's own music, and unlockable card which is unlocked by doing things such 
 as beating the levels without armor, or collecting all the gold. There are 4 modes to play on: 
 Daydream (Easy) , Insomnia (Normal) , Nightmare (Hard) , Trauma (Extremely Hard, Have to beat the 
 game on Nightmare to unlock) . About 10-20 seconds after you kill a demon he will evaporate and 
 leave a colored soul depending on his strength. (ie: green = easy, red = Hard) , and the different 
 colors are worth different. Green is one and red is two. Once you get 50 souls you get painkiller 
 mode in which you have about 10-15 seconds to be invincible and have an attack that explodes enemies 
 into pieces on hit. Each area has a huge boss and a showdown at the end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oninboy
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 29, 2006 10:07 pm PT
Review:  2 years ago this game was marred by it's copy protection issues, me and a lot of PC-Gamers out 
 there did'nt have a chance to play this game smooth and well. As a result I returned this game 
 to the seller.
  
  NOW the the PainKiller Black Edtion DVD-Rom was released for quite a few months. It was well worth 
 the wait (and price) . :)
  
  The Graphics IS still the best in a FPS game, even a low-end graphics card like mine runs smoothly 
 on all High options! The giant bosses' graphics is a breath-taking piece of work. There's a lot 
 of ugly looking enemies! which is complimentary by the way, and they got great animation with them. 
 Great physics! after shooting your enemies, they bounce like you beat the hell out of them. THE 
 LEVEL DESIGN in Painkiller is one of the best, this is where the guys at Id Software failed to 
 do so in their Doom 3 series. There's numerous levels like the catacombs, cathedral, haunted asylum 
 and many more!!!!
  
  Gameplay , I agree with the gamespot reviewer, is a no-nonsense approach. Shoot them all and shoot 
 'em fast! There are 5 weapons originally but each has an alternate fire which makes them 10 weapons 
 all in all. It comes with the tarot cards to which is sort of like a static enhancement or power-up. 
 Get the haste and you'll get a gameplay and graphics exhibition at the same time.
  
  Oh yes, and there's a story line that adds up to all of this good-looking mess! To summarize it, 
 It's about the battle between heaven's one-man army and hell's minions! The story of Daniel Carver 
 wanting to get back with his wife. Play the game if you want to know the whole plot ;) . 
  
  Overall this game is a great piece of entertainment! PC-Gamers as well as the die-hard First Person 
 Shooter fans like me will enjoy this game for a long period. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deadwolf99
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 13, 2006 12:55 pm PT
Review:  Hellow, This game is very well put together, with exciting game-play both singleplayer and online 
 play!.
  
  Single-Player
  
  Most i like is the singleplayer play this is a total 100% recommanded singleplayer game if your 
 looking for a scary, good graphic, heart bounding, overall play.
  
  Ive never played the expantion on this game how ever ide sure love to. 
  The boss's are really 
 all around great to beat. 
  The weapons i really enjoyed most, My personal favorite is the bow, It has good distance, 1 hit 
 kill on almost everything, Great accuracy, And recoil.
  
  I play very very little games on single-playr because i am a 90% online player, Inless the game 
 is really, really great and im really into it like half-life2 i loved on single-player!
  
  The sound is overall Great on both sp and online play!
  The sound from the weapons, and the monsters 
 reactions after they die where really really great timed and really good!
  
  Difficulty ide say was just right. I havnt played pk in awhile and totaly forgot if you can pick 
 your own Difficulty but im pretty sure your able to.
  The learning curve was also pretty easy on single-player becasue if you've played other classic 
 monster games like doom, serious sam ect then you'd be great as this game!
  
  If you've played the serious sam serious and liked it then this will be an 8 are higher garenteed 
 for you!
  
  Online-Play
  
  I enjoyed this game online alot. It had good graphix, Great game-play with some really good mods 
 like people can fly, deathmatch and of course Team deathmatch.
  
  Sound was great just like on single-player.
  The difficulty is pretty hard and requires practice 
 and skill.
  
  There's not alot to say on the online-play exspect i really liked it and if your looking for both 
 single-player and online good play on a monster type game then this one is for you!
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raiser
Rating: 7.6
Date: May 4, 2006 4:45 am PT
Review:  Coming out of left field straight from Poland just eight months ago, Painkiller was an awesome 
 surprise in what's turned out to be a great year for high-quality shooters. With its wildly varied 
 environments, impressive physics, huge cast of creatures, creative weapon design, and a focus on 
 pure action over exposition, it was both a throwback and a hair-raising step forward in relentless 
 intensity. Battle out of Hell, the game's official expansion pack, doesn't mess around with the 
 winning formula. It features 10 new levels (each with an original set of enemies and an unlockable 
 tarot card) , two new weapons, and some new multiplayer modes and maps. While some of the new levels 
 match the quality of the original, roughly half of them feel like content that simply didn't pass 
 muster the first time around. And now that the game's novelty has worn off a little, some of its 
 design and technical flaws have become more glaring. It's still an impressive ride; it's just somewhat 
 more sporadic than the original.
  
  The game does get off to a terrific start. The first level is a variation on the original's creepy 
 asylum level. This new one, which takes place in an abandoned orphanage, is even better. The ambient 
 soundtrack of clanks, whooshes, and children's voices, combined with the army of little corpses 
 that dog your every step, give it a nearly perfect haunted house atmosphere. There's even a nice 
 homage to an eerie scene from The Changeling. The second level, set in a satanic theme park, continues 
 the expansion's winning streak. It's visually striking, frenetic, and it features an action sequence 
 that gives new meaning to the observation that heavily scripted shooters are turning into amusement 
 park rides.
  
  After these two levels, which are as good as anything in the original, things begin to slide gently 
 downhill. There are a couple of other decent levels, like the one that takes place in a zombie-infested 
 city. This level looks spectacular and makes good use of the physics engine with some car-tossing 
 mayhem. Another level, set in war-torn, and, yes, zombie-infested, Leningrad, is equally intense. 
 But for the most part, much of the rest of the game is kind of bland. Two levels take place in 
 virtually identical-looking caves. Since one of the pleasures of the original was how visually 
 different the levels were from one another, it's a disappointment that these two are not only virtually 
 indistinguishable, but also placed one right after the other. Another of the 10 levels is only 
 available on the Nightmare difficulty. Though, calling it a level may be giving it too much credit, 
 since it's really just a square room with a monster (recycled from the zombie city level) stomping 
 around in it.
  
  The final conflict is better than the original in some ways and worse in other ways. The environment 
 isn't nearly as remarkable as in the first game, though that's an admittedly tough act to follow. 
 On the bright side, however, the boss itself is a lot less frustrating to fight. There's still 
 a puzzle to killing him, but it's not as ridiculously counterintuitive. In fact, the developers 
 appear to have gotten better at designing boss battles. The few boss battles that are scattered 
 throughout the game's levels are still mostly puzzle-based, but the puzzles are a little more reasonable.
 
  
  Unfortunately, the designers decided to replace the aggravating bosses with some even more aggravating 
 jumping puzzles. One series of jumps over a deadly pool of lava is just an inexplicably bad design 
 choice. Even worse, the game's unreasonably long loading times make the necessity of retrying the 
 jump over and over again almost unbearable. Even though the game is being run on a machine that 
 exceeds the recommended specs, many of the levels still take upwards of two minutes for both the 
 initial and quick loads. The instant death followed by two minutes of waiting, which results from 
 missing these aforementioned jumps, is overly punitive and it brings the entire game to a screeching 
 halt.
  
  The two new weapons are iconic of the whole game; one of them is great, the other one's kind of 
 so-so. The great one combines a powerful rapid-fire machine gun with a really satisfying flamethrower. 
 The other weapon is a scoped sniper rifle that fires a tight bundle of five stakes. In its alternate 
 mode, it fires bursts of bouncing explosives. The sniper rifle occasionally comes in handy, but 
 the bouncing bombs are a little too unpredictable for anything but backup crowd control.
  
  Two new multiplayer modes have been added: capture the flag (no explanation required) and last 
 man standing (deathmatch with limited lives) . While the single-player game is a throwback enhanced 
 by both the physics engine and relentless pacing, the multiplayer is pretty much just a throwback. 
 It works, but it's hard to imagine anyone getting too worked up over it.
  
  You still get two great levels, a few good levels, and then some other stuff for the reasonable 
 price of $20. And if it seems like we're being overly harsh, it's only because we love Painkiller 
 so much and just want the best for the franchise. So enough with the puzzle bosses! And fix the 
 loading times! And get rid of the idiotic jumping puzzles! Make more levels like the orphanage! 
 Please
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Craig_J
Rating: 8.2
Date: Apr 28, 2006 6:40 am PT
Review:  I saw the black edition at GAME on offer and had to buy I had been looking for this game for ages, 
 I was not let down!!! this is an extremely fun game, the action is fast and bloody, just the way 
 I like it. And the boss fights, well what can I say, amazing they are freakin' huge. The graphics, 
 while not brilliant get the job done with a few cool effects. The weapons in this game are extremely 
 unusual and they all have plenty of firing modes, the stake gun is my personal favourite. The sound 
 is all decent and the heavy rock music complements the gameplay even if it isn't quite to my taste. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bulldawg8879
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 21, 2006 9:54 am PT
Review:  This game doesnt try to hard to do anything really new but it is a fun shooter. One thing I had 
 a problem with is how each chapter the levels do not seem to have any sort of theme to them they 
 are just a bunch of levels put together. Like going from a mausoleum to a ice covered bridge with 
 ninjas and samuri attacking you. The game plays really well and the graphics are done pretty well. 
 I liked the metal music that played when you got into fights with the enemies. The ending leads 
 straight to the expansion pack since you are surrounded by demons. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: icedteaser2004
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 20, 2006 5:03 am PT
Review:  This is indeed a hardcore First Person Shooter. Not your normal off the shelf first person shooter. 
 They had a good idea and made a good game from that idea. Sometimes dark, always unpredictable 
 none stop fun. The Bosses in this make other games bosses look easy but they do have weak spots 
 and believe me it takes a while to find the weak spot. There are times when there are up to 20 
 demons attacking you and your health is dropping quickly. The add-on expansion pack doubles the 
 playing time and gives new weapons. highly recommended. Fight your way through Hell and try and 
 get back alive and win the battle against evil.. Good luck. In Hell nobody cares how loud you scream. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rpg9000owner
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jun 13, 2007 8:44 am PT
Review:  Shooting games before 1998 were essentially Doom and Quake clones, with a shoot everything that 
 moves mentality. The revolutionary Half-Life changed and turned the industry upside down, now the 
 FPS genre is far more diverse. As a result of this, Doom and Quake clones are scarce and a dying 
 breed. But out comes Painkiller.. if you ever enjoyed old shooters, extremely fast gameplay, with 
 no objectives then Painkiller worth checking out. Painkiller has no crouch button or reloads, no 
 switches, no backtracking. It's pretty straight forward. Shoot, kill and move on. The games environments 
 are vast and varied, weather it be opera house, graveyards, snowy bridges. The game has it all. 
 Every level has a heavy metal soundtrack that sounds like something straight from an Iron Maiden 
 album. Which fits the theme well.
  
  The games weapons are generally fun to use, the steak gun being mine (and many others) favorite 
 gun in the games arsenal, all guns feel powerful and are a blast to use.
  
  The boss levels are amoungst the best parts of the game, their sheer prseence is a sight ot behold. 
 They are challenging, but not impossible.
  
  The foundations that the game was built on relies on dated mechanics, although they still hold 
 up fairly well. It starts to get tedious, people can fly tried to (and done a good job) in making 
 every level different to add some variety, however this means some levels are a lot better than 
 others, the game starts to get boring and they is hardly an online community worth speaking about, 
 literally you be very lucky to find a game online (which is a shame, as the games multiplayer mode 
 is probably the crown jewels of the package) latest patches have added new modes and maps to try 
 and help but it ultimately failed.
  
  Its a good solid game that achieves what it sets out to do, if you miss the Doom and Quake days 
 and want a nice throwback. Check out painkiller. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KCgirlgeek1963
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 1, 2006 3:58 am PT
Review:  Okay, I just feel tremendously guilty for enjoying bloodletting in a game as much as I did in THIS 
 one. I should probably seek therapy after playing this game and finding myself liking it so very 
 much.
  
  I've played a few of the more "mainstream" FPS games, like CS Source and Unreal Tournament 2004, 
 and you know.... I like those games. I like them a lot. I'm not really GOOD at them, but I enjoy 
 them in small doses.
  
  Painkiller, on the other hand, I just could not get enough of this sickness! Horrible, I know, 
 but it just really was FUN.... pure, guilty, nasty, horrid, FUN.
  
  The graphics on a high end machine are just gross... lol.... and I mean that in a good way. The weapons 
 look amazingly real. I just LOVE the Painkiller (there are times in the past with the ex and whatnot, 
 that it's good that wasn't a REAL weapon) . This game is just great for taking out your aggression 
 at the end of a long day.
  
  The ragdoll physics are nice too.... it's just... gross and wonderful all at the same time! You just 
 GOTTA love THAT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wizoforb
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 30, 2006 7:18 pm PT
Review:  This one i'm so glad I purchased. For the price I paid ($10) I can't believe what I got. I love 
 the bargain bin games that turn out to be wonderful. The graphics are clean, and shadows, and lighting 
 are superb. The sounds, and music are also great. Has a wicked feel to this game which I like. 
 Not to creepy, but like the way the game plays. This game won many awards I see. Tells you something 
 doesn't it. Why so cheap you think. The weapon that I think is the most unique is what I believe 
 they call the PainKiller. It's the rotating Hellraiser wannabe weapon. Something you SHOULD have 
 seen in hellraiser, but anyway. The guns of choice are good. The way you stake these guys, and 
 pin them to whatever is so funny. Not very hard actually. Easy to find ammo, and heals. Could have 
 been longer. Still a great game. A good stocking stuffer!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stabby
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 26, 2006 8:49 am PT
Review:  The FPS Painkiller is one fast paced game that never has a stand still or dull moment!
  
  Graphics
  Painkiller's graphics are 100% revolutionary for its time and even beats many by todays 
 standards still. If increased blood gush, raging explosions and raining limbs all over, this game 
 just never ends with the technical carnage you can see. The environments are both beautiful to 
 look at and both erie at the same time giving you a good sense of power and soul in line with the 
 game's story and action! Although linear layout you will match yourway through a range of different 
 hell version parts of history and monsterous, comical, sinister and heart stopping enemies all 
 with great look, movement and attack that will wither blow apart in a shower of blood and guts 
 or fly sky high with impresive rag doll bodies, every time you fire away with your unique and original 
 weapons that are never still and always moving inside (light, cogs and static fire) . Although at 
 one point in the game you can tell how the enemy will fall apart and when dead will dissapear after 
 abit makes you feel your dirty work is being cleaned up and graphics wise, is a SLIGHT let down.
 
  
  Sound
  The weapons are simple but effective sound wise, although in a loop theres never a dull moment 
 to notice. The landscape as it blows apart sounds hell blazing and the gusts of wind and thunder 
 in the sky is heavenly sound! Your are givin an option of what to hear when in battle with Satan's 
 minions, either slow artistic music in line with the world and story, or fast metal music in line 
 with the massacre ready to get going. Both are great choices and leaves something for both kinds 
 of players (emotional or hard fighting) but if you choose the metal... its in a very noticable 
 loop that can get repetative FAST and through some many more levels as you go, its also noticable 
 that some music sounds to simular if not the same.
  
  Gameplay
  Think Serious Sam... but more serious of course. The gameplay is simple and complex at the same 
 time... simple via all you do is just engage in Hollywood style bloodbath shhot outs with demons, 
 ghouls and zombies but complex via because of the difference in enemy attack, strength and numbers 
 and ammo amount you will have to pull off a view tricks to come out on top like bomb here or wait 
 for them here or careful of those etc unlike Serious Sam where its all the same each time... sigh... 
 There are many many levels split into 5 catagories that will last you along time, with each catagory 
 with its own theme from both history and religious soms making each level and enemy as different 
 as the last etc. Although at times some levels are a little repetative, theres never a pause in 
 the guns battles thus leaving you open to contant action play, just amazing. An extra bonus which 
 makes Painkiller a treat are the Boss Fights. Even though theres only 5 (7 if you can the add on) 
 each one is a artistic masterpiece but intense fighting in the same package. The Bosses are of 
 Shadow of the Colossus proportion and god like with plenty of action mixed in! Boss Fights that 
 are great to play over and over again! The gameplay is basically those of the retro Doom, Duke 
 Nukem, Wolfenstein era but graphically and artistically enhanced to wonderful perfection!
  
  You'll get your moneys worth with Painkiller, and even more play if you buy the Battle out 
 of Hell expansion pack for it to. Painkiller is an easy game to reconmend to any FPS players, with 
 its master graphics for new age players and bloody fire Vs demons for retro players to. Its a game 
 for the who want an emotional experience and for those who just want to blow s*** up! Enjoy of 
 "go to hell"! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Quadster
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 25, 2006 6:32 am PT
Review:  when i 1st heard of painkiller i wasn't convinced this was gonna be an awesome game... (hmmm, company 
 i've never heard of.... prolly another generic shooter) .... so i gave it a miss... it wasn't until 
 months later i saw this game reviewed on a gaming show, that i was like.... G'uh!!!..... really fast 
 paced game.... tight arcade like controls.... millions of minions just wanting to eat your flesh..... NIIICE!!... even 
 cooler was painkiller's  bleak looking visuals reminded me 
 of one game from 96..... QUAKE!!.... the visuals remind me of quake..... but almost like it was on 
 steroids and had heavily mutated...... Sweeeeeeet!... but without the whole slipgate scenario
  and i've gotta say.... THIS GAME DELIVERS.
  
  this game might not have many weapons...... but 
 the rate of which the weapons fire and the alternate fire modes, nicely even weapons out.... this 
 game is quite linear but if you're a fan of doom for example looking for a fragging fix.... do not 
 overlook this game... only other thing i might suggest to any one thinking of getting this game 
 is upgrade your cpu to very least a 2800+ amd athlon 64, with a geforce 6 6600gt with very least 
 256mb ram and i'd say 2gb ram of the fastest ram your computer can take.... this game's requirements 
 get heavier when you add the pixelshader 3.0 patches and more recent patches into the game...... it 
 really slowed my athlon 64 754 2800+ cpu with a GeforceFX 5900xt 128mb agp video card..... so i 
 had to kill some of the high end effects to play the game with a decent frame rate
  but all in all... one thrill ride which took me to hell and back.... literally!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yakkabe
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 14, 2006 5:23 pm PT
Review:  You will never see a first person shooter quite like Painkiller. It has a shaky storyline, but 
 if youre ever in the mood to bring down dozens of sword-wielding demons with a weapon set rivaling 
 Quake, you may find what youre looking for in this game.
  
  If you're looking for a good storlyine, though... well, the very concept of the game, Heavens 
 got a hitman, is pretty cool, but the actual meat of the story could have been written by a ten 
 year old who read too many The Punisher comic books.
  
  You play as a dead guy named Daniel, whos apparently been fending off demons in some hellish purgatory 
 for about 30 years. After a nice little cinematic featuring Daniel and his wife Katherine dying 
 in a car crash, it cuts to a guy with too much makeup on telling you that you need to eliminate 
 Lucifers four generals if you ever want to see your wife again. Daniel is understandably hesitant, 
 as he seems to be no less in the dark as you are, but, not one to abandon his beloved wife (or 
 the alluring concept of escaping this nightmare) , he agrees.
  
  Throughout the game, youre essentially required to get from one end of each level to the other 
 by killing anything in your way. Sound simple? Well, actually it is, but that doesnt make it easy. 
 Enemies are armed with everything from a morning star to a grenade launcher (but not both on the 
 same level) , and their intelligence can occasionally make you forget that a lot of them are just 
 zombies. I was quite surprised (to say the least) when half of them charged with bayonets while 
 the other half spread out and barraged me with rifle fire.
  
  Whenever you kill a foe, their body will soon burn and their soul will appear wherever the largest 
 remaining chunk of their body was at the time. Collect enough and you will temporarily morph into 
 a terrifying demon complete with explode-o-vision (note: souls not available during boss fights, 
 as explode-o-vision is comically overpowered) . The only real problem I had with the gameplay was 
 the overabundance of ammo. Some levels could probably be completed using nothing other than grenades.
 
  
  As for the music, Painkiller is appropriately spooky right up until the monsters appear, which 
 is when some heart-pumping metal starts up. There isnt much to say about the sound; its really 
 nice. Weapons, zombies, breaking objects, and footsteps all sound real.
  
  The graphics are fabulous.; Painkiller uses Havoc 2.0, the most advanced physics engine available 
 at the time. You can pin a demon to the wall with an 18 inch stake, shoot a gas tank and watch 
 it spin and slide about madly, or send four zombies sailing into the air with a well placed grenade, 
 and you will be convinced its the real thing.
  
  This is probably the only shooter where I can look forward to replaying on a harder difficulty. 
 Every completed level is available for replay at any time, and records are kept of how many monsters 
 you killed, how much gold you collected, how many secrets you found, and other such trivalities, 
 encouraging you to try to find it all, or at least as much as you can. Every level also has a challenge 
 for you to try to beat, such as Complete this level using only stakes or Beat the Necrogiant 
 in under 2 minutes. Completing a challenge will unlock a card that you can play when you start 
 a level, sort of like a cheat code (there are cheats, but I hate them) ; they each have different 
 abilities, such as causing souls to wait longer before disappearing, slowing the entire world down, 
 or doubling the damage on your weapons.
  And the boss fights... oh, the boss fights. You have to see them to believe them.
  
  Bottom 
 Line: The story is almost a gimmick and the cinematics are boring, but Painkiller is a winner. 
 I imagine its pretty cheap by now, too... (wink wink) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ketsapoulse
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 6, 2006 7:02 am PT
Review:  You must kill them destroy them cutting them into pieces do what ever to get the hell out of here 
 .
  Painkiller is great FPS game with a lot of goods .
  Graphic : great characters , weapons and world details .
  Sounds : its the most interesting 
 thing in the game its superb sounds with heavy metal music.
  Physic : great with a lot of things that can be damaged .
  Game play : amazing play with a storyline 
 .
  The bad things : no hard puzzles .
  My Last Word Is : superb game with great graphic and sounds its deserve to be played . 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: vasquezinus
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 21, 2006 4:39 pm PT
Review:  If you want a game that screams kicka$$, a game that looks great, sounds great, and plays great... 
 a game that totally butchers the "army, sci-fi" steriotype of first person shooters, get painkiller, 
 don't just get it... completely costomise your rig to play it perfect! This game consists of this 
 - great audio, visual, gameplay and technical quality, to say the least... Insane, well balenced 
 guns... Insane, well balenced enemies and loads of them, and NO TEXTURE reuse in a SINGLE level 
 (you just gotta jump up and down for that 1 :D) ... to say the least... and did i mention the smallest 
 boss in the game is half the size of the world trade center??! (like... before 9-11) I cant get 
 enough of this game, replay value is amasing, because each level has a goal to acheive that isn't 
 a requirement, but unlocks a powerup which is active temporarily or always as long as it's equipped. 
 There is no texture re-use whatsoever between levels, which means every level you're looking at 
 a completely differnt setting, color, etc. i mean, just imagine how badly Halo would own if it 
 didn; t re-use textures??! The guns are suprisingly balanced, the first weapon, the painkiller, 
 never stops being usefull, and makes for the most unique weapon i've ever seen, and an amasingly 
 good melee weapon (AKA... it OWNS) the shotgun is well... a shotgun, but it sounds awesome over 
 every other game i've played, despite the fact that it's primary fire isn't very unique, and the 
 secondary fire temporarily freezes enemies, and since this game is extremely gory, you can only 
 imagine what it does to mobs :D :D the steakgun..... wow.... is there any way to lightly put how 
 much i love this weapon? high-powered self reloading steakgun with attatched gernade launcher and 
 the ability to pin enemies to walls with it's massive wood steaks..... can it get any better??! 
 and it makes for a good marksman; s challenge, because you have to aim above far enemies to compensate 
 for it's arch-velocity. the mini-gun is ironically the secondary fire on a rocket launcher, but 
 the two on 1 gun is a deadly and fun combonation. The enemies vary greatly, from undead veitnam 
 veterans to you're everyday skeleton warrior to gigantic gimps with uzis and extremely creepy voodoo-type 
 stuffed enemies that never fail to freak me out. The boss battles are simply astonishing. The bosses 
 are probably 50 stories taller than you, and in one instance can spawn enemies to keep you even 
 more occupied. It's always fun to see the first boss, the necrogiant, come out of the distant mist 
 as massive and angry as ever, or the fourth boss come crashing down into the floor right below 
 you're feet, sending you tumbling down struggling to get out of debree as it torches you and claws 
 you. This game is a run-and gun shooter, and while certantly not for anyone, it's truely kickass 
 :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sam_2006
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 15, 2006 12:08 pm PT
Review:  painkiller is just my kind of game and it's without doubt one of the greatest games Ihave ever 
 played ! graphically, painkiller left me nothing to hope for it's extra-amazing with superb graphics 
 and great environments to explore! playing with my modest 128 mb graphic card made me feel having 
 a 256 mb in my graphic card !!!! I swear that is the top of graphics!!! moreover, the gameplay 
 is a big load of fun and on-going action, it's simply amazing. the sounds are freaking sometimes 
 but extremely nice. the only thing that i did not appreciate in the game is the small number of 
 levels that did not seem enough for me because i felt i needed more levels and more action since 
 the game is worth playing indeed !!! anyway... better 1 hour fun than 3 hours of bore !!! I strongly 
 recommend this game for FPS gamers who love to shoot and get shot hhhhhhhhh loved it ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dope999
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 11, 2006 5:11 am PT
Review:  Do you miss the brutality in a game? Do you miss a game where you are almost free to do anything, 
 to your opponents or enemies, and do you miss a heavy metal soundtrack? Well, I did! Then I heard 
 about Painkiller, bought it and it really satisfied me.
  You play as Daniel Garner who just got killed in a tragic car accident, and then he wakes up in 
 a mystical place. Somewhere between Heaven and Hell. You're given a mission. Now you're Heavens 
 hitman.
  
  The Good: 
  
  - Awesome soundtrack. Creates a great shooting mood.
  - The graphics make the blood and gore look absolutely great!
  - Probably the best realistic/rag-doll 
 physics ever seen.
  - Very detailed and smart thinking monsters.
  - The beatiful and detailed scenarios, makes no levels look the same.
  - Very, very fun multiplayer.
 
  
  The Bad:
  
  - Some loose ends in some levels. You can spent a long time finding the way out of a level.
  
 - There could have been more weapons.
  - Not all multiplayer levels are that fun.
  
  Painkiller... probably one of the best First-Person Shooters out there on the store shelves. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 00chaos8
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 6, 2006 3:30 pm PT
Review:  This is a simple great shooter. This game totally reminds me of another shooter called serious 
 sam. Except in Painkiller, the weapons are very original and cool and you fight demons and skeleton 
 warriors. Although 
  Painkiller's story is a little dry..... meaning it's not so interesting but hey you gotta love the 
 hordes of monsters, levels and weapons. 
  
  The levels are extreme. The levels have dark environments like castles, haunted houses, graveyards, 
 dark villages, caves, etc. Which the levels really fit to the game. Although some of the levels 
 are very eerie like the haunted house levels. One haunted house level was filled with zombie children 
 that run at you and explode and you would be like HOLY CRAP!!
  
  The weapons are the greatest thing in the game. Even if there are only 7 weapons in the game they 
 are awesome. Eace weapon is combine with first fire and alternate fire. My favourite weapons is 
 pretty much the first weapon you get in the game, the painkiller weapon which is a melee weapon. 
 It's like a fan.... only the edges are reallly sharp and rips bad guys into pieces and is equip 
 with a grapple that kills a guy in 1 or 2 shots.
  
  In this game, there won't be like 10 or 12 guys to kill in one level.... more like hundreds. The 
 thing that's nuts about this game is that all the monsters coming at you and surrounded you and 
 you blowing them one by one and man it's so much fun!!! Once you kill a monster in a game they 
 will come with a green soul and if you grab like 50 of them. You will demon morph and that's when 
 you can go nuts!!!
  
  The value in this game is ok, it will last you about maybe 10-20 hours but if you love crazy killing 
 monster shooter games like painkiller. Painkiller will last you longer and that you must buy the 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kreig_jones
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 28, 2006 12:59 am PT
Review:  Very good graphics but use of high quality textures and special effects clutters the screen and 
 makes it look dirty sometimes. However the constant collection of coins is a real pain and you 
 have to keep looking for secrets to unlock the cards at the end of each level. This is real waste 
 of time as most secrets are hidden in uncanny places. Not only this wastes time while you roam 
 about (after killing all bad guys ) looking for coins in the drums and sniffing for the secrets 
 it takes a toll on the patience. The added frustration of prolonged play fades the awesome gameplay. 
 Most of the time there seem to be no action and then there you are fending off hordes of all kinds 
 of **** coming after you. It feels good though, the adrenaline rushing to the head, but becomes 
 real boring as the game progresses. 
  
  Beautifully laid out maps, nice AI but why the storyline is so weak. prime stress is given on unlocking 
 the cards. And dont think that cards are real handy (QUAD DAMAGE type) either, they stink 
 real hard.
  How to enjoy this game-
  1) Forget about the secrets and card unlocking stuff they are just distractions
  2) Keep the 
 cheat codes handy if ya dont want to waste ur time in the boss levels. They are real tuff.
 
  
  2 more things before I close this -
  1  Be prepared to have a hell of a time finding the recent savegames. Dont know why they add such 
 weird dates instead of my system dates 
  VERY DIFFICULT TO FIND THE LAST SAVES
  2  the easy level LEAVES OUT THE INITIAL BOSS LEVELS they cut 30% out (they give a warning though)
 
  3  i cannot understand why such detailed characters when the levels themselves havent much 
 of detail to show that would make jaws drop. Yes the bots are heavily textured to drop jaws. But 
 whoever notices them in motion its the corridors that are static and catch our eye. They are drab 
 at times using single repetitive textures.
  Thats all for now 
  
  CIAO
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mike-y
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 17, 2006 12:54 pm PT
Review:  If your a fan of Doom, or Return to castle Wolfenstein, youll love this game. Its got zombies, witches, demons, 
 and all things that go bump in the night. The gothic like story line is great. Heck, the whole 
 game is great! The sound feauture's a wide variety of ambient, gothic, rock and heavy metal music 
 to set the mood to this dark thriller. The levels in the game are highly detailed and the graphics 
 are great. The particle and ragdoll effects are awseome too. The charachters are also extremley 
 detailed and dark and creepy. The cool thing about the enemies, is they seem to respawn and come 
 out of nowhere and start shooting the crap out of you. Another great thing about the game are the 
 weopons. Each weopon has a primary fire and a secondary fire and the weopons have different effects 
 on the enemy. For example you can nail enemies to a wall with the steak gun or can be drawn twords 
 you with some sort of laser. But the coolest thing about this game is the demon mode. It lets you 
 kill enemies and be invinceble for a short amount of time and can really come in handy for tough 
 fights. Overall Painkiller has been my favorite game ever since I played it for the first time. 
 This game grows on you too. Its a gory old sk00l game for everyone to love! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nurbachsch
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 17, 2006 9:34 am PT
Review:  I remember wasting hours and hours with Quake and never even doubt that a game as simplistic as 
 that - although technically quite impressive by the standards of its time - could fascinate as 
 much. Truth be told, Quake is the reason i took notice of the FPS genre in the first place. It 
 might have been another game, but i never owned an apple (some of you might get what i'm referring 
 to) . There were many FPS after Quake, some good, some not so good, but none of them was quite like 
 Quake, not even Quake 2 or 3.
  
  Painkiller relieves me of all the anxiety of hoping for a game good enough to follow in the footsteps 
 of Quake, because Painkiller is just that game. The premise of the game itself could be a hybrid 
 between Doom and a lost chapter of Quake.
  You've had a car crash. You died. Your wife was sent to heaven. You weren't. You are in purgatory 
 and want to get to your wife. Not so easy. You are being offered a deal: find Lucifer and stop 
 him and his advancing armies from attacking heaven, kill his generals along the way. If you succeed 
 you'll see your wife in heave. If not... well it wouldn't matter much anyway, now would it? Since 
 there is no easy way into hell, where you assume Lucifer must be holed up, you have to fight your 
 game through purgatory and its lost souls and hellish demons towards your ultimate goal. But never 
 mind the story, because its not only a little on the cheap and bland side, but also rather amateurish 
 presented. Since all of the actual game takes place in fast paced fps shoot-outs without any plot 
 elements, the story is being told in between chapters with CG movies. Those movies do not only 
 look a bit strange and badly made, but also lack any real storytelling quality whatsoever. You'll 
 have way more fun reading the bits that the Penny Arcade guys did for Painkiller.
  
  "Fun" is the cue that brings us to the game itself. What you do is simple: shoot and kill anything 
 that moves. Period. Fail to do so and you will be massacred within fractions of a second. Painkiller 
 is an extremely fast-paced game. Not only can you move rapidly but there usually is also an sheer 
 never ending assault of enemies keeping you on your toes. Add to that the dumbed down bunny-hop 
 that allows you even faster movement and Painkiller can appear like a roller coaster ride at times.
 
  
  Each level chapter sports a varied assortment of enemies that do all that is in their power to 
 end your life. To avoid that you can apply the deadly end (s) of a handful of weapons. But since 
 each weapon has two very different firing modes and you can use these firing modes for either tactical 
 or actual combos, the action never gets dull. Different enemies will also require you to change 
 weapons and tactics on the fly. Good that there are no weapon changing animations. Your basic weapon 
 is the namesake of the game, Painkiller. The primary mode opens a whirling mess of blades in your 
 hand with which you can mangle all that is in your way into bloody oblivion. Secondary shoots the 
 weapon off like a rocket, shooting in a straight line until it connects with an enemy or after 
 a certain amount of time. You can create deadly traps for weaker enemies in some environments by 
 shooting the weapon into the ground and then aiming at it with the targeting cross, creating a 
 hazardous laser beam between the two parts of the weapon. There's the Shotgun that can freeze enemies 
 with its secondary fire mode. Ideal for stopping large enemies and shattering them with a well-placed 
 shotgun blast. The Stake Gun is powerful, impaling enemies. It gets even more dangerous fired over 
 longer distances, since the stakes begin to burn mid-air and do more damage on their targets. Of 
 course, its harder to master, since the stakes don't fly straight but in an arc. The secondary 
 fire mode is a grenade launcher. Dispel close and tight packs of enemies with grenades and pick 
 single ones out with stakes. Then there's the wonderful Rocket Launcher plus Chaingun. Perfect 
 for stunning large but fast enemies with a short burst from the Chaingun and then sending them 
 up, up and away with a rocket. And finally there's the Electrodriver. In Driver mode it sends dozens 
 of throwing stars hurtling towards whatever you're aiming at. The Electro-mode is cute - it electrocutes 
 with a shaft of lightning. The combos is deadly: charge up an enemy with lightning and fire your 
 throwing stars into it and watch everything getting a deadly shock that comes close to the thusly 
 prepared demon. Each and every weapon feels just right and will get used. Not every weapon (however 
 powerful it might be) is right for every enemy. You will find that out soon enough.
  
  You might at first think that your enemies are not the brightest, but when faced with an onslaught 
 of dozens of creatures that want to use your melee weapons on you, others that shoot like hell 
 from a distance, fast ones, strong ones, you will be challenged enough not to fall into boredom. 
 More experienced FPS players are nevertheless advised to skip the easier modes and start off with 
 one of the harder ones.
  
  For even more challenging games, why not use the included multi-player modes? Besides the standard 
 variety of modes (deathmatch, etc.) Painkiller offers a couple of original and morbidly humorous 
 multiplayer game modes. Among them are modes that automatically switch the only weapon you have, 
 making your dizzying gaming, and the brilliant "People Can Fly" mode that has you hurtling your 
 opponents into the air with a well aimed rocket blast and then trying to pick them out of the air, 
 as that's the only way to score a kill, and being thrown around like a rag doll yourself.
  
  Graphics are superb, offering a wide and varied landscape. Also, each level of Painkiller is 
 unique. You will fight in exotic temples, in a victorian trainstation, in a derelict loony ward 
 and so on and so forth. What appears at first like a haphazard collection of seemingly unrelated 
 scenery, over time becomes the ripped and torn landscape of purgatory, each with fine details and 
 fantastic atmosphere.
  
  Demons, the Undead, Monsters - they all have been made with great love and an eye for the fine 
 touches that really make a 3D model stand out. Whether ghoulish axe-wielding Monks, demonic Samurai 
 in full armor, Zombie-Soldiers with their sadistic Officers, you will not instantly want to kill 
 them and turn them into a spray of blood and guts, but rather watch all the glorious detail they 
 offer.
  
  And they don't only look nice, they can also smooth-talk you like no one else. The sound bites 
 of your enemies, however unintelligible they might be, make the whole experience of playing Painkiller 
 that much richer. Ambient sounds and eerie background music can really send shivers up and down 
 your spine. The only thing that might have done with a little more polish is the heavy metal soundtrack 
 that erupts, when enemies are near. Although it is quite good, it gets tedious after a while.
 
  
  You might be able to play through Painkiller within a couple of hours and it might not be as sophisticated 
 as other games of the same ilk, but if you go for real atmosphere and just fun gameplay, there's 
 nothing out there that can compete with Painkiller. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maui00
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 9, 2006 4:13 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game when DreamCather release it but recenty i bought again i wanted to write a review.
 
  
  GAMEPLAY- really fun game. This game is an example of old-school games were FPS shooters are all 
 about action and no story. And the game comes with 32 levels. Which means it not short. 8/10
  
  SOUND- really well done. not much to say here. 8/10
  
  GRAPHICS- incredible, expecially 
 the physics which the game uses Havok 2.0 and its phenomenal. 9/10
  
  SINGLE PLAYER- cool storyline. You play Danuel Garner, who dies in a car accidnet with his wife. 
 Tehns he wakes up in the purgatory with a mission: kill 4 generals who control Lucifers army. 8.5/10
 
  
  MULTIPLAYER- fast-paced games and fun. 8/10
  
  OVERALL- fun FPS, nice graphics, and good gameplay: everything a good game needs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Assault999
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 9, 2006 10:41 am PT
Review:  The game is amazing and you well forget your self when you play the game 
  it is full of great soprises and the ai is wonderfull when the monster is comeing to you you well 
 have to screem (if you are agirl) this thing or shell i say manster is af@#$ing!! b@#$!! okay iam 
 sorry for that language any way the game is wanderfull and you going to enjoying when you play 
 the game 
  first it is like half-life2 a bit of it if you like the half-life2 then you well love this game 
 okay see you next time see ya
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: milkduds_1167
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 7, 2006 9:45 am PT
Review:  When I bought painkiller I didn't expect much of it. I thought it would be your regular shoot em 
 up type game but I was wrong, way wrong man. You are playing as a man who is sent to hell to kill 
 the demons that live there. I thought the weapons in this games were really cool, you not only 
 use guns but there is a really really cool weapon called the painkiller it's three weapons in one, 
 It's a stick with a fan blade at the end. You use it to run into enemies with while the blade is 
 spinning ( I call it the blender) , you can also launch the blade for long range attacks, and it 
 has a laser on the end.
  The graphics and sound quality of this game are pretty amazing. I especially like it when the hardcore 
 music comes on right before you get ambushed by hundreds of bad guys. You fight against tons of 
 enemies from undead warriors to bikers with machine guns in their chests. I also liked the hundred 
 foot bosses you have to fight at the end of almost every level. I would recommend this game to 
 anyone who likes this kind of stuff except people who don't like blood because this game has a 
 lot of blood. It's like new years eve but instead of fireworks there's blood!
  Hers's a few tips if you are buying or already have this game. When you use the laser on the painkiller 
 on an enemy he will fly towards you, before he touches the ground zap him with the laser again 
 and he will fly up again. Keep on doing this and you will get a special coin that is worth ten 
 coins, you can use these coins to buy cards that can give you new abilities. You should look up 
 a cheat that unlocks a secret forest level.
  Now that your finished reading my review go and buy the game NOW because you don't know what your 
 missing.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: postaldude23
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 1, 2006 10:57 pm PT
Review:  First of all this is a simple shooter! But if you can forget that then you will love painkiller, the 
 game is a very tense and fun shooter. The game takes about 6 hours to beat of the hardest difficulty. 
 The reason is its just the same as serious sam and quake, if you liked those to you will LOVE painkiller. If 
 you did not spend your money on other shooters. the game has amazing graphics. you will need a 
 good machine to be amazed at the detail. the game starts of with 2 weapons a shotgun with a (liquid 
 nitrogen?) capsuls. and a painkiller. the painkiller is a wierd weapon that is like a shredder. the 
 sound is good but some of the weapons like the chaingun and shotgun sound very underwhelming. and 
 some of the voice acting mood does not fit well. but other than that it is very solid. im surprised 
 not many people bought it. if your going to buy a version of this i sugest the painkiller balck 
 or gold, black is a special edition of painkiller. and gold is both painkiller and painkiller battle 
 out of hell. I recomend to all fans of mindless shooters but this!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SinfulSpikey
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 29, 2005 12:12 am PT
Review:  It's dark, it's bloody and it's sexy. I firmly believe that if Doom I was made today, it'd be just 
 like this game, but in a different setting.
  
  The story isn't very memorable, but who plays an FPS for the story? From what I can tell, it has 
 something to do with becoming heaven's hitman and trying to come back to life. Interesting idea, 
 but I'm not playing this game to see my character come back to life to be with his girlfriend, 
 I'm playing it to stake demonic samurais in the wall.
  
  The graphics are surprisingly well done. Better than some games being released today, at least. 
 The scenery is pleasant to look at, and the enemies are beautifully grotesque.
  
  The gameplay is superb. It captures the same magic that the original Doom did back in the day, 
 and ragdoll physics just makes it all the better. There is nothing more satisfying than firing 
 a stake at your enemy, only to see him stuck to the wall, three feet in the air. Sometimes half 
 alive, still.
  
  The sound.. oh, the sound! The music, the sound effects, the creatures! It's rare to see a game 
 that did well in all these areas. Of course, there's room to improve, but there's not much need. 
 It's all good, already.
  
  All in all, this game is a masterpiece. One of the best FPSs I've ever played and the FPS I recommend 
 to everyone who asks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pavel_btn
Rating: 8.1
Date: Dec 25, 2005 4:57 pm PT
Review:  They say its the FPS of the year (2004) , I wouldn't disagree. It is great fun and a must-play for 
 all FPS fans. It is a straight forward shooter with crazy enemies and killer weapons.
  The game has fantastic physics and awesome effects. With a powerful machine and all the settings 
 turned right up it looks spectacular. I adored what happenes to the dead bodies when you send them 
 flying through the air or nail them to the walls. 
  The story is really disappointing, but don't let that get in the way of all the fun. After all 
 any FPS is all about the action and not story.
  The game sound great too. It really spurs you to fight hard when you hear the awesome rocking metal 
 soundtrack during battles! The music is, honestly, very well designed and quite inspired.
  After finishing the main campaign, multiplayer Painkiller awaits you. Somehow, it didn't enjoy 
 the multiplayer as much as, lets say, Quake 3. It is very fast, I mean it. I found it kinda hard 
 and sporadic, but not too bad overall.
  There are some flaws and some glitches in the game, but overall it is a ride you don't wanna miss, 
 especially if you like shooting anything that moves! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zwulith
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 23, 2005 9:04 pm PT
Review:  Painkiller is a first person shooter 150% of the way. It is nothing but shooting lots and lots 
 of demons in about every type of environment you can think of. From gothic churches to industrial 
 facilities, all of the places you fight in look great, but they look even better with the jaw dropping 
 physics in full blast that makes every shot you take from that shotgun or chaingun about as satisfying 
 as shooting gets. 
  
  Painkiller doesn't stray to far from the roots when all you needed to do was shoot stuff and move 
 on, as a matter of fact that's pretty much all you do. There isn't to much that really breaks up 
 the action except for maybe some walking/running from place to place, but even this is somewhat 
 action packed because you have to jump over stuff and even shoot the occasional demon that gets 
 in your way while your going to your next arena to fight. Once you get there, walls surround you, 
 even behind you and the action starts. This is pretty much the name of the game and Painkiller 
 does a fine thanks to the totally ridiculous psychics system that makes every other shooter obsolete 
 when it comes to shotgun effects. When you shoot a blast from your shotgun, your enemies get blown 
 back to the wall, I mean literally, blown back about a couple dozen feet minimum. Everything can 
 be destroyed if it isn't your enemy and blood just oozes everywhere when you split your foes apart, 
 no matter what weapon your using. Even if your using the chaingun, they still get knocked back 
 a bit and blood flies everywhere. It's moments like these when Painkiller is at it's best. Simply 
 put, the physics system is the core reason to play this game.
  
  That's not to say that Painkiller doesn't have other neat things too. Actually, the graphics is 
 one of the highest points, with beautiful and lush surroundings with textures that will wow you 
 from start to finish. The graphics do take a toll at times with quite a bit of slowdown when lots 
 of enemies are around you. Since this game takes a lot of hardware and lots of enemies are always 
 surrounding you, be ready for the framerate to drop. Still though, the graphics are a killer and 
 since everything explodes and breaks apart to an incredible degree, you can't help but appreciate 
 and accept when the framerate drops from time to time. 
  
  Painkiller does have a story actually. This isn't just sensless action. The story to Painkiller 
 is rather unique, especially since it stars a dead man. That's right, you play as Daniel Garner 
 who dies in a car crash at the start of the game and then is forced to fight through wave upon 
 wave of demons in order to be with his loving wife again, who also died in the car crash with him 
 while they were going to dinner since it was her birthday. Painkiller's story is actually pretty 
 well done, with quite a bit of surprises and this is odd since this is one of the last games I 
 would have thought to have a good story. Painkiller has no cutscenes except at the beginning of 
 each chapter you have a cutscene that fills you more in on the story. A big turning point happens 
 towards the end of the game that you probably wouldn't have expected, so by all means the story 
 is well done, it just isn't the reason your going to play this game.
  
  The big problem with Painkiller is that it can get a bit repetitive after a while. Since all you 
 do for about 10 or more hours is shoot stuff, it really gets repetitive and can make your body 
 go numb after a while since all your doing is just shooting stuff. It is oddly satisfying though 
 and believe me, it never gets old, but still all you do is shoot hundreds of foes each chapter.
 
  
  The weapons in Painkiller is actually one of it's weakest points. Although they are all very impressive 
 looking in design and are satisfying to shoot, you only have 5 of them. Actually 10 when you think 
 about it, since each weapon has 2 different effects. Your weapon arsenal consists of these 5 weapons: 
 shotgun, spear gun, chaingun, ninja star gun, and your painkiller. The shotguns second effect is 
 the ice gun which freezes everything so that the shotgun can kill your foe in one shot. The spear 
 gun throws grenades, the chaingun has a rocket launcher on it, which is probably the best gun ever 
 made in a shooter. A chaingun/rocket launcher weapon is ingenious and is one of my favorite guns 
 in any shooter. Lastly, your ninja star gun can also electrify your enemies. So each of these 2 
 effects on every one of your weapons works great, but it would have been nice to have had a wider 
 weapon arsenal. 
  
  The enemies you face are downright impressive. No matter where your at, whether it's an icy bridge 
 you have to cross or an old asylum, all of the enemies look spectacular. Take the machine gun bikeman 
 in the docks level, they look so detailed and are so tough looking that you can easily get intimidated 
 by these guys. All of your foes look great and pretty much every stage has a different type of 
 enemies so your never facing the same type of foe.
  
  The boss fights are some of the biggest, baddest looking guys to ever come along to a shooter or 
 otherwise. Seriously, these guys reach a bulking 300 feet and are all very cool looking. They are 
 very fun to fight and are impressive no matter what's going on. Did I mention there absolutely 
 huge? To take them out, depending on the boss, you have to shoot them in a key place or just shoot 
 them period, either way there about as impressive as it gets and really shows what Painkiller is 
 capable of.
  
  The audio is no slouch either. The voice acting is top notch despite being a bit over dramatic 
 at times, especially when Daniel can't face having to fight through hordes of hellish monsters, 
 but hey who could!? The weapon sounds will make you jump every time you hear them and the heavy 
 metal music that plays every time a new wave of enemies comes your way is a hit and miss. I don't 
 mind the metal music since I can listen to all types of music equally, but some people will absolutely 
 hate it, that's about the only thing that brings down the game's audio. 
  
  Painkiller has some real good replay value. From the online like Quake deathmatch, team deathmatch, 
 and really cool deathmatch where your weapon you use changes every 30 seconds is a ton of fun, 
 especially when you think you have the guy with a shotgun blast, but then it turns to a chaingun/rocket 
 launcher gun and then you blast him with chaingun bullets which doesn't kill him instantly like 
 the shotgun would have. The single player game also has lots of replay value with the bonuses in 
 each mission. Every time you finish a mission you get a score and if you can get enough kills, 
 finish it in the right amount of time, get enough gold, and what difficulty you have it on all 
 ends up on the tarot cards you get, which gives you extra powers such as more damage and also opens 
 up bonus levels. These bonus levels can't be opened up on the easiest difficulty, so in order to 
 see the most of this game, you have to do it on harder difficulties. No matter what your skill, 
 the game can cater to you, whether your good at Serious sam like shooters or not. 
  
  Painkiller is a throwback to the glory days of Doom and Serious sam and the results is a must play 
 for shooter fans, but if the shooter genre isn't your thing, you might want to look eslewhere. 
 Still, this is a solid 10-15 hour game that has satisfying results, even though it can make you 
 go numb after a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Quintapus
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 17, 2005 11:37 pm PT
Review:  This review is for both the original game plus the Battle Out of Hell expansion. This game is stupid, 
 but for some reason I just love it.
  
  Gameplay: I played it on Trauma mode my first time so it was very hard. (I hate easy games!) Although 
 the gameplay is very simple it is also challenging. Normally I detest this type of game, (Serious 
 Sam, Blech!) however the unique setting and weapons changed my mind. (9)
  
  Graphics: Not perfect, but I thought they were great. (9)
  
  Sound: Nice soundtrack. Good sound 
 effects. (8)
  
  Value: 35 huge levels, but no mods for new weapons, maps or enemies. 
  Yes, there ARE 35 levels. Interesting, but ultimately lackluster multiplayer. (7)
  
  Tilt: 
 I'm extremely critical of games so I almost never give out nines or tens. This means eights (total 
 score) are about as good as it gets, so this game is definitely one of my favorites. (9)
  
  The Good: Every level is unique with different enemies and environments. Kickass weapons! Too bad 
 there were only seven. The bosses. 
  
  The Bad: Jumping over the pits on The Coliseum level on Trauma mode. Aaaarg! The Pentagon level. 
 No saving on Trauma mode. It's set in Purgatory and Hell and has demons in the cut-scenes, yet 
 aside for one boss there are no demons to kill and no fiery hell-like levels. That just sucks!
 
  
  Bottom Line: Although it is straightforward and admittedly lame it is also one of the best shooters 
 out there in my opinion. I can't wait for Painkiller 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CuteKiller
Rating: 7.7
Date: Dec 5, 2005 10:44 am PT
Review:  Well this game is a blast to gaming and can be called a horror gameNice story and superb graphics 
 make this game all in one, the main thing in the game is the weapons used, is unique, and gameplay 
 is good. The Demons are classified well and nice has nice horrifying sound effects. Looks good 
 on 5.1 channel speakers. Thats it the name is not rightit will give you some pain in your eyes, 
 hehe.. but you will enjoy this game much more. 
  
  With 4 bosses and great demons and wide enviroments and horrifying sound effects, I can give this 
 game a best first person shooter of its time.! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: morcegohoman
Rating: 7.4
Date: Dec 3, 2005 7:43 pm PT
Review:  I bought the game after seeing that it was being used in the Cyber Athlete Championship featuring 
 "Fatal1ty". I'm a big Unreal Tournament fan and Painkiller looked similar. I played the single 
 player mode so far and found it surprisingly addictive. Simple, brainless fun.
  
  I do have a gripe about the one on one levels where you have to beat a "Boss". Often they involved 
 some gimmick or illogical trick that I had to use a walkthrough to solve. To me it's got to be 
 logical or it's just not a good story, and I guess that's what I bought into in the first place.
 
  
  Second hand on eBay for 12 bucks is a good deal here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stamate
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 3, 2005 2:37 pm PT
Review:  cool cool cool cool cool coolcool cool coolcool cool coolcool cool coolcool cool coolcool cool 
 coolcool cool coolcool cool coolcool cool coolcool cool coolcool cool coolcool cool coolcool cool 
 coolcool cool coolcool cool coolcool cool coolcool cool coolcool cool coolcool cool coolcool cool 
 coolcool cool coolcool cool coolcool cool coolcool cool coolcool cool coolcool cool coolcool cool 
 coolcool cool coolcool cool coolcool cool coolcool cool coolcool cool coolcool cool coolcool cool 
 coolcool cool coolcool cool coolcool cool coolcool cool coolcool cool coolcool cool coolcool cool 
 coolcool cool coolcool cool coolcool cool coolcool cool coolcool cool coolcool cool coolcool cool 
 coolcool cool coolcool cool coolcool cool coolcool cool coolcool cool coolcool cool coolcool cool 
 coolcool cool coolcool cool coolcool cool coolcool cool coolcool cool coolcool cool coolcool cool 
 coolcool cool coolcool cool coolcool cool coolcool cool coolcool cool coolcool cool coolcool cool 
 coolcool cool coolcool cool coolcool cool coolcool cool coolcool cool coolcool cool coolcool cool 
 coolcool cool coolcool cool coolcool cool coolcool cool coolcool cool coolcool cool coolcool cool 
 coolcool cool coolcool cool coolcool cool coolcool cool coolcool cool coolcool cool coolcool cool 
 coolcool cool coolcool cool coolcool cool cool 
::::::

::::::
UserName: one-ring
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 27, 2005 7:31 pm PT
Review:  For those who have played serious sam know this is just like it. Except the weapons are a lot better, 
 it's a lot less difficult *IMO*, the graphics are better and the background music isn't annoying 
 *IMO*. This game is incredibly easy on it's two easy difficulties. Then there is a massive jump 
 into two insane difficulties but still are easier than a medium serious sam difficulty *IMO*. The 
 gameplay puts you against massive hordes of enemies and you play as a man awaiting judgement by 
 God to pass through the gates of heaven. The gameplay can get repetitive at times but it comes 
 through to itself in the end. The background music can be interesting sometimes and can really 
 relate to the area you could be currently in. The graphics are very good and you may need a decent 
 video card to be able to play it but nothing too fancy. All in all this game can be fun at times 
 but only if you're in the mood for it's type. *IMO* 
::::::

::::::
UserName: honeychugh
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 3, 2005 2:09 am PT
Review:  A Nice FPS, With Good Graphics And Soundtrack, But Gets Repetitive after Some time. But Not in d same 
 league as dat of DOOM 3 And Quake 4. Its Just an oll mill shooter with a nice graphics engine and 
 various new creepy guys running around, but the best thing this game provides us with is the ultra 
 cool painkiller weapon. Its really the most awesome weapon i, ve come across in years and is my fav 
 after the double barreled shotgun. The game levels provide enough variety to keep the players hooked 
 on but gets monotonous after some time. All in all its a fun game wich would basically appeal to 
 those who like old mill shooters just to blow up everything that moves. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zlorfff
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 31, 2005 4:17 am PT
Review:  This game is absolutely brilliant !!!!!! it's just so much fun to play, the weapons are amazing, 
 the designers had a lot of great ideas I think the guy that gave it 3.3 played a different game 
 xD graphics are great and i had no truble with playing it smoothely :P. Definitely better than 
 Doom 3, Quake 4 and all that other "scary", boring crap xD this review is based on the SP campaign, 
 unfortunately multiplayer sux a bit =S overall the game is brilliant and i can't remember ever 
 having so much fun with a FPS game.. the price is great to, really worth buying. GET IT !! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mazare
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 30, 2005 7:09 am PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  Gameplay is amazing. Game have also multiplayer!!! I doesn`t try it, but I think is very good. 
 Gameplay is better than in Half life 2!!!!! Here in this game are five chapters and a lot of typ 
 of mosters.
  
  Graphics:
  Graphics are OK, and are better than in Far cry!!!! Yes, but are often levels in night. Efects 
 are amazing.
  
  Sound:
  Sound is very good and also music and sound efects.
  
  Value:
  Yes game is very good. One of the best FPS games!!
  
  Tilt:
  Gameplay is very good 
 and also the graphics, music is very good!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anDy-PeNGuiN
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 29, 2005 5:11 am PT
Review:  Painkiller, a simple but fantastic FPS from People can fly. Based around a man who died in a car 
 crash and woke up to find himself in a war between heaven and hell. The objective of the game is 
 to complete levels in a certain way in order to get different painkiller cards which have different 
 powers, some levels can only be played when you have all the cards.
  
  This action packed gore fest is fantastic fun with an array of different monsters, Some small some 
 Absolutley gigantic, the biggest are the bosses. In the game you can use 5 different guns which 
 all have some great effects. 
  
  I had some problems with the multiplayer and long loading times did wind me up a little bit but 
 over all the game is great fun 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drswank
Rating: 8.2
Date: Oct 28, 2005 6:44 pm PT
Review:  The next wave of first-person shooters continues with Painkiller, a first-person shooter that combines 
 next-gen visuals with the old school run and gun gameplay of Doom II and Serious Sam. Though Painkiller 
 doesn't offer any gimmicks such as intelligent AI or stealth elements, it does offer plenty of 
 action that should appease the bloodlust of the most devoted FPS fan. 
  
  You play the part of Daniel Garner who, along with his wife, dies in a head-on collision with a 
 semi. After spending thirty years in purgatory, he's approached by the forces of heaven with a 
 mission to destroy the four generals of Lucifer. In return, Daniel would be reunited with his deceased 
 wife. The game is surprisingly story driven, as levels are interspersed with (not so great looking) 
 cut scenes that push the story along. 
  
  Daniel's journey takes him through five chapters and twenty-four levels of pulse pounding action. 
 The gameplay is similar to Serious Sam in the sense that you'll enter a room, all exits will be 
 blocked off and you'll be assaulted by wave after wave of monsters. After the demons are taken 
 care of, a check point appears, game saves. Wash , rinse, repeat. No annoying reloading. No night 
 vision goggles. No puzzle solving. There isn't even a crouch button. Your only goal is to kill 
 everything that gets in your way, keep your ammo full, and stay alive. Thankfully, ammo is plentiful 
 and life is restored by picking up the souls of dead demons. You'll consistently find yourself 
 at over 100 health if you play your cards right. If you're low, the next check point will kindly 
 restore it back to 100 for you at no charge. After collecting in the neighborhood of 65 souls, 
 Daniel will enter Demon Morph Mode where his vision goes almost thermal and he's able to administer 
 great justice to groups of demons with one click of the mouse button. 
  
  Speaking of dealing justice to demons, Painkiller has five creative weapons at your disposal. Though 
 it sounds like slim pickings, each weapon has a great alternate fire mode combined. Heck, they 
 even managed to combine a rocket launcher and mini gun successfully. That alone is worth some sort 
 of praise. Aside from that combination, the shotgun has an alternate fire that will freeze enemies 
 thus allowing you to shatter them with one shot, the ninja star gun has a lightning gun attachment, 
 and the stake gun doubles as a grenade launcher. Another weapon worth mentioning is the painkiller 
 weapon (otherwise refered to as blender on a stick) that will chop up any enemies in your path. 
 If an enemy is perched out of your reach, the alternate fire will launch the blade out and back 
 to you along with the dead enemy so you can pick up the sweet, sweet soul within. Each weapon is 
 great for certain situations and by the end of the game you'll easily know what your favorite is. 
 A rocket launcher and a mini gun I say! 
  
  Lucky for heaven, the forces of hell aren't much in terms of smarts. Enemies don't really display 
 any kind of AI. They prefer to run right at you and let their large numbers do the talking rather 
 than duck behind cover. You'll sometimes see demons stuck running up against objects only opting 
 to come after you when you're spotted. In the early levels, they won't attack unless you're right 
 up against them or you miss on a shot. Later on however, they get guns, crossbows, and other melee 
 weapons that make you realize they aren't as moronic as you originally thought them to be. On the 
 subject of enemies, there's a great variety of them. In addition to the usual assortment of undead 
 skeletons and zombies, you'll also go up against knights, crowbar carrying dock workers, bikers 
 with guns, crazed cult members, and even witches. Why so many ends of the spectrum you ask? The 
 game takes you through a wide variety of environments from cemeteries to medieval castles and from 
 military bases to decrepit monasteries. Granted, it all sounds like a bad trip, but the levels 
 actually come together well. Chapters all have a theme to them (modern, gothic, etc) so you won't 
 be jumping from Camelot to Area 51 within five minutes time. Aside from your ultimate survival 
 and efficiency as a killing machine, each level has a secret goal that can optionally be achieved. 
 Early levels have simple goals like kill all monsters or pick up 100 souls. Later levels will 
 handicap you with objectives like use only painkiller weapon or don't pick up armor. Completing 
 these goals will garner tarot cards that will give you an edge in battle. When you pick one up, 
 you can put it into a number of allocated slots in between levels for a fee that you pay with coins 
 that you pick up from breaking objects and blowing things up during levels. These cards give you 
 abilities like haste, half damage, and can allow souls to stay longer. Some cards, like haste, 
 only have temporary effects, in which you're charged coins for each use. 
  
  The old school doesn't end with the single player game. Painkiller's multiplayer modes also offer 
 the same old school, fast paced feel of the classics. Though it's all deathmatch based (sorry CTF 
 fans) , there are different spins on the DM formula like a mode where all players have the same 
 weapon with unlimited ammo (bring on the rocket launcher chain gun!) or the mode where one person 
 has infinite double damage and the other players have to kill them to get it. The gameplay is simple, 
 but fun. Painkiller throws teamwork out of the window and makes it every man for himself. 
  
  The visuals in painkiller are great, just slightly below the other games that are either coming 
 out now or due to come out in the next six months. While Far Cry made my system weep at times, 
 the modest requirements made Painkiller run like a dream. The havok engine is in full effect here 
 as monsters crumple down (or in the case of the stake gun, get their lifeless bodies pinned to 
 the wall) with great rag doll effects, hanging corpses sway when you walk through them, and old 
 merchant carts flip through the air after an explosion. The game also features a ton of destructible 
 objects. Barrels, fire extinguishers, and bags of fireworks explode like it's going out of style 
 and you can destroy almost every pot, coffin, wooden palette, and window you come across. One would 
 never know how many things were capable of blowing up. Monsters also look great and it's worth 
 noting that the boss monsters are larger than anything you fought in Serious Sam and it doesn't 
 tax the system at allwell, I guess that depends. Environments are also well done and offer some 
 really impressive locations, like the opera house with the giant theater complete with giant chandelier 
 hanging above while in the middle of battle, will come crashing down spraying particles everywhere. 
 Lots of particles. Blood also realistically run down walls, while it's probably not important to 
 you, it's the best I've seen in a game yet. One could wish the same could be said for the CG. While 
 the game introduces you to a very nude Eve in between chapters, the models all look like plastic 
 figures that lip sync like an old Godzilla movie. Ironically, Asmodius is the best looking CG model 
 and he's not even human. People Can Fly should have stuck to the impressive game engine here, but 
 then again, I'm only a lowly reviewer. 
  
  The game does a great job with sound as well. Everything from footsteps to gunshots sound great 
 and pack a lot of punch. Levels have some generic ambient noise and shifts into a hard rock track 
 when trouble is near. Not just generic hard rock mind you, this is hard rock that you wouldn't 
 be embarrassed to blast on the drive to work. Even with the windows rolled down. In a nutshell, 
 the music is great. All enemies growl, grunt, or speak in tongues as would be expected and it's 
 all executed well. Daniel and the supporting cast all do a good job of voice acting as well and 
 don't hold back any emotion or sound awkward. 
  
  Painkiller can only be described as a non-stop thrill ride that will take you through thousands 
 of demons, a wide variety of stylish environments and into the very bowels of hell itself while 
 still managing to be fun all along the way. In this day of stealthy and tactical shooters, it's 
 good just to be able to run at full speed and gun down everything in your path, though the fun 
 can wear off and turn into routine towards the end. It's been a while since something this deliciously 
 old school has come along and is definitely worth looking into. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: KrAzY_Croat
Rating: 7.3
Date: Oct 28, 2005 2:54 pm PT
Review:  Do not be mistaken, Painkiller is a good game despite my rating, but it is not nearly as fun or 
 imaginitive as the Serious Sam franchise. 
  
  The gameplay is not the games strong point, as killing stuff is just not as satisfying as Sam is. 
 The weapons are wierd too. What genius thought of welding a rocket launcher to a gattling gun? 
 
  
  Graphics are however the games strong point, with good texturing and Doom-Like shadowing. This 
 game however is a pretty good value, and for cheap thrills or stress reducing you should give this 
 game a try.
  
  LONG LIVE SERIOUS SAM!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rabilly
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 26, 2005 6:36 am PT
Review:  This is what pc gameing is all about, a real great game.
  Incredable monsters surreal suroundings fantastic sounds .
  You must have this game!
  What 
 better way to spend your time is there, fight your way through loads of locations including an asylum 
 a opera house and graveyards.
  Blast, steak, freeze, slice or even ray burn your enemies, such like zombies, ninjas crazy head exploding 
 nutters and wierd creepy crawling creatures.
  Go on give it a go you won't be dissapointed.
  It is advisable to download this games latest 
 patches as you will not be able to play online without them.
  Not yet finished playing Painkiller it has much more than my gaming time can cope with but a little 
 a day keeps me happy and it makes your games last that much longer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lil_stucky
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 18, 2005 11:08 pm PT
Review:  Nice and Gory, like i like it. Would of been nice to not have the goal of just killing every enemy. 
 any puzzles in this game were simple. Replay value i would say is low to medium. Either way i still 
 play it just to blast demons into gory messes. The expansion gives you more gamplay but not much 
 difference. still fun. Multiplayer is bombed in this one. Very bad multiplayer action, the game 
 is best as a single player where it was designed. Dont expect any great fun on that part. still 
 i advise you to get it, cuz i said so. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ufopuller
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 29, 2005 7:56 pm PT
Review:  The action in Painkiller starts immediately. The weapons look like a combination of prehistoric 
 sharp stick launchers to quite sophisticated electrically shocking emitters. To run through a group 
 of demons with the spinning knife blades is immensely satisfying. Blood splatters everywhere. 
 
  
  The enemy is relentless. At every turn there are from armies of minute "ankle-biters" to immense 
 demons. The Biker Demons were the authors's all time favorites. Everything has the ability to be 
 damaged by the gamer's weapons. That is, from furniture to simple barrels. Most relinquish gold 
 coins when destroyed, but the gamer has to be quick. The gold coins do not linger long. If one 
 is not quick, enough they will disappear. Collecting gold coins and fighting oncoming enemy does 
 not easily compute. Pick up too many coins, too slowly, and the player is dead meat. The final 
 score card after each episode is a nice touch to keep one on top of the game play.
  
  The graphics of this game are unparalleled. It would be very difficult not to just stop game play 
 and admire the Gothic chapels and intricate building design. All in all this is Croteam's Serious 
 Sam played in hell.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bluwave
Rating: 8.3
Date: Sep 21, 2005 6:23 am PT
Review:  This game has excellent single player action, that brings back old memories of doom. Some original 
 weapons and good graphics, make this game a bargain for 20 bucks... The game also runs smoothly 
 on my 1.8 amd, which can't be said for other games. The game seems a little too easy for what I 
 am use too... But its fun laying waste to hordes of baddies one after another :)
  
  If you want to play multiplayer, forget it. Game is meant for single player action, there is almost 
 no way to hit anyone in multiplayer mode because the game moves to fast. Also, good luck finding 
 a server with more than 2 players on it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dark_orb
Rating: 8.4
Date: Sep 20, 2005 2:11 pm PT
Review:  Painkiller is truly a homage to the classic Doom games and Quake 1. As far as gameplay is concerned 
 it is a throwback to these games where you just ran around and shot anything and everything. No 
 lock and key, no real puzzles, no story interrupting the gameplay. Just level after level of eye 
 burningly beautiful action. And in it's simplicity it comes over as a great game.
  Painkiller's story is told through some very purdy cutscenes in between the games 5 chapters. Summed 
 up: You are a man named Daniel, you died in a car crash with your wife and for reasons beyond you 
 are in the realm between Heaven and Hell. God offers you passage into Heaven, provided you track 
 down Lucifers generals and take out his armies. Simple enough and the little story the game features 
 is told outside of gameplay itself so as not to interrupt the steady stream of death.
  The visuals in Painkiller are top notch, the graphics are in the same league as Half Life 2/ Doom 
 3 yet the game was released months before either of these. The textures are especially detailed 
 and if you stop to look at some of the environments and monsters then will likely notice the level 
 of detail. The environments are quite varied but they all have a dark, dirty look to them which 
 is usually accented by really good use of lighting effects. Actually to say that the levels are 
 varied is an understatement. The levels in Painkiller are very well designed and each is quite 
 unique. One level you'll be running around a graveyard, the next an insane asylum, the next some 
 underground caves. All the while fending off a wave after wave of demons. Another of Painkillers 
 great visual features would be it's insane use of the Havoc 2.0 physics engine. I just can't get 
 tired of sending monsters flying with a close range shotgun blast. Suffice it to say the rag doll 
 effects in this game are best Ive ever seen.
  The sound in Painkiller also deserves mention. The game has 2 different soundtracks for each level. 
 The first would be a dark creepy ambient track made for the few quiet interludes for the levels. 
 However when the action starts the game switches over a high energy metal track which makes the 
 carnage even more fun.
  The gameplay is at it's core very simple but insanely fun. You are given a total of 5 separate 
 weapons, all of these have completely different secondary fire modes. Like a shotgun that fires 
 nitrogen shots which freeze your enemies for a short time, or a combination rocket launcher chain 
 gun which is probably the most versatile weapon ever to be used in a shooter. The most unique weapon 
 in Painkiller would likely be the "steak Gun" which fires enormous wooden stakes at a high speed, 
 this gun while it may take some time to get used to as it features a high reload time (where the 
 other weapons have none) is very fun. On top of your weapons you get "Black Tarot Cards" for each 
 level. To unlock these cards you must finish the levels in a particular manner like using only 
 one particular weapon, or in a set amount of time, or find all the ammo. These cards can be used 
 in any combination of up to 3 once per level and serve to grant you combat advantages for a few 
 seconds. 
  The AI in Painkiller is by far nothing advanced, the enemies either run towards you with a sword 
 of some kind or shoot things at you from a distance. But Painkiller isn't a game focused on AI, 
 the challenge is in defeating hordes of enemies. You'll be faced with wave after wave of enemies 
 that are as highly varied as the levels themselves. Then at the end of Painkillers five chapters 
 you'll be faced with a boss. These fights are quite epic in scale as you'll be finding yourself 
 looking up at these bosses since they tower several stories high.
  The only problems with the game are that even on the hardest difficulty the game isn't very hard, 
 and though the physics engine makes sure that each time you blast something it falls differently 
 and in an entertaining manner the game gets repetitious after a while and becomes a bit of trial 
 and error in some parts. So it isn't something you are going to play for more then a week or two 
 straight. Also throughout the whole game you'll be faced with load times that are longer then most 
 people would like, even on fast machines.
  So basically if you are still a fan of Doom 2 this game should do it for you. Otherwise if you 
 like shooters and are looking for some mindless trigger happy fun that you can play for a half 
 hour or so at a time then this game is for you. If you are looking for a shooter that will challenge 
 you on a strategic level with complex environments and AI or is very story intensive, then youll 
 have to look elsewhere. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JW_Cleve
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 15, 2005 8:01 am PT
Review:  Wow was I ever shocked at how good Painkiller is! I wasn't sure what to think at first, but went 
 ahead and took a chance and bought it anyways. Although the graphics on the first few levels were 
 nothing spectacular, later levels had some fairly nice grpahics. My only real complaint about graphics 
 are the enemies themselves. Some of them look pretty cheesey. Sound is pretty good. I like the 
 music alot and sound FX are ok. Gameplay is nice. Smooth animation, cool weapons effects on enemies, 
 fast responsive control, and quick loadtimes are just some of the better atributes of gameplay. 
 Speaking of weapons, but am I the only one who thinks the Painkiller and the stake gun are two 
 of the coolest weapons ever in a FPS? The Painkiller is a very surprizingly powerful weapon once 
 you learn how to use it and the stake gun is just plain cool. What other FPS'r can you run a wooden 
 stake through a couple baddies and pin em to the wall? It's a bit hard to use and slow on the reload, 
 but when used properly can be a highly effective as well as entertaining weapon to use. The storyline 
 is pretty cool and original as well. All in all, I was impressed by this one and feel that it stands 
 a cut above the rest of the FPS'r in orginality and addictiveness. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Skakruk
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jul 28, 2005 8:35 am PT
Review:  What can I tell folk - this one is, definitely, one of the best FPS ever ! Blanced, and sometimes, innovative 
 gameplay, extremely good graphics for unknown developer [It's their first game !] , great sound and 
 very atmosperic and challenging music, and, of course, it's great genre value makes this exciting 
 game one of the best FPS action on PC.
  Firstly, you don't have to have a high-end PC to run it, unlike Doom3: and on top of that ,Painkiller 
 provides much greater enjoyment of it, than boring and not-a-bit challenging Doom3.
  Secondly, this game IS what many games and gamers have forgotten, just like Serious Sam and Doom 
 1 & 2 - M E A T !!!!! Old school action never has been so great like in Painkiller. This is its 
 greatest and strongest of its points. And its crazy ACTION is very cool accompanied by excellent 
 soundtrack, that creates unique feeling of playing, that, I can bet, many of us, gamers, haven't felt 
 from times playing classic Doom, Heretic, Blood and many other jewels of FPS action !
  That's definitely best describing this excellent game can get, that's for sure! Don't hesitate - 
 install and play ! Feel the power of Painkiller !!!!!!
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: L33tBudDha
Rating: 5.4
Date: Apr 20, 2005 8:25 pm PT
Review:  The good: 
  
  1) Performance: Painkiller performs very well on today's gaming boxes. Running on a system with 
 a p4, good FSB speed, gig of ram, and an FX series nvidia or comparible card you should have zero 
 issues with your frames per second. The game installs somewhat slow which can be annoying to someone 
 drooling for a fix. The sceens load quickly well all accept the "boss" sceens which take considerable 
 time to load.
  *** Note: This is version 1.0 of the game. When I installed the patches my system took a nose dive 
 in performance. I've encountered none of the major issues in the single player mode that the patches 
 "fixed" so I would not recommend applying these patches if all you plan on doing is playing the 
 single player. ***
  
  2) Gameplay: This game is very easy to pick up and learn. I would give the learning curve to a 
 beginning FPS gamer less than 30 minutes to become adept enough to defeat the game in reasonable 
 time. To a seasoned gamer you will need to be quite intoxicated to not find the gameplay overly 
 easy. Which could be a downer but I am trying to be objective here!
  
  The bad: 
  
  1) Combat: The combat is very early 90's. The enemies have piss poor AI with equally poor pathing. 
 You enter a room and imediatly the doorway behind you becomes blocked and you now have to fight 
 30 or so creatures. After the 4th time you do this and realise the entire game is going to be just 
 this you begin to think this was a very well done amatuer game instead of a major release. All 
 you do is slaughter through hundreds of enemies with no need for skill, thought, or even reflexes 
 in the gaming sense. Was good back in the early 90's but there's a reason FPS's have evolved.
 
  
  2) Soundtrack: The soundtrack is almost nonexistent which is fine. Most FPS's I end up turning 
 the music off but in this game it plays a part as the music only comes on when you have enemies 
 in the area.
  
  3) Audio: The games audio is trash. YOu have your monsters making noise when they die, you have 
 some cheap sounds here and there, and of course the groan of the boss characters. They had such 
 potential in this area as do most FPS's but they fell far short of even shooting par. Triple bogie 
 for these lads.
  
  4) Challenge: There is next to no challenge in this game other than the 4 Generals of Hell that 
 any experienced gamer will encounter. The game is far too easy on standard mode. All you need are 
 some of the basic skills of a FPS gamer and you will sleepwalk through Painkiller.
  
  5) Story: Anytime you get heaven and hell involved the story possibilities are limitless and potentialy 
 great. However Painkiller fell far short of what could have been. Cheesy intro to the game followed 
 by a laughable dialog between your character who is dead and now in Limbo yet still able to die, 
 eh? You are told to kill the devil's four generals of hell if you want to see your wife again. 
 Kill... generals of hell... who are obviously already dead... since their in hell.... then of course 
 you are asked if you want weapons... to which you reply no because obviously you know where to get 
 weapons since you have survived this long in limbo errr pergatory. So you naturally find a shotgun 
 lying around on the ground.... and shells planted throughout the game, in hell, in limbo, because 
 what says the afterlife quite like shotguns? 
  
  The ugly:
  
  1) Pathing: The pathing in this game is pretty shotty. If you are faced with a hoard of nasties 
 that you can not seem to defeat (you shouldn't but just in case you can't) just find a crevice 
 somewhere in a wall or between a couple of large static objects and let the enemy come to you in 
 angles that allow only yourself with a ranged weapon a chance to kill while they just run around 
 going where is he?! These mistakes I'd not expact in a game designed in the more advanced era of 
 FPS's that I believe I live in.
  
  To sum this game up, I killed a general of hell with a shotgun. The fight was fun but uhm, I killed 
 him with a shotgun. I also found shotgun ammo around him. Shotgun ammo, in hell. But of course? 
 This game has no story to it worth paying attention to. This game is designed for one thing and 
 one thing only and that's to appeal to the gamer who wants to just load up and shoot stuff. Problem 
 is I stopped being that gamer when I started paying bills. If you're 13 you may find this enjoyable. 
 If you're not, this gamer says don't spend the money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bupp
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 10, 2006 9:01 pm PT
Review:  The day I bought Painkiller, I had no intention to buy it. In fact, before I saw it on the shelf 
 at EB Games, I didn't even know Painkiller existed. But when I saw the box and looked at the back, 
 something about it grabbed me. The graphics maybe? The promise of great physics? Or the images 
 of big guns and demons from Hell? Whatever grabbed me about this game, I'm glad it did, because 
 Painkiller is very fun.
  
  Painkiller is a very simple shooter that is a lot like the shooters of old. You play as a guy who 
 died many years ago and has been stuck in Purgatory. At the start of the game, an angel tells you 
 that God is giving you a chance to get into Heaven. All you have to do is kill Satan's four general.
 
  
  The game takes you to a bunch of different locales somewhere between Purgatory and Hell where you'll 
 fight all sorts of Lucifer's minions with four different weapons. Each weapon has a primary fire 
 and a secondary one which usually shoots something completely different. The best gun in Painkiller 
 and probably in any game anywhere is the combo Rocket Launcher and Chaingun. It packs a hell of 
 a punch and seldom runs out of ammo.
  
  Like I said before, Painkiller is very straightforward. You walk into an area, the doors in front 
 of and behind you close and tons of enemies run in. Kill the enemies and the doors open. Proceed 
 through the door. Repeat.
  
  That's pretty much how the whole game plays out and although that probably sounds pretty boring, 
 the variety in enemies and locales keeps the gameplay pretty interesting.
  
  The greatest thing about Painkiller is the boss battles. All of the bosses are gigantic - literally 
 stories high and they all wield some sort of really deadly weapon. That smashes your surroundings 
 to bits (the boss battles are where the physics engine really shines) . When you kill a boss, you 
 really feel like you've just done something amazing.
  
  Painkiller is pretty much just a really fun, stupid, straightforward game with hardly any plot 
 and absolutely no depth to it. It can be most easily described as a pretty version of Doom. But 
 hey - is that a bad thing? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dudeeemadudbomb
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 15, 2007 11:21 am PT
Review:  I've heard of this game really glitching out on people. The worst that happened to me was getting 
 the patch and having all my latest save-game corrupted. Some people have bad luck, some people 
 are lucky, and some people are in between. The game does have some Bugs, but I did'nt find ti to 
 be all that bad.
  
  Now for the generic review part:
  Graphics: The game looks good in every way. Got great water effects, lots of polygons and great 
 textures. It runs well on almost hardware. As long as you have a geforce Ti440 you can run it on 
 medium. Thats pretty good, when you make note of how good everything looks. Sound: The sound is 
 good also. I'm usually good with sound as long as it's not a Super Nintendo noise.
  
  Fun Time: This game is just like serious sam. If you've played that you'll know what to expect. 
 You get lots of enemies charging at you, and you get plenty of guns to gib everybody with. The 
 wide open spaces are quite detailed, even they are quite vast.
  Now everything I just said is in line with Serious Sam, except for two things:
  You get 5 guns, 
 but they each have secondary fire. For instance a Rocket Launcher's secondary fire is a Chaingun. 
 It's like 2 - in- 1, and you don't need to switch anything to go a Grenade Launcher from a Stakegun. 
 And you won't get to any real wide open spaces for a while. I have it set to 8 because of crashes 
 *you* -might- =experience= .... But you can get it for 20-30 dollars.
  
  Now for some gibby action. Enemies blow into 5 pieces everytime. Head, body 2 arms 2 legs. And 
 it's that or nothing, no individual limb loss here. {Unless you count a certain enemy's ability 
 to lose his head and go into spinning frenzy with a sword. But another enemy invokes that. It's 
 got spraying action!} The blood goes all over the floor, and only the meaty-ish part of a gib makes 
 a stain. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CptSnakeCole
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 31, 2005 2:05 pm PT
Review:  Well, the game reminds me of Serious Sam. One enters a level kills hoards of attackers, etc. Level 
 after level of the same thing over and over again. I would not recommend anyone buying this game 
 or the expansion pack. Luckily, I only paid 19.99 for the game. Well, It seems that I have not 
 written enough characters to submit my review, so I'll keep typing. Still not enough words. Ok, 
 Each level of the game is repetitive to the previous level. The only difference is that the characters 
 appearance changes. You know this 100 word thing is really a pain in the butt. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: servadac42
Rating: 3.3
Date: Mar 18, 2005 4:33 pm PT
Review:  Another cool FPS sounded... well, cool, so I tried this one out, although I had not heard much 
 about it. At least not compared to the mammoth FPS releases of 2004, like Half-Life 2, Doom III 
 etc. The back story seems to be about a guy who kills evil things, and there are all these symbols 
 and stuff, like pentagrams. Ok, so that setup is getting a bit old but oh well who cares, on with 
 the killing of things. The gaining of weapons as you progress through the game is a classic, confirmed 
 and tested way of creating an FPS. Still you seem to already have your whole arsenal handy from 
 the start in this one. I think this way of doing it sucks because the whole sense of discovery 
 and learning a new weapon when you get them in sequence as you progress, is lost completely. In 
 games like Painkiller you figure out which weapon is the best and then you stick with that. Not 
 very fun, is it.
  
  The graphics are praised by the other reviewers here, but don't trust them too quickly, or when 
 playing the game you're gonna be sorely disappointed. In fact, to my trained eyes they look awful, 
 they look even *worse* than an old game like Quake II for example. And it gets worse even still, 
 because considering the graphics are simple and boring they still chop and lag like nobody's business 
 even on my 3.2 ghz with a good graphics card! Half-Life 2, Doom III, Far Cry and so on run like 
 a dream, games that have much more advanced and better graphics! Painkiller has a heart attack 
 as soon as the next gang of enemies teleport unto the area.
  
  I think the gameplay for Wolfenstein 3D, Id's extremely early FPS with by today's standards completely 
 outdated graphics, is way better than the way this game plays. Point your gun and shoot the bad 
 guys and then move to other area. Repeat from step one. The tired old way of playing that many 
 accuse Doom III of having, this game suffers badly from partly since it has none of the atmosphere 
 or scares of said game by Id software. Personally I think Doom III has excellent gameplay, but 
 this is just what most reviewers complained about in that game. Worth mentioning is also that the 
 character you play as in this game walks like John Cleese in the episode of Fawlty Towers where 
 he impersonates a fascistic German soldier by his walk. It's very strange. Stay away from this 
 game and play a good FPS instead. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KansasFF
Rating: 5.7
Date: Mar 14, 2005 8:31 pm PT
Review:  Sometimes there are games that you hear such good things about that they can't just live up to 
 the standards others' have set for them. Then there are other games that no one wants to set standards 
 for. This game, is of the latter. I was super disapointed with the multiplayer aspect of the game. 
 Not only is it laggy and dark, but it lacks player support. When I goto an online lobby it is impossible 
 to find a decent game with good settings. If you are playing this game for the multiplayer or to 
 goto CPL, I suggest possibly taking a different route, via counter-strike: source. I can only hope 
 that a better successor for 1v1 Deathmatch can come out soon. The single player of this game is 
 not terribly bad, but lacks some depth in thought. I did enjoy some of the animations and death 
 sequences, but I felt the rest of the game became bland and repetitive. Overall I give this game 
 a C. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: him42
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 6, 2005 7:59 am PT
Review:  Painkiller is a satisfying and violent FPS that shows its old school roots in its simple yet fun 
 gameplay. The gameplay is very fast place and simple, focusing on running around shooting everything 
 that moves, but somehow it never gets boring. The enemies that Painkiller throws at you are highly 
 varied and just plain creepy most of the time. Their models are highly detailed and very convincing. 
 Painkiller's visuals may not be as technically advanced as those of Half-Life 2's or Doom 3's, 
 but they still manage to look absolutly amazing. The envirnments are stunning and filled with complex 
 geometry, and the textures are some of the most detailed textures ive ever seen in a game. Painkiller 
 uses a physics engine that really makes killing your enemies a whole lot of fun. Rag doll bodies 
 go flying through the air, get blown into pieces, and sometimes get stuck to walls by a brilliant 
 weapon called the stake gun. Whenever a large battle begins, a heavy rock soundtrack starts up 
 in the back ground and pumps you up for mayhem. Speaking of large and mayhem, the boss battles 
 are amongst the most intense I've seen. If you think you've seen large bosses before, think again. 
 The bosses in Painkiller are often so big that they tower thousands of feet above you. Taking down 
 a boss who can take dozens of rockets to the crotch is truely satisfying. Multiplayer in Painkiller 
 is pretty standard for a FPS, but fun and easy to get into. Anybody who has played Quake multiplayer 
 will feel right at home. If you are a fan of FPS games, fast paced or slow paced, I suggest picking 
 up Painkiller. The experiance is intense and shouldn't be missed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nordafrost
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 3, 2005 7:55 am PT
Review:  System Requirements::
  System: 1.5GHz Pentium III or AMD Athlon processor or equivalent 
  CD-ROM: 8X CD-ROM 
  Video Memory: 64 MB VRAM 
  Hard Drive Space: 1200 MB 
  DVD-ROM: 8X DVD-ROM 
 
  Other: RAM: 384MB; DirectX 8.1b or better compatible
  
  Recommended::
  System: 2.4GHz Pentium 4 or AMD Athlon processor or equivalent 
  RAM: 512 MB RAM 
  CD-ROM: 
 8X CD-ROM 
  Video Memory: 128 MB VRAM 
  Hard Drive Space: 1200 MB 
  DVD-ROM: 8X DVD-ROM 
  Other: DirectX 9 card, NVIDIA GeForce FX 5700 or better
  
  
  Gameplay: 
 
  feels like serious sam with a dark twist to it in that you have to kill a certain amount (usually 
 around 50 or so) to advance to the next room to kill more enemies using original weapons that a 
 themed well to the game, such as the very inventive Painkiller weapon that you start out with.. 
 not to mention the outstanding physics engine that has been implemented.. ultra realistic, maybe 
 a little exaggerated at times, the physics engine is enough to make me play it just so i can lob 
 a grenade in a swarm of enemies to see their body parts fly all over.. 
  
  Graphics:
  great graphics that are supremely detailed in every aspect of the game, including environments, 
 weapons, and enemies.. although the lighting effects are not that great..
  
  Sound:
  the sound changes from dark, ambient music, which i prefer, to a repetitive guitar similar to that 
 of the dynasty warriors series.. even on different levels, the guitar sounds like the previous 
 level's soundtrack.. 
  
  Story::
  basically you are this guy who died and he is trying to get back to his wife, but first he must 
 help kill lucifers 4 main generals before he attacks heaven.. pretty bland and predicatable, but 
 then again, this type of game doesnt necessarily require a great story..
  
  Value: 
  the replay on this game is a little above average as there are certain goals you must reach to 
 unlock tarot cards that you can equip and use to help you in battle.. there is also a multiplayer, 
 but very few people have been on when i have.. 
  
  overall i would give this game around a 8.5 - 8.9 just because it is so fun to play, but because 
 it is so repetitive, i could only take it in small doses.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trevor_25
Rating: 7.8
Date: Feb 24, 2005 4:03 pm PT
Review:  For all of you OG Doom people this is the game for you. Painkiller takes you straight back to some 
 of the OG style FPS games. Its in your face with lots of blood and gore, little story, and fast 
 paced action. Beware, play this game only if you dont get motion sickness real easily.
  
  The game is setup in a simple manner. 5 levels, each containing 5 levels, and 5 bosses. Would have 
 been more appropriate to do 6,6,6, LOL!! You fight your way through the first 4 levels of each 
 stage and then get ready for GIGANTIC boss battles. Easy to comprehend, no?
  
  The story is even simpler. You are Daniel and one rainy night you and your wife are headed for 
 some fun on the town when, BAM, you get nailed by a truck killing you both. You wake up in some 
 netherworld/purgatory place where you must strike a deal with some "agent" of God or perhaps its 
 the devil to get through. You also meet up with some other characters along the way, none more 
 interesting than "Eve", yea I know, who is half naked and pretty hot. The only real mystery concerning 
 the story is why is Daniel in Purgatory and not heaven. You shall have to play through to find 
 out.
  
  The best aspect by far of this game is the action. Its intense! The devs put in tons of diverse 
 enemies, weapons and interactive environments to mess around with. From the minute you start this 
 game up to the very last boss you get ballz out action. Your objective is to survive. Along the 
 way there are tons of barrel and chests to explode, coins to collect, souls to suck, and ammo to 
 find. The diversity of weaponry is nice considering each weapon has two types of fire. On normal 
 mode you never have a lack of ammo so blast away. No Resident Evil style conservation necessary 
 here. One aspect of the game that is necessary to achieve some of the special bonuses in the game 
 are the tarot cards you unlock along the way. There are black ones and silver ones. Each one has 
 different effects including greater health, souls stick around longer, time slows down or you speed 
 up, etc. These cards are necessary to complete some of the bonus objectives given to you on each 
 level, but not so much to just get through the levels. Adds some replayability to the game. Speaking 
 of bonuses, there are tons of secrets to find in this game. Some easy, some hard. More replayability.
 
  
  Did I mention replayability??? Well, perhaps not. You see the game gets repetitive. For all the 
 fun action, the levels start to blur together a little along the way. The graphics are fairly average 
 considering some of the other FPS out there right now (HL2, Doom3, Far Cry, etc) . The music while 
 cool at first most definitely gets annoying after hearing it for the 1000 time. The weapons, while 
 diverse, pretty much are available from early in the game to the end, so you dont really get to 
 many new weapons as you progress. Once you play the first couple of stages you really have played 
 them all.
  
  The one redeeming thing that keeps you playing is the BOSS BATTLES. I capitalized this because 
 the bosses are HUGE in this game. They take up massive amounts of the arenas you fight them in 
 and pack some serious power. None of them are particularly hard to kill, but they are fun.
  
  So all in all this game is a throwback, pure OG FPS. Its fun to a point and even thogh a little 
 repetitive the game should be a part of any FPS fan's library of games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: metallimoose
Rating: 7.6
Date: Feb 11, 2005 12:00 pm PT
Review:  Painkiller is a throwback to the gunslinging first-person shooters of old, when blasting things 
 in the face was the point, and plot was an irrelevant after-thought. When most games attempt this 
 sort of emphasis on action, the results are ineffective -- after all, developing the nuances of game 
 combat is a far harder task than merely crafting a decent little story. But Painkiller pulls its 
 purpose off very well. The game isn't smart, but the action sure is.
  
  The game is entirely action -- as Dan Garner, you hop from level to level, trudging through scores 
 and scores of inane enemies, and blasting them with whatever weapons you've got handy. The initial 
 cutscene that sets this all up -- in which the deceased Garner is told by an angel that Heaven needs 
 him to slaughter Hell's four generals -- is rather goofy, and in a bad way. It takes itself a little 
 bit too seriously, a mistake in a game of this caliber. But it's over quickly, and then you're 
 off to the killing.
  
  The action is very visceral, with the graphics lending a nice, smooth look to it all. The physics 
 engine is perhaps the greatest quality of the game -- blast an explosive barrel, and the nearby enemies 
 are catapulted through the air. The physics engine is also on fine display during the first boss 
 battle. You fight a giant of an enemy amid olden ruins -- the pillars stumble and fall around you 
 as the giant beast stomps and smashes with rage. It's a great fight, purely immersive, and it's 
 the scene I most remember.
  
  My only complaints lie with the weapons selection -- you only get 5, and a bit more would have been 
 nice, though what's here is certainly entertaining. Also, the levels feel disjointed. The lands 
 between Heaven, Hell, and Purgatory may not be as continuous as the ones in this realm, but I still 
 wish they had gelled together a bit better.
  
  I only spent a handful of hours with Painkiller, as it's not really my sort of game. But if slaughtering 
 hordes of faceless foes sounds like your idea of good time, then go for it -- you could certainly 
 do worse than Painkiller. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChaseDR
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 26, 2005 3:18 pm PT
Review:  In recent years, the PC market became increasingly dominated by semi-realistic first person shooters. 
 More complex games are emerging, and doom clones are commonly regarded as repetitive and stale. 
 But that doesn't stop People Can Fly from developing Painkiller. You are not going to rescue any 
 hostages, you are not going to capture any key installations. Painkiller is run and gun of the 
 purest form.
  The gameplay is basic. You are put into a level, and PCF will release monsters after monsters at 
 you. The action is well pace, and you won't feel the game coming to a sudden stop because of the 
 lack of monsters to kill, or the lack of goodies to grab.
  It's part of the level design, PCF puts a lot of effort into the maps of the game, monsters spawn 
 point are always very well thought out, and ammos and golds are well scattered throughout the levels. 
 There's a lot of different style of maps in the game, you will be fighting in palace, forest, prison. 
 These variety of environment being very different in architectural structure often plays differently 
 from each other.
  Painkiller have a few, but pretty exciting selection of weapons. All of them are actually dual 
 mode, but some actually have three modes of attacks. The stakegun can launch fast moving stakes 
 at enemies, but it's also a grenade launcher. You can actually stake your own grenades to launch 
 a powerful large splash damage projectile at enemies to compensate for the lack of rocket launcher 
 in the begining of the game. So despite the small number of weapons, there's a lot of ways to kill. 
 And what PCF have done very well is there's a weapon for every situation in the game; A product 
 of a well balance single player weapons.
  But in my opinion, the best part of Painkiller are easily the boss fights. They are always massive, 
 brutal, and their designs are creative. Some bosses are standard shoot to kill procedures, but 
 certain requires you to find they weakness in order to put an end to them. It's really a style 
 of play that went missing in PC FPS which is probably due to the lack of shooters of such genre.
 
  My complaint about Painkiller is that the game gets kind of easy compared to shooters of it's 
 kind, such as Serious Sam: Second Encounter. Quakeworld bunny hopping is way to easy to pull off 
 as all you have to do is to hit space and repeat, hence players are granted a lot of speed to avoid 
 all of the melee enemies in the game. The hopping is cool, just that it's too easy to do compared 
 to quake series.
  Other than the minor nitpick. Painkiller is a game that although doesn't have a lot to offer, it's 
 just plain fun once the action gets going. Complete the game on the highest difficulty and you'll 
 even get an alt ending. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wiggywiz
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 12, 2005 8:57 pm PT
Review:  Sometimes it was darn near frustrating, and i found the whole tarrot card thing lame and unreliable. 
 I didnt really ever use it that much as the action was so intense I never remembered too.
  
  But the story, the levels, the boss mobs and the action were simply awesome. I was blown away 
 by the demo and bought the full version. This game reminds me of Serious Sam on crack. The action 
 never stops and the weapons are great. Plus the kills are fantastic, from staking evil zombies 
 to shooting witch hags out of the sky. 
  
  The game certainly packs a good amount of action for the price you pay, but after you play it once 
 it wont be so much fun to go back again, simply because it can be repetitive. I have not purchased 
 the expansion yet. I have too many other games right now to worry about it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DougClayton4231
Rating: 1.9
Date: Jan 3, 2005 3:34 pm PT
Review:  I thought this game was absolutely retarded and broken because everything but the graphics is abysmal. 
 I mean the level design is terrible, the AI is pretty much nonexistant and the music they play 
 sounds like it was created on a Casio Keyboard. The only worthwhile thing about it is the Havok 
 physics engine. Complete Waste Of Time! I spent about 3 hours on it and I beat it (this was on nightmare 
 difficulty) . Go get FarCry or Doom 3 or Half-Life 2 or something good. I threw this game in the 
 trash! Luckily I only bought it for 8 dollars in a bargain bin! If you like mindless boring terrible 
 games than by all means buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: saintivan
Rating: 6.3
Date: Dec 29, 2004 10:13 pm PT
Review:  This game is really not fun. How sad. The graphics are pretty good, but not all that. The music 
 is irritating, and the grunting sound everytime you jump drives me crazy. Whoever invented the 
 idea of inserting a vexing grunt everytime you jump should be shot dead, but tortured slowly first.
 
  I am at the boss of the 1st level, so maybe this game gets better.... but I don't know if I will 
 ever find out. With games like Half Life 2 (infinitely better) , and Doom 3 (much better) , what 
 is the point of wasting time in this boring game? My advice is wait until this game is not a penny 
 over $19.99. Then if you are a fan of Serious Sam, get this game. Otherwise, pocket your $20 and 
 get something else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mattock5656
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 22, 2004 2:59 am PT
Review:  I picked this game up the other day, and I would have to say it was a good pickup.
  
  Painkiller is a Horror, spooky kind of game where your a person that is sent to hell to kill all 
 the demons , so you can see your wife again. "Your stuck between heaven and hell" Blah blah, it 
 says it all over the painkiller box.
  
  The game has the Havok engine in it, making it a cool ragdoll enviorment. You can move every object 
 in the game, making it very fun. Of course, with havok engine, the graphics will be good and they 
 are indeed good.
  
  The gameplay is pretty straightfoward, kill everything in your path. Stacking people to the wall 
 and shooting, watching their body parts go everywhere is a pretty cool sight. The gameplay can 
 get kinda repetive though, going room after room killing demons. They have a good variety of demons 
 ( 50 or so) to kill, which makes up for the repetiviness.
  
  I enjoyed this game very much. Anyone into shooters and has a good pc should give this game a try. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kanu25
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 20, 2004 12:12 pm PT
Review:  This is the 3rd FPP game of the year in my opinion (little worse than Far Cry and Half-Life 2) . 
 It has great graphics, good working Havok, awesome gameplay and sound. The maps are big, well constructed, 
 they keep a fantastic atmosphere (Go to the Opera or Asylum and you will see what I'm talkin' about) . 
 The monsters look great. Don't think about buying 2nd league FPP games, pick Painkiller, because 
 it's a great purchase. Tell me in which game (maybe except Half - Life 2) you have so good going 
 Havok system? Forget about D3 or D: Invisible War Painkiller is much much better. It's one of the 
 best games made in POLAND. Keep it going Adrian (Chmielarz) . POLSKA z Chmielarzem ma du 
 szans na sukces w brany gier komputerowych. This game Rocks! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dstark9
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 12, 2004 2:24 am PT
Review:  This game is probaly the most underated game I have played this year. It is very action packed 
 and in my opinion a very good storyline. There are over 25 levels in this game and each level is 
 surpisingly a good length. When I first played the demo I was really impressed with it and really 
 thought the first level was excellent and the second level was decently done. I was a little hesistant 
 to buy the game due to that fact actually... I really thought I had seen the best of the best... but 
 how wrong I was to even think that!!!! I must state that every level in my opinion was on par if 
 not alot better than the demo. There is a very good selection of weapons with secondary features 
 on every weapon. I was very pleased to see a huge selection of different types of enemies which 
 was amazing compared to all these overhyped games that did not even come close to this game. This 
 game really offers more gameplay, enemies, and weapons than any game on the market that I have 
 seen. Gameplay a well deserving 10.
  
  The Graphics were in my opinion up there with the best games out there... I would probaly rank this 
 #3 after FarCry and Doom3. I was mostly impressed with the artwork and different settings of levels. 
 Much more impressed than the overhyped Half-life2. The one level which impressed me more than any 
 level was the docks. A very stunningly graphicwise level. 
  
  The sound was decent in my opinion. The different arrays of sounds from each monster was very well 
 done. The weapons sounded realistic. There was some bugginess during cut scenes, but maybe on a 
 higher end computer that might not happen. My biggest complaint on the sound was the horrible battle 
 music. The heavy metal music really did not fit the feel of the game. I just turned that music 
 off and went on my merry way though. I would highly recommend turning the battle music off or atleast 
 on a very low sound. 
  
  The value is top notch.... I think I paid $29 for this game which is a huge bargain for everthing 
 that you get. A much better deal than per say Half-life or Doom. Well worth the money.
  
  Reviewers tilt.... I will play the game again because of the incentive to collect the tarot cards 
 from each level, also to see the alternate ending and to get to play the forest level.
  
  Cons for the game: I first played this game about 6 months ago and had alot of issues with the 
 game crashing even after calling for support. I just recently finished the game after downloading 
 all the latest patches. The battle music was a tad to much, but can be easily turned off. No stealth 
 involved. Its purely shoot em up game. Compares to Serious Sam. Even if you are not into shoot 
 em up games, this game is still worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SadExchange
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 1, 2004 7:58 pm PT
Review:  Released April 9th of 2004, a first person shooter, looking like the games of old, like Quake or 
 Doom touched down upon the shelves of game stores. The Developers known as "People Can Fly" (PCF) 
 brought into play what a lot of deathmatch fans have been waiting for.
  
  Painkiller is a simple game in itself. Kill everything that comes in front of you. Anything and 
 everything you see moving, shoot to kill. Why you ask? Because if you don't, it will waste no time 
 ripping you apart. Giving the player 5 weapons to choose from, with each weapon having 2 types 
 of functions, PCF wanted to focus on the functions of the weapons, more than the amount of weapons 
 and they definitely succeeded. While gracing through the five weapons, you'll find yourself upon 
 the Stake Gun, a gun that does what it sounds, shoots stakes at the enemy. The cool feature with 
 this is that it pierces the enemy and sticks its body to the wall, column behind it. You'll definitely 
 find yourself finding all the ammo you can for this weapon shooting everything around you just 
 to see bodies pinned to the wall.
  
  The story is simple, you're Daniel Garner, a man killed in a car crash along with his girlfriend, 
 but you are chosen to fight back the attack of demons and creatures from Hell and the only way 
 you can see your ladyfriend again is to complete this mission for the angels. So, through the five 
 levels that has about 4-5 stages within them, you'll go through different parts of purgatory and 
 Hell shooting every type of monster you can think of.
  
  You'll be accompanied along the way by Eve herself, only through cinematic movies between levels 
 and another high up angel on your crash course to defeat Satan himself.
  
  Graphics and physics go hand in hand with this title. PCF definitely spent their time getting in 
 done right. It's not the most beautiful game, graphically speaking, but you're in Hell, what do 
 you expect? Sanding beaches and jungle filled islands? Some other game What you will find is parts 
 of buildings that you will be able to shoot out such as: See a monster on top of a column and you 
 can't reach him with a simple grenade launcher, use that same grenade launcher to shoot out the 
 column and have the monster come to you.
  
  The A. I. for the game is like any other first person shooter, you see monsters, they see you, you 
 either shoot or run as far back as you can. And if you run out of ammo, take out the weapon known 
 as Painkiller, a swirling blade that you can shoot out to grapple enemies and tear through their 
 bodies as bloods spurts across the screen.
  
  A large part about this game would have to be the multiplayer types of deathmatch which there are 
 5 of ranging from the original deathmatch to "light bearer." The controls feel very smooth in this 
 game and to go along with the controls, while you're shooting shot after shot into the denizens 
 of Hell, you'll hear a great "rock" soundtrack to keep you going at the fast pace that the game 
 goes through.
  
  A cool feature in the game is the number of levels allowed to the player through different difficulties. 
 Starting out at normal, you'll get a set number of levels, but by raising the difficulties and 
 passing certain feats during the game, you'll unlock new levels in the game. And you ask what would 
 be a good reason to play this game over to open up these new levels? The BIG, in all sense of the 
 word, bosses. The game introduces Huge, enormous bosses that will tower 100 times your height in 
 the sky as you reel your mouse down to take in all their ugliness.
  
  Patches have been released to fix many bugs that shipped with the game, but this reviewer didn't 
 see too many glitches in the initial release version. And I recently heard that an expansion is 
 planned.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: underdark944
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 22, 2004 1:34 am PT
Review:  When all games want to have the greatest gameplay, PCF go back to the fundations and gives us some 
 solid action. In fact, Painkiller is only about blasting hordes of incoming monsters over and over 
 in wonderfully well designed levels. Even if it may seem pretty standard fare, it packs loads of 
 fun.
  
  Every level is unique and very interactive. The atmosphere is pretty good in most them. You'll 
 blast your way through asylums, arabic palaces, cemetaries, docks, castles, etc...
  
  But the gameplay has two special twists which are in fact very interesting. Every monsters let's 
 a soul on the ground. When you collect 66 of them, you get to morph into a demon. A very pretty 
 graphical effect will go letting you see all in grey and enemies in red. You can then kill on sight. 
 It adds a bit of strategy about managing when to morph so you can get the best kill count.
  
  In every level, you get a special objective to do likebeat the level using only the stake 
 gun ". If you do it successfully, you will get a black tarot card that gives a certain power when 
 activated once during a level. This can help you beat hard spots.
  
  Even if some may find that the game is repetitive and has no real gameplay, I say it's false. They're 
 is the two things I spoke to you about plus blasting these monsters is so fun especially because 
 of the weapons which are original and pack loads of fun.
  
  There are only 5 weapons in the game, but are not the least similar to each other plus they each 
 have 2 really different modes. An example, there is the shotgun/freezer, the ninja stars/electrifier, 
 the rocketlauncher/minigun, the stakegun/grenade launcher and the painkiller which the devastating 
 original gun. Each weapons is packed with power and is great for battling hordes of incoming monsters.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tysonius
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 28, 2006 11:03 am PT
Review:  I think of Painkiller as one of the two games that Doom 3 should have been (the other being Half 
 Life 2) . Great graphics (not up to Carmack's level, perhaps, but still look fine) , very fast gameplay, 
 great audio and really fun weapons. I tend to spend more time on RPGs and adventures than I do 
 FPSes, but every now and then I get the urge to pick up a chain gun and start harvesting the corpses! 
 And Painkiller not only lets me do that, it pushes me into it with a happy smile and a pat on the 
 back! I mean, who doesn't love virtually disintegrating mobs of monsters with explosive melee, 
 or blasting them 20 feet back with a shotgun, or pinning them to objects with the stake gun, or.. 
 or.. or.. you get my drift.
  
  Painkiller's a blast to play (no pun intended) , and while it may not win Game of the Year (I suppose 
 that will go to Half LIfe 2) , it's immensely fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zahpod42
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 13, 2004 8:14 pm PT
Review:  The first time I tried to sit down and play this game, there were several level-save/load bugs 
 that made me set this game aside in disgust for several months. Then, I was sitting around one 
 day and just thought, "I feel like shootin' stuff!! Lot's of stuff!!! CRAZY AMOUNTS of LOTS of 
 STUFF!!!" 
  
  So, I started playing again and finished it on the "Insomnia" (Normal) setting. Then I read about 
 an extra ending if you finished it on "Trauma" (Hardest) setting. Of course, to even unlock the 
 "Trauma" setting, you had to beat the game on the "Nightmare" setting. Also, you not only have 
 to finish each level, but to get the extra ending, you have to finish each level under a certain 
 set of parameters that are specific to each level, ie: don't use any armor, use only your stake 
 gun, find every secret, hold your breath and close one eye until end of level (jk on that last 
 one, but you will feel kind of like that by the time you are all done) . As for all the extra parameters: 
 Sometimes they seem very frustrating and unecessary, and at other times they challenge you and 
 make you want to see if you can succeed under their wacky conditions. I will tell you, that unless 
 you are somebody with endless patience and an infinite amount of time, that there is no way that 
 you will find all of the secret hiding places (and therefore the ability to watch the second ending) 
 without using a walk-through.
  
  All in all though, I played this game through three times, and it is unusual for me to complete 
 a game more than once (and never more than twice) . So, even though at times I wanted to rip my 
 mouse off of my desk and throw it through the window -- I did enjoy this game a lot, and I would 
 recommend it to people who like to shoot stuff, lots of ... well, you get the idea. If you like 
 games like Serious Sam, and the original Doom (s) , then you will probably like this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kmilo_rws
Rating: 8.2
Date: Oct 31, 2004 8:19 pm PT
Review:  Everyone knows that there are LOTS of first person shooters around by now. From incredible masterpieces 
 such as Far Cry, innovative games such as Deus Ex, to very buggy games like Nosferatu. Serious 
 Sam was very well-known for its very fast-paced action, very big and amazing levels and lots of 
 enemies at once coming right at you. Well, I say forget about that. Forget Serious Sam and its 
 coforful worlds...
  Welcome to hell.
  
  Painkiller is not your typical "find this item, activate this switch, destroy this, deactivate 
 that, kill the bad guy, rescue the other guy, end" FPS. Painkiller is basically "Run, jump, shoot, 
 shoot, shoot again, jump, run, and shoot again!" The storyline does not really play an important 
 paper in this kind of game. You are "hired" to kill four key generals of Lucifer, a holy war just 
 began when you died in a car crash. Even if the story progresses when you finish every chapter, 
 you really don't care about that. You just want more action!
  
  Gameplay is essentially "shoot everyone in sight". No puzzles or swithces or whatsoever. Even if 
 this can get repetitive at times, the action is veeeery fast-paced, even faster than Serious Sam.
 
  
  Paikiller's graphics are definitely top-notch. From the very detailed, big levels, to the hundred 
 enemies attacking at once, even the weapons are very unique. These are Painkiller's strongest point, 
 thats to the propietary PAIN engine. I really hope to see more games using this one.
  
  Sound is very good, especially the soundtrack. When enemies appear, the background music changes 
 to a indrustrial - heavy metal music, filling the game with adrenalin. Although the weapons' sounds 
 are weak.
  
  Some problems with Painkiller are its NASTY loading times, even when you're loading a saved game 
 of the same level you're already in. Hopefully there is already a patch at the time of writing 
 (v1.3.5) that fixes this. Also when you are jumping forward it seems that you're flying, but it's 
 very useful anyway, especially on the hardest levels.
  The physics engine (Havok) is very well integrated into the game. Watch as the enemies fly by because 
 of your shotgun!
  
  In a few words, Painkiller is lots of action, gorgeous graphics and Serious Sam's hellish wannabe. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aggie1295
Rating: 9.9
Date: Oct 15, 2004 5:49 am PT
Review:  Painkiller is like Serious Sam and the Doom 2 of old, fast paced, action packed and with lots of 
 adrenaline. It is one of those just plain fun and exciting first person shooters. It isn't revolutionary, 
 but the graphics are good, the sound and atmosphere is great and the action is non-stop. Some of 
 the secrets are a little frustrating, and the jumping could work better, but it is still a solid 
 game. It is one of those action-packed games that is good at helping you relax and let off some 
 steam. I really have enjoyed playing it and I'm looking forward to the expansion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DivineComedy
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 5, 2004 7:37 pm PT
Review:  The screens looked good prior the release but there were so many games with nice screens/videos 
 that turned out boring, that I didn't expect too much from this one, but I was hugely surprised 
 with its pure and old-school fun it delivers. From the very first cemetery level I was addicted. 
 The graphics are very nice and sharp and the atmosphere is what really enhaces this game to greatness 
 accompanied with the excellent level design. Lets just say that this game's level design and Doom 
 3's are worlds apart, not even comparable. The great sound completes the immerse atmosphere. 
 
  
  There aren't too many words to be said about the gamplay other than pure fun. It doesn't invent 
 or reinvent anything that wasn't done before but it makes it complete. I've never enjoyed a game 
 so much with so few weapons :) . The longetivity of the game is very satisfying and you will definitely 
 come back for more just becasue the greatness of the levels. 
  
  Until Rome :Total War came into the scene this year, Painkiller was my GOTY. It's better than Doom 
 3 in my opinion and even better then the other great FPS this year, Far Cry. Only HL2 can be in 
 its way of being my FPS GOTY for 2004. We'll see... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dr0wnage_PhD
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 2, 2004 3:32 pm PT
Review:  Painkiller brings back the old school run and gun style that was popular back in the days with 
 Quake, Doom, Doom 2 and Quake 2. It takes that forumula adds modern graphics, great physics, a 
 variety in levels and some new twists which all add up to a really fun FPS.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are some of the best in any FPS to date only topped by a few FPS's such 
 as Doom 3 and Far Cry. The weapon models are highly detailed as is the environments, shadows and 
 enemies. There are many different enemies and they all look really great. The different ways they 
 die also looks good. For example you can freeze enemies and then blow them up, the effect looks 
 great. All the death effects are done very well and combined with the physics makes the killing 
 a blast and looks really good.
  
  Sound: The sound effects for enemies is spooky and different for all the enemy monsters. The weapon 
 sound effects are very crisp and detailed, they are originally sounding and different for each 
 weapon and each weapons alternate fire mode. The music is hard rocking and fits well for an old 
 school style shooter.
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay is straightforward. You are in a place in between hell and earth and must 
 destroy the evil in order to go back to earth. Each level is very different from one another which 
 keeps the game interesting from the begining to the end. You get new weapons as you progress through 
 the game and they weapons are really fun to use. All of them are effective and have different styles 
 to them. There is a stake gun which really displays how good the physics are in the game. You can 
 pin an enemy against the wall with the stake gun. There is a shotgun that has a freeze ray for 
 its alternate fire so you can freeze and enemy then break him apart with the shotgun. There is 
 an electric gun and one that shots little razor blades that are like chinese stars. The bosses 
 in the game are huge some of them are the size of skyscrappers. Some of the bosses can be fairly 
 challenging. Each level also has goals for you to complete and if you do you get cards. These cards 
 can be used for special powers. You also collect souls of the monsters you kill and when you collect 
 a certain amount you go into this sort of rage mode where you are invincible and can just slaughter 
 all the enemies around you, everything turns black and white with a blur effect, it is very cool. 
 The story isnt the greatest in the world just enough to give you a reason for slaughtering all 
 these demons. And the final boss is something to behold.
  
  Painkiller is reccommended for any FPS fan and especially for any old school FPS fan. It takes 
 the old Quake formula and freshens it up with a modern coat. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MasterMarcus
Rating: 8.1
Date: Sep 12, 2004 8:12 pm PT
Review:  Painkiller is a good surprise hit that come from nowhere, a carnage shooter that should satisfy 
 every action adrenaline addict for a while - a little while that is, since it has a mediocre lasting 
 appeal after you beat it once or twice. Why? Well, the gameplay is good, in fact nearly great but 
 ironically redundant at the same time, if not boring. Once having played the whole campaign, it's 
 easy to notice how the levels are beautifully designed and varied. However their potential are 
 not fully exploited because of the pretty standard layout throughout the game: a succession of 
 conventional and straight hallways & halls, despite the good variation of their design, rendering 
 the full experience tedious in time. The lack of interconnectivity between the missions is also 
 hampering the story integration, that's a major flaw especially when comparing to Doom III's excellent 
 level connection.
  
  The game has its glory moments though, namely the huge boss battles - and they're well done. So 
 well done that they outshine by far Doom III's ones and the competition in this matter, a main 
 reason why gamers having missed this one should still try it even after Doom III's arrival. Experiencing 
 the Blob Boss, and the 4th one- Alastor is SOMETHING. Boss battles may be an ''out feature'' these 
 years, and I'm never a big fan of puzzle bosses by the way, but playing the Painkiller ones is 
 an engrossing experience. Good flashy DirectX 9 features help, some flashy water effects and particles 
 well put together. The gibs physics is still the best in the business by the time of this review. 
 
  
  If only they've included the Castle level in the demo, oh I do loved the starting sequence when 
 the dogs attack, AND a better ending, Painkiller may have attracted more people. Many hardcore 
 fans prefer it to Doom III, that's something, but in the end the less atmospheric gameplay and 
 level integration render it just a bit under the latter in my opinion. Still a must play for the 
 genre and a surprise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheWildthang
Rating: 8.6
Date: Sep 4, 2004 12:08 pm PT
Review:  The background story.. not important. All you need to know is you are trapped in Hell and the only 
 thing that can redeem you is by turning everything in your path into a red puddle of goo.
  
  Painkiller is a full on, all out, balls to the wall FPS where stealth and strategy is for big 
 girls who wear lots of makeup. Enemies have no sense of self preservation, they charge at you in 
 groups all eager to tear something off your body.. and perferably something you are fond of. But 
 fear not! For you are armed with an array of death dealing weapons. Admittidly there are not a 
 lot of weapons to play with, but all have two fire modes and they serve their purpose well.
  
  The 'monsters' are really well designed and all have their own particular attacks. In fact, 
 as you progress through the game you'll meet a new set of baddies every time (nicely matched to 
 the theme of the level) . They range from general cannon fodder which attack in large groups to 
 double hard "I'm going to rip your head off and make balloon animals with your internal organs" 
 demons. 
  
  At the end of every level you are greeted with an end of level boss. Serious sam had some pretty 
 big bosses but I think these guys are even larger again. Just like a good old fashioned console 
 game, each one has a weakness which you need to find and exploit to kill it.
  
  Painkiller fills me with the kind of joy I used to get when playing Doom. It's uncomplicated, straight 
 forward enjoyment of you vs several hundred enemies. Outmanned, outgunned but damn it all you're 
 not going down without a damned good fight.
  
  Many will say it's the same level after level, but in my very humble opinion it's just a return 
 the very basics of the FPS which does away with all the fancy bells and whistles of interactive 
 story and just focuses on you rampaging your way through the game.
  
  Graphically, it's an impressive experience. Even on the most humble of PC's, you should find this 
 runs nice and smooth. Surprisingly, even when your screen is filled with hordwes of bad guys (and 
 it will be!) the action never drops to jerk-o-vision. The level desgins are very varied and the 
 architecture on some of the buldings are a joy to behold. Textures everywhere are very detailed, 
 crisp and clear - even in places where they could've cut corners and not bothered (like ceilings) .
 
  
  As you can tell, I'm pretty smitten with Painkiller. For me it's a true successor to the spirit 
 of Doom (rather than Doom3 which I find takes itself a bit too seriously and feels more like a 
 Nvidia tech demo than an actual game) . If you are like me and you have a short attention span which 
 needs to be filled with as much action as possible - choose Painkiller! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Terdog
Rating: 8.7
Date: Sep 3, 2004 7:58 am PT
Review:  Painkiller comes across as another average FPS, but its not and here's why.
  
  The graphics are outstanding in my opinion, large detailed enviroments that look great, even on 
 PC's that only meet the minimum requiruments to run the game. Dreamcatcher also made a smart move 
 when they decided to use the Havok physics engine. When you kill someone, you know it, as they 
 dont just go down in a heap. Bodies fly all over the place as you kill them.
  
  As for the weapons, Painkiller has some of the best weapons I have ever seen in a FPS, and thats 
 saying alot, as I thought I had seen it all. The chaingun/rocket launcher has to be the most useful 
 & powerful weapon I have seen in an FPS. The shotgun has a nice freeze attachment to it, but my 
 personal favroite it the nail gun/grenade launcher.
  
  As for the action, its old school, like Doom, but with a twist, if you complete certain objectives 
 in each level, you can unlock cards that will help you beat the game. Oh and the bosses are HUGE, 
 with enough fairness in them so that you are not throwing the mouse across the room.
  
  In closing, its nice change from all the slow/teambased games, and if you liked Serious Sam, you 
 will like Painkiller
  
  P. S. This is what Doom 3 should have been.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MambaJack
Rating: 9.8
Date: Aug 27, 2004 5:22 pm PT
Review:  This games is simply fun. It's not dumb but it veers away from the recent trend in first person 
 shooters by eschewing complex controls, stealth and in game objectives and instead has one simple 
 premise. if it moves, shoot it.
  
  That sounds simplistic but the game handles the premise so very well that instead it basically 
 distills everything down to pure fun.
  
  The storyline is simple but effective: You are Daniel Garner, who died in a car accident while 
 taking his girlfriend out for her birthday. Trapped in a place between Heaven and Hell, you struggle 
 to uncover the reasons why you are denied entry into Heaven, the only place where you will see 
 your loved one again. Sent on a mission to assassinate four of Satan's men, you become Heaven's 
 hitman. I can do that.
  
  What unfolds is rather majestic in its scope and execution. The game just looks fabulous and with 
 the Havok engine, the environment opponents' bodies fly back, twisting and turning as you shoot 
 them, realistically smashing into doors and other objects. There were times when I had finished 
 off the enemies in some areas when I would just walk around shooting things to watch the effects, 
 its that impressive. And when youre blasting enemies, therell be times when you just stop to 
 watch your assailant soar through the air before continuing to the next one. The weapon sounds 
 sound great so you can almost feel the impact of your weapons. 
  
  What really impressed me was the level design. Weve all seen the endless corridors and rather 
 staid levels in many FPS games but Painkiller takes level design to a new level, no pun intended. 
 Theres such a bizarre variety of levels, from Insane Asylums to an Opera House to an Abandoned 
 Military Base to an Old Refinery to. you get the idea. Its creative and feels right in this game.
 
  
  And speaking of levels, the end game level in Hell has to be seen to be believed. The designer 
 put together a level that in my humble opinion would be worthy of a cinematic treatment. Its a 
 great interpretation of what hell could be, based on the way humans have lived much of their lives.
 
  
  So, get this one and as long as you arent in need of the realistic tactical shooter type game, 
 youll have a blast. I know I did.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: farid2001
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 24, 2004 1:56 am PT
Review:  I got this game and I thought it's going to be another boring FPS.. Not it happened to be one of 
 the most addictive one.. Graphics are surprisingly fabulous and the sound is just highly created. Gameply 
 is simple but effective and the learning curve is not that much of a hassle. The difficulty level 
 is just Right but gets hard sometimes depends on what you set your level on. The game demands a 
 almost high system requirment but if you have 9600Pro or 5700Ultra with a over 2GHZ CPU and 512 
 of RAM then Go ahead and enjoy the Game. If you're FPS fan and love to have a great collection of 
 masterpieces, this Game is Must-Have.
  LateZ
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CGS-Sledge
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 30, 2004 1:05 pm PT
Review:  This is a great FPS game and should be loved by all FPS fans. The only thing to keep in mind is 
 the puzzles. If you are not a jumping fan then you might not like this game as well as other you 
 have played. Almost all of the puzzles are jumping puzzles from ledge to ledge and so on. For most 
 this is a welcome change that brakes up the run and gun theme that most FPS type games have. The 
 graphics are pretty nice and the levels are laid out well. If you do not like games that make you 
 fight a boss of some short after each level you may not like this game for that reason. Other than 
 that the sounds are top notch and game play as a whole is very good.
  
  There is one thing I will say about the demo. I tried the demo before I got the game and did not 
 like it very much at all. This is one time for me that the demo did not reflect the end result 
 of the game. So you may want to try the demo first but keep in mind that the game is much better 
 than the demo lets on. Enjoy!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: no1alboogie
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 8, 2004 10:53 pm PT
Review:  You like action, You'll love Painkiller.
  I've been falling behind on some of my reveiws, sorry, but I'm back to try and set some records 
 straight.
  I've read some reveiws that don't give this game its justice. First of all it's aAction, First-Person 
 Shooter", You're supposed to run around and shoot things and blow stuff up, this game gives you 
 all that plus more.
  The graffics are awsome, you can't get bored with the environments, the details are way above average. The 
 sound is great too, cool soundtrack, probably won't get any awards, but cool. The A. I. isn't much, 
 but it reallydoesn't have to be, if you're there and demons are there, they're going to try and 
 kill you, you try and not let that happen, and take them out. The game does have a story to it, not 
 a bad one, but again probably no awards yet.
  My bottem line, without getting too carried away, the gameplay is great, it looks great, and for 
 a fast pacedFirst-Person Shooter" ( kinda along the lines of Halo ) , I would recommend this game 
 to anyone.
  Happy Hunting
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gandalflotrtt
Rating: 4.7
Date: Jun 29, 2004 2:18 pm PT
Review:  Here's the setup i played this game on
  
  MSI K7N2G-L nForce 2 IGP mobo
  AMD Athlon XP 2400+ @ 2.0GHz
  1024mb Dual Channel PC2700 DDR
  120gb Western Digital Caviar
 
  BFG Asylum GeForce FX 5950 Ultra 256mb @ 550MHz core 1GHz Effective Mem
  Sound Blaster Audigy 2 ZS
  Creative Inspire T5400 Dolby 5.1
  
  While the sound and graphics 
 are pretty good, the games overplay is basically the same throughout the whole game. All you do 
 is go around killing monsters, basically the same ones over and over again. The first weapon you 
 get, is the best weapon out of the first 3 you obtain. The shotgun, is terrible, you die by the 
 time you go to reload and shoot the monster. It's not enjoyable and i didn't even bother finishing 
 the game because it was the same stuff over and over again, did not feel like wasting my time. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctor_kaz
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 7, 2004 5:41 am PT
Review:  I almost think of Painkiller like two games. One of them is pure, addictive, incredible-looking, 
 adrenaline-pumping action Nirvana. The other is a dull and sometimes frustrating game when Painkiller 
 deviates from its formula by trying to give you something besides mindless action. Thankfully, 
 the former is what you get to play most of the time, which is why Painkiller is such a great game.
 
  
  When Painkiller is on, it is really on. This game does "mindless action" as well as any game has 
 ever done. Picture yourself running around the edges of a room, never standing still, shooting 
 at stuff like there's no tomorrow, trying to gun down and blow up dozens of enemies while dodging 
 their punches, axes, swords, and bullets. A wide variety of enemies exists for you to blast into 
 bloody chunks or stick to walls with your stake gun. The generally have simple behaviors. They 
 rush at you, shoot stuff at you, or shoot stuff and then rush at you. There is just enough variety 
 in the enemies though to keep you on your toes and force you to use all of the game's 5 well-balanced 
 weapons. There are enemies that poison you, enemies that slow you down, enemies that take 3 shotgun 
 blasts to kill, enemies that zig-zag when they rush at you, etc. You will quickly learn the hotkeys 
 and alt-fire modes for your weapons and switch back and forth, based upon what situation you are 
 facing at any one second. 
  
  The game only has five weapons, but don't be deceived into thinking that this is some kind of shortcoming. 
 They are all really cool and useful, and each has a meaningful and useful alt-fire mode. Thus, 
 the game effectively has ten weapons, all of which you will use frequently throughout the game. 
 The game's namesake weapon, The Painkiller, is like a chainsaw on crack. The shotgun has an alt-fire 
 mode that freezes enemies in their tracks so that you can blast them to bits with one blast. The 
 stake gun is a powerful weapon that showcases the game's rag-doll physics by letting you impale 
 baddies onto walls. The fourth weapon is a powerful chain gun/rocket launcher combo, and the fifth 
 weapon can create a miniature electric storm that fries anyone who comes near it.
  
  A couple of minor upgrades in this game make it slightly different from other run-and-gun shooters. 
 The most notable is the collection of souls, which come from the bodies of your fallen enemies. 
 The souls only stay on the screen for a short time, so you have to run and collect them. When you 
 collect 66 souls, you morph into an indestructible demon for a short time. Thus, the game actually 
 rewards you for not running backwards all day. Another feature of this game is the tarot card system. 
 Tarot cards are basically power-ups that you can use once per level, and that you unlock by accomplishing 
 certain tasks (like finishing a level using only one weapon) .
  
  The graphics for this game are gorgeous, and they exist across a wide variety of scenery and environments. 
 Everyone one of the game's 24 locations looks different. All of the scenery is inspired and creative. 
 Painkiller shows an astonishing level of polish and attention to detail that I don't think I have 
 ever seen in a first person shooter. One little example of this is in the game's fantastic Opera 
 House level. All over the Opera House, there are at least a couple dozen paintings on the walls. 
 And all of those paintings are highly detailed and unique. None of them repeat. This is different 
 from most games, where scenery such as this repeats the same five or six items. As I said, this 
 is a minor detail, but it is one of many, many little things that prove that an enormous effort 
 went into this game. 
  
  The game's audio is also impressive. Most of it is consistent with the bizarre afterlife setting 
 that the game tries to convey. In most areas you can hear low-pitched moans, whispers, creaks, 
 etc. The exception might be the game's heavy metal action soundtrack, which isn't bad, but seems 
 a bit out of place.
  
  That's the great part. Then there's the "other" gamethe one where Painkiller tries to do other 
 stuff, like forcing you to break open a hundred containers on every level looking for gold. Yes, 
 that's right. The game is like Diablo when it comes to breaking open boxes and chests to find treasure. 
 You have to do it, because you need gold to use your Tarot cards. This stuff isn't much fun in 
 RPG's, so it is TOTALLY out of place here. To make matters worse, a lot of the gold and ammo are 
 hidden in secret areas. These areas are insanely hard to find, and just as hard to get to once 
 you do find them. I was able to find over 50% of the secrets in Serious Sam, but I couldn't find 
 10% of the secrets in Painkiller without help from the message boards. You could spend 2 hours 
 searching a level for the secrets and only find 2 out of 4 of them. Occasionally, the levels are 
 set up in a way that makes it hard to find an exit. Once again, this is when the game is NOT fun. 
 Painkiller would have been better without the material that disrupts the fast-paced action. 
  
  The end boss for this game was a huge letdown. I spent a frustrating hour trying to figure 
 out what "magic trick" I needed to beat him. Then I went to the message boards, found out the "trick", 
 and beat him in about 2 minutes. 
  
  Painkiller takes the old Quake and Serious Sam formula to a new level. While doing so, it also 
 provides an experience that is different from those games, and in some ways, better. If you enjoy 
 defeating swarms of enemies in fast-paced shooters, then you can't go wrong with Painkiller. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NeoJedi
Rating: 6.8
Date: May 4, 2004 5:05 pm PT
Review:  People may say that my score is unfair, that this game deserves better.
  Well, in my opinion, it doesn't.
  
  Here's my review, broken down like an' old record :
  
 
  Gameplay (7.0) : The gameplay is pretty simple, like any regular shooter.
  There are no tricks here, no special moves, no nothing.
  
  Graphics (9.0) : Have to admit that 
 the graphics are very nice in this game, very fluid.
  The new graphics engine used for this game is truly awesome.
  
  Sound (9.0) : Sound is good, 
 the music puts you in the mood of a horror filled environment.
  The screams and sounds that come from the monsters are good too.
  
  Value (4.0) : The game 
 is very good for the 1st hour, good for the 2nd, and goes downhill from there.
  There is no real story in this game, no "meat"... only blood and gore.
  I got bored really quick 
 of this game and went back to playing UT2004.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt (6.0) : Good game for the first hour or two, but gets very repetitive after that.
 
  I am used to good shooters, like Max Payne 2, with a great background story.
  Although this game has some sort of story, it just doesn't do it for me.
  
  So, there you have 
 it.
  It's a beefed up Doom, nothing more.
  I know some of you will love just running around and shooting stuff, but that just doesn't do it 
 anymore for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FuriousGeorge
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 23, 2004 7:34 pm PT
Review:  The game is exactly as advertised: a run and gun first person shooter. How boring, right? This 
 takes me back to the day DOOM came out. Sure it is "old school": it does not have team mates or 
 vehicles or an immersive story-line, but this game is a blast. The graphics and environment, in 
 my opinion, compensate for what this game lacks. No crouching, no stealth, but it is just plain 
 fun. The quality of production is rock solid. It is so well done, I do not even mind that the narrative 
 is "implied". There are "a lot" of games that try to work in all the latest tricks, techniques 
 and expectations as game developers "up the ante" that go over budget, get cut, edited, recoded 
 and shipped out just because publishers want the project out of their hair. This game keeps it 
 simple and it really works.
  
  The variety of weapons and the havoc physics engine work very well. And for what the mulitplayer 
 lacks in sheer volume, it makes up for in challenge. Try lobbing slow moving wooden stakes at one 
 another. It is "really" refreshing to see Multiplayer without superweapons ( which do help if you 
 ping is high ) . I use a wireless LAN so my ping is high, and this is one game where your ping "will" 
 make a difference. It beats the infuriating lack of skill and subtlety of the auspicious frag grenade. 
 I think for this reason the multiplayer is more redeeming than some give it credit for. Hopefully, 
 DreamCatcher or someone will complement the package with new maps in the future. In its own right, 
 PainKiller deserves to stand beside the great recent releases. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: furrier
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 22, 2004 7:56 am PT
Review:  Some of the reviews I've read on here seem to dislike the game because it doesn't have much depth 
 and degrades into raw shooting with not much strategy.
  
  Well that's the whole point! Quake was the exact same type of game, and over the years, game developers 
 seem to have gotten the idea that strategy and depth are what everyone desires. For some that is 
 the case, but I miss the games like Serious Sam and Quake that had one purpose - move and shoot.
 
  
  This is more of an arcade game, with great graphics and sound, and it does its job very well. Dont 
 except to be buying Far Cry here - this is not a stealth or strategy game. But if you love mindless 
 shooting and fast gameplay, then you have found your dream game!
  
  I only have two complaints. 
  
  One is the constant battle music, which is hardcode rock music 
 whenever a battle is occuring. If you dont like it, though, its easy to turn off permanently.
 
  
  The second is that the game doesnt have profiles, and doesnt save your games into your Windows 
 XP "my documents" folder, so there is no way for two people to play Painkiller and keep their save-games 
 separate from one another.
  
  A definite must have.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BrGabriel
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 16, 2004 11:52 pm PT
Review:  On the whole an OK game - but certainly not a great one. Looks nice, sound effects are atmospheric, 
 lots of action. But it really does just feel like a prettier version of Doom or Quake. The adrenal 
 fun of running round shooting things just wears off far more quickly nowadays than when the latter 
 classics came out. It simply isn't original enough - which is a shame because the basic "plot" 
 premise is quite clever and a lot more could have been done with it. And before everyone says "but 
 its a FPS of course its about running around shooting" I would say of course there needs to be 
 loads of action - but haven't we all moved on from just run and gun and nothing else? A bit more 
 depth could have gone a long way towards making this a really good game, instead of rather average. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blue_Tomato
Rating: 5.8
Date: Apr 16, 2004 12:54 pm PT
Review:  The game is very good at what it does but, if you ask me, what it does is simply not enough... 
 Shoot a million badguys, go to next level, repeat etc... 
  
  I have played pinball games with more depth than this. 
  
  A game for relaxing the mind? Well, 
 amusing at first, but then quickly dries out... I got this game as I thought it would be a fun 
 change among a ton of more "serious" shooters, but I found it dissapointing, shallow, linear, repetetive 
 and simply boring. I lost the motivation to play 1/4 through the game, and I will probably never 
 take it out again... 
  
  Painkiller is extremely polished with great effects and physics, but it is a bit like adding realistic 
 shadows and excellent coloring to a drawing found on the wall of a public toilet.
  
  Check out the demo to see if this is your kind of game, but keep in mind that even if you love 
 chocolate you will get sick if you are stuffed with it continuously with no change at all, which 
 is a bit like I feel with this game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Field83
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 14, 2004 1:25 pm PT
Review:  Well, back to basic alright, and with a big bang! I had almost forgot all the fun with an "basic" 
 FPS. I'd say to play this game now after been playing Far cry is like coming home from a hard days 
 work and having some fun with the guys.. Don't get me wrong, Far cry is an excellent game but requires 
 much more emphasis on tactics and sneaking, in Painkiller you just load up and blast away. 
  Since it also has a great variety it never suffers from the problem many similar FPS has, which 
 is that they tend to get boring after a while.. same bad guys, same kind of level textures and so 
 forth..
  
  Grafics and sound are great, while maybe not on par with Far cry or UT 2004 it has its own gory 
 style, and again the variety of locations nad opponents are excellent!
  
  Rock stable gory horror action, what more is there really to whish for? Enjoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: russlc
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 12, 2004 1:57 pm PT
Review:  This game is just pure entertainment and a heck of a lot of fun. The developers should be commended 
 for this title and how good it feels to play a game like this. The graphics are absolutely stellar 
 (on my ATI 9800) and runs like an absolute champion with everything cranked up. The music is great 
 too and sets the perfect mood for killing things. The physics engine is unbelievable to and to 
 watch some of the effects the stake gun produced had my jaw on the floor. The animations of the 
 enemies are something I have never seen before. From the small, to the medium, to the HUUUUUGE 
 boss monsters  everything is great to watch. They definitely raised the bar with this one.
  
  Alias, Painkiller isnt perfect. It is rather easy and it does seem it will be quick to complete. 
 Very similar to Serious Sam was. I have it on the toughest setting and I am surviving pretty easily. 
 The boss monsters are rather tough though. Also, the smaller monsters dont have many tactics, 
 so dont expect some incredible AI like Far Cry. However, I have only gotten one tarot card and 
 I will definitely slow down to unlock some of the better powers. Havent tried multiplayer just 
 yet. It also didnt work the first time because of the cd-rom bug so I had to re-install using 
 a different cd-rom drive. Bummer but it will be patched.
  
  All in all, it is absolutely worth your well earned $39.95. Heck, any game that could tare me away 
 from my beloved UT2004 for any length of time deserves some attention.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dryden555
Rating: 7.3
Date: Apr 11, 2004 4:05 pm PT
Review:  Painkiller has some virtues: it has nice graphics that will run on a slower P4 computer. The weapons 
 are inventive and the environments are fairly diverse. 
  
  But it is basically a smartly-made Doom clone with spiffed-up graphics. The graphics deserve special 
 mention -- there is some truly great and inventive art-design to look at.
  
  Far Cry (single-player) has great enemy AI and a long campaign filled with amazingly-designed huge 
 levels. For single-player, Far Cry blows Painkiller out of the water.
  
  Neither of these games will win awards for originality, but it is difficult to get excited about 
 the gameplay in Painkiller when it has already been done many times before, most recently in 2 
 versions of Serious Sam. 
  
  The folks who made Painkiller made a pretty good game here and I'll be waiting to see what they 
 come out with next. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: perquak
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 11, 2004 3:15 am PT
Review:  This game is awesome - a Perfect 10. I'm not going to repeat what others have already posted, so 
 here are some additional comments and tips. The game has many, many features that have not been 
 previously used in other games, so read the manual. Read about the souls, the Black Tarot cards, 
 the coins and the scoreboard. I feverishly zipped through the first level without paying any attention 
 to the above and missed most of the good stuff. I'm playing it again to pickup everything that 
 I missed the first time through. The enemies attack in droves, then you are free to explore the 
 visually great sublevel between checkpoints. You'll know that the wave is over when the battle 
 music stops.
  
  My two year old system is not state-of-the-art (see below) , but the game plays without a hickup 
 at a 1600x1200 resolution with all details maxed out. However, it fully uses 750 megs of ram.
 
  
  Falcon NW Computer - Circa 12/01
  Athlon XP 1900+ with 1GB DDR PC2100 CL2.0 Ram
  Audigy 1 Soundcard
  ATI Radeon 9800 Pro w/256MB
  ATI Display Driver Version 4.4
  Windows 
 XP Home SP 1
  
  If you are looking for one hell of a good time, stop reading and go out and buy this game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: PainInnfliction
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 10, 2004 6:28 pm PT
Review:  Painkiller... well what can i say about Painkiller that no one else has already stated. Well, I 
 guess i will use one of my quotes related to this game. "Oh my God, is that the boss?? Ahhh... I'm 
 already dead!" Let's get started. Gameplay, with 5 weapons and two firing modes for each, and over 
 18 enemies to mess up, the gameplay gets a definite 10. Next, the graphics are insane! The best 
 part of the game when killing enemies is plastering them against the wall with the stake gun, the 
 rag doll physics don't disappoint. The sound plays a great part as well, during parts of the game 
 when action dies down you can actually here whispers talking to you and scaring the #@!$ out of 
 you as you look every where for the voices. Value is pretty much the same as gameplay. So now here's 
 my question... What the heck are you doing reading this review, get off your computer, start your 
 car, drive to your nearest game store, even better order off of Gamespot (wink*wink) and instal 
 Painkiller. Once you start playing, you will enter a world of gory pleasure. I give Painkiller 
 an excellent 9.3. Thanks for reading, peace out! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sadiara
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 9, 2004 4:29 pm PT
Review:  This game is just amazing. Dreamcatcher and People can fly did an amazing job on this game. Its 
 hard to tell how they did it so good |:-D, the graphics are amazing and it will push your system 
 to its limits depending on what you have. The game doesnt lag at 1024x768 all on high shadows 
 off with a system like this, P4 2GHz, 512ram, radeon 9200. The game is worth every penny you spend. 
 The single player and multiplayer will keep you entertained for a long, long time. I hope they 
 will make a sequel to such a amazing game like this. I love it and I hope that you guys will too. 
 You must check this game out 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
