-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Panzer General II
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/panzergeneral2/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 14, 1997
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.3
Critic Score: 8.3, 1 Review (s)
User Score: 8.7, 254 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: SSI
Developer: Glen Summers
Genre: Strategy
Date:     Sep 30, 1997

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
There is obviously a great bubbling need for a quick-playing, accessible, slick, historical wargame 
 - and Panzer General II more than fits the bill. 

 Panzer General revealed a heretofore unknown desire for the average American male to invade Poland 
 and control Western Europe. It's not that this desire was wholly a surprise (many men like wargames 
 and war gear) : It was the staggering scope of its appeal. PG sold several hundred thousand copies, 
 with surprising sales to the console market. Apparently, those armchair generals didn't get enough, 
 because the sequel, Panzer General II, has gone through its initial printing of 100,000 in about 
 a week and returned to remaster. There is obviously a great bubbling need for a quick-playing, 
 accessible, slick, historical wargame - and PG2 more than fits the bill.  

 Panzer General II is the first major upgrade to the Five Star system that carried SSI though five 
 major games. The title of this new series is Living Battlefield, and with some refinements it should 
 enjoy a run comparable to the first. Apart from some minor exceptions, the engine has been improved 
 for the better, adding greater depth without sacrificing the compulsive playability of the initial 
 design. This is neither the same old PG with a facelift, nor a whole new game - it's an enhancement 
 and expansion of the concepts of the original. Panzer General II is a strategic level, turn-based 
 wargame based upon the European theater of World War II. The scenarios and campaigns embrace the 
 entire epic sweep of the period, ranging from the "dress rehearsal" of the Spanish Civil War to 
 hypothetical invasions of England, Tennessee, and Georgia (!) . Over the course of some 40 battles, 
 the armies of America, Britain, Russia, Germany, and the minor nations range from the huge battlefields 
 of the Russian front, to the frozen landscapes of Norway and Finland, to Western Europe, Italy, 
 and beyond. What distinctly stand out about PG2 are the 30 hand-painted maps. Large, detailed, 
 and evocative, they are works of art that function as the perfect backdrop to the dramatic events 
 unfolding upon them. While the detail of the maps is unquestionably a strength of PG2, it comes 
 at a cost. The units that represent your forces sometimes get lost in all that detail. It's not 
 true 3D, but the tanks, planes, ships, and infantry are depicted from different angles so that 
 they turn facing for movement and attack. They are quite nicely rendered, but more than once I 
 lost an artillery piece among the buildings of a town, or a plane that was flying over another 
 unit. That's the trade-off for the high resolution (and it's really a moot point since you can 
 scroll through units using the "N" key) , but it's somewhat of a nuisance. As for the interface, 
 it is both improved and unimproved. The game can be played full screen, with hot keys only, or 
 using the traditional framework. Frankly, I preferred the burnished bronze of the original to the 
 dull, gun-metal gray of this one. The interface also puts less information on the screen. Where 
 you used to be able to get all relevant info about units on the info bar, now you only get unit 
 ID, entrenchment, and hex number. The detailed information is accessed by right mouse-click, which 
 puts necessary data right at your fingertips, but I miss having it on the screen. But there's no 
 denying how well the interface works. Units are moved by simple point and click. New rules, inherited 
 from Pacific General, allow you to move multiple units, then fire. This leads to an important change 
 in PG2. You now get an attack bonus from having more than one unit adjoining the defender. You 
 still can't attack with multiple units at once, which is something the system needs, but it does 
 add a touch of realism to tactics. Other rule changes increase realism as well. Some units now 
 have greater ranged fire, units have initiative ratings to determine who fires first, and an improved 
 auto-fire routine allows qualifying units to provide support for defenders. For instance, if a 
 defender is attacked, any defending artillery in range will add their fire to the defense. Artillery 
 is therefore much more important to gameplay. The last major gameplay change is the addition of 
 complex leaders that experienced units may earn. Veteran units get a leader who adds two skills: 
 one related to class, the other one random. One of my ace pilots attacks twice per turn, for instance, 
 while a tank commander always attacks first. Tenacious defense, interceptor, liberator, first strike, 
 and extended front are among the skills a leader may bring to his unit. (Check the GUI97. TXT file 
 for a list of skills.) Nurturing these core units through a campaign and using them wisely adds 
 greatly to the role-playing element of PG2, and is a great addition. While there are about 30 stand-alone 
 scenarios in PG2, all of them interesting and challenging, the heart of the game is the five campaigns. 
 In campaigns, you strive for the best possible victory (brilliant, regular, and tactical are the 
 three levels) to accrue prestige points, which are used to buy more units. By carrying a core army 
 group through a dozen battles, you build their strength and their skill as a fighting force. Some 
 campaigns branch briefly depending upon victory level (Thermopylae is one booby prize for the "tactical 
 victor") , but you need to win each scenario to continue a campaign. The five campaigns are the 
 full German blitz, American and British invasions of Europe, German strategic defensive, and Russian 
 offensive. Each has a good variety of national equipment and slick introductions. Rounding out 
 an already fulsome package is multiplay and a scenario editor. Multiplay can be co-op or conventional, 
 and SSI is setting up Club SSI as a meeting room. If your tastes run to "what ifs," you can use 
 the editor to place units on the maps (sorry, no map editor) and create custom scenarios. Panzer 
 General II is a rich and rewarding package for grognard and novice wargamer alike. Its quick and 
 easy play may not appeal to the historical or wargaming purist, but there is absolutely no question 
 about the fun factor.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (4 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: ericpolvo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 10, 2009 6:17 pm PT
Review:  I recent discovered the Tools at Luis Guzman's site.
  http:/ /luis-guzman. com /index. html. After installing and patching the game, I was pleasantly surprised 
 at how fun it is to play. I had not loaded Panzer General 2 since pre-XP days so it had been a 
 few years since I had played. If you still have the original disk you too might be pleasantly surprised.
 
  
  There is a Tut at: http://www. wegame. com /watch/Panzer_General_2_install _and_Patch_for_Vista/ the 
 SMACK files might work for you.
  
  There are many enjoyable hours to be had if you like the turn based model. The AI is good and the 
 scenarios are intresting as well as a good geography and history lessons. The hand painted maps 
 are quite a contrast to later games and some might consider them better than today's. SSI did quite 
 a good job back int the day.
  
  The People's General games are available as abandonware and who could argue with the value of that! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chookshagger
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 15, 2008 1:07 am PT
Review:  This is a true addictive classic.
  I have been a hard core Gamer since 1995. Out of the forty odd games I have played in depth this 
 is my favorite!
  
  The campaign is a delight if played on the highest difficulty.
  
  The first impressions are - what is this awful map?
  Then you realise that you have to make some 
 decision's on what you spend your "prestige" on and that the map is artwork - you start to pay 
 attention.
  
  As you take the same force through each of the 20 odd missions - you both want them to survive 
 and fight to gain XP.
  
  What is special is you cannot afford a bad game in the campaign as this may affect you at a later 
 date. ie a poor choice of purchase may mean down the track that you simply cannot win with gear 
 you have - no matter how much XP it has.
  
  The great online community give this game great deapth with maps and some excellant campaigns.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dshaw62197
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 11, 2008 10:31 pm PT
Review:  While I consider the original Panzer General to be the best game of SSI's "Five-Star General" series, 
 PG II comes within a hair of matching its parent game for its ease of play and gaming value. It 
 upgrades the look of the original game (a three-dimensional appearance that works better here than 
 it would in the next line of PGs) , while adding several excellent features that enhance the game's 
 replayablity and realism. For example, units may now move and then attack later; the scale of units 
 is more consistant; and the game offers the ability to play from several sides (German, Russian, 
 UK and American) in one game. PG II continues the line's tradition of offering an accesible, yet 
 immersive wargame that appeals to a wide audience. This game is a must-have for anyone who enjoyed 
 PG, or anyone who is looking for a game that is easy to get into, yet not easy to master. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: writincat
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 19, 2007 12:56 pm PT
Review:  With so many mods, so many refinements, this game never dies. There is a huge community of upgrades 
 to the original game and driven modders who continue to create huge, involved campaigns. It is 
 still THE classic WW II Grand Strategy Big Daddy! If you are into 1st person shooters where your 
 eyeballs bleed and you talk into a mike to a 14 year old in Missouri, run away; but if you love 
 plotting moves, rerunning battles to make sure you best unit lives, stamping out armies, achieving 
 extraordinary victories and trying out the new prototype fighter - you have found your home. Your 
 inner geek general will be fulfilled! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
