-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Panzer General III: Scorched Earth
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/panzergeneral3scorchedearth/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep 26, 2000
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.8
Critic Score: 6.7, 19 Review (s)
User Score: 7.8, 90 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: SSI
Genre: Strategy
Date:     Sep 28, 2000 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Panzer General III: Scorched Earth takes its predecessor's engine and simply shifts the setting 
 of the game to the Eastern Front. 

 SSI's Panzer General series has consistently provided no-nonsense World War II-themed fun for those 
 who prefer simpler gameplay over meticulous attention to realism. Panzer General II was the first 
 in the series to use 3D units, but those were pre-rendered. Last year's Panzer General 3D Assault 
 used fully 3D vehicle models while preserving the gameplay of the first two games. Panzer General 
 III: Scorched Earth takes its predecessor's engine and simply shifts the setting of the game to 
 the Eastern Front. Instead of the Americans, British, French, and Germans, it's the USSR against 
 Nazi Germany in the biggest land war in history. The campaigns - two each for the Soviet and German 
 sides - are sufficiently long and expansive to capture the feeling of that titanic conflict.   
 

  Panzer General III: Scorched Earth is a complete game in itself. However, the basic game engine 
 is identical to the one used in last year's Panzer General 3D Assault, and those who are familiar 
 with that game will find Scorched Earth to be little more than a set of new units, scenarios, and 
 campaigns for what is essentially the same game. The biggest addition since 3D Assault is the inclusion 
 of a battle generator for random engagements.   

  The Panzer General series is simple at its core, but involves a surprising amount of strategy and 
 planning. Movement and combat is turn-based, and units include tanks, infantry, aircraft, anti-tank 
 guns, and artillery, each with specific strengths and weaknesses against the others. Infantry holed 
 up in a city is very powerful against tanks, but is vulnerable to artillery bombardment. In the 
 open, that same infantry can be easily overrun by armor. Using combined arms to defeat the enemy 
 is a basic theme in all the Panzer General games, and is no less prominent in Scorched Earth. Because 
 the Soviets did not appear in Panzer General 3D Assault, Scorched Earth presents units like the 
 T-34 and KV-I tanks, MiG fighters, and Soviet infantry for the first time.   

  One major design change from Panzer General II to Panzer General 3D was the shift in focus from 
 unit experience to a system of leaders. In the first two Panzer General games, units gained experience 
 as they survived from battle to battle, and became more powerful as a result. In Assault and Scorched 
 Earth, units have leaders assigned to them, and it's these leaders who gradually get more powerful 
 through promotions earned for completing scenario objectives. Thus, a leader can be assigned to 
 different units in different scenarios. This robs the 3D Panzer General games of some of the charm 
 of the earlier ones, where relatively weak units like a Panzer II tank could survive into the latter 
 stages of a campaign and become quite powerful. In the 3D games, high-ranking leaders will invariably 
 get shifted to the stronger units, like Tigers and Panthers.   

  The campaigns in Scorched Earth are quite challenging, not because of a particularly strong computer 
 opponent, but because the scenarios themselves are set up to be difficult to win. This will certainly 
 frustrate novice players who will end up replaying scenarios over and over, since you can't progress 
 in a campaign until you've successfully completed the scenario at hand. For this reason, the difficulty 
 can be adjusted by giving yourself more units, better leaders, unlimited ammo, and the like.   
 

  The real problem with Scorched Earth is that it doesn't fix any of the problems introduced by the 
 shift to 3D: namely, the confusing perspective that can make judging unit positions difficult, 
 and the unfortunate shift away from the unit experience system. Scorched Earth is nothing more 
 than Panzer General 3D Assault in Russia, and the price seems a bit high for a simple extension 
 of a year-old game that itself hadn't improved much on its predecessors.   

  Panzer General III: Scorched Earth will offer absolutely no surprises to those who have played 
 previous games in the series. While the basic system still offers a simple and addicting game experience, 
 it hasn't really changed in five years. Then again, Panzer General addicts who've been waiting 
 for the 3D system to be applied to the Eastern Front will get their wish with Scorched Earth. While 
 it would have been nice to see SSI extend and improve the gameplay significantly in this latest 
 game in the series, to mess with the proven formula was apparently beyond the scope of Panzer General 
 III.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (4 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Tziganu_36
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 30, 2007 12:41 pm PT
Review:  I have played this game a long time ago and from time to time I reinstall and play it again
  In all this years one thing become clear: this seris of games offer by far the most complex yet 
 realistic war simulations.
  No other games in all this years (and we talk about 12 years!) came even close to the depth, complexity 
 and realism of this series.
  The best by far and I warmly recommend to all strategy addicts to give it a try .
  _________
 
  Of course for strategy purist, the 3D models can be seen as frivol and childish but what can be 
 more pleasant than actually see the realt shape of a Tiger smashing through the enemy lines?:) )
 
  
  My only regret is that no other producer dare to continue this serie. The Blitzkrieg or Panzers 
 games are interesting, but not TBS, and the strategy is replaced by tactics... The last panzer 
 game - Battle Front - is all about tactics the units are a mess... and it's just another C&amp; C 
 far worst than C&amp; C 3 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mentat76
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 11, 2006 2:07 am PT
Review:  I loved this game. I have spent lots of hours and it is surely a very well implemented strategy 
 among all other panzer generals. Its even the best.
  
  Now, Pros:
  + Superb game music. Creates athmosphere very easily, and keeps it up till the end.
  + Very nice 
 roster screen. After every mission, i eagerly rush to see new units. The camp view is a cool idea.
 
  + Camera angles are adjustable, which makes the battlefield much more realisic.
  + Leader factor. Its now available for you to choose your own leader which was not available in 
 any of the series. They offer special abilities.
  + Now you can see turret of your armor targets enemy when you order to fire. Which is a new ability 
 again.
  
  And, Cons:
  - Only the eastern front is addressed. I long awaited for an expansion pack or PG4 to be released 
 for the western front or even the full campaign.
  - Better animations and effects could have been created. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pcadmin110
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 27, 2006 3:32 am PT
Review:  Considering it's release date PGIII: SE represents a throwback to another era, the graphics are 
 clunky, the audio isn't awfully realistic or inspiring, the save system is cumbersome but overall 
 it just feels dated. Yet despite it's flaws I found PGIII: SE to be an incredibly addictive game, 
 one that I keep pulling out to play every year.
  
  Being a World War II buff the enjoyment I get out of this game comes from the ability to play out 
 a German victory during the Barbarossa campaign and let history proceed down an alternate path. 
 Indeed as I played this game it evoked the feeling that I WAS Guderian or Manstein ordering my 
 Wehrmacht divisions to attack - no blood, no carnage, no logistical problems, no arguments from 
 commanders - just tanks and men as chess pieces moving as ordered across a checkered board. Yes 
 I know - this game does also take a bit of imagination.
  
  It's not only the chess like feel that makes this a great game but also the historical depth in 
 unit coverage. German and Soviet units are covered thoroughly, from the Panzer 35 (t) to the Maus 
 (yes a working Maus) for the Germans and from the BT-7M to the IS-1 for the Soviets. Infantry and 
 air units are perhaps the only area that more work could have been done though the exhaustive choices 
 in tanks, artillery and anti-tank units is fully justified after all, these were the units that 
 proved pivotal throughout the war on the Eastern Front.
  
  The actual gameplay is deceptive, PGIII: SE may look simple to play - just drive your tanks around 
 and shoot anything in sight - but as you progress you'll realise that terrain, unit specials, leader 
 specials, unit strength and even unit positioning will affect your attack or defense. Planning 
 your strategy at the start of the campaign also adds to the fun, should you split your units up 
 to obtain multiple objectives or keep them together in one mighty fist? Fill your army with Tigers 
 and Ferdinands for maximum impact or Panthers and Panzer IVs for some speed? Alot of satisfaction 
 at the end of a mission comes from laying out the basic strategy at the start.
  
  An interesting facet of the game are the unit leaders. As your promote unit leaders they receive 
 leader specials that provide an edge in an even battle and it's almost critical that you preserve 
 them especially the highly skilled ones for the units outside the two main unit predominance you 
 chose at the start of the campaign. Things get interesting when you reach no-win situations where 
 it is certain some of your units will perish (yeah! Takes alot of reloads) .
  
  Ultimately PGIII: SE boils down to a complex World War II board game, relatively simple to learn 
 but difficult to master. It probably doesn't appeal to everyone and these days there are so much 
 more flashier and more complex strategy games. It is definitely an acquired taste for the World 
 War II armchair general and those military history revisionists with alot of imagination. Next 
 time your having a break from Far Cry or Civilizations III try this - maybe you'll like it like 
 I did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pad69
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 14, 2004 2:33 am PT
Review:  Well if you like stragity games this one is recomended by this viewer/player especialy if you are 
 looking for a history argument. Maybe you like the what if history lesson and if you do this one 
 is better than any of the old style WW2 box shelf board games of many years ago.
  
  I think it is best played with 3 of your history/what if buddies. You know arm chair Generals. 
 Well what if Patton did this or what if the brits did that. All sorts of war conditions exist in 
 this game from inexperienced troops and leaders to weather conditions. You get to pick the conditions 
 and who fights on which ever side. You can pit the brits against the Americans or Russians against 
 the Brits which ever you wish and the variety of maps are verry good.
  
  I play this one with my son in law and we like to take a break from Shooter games now and then. 
 This game is replayable to the Nth degree. We have had hours and hours of fun with it and there 
 is always something I learn new each time I play it.
  
  Well ---- you do have to keep an older computer around for it but we have a lot of them around here. 
 As we upgrade we keep the old ones. This way we can replay many old favorites here all the way 
 back to my old Comador 64 from 1984 and the old apple computer too! We even play the old games 
 I created in basic! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
