-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: ParaWorld
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/paraworld/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Interesting army controller mechanic that lets you control units instantly.
 heroic musical score.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Formulaic gameplay hampered by finite resources.
 combat is bland when it should be dino-awesome.
 simplistic story told with all the effectiveness of a kid's cartoon.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov  3, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.2
Critic Score: 7.2, 33 Review (s)
User Score: 8.0, 470 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Aspyr
Developer: SEK Ost
Genre: Real-Time Strategy
Date:     Sep 27, 2006 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Even dinosaurs, ninjas, and Vikings can't really elevate this real-time strategy game above its 
 generic roots. 

  If the success of  Jurassic Park  has taught us anything, it's that everyone loves dinosaurs. We 
 know from experience that people love ninjas too. And it's safe to say that there's a fair amount 
 of love for the Vikings (the historical ones, not the Minnesota kind) , which seems to be the premise 
 behind ParaWorld. This real-time strategy game is not set on a planet with a lot of parachuting 
 going on but instead on a parallel world where dinosaurs, Vikings, ninjas, and even desert tribesmen 
 all inexplicably coexist -- though not exactly in a peaceful way. ParaWorld throws all of these elements 
 together, but what -- on paper -- looks like a brilliant idea turns out to be another generic real-time 
 strategy game in a genre that is already stuffed with them.  

          Welcome to Jurassic... actually, welcome to the ParaWorld, where dinosaurs, Vikings, and 
 ninjas live.     

  You can't help but play ParaWorld and be reminded of the  Dinotopia  children's books, as well 
 as the short-lived television series, which seems appropriate because the game's overarching plot 
 is told with the simplicity (and the voice acting) of a Saturday morning cartoon. Basically, three 
 researchers from Earth discover that there's a parallel planet to our own, travel to it, and now 
 must find a way back. This means not only battling some of the more hostile residents but also 
 the evil bad guys from Earth who are exploiting the parallel planet. The story is told in such 
 broad strokes that you can't tell whether it's trying to be hammy on purpose. But at least it's 
 always easy to tell who's who because the bad guys chew on huge cigars, while the good guys wear 
 strange, bright-colored jumpsuits.  

  ParaWorld's main problem is that its gameplay mechanics just aren't that fresh or interesting. 
 It's not just the familiar blend of resource gathering, base construction, and unit generating 
 that's the issue here, but rather, all of it just isn't well put together. Resources are very, 
 very finite, which means that you're limited in the strategies you can apply because you can't 
 build much of anything. And if you fail, trying to rebuild your forces is that much tougher. Levels 
 are designed so that they lead you by the nose for the most part, which makes it feel like you're 
 not strategizing but rather jumping through hoops. And it doesn't help that your lumbering dino 
 units take a long time to get from point A to point B. Also, the combat is utterly generic while 
 the dinosaur and martial arts units aren't that tough, powerful, or special -- when you expect the 
 complete opposite.  

  There are some interesting ideas in ParaWorld, even if they can't save the game. The army controller 
 prevents you from simply swamping your opponents with sheer numbers because each unit takes up 
 a slot on the army controller, and you only have so many slots. More significantly, the slots are 
 divided into ranks, so you can only build so many level 1 units, a smaller number of level 2 units, 
 and so on. This also plays a role in promotions because you can use experience points (in this 
 case, skulls) to promote a unit to the next level, which means potentially unlocking new powers 
 or abilities, as well as giving more hit points, increased damage attacks, and so on. Meanwhile, 
 the missions in the game are part real-time strategy and part adventure because there are various 
 quests that you can pursue on the side. These quests aren't essential to the ultimate goal of winning 
 the level, but they can earn skulls that you can use to level up your heroes and units. However, 
 we did encounter some bugs. For example, when we accomplished a quest objective, the quest still 
 remained unsolved.  

          ParaWorld's innovative army controller is a nice thought, but the game is bogged in generic 
 real-time strategy formula.     

  Skirmish and multiplayer suffer from the same sorts of issues found in the single-player campaign. 
 Multiplayer offers up several modes, including standard deathmatch, a one-against-all defender 
 mode, and a domination mode where you must capture and hold a territory. Because all players rely 
 on the army controller, multiplayer matches are more even affairs. Each person has the same number 
 of points and unit slots to work with, so it all basically evens out.  

  The visuals in ParaWorld are far stronger than the audio. In fact, we really haven't seen many 
 real-time strategy games as lush as this one. The sun-drenched tropical setting is a nice change 
 of pace from most strategy games, which tend to be set in less warm and friendly climates. Meanwhile, 
 the dinosaurs are nicely detailed and animated when they're on the screen. The good looks are in 
 contrast to the lame dialogue and voice acting, which has characters sounding like one-note caricatures. 
 There's the bombastic guy, the smart guy, the reasonable girl, and so on. The one saving note on 
 audio is the heroic musical score, which borders on being overly heroic, but it's still fun to 
 listen to the music. However, when you get down to it, ParaWorld is essentially the same real-time 
 strategy formula that we've seen in countless other games. If you were hoping for scenes of awesome 
 combat with dinosaurs tearing up the place, you'll have to look elsewhere.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (14 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: hendolads
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 22, 2008 6:18 am PT
Review:  First of all id like to say that Game-spots rating is completely undeserved. The game itself introduces 
 a completely new and innovative unit control design that I think provides an easier way to control 
 the units strategically. The dinosaurs in the game are impressive and the special abilities they 
 utilize show great animations, and the diversity of the units available is great. I do agree with 
 Game-spots opinion on the poor cut-scene voice acting which does show cheesy voices (Especially 
 from Cole) but I think the other features of the game make up for this twofold. It is also probably 
 on par with some next gen games that came out in 2006-2007 when considered graphically, which provides 
 inventive environments. Only problem is there could have been more space for units on the sidebar, 
 but i would recommend this game to any RTS fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hardheartman
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 13, 2009 5:09 pm PT
Review:  Paraworld is a nice game with some interesting ideas, such as dinosaurs and mammoths added but 
 this idea is shattered as you play along.
  Creating armies of Dinosaurs and Prehistoric villages is the key to this game althoughit seems 
 flat without depth. The units are interesting but the heroes are pretty generic.
  Some intersting new units added like dinosaurs and mammoths, which is really nice but battle animations 
 arent good. Sounds are OK, nothing wrong here but Music is a bit boring and repetitive.
  in this game, You are highly limited in the number of units you can have by level. Units build rather 
 slow, and fight even slower. stages are very long and sometimes very hard. please Stay away from 
 this if you are nervous. overall, paraworld is just another RTS, but it is not bad for once. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grihn
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 4, 2007 8:34 pm PT
Review:  Let's face it. ParaWorld is a non-hyped game you saw one day on the shelf at your local Best Buy, 
 or perhaps read a review for it in a magazine. Bottom line, this wasn't supposed to be the newest 
 groundbreaking hit since Company of Heroes.
  
  Yes, it's another RTS game. Yes, it has the same basic feel of many RTS games of the past. However, 
 that is where it stops. The unit management is totally new, and it really works great. Not to mention 
 that being able to use a Raptor or Triceratops against your enemy is pretty darn cool.
  
  So let's talk the good first, shall we? To start off, you have the story, which although not movie-material, 
 it works for this game. If you are hasty to say this is too far fetched, I hope you aren't a fan 
 of the Dawn of War or Battle for Middle Earth series. Next you have graphics and sound. The game 
 looks quite well. I wouldn't go as far as to say it's one of the best looking RTS games out there, 
 but it could easily be compared to Rise of Legends. The sound is pretty good, too, although the 
 voice acting is a little off. And of course, you have the gameplay. The HUD is totally new. I own 
 and have played most strategy titles to date, and have never seen a display quite like this. It 
 really makes unit managing easy, organized, and clear to read. The game also ticks along at a quite 
 nice frame rate, even on a mediocre PC, while still having the visual details high.
  
  Of course, there is always going to be the bad. First, you have the script and voice acting. While 
 the music and ambient noise of the game is nice and realistic, the voice acting is very cheesy 
 and the script is, let's just call it corney. Why any game developer thinks that a person, espically 
 the token hero, would make wisecracks like these is beyond me. Besides that, the only other bad 
 (though I only found it to be a minor annoyance) thing is that it takes 3-4 missions for the game 
 to really pick up, but that can be said about most RTS titles. ParaWorld probably isn't for everybody. 
 Many casual gamers or those who don't play many strategy titles probably wouldn't care for this 
 one, because if you aren't used to the genere, you proably won't do very well with this game or 
 it's unit organization. However, if you are a fan of the strategy genere or are willing to put 
 a little time into learning about them, this is definately a title to own. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ghimly
Rating: 5.2
Date: Jun 1, 2007 1:41 am PT
Review:  At first glance Paraworld seemedto be a good idea... but this idea is shattered as you play along.
 
  
  Creating armies of Dinosaurs and Prehistoric villages is the key to this game althoughit seems 
 flat without depth. Plus, combing modern world heroes with prehistoric elements purely sucks.
 
  
  Even controlling and organising your armies can be tough at times. To many differns option and 
 level up systems make this game a though nut to crack.
  
  Still if you are a hard core RTS-Player you might enjoy this.
  
  Shame, but this game could 
 have been much better
  
  we are used to nicer games done by Sunflowers... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alkpaz
Rating: 7.3
Date: Mar 19, 2007 8:09 pm PT
Review:  After playing the first 3 missions, I had to stop playing this game.. Although the game is okay, 
 I just felt it was very sterile. The units are interesting but the heroes are pretty generic. The 
 graphics mentioned in the review are okay, but I felt they looked more along the lines of Age of 
 Empires 2 than a modern RTS game like Rise of Legends or Act of War or a number of recent RTS releases. 
 The music is just superb, the only beneficial factor to the game. Gameplay is standard RTS fair, 
 but it just seems to operate a little below par. I have to agree with most of GS's review of this 
 game.. its worth a look, even if your craving a little Primal Rage in your games. Just don't expect 
 much as far as coolness is concerned. The cutscenes leave a lot to be desired and although the 
 voice-acting is not good I have noticed worse in other games.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: metroidprime_11
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 7, 2007 12:03 pm PT
Review:  I think alot of us love dinosaurs wouldn't you? well i know i do and soon you will after you play 
 this game. It all happened when i was walking through town then in woolworths i saw a dinosaur 
 game, i ran in and spent all of my money for it. Anyway i played it when i got home and i thought 
 wow, i mean the graphics (sweet!) for instance they were as i said sweet and the range of people 
 and dinosaurs. Id say the only problem was the annoying things the characters said. But if u like 
 dinos and ure a computer bof then buy it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dowg005
Rating: 7.1
Date: Feb 3, 2007 9:57 pm PT
Review:  fastest game that u could play in the the speed zone i know that i play this game faster than u 
 guy. because i could make the speed goes faster 4 times than regular.
  to get faster:
  . when u start the game u in singleplayer u could make the speed go faster by pressing the + key 
 to speed up u could + 2 or more times to speed the game.
  .if u want to slow the game's speed u could just press - to slow the speed of the game.
  easy 
 as that.
  if u have a question u could just ask me.
  if u have a question u could just ask me.
  if u have a question u could just ask me.
  if u 
 have a question u could just ask me.
  if u have a question u could just ask me.
  if u have a question u could just ask me.
  if u have a question u could just ask me.
  if u 
 have a question u could just ask me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nevryn
Rating: 4.8
Date: Jan 4, 2007 11:27 pm PT
Review:  I grabbed this game because it seemed like it might be different, and it was in some aspects. You 
 are highly limited in the number of units you can have by level. Also the dinosaur units are kinda 
 fun. Yet after the first 2 missions you find every map turning into a battle of patience. Units 
 build rather slow, and fight even slower. End game campaign levels are so slow I found myself going 
 and getting dinner while my troops were in a battle. Unit pathing is absolutely awful, and the 
 enemy AI is rather pathetic, automatically heading straight for your workers every time despite 
 the fact that they are torn to pieces by the 10 other units that kill them first. The story line, 
 however, is somewhat interesting so I found myself persisting until the end to see what happened. 
 That was the biggest letdown. At the end you get a 5 second cut scene, and that's it. No explaination 
 of what happened after, no anything just, continue, and back to the mission selection screen. This 
 was a total let down after spending such a massive amount of time playing already. The best aspect 
 of this game in my opinion is the soundtrack which is similar to The Elder Scrolls soundtracks. 
 All in all, I was very disappointed in what seemed like it could have been a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: woef
Rating: 8.1
Date: Oct 27, 2006 11:23 am PT
Review:  Paraworld is a nice game with some interesting ideas, such as dinosaurs and mammoths added.
  In paraworld, you can choose between three races, each different.
  Both singleplayer and multiplayer 
 are added.
  
  Gameplay:
  +Normal RTS gameplay, with some new stuff added, like the battle screen
  +Some intersting new 
 units added like dinosaurs and mammoths, which is really nice.
  +Good tutorial, not that you need it.
  +Story is not hard to understand
  -Multiplayer: Try 
 to find someone online!
  -battle animations arent good
  
  Graphics:
  +Looks very colorful and detailed on higher settings.
  +Runs OK on a decent computer
  +Dinosaurs 
 look amazing
  -Some graphical issues
  
  Sounds:
  +Sounds are OK, nothing wrong here.
  -Music is a bit boring and repetitive
  
  Value:
  +Three different races and promoting and 
 stuff are good
  +Supports multiplayer
  +Decent campaign with cutscenes and all.
  -Try to find someone in multiplayer!
  
  Tilt:
  +Overall good first impression
  +Good presented 
 storyline
  +Some nice in-game cutscenes and a nice intro.
  
  Paraworld is just another RTS, but oww damn it is good enough.
  cya all 
::::::

::::::
UserName: operaoperaopera
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 26, 2006 3:48 am PT
Review:  3 tribes 50 animals, 40 dinosaurs Perfect gameplay Perfect graphics.
  
  Well I don't have any idea what to do to get the instruction to tell the workers what to build
 
  I have Taslow but he had nothing added into his or the workers list as an added to do item. Did 
 I miss something somewhere? I just added the patch a little while ago and no problems running the 
 game afterwards. Did you players get that item added in your ppls construction list somewhere or 
 whatever? I built a tower where the command said to put a tower nearby and I put it right were 
 the question mark was.. should I have put it off to the side so that I would have received another 
 indicator somehow to start building it where the question mark was so then when I take Taslow and 
 the workers over there, he'd automatically tell them what needed to be done and they would just 
 know what and how it was to be done? I did try taking him over there but since I put the tower 
 right in front, maybe that's what caused me not to get a comment from him about what needed to 
 be done? I'm really at a loss here. My save to restart is before we build the tower and get the 
 message to defend. I played it first a little to try and get an idea of what was coming next and 
 because of the confusion about it, I quit so I could come here and seek these answers before trying 
 again anymore
  
  Please for goodness sake, advise me on this or I'm dead in the water... Thanks again very much. 
 I'll be checking back frequently to see if and when I get a reply. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: emaus
Rating: 5.8
Date: Oct 25, 2006 12:13 pm PT
Review:  I thought I would like this game and perhaps I would have if they hadn't strayed too much from 
 other RTS games. I don't mean that in gameplay I mean that in controls. Being used to Warhammer 
 40K, Company of Heroes, and Warcraft 3 will be a detriment in playing this game as things that 
 are second nature to you there will just frustrate you with paraworld.
  
  The story is that you are scientists who take a ride to another dimension where dinasaurs roam 
 the earth. The characters a pretty cheesy and voice acting is barely tollerable.
  
  Playing through the single player campaign was at times very frustrating. It is just shocking to 
 me that you would make an RTS that control wise does not come close to the other great ones out 
 there, I mean just copy it like everyone else does it works. The units level up, but not automatically, 
 you sort of have to figure it out which sucks. The army manager is just wierd. You can ctrl-# groups 
 of units, but that's about it for what you would expect from controls.
  
  The fact gamespot has not even reviewed it yet should say something I suppose. I for one am dissapointed 
 I made the purchase, but it wasn't as expensive as other games so that is a blessing I suppose. 
 If you are used to the quality of Warhammer, Company of Heroes, and Warcraft this game will just 
 piss you off.
  
  Graphics: blah
  Sound: no complaints
  Value: not sure I did not enjoy it enough to finish it. Was only 24.99.
  
  Awesome Moments:
 
  None Really.
  Frustating Moments:
  Bad controls, not a cohesive game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MGSFan27285
Rating: 4.3
Date: Oct 23, 2006 6:05 pm PT
Review:  Well it had a cool concept, use modern day combat mixed with dinos. Paraworld didn't have very 
 good graphics for one thing, the cinemas were horrid with poor voice sync and voice acting, the 
 story of it is underwhelming, and further more its just plain boring. I got on it, hoping itd be 
 my next purchase, but instead Im left here holding my head in absolute boredom. The combat is so 
 unexciting, and theres not enough types of civilizations you can choose from. Its not even challenging, 
 at the least. The campaign, like most, is bad. The game is like Jurassic park on crack. For those 
 of you who dont know what this game is like, its exactly like Jurassic park, but in RTS form. People 
 goto an island and the island is infested with dinos, woooo creative (sarcasm) . The Voice acting 
 is worse than those old Godzilla movies. The guys mouth is moving loooong after hes done talking. 
 The graphics also look like they could be ran on a something between a PS1 and PSP. Overall this 
 game SUCKS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XLAXXLV
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 15, 2006 9:52 pm PT
Review:  So far I love Paraworld. It is nice to see something other than another military game.
  
  The dino theme is excellent. The units, quests, visuals and story are very fun and entertaining. 
 The voice acting is a bit cheesy at times.
  
  I really like how you can level your units to make them stronger and level the units you want.
 
  
  The use of animals as units is handled well and enjoyable.
  
  Feels like AOE 3 + a huge helping of Jurassic Park
  
  I enjoyed days of the C &amp; C series 
 and old school warcraft 1, 2, &amp; 3, and Paraworld has brought me back to those days! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zennious
Rating: 7.2
Date: Oct 8, 2006 5:40 pm PT
Review:  The truth is that you shouldn't really play this game unless you really enjoy the fact that you 
 can control dinosaurs. All in all this game has the exact feel as Age of Empires. It feels like 
 this should just be a mod that can change AoE and make it somewhat fun for a Saturday Afternoon.
 
  
  Gameplay: Same old Same RTS
  Graphics: Better than average but not much more.
  Sound: So So
  Value: Unless you like Dinos and Age of Empires not worth it.
  
  Final Verdict: 
 Don't buy unless your love to collect, and don't buy it unless you feel the urge to use dinosaurs 
 in an RTS. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
