-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Paradise
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/adventure/paradise/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Great-looking, detailed artwork.
 Good voice work for the most part.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Story takes forever to get interesting, and as soon as it does, the game ends.
 Lifeless, wooden characters.
 Inconsistent difficulty.
 Unresponsive controls .
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: May 18, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.8
Critic Score: 5.8, 16 Review (s)
User Score: 7.0, 359 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ubisoft
Developer: White Birds Prod.
Genre: Adventure
Date:     May 3, 2006
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Paradise looks great, but the dull story and uneven challenge make it a completely unenjoyable game. 
 

  Like the main character in Paradise, you might end up with amnesia after playing this game. That's 
 because by the time you get to the end, you'll have forgotten why you were ever playing the game 
 in the first place. It's an achingly dull, often frustrating adventure game set in a fictional 
 African nation that's full of exotic creatures, dark mysteries, and inane puzzles. Fans of point-and-click 
 adventure games might find something to enjoy in Paradise, because there's plenty of pointing and 
 clicking to be had in the game. Unfortunately, there isn't much else.  

          There isn't much about this game that feels like paradise.     

  Paradise takes place 
 in the fictional African nation of Maurania, where rebels are taking up arms against the ruthless 
 King Rodon. You play as the estranged daughter of King Rodon, who hasn't seen her father in years 
 but decides to visit him because he's supposedly quite ill. On her way to the country, her plane 
 is shot down, and she wakes up in a palace. Of course, she can't remember her name or anything 
 about who she is. She happens to have a book with the name Anne Smith on it, so she decides to 
 take on that name for the time being. Anne's first order of business is to get out of the palace, 
 and then she must work her way through half a dozen different areas to finally meet up with her 
 father and settle her past. The story does manage to get interesting eventually, but it's too little 
 too late. Characters are hurriedly introduced, and they fade away just as quickly. The very few 
 characters who do manage to stick around are the least interesting characters in the game. Anne, 
 for example, is completely lifeless and has no reaction whatsoever when people around her start 
 dropping like flies. Instead of wondering why these people are dead all of a sudden, she would 
 rather continue from one area to another for unexplained reasons. After about 10 or 12 hours of 
 vague story progression (provided you don't get stuck in any one area for too long) , the game suddenly 
 ends just as it starts to get interesting.  

  The story is boring enough, and the gameplay isn't any better. Like a typical point-and-click adventure 
 game, Paradise has you clicking on static backgrounds to move Anne about from a third-person perspective. 
 The cursor changes shape as you move over objects and areas that you can interact with, so most 
 of the game becomes a matter of hunting for the hot spot on each screen. The problem is that these 
 interactive areas are often difficult to spot due to odd camera angles and a cursor that doesn't 
 always respond. For one, the cursor is slow to change shape when you do find the right spot, and 
 for another, it sometimes takes several clicks for Anne to respond.  

  The bulk of the gameplay in Paradise involves completing various puzzles. Some of the puzzles involve 
 fetching items for characters in order to persuade them to help you out, while other puzzles are 
 of the  variety. Many puzzles derive challenge from the fact 
 that they don't seem to follow any apparent logic. For example, early in the game you need a flower 
 to make perfume. You have to first go climb a tower and look through an out-of-the-way telescope 
 to see a flower bud hanging from a tree. Then you have to go all the way to the other side of the 
 palace and enter a completely unrelated area to trigger a cutscene where it suddenly becomes nighttime 
 and the flower blooms and falls from the tree. There's no indication whatsoever what you need to 
 do to trigger the scene, and the puzzle is made even more difficult by the fact that the telescope 
 area is completely obscured by the fixed camera angle in the adjoining room. However, once you 
 manage to get the flower, the rest of the puzzle is laughably easy, because the remaining ingredients 
 are provided along with a list of step-by-step instructions on how to make the perfume.  

  Puzzles like this one are all throughout the game, and they don't seem to progress in terms of 
 providing challenge. In one of the later puzzles, you encounter a four-digit keypad on a locked 
 door. In a stupidly easy moment, you simply have to find the sticky note on a cabinet door not 
 10 feet away that tells you the code. There's no deduction required; the note simply states the 
 code. You'd think that if someone were concerned enough about security to install such a device 
 that the person would go to a bit more trouble to conceal the key code, but apparently that isn't 
 the case in this game. Moments like these make the game feel like an attempt at creating puzzles 
 that take advantage of the fact that a lot of people who play adventure games have long since resigned 
 themselves to collecting painfully obvious keys and clues and fiddling with nonsensical contraptions. 

  Oh yeah, there's also a leopard in the game for some reason. It doesn't play much of a role in 
 the story other than people often saying that it plays an important role in the story, but the 
 leopard does tend to run away, which provides you with the motivation to set traps or go exploring 
 in search of it. There are a few moments in the game when you get to take control of the leopard, 
 but all there is to do is walk around for a while, jump, and interact with a couple of objects. 
 Other than that, about all you can do is hit escape at any time to skip the leopard sequence and 
 move on, which is indicative of just how important these playable leopard moments are to the rest 
 of the game.  

          You get to play as a leopard at a few moments in the game, but there's not much reason 
 to.     

  The best part of Paradise is far and away the visual presentation. The backgrounds look great and 
 are highly detailed. From the treetop village, to the rusted old hulk of a ship, to the abandoned 
 emerald mine, each area looks unique, but they all seem to fit together. The only rough spot in 
 the visuals is the way the characters interact with the backgrounds. The stiff animations and odd 
 movements of the characters against the backgrounds will often take you out of the game. You'll 
 see Anne float across a floor, clip through other characters or objects, and generally look completely 
 disconnected from the environment.  

  Overall, Paradise doesn't have much to offer, even if you're a fan of point-and-click adventure 
 games. The backgrounds look nice and the story does manage to get slightly interesting toward the 
 end, but the game requires a substantial amount of work without much reward.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (21 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: askelly35
Rating: 4
Date: Dec 23, 2008 5:04 pm PT
Review:  I completed Paradise but not without a whole lot of swearing, keyboard pounding and cheating. 
 
  
  
  My swearing and keyboard pounding are unfortunately directly related to game's bugginess. There 
 were defective cursors that wouldn't change into the right activity, conversations that didn't 
 happen when they're supposed to, lock ups requiring reboots and on and on...
  
  But it's such a pretty game and I loved the creatures that were introduced. The animations were 
 great, especially the gazelines... I'd love to own one of those things...
  
  Sad to say the game is a very uneven effort... parts of it were really well done and other parts 
 downright sucked. The guy/gal that programmed the creatures is brilliant whereas the guy/gal in 
 charge of the conversation logic needs to be fired.
  
  And Benoit's story? Again a lot of potential, he's created a very interesting Africa but the plot 
 was weak, weak, weak and it ends all very abruptly leaving room for a sequel, I guess.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lycentia
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 22, 2008 11:46 pm PT
Review:  This game had beautiful graphics, looks just like Siberia. Warning it is full of bugs! I had to 
 start over once and edit my save game once just to finish due to characters not talking to me when 
 they were supposed to. I couldn't find a whole lot of help with my bugs either since it's an old 
 game and the version I had is a copy in a Viva media anthology package. 
  
  I had a difficult time controlling the cat. I got stuck a couple of times and ended up just escaping 
 out and of the cat parts.
  
  The game-play is pretty much your basic inventory puzzle adventure. (Find ways to use items to 
 get things done) My favorite type of game! The puzzles themselves are fairly easy but some of the 
 leads to the puzzles are confusing enough to consult a walk-through. You pretty much will only 
 need a few tips to point you in the right direction.
  
  Anne is kind of annoying when she starts conversations. She has been known to start a conversation 
 with "huh", and this one time in the mine she yelled to start a conversation, it just didn't fit. 
 I think the yell was supposed to happen only after the water was flooding the mine but she did 
 it when I asked the guy about the elephant so it was kinda strange.
  
  I was rather disappointed with the places I visited. It felt quite deserted of human life. It was 
 pretty depressing.
  
  The story was pretty good until I got to the end. Then I was greatly disappointed. More than disappointed 
 I was pretty mad. So much so I had to come post a review. After that ending I wished that I had 
 never played the game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: vecuf
Rating: 6.1
Date: Apr 5, 2007 4:32 am PT
Review:  If you are a fan of Benoit Sokal adventure games you shouldn't miss this one. But, if you are searching 
 for a great adventure, you should search it somewhere else.
  
  Soon after you'll enter the game you'll be touched by Benoit Sokal inventions, by his strange and 
 complicated menu machineries. Your mind will be exalted at the idea that you'll be entering in 
 another great adventure like Syberia was, and, at least for the first two chapters the game manages 
 to keep the player in front of the computer.
  
  But, after entering deeper in the game, you'll be pulled down in the mud by numerous bugs, glitches 
 and all sort of problems. The game story and the puzzles are becoming awkward and awkward, culminating 
 in a totally illogical ending. (I don't want to spoil anything, in case you'll have the strength 
 to resist until the final scene) .
  
  What a total letdown... This game starts well, the oriental atmosphere is great, the graphics are 
 extraordinary, but, what happened then? The game fails big time. This should have been another 
 masterpiece of Benoit Sokal, the world he created in Paradise is great like every world created 
 by him in every videogame he made, but the developers seems to not had the time to properly finish 
 the game or they are just simply amators...
  
  I am really curious about the future games from Micro Application and White Birds. Personally, 
 I will rent their games first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Anathemic
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 2, 2007 3:57 pm PT
Review:  I don't understand why so many reviews for this game are bad, and gamespot for AD reviews really 
 bad. Oo. This game has a lot of potential at the begining and it's very good used.
  I liked this game.. If you didn't know, it's Sokal's Paradise who is creator of Syberia. Must say, 
 this game looks like Syberia.
  You play a girl which had an accident and got amnesia. It's nice enviromnent but should been clearer.
 
  As for the music, it rocks. :) I very much liked it (music, in the begining, reminded me of Orphaned 
 Land just lighter :) ) .
  The puzzles are easy, but you can forget your way back, or you can't see something, etc. Isn't 
 really easy , but isn't so so hard and you will need some help/walkthrough...
  It's quite an exellent story, very interesting and addicitive. Main character is nice, nobody annoying, 
 etc. But it's the matter of taste like everything else, right? :)
  The end was... like omg... I couldn't believe. It rather illogical.. dunno.. I didn't like it... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedneckGamer87
Rating: 7.8
Date: Feb 21, 2007 4:38 pm PT
Review:  GamePlay: This game was made by the same person who made Syberia and Syberia 2. The story starts 
 off with the protagonist is in a horrible accident and loses her memory. Who is she? Why did she 
 come to this war-torn country? These are questions that we as players already know the answer to, 
 but we have to be taken through the game, our hand held, as the story is nonetheless revealed to 
 us in unsurprising, generally bland chat sequences and somewhat more entertaining, beautifully 
 rendered cutscenes. Ann Smith (as she is called throughout) has crash-landed in Maurania, a land 
 torn apart by a rebellion and led by a king who has failed his people and become a tyrant. We know 
 from reading the back of the box and the light manual that she is the daughter of this king and 
 she was headed to visit her father, who has become ill. After a very impressive cutscene, players 
 are dropped into a room with no direction as to what to do next. Thankfully, there just aren't 
 many options -- here or any other part of the game -- so a little exploring always yields answers. 
 I just wish the solutions were actually interesting. I wouldn't call this much of a puzzle game 
 either. The few actual puzzles I found were akin to figuring out what a series of buttons did, 
 then pressing them in the right order. The game's puzzles mainly consist of figuring out what to 
 do next, and it is rarely obvious what that is. In one instance, I had visited all the locations 
 in the game and seemingly exhausted everything. Little did I know that I had to revisit a location 
 to activate a cutscene (flowers blossoming) after discovering a recipe. there's also a leopard 
 in the game for some reason. It doesn't play much of a role in the story other than people often 
 saying that it plays an important role in the story, but the leopard does tend to run away, which 
 provides you with the motivation to set traps or go exploring in search of it. You can play the 
 Lepord every now and then but it does not really do much to change the story of the game much. 
 After about 10 or 12 hours of vague story progression (provided you don't get stuck in any one 
 area for too long) , the game suddenly ends just as it starts to get interesting. The Controlls 
 are good at times but could be smoother.
  
  Graphics: The Graphics are absolutly Amazing. They are colorfull and detailed. They are very nice 
 too look at.
  
  Sound: The soundtrack is pretty nice and the voice acting is not bad for most of the game.
  
 
  Value: I would say this game is pretty hard to get in to because of the slow paced story and when 
 the story of the game gets intresting it ends. Hopefully there will be a second one which will 
 have a better story and gameplay.
  
  If you have played the Syberia games then you will be familier with the gameplay.
  
  As much 
 as I am a fan of the creator of the Syberia Series I would have to say that I had high hopes for 
 this game but I was slightly Dissapointed.
  I give this game 7 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Calist0
Rating: 6.9
Date: Nov 22, 2006 3:41 am PT
Review:  This game is not so boring as Tunguska, now there is a mediocre game!
  
  Paradise... the title say more then the game can say. To bad this game fails at the very beginning 
 when you start moving Ann , practically you are in the tree with what is happening and what is 
 all about in this game.
  
  But it compensates with the graphics, they are amazing, that town - the way it is drawn , my god, 
 too bad it requires a powerful system regarding that it is a point and click game based on background 
 pictures, but anyway it has a stunning look.
  
  The characters were also great but it had their flaws like Ann when she entered the garage in the 
 town and she saws the mechanic lying down dead she goes: Ahhh and that's it, no attempt to save 
 his life , check the pulse and all, no nothing, you continue to play normaly which is dumb.
  
  Anyway, sounds and the ambiance were also great.
  
  All in one, it is not a great game, 
 i mean it's impressive by the looks and sounds but the story line is a bit dissapointing, and the 
 puzzles a bit strange and confusing. But it worth playing, rent it first you'll never know.
  
  Cheers 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Carrotz
Rating: 3.5
Date: Oct 23, 2006 1:12 am PT
Review:  The game elements from Syberia is why I bought this game: Beautiful graphics and an easy-to-play 
 game. A great pass-time game. Though a big fan of the Syberia series, I cannot bring myself to 
 finish this game. It's just too hard, I can't find the links nor pick up any hints of what to do 
 next, and the rusty game controls are not helping. It's impossible to finish this game without 
 going thru the walkthrough from time to time. This makes it more of a chore rather than entertainment. 
 I am sorry to say that Paradise has made a complete mess out of what it can potentially give. I 
 think it focuses too much in making it a beautiful game, which it is. But do remember that this 
 is a game. And a game should always entertain, not irritate. Still, it is the most beautiful game 
 I have ever come across. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Honeydipps
Rating: 5.8
Date: Sep 27, 2006 8:27 pm PT
Review:  Have no complaints about the graphics. In fact, it's the best you could ever see in a game. The 
 puzzles are challenging enough. But the story was too short, too shallow, rather irrelevant, and 
 confusing, that all the good points in the game went downhill with it. The bit with the leopard 
 was interesting enough, but it was a little difficult to maneuver, and also, the game was too short 
 to enjoy the feature. The ending left so many questions unanswered, and it wasn't that pleasant 
 either. In fact, the whole atmosphere was depressing, you're eyebrows are drawn so close together 
 trying to make sense of the whole game. It's a waste of time and money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: strangergv
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 23, 2006 10:51 pm PT
Review:  I love syberia one and two paradise it's creator is the same one the made syberia Benoit Sokal 
 I love this game this game is amazing a truly Benoit Sokal MASTERPIECE.
  
  What the hell is the matter with you people out there that gave this game a bad score and bad review 
 a score of 6.8 or less what the hell you want in a game dos everything have to be just right. You 
 people make me sick call yourselves gamers you people don't know a good game if it bit you on the 
 you know what. You can't judge this game just by playing it just one hour and giving up on it. 
 whats the matter can't solve the sweet-cake puzzle.
  
  Play this game with a open mind.
  
  All the bad scores and reviews did not stop me from buying the game. I am 
  playing this 
 game and I don't understand why the bad scores and bad reviews. Paradise is not in syberia paradise 
 is in Africa you people that gave
  paradise bad score think that paradise is syberia and want the to play the same way. Maybe Benoit 
 had something else in mind for paradise.
  
  I don't agree that Benoit blew it with paradise. Don't you know that it's not easy to create imaginary 
 places characters environment and objects that 
  interact with the character you are playing so came on wake up this is a adventure game.
  
 
  I don't agree this game is boring I don't agree that there are many technical
  difficulties in this game it's all in your head the game just has a few minor bugs that are addressed 
 in the 1.1.1 patch.
  
  Paradise is a amazing game I love the way the game plays the graphics are
  amazing I love the 
 music the way Ann Smith interact with environment characters and objects. and I love the cut sens
 
  
  The controls in this game are limited to the mouse in point and click you can go in the direction 
 the mouse cursor icon allows you to go right click 
  opens the inventory.
  
  I love the dialogue system to talk to a non-player you must click on them to
  speak to them with 
 the left mouse button now how much sympathy a non-player has for Ann Smith the dialogue that you 
 select from the dialogue menu will cause anger or joy so don't get Ann's respondent upset or Ann's
 
  respondent will get upset and refuse to talk to Ann.
  inventory is easy to use right click to open and close inventory the cursor icon will let you know 
 what you can interact with.
  
  Paradise is truly a amazing game I love it a truly Benoit Sokal MASTERPIECE
  
  
  
  
  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cartmanstein
Rating: 4.7
Date: Jul 29, 2006 12:50 am PT
Review:  Its terrible games like these that make protecting the adventure genre from utter destruction much 
 more harder than it already is. Very repetitive dialogue and talking, extremely agitating and annoying 
 puzzles, just completely no logic whatsoever, and no question quadruple by-pass of boring and just 
 plain old crap make this game....... I'm too bored to from this game to come up with something insulting. 
 This game does have one good thing though. Its damn good lookin. mighty perrrtyful looks and terrific 
 creature designs are all I have to say thats good about this game. I do have one more thing to 
 say though, the loading screens are MUCH more interesting than the storyline for this craptastic 
 game. Just don't buy it its not worth however much you pay for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LAntichristo
Rating: 4.2
Date: Jul 14, 2006 10:19 am PT
Review:  A sad lifeless game! Such a shame! The most stunning graphics and really beautiful sound went completely 
 to waste. The story is poor and meaningless. The characters are completely indifferent. The game 
 play is sometimes impossible. In the few puzzles in the game there is no logic. Not even illogical 
 logic! The dialogues are confusing and sometimes you have to go through all sorts of senseless 
 blabbering in order to activate the next step. Malkia walks around like a worthless zombie, 
 picks up things and doesnt say a thing! People around her die, commit suicide, weird things are 
 happening and all she has to say is . . . . NOTHING!
  The panther in the game is utterly useless and when you play as the panther you think there might 
 be a reason to do so, but again, after a while you realize that its completely POINTLESS since 
 you can cancel the panther mode any time you want.
  The game ends all of a sudden after a sobbing video with no closure leaving you with a cliffhanger 
 thinking OH LORD is there going to be MORE of this atrocity? 
  
  It is so sad because some parts of the game are visually breathtaking! But sadly, that is all! 
 Beautiful pictures! 
  So sad!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gilligan1961
Rating: 4.8
Date: Jun 18, 2006 7:47 pm PT
Review:  I loved Syberia 1 & 2, so that made the pain that much greater when it quickly became obvious that 
 Paradise was a failure. Certainly there are aspects of the game that are to be commended, particularly 
 in the graphics and sound department, but the overall execution of the game is completely sub Syberia. 
 However, there are many technical difficiencies in the game that make it almost unplayable. Some 
 of these have been addresed in the patch that has been released, but for me it was too little too 
 late.
  I must confess I gave up on the game in the first hour or so of play, because it was becoming obvious 
 that the game was left unpolished and simply reeked mediocrity. The biggest complaint I have is 
 the total lack of character interaction with the environment and objects when inspecting them. 
 In Syberia, you felt like you were Kate Walker and she constantly was engaged with characters and 
 the objects she used. In Paradise, you walk up to an object, for instance some chemical apparatus, 
 and no matter what you click on you get no response, like a simple "Gee, that didn''t work", or 
 maybe a "I think I need something else". How about a "I wonder what this is for?" Ann just needs 
 TO SAY SOMETHING to make you feel like there is a real adventure going on. It was utterly boring, 
 and a complete waste of time. Benoit, how could you do this!!??? Did you lose control of the project? 
 Did it go over budget and just have to be put out? The game had huge potential, and you'd think 
 at the very least he would build upon everything that was right about the Syberia series, and go 
 beyond them. But the game fails miserably. I am so disappointed.... I hope Benoit is able to recover 
 from this and next time remember that a game is more than pretty pictures. It's all about the story 
 and the ability of the designer to allow you to enter an imaginary realm and really feel a part 
 of that world. Paradise has indeed been lost......... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skizzo2711
Rating: 6.5
Date: May 30, 2006 1:03 pm PT
Review:  Overview
  
  Paradise is a game by Benot Sokal, the same person who was behind the Syberia games and this shows. 
 Like in Syberia, this game is set in a country that doesnt really exist, while the game puts you 
 in fantastic surroundings. Indeed it looks as beautiful as the surroundings did in Syberia, maybe 
 even a little bit better. Also, the puzzles return that we have come to known in Syberia, which 
 means that they are diverse and not too hard with the exeption of some.
  
  You take on the role of Ann Smith, a young woman who wakes up in a Palace in Maurania, the country 
 in which the story is set. Ann cannot remember anything of her past, but she soon learns that Maurania 
 is not the safest place to be right now and she decides that she wants to leave. This of course 
 is easier said than done and here is where your role comes in. Guide Ann through several locations 
 and help her regain her memories. What was Ann doing in Maurania in the first place? And what is 
 the role of the leopard she encounters?
  
  
  The game
  
  Who said that point & click is dead? Because, once again a point & click adventure has come to 
 entertain us and in that, the game has succeeded! Before going deeper into the actual gameplay, 
 let me just tell you this: if you liked the Syberia games, youll like this game too. On the other 
 hand, if you really hated Syberia chances are pretty high that you wont like Paradise one bit. 
 Having said this, lets go on to the actual gameplay.
  
  As I mentioned, you play as Ann Smith, a young woman who has lost her memory and all she knows 
 is that she wants to leave Maurania, the country where she is currently residing. I found the intro 
 to be cut off a little bit abrupt, but on the other hand, if you take into account the sudden memory 
 loss of Ann, then it could work fine. The surroundings are absolutely gorgeous and often breathtaking. 
 Since the game often requires you to really explore the surroundings, this is a good thing. But 
 about this exploring of the surroundings: I have encountered several moments in the game (especially 
 in the beginning) where I had missed an object or a location, which stranded me in the game. At 
 those moments there is nothing else you can do but going back to every location and really take 
 a good look around with your mouse cursor. But if youre a die-hard adventurer, than this should 
 be an all too familiar thing and it shouldnt hold you back for too long (although once or twice 
 it really did in my case) . The game follows in many ways the setting of Syberia: the look of the 
 surroundings, the implementation of certain puzzles and the order of events and progression in 
 the game.
  
  There is however, something completely new in this game and although its absolutely not my style 
 and I personally did not like it, I would definitely say that its a good thing. The thing that 
 Im talking about is the control of a leopard. At a few moments in the game, you take on the role 
 of the leopard, which seems to be connected to Ann somehow. Seeing that a leopard will probably 
 have a hard time solving the classic adventure puzzles, the role of the leopard is a somewhat different 
 one, like for example getting to Ann while avoiding certain places/persons. As far as I know you 
 cannot die in these sequences (or anywhere in the game for that matter) , but Im not sure, because 
 after some walking around with the animal I decided to skip these sequences. Thats right, if you 
 really dont like to play as the leopard, you can skip those parts. You wont miss that much of 
 the game. Of course, you get less gameplay if you skip it, but you wont miss anything of the storyline, 
 so the choice is yours. This is also why I think that the adding of this part of the game and the 
 choice to skip it, is a really good thing.
  
  
  The controls 
  
  Being a point & click game, the mouse is all youll need. The trusted left click to walk to places 
 (and a double click to run) and to interact with objects, which will be shown by a change of the 
 mouse cursor, while a right click will open your inventory. The use of your inventory is slightly 
 different than you might be used to, however. Although the change is minor, its a change. If you 
 choose to examine an object in your inventory, youll have to click a separate button in your inventory 
 to do so. Also, clicking an object in your inventory selects it, but it also automatically closes 
 your inventory to use the object with something in screen. If you want to combine objects in your 
 inventory (which you need to do sometimes) , youll have to drag the objects over another. Apart 
 from that, theres nothing new to the part where you walk around with Ann. Controlling the leopard 
 however, is a different matter.
  
  Since the sequences with the leopard mostly consist of getting the leopard to a certain place, 
 you mostly have to get it to follow your cursor. In the parts where you control the leopard, you 
 do not control it directly, like you control Ann. Instead, your mouse cursor takes on the shape 
 of an arrow, which you click and hold to let the leopard follow it. The leopard can get distracted 
 by things he sees, so if that happens, youll have to get its attention again. Then there are sometimes 
 moments when the leopard can do something special. Nothing too fancy, just jump over an object 
 or something similar. If the leopard can do this to or with a certain object, your mouse cursor 
 will change into a blue icon while hovering over that object. A right click will make the leopard 
 do it.
  
  So on overall the controls are very simple and straightforward. There is however one more thing 
 Id like to add and that is that at certain moments, the AI of your character isnt that great, 
 meaning that if you click to let Ann walk to a place, shell try to get there without avoiding 
 objects that are clearly in the way. Although this is something that many people could see as a 
 major annoyance, it just means that you sometimes have to steer your character some more and that 
 isnt too difficult.
  
  
  The graphics
  
  Backgrounds are mostly pre-rendered, which makes them 2D. In this game, that certainly is a good 
 thing, because I sincerely doubt if this kind of detail in the surroundings could have been achieved 
 in 3D. Other than saying that the surroundings look absolutely amazing and that this sometimes 
 make it hard for you to find a certain usable object (pixel hunting) , there is nothing in particular 
 to mention about the surroundings.
  Looking at the characters, which are in 3D, you can clearly see the similarities with Syberia. 
 This means that the characters look pretty good (in my opinion) , but nothing cutting edge. But 
 do you find that really necessary in an adventure game? Suffice it to say that the characters on 
 overall look very nice. I only found that the leopard lacked in detail. Maybe my expectations were 
 to high after first seeing an animation of the animal while in the start-up menu, but I found seeing 
 the animal in-game a bit of a disappointment. I wouldnt call it ugly, but it seriously lacks in 
 detail. Mostly it is just hard to see that the animal is covered in fur, rather than in a dark 
 grey coat of paint. This is not only the case in when you control Ann Smith, in a 2D pre-rendered 
 environment, but also when you play as the leopard itself, in a 3D environment. Yes, it is true: 
 there are some parts that take place in a fully 3D environment, namely when you play as the leopard. 
 But let me tell you this, dont expect too much of them, because the environments in 3D really 
 dont look that great and you dont get to see that much of the environment in those sequences 
 anyway. So I must say that although I like the idea of having those sequences in which you walk 
 around in a 3D environment with the leopard, those sequences could have looked much better. A bit 
 of a shame, really.
  
  And last but not least about the graphics, the way the characters move. And I have to say that 
 on overall, Im not too thrilled about that. There were numerous sequences in which Ann picked 
 up something that made it look like the object floated around, or disappeared, or similar. Although 
 it can always be that this happens once or twice in a game, it occurred simply far too often in 
 this game in my opinion. It was also not rare that when Ann spoke to a character, Ann and the character 
 were speaking back to back. Those are glitches that I find one cannot simply overlook.
  
  
  The sound
  
  The music is good. Really good and it adds to the gameplay. This is good, 
 because there will be times when youll be walking around and trying to find a solution to a puzzle 
 and when youd have to do this in silence, it would become a bit boring. I can relate however, 
 to people who might say that the music is a bit tedious. The music just loops after a while and 
 if youre busy trying to figure something out for some time, you can get annoyed by this. Still, 
 I find this a lot better than silence and it didnt bother me that much.
  The background sounds are good and theres not really much to say about those, except that after 
 a while I began to get a little bit annoyed by the clicking sounds Anns boots made while running.
 
  
  The voices are good, but not superb. Now dont go and think that theres not much positive to find 
 about this game, because good voices are often great, meaning that there are way too many games 
 out there with bad voicing and having a game with good voices can really make my day because of 
 this. So, like I said, voices arent superb, but theyre definitely pretty good (there, did that 
 sound more positive?) .
  
  
  Overall
  
  I would say that the game is pretty good and better than many other adventures weve seen. I find 
 that people wont be able to use the argument of being unable to relate with the main character, 
 simply because of the background that Ann has at the beginning of the game. There were however 
 some annoyances about the game, but I find it admirable that the creators have dared to try something 
 new with the leopard, although I personally didnt like it that much. One thing that I also had 
 with Syberia, is that I found the game too short. My guess would be that the game had a gameplay 
 of no more than 10 hours, which is too short for an adventure game in my opinion.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pike888
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 19, 2006 3:30 pm PT
Review:  most of bad reviews about paradise didn't prevent me from getting my copy of this game. and i didn't 
 regret. after few hours of playing it, i really don't understand why this game is getting so bad 
 scores. despite a few minor bugs, it's really great, old-school adventure game. it has got that 
 "sokalian" atmosphere that i like so much. even the menus are like in syberia. :)
  
  paradise sure looks very very nice, and it runs pretty smooth even on low-end machines like mine. 
 music background also contributes in making this game's great atmosphere. i don't agree that this 
 game is boring. what the hell do you want, if you want action, go play counter strike.
  
  story maybe isn't perfect, but it sure is very interesting and involving.
  
  the conclusion: 
 even it has some drawbacks (most of which could be resolved with some patch, which is by the way, 
 announced) i personally think that this game is what adventure games are meant to be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nit3man
Rating: 6.8
Date: May 11, 2006 9:34 am PT
Review:  I just finished the game last night. What I can say is that I am disappointed a bit because the 
 game is a bit too short, it's full of bugs and although I have a good computer it still runs pretty 
 slow in some parts of the game. I remember when I played Syberia I and II, even though I had a 
 crappier computer, it ran very smoothly. Anyway, leaving this aside, the graphics are good but 
 not as spectacular as those from Syberia, the dialogs are also pretty lame and sound is good but 
 not enough. So compared to Syberia or even Still Life, it's, I'm sorry to say it, junk.
  What I really liked was the story (Benoit still rules) , the cinematics and the fact that the puzzles 
 are smart and logic but still not too hard and because of this I was able to beat the game in a 
 few days of casual playing. At the end it's catching and addictive but you get the feeling that 
 it's not finished work. The big downside remains the bugs... the control is awful, too many glitches 
 and I bet a lot of players just quit the game for good after an hour of playing.
  People that have not tried Syberia, try it, it's way way better than this. For those who are fans 
 of this genre, buy it but don't expect anything fancy. It's strange how a game that is so similar 
 to Syberia from a technical point of view, made by the same man, cannot even compare to it from 
 the gameplay point of view and has so many things changed in a bad way. Hey Benoit! Why didn't 
 you keep the old Syberia path? And what's with that horrible cursor?
  I can't say that I regret playing this game, it's very good but only for true point and click, 
 sokalian adventure fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: madgino
Rating: 7
Date: May 11, 2006 1:54 am PT
Review:  This is a good adventure game but a mediocre game - generally speaking- because it's got all the 
 annoying things that draw back this genre:
  
  - stupid (not very logical) puzzles: eg. I have to fill the jar with water, there is water on almoust 
 every scene but it can be done only on one of these. or: I have to walk to a specific scene to 
 trigger some action, but nothing logic makes you go there, you just have to go in every scene available 
 to find on which one they think to put it.
  
  - no hints on what to do next, no 'extra' action- if you are not in the right spot than there is 
 nothing else to do (interesting or not interesting like discussing with someone else etc) and also 
 you get no help on where is the next right thing.
  
  - outdated graphics - this looks worse than syberia (my opinion) . I've played games that looked 
 better than this in the last 5 years; this is unforgivable.
  
  - strange ugly sounds? - eg. when she dreams ... I had to lower down the volume because I couldn't 
 stand it (never happend before)
  
  - where is the fun? they put some exotic place / story in there but it's not very attractive
 
  
  - minor bugs: strange moves from characters, subtitle problems
  
  When I finished the first chapter I was already bored. I didn't finish the game yet but I don't 
 know if I'll do. I hope Dreamfall it's better than this.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: virumor
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 8, 2006 3:25 am PT
Review:  One could call this game a "Syberia in Africa" (although an "Amerzone-Syberia" hybrid would be 
 more accurate) as it's very similar to Syberia in almost every aspect : same storyline (a lone 
 woman on a quest through a mysterious land with an enigmatic sidekick) , same sounds (in fact, a 
 lot of the voice actors of Syberia have returned) , same graphics (including the fixed 800x600 resolution) , 
 same inventory-based puzzles, and same gameplay (point & click) .
  
  Suffice to say if you liked the Syberia series, you'll likely love this game as well, just don't 
 expect too much new from this game - the only truly new element that sets it apart from Syberia 
 are parts in 3D where you control the leopard, but these are to few and too short to really stand 
 out, let alone be memorable.
  
  The only real gripes I have with the game is that it is very short (shorter than Syberia) and the 
 ending, which is very abrupt and unsatifsfying - especially since Benot Sokal did not plan on 
 making a sequel for this game. 
  
  Unlike Syberia, Paradise's storyline is a tragedy which definitely reflects in its awkward ending. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ernelson1976
Rating: 5.3
Date: May 7, 2006 4:35 am PT
Review:  This will likely be an unpopular review, but I think I've got to write it anyway. Paradise is simply 
 not a very good adventure game. And while I'm sure some adventure game fanatics will find it entertaining, 
 it fails to provide the kind of immersive experience one looks for in games from this genre.
  
  The game looks very dated. Perhaps the game suffers from having been released so close in time 
 to Dreamfall, whose presentation really does move the genre forward (a point which I wish I had 
 highlighted more in my Dreamfall review even more now that I have played Paradise) . The graphics 
 are locked in very low resolution, and are blurry and undetailed compared to other recent adventure 
 games. While the character models are in 3d, they look flat and uninspired. Animation is jerky 
 and unrealistic. Some genres can get away with this, but adventure games are supposed to be immersive, 
 and all of these things add up to a game that seems to continually kick you out of the game universe.
 
  
  The game universe -- where to begin. Benoit Sokal's Syberia series was not my favorite, although 
 I found it entertaining (if a bit odd for my taste) . Paradise seems to be a rehash of a lot of 
 warmed up leftovers from Syberia and Syberia 2-- things Sokal and his team didn't use there (because 
 they weren't that great?) and dumped into this game. There are flashes of creativity, but they 
 seem dragged down into a world which simply doesn't make sense, and which appears disjointed. Some 
 games carry this off well (like the aforementioned Dreamfall) , but this game fails for some reason, 
 and the world seems less than fully realized.
  
  The dialogue is juvenile, disjointed, and boring. Sorry to say it, but it is true. Dialogue should 
 feel natural (again, see Dreamfall as an excellent example) and characters should seem to be responding 
 to you. Instead, this game seems to put advancing the plot as more important than the characters 
 responding realistically to what is said. Even in fantasy adventure games, you need to have some 
 touchstone in the dialogue to root the game. In short, the writing is attrocious.
  
  While the main character is voiced well enough, the other character voices are simply ridiculous. 
 Everything is sing-songy. You want to laugh (and not in a good way) at most of the minor characters 
 in this game every time they open their mouths.
  
  The story is similarly ridiculous. This is not necessarily a bad thing, as the game does have moments 
 where one can almost see what the developers had in mind. But for the most part the game doesn't 
 have a reasonable plot. It begins with the cliche of all cliches for adventure games -- the character 
 with amnesia. Please. Anyone who has played Sokal's other games will immediately recognize characters 
 from other games. Not that these are the same characters, simply the same personalities, relationships, 
 etc. in new packages. You'll even recognize slightly reconfigured stock plot points from other 
 Sokal games.
  
  In the end, Paradise feels like a Syberia retread, with many of the same characters, plot points, 
 emotions, relationships, etc. And while adventure game developers seem to be fascinated with women 
 protagonists these days, they manage to make them all the same. Even the main character in Paradise 
 becomes a parody of women leads in adventure games. This doesn't happen with male characters in 
 adventure games! Come on, now there's a lot of ground to explore here, guys! Come up with a new 
 woman lead that is original! The lead character in Paradise is even following the same "in search 
 of a unique leadership calling" that was the core of Syberia!
  
  The only thing going for Paradise is the puzzles, which are really only mediocre. They're not difficult 
 by any stretch of the imagination, but they will keep you moderately entertained. That is, if you 
 can stand the retread cliches, bad voice acting and atrocious graphics.
  
  Again, I ask -- why do adventure gamers settle for such lousy storytelling? Why do we allow developers 
 to get away with shoveling us such thin gruel? The adventure genre is supposed to be about good 
 stories. We used to have them. Limited graphics aside, those older games provided great experiences. 
 This game is not one of them.
  
  But at least it doesn't crash. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jupiter2
Rating: 10
Date: May 4, 2006 4:26 pm PT
Review:  paradise is really beatiful game!! characters are good, puzzles are hard and not boring, good exotic 
 locations, amazin story. game play is awesom, good game for syberia fans. everything make sens, 
 video scenes are really good. i think this adventure game is better than syberia2. everything works 
 in this game, i recommend to buy this game for everyone. amizing amezing amezing amizing amezing 
 amezing amizing amezing amezingamizing amezing amezing amizing amezing amezing amizing amezing 
 amezing amizing amezing amezingamizing amezing amezing amizing amezing amezing amizing amezing 
 amezing amizing amezing amezingamizing amezing amezing amizing amezing amezing amizing amezing 
 amezing amizing amezing amezingamizing amezing amezing 
::::::

::::::
UserName: licenturion2
Rating: 7
Date: May 4, 2006 12:54 am PT
Review:  As an adventure fan I was very pleased to read that award winning adventure creator Benoit Sokal 
 was working with his new company 'White Birds Production' on a new adventure called paradise.
 
  
  After reading all the previews and watching all the screenshots I saw it all looked a lot like 
 Syberia, the 2 previous excellent adventures of Benoit Sokal. So I wondered: will it be better 
 that the Syberia saga?
  
  Well you want a quick answer then the answer is 'no, Syberia is better'.
  1) Story
  The most 
 important thing of an adventure game is story. You take control of the character Ann Smith, a young 
 explorer who's plain is shot down by rebels. After the crash she's taken to the hospital and when 
 she's fully recovered they lock her up in a harem. Form then on the story starts...
  The only problem with the story is that it starts really slowly. The first story relevant dialog 
 occurs after more than one hour playing time. So the first hour you are just puzzling without much 
 storyline. From the moment you leave the harem the storyline kicks finally in and it's a good story 
 although the end sequence is very abrupt. So the bottomline is that the story is good but not as 
 great as Syberia. The story lacks a lot of emotion and you don't get attached to any of the character 
 because every character hasn't a lot to say and most of them don't have a personality. Most of 
 the time characters are just there because they need to reveal a bit of the story or they need 
 to do or give you something to solve a puzzle. You don't go visiting some characters over and over 
 again as in Syberia, so you don't get attached to them. 
  
  2) Puzzles
  Another important things is the puzzle department and I must say the game succeeds quite well here. 
 All the puzzles are story relevant and well thought out. The puzzles go from controlling mechanical 
 machines, to climbing walls, to avoiding strange animals. There are a lot of different puzzles 
 and it nevers get repetive. My only complaint is that some puzzles are based on hotspot searching 
 and they are quite annoying. Because the hotspots are sometimes very very small. Other than that, 
 puzzles are great. The puzzles are much more difficult than Syberia (which is a good thing) and 
 easier that Myst (which is also a good thing)
  
  3) Graphics
  Like all other Benoit Sokal games, this game is also made with Virtools which means all the graphics 
 are prerendered. All the environments are large and very beautiful. Such beautiful hand crafted 
 graphics are prettier than the latest 3D engines. My only complaint is the consistency. Most of 
 the time there is a lot of movement onscreen such as rain, falling leaves, moving water but other 
 times when you are in mine-area there isn't any movement at all on all the screens. This gives 
 me the impression of 'unpolished areas'...
  
  4) Sound
  Scince I was a huge fan of Syberia I remember a lot of the voices in that game. So I noticed that 
 Paradise features the same voice actors as Syberia. In fact the voice of the main character is 
 the same as Kate Walker in Syberia with a higher pitch. So all the voice work is top notch.
  Also the background music is very good. It very melancholic music and fits the atmosphere perfectly
 
  
  5) Value
  Because this game is an adventure game it means that when you finished the story, you finished 
 it. There's only one ending and there are no secrets, unlockables etc. So this game is one time 
 experience. I also want to note the the game has A LOT OF BUGS. It seems like the game is released 
 to early. Sometimes my main character didn't want to move to the next screen. Object in the inventory 
 are labled as 'object-125x78a' instead of the good names and sometimes you can't read story relevant 
 documents in your inventory. Also the OK button doesn't work always in the movieviewer so it's not 
 always possible to watch movies you previously unlocked.
  
  Another big problem is that the game is very laggy especially the menus. The main menu and the 
 ingame menu are stuttering everytime. I've tested it on 2 high end pc's and it gave the same problems. 
 This is a simple adventure game with prerendered backgrounds (bitmaps) so I expect great performance 
 on a normal pc. This is not 'Oblivion'!
  
  6) Conclusion
  All together Paradise isn't a bad game although the game is far form polished. If you played Syberia 
 you will enjoy the fun puzzles and great visuals but when its over you'll find that Syberia is 
 much better. If you've never played Syberia, skip this one and play Syberia. The story is much 
 better and the game is much more polished.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mbcfdude
Rating: 7.7
Date: May 7, 2006 12:38 pm PT
Review:  I'm still early on in the game but find it really satisfying. It's a point-and-click adventure 
 game where the point-and-click (or double-click to run) moves your character throughout this stunningly 
 beautiful world. The visual would not be nearly as great without the fantastic stereo surround 
 sound it delivers. Feeling fully immersed in the game the fun of exploration wears off as you try 
 and figure out who you are and what you're doing there. 
  
  The movie intro leads you to believe you're the daughter of an ailing king that you were on your 
 way to but were shot down in a mysterious jungle. Awakening in a strange place with amnesia.
  
  The only way to advance in the game is to talk to people and figure out who you are and solve 
 simple to complex puzzles. There is a great deal of relief about playing this game because you 
 don't die in this game - and the game won't let you mess a puzzle up so you'd have to reload a 
 previous save and start over. That relief is instead replaced by some pretty bizarre looking machines 
 you'd have to interact with in just the right way to make it all work. It's not obvious at first 
 but as you're solving the puzzle it becomes more clear what the machines do until you get that 
 "ahhh..." moment right when you solve it.
  
  Pro's: 
  - Beautiful stunning visuals both in game play and game video
  - Amazing sound, not intrusive 
 on the game play and sometimes helpful
  - Ease of interaction with objects - this is a mouse only game.
  - Challenging to the point of 
 frustration
  - The feeling that you'll be playing this beautiful game a long time.
  
  Con's:
  - No in-game hints (could be in the pro category)
  - Only plays at 800 x 600 resolution
 
  - Sometimes what you're looking for is very small and difficult to see.
  - You MUST mouse over everything - sometimes what you're looking for or what you could interact 
 with is in a tree or above out of what I would call just outside of your characters expected range 
 of movement.
  - A BIG CON for me is that it doesn't seem possible to adjust the Gamma on this game. Some scenes 
 are very dark and it makes it impossible to view in a well lit room. I hope they introduce a fix 
 for this.
  
  Overall, this game is worth buying if you like a traditional adventure game with great puzzles 
 and a beautiful rich atmosphere with audio and visual. You control the character (third person) , 
 you move around the expansive field of play.
  
  If you do buy it, I'd suggest visiting the ubisoft community board for tips.. you'll be stuck fairly 
 quick but I attribute a part of this to learning what the game is going to throw at you for difficulty. 
 Kudos to Benoit Sokal, the award winning game designer for giving us this game. 
  
  ** Note: I have finished playing this game and have revised my review. In all I'd say I spent about 
 20 hours playing this game to get to the finish. I did use the message boards when thouroughly 
 stuck but there really isn't enough content in this game to make it long lasting. I also got the 
 real sense that time and money ran out on the end of the game and it really hurt the abrupt ending 
 of the game. Not only that but the characters acted oddly in the end.
  
  On top of this I have (as well as many other in the boards) discovered numerous game bugs like 
 game freezes, lost mouse controls which sometimes makes it impossible to save your progress before 
 quitting. 
  
  In the end I didn't feel the money spent was worth the gameplay or experience. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
