-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Pariah
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/pariah/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 One of the few games to make a grenade launcher useful.
 Mapmaker is robust and accessible to the average player.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Boring weapons.
 Inept enemies.
 Difficult-to-follow story.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: May  6, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.3
Critic Score: 6.8, 27 Review (s)
User Score: 7.0, 1,211 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Groove Games
Developer: Digital Extremes
Genre: Sci-Fi First-Person...
Date:     May 3, 2005
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The game simply can't make the act of firing a weapon interesting, and this plagues every mode in 
 it. 

  Though the overused backdrop of World War II has probably surpassed it recently, science fiction 
 and first-person shooting still go hand in hand. The near-future settings of many action games 
 let developers both insert all manner of laser guns into them and spin tales of futures gone awry. 
 Digital Extremes' Pariah is just such a game, giving users access to a small arsenal of impossible 
 weaponry, while having the story take place in a war-torn world of the future. While the backdrop 
 may still have some life left in it, Pariah's combat, story, and weapons loadout are all positively 
 lifeless, making the game feel like nothing more than an also-ran shooter that barely stands on 
 its own, let alone stands up to the genre's best.  

          The weapons in Pariah are seriously underwhelming.     

  The story in Pariah is convoluted 
 and does a terrible job of keeping you in the loop. You play as a doctor named Jack Mason, and 
 the game opens with Mason on a transport ship, escorting a mysterious woman who's been frozen in 
 stasis. You're flying over the Northwest, which is enemy territory that's under control of prisoners, 
 when missiles blast into the side of your ship, sending you crashing to the ground below. The woman 
 escapes, and now it's up to you to find her. And apparently, she's toting some sort of virus around 
 in her system that, as luck would have it, ends up getting transferred to you within the first 
 couple of minutes of the game. While it starts out with a reasonable and potentially interesting 
 premise, Pariah barely explains itself, so you're never too certain about who's who, who your enemies 
 are, and what, exactly, you're doing.  

  Pariah has a slow, methodical pace to it that's reminiscent of Halo due to the way Mason's life 
 meter works. It starts out with four blocks of health in it. When you're hit, some of that health 
 is chipped away. But if you back off, any partially filled blocks will eventually regenerate. Restoring 
 full blocks requires you to switch to a healing tool, which requires ammo, like any other weapon. 

  The weapons in Pariah seriously lack punch. On top of that, the ammo that's in the clip of a weapon 
 is not treated as part of your overall reserve. So if your magazine is half full but your reserve 
 ammo is full, you'll have to manually switch to a weapon and then reload it before you can collect 
 the ammo. This is sort of sloppy, and it just makes picking up items a hassle, since you'll always 
 want to make sure you're as fully loaded as possible. As for the guns themselves, the basic assault 
 rifle is ineffective, the plasma gun feels utterly weak, and the shotgun equivalent is mostly harmless. 
 The sniper rifle is OK for taking out targets from a distance, though the game doesn't give you 
 many opportunities to put it to good use. The other two weapons are explosive, literally. The rocket 
 launcher takes forever to reload, making it about as effective as the sniper rifle. The grenade 
 launcher, however, comes in handy, especially if you're good at properly arcing grenades toward 
 your targets. But it only becomes interesting after you upgrade it.  

  Aside from your melee attack, each one of your weapons, including your healing tool, can be upgraded 
 three times by collecting pickups that are scattered around, usually in somewhat out-of-the-way 
 locations. You can upgrade your weapons whenever you like from the radial weapon-select menu, and 
 you can essentially spend your upgrade points as you see fit. Upgrading usually increases the amount 
 of reserve ammo you can hold, but it also does things like add heat-seeking functionality to your 
 rockets, in addition to providing enhanced vision for the sniper rifle and reduced recoil for the 
 assault rifle. The best upgrade, though, is for the grenade launcher, which lets you use a remote 
 detonator to blow up your grenades whenever you see fit. This is handy for taking out airborne 
 targets or for just tossing a grenade and waiting for enemies to cluster before taking them all 
 out. You can also hop into the occasional vehicle throughout the game, which serves only to reinforce 
 the "Halo, but sort of broken" feel.  

  The enemy behavior in Pariah seems to be governed by the flip of a coin. Heads, the enemies will 
 rush you and try to punch you out. Tails, they'll run backward at full speed in search of cover... and 
 they'll just sort of keep running. You can give chase, sure. But if you just stand still, they'll 
 eventually run right back up on you, only to repeat the process. Their fast movement does occasionally 
 make them difficult targets to hit, though, and when you get into tight quarters, their accuracy 
 is good at cutting you down quickly, even on the easiest difficulty setting. Design-wise, the enemies 
 are a boring group of clones. Shooting them in their helmets causes the helmets to pop or smash 
 off, and they rarely have any interesting death animations.  

  The rest of Pariah looks pretty good. With a mixture of wide-open outdoor areas and vaguely futuristic 
 indoor environments, the Halo influence really stands out. But Pariah's got a good frame rate if 
 you're running on a PC that meets or exceeds the system requirements. Also, little touches like 
 good-looking water and decent explosion effects make the game look good overall, especially at 
 higher resolutions. The sharper graphics make the PC version of Pariah a bit better than its Xbox 
 counterpart.  

  A big part of why Pariah's weapons feel so underpowered is the game's sound. The weapon-fire effects 
 just don't have anything behind them, making even your rocket launcher blasts sound wimpy. You'll 
 run into some music here and there, and it'll interactively ratchet up and down when you encounter 
 enemies. The game has its share of speech, as well. Enemy troops tend to repeat themselves way 
 too much during play, and the voices in the cutscenes are pretty uninspiring.  

          The game's vehicles don't steer very well.     

  Beyond the single-player campaign 
 you'll find a pretty standard multiplayer component for up to 32 players, though at the time of 
 this writing, there aren't many people playing the game online. The matchmaking is done well, and 
 it is similar to Xbox Live in that you can choose to jump right into a game via an "instant action" 
 button, or dig a little deeper by using a series of server filters, bots, and a mapmaker. The online 
 support is functional, letting users play deathmatch, team deathmatch, capture the flag, and so 
 on. You can also play against bots, but they aren't much smarter than the single-player enemies. 
 Furthermore, the weak weapons make for poor combat, so there's no good reason to play this game's 
 multiplayer unless you get way into the mapmaker. The mapmaker is surprisingly easy to use and 
 fully featured. You can raise and lower land quickly and easily, and dropping prefabricated objects 
 around the map doesn't take much time at all. Unfortunately, you'll have to play Pariah on these 
 maps, which sort of renders them moot offerings.  

  There aren't many differences between the PC and Xbox versions of Pariah other than the obvious 
 ones, but these things do help the PC version to stand out a bit from its inferior console counterpart. 
 The PC version looks better, has better control, and retails for ten dollars less. On the other 
 side, the cutscenes are more compressed on the PC, making the Xbox cutscenes look a little sharper. 

  Pariah seems to be built on the concept of "if you liked Halo, then try this one out." But the 
 game simply can't make the act of firing a weapon interesting, and this plagues every mode in it. 
 When you toss in cutscenes that don't move the story along in a useful way, you've got a game that 
 doesn't live up to the standards of the genre. The PC has certainly done better than Pariah, so 
 there's no need to spend time trudging through its uninteresting adventure.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (46 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: baazigar_2000
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 23, 2008 5:00 am PT
Review:  At first I was thinking several times... what in the world am I doing by buying this game.... it 
 all seemed far too familar to the FPSs I had bought previously.... same gun-toting procedures, same 
 running around/avoiding bullets, same rescue missions..... of course, with the added joys of vehicle 
 conrols, better graphics and varying environments..... but I was quite wrong in that perspective.....
 
  
  
  There is something about Pariah that just seems to make you play it... whether its the industrial 
 environment withini greenland, with hugh girders and buildings... or the fact that you can wield 
 sufficient (if not awe-inspiring) weaponary....
  
  The plot is somewhat iffy, in that I have not been able to follow it propely (mainly becauise I 
 was glued to screen so much during gameplay) but all I have gathered is that theres this job-dreary 
 doc, who is either on call, or off home to his teatime, and his transport vehicle crashes somehow, 
 into a valley of unknown contents..... apparently a prison of some sort!!!! But thers also someone 
 alongside him, namely (a patient?) called Karina... no not Karina Kapoor.... just Karina.....
  
  So, to get out of this hell hole they have to devise numerous plans to evade the gun-toting 
 goofballs roaming the realms.... and some are so goofy in their speeches, that you think 'hey man, 
 stop repeating yourself with those silly words!!!!' Hopefully, a splash of bullets should put them 
 in their proper place... which should be six feet under.....
  
  talking about six feet under, once an ememy is down, he simple fades away... into the ground mosty 
 of the time... hmmm.... i wonder if they are simply one of those human-like spooks from the Nosgothic 
 realms (see the legacy of Kain series!!!)
  
  Also... check out the arty front cover of the box and game manual... the hero of the game seems so 
 awkwardly-faced, that you think 'what in the world?'... maybe his facial features are mushed up 
 due to his hardcore comittment to work.... but, thanks to games beautiful graphics, he looks far 
 more than a pretty face during the cut scenes!!!!! 
  
  Overall, the graphics and gameplay combined make this a truelly engaging game to play.... true, 
 there are not many weapons on hand to create a fireworks display, but what you have is sufficient 
 enough.... reminding you of those Perfect Dark (N64) days, with a bit of Quake/Project Snowblind 
 thrown in for good measure!!! The voice acting is somewhat ok.... and the lips actually work somewhat 
 in sync with the characters.... the first few stages are a feast for the eyes, and I assume the 
 forthcoming ones are good too... though they may a bit more challenging, as per norm.....
  
  This is a good game, and if you havent already played it, its worth a try, espcially for those 
 who are PC FPS fans. Just dont spend too much time looking at the front cover or manual cover....!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grantcorp
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 23, 2008 9:10 am PT
Review:  Pariah is one of those soulless glitterfests that attempt to compensate for lack of purpose with 
 special effects. And while it relies on well-trodden FPS-cliches it still doesn't get them quite 
 right.
  
  At the center of the plot is some kind of virus, but exactly what it does, where it comes from 
 or why isn't really obvious. Instead you trod around a broken world painted in staple sci-fi cyan, 
 orange and grey, being railroaded through pointless assignments. Disable this turret, open this 
 door, and so on.
  
  Exactly where you go or why isn't obvious, you'll have to make do with the fact that there are 
 people out to get you. Soon you are in the thick of some kind of factional war, only this time 
 all the factions are against you. You're a pariah alright.
  
  The gamespot review already explained the serious lack of oomph in the weapons as well as the frustrating 
 reload/ammo issues. Add to that stupid features like severe motion blur when you attempt to run 
 and an inexplicable watery effect on your vision whenever you carry the plasma gun. Exploding barrels, 
 repeating taunts, recycled ambient sound effects and empty set-pieces such as dams and prisons 
 add to this stale impression.
  
  The game really takes the cake when the inevitable plot twist comes up near the end, this time 
 the instigator of said twist is you! Suddenly for no reason it is revealed to you that you yourself 
 have a personal agenda, only you played through the entire game without knowing it. This really 
 isn't Total Recall.
  
  Overall you can get a few hours of decent gaming out of it, but I cannot think of a single reason 
 as to why it should be endorsed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Muldervayne
Rating: 2
Date: Sep 20, 2007 6:04 am PT
Review:  First of all... Flickering textures can be seen eveywhere. The game lacks visual quality. The sound 
 is very bad. Different gun sound effects and environment's mute each other when more sounds are 
 processed. The AI is so dumb that you'll find so many position where the AI simply won't react 
 to your actions. Physics is awfull, especially the part where vehicles appear. The wheels from 
 the terrain bugs move chaotically while the user tries to go backwards. Objectives are so dull 
 and simple that you don't even understand the story... Objectives are so simple that a 3 year old 
 child would get bored in front of the monitor (open the gate, follow Karina, release the bridge, 
 and so on) .
  This game is such a wreck... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trafalet
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 16, 2007 12:31 pm PT
Review:  The game was released two years ago therefore is not too old. The graphics are ok even now in 2007. But 
 that doesn't matter. There are many big issues, maybe too many. The weapons are totally inefficient, 
 which is very frustrating for an FPS . During the game you'll often have the impression that the 
 enemies have too many HP points. Those weapon upgrades are quite interesting but unfortunately not 
 enough to save the game from mediocrity. The story is imposible to follow; you don't have the slightest 
 idea why are those guys chasing you and trying to kill you. This game had potential but it failed 
 awfully bad. Maybe the patches will make this game playable but until then ... pity. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JMBS_SGC
Rating: 5.4
Date: Jul 27, 2007 5:33 am PT
Review:  One of the main structural points behind games whether fps or rpg ect is the the plot and storyline. 
 The storyline behind Pariah might have dense and as beautifully created as a novel, but somehow 
 along the way the creators forgot the vital point of telling the gamer of what the heck was actually 
 going on.
  
  I started the game with a slight feeling of humor at the thought of controlling a doctor wielding 
 rocket launchers and assault rifles (at least they were original) . From there you begin the long 
 roller coaster of confusion and shooting vicious looking thugs. But as you progress you slowly 
 become more and more bewildered at the apparent lack of information and at one point you are doublecrossed 
 by a character that you barely know or even recognise. At another point near the end of the game 
 you walk straight into a full out war, who's fighting the war? what sides are involved? whats the 
 war about? but sadly i never found out. Even of the main characters Karina is poorly described 
 and usually disappears for random periods of time to reappear without any explanation. The only 
 plot points are the sporadic and usually confusing cutscenes that more often than not leave the 
 player frsutated at the storyline that has more twists and turn than the Di Vinci Code.
  
  But all that aside Pariah creates a quite beautiful environment for you to get confused in, its 
 wide, large outdoor environments are nicely textured and detailed and during the prison missions 
 the designers manage to capture the essence of a futuristic city burning during a war which you 
 could almost forget you were playing Pariah and imagine you were somewhere in Halo. One of its 
 good points is it physics engine which allows for rag-doll physics as well as the destruction of 
 various bits of scenery.
  
  The weapons although not terribly underpowered they arn't they earth-shattering weapons of mass 
 destruction you would hope for. The only time the weapons really become worth using is when you 
 fully upgrade all its aspects.
  
  All in all Pariah fails to live up to expectations and falls into the category of mediocre, which 
 is very disappointing as it easily could have been a great game if it had cut down on its twisted 
 plot and buffed up its weaponry.
  
  If you want a more detailed and technical breakdown of Pariah then look up the gamespot review, 
 but it your looking for an exciting, enthralling and deep fps then look elsewhere because you will 
 be sorely disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hexagram244
Rating: 2.7
Date: Jul 24, 2007 12:11 pm PT
Review:  From reading previews, watching the trailer and in game footage clips Pariah comes accross as a 
 blockbuster first person shooter, which is typically a mixture of plagiarism from predecessing 
 first person shooters and hopefully some original ideas &amp; twists.
  
  This unfortuntly is not the case, i only played the first few levels of this game which were so 
 bad it forced me to turn it off, it was awful!
  
  And as my review deck states, it is more of a mediocre mod, rather than a full game...
  
  Im 
 just writing this review as a warning not to purchase this game, it really is a waste of your money, 
 Pariah is broken &amp; unoriginal and not worthy enough to be a stand alone game on game shop shelves. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cerza
Rating: 2.6
Date: May 29, 2007 1:17 pm PT
Review:  Given all the recent fanfare and attention Groove and Digital Extremes new FPS has received, one 
 would think that it's worth checking out. Unfortunately, this next-gen gem powered by the latest 
 Unreal engine is better left on the stores shelf and not on your shelf at home. This is because 
 the reality is that Pariah is just another bland, uninteresting, and often broken mediocre shooter 
 that takes place in an over used and very uninspired setting. The story of Pariah takes place on 
 Earth in the year 2520 and focuses around a doctor name Jack Mason, a girl who is infected with 
 a mysterious virus, and then of course at the heart of the matter is the virus itself. The game 
 begins with Jack transporting the infected woman, who we learn is in a cryostasis, and has been 
 for some time, over a war torn and extremely dangerous region. As luck would have it, Jacks transport 
 is shot down and the crash frees the infected woman from her slumber. Then the hunt begins. The 
 woman runs off and its your job to find her and take her back with you. This chase winds up being 
 the game in a nutshell, as you are either running from guys that you have no idea why you fighting 
 while you have the girl, or running after said guys in search of the girl.
  
  Through out the game, and even in the end, everything works out pretty stereotypically in the sarcastic 
 sense of God, its not like I didn't see that coming. This leaves you wondering why you spent that 
 money on this would have been of a shooter, instead of something far tastier and more worthwhile 
 like a gallon of ice cream.
  
  The character models in the game are designed in every stereotypical futuristic way imaginable, 
 minus the shoulder pads. They are bland and uninteresting to look at and fight, and to make matters 
 worse don't even have any interesting death animations. The best you get is either a flop down 
 dead animation when you shoot them to death or a fly up in the air spinning animation when you 
 finally manage to hit them with an explosive. Combined with an AI that appears to be literally 
 governed by the flip of a coin, the game play experience is about as delicious as cheap cat food 
 and makes about as much sense as an episode of Family Guy or American Dad. Half the time the enemy 
 will either move around erratically shooting everywhere in your general direction, or run right 
 into you or another bad guy, get stuck, and then do nothing at all. Thanks to this feature nothing 
 plays out the same way twice and each time makes about as little sense as the last. Its fairly 
 safe to say that most players will attribute somewhere to around 50% of their progress through 
 this fiasco to pure luck, amid the constant confusion and frustration.
  
  The weapon selection of Pariah is equally bland when compared to its models and story. You get 
 everything that has ever been in a sci-fi game, except a pistol or weapon with decent accuracy, 
 in grossly underpowered form. The one original weapon you will receive is the one that heals you. 
 Instead of issuing med-packs like other and run and gun games do, Pariah gives you get a weapon 
 called The Healing Tool, which uses it's own ammo, generally med-packs that drop from guys you 
 kill, and each shot restores one of the half dozen possible squares that make up your life (can 
 you say Riddick) . While this is something new, it needlessly wastes precious, time; not to mention 
 blurs your vision to the point that you cant see anything when you use it. All in all, it would 
 have been much better if that med-pack the guy you just killed dropped simply restored your health, 
 as opposed to acted as ammo for a seemingly useless weapon in my already over filled inventory. 
 Pariah attempts to pay homage to Deus Ex with its weapon upgrade system, yet all upgrading dose 
 is bring your weapons up to the level they should have started at. The upgrade tokens, hidden throughout 
 the vast winding levels, that are needed to bring your guns up to snuff are by no means generally 
 accessible, since most of them are in highly askew out of the way locals. Worse than this is the 
 system from which you change your firearms. As opposed to cycling through your weapons, or pausing 
 the game and allowing you to flip through a submenu, in Pariah you must bring up the submenu without 
 pause to the constant combat you will find yourself in. To attempt to make up for the first error 
 of not pausing the game and wanting to keep you in the action , the weapons in the submenu are 
 skewed around in a circular fashion, to get the weapon of your choice move the analogue stick to 
 the prospective position and release the button that brought up the menu. This isn't that bad for 
 those weapons located at the north, south, east, and west positions of the circle, since all it 
 takes is a quick flip, and a few seconds lost with some practice, to use them. For everything else 
 however, you will only be able to get the desired weapon with mild to moderate frustration, and 
 a senselessly countless amount of play time wasted. This system really takes its toll and hits 
 the hardest when you need that grenade or rocket launcher now, rather than in a few minutes, to 
 take out the heavily armored trooper, or riot guard, who just spawned three feet from you in the 
 middle of your current fire fight. Changing weapons during combat will result in your death an 
 innumerable amount of times during the game, none of which are close to valid or necessary.
  
  The environments of Pariah are massive and graphically gorgeous. Almost everything is interactive 
 in the sense that you can blow it up should you acquire a big enough bomb. Unfortunately, due to 
 a lack of interactive lighting and interfaces, these lushly painted canvases feel extremely shallow, 
 and in most cases devoid of life. Also it should be noted that while there are inside and outside 
 environments, they are nothing more than glorified corridor crawls. The only thing changing is 
 the size of the corridor and amount of available cover. However, there are some wide open spaces 
 in the game, and when you arrive at them you will most assuredly be looking for the corridors and 
 ditches that run along their sides, because venturing into them is certain death.
  
  The audio in Pariah is absolutely atrocious. Everything sounds low and underpowered save the frag 
 rifle, which Pariahs take on the ever so classic shot gun. The dialogue is flat, uninspired, and 
 spoken by voice actors who are equally so. On top of it all is the taunts you will hear from your 
 enemy. The constant we're coming for ya doc, which recycles and tries to sound like some underlying 
 menace during the game, only serves to be extremely obnoxious. Also, the classic taunt of doe ray 
 me fah so la ti doe that is shouted at you, primarily in the games beginning, can only make one 
 wonder just what substances the writers were abusing when they wrote Pariah's script, and how little 
 sleep they were running on.
  
  Pariah has a multiplayer component to it so that you and up to three friends can each experience, 
 and share in the pain of, on one console, or suffer with up to twelve other unfortunate souls online 
 or through a lan. If that wasnt enough punishment, there is a co-op mode for the story as well, 
 which all your unsuspecting victim has to do join in is pick up his/her respective controller, 
 press start to sign in, and then the torture can begin. The standard multiplayer supports a variety 
 of game modes and is considerably better than the single player portion of the game. Sadly, it's 
 also plagued by everything that is in the single player portion, and so is kept far from perfection. 
 Following in the footsteps of Free Radicals Timesplitters franchise, Pariah comes complete with 
 its own multiplayer map maker. The map maker allows you to create your own custom torture chambers, 
 literally from the ground up, for what ever type of multiplayer action you feel like experiencing 
 at the hands of this dominatrix. The map maker is by far the best feature of Pariah, because it 
 allows you control the horrible devices that doing all these painful things to you, allowing you 
 to mutilate yourself at your own speed at your leisure. It is incredibly simple and easy to use, 
 and the amount of creativity it allows is endless. Now if only you could play those maps you've 
 created with a good game, such as Unreal Tournament or Counter Strike, then this would have been 
 a worth while feature.
  
  There isn't much difference between the PC and Xbox versions of Pariah. The problems that plague 
 the Xbox version are blatantly apparent on the PC, though thanks to the higher resolution of a 
 computer monitor, Pariah looks quite a bit better on the PC than it dose on its console counter 
 part, minus the scenes and cinemas, which have been compressed and actually look worse on the PC 
 than they do on the Xbox. However, since the PC version comes with Starforce, it makes recommending 
 Pariah to any PC FPS enthusiast impossible. The more accurate controls of the keyboard and mouse 
 make combat and aiming not as hectic and frustrating on the PC as they are on the Xbox, though 
 they aren't of such a higher caliber that you should write home about them anyway. All in all, 
 its a shame Pariah is such a flop, especially given the amount of money that was invested into 
 it and the potential it had, as well as the high reputation of the studio from which it came. However, 
 in the end Pariah serves as a stunning example for what not to do when making a FPS and how graphics 
 aren't everything in a game. Pariah also shows how there is no set formula for how to make a great 
 game regardless of how many Hollywood professionals are hired and/or how much money is thrown at 
 the project. Pariahs story and script were done by Hollywood script writers. Unfortunately, it 
 would seem that every bad sci-fi writer in the biz was on Pariah's payroll, since in the end all 
 Pariah is nothing more than bad sci-fi story that comes off as half assed in most respects, which 
 is best left forgotten if you played it and passed by if you haven't. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Homes225
Rating: 6.5
Date: May 1, 2007 5:13 pm PT
Review:  Story: Its the future. You have a gun. You have a girl. You wanna kill.
  
  Graphics: Unreal Engine, messed up psychics sometimes, Average Graphics
  
  Audio: Nothing special, 
 Voice Overs aren't the best
  
  Missions: A Handful, spread out by 4 chapters each chapters lasts a few hours
  
  Features: 
 Upgradeable weapons
  
  Weapons: Upgradeable
  
  The Good: The cool portable Health gadget
  
  The Bad: A. I. kinda stand there.
  
  The Ugly: 
 Difficulty= None.
  
  Replay Ability: Short to None
  
  The Bottom Line: An average shooter with the unreal engine that is fun for a few hours but doesn't 
 do anything to stand out in the world of FPSes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yeolderellik
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 30, 2007 3:53 am PT
Review:  The game looks and feels great if you set all the graphic options to very high on 1024x768 resolution; 
 it uses a modified version of the Unreal engine just to show how much potential this engine has 
 to offer.
  Basically I am a fan of good quality games (graphic quality) , but it also has a nice background 
 story, not to mention that a sequel should be considered (what will happen the the guy's daughter...???)
 
  
  Tested in the following computer configuration:
  - Pentium IV ~ 2.6 Ghz
  - 1.3 Gb RAM
  - ATI Radeon X1550 (512 MB - AGP 8x)
  - Creative Audigy 2
  - Standard IDE HD 
 (7.200 r. p. m.)
  
  Game configuration:
  - 1024 x 768 x 32 Bit
  - All graphic details set to very high 
  - Sound set to 3d hardware accelerated + EAX 2.0
  
 
  I personally recommend this game if you are a fan of Unreal Tournament (or the complete Unreal 
 saga) and also if you like nice graphics since the Unreal engine was modified to adapt a series 
 of enhancements like todays games have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trey555555
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 13, 2007 12:15 am PT
Review:  This game isnt bad as i only spent 3$ on it. it has a verry interesting story... different types 
 of weapons, but they dont show much of a difference when shot.... sound effects arent that good... i 
 wish they made them a little more clearer and more exciting... The A. I is verry awful as some will 
 just stand there and shoot a couple of times... The game will probably last about 4-5 hours... couple 
 of vehicles to use during the story mode, opening doors, little puzzles, but its mostly straight 
 forward... the game ran good throughout the whole game, no freeze ups, and there were a couple of 
 bugs here and there but nothing to inturupt gameplay... the graphics were decent, almost something 
 like half life one maybe? a little better... each weapon has its own effect of course, but they 
 all kinda just felt the same when shot... its worth playing to pass time up, especially at the price 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ToddHagen
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jan 18, 2007 8:54 am PT
Review:  As you can read in a lot of other reviews, the game has pretty good visuals that border on great. 
 I ran the program in 1600x1200 mode on a reasonable machine (3ghz) with an above average video 
 card AGP ATI x1600 - and it played stably and very well. Only stuttering was when there were too 
 many opponents onscreen and it went choppy. Kill a couple and all is well.
  
  The story is interesting and ramps pretty well at the beginning with a lot of unknowns. The story 
 feels fragmented after a while and it definitely makes me think, based on the game's length, that 
 huge sections of play and explanations (story flow) were left out and made it feel more like a 
 mishmash than a connected story.
  
  I love the weapons and the early (earth) levels. The powerup methodology - choosing where to augment 
 your weapons, etc. works well and adds a layer to the game. The sniper rifle was unusually satisfying.
 
  
  Concerning level design, I have only one major quibble - it seems that the designers put invisible 
 walls across anything they didn't want to bother with completing - making most segments terribly 
 linear. Also, any fall from a height usually results in instant death. Funny, since I can be hit 
 by 4 bullets and lose only 1 bar of health, but fall more than 6 feet and you die......
  
  Still it was fun, and an unusually ambiguous ending makes it even more unusual. So many loose ends 
 and little true resolution makes this a semi frustrating experience in terms of story. The ending 
 battle (s) are very satisfying though.
  
  Another weird thing is the lack of explanation concerning scenarios - you complete a section, talk 
 to the big bad guy, but never see him again, rather battling everyone all of a sudden, with no 
 explanation as to WHY everyone has turned against you, etc. etc.. Still fun for a couple of hours.... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gods_Son23
Rating: 7.3
Date: Nov 5, 2006 4:22 am PT
Review:  You could compare this game to HALO, which i have also played on the PC and XBOX and i actually 
 enjoyed this more. HALO is very over rated in my opinion (you seem to be shooting the same 4 monsters 
 the whole game) .
  
  Pariah while not groundbreaking is fun and to complete was challenging just to the right degreee. 
 The cons of Pariah are that the levels dont seem to differ a huge amount in environment and for 
 3 discs of installment wasn't that long.
  
  In summary, there is nothing extraordinary here but i do think its underrated and if you are a 
 FPS fan i don't see why this isn't worth a shot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Corrosion85
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 3, 2006 9:32 am PT
Review:  After reading all the bad reviews I decided to wait untill the game was budget priced. So I bought 
 it and started playing. At first I really liked the atmosphere, the graphics might not be as good 
 as FEAR but they are still ok. So I continued and I have to say that the story (what story?) is 
 really confusing and repetitive. But what shocked me the most was that after around 7 hours of 
 gaming it was all over. I confess that I am not the best gamer and I played it through on the 3rd 
 of 4 difficulity levels. I was really surprised as this was the first game ever that I would start 
 playing and finish in the same sitting! Why couldn't they make the game longer, as they really 
 had good gameplay and level ideas...
  
  I am happy I paid a budget price for the game as I would have gone mad otherwise. Since I just 
 finished SIN Episodes 1 Emergence before I just couldnt understand why Pariah did the same thing 
 by offering a game for 15-20 $ instead for full price...
  
  Still for an action fan or a fan of the Unreal universe I recommend renting it for a day or buying 
 it for a cheap price if you guys need a little entertainment. Too bad that the developers didn't 
 do more out of a game with such a great potential. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vorlon92
Rating: 5.8
Date: Sep 15, 2006 2:27 pm PT
Review:  What to say about pariah other than pick it up in a bargain bin? Well, how about the good first: 
 -The game looks great, the weapons all have three upgrade/power up slots you can utilize, once 
 you upgrade the grenade launcher it is a blast to shoot and use the remote detonator to set your 
 charge off whenever you want (use zoom while firing and you can get 7-10 grenades out before remote 
 detonating) .
  -it cost me $5
  
  The cons: there are quite a few: 1st of all there is no way to get out of cutscenes that I know 
 of, no manual save - only autosave points/waypoint saves. all of which means sometimes the game 
 likes to kill you a lot right after a cutscene and prior to reaching a save point... so guess what? 
 You get to watch the cutscene over and over and over. ugh.
  
  -it is very scripted, for example this boss will do the same thing 4 times before you can kill 
 him, etc. Really annoying boss battles.
  The game is stupidly linear and sometimes you will be outside and have this amazing forest or environment 
 all around, yet you cannot go anywhere except down the path to the next scripted area. The game 
 won't even allow you to step a few feet off the path
  -graphics settings: some of this will crash your game hard, be careful messing with these. -online 
 community is nonexistent, there were 4-6 people online both nights I logged on, 8pm cst. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: woef
Rating: 6.6
Date: Sep 5, 2006 4:45 am PT
Review:  Pariah, what about pariah should i buy this game: No try the demo first!
  Pariah is a Fast paced FPS with both singleplayer and multiplayer support.
  The game has a story, 
 but the story is very boring, so you just shoot some bad guys and in the end you win, its as simple 
 as it is.
  
  Gameplay:
  +Grenade launcher is useful
  +Weapon upgrades give the game a bit more variety and value
  +Vehicles (not that interesting 
 though)
  -Weapons lack power
  -Boring story
  -Bad AI
  -No big variety between enemies
  
  Graphics:
  +Looks decent
  +Runs decent even on a low 
 end computer
  -Looks very bright
  -Hard too identify enemies because of the brightness
  
  Sounds:
  +Overall sounds are OK
  -Weapons sound boring
  -Music is not interesting
  
 
  Value:
  +Increased value due too multiplayer support and bot matches
  +Weapon upgrades
  -Boring singleplayer campaign/story
  -Short singleplayer campaign
  -Multiplayer 
 is not that addictive
  
  Tilt:
  +Good interface
  +Easy interface for newbies
  +Some cutscenes and movies
  -Boring story
  -Unorignal story
  
  Pariah, i say play the demo 
 first.
  Bye 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vufor
Rating: 6.7
Date: Aug 16, 2006 1:37 am PT
Review:  Pariah sound good! 
  
  Well game itself not bad at all. To be honest game play a bit disappointing yu just want to get 
 from levels and see what will be at the end nothing much about storyline. You just shoot different 
 type of enemies and enemy viechles. First immpression comes out like this. 
  
  Graphics, well it is like too bright and same time annoying all polished and britghten. Had enough 
 already at 5th level. However, assorty of the weapons make game a bit interesting and fun-playe. 
 Especially when you use weapons which integrated onto the viechles. (cars, trains etc.)
  
  Just rent it, I would say. it is not worth to spend money to this game and get it. 
  
  Overall 
 view of the game not too bad. Personages and environment well designed. Especially the bases and 
 bunkers. Still to bright to pass more than 6 levels at ones. you will get really eyes blinking 
 at the end. 
  
  Upgrade stuff in game is really good immplementation, you got three for diff. type of weapons and 
 it is going to be a hell weapons. (well as this states game)
  
  Enjoy, and dont play too much at ones f your care about your eyes.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: xvramon
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 6, 2006 4:01 pm PT
Review:  the gameplay of this game is just alright nothing really new or innovative in it. IT have some 
 vehicle but they are just awfull to drive with and shoot at the same time. The graphics for this 
 game are good not hl2 or something liek that but they are not ugly at all. The sound of the weapons 
 are really not that good and the music are alright. Some few sound bugs are present but nothing 
 annoying. This game weapons are really not that good except for the grenade launcher which make 
 a nice green explosion. This game is just average and you should buy it if you want to pass time 
 like 3-4 hours on this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coolman_2006
Rating: 5.3
Date: Jul 31, 2006 1:06 am PT
Review:  Pariah is a failed attempt of making an FPS. Firstly this game is very repetitive. All you do for 
 the missions is kill enemies which have almost the worst enemy A. I I have ever seen. The graphics 
 are average and so is the level design.
  
  The gameplay is almost the same as in Unreal 2 but the weapons are boring. The weapons you have 
 are some type of machine gun, a shotgun, grenade launcher, sniper, rocket launcher and another 
 one or two. The game tries to focus more on the weapons during the game than the gameplay. THERE 
 IS NO FUN IN UPGRADING YOUR WEAPONS!!! When you collect these green objects you can upgrade your 
 weapon and I noticed that it made hardly no difference whatsoever. The only good thing in this 
 game is that the multiplayer is good and the storyline is good, nothing else.
  
  If you liked Unreal and/or Unreal 2 you might like this game but don't expect a solid game because 
 it probably won't be. I don't even think it was worth the $10 I spent on it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snakeyes99
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jul 19, 2006 3:10 pm PT
Review:  This game had such potential and yet fell flat. The good stuff: nice locals, decently paced and 
 no real bugs that I found. Unlike many I liked the weapons, all seemed effective in one situation 
 or another with the exception of the bonesaw which I didn't use once! The main drawbacks were the 
 lack of any save feature (and I lost a whole whack of progress due to an overwrite... that didn't 
 help my impression) and a story that while I think could have been very good was just impossible 
 to follow. By the end I didn't know if I'd won or lost! This game can be found for very cheap now 
 (I got it for 7.97 CAN) and is worth a play, just don't pay full price :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sniper
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jun 22, 2006 2:12 pm PT
Review:  Technically, Pariah isn't a terrible first-person shooter, but it's easy to resent this game for 
 failing to live up to the outlandish claims of its creators.
  
  For example, Digital Extremes trumpet their hiring of a "Hollywood scriptwriter" to craft a unique 
 and engaging story. What's this dude's name? I'd like to know, so I can avoid his movies like the 
 plague, because Pariah's story is amateurish in the extreme (no pun intended) .
  
  None of the characters are given the slightest motivation to explain their actions. The plot is 
 about, uh... actually, I don't know what the hell is going on (something about the villain being 
 gleeful for giving up his humanity, while your character reveals at the last minute he's really 
 doing all this fighting to save his daughter, who you never even see) . Compelling stuff.
  
  Was little Jimmy, the 10-year-old scriptwriter, responsible for Pariah's dialogue? He must have 
 penned this memorable barb: "Do Re Mi Fa So long, sucka!" Apparently, Pariah's generic bad guys 
 are closet band camp gangsta nerds.
  
  Pariah's setting is dubbed "a prison wasteland called Earth." Well, as wastelands go, the place 
 is quite nice. There's no rubble, no pollution, no radiation, no dirt, no slime, no garbage, no 
 death, and no disease. The only things to spoil the spotless, bucolic splendor are all the inexplicably 
 placed exploding barrels. Stupid crates don't exactly evolve the genre, which Digital Extremes 
 claimed was the intention behind Pariah's single-player campaign.
  
  Like an eager, sickly jerk who drags you down by leeching onto you at a fitness test, or rock climbing 
 lesson (it's a long story) , Pariah earnestly takes itself way too seriously, never recognizing 
 its own limitations. If Digital Extremes had toned down the utterly ridiculous marketing hyperbole, 
 I wouldn't be so hard on this game. Whatever -- they asked for it.
  
  Whew! Deep breath... So, what does Pariah do right? The graphics aren't bad. Its levels are polygon 
 deprived, lacking clutter or detail to give locations a realistic, lived-in look. Empty structures, 
 rooms and hallways reinforce the impression that Pariah's universe is lacking genuine creative 
 force. Nevertheless, elements like trees, bridges and rocks are attractively textured, bump mapped 
 and illuminated. Although GameSpot took issue with the weapons, I didn't have a problem with the 
 arsenal. None of the guns are particularly impressive, but they packed a passable punch, and were 
 accompanied by adequate sound effects. I do indeed appreciate the inclusion of bots for multiplayer 
 offline practice. Every game with a multiplayer component should feature bots for those times when 
 you feel anti-social. Most of the multiplayer maps are cool, flowing smoothly and making good use 
 of vehicles.
  
  If not for Digital Extreme's silly declarations, which fly in the face of reality, Pariah would 
 be completely forgettable. It makes you wonder why the PC version of Pariah remained on store shelves 
 at full price for so long. If you're an FPS junkie, pick it up from the bargain bin for 10 bucks, 
 play it for a weekend, then move on... sucka.
  
  By Phill "Sniper" Parker 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zenmaster2010
Rating: 6.3
Date: Jun 20, 2006 6:59 am PT
Review:  Pariah has its moments as a decent if not predictable sci-fi shooter. The story line has the main 
 character, Mason transporting female prisoner infected with an alien virus that he ends up contracting. 
 This sets off a race to find the secrets behind the virus, and the various battles along the way.
 
  The weapons are pretty weak and must be upgraded to provide any kind of punch. The games AI arent 
 very bright either. The enemies tend to attack head on rather than take cover or flank, making 
 kills pretty routine. The levels have interesting layouts for the most part and you need to be 
 sure to watch carefully for the weapon power ups. Most of them are in plain sight but accessing 
 them requires a little bit of thought and exploration.
  Overall, Pariah provides several hours of routine FPS gaming, with a few surprises and twists, 
 but if possible dont pay full price for this game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: webchuzz
Rating: 7.3
Date: May 8, 2006 7:39 am PT
Review:  The game happens in the future, where a virus has contaminated one girl. However brutal, this virus 
 has a cure, and that cure must be found immediatly. Pariah is a full-of-action game, and it starts 
 in a weird way. Your ship falls in the ground and you are a survivor. Now you must proceed in search 
 of a girl (Karina) that probably is infected with that virus. Along the game, both (player and 
 Karina) will escape various times from the guards. Not helping too much, Karina keeps constantly 
 disappearing, showing you not a lot of trust. One of your objectives is to kill the responsible 
 for the virus, subjectibg you into dangerous situations.
  
  This game is playable online too, and with many game modes. You have capture the flag, team deathmach, 
 deathmatch, etc. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: perlox
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 22, 2006 2:47 pm PT
Review:  I didnt spend that much time playing Pariah because when i loaded the first level i knew that i 
 had stepped into just another FPS. This game, for me, had high hopes and they have been shot down. 
 Luckily there were much better games released that took off the heat.
  The gameplay is standard, the graphics and sound are standard, the story wasnt that great, and 
 the options were limited. Theres multiplayer, but it was like a crappy version of UT2004. The weapons, 
 that youve probably heard about, didnt give the feel of power and werent unique enough to constitute 
 their failures.
  So there really isnt that much going for this game. If your looking for an FPS adventure like Unreal 
 2 or Halo this game may help a little, but i wouldnt expect much. Save your money and get something 
 like Project Snowblind or the Half-Life series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Black_Fist
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 9, 2006 10:13 am PT
Review:  Pariah is one of the best games that no one likes. So I will say right now that I love this game, 
 and therefore my review will be quite positive. You have been warned. So why do I like Pariah so 
 much? I like Pariah because it is different from most FPS games. It has many features that I wish 
 other games had. Features like the healing tool, the weapon acurracy system and the chaotic multiplayer 
 AI. The game is also easy to mod and has an intriging story that unfortunately wasn't wrapped up 
 at the end of the game. The graphics are quite good and the game can run well on lower end systems. 
 The AI isn't the best I have seen but they put up a good fight and surprise you sometimes. I modded 
 the single player to have more enemies and it became quite intense. This is an excellent game for 
 mission designers to play around with. The multiplayer is very fun even when playing with AI only. 
 The matches are quick and brutal. It is an excellent game for LAN parties. In closing this game 
 is just plain fun and you should seriously consider buying a copy from half. com or some other place. 
 If you go into it with a good attitude I am sure you will enjoy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NHDragon99
Rating: 5.2
Date: Mar 2, 2006 5:23 pm PT
Review:  I figured that it would be more like Unreal, but I sure got let down. I didn't like how you could 
 see everything through solid objects (I. E. enemy legs through ceilings, the hands through your 
 own gun, rocks "moving" in a cliff edge.) The story line could have been backed up with some history 
 in the beginning scene. The cut scenes when the main character would talk to himself was a little 
 boring, and what where the energy cores used for? I didn't have much patience to play very far 
 into it. I just think that it could have been alot better than it was. It could have been like 
 a spin-off story of Unreal, but that is just my thought. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dmandoom
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 26, 2006 10:01 pm PT
Review:  When you use the Unreal Engine, you would think nothing could go wrong. But sometimes the game 
 design just does not match up to your expectations.
  
  Pariah had the makings to be a good Sci-Fi shooter. I was hoping for another Unreal 2 feast. But 
 there was just something missing. The mods are a cool idea and the AI seem to be clever enough. 
 But the game just does not have that grabbing power that Farcry or Doom has. Its a shame really. 
 There are some idea's incorparated in to the game. But a great looking FPS engine does not make 
 a game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kenermac
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 16, 2006 8:20 pm PT
Review:  If you like Halo, you will definately like Pariah. One thing that sets these two great games apart, 
 Pariah's enemies are a little more violent making them harder to destroy. 
  As far as stability, the only problem I've had so far is a tiny bit of static in the sound. Maybe 
 it's my soundcard, but it's not enough to make me quit playing any time soon. The graphics in this 
 game are just AMAZING!!!! Everything is very detailed (even the leaves falling from the trees) . 
 The interface is one of the best I've seen in any game as of late. It's really a great game for 
 anyone who likes FPS!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 20648505842410216584325484843111-sonnycX
Rating: 4.3
Date: Dec 15, 2005 5:38 am PT
Review:  The game structure is similar to the one in Halo. Outdoor and indoor environments, the occasional 
 vehicle (that in this game has terrible handling) , what more can I say except that this is a failed 
 attempt to to make a game similar to the ever so popular Halo.
  
  The graphics aren't that bad but the sound is terrible. The weapons lack the power, even if you 
 upgrade them, the enemies (whomever they are because the story................ well the story is 
 BAD, and when i say BAD i mean TERRIBLE) do the same actions over and over and over and over and............ you 
 get the point and when they die they rarely have any death animations.
  
  I can't say anything about the multi-player.... because I have never played it. 
  In the end all 
 i can say about the game is that i'm sorry i bought it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ronsplace68
Rating: 5.9
Date: Oct 21, 2005 4:28 pm PT
Review:  Some fun, some same old. It feels like I played this before without the woman. Hate it when I can't 
 save when I want. The weapons are fair, but the AI seems to have more firepower. On occassion, 
 the graphics look good, some great, but often blah. After Half-Life 2, this game is a let down. 
 I especially grew frustrated with the same lines from the AI everywhere you go. "We just want the 
 GIrl." After a while, you want to give her up just to shut them up. The music is good and well 
 intigrated in some of the levels. Too bad, it falls short. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andrew_ribbons
Rating: 6.8
Date: Oct 20, 2005 9:49 am PT
Review:  Pariah is a fair game, with good ideas pulled from the Unreal 2 Engine, like the destructable terrain. 
 The weapons, despite criticism, are fun to use, and have a good, sturdy, chunky feel to them. I 
 would recommend this game to anyone who's played; Halo, UT2004 or Unreal 2, yet NEVER buy it at 
 it's full price, here's why:
  
  The game has many graphical and technical issues yet to be solved in a patch release.
  
  The 
 gameplay is fun, but may get boring after several plays. Therefore i class its replayablilty as 
 4/10.
  
  The campaign is short, and lacks story power!
  
  Basically, get it if you see it cheap! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: punabutta
Rating: 8.3
Date: Sep 20, 2005 3:36 pm PT
Review:  I don't know what Jeff was listening to but the sound effects were great. Pariah is a throwback 
 to shoot run shoot games with little suprises. I agree the story line is hard to follow but I buy 
 my games just to shoot and run and try to do better on each level, which doesn't get much harder. 
 As I've said before the weapon upgrades are a must to make the game more enjoyable. Also I've got 
 a poor system - p4 2.5/XP home sp2/ati 9600xt 128mb/1 gig 266/SB Audigy 2 ZS - but the game lets 
 me run on very high on everything with 2x AA at 1024 x 768. Far Cry, HL 2, Doom 3 only allows me 
 to see games on mediun, so with the visuals and upgrades Pariah has shown me what you folks with 
 killer systems have been experiencing all the time. In my book Pariah rates at least a 8.3. I've 
 been playing it at least 2x a day since I got it @ two weeks ago. Jeff you are a snob. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ranzou
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 15, 2005 1:56 pm PT
Review:  This game is bland. Sure it has a few interesting battles. But it lacks that pull you in, stay 
 up all night, yee haw, bang bang shoot'em up.
  
  The game definitely had potential. Just did'nt pull it off as well as could have.
  
  I'm glad 
 I did'nt pay the full $40 for it new.
  
  The basic story is a cargo plane is shot down. A chick with a virus escapes, you chase her down, 
 only to join sides to survive. Then everybody is after you so you shoot your way out of the bad 
 lands. Until you meet the perpetrator and shoot him too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HunterBruno
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 11, 2005 9:08 pm PT
Review:  The game isn't that bad like the reviews said but it's simply too short to make it very interesting. 
 When you are upgrading your weapons especially the one that are frequently used than you have enough 
 power to beat the game. The dialogue between the characters are plain stupid and not worthing to 
 play at all. Just shoot your way through the enemies and you will be fine. The graphics are good 
 and the game play fair enough. The link between Halo and this one is not too far but still you 
 can enjoy this game if you're not a demanding person. It will be just fine for those who love sf 
 shooters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: royboy2100
Rating: 3.7
Date: Jun 6, 2005 4:28 pm PT
Review:  Oh dear, just when we thought PC games are slowly climbing out of the hole, just to fall in again 
 due to lots high profile game developers porting the games poorly to the PC. And to think Pariah, 
 an unreal engine game that uses an engine optimized for the PC could fall in this class of bad 
 games. We've already seen it once with Deus Ex 2, seems like every Unreal engine based game are 
 moving to the console and what we get is a the scraps from them. 
  
  Pariah was one of my most waited games I wanted to play. It wasn't for the multiplayer or action, 
 but it was storyline that made me want to spent $40 bucks on. The first noticable thing in the 
 game was the cutscenes. The cutscenes are rendered in the engine, but looks very jaggy and poorly 
 made. The reason why was the developers recorded and copied it from the Xbox to the PC. Another 
 very noticable problem was when I was playing about 2 hours into the game, I was ready to save 
 and go to bed. To my surprise there was no quick save, save feature, or anything and this game 
 is in the Unreal 2 engine? Unreal 2 had a save anywhere feature, what happened here? And to my 
 sadness, when I got back to the game, the next morning, the game didn't save my progress or anything. 
 About 2 hours later, I returned the game to my EBworld store and got a full refund back.
  
  If you have an Xbox, its probably better to buy the game for that since it seems game developers 
 nowadays are just making games primary for the console system and to make a few extra buck, port 
 the game to the PC in whatever condition it was. Other then that, this game isn't worth $40 bucks. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rosesunkist
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jun 1, 2005 6:56 am PT
Review:  Just finished playing this. It was not too bad, but could have been much better. Most of the game 
 was rather easy, save a few places where you can't help but die 5-6 times. Seems that most of the 
 cut-scenes were of rather poor quality while the rest of the game had pretty good graphics. This 
 appears to be a normal FPS, albeit a short one. There are some pretty repetitive parts that you 
 must replay if you die. There are some challenges, like shooting rockets out of the air add a slight 
 mini-game flair, but tend to be tedious when you die.
  
  It reminded me slightly of Deus Ex, a very streamlined one, without any manipulation of objects. 
 A pretty straightforward game, but the plot leaves much to be desired. Gameplay is not bad, but 
 how can you get shot like 5 times and lose 1 bar of health, but some guy punches you like 3 times 
 and you are dead?? That is rather odd.
  
  Overall not bad, but I wish I had waited until the price had gone down. This seems to be more of 
 a multiplayer game than singleplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PotatoSan
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jan 25, 2007 9:43 pm PT
Review:  This game was nothing like I expected it to be. Basically, I was expecting a good game. Nothing 
 Halo2 good, but something else to play on Live.
  
  Turns out the game is almost a complete joke. Like GS says, it just isn't satisfying at all to 
 shoot a gun.
  
  Online matches are full of quad lock on rockets and other wonderful things of that nature.
  
 
  The map editor isn't horrible but definitely isn't close to being good. Very limited amount of 
 brushes and textures, etc. Although if you try hard you can make a somewhat good looking map.
 
  
  Just don't get the game. It's pretty horrible. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MyImmortal6
Rating: 3.8
Date: May 30, 2005 11:33 pm PT
Review:  Pariah had the potential to be an excellent game. It isn't. Throughout the course of the game you 
 will have little to no idea of the storyline due to poorly realised cutscenes and terrible dialogue. 
 
  
  But this isn't all bad right, as long as the action is good? Well if blowing up the exact same 
 looking enemies for about 7 hours until you get to the end is your definition of fun, then go for 
 it. Your weapon loadout feels pretty much useless. You can get through the whole game using just 
 one. Upgrading your weapons feels like a cheap side-show attraction, in that it costs a lot for 
 no apparent effect. However, upgrading your grenade launcher once gives it a remote detonator, 
 which helps make the game stupidly easy, as all the enemies normally stand next to each other. 
 
  
  In an FPS it is important to get the AI just right, and once again, Pariah falls way short. They 
 feel fake. They run at you, then run away, then run back again. 
  
  The vehicles are ponderous and serve no purpose, and they are only in about 2 or 3 levels. 
  
 
  In short, this game blows hard. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drswank
Rating: 5.3
Date: May 30, 2005 6:19 pm PT
Review:  Pariah is a lot like a child actor; it shows so much promise when you first see it only to have 
 it gradually fall victim to its own inadequacies later down the road. All right, that may not be 
 the best analogy, but truth be told - Pariah isn't revolutionary by any means. While you may be 
 impressed by the game's polished visuals at first, you'll find that it's just a by the numbers 
 FPS that you'll be tired of by the end of the game despite the addition of a level editor and the 
 ability to upgrade weapons. The game is dragged down to being average thanks in part to a bland 
 single player game, some bland multiplayer components, not to mention the most laughable enemy 
 AI in recent memory. 
  
  As opposed to playing a walking tank, Pariah goes against the grain and puts you into the shoes 
 of a medic named Jack Mason who finds himself on a mission to transport a woman in a cryogenic 
 chamber named Karina who carries an unknown virus. Pariah wouldn't be much of a game if everything 
 was roses, however, as the transport crashes nearly killing Jack, though that would be the least 
 of his worries as the area is crawling with an army that's out to get Karina and harness the power 
 of the virus she carries. Along the way another faction gets involved and you pretty much stop 
 caring about the story because you're only playing to shoot people anyways. 
  
  Pariah's gameplay attempts to mimic other first-person shooters such as Halo, but mimicking is 
 about all it's capable of. You have a health bar consisting of (what look like) four chicklets 
 that acts just like the shield in Halo did in respect to gradually recharging a few moments after 
 taking damage. Aside from the partially recharging health, you also have a healing tool at your 
 disposal that's virtually unlimited, which would make sense given that Jack is a medic. The catch 
 is that the healing tool is part of your weapon inventory and cartridges have to be reloaded after 
 a number of uses. Though this sounds like it would make the game overly simple, it's much harder 
 to use the healing tool, wait for it to reload, and continue healing while dodging fire as opposed 
 to walking over a medikit. 
  
  You'll have a few weapons at your disposal, though the selection is pretty lean. You have your 
 standard Bulldog assault rifle, the frag rifle which should have just been called a shotgun, 
 the slow firing plasma gun, rocket launcher, grenade launcher, and sniper rifle. You'll quickly 
 find favorites out of the selection as some of the guns aren't balanced as well as others, most 
 notably the plasma gun which will only fire a couple of rounds at a time. 
  
  The one original element to Pariah is the ability to upgrade your weapons  for better or worse 
 in some cases. If you take time to explore the environment, you'll find weapon energy cores that 
 can be used to upgrade weapons like adding an extra warhead on the rocket launcher or suppression 
 for the assault rifle for instance. In other cases like the grenade launcher, upgrading will garner 
 you a remote detonator which is more of a hindrance than a help. Despite the setbacks of upgrading 
 some of the weapons, it's a welcome addition to an otherwise bland game. 
  
  Towards the end of the game you'll get stuck with a super powerful, yet annoying weapon that requires 
 almost constant recharging from stations placed throughout the level. This may add some strategy 
 to the game's final battle, but it's enough to make you yearn for the game's more conventional 
 weapons when it comes down to it and ends up becoming more of a handicap than an advantage. 
  
  You will also come across a couple types of vehicles such as a buggy and super sci-fi motorcycle 
 that control just like the vehicles in Halo do, though this can be chalked up to the if it ain't 
 broke, don't fix it theory. Each vehicle has a gun attached and will only fire in the direction 
 the vehicle is facing. You can also attempt to run enemies over, but it better be dead on lest 
 they get pushed alongside the vehicle. 
  
  Enemies show some semblance of intelligence as they'll occasionally duck behind cover or attempt 
 to surround you, but that's about as much as you'll get from the laughable AI. You'll notice the 
 shoddy AI right off the bat as one of the game's early missions has you following a member of the 
 crew on a mission to disable a turret. Despite his claims that he's going to draw their fire, he 
 ends up standing in one spot staring blankly, or from what I gather, into his past. Aside from 
 this, you'll see your enemies frequently shoot each other in the back, charge up and shoot you 
 point blank with rocket launchers, or not even notice you're there. One of their favorite tactics 
 is to crouch and slowly walk towards you a la Sam Fisher, only there are no shadows around, thus 
 making them an easy kill. You'll also find yourself in the middle of battles between two factions 
 at points where neither side will notice you unless you shoot them. Feel free to walk right through 
 the cross fire, nobody will care. Shoot a guy point blank in the head, his buddy won't pay you 
 any mind unless you fire off a shot that doesn't kill him, only then will he attack. The AI is 
 what really whittles Pariah down to standard run and gun fare as the stupidity of the goons you're 
 fighting offer little in terms of satisfaction or fun for that matter. 
  
  Though the environments all look nice, Pariah takes another queue from Halo in terms of level design, 
 being that the levels are repetitive and eventually all corridors look the same. There are other 
 issues with level design in outdoor levels as I found myself sliding down a hill as opposed to 
 walking around it only to die on solid ground at the bottom. Put a hole there if it's going to 
 kill me. 
  
  The multiplayer is solid, thanks in part to the Unreal Engine. You'll find yourself fighting through 
 a handful of multiplayer maps, some of which consist of maps from the single player game. The drawback 
 here is that the action isn't as fast and you're stuck with Pariah's more boring weapons. The standard 
 modes are here, being deathmatch, team deathmatch, capture the flag, and frontline assault. There 
 aren't many servers available, but you can usually find one with a decent number of players to 
 go head-to-head with. 
  
  Although you may be sick of the game after finishing the single player portion, Pariah also features 
 a built-in map editor. The editor makes the art of level design a cinch allowing you to adjust 
 weather, objects, etc. You can also use your custom map in the multiplayer portion of the game, 
 that is, if people come in to play it. You can always opt to fill the level with the game's non-intelligent 
 bots. It all comes back to whether you like Pariah enough to put up with its weapons and gameplay 
 in the end. 
  
  As mentioned earlier, visuals are the only thing Pariah has going for it. The game makes good use 
 of the Unreal Engine to create some really nice outdoor environments as well as some indoor environments 
 that almost equal Far Cry or Doom 3. There are some neat effects being used like bump mapping on 
 objects, particles fly when you hit an enemy with the plasma gun, helmet glass shatters when you 
 shoot them in the head, and there are some neat distortion effects when grenades explode. Characters 
 all look good outside of the cut scenes, though the lip syncing is a bit off. There's also a good 
 use of rag doll effects and some physics at work. 
  
  Sound is average at best. The game's soundtrack gets the job done by setting the mood, but don't 
 ask me to whistle any of it, because I can't remember any of it to save my life. Voice acting is 
 passable, though the game offers a decent amount of cursing, it all sounds forced and tacked on; 
 on top of that, Jack doesn't look like the type of guy who will let an F-bomb loose as often as 
 he does. Weapons don't sound like they pack a punch at all; it's pretty bad when a gun reloads 
 with more punch than the firing. Footsteps are somewhat annoying due to the fact that there seems 
 to be two types of ground you walk on: natural soil and metal floor, furthermore, the metal floor 
 uses the same sound effect that other FPS games have used for the past six years and if it wasn't 
 old before, it will be after Pariah. 
  
  Had Pariah been released a couple of years ago, it would have been decent game, but that unfortunately 
 isn't the case. FPS games on the PC have gone beyond this in the past year. Despite what extras 
 the game offers, it just doesn't amount to any fun. The game is short, the AI is horrible, the 
 multiplayer isn't much fun (when you can find a game, that is) , and you'll be sick of the game 
 by the time you dive into the level editor to even want to use it. If you're a fan of the FPS genre, 
 you're better off skipping on Pariah; it's just not worth the time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: knitecrow007
Rating: 7.4
Date: May 30, 2005 6:12 pm PT
Review:  Pariah is another FPS in a long line of shooters that are trying to distinguish themselves from 
 the likes of Farcry or HL2. Unfortunately despite some minor innovations Pariah is ultimately another 
 generic shooter that fails excite.
  
  
  The Good:
  -While the graphics are not the best, they are decent and hold up very well on a mid-level graphics 
 card like the Radeon 9800pro. I was able to play @ 1600x1200 at full detail.
  - nearly all weapon secondary fire option and nearly all of them can be upgraded.
  - Good presentation
 
  - "ok" story
  
  
  The Bad:
  - Standard weapons, nothing to get excited about
  - Story doesn't excite and at times leaves you wondering "what is going on" -- the narrative could 
 have been better and so could the detail of the narratives.
  - Bland, standard level design.
  - Vehicle control is awkward with keyboard and mouse.
  
 
  
  The Ugly
  - Its all been there, done that
  - This game fails to excite
  
  
  
  CONCLUSION:
  At the end of the day Pariah is ordinary FPS that is quickly forgotten. There 
 are better FPS games out there: [1] farcry [2] Chronicles of Riddick [3] Call of Duty with Expansions 
 [4] Medal of Honor with expansions [4] Brothers in Arms ....
  
  This game is a rental, plain and simple. I wouldn't spend any more than $5 to $10 if buying from 
 ebay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctor_kaz
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jan 13, 2006 12:56 pm PT
Review:  Pariah is a nice looking first person shooter with some cool twists. Instead of achieving greatness, 
 however, this game is held back by a few major flaws. It is fun when it wants to be, so if youre 
 looking for a shooter to play through once as a time killer, its worth a look when it reaches 
 the bargain bin. When compared to the best that the genre has to offer though, this game is forgettable.
 
  
  Pariah uses the Unreal engine, and right away, you can recognize this. The outdoor areas look almost 
 exactly like they do in Tribes: Vengeance and Unreal 2: The Awakening. Overall, Pariah sports some 
 nice visuals, both indoor and outdoor. Character models look pretty good, and the games textures 
 and environments sport high details. There are some nice visual effects as well, like the brief 
 green flash and shock wave from a grenade explosion, and the way that a vehicle blows apart when 
 it is hit by a grenade. The only major flow with the graphics is that the cut scenes look terrible. 
 
  
  Like Unreal 2, Pariah also has some cool, powerful-sounding weapons. Each of the weapons has a 
 visceral punch to it. This is especially true of the shotgun, which makes a loud boom for the gunshot 
 and then makes this weird sucking sound when you pump it. The grenade launcher, however, is by 
 far the best part of the game. You launch grenades and then detonate them with the left mouse button. 
 It sounds ordinary, but when you combine the cool explosions with the games rag doll effects, 
 it makes for some wonderful moments. Pariah also has some destructible elements in its environments. 
 Numerous times in the game, you launch a well-placed grenade, detonate it, and blow three guys 
 and a bunch of debris halfway across the screen. You can do this repeatedly, and it never gets 
 old.
  
  A nice musical score accompanies the audio and adds to the games atmosphere. The theme song that 
 plays when the game starts up is particularly impressive. Its too bad that it didnt accompany 
 a more memorable game.
  
  Unfortunately, also like Unreal 2, the gameplay for Pariah is uninspired in many areas. The game 
 has a horrible lack of variety in both its enemies and its level design. You fight the same two 
 or three enemies the entire game, and all that changes is the weapons that they carry. The same 
 can be said of the level design, which is vanilla as it gets and contains no memorable areas whatsoever. 
 The games AI is also average, at best, and brain-dead at its worst. Sometimes guards will chase 
 you down over areas and attack you from behind cover. Other times, they will stand there motionless 
 as you gun them down. Its as if you are supposed to cross some invisible line before you activate 
 the AI. The bad AI in some places contributes to Pariah being a pretty easy game. Given that the 
 game has the checkpoint save system that we all love to hate though, being easy isnt such a bad 
 thing.
  
  The implementation of a lot of the weapons in this game is also disappointing. The weapons look 
 and sound cool, but a lot of them are just minor repeats of each other in practice. The shotgun, 
 assault rifle, and plasma rifle all accomplish essentially the same function. Part of the problem 
 here is that they are all highly accurate, even at long distances. You can kill somebody from 50 
 feet away with a few shotgun blasts, which negates the shotguns normal use as a close-range weapon. 
 The guns have this big fat targeting reticule (a leftover from the X-Box version, of course) , and 
 all you have to do is place it over your enemies, and youll hit 100% of the time. You can practically 
 use the assault rifle as a sniper rifle in this game. This is a big flaw in an action game like 
 this.
  
  The worst part about Pariah though, is that its story is a complete letdown. The intial cutscene 
 of the game is interesting, but after that, the story becomes a bunch of incoherent nonsense. None 
 of the mission objectives or the reasons behind them make a lot of sense. You are trapped on some 
 foreign planet with a woman who is carrying some disease, and you keep chasing her down, losing 
 her, and then chasing her down again. Why? Who knows? You're also in the middle of some war. Or 
 something like that. How anybody could release a story in this state is beyond me. Pariah smacks 
 of a game that is incomplete, as if the story was half-written before the team ran out of funding. 
 
  
  As you might expect, the story takes paramount importance, because the gameplay isnt enough to 
 carry it on its own. The weakness of the story is even more disappointing, for this reason. Despite 
 its mundane levels, poorly balanced weapons, and hit-or-miss AI, Pariah could have been a compelling 
 game if the story had panned out. Thats not to say that this is a bad game, because it isnt. 
 The action is at least solid, and the game is generally free of glitches or bugs. Its a mostly 
 mediocre game with a couple of bright areas that stand out. 
  
  Pariah is short, and you can finish it in about 6 or 7 hours. After that, there is little reason 
 to go back and play it again. Pariah has a nice presentation and has a few nice additions, but 
 overall, its not a very good game. There were some good ideas here, but uninspired gameplay and 
 poor storytelling overcome them. The game is at least worth a look in the bargain bin if you are 
 a first person shooter fan though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cclassiter
Rating: 7.3
Date: May 19, 2005 7:10 pm PT
Review:  A game that does not live up to expectations.
  
  First the good:
  1. Graphics where great. The game uses the Unreal Engine.
  2. Weapons: I like the upgrade factor. 
 Something different for a FPS.
  3. Multiplayer: This makes the game for me. Think of UT '04 with a twist!
  
  Now the bad:
 
  1. Bugs: Had a lot of trouble just getting the game started. Found out through forums that I had 
 to delete my profile from the demo. Also there were times where odd objects would appear in the 
 graphics. If wasn't often but it was annoying.
  2. Weapon Cores: You collect these to upgrade your weapon, however with most of the weapons there 
 were no noticeable changes, especially with the assault rifle.
  3. Storyline: It sucked! Plain and simple. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kevin62773
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 11, 2005 7:38 pm PT
Review:  Look i'm going to go into much here becuase i'm tired of fending off all the Halo 2 fanboys.
  
  First of all yes this game has flaws LIKE DO ALL GAMES
  
  Ok the AI can be dumb at times 
 and others it can be amazing so it's give or take.
  
  The graphics in this game are good if you run them on full. i'm sick of people disputing this what 
 do you think you could have Doom3 graphics with the huge open levels NOOOOOO not right now atleast 
 because there is not enough people running AREA 51 PC"S
  
  The sound is very good period
  
  The Multiplayer is amazing and with mods to come it will only get better. So you people stop 
 playing it onetime and getting your ass? ss handed to you and go an write a review and say it sucks 
 NO YOU SUCK LEARN HOW TO PLAY
  
  Value, Well it's a great value because you can play the single plaeyr levels over and over and 
 have fun. And yes it does not have a major story So what this is a fresh way to do it so you don't 
 have the feeling of playing that same level and having to watch these major scripted cut scenes.
 
  
  Final thoughts this game is good no it's not the big story of HL2 or the graphics of Farcry or 
 Doom3 or any of these i mentioned. If it was not for Halo 2 which is way over rated and so over 
 hyped. This game would be getting way more credit. Also do you remember a game called Tribes yes 
 Tribes that first came out several years ago well that game got so much praise well Pariah just 
 smashes that game but yet since there have been games that have came along and reivented a few 
 things and set some new standards. Now we have all these fan boys and way of thinking that theres 
 not room for this good game called Pariah and no matter what want to put it down.
  
  Don't listen people this game is good so go get it and create some awsome maps in the very easy 
 map editor. And go online and learn and have a lot of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nika47
Rating: 6.3
Date: May 11, 2005 7:07 pm PT
Review:  First of all I thought this game would be really great, I thought it would receive at least 8.5 
 score. This game lacks many things, the weapons are just too weak, the AI is really dumb, the sound 
 is ok I guess, but only satisfying. As for the storyline, it is too straightforward, it has no twists 
 and no surprises. A game is supposed to intrigue a player, it shouldn`t be predictable. The NPC 
 AI is really bad, they do the same things over and over again, it seems that they just closed their 
 eyes on the AI when testing it, they thought the AI would learn new moves and maneuvers on it's 
 own.
  
  There are much better games than this, I WARN YOU don't buy it or rent it, this game won't satisfy 
 you. You don`t want to go anywhere near this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: j_diltz
Rating: 7
Date: May 11, 2005 7:44 am PT
Review:  I would agree with the assessment that this game was designed for console first. Neverminding the 
 graphics, a PC game with no quick saves? And no way to skip the cutscenes!? If you start a level 
 and die before making it to the first save point, you will suffer through the beginning of level 
 cutscenes every time. I'm not one to quicksave every few enemies, but having to redo major portions 
 of a level (including cutscene!) for the lack of quick save capability gets tedious very fast.
 
  
  The AI left a lot to be desired. Sometimes it was good, most of the times not so good. An NPC behind 
 a cover with a rocket launcher is more likely to fire into his cover and kill himself than be a 
 threat to you. Even on the highest difficulty, only in certain places was the enemy coordinated 
 and grouped enough to be a real threat.
  
  Weapons: A melee weapon is provided, but I never used it once. Weapons otherwise have 3 levels 
 of upgradability. Look for the Weapon Energy Cores for upgrades. Bulldog (machine gun) at level 
 3 upgrade, armor piercing bullets, is the weapon of choice. Sniper rifle, level 3, also armor piercing. 
 Grenade launcher useful for grouped enemies. Frag rifle (shotgun) , fairly useless except in one 
 part of the game. Rocket launcher, rarely used. Weapon audio sounded okay to me. Nothing amazing, 
 but serviceable.
  
  Gameplay: Pretty straightforward FPS. Your objective: Find Karina, lose Karina, rinse and repeat. 
 The story was simple enough to follow and understand. Level design not bad, but nothing unusual. 
 Some levels involve some on the rails shooting. One thing I did like was the vehicles were surprising 
 easy to steer using the mouse. Keyboard was only needed for forward and reverse. MP didn't interest 
 me for this game.
  
  I recommend trying the Xbox SP demo and/or PC MP demo to see if it's something you'll like or not. 
 Personally, I found Area 51 a more interesting and fun game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jason_Morris
Rating: 7
Date: May 8, 2005 1:11 pm PT
Review:  This game almost makes the grade, but just doesn't quite live up to what it was looking like it 
 was going to be. It's fun, and far from terrible, but it shoots itself in the foot on so many levels. 
 The closest comparison I can think of is Breed, although this is far less bug ridden, and generally 
 far superior to, than that game. 
  
  The first thing to strike me was that the default mouse setting is stupendously sensitive and has 
 to be altered straight away; also while the faces are very good indeed, the textures are quite 
 dated looking; the corridors look okay, but the outdoor/countryside scenery looks very poor indeed 
 compared to Far Cry. This brings me to another weakness, it's almost all reminiscent of other games, 
 Halo & Far Cry to be exact (and Unreal II to a lesser degree) , and it pales compared to both of 
 them, frankly. It's graphically weaker than either, and lacking the gameplay finesse of either, 
 too. The stealth controls aren't particularly stealthy, you crouch by bending your knees a little 
 bit, but not enough to feel like you're making any sort of effort to hide; also it's too easy to 
 get stuck in the scenery, particularly annoying when you're trying to back away from a firefight 
 so you can reload (which takes what seems like several months on some weapons, I almost expect 
 Mason to whistle The Girl From Ipanema while he's reloading) . 
  
  The above probably makes the game sound terrible, which it's not, it's just... ... not quite what 
 it should be; there's just one too many little annoying things wrong, which is a shame as it could 
 have been a contender. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mehrbod
Rating: 6.2
Date: May 7, 2005 9:23 am PT
Review:  Well I am going to write a short statement of my opinion and probably majority of people who played 
 this game.
  
  Good Things
  
  1. very nice guns, specially the sniper is amazing
  2. nice sound well almost
  3. Multiplayer is nice. Try demo before buying this game
  4. ...... mmmmm 
 please someone post some good features of this game latter
  
  Bad things
  
  1. graphic is just wrong. I think they design Xbox version first than convert it to PC version. 
 The Unreal Engine just doesnt apply anywhere except the sky
  2. gameplay is bad and i mean very bad. U have to epmty 50 bullets on each enemy
  3. controling 
 and operating the machines are really hard and kinda wired 
  
  Overall
  
  Very disappointing. last year i thought this game is going to be the next Unreal 3 but simply nothing 
 applies over 6/10 in this game 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
