-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Patriots: A Nation Under Fire
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/patriotsanationunderfire/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 You get to kill terrorists.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Killing terrorists isn't fun.
 Frustrating level of challenge made worse by bad combat mechanics.
 Chunky, blurry graphics.
 Story is thin to begin with and disappears almost immediately.
 Painful voice acting.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Feb  9, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 2.9
Critic Score: 2.7, 3 Review (s)
User Score: 4.5, 85 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: DreamCatcher Interactive
Developer: 4D Rulers
Genre: Action
Date:     Jan 23, 2007
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Even the promise of blowing away the most generic of terrorists in Middle America isn't enough to 
 make Patriots anything more than a rote, mind-numbing shooter. 

  Is there any thought more frightening to an American than the thought of another massive terrorist 
 attack on US soil? Absolutely: the prospect of having to play through Patriots: A Nation Under 
 Fire. This budget-priced first-person shooter creates a nightmare scenario of a massive, countrywide 
 terrorist attack that leaves many major cities destroyed in a nuclear holocaust and the remaining 
 populace under siege by masked guys with guns and unplaceable, threatening-sounding accents. It 
 then piles on the nightmare by encumbering you with intensely clumsy cover mechanics, a level of 
 challenge that borders on unfair, and absentminded artificial intelligent cohorts who make fantastic 
 bullet shields but aren't useful for much else.  

          This is the most realistic National Guard behavior you'll ever see.     

  Patriots 
 starts out with a lengthy narration sequence explaining how terrorists basically popped up out 
 of nowhere and started blowing stuff up. Not that you'd necessarily expect taut, captivating fiction 
 from a budget title, but that block of narration is about as much story as you'll ever get out 
 of the game. Evidently you play as a blank-slate National Guardsman who's been called in to the 
 local armory to suit up, only to find it overrun with terrorists. From there, you take on a series 
 of almost totally unrelated missions until the terrorists have been bested or you've given up and 
 uninstalled the game. For sanity's sake, the latter is probably the smarter option.  

  Even on the easiest difficulty level, it becomes clear early on in Patriots that a certain a certain 
 amount of patience is required to survive. The number of terrorists the game starts throwing at 
 you as soon as you exit the armory is insane. Apparently, every terrorist in the world got together 
 and formed some kind of supergroup, because the numbers you'll end up killing over the course of 
 the game are staggering. At the very least, you can't call these enemies dumb. Save for a few dummies 
 who stand around vacantly just waiting for you to shoot them, the majority of these guys know how 
 to grab cover and are crack shots, so unless you can find cover immediately, you're hosed.  

  And therein lies the comedy, as the game's cover mechanics are woefully inadequate. The game 
 places plenty of abandoned vehicles and random crates around its stages for you to cower behind, 
 but there are no covering mechanics beyond a cover toggle. You press it to duck, and press it again 
 to stand back up. You can't look out from cover to shoot, blind fire, or do anything that might 
 be considered, you know,  tactical . Your best bet in most cases is to just wait until the AI soldiers 
 on your side of the fight kill off as many of the nearby terrorists as they can before they're 
 inevitably murdered (AI good guys know how to kill -- just not how to avoid being killed) , then quickly 
 run to the next objective point. AI soldiers seem to endlessly respawn until you've completed each 
 mission objective (in many cases, to rescue defenseless hostages who tend to get shot rather easily) , 
 so standing around and killing guys is less useful than just trying to run away and avoid getting 
 shot while blasting any enemy that gets within five feet of you.  

  Adding to the frustration of it all is the obscenely limited amount of ammunition you're handed 
 throughout the game. There's a decent variety of guns to play around with, but almost all of them 
 are woefully lacking in bullets. It seems as though half of every mission consists of just running 
 around, trying to dig up enough ammo to move to the next point. Over time the game slowly but surely 
 gives you more and more ammunition, but it also throws more and more terrorists at you, which keeps 
 the balance decidedly not in your favor. Even when you've got piles and piles of dead terrorists 
 lying about the place, their weapons ripe for the picking, you rarely collect enough ammo to be 
 useful for more than a few minutes. An even more ridiculous problem is that there's no automatic 
 reload function, so every time a gun runs out of ammo, you have to stop to reload it manually. 
 It just so happens that most times you'll run into this problem while you're being shot to death 
 from all directions. Top it off with the fact that the level of aiming precision with pretty much 
 any gun besides the sniper rifle exists somewhere around just aiming for the sky and hoping the 
 bullets fall to the ground on a terrorist's head, and you're not going to have much fun at all 
 with the game's shooting mechanics.  

          It's nice to see the government supplying our troops with the latest in high-tech weaponry. 
     

  Patriots presents itself about as poorly as the average budget title tends to. The graphics are 
 chunky and bland, with character models, animations, and environments that look as if they came 
 out of a Counter-Strike knockoff circa 1999. The explosion and death effects are supercheesy, in 
 the sort of way that causes rocket-launcher blasts to create tiny puffs of fire that somehow turn 
 enemies into several badly textured chunks of meat. Occasionally the game does up its whole terrorists-in-Middle-America 
 thing in an interesting way, sticking you in a suburban neighborhood or major city that's brimming 
 with bad guys. But the environments themselves are tiny and ugly, and many of them seem to reuse 
 a lot of the same basic design elements. Clipping problems also present constantly, with arms, 
 guns, and dead bodies morphing into various pieces of the environment on a near-constant basis. 
 The audio is markedly worse than the graphics, even. Terrorists shout such wonderfully original 
 lines as "kill the infidels!" over and over again until the words have basically lost all meaning, 
 and your guys barely ever speak, save to curse once in a while about nothing in particular. Gun 
 effects are marginally decent, and the music is the sort of generic,  
 noise that you've probably already heard in dozens of other games.  

  The premise of Patriots: A Nation Under Fire is a bit silly in its over-the-top methodology, but 
 it's not inherently a bad one. The problem is that nothing is done with it. The story is left for 
 dead the moment the first mission pops up, and from there it's an onslaught of bad missions with 
 worse combat that go on and on until the game finally gives up and ends. This one's a losing fight 
 any way you look at it.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (6 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: LegenderyMan
Rating: 3
Date: Jul 10, 2008 9:16 am PT
Review:  
  What the Americans do when Terrorist 
  invade. Of course they do what know better.
  FIGHT BACK.
  
  
  
  PATRIOTS review by Legendery_Man
  
  Patriots is a new title by the-not-so-Popular
 
  DreamCatcher interactive which explains the
  story of the America Army as they try to Kill the bad 
  terrorist.
  The terrorist are attacking 
 with nuclear weapons and they have destroyed
  50 major cities and they do not show any sings that they are stopping. So 
  you, as a good ''Patriot'' 
 ,are called to defend you country and turn the face of 
  war.
  You adventure starts at a military base where you
  must enforce your self with weapons so you 
 can 
  begin your missions so you can kill the terrorist.
  With the first look it is made clear that 4d Rulers
  made this game low-budget. Since, of course,
 
  4d rulers isn't famous for their artistic titles and 
  Patriots is not an exception. The graphics are ugly
  and you may hardly believe that the game 
 was released 
  this decade. The A. I. is by far the worst thing in the 
  game. It doesn't exist. Its so bad that you can kill easily
  your friendly units (which will spawn 
 back so you can kill them again :D)
  The only positive thing about it is that it has 
  classic game play. Its the mixture of mouse and 
  keyboard like most FPS. Generally the game-play
 
  is simple with you finding 
  bullets, health and killing who ever you see. It of you
  have the bad luck of running low on bullets, don't 
  worry because you can kill you friendly 
 units 
  and take their ammo. So easily.
  The head shot are fun and the story is comical and interesting.
  In conclution you can see that 
 the title has no reason 
  to play at all and the only reason you should play it is 
  for the head shot or if you want to make a review of this
  piece of crap. If it was free it may 
 have had been interesting ,
  but they dare to market it as a full product in they
  year that we play gears of war and CRYSIS.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DaTa9192
Rating: 2.5
Date: Dec 27, 2007 12:03 am PT
Review:  Hmmm.. lets see..... You are a soldier..... USA soil is under attack.. you must save your country!!!
 
  
  Graphics 3/10
  
  The guns look as if they had been taken from CS!!! I mean... can't you make your own models????? Blood 
 is unrealistic.. shooting a man in the head causes his head to explode.. no ragdolls
  
  Sound 4/10
  
  No music i think... Lousy sound effects
  
  Gameplay 2/10
  Lets see.. you 
 start in an armory..... ALL OF A SUDDEN BOOOOMM TERRORIST INVADE !!! Wow terrorist can kill so many 
 soldiers IN AN ARMORY FULL OF GUNS!! Isn't there guards or watchtowers outside
  
  A. I 2/10
  The ai in this game is crazy
  Thats all i have to say.. CRAZY A. I
  
  Overall this 
 is a sucky game... i won't even download it if its free........
  If you buy it you have no brains and eat eyeballs. I didn't even think about finishing the game.. i 
 couldn't because i had uninstalled it and gave it to a beggar who looked at it for a while and 
 ate it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aram67
Rating: 1
Date: Mar 24, 2007 2:41 pm PT
Review:  This is the worst game I have ever played. After the first 5 minutes I was ready to stop killing 
 terrorists and kill myself just to stop the agony of playing this game. You can't even enjoy the 
 terribleness of this game because the enemys are all super tought crack shots who kill you in less 
 that 10 seconds before you can even expend the 5 bullets that came with your gun. It was so bad, 
 I actually took the disc out of my computer, put it in a blender, and then flushed it down the 
 toilet. Bye-bye $20. Whatever you do, DO NOT BUY THIS GAME or else you are funding video game terrorists, 
 game producers bent on destroying the gaming world one awful game at a time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sponny1
Rating: 4.9
Date: Feb 21, 2007 5:42 am PT
Review:  Patriots: a nation under fire was already released in singapore 2 months before it came out in the 
 US. While i baught it at 20 bucks it tought it would be an nice low-budget game from dreamcast. While 
 i have appreciated some games from dreamcast but mostly their most succesfull project , Painkiller 
 , i tought that patriots would be a decent game to ease my time ,cause guild wars server was down 
 so since it was down for 2 god dam it hours! i decided to buy some cheap games to ease my time 
 till my i could finaly reconnect with the guild wars server.
  
  Gameplay:
  While patriots has a mission [whice is obvious!] the sad part about it is that it dosent have a 
 multiplayer so i didnt care because i felt like it didnt fit for a kind of game like this [ regardless 
 about counter-strike] so once u start the game theyl show a small slide about the 911 blah blah 
 blah so then after that u appear in a office so are told to go to the armory u come out and the 
 next thing u know terrorist attack! and it wierd to see the story to start out like that i mean 
 it feels so well... odd to tell you the truth anyway enemy AI are very very primative the only 
 thing thats hard is that in easy mode thier bullets do some damage but in hard mode the only god 
 dam it difference is that the bullet does mroe damage! while this is so last minute for the developers 
 and yet ure tema wont even say a word yet also it fells annoying once in a while to hear ure dude 
 ,whom u are controling , is shouting , we need back up , and etc. While u can assumely get more 
 ammo in a manner where u dont have to go around to get some bullets across a whole bunch of terrorist 
 thats gonna fire u at every side but you can seem to see a big glitch , well see if u were to shoot 
 your men a new one would appear but the profit in bullet that ull get is more cause you can do 
 this repeatedly getting free bullets but doing this to much will result on having 0 men to help 
 you so good luck on that. While saving hostage can be a pain in the a. s. s cause theyl easily die 
 in one shot plus when theres a bunch of terrorist shooting at every single angle and plus while 
 its extremely hard to reload ure self i mean there is no auto-reload to it i mean wtf?
  
  While there is some live to battle when it comes to sohuting u can sometimes really get some fell 
 of some good firefights but its wirerd casue your dam teamates wont even say a thing. Weapons are 
 all nicely done but dosent streghten the gaem thatm uch plus theres a variety the shotgun can be 
 a hell of a sweet baby cusing to allow bodies to spill in them ost blood but while there is room 
 for improvements with the weapons but overall there all just to underused in the game
  
  While there are dozens of glithes like example, morphs of dead bodies, frame rates and its also wierd 
 to see many clones of cars, structure and most of all ureo wn teammates! While fire fights will 
 most of the itme takeplaces in surburbian town or some small streets or cities or maybe inside 
 buildings and etc but it dosent mearly even add up to it.
  
  Graphics:
  
  While the whole dam thing looks like a ripoff to a 2001 FPS game. Fire looks to cheezy and too 
 1994 2d-3d style stuff, environments looks funny and all the structures that are outside the combat 
 zone look more adsive the developers didnt put in effort is liek they took some old city photos 
 from some kind of old magazine and put it into the game
  
  Graphics are notm uch to say but extrmely disastrous and undermade while its odd to see a good 
 company make such a illdecive graphics put it into a game it fells like its all craked up to be 
 in it... hell duke nukem 3d had way more better graphics than this!
  
  Sound:
  
  While there aint so much voice acting but ull repeatedly fell to frustrated from hearing this and 
 its aobut htem ost original terrorist word to describe how much they hate the US military , Kill 
 the Infedels , but yah its aobut them ost original and yet it gets very annoying when ure military 
 dude whom u are controlling keeps on shouting when the team members arent even listening to him 
 itsl ike his shouting for no god dam it reason i mean the developers muct have tought that , hell... hey 
 crew how about we add in some dude who the players will control shout commands but for nothing 
 its just to make the firefights morel ively and heck maybe we will get a 9.0 from gamespot or maybe 
 a 10 yippy!!!! !
  
  Overall:
  
  Patriots dosent deserve at a price at 20 but at 10 cause of its badly and underused use of it by 
 the developers hell ive bet ive played some games that cost at 10 bucks are are a hell lot better 
 than this!
  
  while its still a good budget game but there is entirely a lot of room for imporvemnts and maybe 
 if there were to be another title maybe we would espect some better improvemnts like letsm ake 
 sure they want reviewers to want it to score at 5.0 or soemthing? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: overberger
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 9, 2007 1:55 pm PT
Review:  This title is a B movie in a video game. The voices are classic mid eastern but with an almost 
 funny cliche overtone. Audio is mixed poorly (too loud for effects and not enough for speech.) 
 The ludicrous overall mission seems to be putting out small fires with a fire extinguisher.. in 
 between blowing the heads off of terrorists.. with the same animated blood gushing neck every time. 
 My favorite scene is where a bad guy blows himself up as a suicide bomber yelling something unintelligible. 
 For 20 bucks, you'll get a kick out of this while waiting for Half Life 2's second episode or, 
 god forbid, the Chernobyl stalker shooter. Really, this is a funny game.. just because it's so bad. 
 Even the choppy voice over intro sounds like the Earth VS the Flying Saucers intro (a 50's sc-fi 
 B classic) . Infidels will be proud !!! Allah help us, we are losing Infidel, Die 
::::::

::::::
UserName: foever86
Rating: 4
Date: Jan 30, 2007 8:01 pm PT
Review:  In todays world, where terrorists alerts are everywhere on TV and airports, maybe it was about 
 time to see a game featuring a massive war against terrorists in first person shooter. Although 
 single player story line featuring such thing could be very attractive, if you are thinking BF2 
 kind of game featuring US Marine Corps and terrorists instead of US and China, think again.
  
  In fact, don't even think again. This game is so far away from such game, you will be very 
 disappointed if you were expecting Patriots to be like BF2. After all, you are paying 20 bucks 
 instead of 40 something.
  
  From a consumer's point of view, however, the product should still be enjoyable no matter what 
 the price is. This game has lost all its score on game play, graphics, even in sound. Maybe its 
 story line can be the only thing that could be appreciated although it isn't impressive.
  
  Graphic is so horrible, it doesn't look like this game was released in year 2007. This game looks 
 even worse than counter strike. Nothing surprisingly spectacular, no impressive physics, there's 
 just nothing to talk about. Let's just say, when you see fire, you'll recognize it, and when you 
 see a guy with black masks, you'll recognize that should be one you need to kill.
  
  I would give a little more score on sounds than graphics, despite the lame voice acting for everyone. 
 Sound of explosion and gunfire is reasonably emulated, although they are certainly not like Company 
 of Heroes sound. Their voice acting of soldiers and terrorists is so bad, you don't feel any suspense 
 from their voices. Terrorists' accent, added on top of horrible voice acting, it just sounds hilarious. 
 They tried to make it sounds like they are from somewhere in Middle East, but it's far from it. 
 Very far.
  
  Last of all, the game play. I reviewed quite a few games, I have never gave this low score on any 
 game. Most of the missions are not only quite unrealistic, the game interface will certainly make 
 you frustrated. One of the easiest thing to mention is that there is no auto reload. That means 
 when your gun is out of bullet, it won't auto reload like many other first person shooters. If 
 you are used to it, you'll get annoyed in many situations, as you would just walk into a battle 
 looking for enemies forgetting the fact your gun is not reloaded. You must press 'R' to reload 
 no matter how many bullets you have.
  Another annoying thing is lack of bullet. For instance, when you pick up AK-47, you'll see your 
 ammo racking up, but every pick up doesn't give you more than 15 bullets. Even if a person carrying 
 the guy just died. Does that make sense? 15 bullets. After 15 fire, you are out. So if you are 
 used to BF2 or CS, you will find yourself looking for ammo all the time as you will be carrying 
 nine guns with no ammos.
  
  Even with its price, this game is not recommended. I would like to recommend Counter Strike, which 
 is available with way cheaper price than this one, even though Counter Strike does not provide 
 story mode like Patriots: A Nation under fire. Not recommended at all, especially if you are hardcore 
 first person shooter player. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
