-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Patrician II: Quest for Power
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/patrician2/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 22, 2001
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.7
Critic Score: 7.8, 15 Review (s)
User Score: 7.8, 118 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Strategy First
Developer: Ascaron Ent. GmbH
Genre: Historic Real-Time...
Date:     Oct 8, 2001
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Patrician II successfully blends trading, city-building, and simple ship combat in a way that's 
 constantly engaging. 

 In the 14th century, German merchants dominated trade throughout Northern Europe, thanks to trade 
 concessions granted to the Hanseatic League. At a time when sea routes in the Baltic and Mediterranean 
 carried the vast bulk of goods and raw materials across Europe, it was possible for fortunate long-distance 
 merchants to earn great fortunes and rise to positions of significant local power. Patrician II 
 is a game that gives you a hands-on opportunity to follow this path; you start as a struggling 
 Hanseatic trader and eventually become a powerful patrician. While the game's hands-on micromanagement, 
 slow pace, and open-ended goals might discourage some players, its interface generally succeeds 
 in making trading as painless as possible. There's also some degree of city-building and isometric 
 ship combat to further keep your interest. But Patrician II's well-balanced game design lacks polish; 
 this is especially evident in the translation errors, some of which are downright confusing.   
         The historical center of the Hanseatic League and your default hometown.    

  The amount of depth and detail concentrated in Patrician II's design is somewhat explained by the 
 fact that this is a sequel to a German game originally produced a decade ago for the Amiga home 
 computer. There are a number of ways to make money in Patrician II, from building and renting houses 
 and loaning money to other traders at exorbitant rates -- on the order of 2 percent a week -- to sponsoring 
 a freelance pirate or two for a cut of the loot. But despite this diversity of options, the core 
 of the game is trading, and this is generally your most profitable pursuit. The game combines broad 
 goals and high-level management tools with detailed ship trading. From humble beginnings with only 
 one small ship until you have the significant resources to organize your own convoys, you'll buy 
 and sell goods on a ship-by-ship basis and sail between the game's 20 Hanseatic towns looking for 
 profitable routes. While you might not be intimately familiar with the geography of the Baltic 
 Sea, it's not hard to figure out which towns produce special goods. For example, Cologne, located 
 on the Rhine River south of Belgium, produces the wine that rich citizens crave, Scandinavian towns 
 stock whale oil, and the eastern towns near Russia provide premium animal skins. These regional 
 products are all graphically represented on the overview map, and while it may take a long week's 
 trip by sea, it's often very worthwhile to seek them out.   

  As you'd expect, the prices for the many goods in the game vary by town, depending on the demand 
 created by the size and relative prosperity of the town and the supplies already in the market. 
 Prices fluctuate dramatically, but it's always easy to see if the goods stored in your warehouses 
 or on a ship can be sold for a profit because the break-even price is always conveniently displayed 
 in the trading windows. When you move on to manufacturing your own goods, it's important to buy 
 raw materials cheaply and produce in high enough volume to make the end product as inexpensive 
 as possible and to fatten your profit margins. Unfortunately, it's not possible to get an estimate 
 on the costs involved in manufacturing until the goods are already in your warehouses, so sometimes 
 despite your best efforts you'll spend time setting up industries that are completely unprofitable, 
 while others can create goods at a 100 percent profit margin.           Make donations at the local 
 church to increase your reputation.    

  New paths open up as you grow your trading company: You can join the local guild, establish trading 
 offices in other towns to maintain local warehouses, and build additional and larger ships. Your 
 larger goal isn't just wealth, but power and social status. There are several levels of social 
 status that are dependent on your wealth and your reputation among the common and wealthy residents 
 of your hometown, a hidden score that is improved by providing needed goods, sponsoring public 
 celebrations, and upgrading the local health conditions. When you reach the rank of counselor or 
 patrician, you can be nominated for the yearly mayoral election. Once mayor, you're eligible to 
 be elected alderman to lead the Hanseatic League itself, but with official power comes the responsibility 
 of building and maintaining the town's defenses out of your own pocket. Fortunately, by this point 
 it becomes much easier to make large sums of money quickly as you group your trading ships together 
 in convoys that can be instructed to automatically run a set trade route.    

 Patrician II succeeds in creating a lively sense of Hanseatic League trade. There are many ships 
 owned by other merchants that come and go from ports and crowd the sea-lanes near key towns. The 
 many competing merchants have a direct effect on market prices, and as soon as they dock they can 
 dump goods onto the market or buy up surplus goods, and they can drive prices dramatically up or 
 down just as you prepare to make your trades. But these same merchants can be a boon when you're 
 trying to protect your ships from the pirates that hunt the open seas. Any ship can join a public 
 convoy for protection, but unless you've formed the convoy yourself, the destination is set in 
 advance. Although you're not the only merchant supplying the Hanseatic towns with the goods they 
 trade, distant towns often aren't supplied with all of the goods they demand. With sufficient scarcity, 
 towns will post contracts for large deliveries of specific goods at a fixed price, which can be 
 a quick windfall for high-margin goods given how prices otherwise fluctuate so dramatically.   
         The town hall is the seat of local politics.    

  Once your trading company grows to encompass more than a dozen ships and has several offices scattered 
 around the Baltic, you'll start to appreciate the limited automation built into Patrician II. The 
 most important such feature is the automated convoy trade routes. These first require a suitable 
 convoy flagship stuffed full of arms and manned by one of the captains who are very occasionally 
 found hanging out in the port tavern. Then you have the option to carefully set up a trade route, 
 specifying exactly which goods to buy and sell and the minimum and maximum prices to charge. This 
 process demands a fair amount of effort, but by the time you get the option, you should have a 
 good sense of where you can get goods and what prices are appropriate. Convoys group the cargo 
 space of several ships, so by this method you can carry huge amounts of valuable bulk goods, like 
 fish, timber, or wool, as well as consistently profitable refined luxuries, such as iron goods 
 and cloth. Connect several good ports and watch the guilders roll in. A less-useful automation 
 feature lets you hire a purchaser in your company offices to maintain a given level of goods in 
 stock, which is helpful for raw materials your industries require. It would be more useful if this 
 option gave you as much control as you have over trade routes to specify target prices and then 
 let you sell as well as buy. At the later stages of the game, there's plenty to do without having 
 to manually sell off your stock when prices hit premium levels.   

  In adding isometric ship combat to the gameplay mix, Patrician II resembles Pirates!, Sid Meier's 
 classic game of Caribbean privateering and trading. In Patrician II, there are four classes of 
 ships, and each can be expanded to support larger numbers of ship weapons at the expense of cargo 
 space. Since the game is set in the mid-14th century, the weapons are naturally somewhat rudimentary: 
 You can access catapults and ballistas at the start, but an early cannon becomes available when 
 the local weapon smith gets enough business. As a result, the ships don't deal the powerful broadsides 
 of later ships of the line, and but since there's no way to adjust the time scale in combat, you 
 may appreciate the relatively wimpy ranged attacks in battles with many ships. Often the most effective 
 tactic is to use the wind to run straight in with a well-manned ship and board an opposing ship 
 or two.           Each town produces only a few of the total goods available.    

  Patrician II's interface is well suited for making quick transactions on the regional overview 
 screen, and it also lets you jump to a detailed view of the city. The 2D graphics are generally 
 colorful but unremarkable and can't be zoomed to varying levels of detail. The game runs constantly 
 in real time at an adjustable speed. However, while there's a fast-forward button that conveniently 
 drops back into regular time for important events, there isn't a pause function, which would have 
 been useful for taking a leisurely look at your detailed financial statements. The primary shortcoming 
 in the game's presentation is in the consistent errors in the translation from German. While most 
 of these are merely distracting, some -- such as the inconsistent use of the English term "corn" 
 for "grain" -- may steepen the learning curve.   

  Patrician II successfully blends trading, city-building, and simple ship combat in a way that's 
 constantly engaging. But while the historical specificity ensures a consistent level of detail 
 as you progress through the standard game, more varied mission types would have made the game more 
 goal-oriented. After the tutorial missions and a campaign that challenges you to rise through the 
 social ranks, you're pretty much left to run through the same open-ended scenario at various levels 
 of difficulty. While there's plenty of challenge just in building your trading company, and there 
 are a number of side activities to keep you busy, the game is essentially focused on trade, without 
 too much depth in the financial, political, or diplomatic components. But since it does do long-distance 
 trade so well, fans of games such as Railroad Tycoon II would do well to check out this medieval 
 equivalent.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (3 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: starwarsfan1234
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 12, 2006 2:32 am PT
Review:  I was very surprised when I saw this game on gamespot. I bought this in a shop that sells the lesser 
 known games. I decided to give it a go. I was surprised about how good it actually was. The pirate 
 battles were a bit hard at first but it does get easier as you progress through the game. The actual 
 game is about barter. First you check what is low in your town, and you then find a town rich in 
 that area. Of course you need to trade something back so find out what they are low on that you 
 are high on. The over all result is a game that has many things to do and many people to interact 
 with like the priest, the unemployed crew members and the guys who fix and build boats. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: peeperoni
Rating: 7.2
Date: Mar 9, 2006 10:58 am PT
Review:  This is one of my all time favorite strategy games. I love business and strategy sims. I love how 
 the game play is very deep, not superficial. Most of what you do will affect your direction in 
 the game. You could try to be an honorable gentleman or a wicked pirate. 
  
  I didn't quite like how it was "illegal" to buy swords. Oh please, you need swords in the game, 
 why make it so hard to find them and get them? Captains are too hard to find too. I found out how 
 to get swords good, BOARD PIRATE SHIPS AND TAKE IT FROM THEM. 
  
  If you love RTS and business hybrid games, I recommend this. this is the best one I have found 
 yet. 
  
  GET PATRICIAN THREE!!!!! IT IS A LOT BETTER.
  
  I had to stop playing because my business got so huge I could no longer manage it. All of my ships 
 need me to manually repair them. In patrician III, they repair themselves (or so I understand from 
 my friends) . It became a boring fix them up. I can't just let these ships do their own thing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pug_of_Crydee
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 27, 2003 3:03 pm PT
Review:  I just finished playing through Railroad Tycoon 2 (again...) which is an excellent game and I was 
 looking for more of that kind of game. Well, I found it in Patrician 2. Although the graphics and 
 sound aren't the best around, it takes only moments to be immersed in the game. I'm not done yet 
 but so far the campaign are great. Even though the game might be a bit overwhelming for any rookies 
 for strategy games of this type, the simple gameplay makes for a lower learning curve than other 
 games. The only complaint: the translation is a bit confusing sometimes. The game is well balanced 
 and the missions are not too easy, which I'm grateful for. Great game, any fan of strategy games 
 should give it a try. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
