-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Patrician III: Rise of the Hanse
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/patrician3/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec 22, 2003
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.2
Critic Score: 7.1, 10 Review (s)
User Score: 8.1, 327 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Encore Software, Inc.
Developer: Ascaron Ent. GmbH
Genre: Historic Real-Time...
Date:     Oct 31, 2003 &raquo;  
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Patrician III isn't much of a sequel, but the core gameplay still makes for a deeply intricate and 
 challenging business game. 

  Ever wonder what it would be like to play as a Hanseatic League trade tycoon? Probably not, since 
 the predominantly German Hanseatic trading league that ruled the Baltic in the 14th to 16th centuries 
 doesn't get much play in English-language schoolbooks. However, the setting's unfamiliarity isn't 
 that important when it comes down to the business at hand: making money the old-fashioned way. 
 This medieval business sim puts you at the helm of a budding trading company that can sail the 
 Baltic with goods like beer, cloth, and spices and can set up workshops to increase the volume 
 of profitable products. Eventually, the game world grows and responds to your economic actions, 
 your reputation grows, and there's the chance to become the hometown mayor or even take on league 
 missions to build new towns. For anyone keeping track, Patrician III isn't much of a sequel. The 
 additions consist of some graphical effects and interface features, in addition to some new, beneficial 
 late-game missions, but the core gameplay still makes for a deeply intricate and challenging business 
 game.  

          Learn the motto 'Buy low, sell high.' and you'll get the guilders rolling in.     

 
  If Patrician III isn't as different from 2001's Patrician II as we might expect from a full-price 
 sequel, it's interesting to note that it was released as Patrician II Gold in Germany, which, in 
 turn, bundled in an expansion pack never localized in English. Of course, that won't matter for 
 most gamers in the US, who never saw Ascaron's games in stores back when they were self-published. 
 But for the record, let's look at what exactly  is  new in this version. The best new content comes 
 in the major missions you need to accomplish before you can step up as the League's leader, which 
 includes the chance to build two new towns from the ground up, the chance to set up land routes 
 between specific towns, or the chance to attack pirate bases. As for the core gameplay, expeditions 
 to the distant Mediterranean are easier and more profitable, the automated trading works better, 
 and the city-building side of the game now includes more civic buildings. Less noticeably, the 
 2D town and sea combat graphics have gotten a face-lift with the addition of seasonal weather effects 
 and new animations.  

  The essence of running a trading company is, no doubt, the same as it's ever been: Buy low, sell 
 high. Even though there are a number of ways to make money in Patrician III -- from building and 
 renting houses to sponsoring freelance pirates for a cut of the loot -- the game is fundamentally 
 all about trading, and this is generally your most profitable pursuit. Between starting out with 
 a single small ship and getting enough resources to organize your own convoys, it's essential to 
 micromanage your ships and transport goods between the game's two dozen towns. Although the game's 
 interface can take some getting used to and Encore's 15-page printed manual is entirely inadequate, 
 Patrician III's basic gameplay is simple enough. (Just be sure to check the disc for Ascaron's 
 PDF manual with details on more advanced topics.) While you might not already be an expert on the 
 geography of the Baltic Sea, the number of towns is manageable, and many have familiar names like 
 London, Oslo, and Hamburg. It's also not hard to figure out where goods are produced cheaply, since 
 clicking on a town brings up a list of its local products, and the best prices can often be found 
 by using common sense. For instance, there's plenty of wine in the Rhine region, whale oil can 
 be found in Scandinavian ports, and there are premium animal skins in the Russian trade centers. 

  Prices fluctuate dramatically, but it's always easy to see if the goods stored in your warehouses 
 or on a ship can be sold for a profit because the break-even price is always conveniently displayed 
 in the trading windows. When you move on to manufacturing to increase the volume of goods available 
 to trade, it's important to buy raw materials cheaply and to produce in high enough volume to make 
 the end product as inexpensive as possible, which helps to fatten your profit margins. Unfortunately, 
 it's impossible to get an estimate on the costs involved in manufacturing until the goods are already 
 in your warehouses, so sometimes, despite your best efforts, you'll spend time setting up industries 
 that are completely unprofitable. Another option is to hire a manager for your trade offices and 
 have him automatically buy or sell goods when they hit certain price levels. While this means you're 
 dependent on cities or competing traders to produce the goods, it can practically guarantee you 
 turn a fat profit on the transactions.  

          Starting with a single ship, you can build a trading empire that's connected by large convoys 
 on automatic trade routes.     

  New paths open up as you grow your trading company: You can join the local guild, establish trading 
 offices in other towns to maintain local warehouses, and build additional and larger ships. Your 
 larger goal isn't just wealth, but it's also power and social status. There are several levels 
 of social status that are dependent on your wealth and your reputation among the common and wealthy 
 residents of your hometown. Additionally, there's a hidden score that is improved by providing 
 needed goods, sponsoring public celebrations, upgrading local civic buildings, and by simply being 
 impressively wealthy. When you reach the rank of counselor or patrician, you can be nominated for 
 the yearly mayoral election. Once mayor, you're eligible to be elected alderman to lead the Hanseatic 
 League itself, but with official power comes the responsibility of building and maintaining the 
 town's defenses out of your own pocket. Fortunately, by this point it becomes much easier to make 
 large sums of money quickly as you group your trading ships together in convoys that can be instructed 
 to automatically run a set trade route.     

  Patrician III succeeds in creating a lively sense of Hanseatic League trade. There are many ships 
 owned by other merchants that come and go from ports and crowd the sea-lanes near key towns. The 
 many competing merchants have a direct effect on market prices, and as soon as they dock, they 
 can dump goods onto the market or buy up surplus goods, and they can drive prices dramatically 
 up or down just as you prepare to make your trades. However, these same merchants can be a boon 
 when you're trying to protect your ships from the pirates that hunt the open seas. Any ship can 
 join a public convoy for protection, but unless you've formed the convoy yourself, the destination 
 is set in advance. Although you're not the only merchant supplying the Hanseatic towns with the 
 goods they trade, distant towns often aren't supplied with all of the goods they demand. With sufficient 
 scarcity, towns will post contracts for large deliveries of specific goods at a fixed price, which 
 can be a quick windfall for high-margin goods, given how prices otherwise fluctuate so dramatically. 

          Once you're well respected, there are some major missions, like establishing new towns 
 and land routes.     

  Once your trading company grows to encompass more than a dozen ships and has several offices scattered 
 around the Baltic, you'll start to appreciate the limited automation built into Patrician III. 
 The most important such feature is the automated convoy trade route. This first requires a suitable 
 convoy flagship, stuffed full of arms and manned by one of the captains who are very occasionally 
 found hanging out in the port tavern (finding captains is one of the few reasons to look around 
 towns you visit, rather than sticking with the overhead map's trade screen) . With convoys, you 
 have the option to carefully set up a trade route by specifying exactly which goods to buy and 
 sell and the minimum and maximum prices to charge.  

  Trade routes demand a fair amount of effort, but by the time you get the option, you should have 
 a good sense of where you can get goods and what prices are appropriate. Routes can also be saved 
 for later use, or they can be exchanged on the Internet. A major convenience is that convoys group 
 the cargo space of several ships, so you can carry huge amounts of valuable bulk goods, like fish, 
 timber, or wool that often won't fit in smaller ships. Trade routes can even be tied into your 
 production centers -- by moving raw materials and finished goods around -- and then the automatic manager 
 can sell products off whenever the price hits certain levels. Set things up right, and watch the 
 guilders roll in. Unfortunately, the system isn't all that flexible. It can't adjust the sale prices 
 as your costs fluctuate, and it can't check to see if the market price is above cost. As a result, 
 you always have to be vigilant, even if the system does remove a lot of micromanagement.  

  To break up the rhythm of trade and to inject a sense of danger, there are pirates that cruise 
 the seas, and encounters can be resolved automatically or in manual battles. The ship combat is 
 a minor part of the game, especially when compared to Ascaron's Port Royale or Pirate Hunter, and 
 is quite rudimentary by comparison. The four classes of ships can be customized to trade cargo 
 space for more room for weapons, which consist of catapults and medieval cannons. A consequence 
 of the low-tech weapons is that the battles can be quite slow, and there aren't tactical options, 
 like various ammo types, to keep combat from being anything other than a slugfest.  

  The interface is well suited for making quick transactions on the regional overview screen, and 
 it also lets you jump to a detailed view of the city. The 2D graphics are generally colorful but 
 unremarkable and can't be zoomed to varying levels of detail. The game simply doesn't look as good 
 as Ascaron's Port Royale or Pirate Hunter. This is particularly true of the ship combat, which 
 uses 2D ship sprites instead of 3D models. Furthermore, the water is very flat-looking. The audio 
 is somewhat sparse but cleanly recorded, with occasional sound effects in the ports to remind you 
 of bustling cities. Music also cuts in for certain locations or events. The game runs in real time 
 at an adjustable speed, and it can now be slowed down to a crawl to let you pour over financial 
 statements at your leisure.  

          Medieval ship weapons don't have much firepower, nor do they make for interesting combat 
 in Patrician III.     

  Patrician III is a successful blend of trading and city-building, and the dynamic world and late-game 
 missions mean you can spend dozens and dozens of hours building a trading empire. Although the 
 game is so fundamentally similar to Patrician II that those who own the previous game have little 
 reason to pick it up at full-price, the feature additions refine the open-ended gameplay by removing 
 some of the micromanagement and by providing more significant milestones to achieve later in the 
 game. While building a town from the ground up is an expensive proposition, it's quite satisfying 
 to see how the trade dynamics change as a result -- and it's nice to have yet another outlet for 
 your own products. Anyone looking for a new dose of the long-distance trading found in the Railroad 
 Tycoon series and space trading games should enjoy the intricacy and challenge that Patrician III 
 brings to the table.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (6 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: SalikTirmizi
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 29, 2008 1:37 am PT
Review:  This is the first time i have ever played this kind of game although already tried games like theme 
 park, hospital series and many more this particular game is very different from anything Ive played 
 before its very unique it possesses strategy, simulation and management game play. From the start 
 its very slow to get grips on it once you are ready then its amazing to manage the way you want 
 to do. there are many different options to play and test as progress through it Campaign it also 
 has single player mode which is like Sandbox .
  while you are playing there is very simplistic sea Battle which engages when your ship is under 
 attack from pirates. there are lots of things you can do suppose you can join the Guilds, make trade, expand 
 towns, to become mayor much much more. this game is Definite buy for strategists who prefer light 
 hearted atmosphere with deep and complex gameplay 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chickidy001
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 30, 2008 7:26 pm PT
Review:  Few are likely to know of the Patrician Series, but why would they? Its a charming, challenging 
 business game that would disgust most modern gamers who find the shallow, skin deep pleasure of 
 violence found in first person shooters and their like more interesting than that of the depth 
 of this game right here. I myself enjoy such games, but I have a secret pleasure to be found only 
 found in such an amazing game as this.
  
  Graphics are outdated but it is a pretty old game, however the game play is unlike anything else, 
 and in a good way. You are a trader in the Hanseatic League, an association of free cities in feudal 
 Europe who are supported, owned, and ran by traders like yourself. You start out in one of the 
 twelve Hanse Towns as nothing more than a mere shopkeeper with a ship, a few men aboard said ship, 
 hardly any notoriety with your home town, a small fund of beginning Cash, and ambitions that reach 
 the sky. First order of business, increase your standing with your home town and make a good amount 
 of money to lay down framework for your trading empire. Simply support the needs of your Home towns 
 citizens by buying what they need at towns that make the good for cheap prices, and selling them 
 in your home town for a profit and a little more respect from your fellow man. Of course you can 
 buy goods produced in your home town and sell that in other towns for the sake of money, for as 
 the worlds first capitalists you Hanseatic traders already know the simple equation of Money=power. 
 Through this trading you gain knowledge of successful trading patterns for your ships as well as 
 respect with the towns you are buying and selling with, perhaps even gaining enough respect to 
 gain permission to build a trading office in their towns vicinity, allowing a whole new range of 
 business opportunities for you, not to mention the invaluable ability to trade with the town without 
 your ships present allowing you to buy at the most opportune times.
  
  Gaining a substantial amount of cash and new standing in your hometown will help you, but in order 
 to truly be successful you will need creativity. Joining merchant guilds, searching the taverns 
 across the land for captains, hiring administrators for your offices, and constructing businesses 
 in your office-towns to allow you to sell goods at production price rather than retail price are 
 only a few of the things you will need to do to be successful, all while increasing your funds 
 and standings, eventually gaining rank of councilman in your hometown and getting some real power!
 
  
  As a councilman you can propose things like improving town defenses, expanding town walls for more 
 protected space and such, as well as influence the decisions of both your town council and the 
 Hanseatic league, which has its capital based in Cologne, a wise place to build an office to always 
 be there for a vote on things such as boycotts. After becoming a truly enigmatic figure in your 
 hometown you may run for lord mayor of your free city and getting to manage town defenses directly, 
 as well as beginning to run things for the League, like founding new towns, forming pirate hunting 
 convoys and so on. And then there is the prince.....
  
  The princes are fat, stupid lords who rule through blood and brutality. They sit upon their regal 
 thrones and grow jealous as your cities prosper; and they, as well as bandits, will attempt to 
 besiege the free cities of the Hanse. Unlike the brigands however Princes can be dealt with, differently. 
 As a councilman you can begin dealing with these lords and should for the well being of your town. 
 Keep them happy with cheap [ goods and substantial trading and they will stay their personal armies.
 
  
  Then you may become a patrician, and eventually the Alderman of the Hanseatic League. But even 
 there it doesn't end, as new option open up for you. The fact is that this game has such depth 
 and attention to detail that it would be ridiculous to try and cover it all. Things like handling 
 sieges, suitors, underworld dealings, escorts, sea battles, Mediterranean trading posts, land routes, 
 production facilities, housing, and so on are all things you'll need to deal with. This game is 
 a medieval climb up the corporate ladder, and even at the top you'll find more to do. I did leave 
 one thing for the end though, probably one of the most useful (and fun) things in the game, piracy, 
 but you'll have to buy the game to lean about that. 
  
  All in all I found this game to be of a quality you'll rarely find anywhere else. This is the best 
 business game to ever be made in my honest opinion, and continues to provide me with quality entertainment 
 to this day.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Angle180
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 16, 2007 7:12 am PT
Review:  Patrician III is not the third instrallment of the Patrician series, rather it is a 700mb standalone 
 patch for Patrician II. The game is pretty much identical to its predecessor give or take a couple 
 of bugs and some more nifty gadgets added to the gameplay.
  
  If you're even a little bit interested in the idea of hanseatic seatrading, this game will completely 
 do the trick for you. Although not as beautiful as the other seamerchant games it's definetly the 
 most uncompromised experience. There are no shallow and boring rules or guidelines that would limit 
 your experience in any way. It's just trading within the borders of the hanseatic league in its 
 golden age. Patrician III doesn't stretch its limits to give the player some ultracool features 
 or megauberradical gameplay and it doesn't have to. Come to think of it Patrician III is pretty 
 much the same as Patrician II just because they didn't think anything needs to be changed and they 
 were correct because a player of Patrician III doesn't look for stuff like that in a game.
  
  Give this wonderful game a try. Just do it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wanzers123
Rating: 7.8
Date: Oct 11, 2006 8:15 am PT
Review:  This game take you to XIV, XV and XVI centurys.
  First you start whit a single ship or ships, trading resources whitin citys to make some gold
 
  When your economical power get stronger you can build your own industry in the citys and satisfy 
 th population necessities in order to reach the position of mayor, and then.
  Naval batles, well, have some fun but they get repetitive and the lack of boats types dosnt give 
 you a huge option of making diverse fleets.
  
  If you ask me, i only reccomend this game to those people who like this sort of game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: James_on23
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 30, 2006 3:06 am PT
Review:  This game is cool in its graphic, sound effect and it have many kinds of trading goods to be trade.. 
 the price for the good increase and decrease depands on the need of citizen.. so you can control 
 what is really going on..
  
  By the way, one of the most important things to tell is that you can be a pirate as well as hunting 
 down pirate.. But if you think that you are the 'man' after you hunt down a pirate, you are wrong 
 cause there are a lot more pirate for you to face later.. If you want to be a pirate, beside you 
 can attack trader, merchant and so on, you can also attack city as well.. So, this game is surely 
 cool and you can spend hours in front the screen playing this game..
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kellerwe
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 28, 2004 7:49 am PT
Review:  As far as empire building games are concerned this is certainly one of the better ones that I have 
 played - that is for players who prefer not to engage in battles with enemies and such all the 
 time but rather wish to focus on building their empires.
  
  The economic model included in this game is superb and very intricate, including all kinds of little 
 add-on's such as building your political career, bribery, pirates and even stealing from your oposition 
 players.
  
  The only thing that becomes very cumbersome in this game - especially later on - is the large amount 
 of micro-management one needs to engage in simply to make more profits. This applies specificlly 
 to the fairly repetitive movements of boats that one needs to manage manually (if a captain for 
 a specific boat cannot be found) .
  
  Other than that, the graphics are pretty OK and the gameplay in general very enjoyable. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
