-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Pax Imperia: Eminent Domain
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/paximperiaeminentdomain/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec  3, 1997
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.5
Critic Score: 6.0, 5 Review (s)
User Score: 8.2, 109 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: THQ
Developer: Heliotrope
Genre: Strategy
Date:     Oct 31, 1997

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
A great deal of the game's potential depth is sacrificed for the sake of speedy real-time action. 
 

 Traditional turn-based play is cast aside in Pax Imperia: Eminent Domain, a real-time galactic conquest 
 game that quickens the pace at the cost of its depth and complexity. Pax Imperia looks polished 
 and attractive more often than not. The main gameplay screens, easily accessible via the keyboard's 
 function keys, reveal valuable data regarding research, foreign affairs, domestic policy, and military 
 with clearly labeled displays and useful data. At other times you'll be examining the star map 
 and planning your course of action. This map clearly distinguishes all star systems, color-coding 
 those occupied by your forces as well as your enemies and allies. Meanwhile, the game sounds fantastic 
 on all fronts. Even simple menu acknowledgments are kind on the ears, while the soundtrack is a 
 stunning arrangement of synthesized mood tunes, which help keep you occupied for hours on end. 

 Clicking on a particular system's sun shows you the lowdown on all the planets in its orbit, at 
 which point you can decide whether any are worth colonizing or not. Don't take too long staring 
 at the sky, however. Soon enough your opponent will go moseying into your territory, looking to 
 expand his own. At this point you can intercept with your spacecraft and thereby declare war, or 
 attempt a more peaceful solution by pitching your new friend a treaty. You can set up a handful 
 of symbolic neutrality pacts with your opponents and exchange trade routes and other information, 
 but it's only a matter of time before he double-crosses you or you do the same. An exchange of 
 refueling stations is but an invitation for the enemy to ferry in his armada to the heart of your 
 empire to make a calculated suicide run against your homeworld.  

 The goal of Pax Imperia is the genocide of all who oppose you. Expanding your territory and exploring 
 new sciences ultimately serve only to further this dark purpose. When you get right down to it, 
 Pax Imperia is a race to colonize as fast as possible to grow more population to contribute to 
 further research and construction of newer, deadlier technology. With this in mind, the custom 
 species generation feature starts to look a lot less attractive. You may feel awful creative what 
 with your worm-like race of subterranean methane-breathing diplomats with a penchant for reproduction, 
 but once that predatory scientist warrior race comes breathing down your neck you'll be at a tremendous 
 disadvantage. Likewise, you can create a race that's very tolerant of adverse atmospheric conditions 
 and can expand its population quickly, but only at the cost of neglecting a scientific and military 
 advantage. So even as you quickly spread through the galaxy early in the game, a more discreet 
 but technologically superior race will research a warship capable of snuffing out your entire species 
 with little effort. Espionage can be used to some marginal success to cripple the opponent's progress, 
 but it turns Pax Imperia into a game of chance rather than skill; you'll be crossing your fingers 
 hoping the opponent's best planet turns coat on him all of a sudden, in which case he'll have no 
 alternative but to nuke it and recolonize.  

 Given the game's emphasis on technology and warfare, you'd figure a great deal of strategy in Pax 
 Imperia would reside in knowing just what to research when. Unfortunately, the game does its damnedest 
 to wrest researching control away from you by automating the process. Each time you begin a new 
 game, your scientists go straight to work on the EW-02 Gatling Laser and other low-level technologies. 
 You can focus your resources with emphasis on any of the five categories from weapons to colonial 
 enhancements, thereby compensating for your race's specific scientific advantages or shortcomings. 
 But in the long run you'll need to advance each category at roughly the same rate lest you find 
 yourself capable of constructing an all-powerful warship without any hope of actually paying for 
 its parts. For no good reason, everything is researched in ascending order of cost unless you manually 
 override the process. This means if some all-powerful gun is waiting to be researched in your potential 
 technology list, the game will build several lousier weapons beforehand rather than skip straight 
 to the good stuff. So in order to make intelligent researching choices, you'll constantly have 
 to jump to the research window and make changes. A research queue would have helped.  

 If the research component isn't brain-dead enough for you, you'll want to take a close look at Pax 
 Imperia's preposterous colonial management design. When searching for a new planet to colonize, 
 you needn't weigh in factors like gravity and atmosphere. No, the game calculates all that for 
 you, crudely ranking the planet with either a happy face, a neutral face, or a sad face as if to 
 suggest that you're not competent enough to consider advantages and disadvantages on your own and 
 require childish pictograms instead of specific data. You're also notified of a planet's basic 
 population limit and its natural wealth, but the rest is left to the imagination. Once settled, 
 construction on a planet begins immediately as your brilliant species starts working on the simplest 
 structure first. Colonies are completely self-sufficient and focus on constructing one structure 
 or ship at a time, though you can help them along with the rather abstract construction point subsidy 
 where you pay money to speed things up. You have no control whatsoever over which building will 
 be constructed next; while you can prioritize construction toward vague categories like Finance 
 or Espionage, if you really want to build an N-Space Relay you'll have to construct a Signal Resolver 
 beforehand. It's possible to go into the game options and create your own custom planetary construction 
 profiles outside of the default settings, but this is a tedious alternative to an obvious solution. 
 Adding insult to injury, every colony looks identical for every single species (that means huge 
 skyrises for your subterranean diplomats) , with the only difference being the color of the planet's 
 atmosphere.  

 Research, colonization, espionage, and diplomacy are terribly basic in Pax Imperia leaving only 
 ship design and combat to hold the game together. And indeed, the spaceship warfare in Pax Imperia 
 is enjoyable and strategic enough to keep you interested for many hours on end in spite of everything, 
 particularly if you're up against human opponents. At first you'll be limited to your stock Destroyer-class 
 warship, but given enough time your scientists will develop dozens of new toys for you to try so 
 you can produce a custom warship to suit any number of destructive purposes. You'll step up to 
 Cruisers in the midgame, which outclass Destroyers in most every respect, but by the endgame you'll 
 muscle in with a combination of Battleships and Carriers, which make for an interesting combination 
 of firepower and support defense. All ships can be outfitted with any number of weapons facing 
 fore, aft, port, and starboard. Each ship also needs an engine and a warp drive, armor, shielding, 
 missile countermeasures, and swivel-mounted point defenses. You can also outfit your craft with 
 miscellaneous add-ons from repair drones to fighter squadrons. The computer does a good job of 
 selecting the best combination of available components for a ship on its own, but it's more strategic 
 (and certainly more enjoyable) to create specialized designs from scratch. You're restricted only 
 by your scientific progress, your wealth, and the maximum capacity of the ship's chassis.  

 While you can readily defeat a low-level computer opponent merely by producing the largest quantity 
 of the best ship you can afford, you'll need more finesse to deal with a capable foe. A successful 
 fleet might consist of a pair of battleships devoted to antimissile point defense and long-range 
 planetary bombardment with another pair armed to the teeth with forward-mounted lasers and missiles 
 while several cruisers hover in back and soften the enemy with a combination of light and heavy 
 fighters. Combat resolves quickly and brutally, with opposing forces advancing upon each other 
 and blasting each other with everything they've got until one side is routed or destroyed. Most 
 of the strategy therefore lies in the preparation for battle, though the payoff is certainly in 
 a battle's successful execution as the screen lights up with beautifully animated sparks and explosions. 
 All this is not to say Pax Imperia's space combat is without shortcomings. Once a planet's orbital 
 defenses are knocked out, even the most hi-tech homeworld is left utterly defenseless as nothing 
 exists in the way of ground combat or surface-to-air attacks. Likewise, your ships remain perfectly 
 efficient in battle even as they are pummeled by enemy fire, and ammunition is limitless.  

 Pax Imperia is not an easy game to learn, in large part because you'll likely spend your first 
 few hours looking for research and colonization options that are not implemented. It soon becomes 
 clear, however, that a great deal of the game's potential depth is sacrificed for the sake of speedy 
 real-time action. To be sure, the real-time combat and management make for an enjoyable, fast-paced 
 multiplayer game as all parties involved struggle to strike that perfect balance of population 
 and research so they can build the best fleet first. But those seeking complete control over their 
 galactic manifest destiny will feel confined and frustrated by Pax Imperia's base gameplay.    
 
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (2 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: absolut_john
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 16, 2007 6:48 am PT
Review:  Pretty addictive - as i said - Great species adaptation, with plenty of choices, as well as choosing 
 how hard of a game you want, or how long you want the game to last by choosing size of the universe 
 to conquer.
  Loved the ability to design your own ships - Graphics were great for the day, and you catch on 
 quickly.
  I have some of the sounds downloaded like Access Granted - I don't agree with the Gamespot review, 
 since all you have to do is pause and you can control everything, then unpause and watch your plans 
 unfold. The ending does suck though - when you win, you just see a win screen saying you've conquered 
 the universe. End of game. Would have been nice to see some kind of pan-view of a massive fleet 
 moving off into the distance - Star Wars style -
  
  Couple of hints - use your transports early on to build a fighter carrier fleet. use guerilla tactics, 
 add 2 liters of coke and 4 hours, and you win. Just keep these lightly armored ships out of harm's 
 way.
  
  For planets guarded by mines, instead of picking through them, take a fast scout with a minesweeper 
 and send him zigzagging into the mines toward the planet. When you break free, head back out to 
 the upper right corner while the mines in range track you, and then move around the rest of the 
 screen, effectively taking them out of the fight. Send the rest of your bomber fleet in and annihilate 
 planet - just watch out for the long trail of mines. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GM_Link
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 28, 2007 6:54 am PT
Review:  As I sit here looking over the list of upcoming games this week, not at all too thrilled of whats 
 coming out, I delve into the games of past generation and not so recognized. It may be just the 
 fact Im bored here sitting at a computer too slow to run any current game on the market, or it 
 could just be the fact that I miss all the joys of being able to fully experience a space battle 
 game. Current space games are either you against the world shooting aliens or a silly spin off 
 of a famous television show or movie. But I bet you none of you have heard of Pax Imperia: Eminent 
 Domain before.
  
  Pax Imperia is a rarity to find these days and finding a computer that can run it is even harder. 
 But if you should happen to find a copy, get it and play it any way possible. Unlike any other 
 science fiction based game, Pax Imperia is strategy, espionage, and space battles all rapped into 
 one.
  
  Youll be able to start the game as one of a dozen of different species or you can have the opportunity 
 to create your own enhanced species. From there youll be able to select how many stars are in 
 your galaxy, and how many factions are there also. After selecting what your ships look like, your 
 flag, and the name of your faction, youre off to conquer the galaxy.
  
  The main focus is controlling the galaxy, which can be vast. Pax Imperia ensures that every time 
 you play, its a different experience. Youll start off with a scout and two transport ships that 
 you can use to colonize other worlds. From there, you can place orbital defenses incase on of the 
 other factions decides to go to war. Along the way, you can build up your fleet with scouts, transports, 
 destroyers, cruisers, battleships, or carriers. But hold the phone, you can use them all out the 
 get go. You also have a research and development team which is working behind the scenes to get 
 you new technology for bigger ships, powerful weapons, stronger shields, or advanced orbital platforms. 
 You also can influence them to research a particular field. Are your ships getting blasted out 
 of the sky? Try less researching on planetary upgrades and more on shields.
  
  Because this is also a strategy game, you cant have a large fleet and expect it to maintain itself. 
 Beyond colonizing worlds, researching, and building up a fleet you also need to worry about your 
 expenses. Colonizing more worlds will get you more money, of course. But they wont do it on their 
 own. Your R&amp; D team can also research planetary upgrades which can make the planet house more 
 people, construct things faster, or get you more money. The more planets, the more money in your 
 pocket, the bigger your fleet, its all one nice big circle.
  
  If that was the end of Pax Imperia, it wouldnt be worth it. But you also have to worry about the 
 other factions who need to meet their needs. Thats right, when you meet up with another faction, 
 you can make treaties with them which allow you to do many things. You can have monetary trade 
 and allow each others ships to move further into the system. You can have joint research or share 
 sector information with others. Or, if you really want to, go to war with each other. Sometimes 
 theyre the ones that will offer treaties or theyre the ones that go to war. But thats not all 
 you can do. Really dont like a faction? Why not try espionage? You can steal, subvert, sabotage, 
 and use black ops on any faction you feel like choosing. The only thing is you might not be always 
 successful. But why do the evil way when you can just trade things for information, money, tech, 
 you name it.
  
  Another interesting section of the game is that theres a leader for each of the individual sections 
 of your cabinets. Theres a leader for R&amp; D, the fleet, domestic, and espionage. You can promote 
 governors of different solar systems into these sections whenever you want. However the higher 
 percentage, the better chance you get at getting the most out of those sections. Say a governor 
 is not doing his job, and his qualities are in the negatives, fire him and get someone new in there. 
 Its your faction to control however you like it.
  
  Thats not all to the game? Remember the going to war aspect? After beefing up your fleets, you 
 can engage battle with other fleets or planets; just make sure you have the right tools for the 
 job. When engaging another fleet, the game will pause to allow you to battle the opposing forces 
 in real time. You have an array of options to choose from when you select a ship or ships, but 
 if you just want to sit back and enjoy the fight, theres a convenient auto button. Your fleet 
 can also bombard planets after taking out the orbital defenses; though make sure your fleet is 
 up to the task since they can be tough. Orbital defenses consist of minefields, fighter bases, 
 missile launchers, and battle stations. Fighter Bases launch miniature fighters, missile launchers 
 obviously launch missiles, and battle stations will fire any non missile projectiles whether it 
 is energy or bullet type weapons. After you clear them out, make sure you have bombs which can 
 destroy planet buildings.
  
  Ultimately the goal is to bring peace to every one in the galaxy, but there will be times when 
 war prevents it. An interesting part of this is that if you wipe out every last factions planet 
 and ship, that faction is no longer there, instead of coming back from out of no where. Since this 
 is a game from 1997, you really cant compare that much on graphics, sound, and game play of today, 
 but I will try. Graphics are pretty simple and wont bog down your computers. Simple sprites, some 
 three dimensional cut scenes, and thats about it. Its not just about ship battles, mind you. 
 The music is actually nice and captures what science fiction music is like today, without all the 
 techno beats. Gameplay is simple point and click. No button combinations, no joystick required, 
 just a computer screen and your mouse. Of course there are keyboard shortcuts to access different 
 menus, but thats about it.
  
  There is so much I can talk about this game its that good and none thats bad, but its not for 
 the simple gamers. The complexity of the game will be there from the very start. So unless you 
 dont start worrying about your finances from the very beginning, expect to lose some games. Pax 
 Imperia is also very time consuming and can not be finished in a couple hours. Some games may last 
 you the better half of an afternoon, others may be dragged out for weeks. Its a shame that such 
 a great game like this never got a chance for another sequel, just like how the first Pax Imperia 
 helped make this game. However, if youre looking for a great space game that will wrap you in, 
 go find this game any way you can. You wont be disappointed. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
