-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Pax Romana
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/paxromana/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jan 28, 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 4.9
Critic Score: 4.9, 14 Review (s)
User Score: 3.9, 41 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: DreamCatcher Interactive
Developer: Galilea Multimedia
Genre: Historic Turn-Based...
Date:     Nov 6, 2003
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
There's little reward for all the indirect management you have to deal with, and the terrible interface 
 sabotages the whole affair. 

  Rome wasn't built in a day. Setting the vast empire's boundaries took centuries of war, and at 
 times strong foes and political wrangling seriously threatened the burgeoning republic. In an attempt 
 to capture these dual challenges, Pax Romana ambitiously aims to combine the sort of strategic 
 conquest common to many games with a detailed modeling of the Roman republic's inner political 
 workings. At its best, the political model provides some insight into the inertia that can keep 
 a great militaristic nation from expanding and also makes for a much-deserved distraction from 
 the task of pushing legions around the map to put down rebellions and gobble up minor nations. 
 But as intriguing as this design concept may sound, the convoluted interface is difficult to learn 
 and navigate, bogs the political and economic game down in details, and hardly glues the political 
 and strategic halves of the game together. And then there are the technical glitches and poorly 
 executed graphics to deal with. The end result falls far short of being an enjoyable game.  

          Lead the Roman republic to ever greater conquests -- if you can get elected.     

  
 The box proudly declares that the game is "From the creators of Europa Universalis," and whatever 
 the details of this connection, Pax Romana's strategic approach is undeniably inspired by Paradox's 
 ambitious historical games. As in Europa Universalis, the map is quite large and covered with dozens 
 and dozens of competing nations -- many of which have but a territory or two and can hardly field 
 a defensive army. Rome has just a couple of historical foes that can stand up to its legions. With 
 the real-time engine counting the days away, you might move armies around the map, adjust administrative 
 and economic settings, raise new forces, engage in diplomacy, and go on the campaign trail. But 
 with Pax Romana's modeling of internal politics, just because you could theoretically make the 
 moves to lead Rome to glory doesn't mean that you yourself will actually call the shots. Specific 
 leaders assume responsibility for each of these tasks, and unless your faction's men are in positions 
 of leadership, your role is limited to watching others make the big decisions.  

  The six political scenarios let you choose from six factions, and unless you pick the weakest of 
 them, you're practically assured -- once you figure out the system's intricacies -- of regularly placing 
 faction members in at least one of the major offices open in annual elections. But fighting other 
 factions over the four main offices -- two consul posts, an economic post, and an administrative 
 post -- is just one basic step. The consuls aren't as powerful as you'd think, and the other posts 
 give you access to a limited number of management options, some restricted to the core territories 
 in Italy. Many critical things can only be decided in the Senate, like declaring war and peace 
 agreements, budgeting money to raise new legions, and setting the rules for appointing governors 
 to outlying provinces (Northern Italy, Spain, Turkey, and others, depending on the period) . Getting 
 your faction's soldiers appointed to army commands and governorships is essential to playing an 
 active role in Rome's expansion. The faction that controls a large army and can seize upon opportunities 
 to declare war on neighbors can benefit greatly from successful battles, which can bring in much-needed 
 influence and popularity points, as well as funnel gold into the faction's coffers.  

          Learn something about the Roman senate, or you'll never get to command the legions.    

  There's plenty of opportunity to use gold to buy bread and entertainment for citizens, bribe senators, 
 and generally gain influence in elections and during the senate sessions. But none of this ever 
 guarantees that things go your way, since other factions are often roughly as powerful, and factors 
 like influence and popularity are mostly hidden by the interface. Indeed, the fiercest fight in 
 Pax Romana is that between you and the interface. Even after going through the tutorial that walks 
 you through the 10 basic interface modes, it can take hours to figure out how to accomplish basic 
 tasks. Not only does the main map have four modes and many subscreens, but nearly all the political 
 activities take place on separate screens designed more to resemble scenes in Roman life than to 
 maintain any continuity to the interface. Inconsequential events (like the overly frequent notification 
 that a trade route is broken and is no longer earning your faction money) regularly pop up in front 
 of you, but there's not so much as a pause in the game for important messages, like corruption 
 trials that can put your leaders in prison.     

  If you play single-player grand strategy games because you like to take your time and think about 
 your options, the political forum screen isn't for you. Despite the fact that strategic events 
 happen in pausable real time, only once a year (on December 31) do you get to access a half-dozen 
 important screens, and you're limited to digesting them in just three minutes' time. This feature 
 might make sense for multiplayer games (which are hindered by the lack of a game browser) , and 
 it can be turned off -- but only if you happen to look in the game folder for a setup application 
 that controls those settings.  

          Pick your tactics, then sit back and watch two soldiers battle it out.     

  Of course, 
 it also doesn't help that the main map graphics are poorly presented, from the lack of clear national 
 boundaries in the military view to the jumble of information surrounding the screen that covers 
 up critical elements. For instance, a plebs score of "-40" looks just like "40" until you mouse 
 over it, so it's quite possible to suddenly lose the game by popular rebellion without getting 
 much of a hint, let alone any solid data on why things turned so badly just a few years into a 
 scenario. In challenging scenarios, money is often in short supply, but there's very little to 
 help you find profitable trade routes or manage the infrastructure investments you've made, so 
 administering your faction's property mostly involves pausing the game and clicking through every 
 territory. It's possible to turn on an AI manager to alleviate such micromanagement, but there 
 are no settings to guide it and keep it from investing all your funds and starving your electoral 
 campaign of needed bribe money. And with your attention focused on the year-to-year political events, 
 it's tough to figure out whether you're making any progress toward the sometimes abstract victory 
 goals -- if you even remember what goals were listed on the scenario briefing screen that only comes 
 up before a game starts.  

  For variety's sake, Pax Romana provides a separate strategic mode, which effectively disables all 
 elements of the political game and puts you completely in control. This much more conventional 
 way of playing might have obvious appeal to Europa Universalis fans with an interest in Rome -- the 
 gameplay is nearly identical -- except for the fact that the four strategic scenarios generally lack 
 polish and expose flaws in the economic and battle engine. None of the strategic scenarios features 
 enemies that are particularly challenging, and none lasts longer than 20 years, so there isn't 
 the freedom to engage in long-term efforts to completely rewrite history.  

  The combat system in Pax Romana is a bit more involved than in Europa Universalis and features 
 a screen where you can pick tactics and see the advantages of leader and cavalry bonuses. But the 
 actual battles are ugly, depicting one soldier repeatedly swinging a sword at another soldier. 
 The graphics change slightly depending on the nations involved but never give a clue that tens 
 of thousands of troops are supposedly on the field. During this gladiatorial matchup, esoteric 
 numbers slowly, slowly appear at the bottom of the screen that don't do anything to explain the 
 outcome in close battles. There isn't even enough information to tell for sure if it's a glitch 
 when your superior forces are all killed by a single opposing unit.  

          Earn bribe money with trade routes, if you can find any profitable ones.     

  If the 
 interface and various scenario glitches weren't enough of an obstacle, the overall production values 
 also aren't attractive. The 2D graphics are far from crisp, exhibiting the dots and dithering characteristic 
 of 256-color games from an earlier decade. The fonts in some of the text boxes are so small as 
 to be illegible, even when you're close enough to count the pixels -- adding scrolling to the boxes 
 was too much trouble, apparently. In a touch characteristic of the overall lack of polish, terra 
 incognita is represented as a pure white space to the north and east of Europe. No one expects 
 much from the audio in strategy games of this type, and at least Pax Romana meets these low expectations 
 rather competently, with suitable, repetitive sound effects and a militaristic soundtrack.  

  Pax Romana packs a nice concept, requiring you to manage internal politics and guide political 
 will before engaging in wars of conquest, but the execution is flawed and utterly lacking in polish. 
 The addition of the political layer occasionally makes for interesting minor victories, and it's 
 mostly a convenience to turn the policing of backwater territories over to AI generals. But overall 
 there's little reward for all the indirect management you have to deal with, and the terrible interface 
 sabotages the whole affair.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (0 Reviews)
-------------------------------------------------
