-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Penny Arcade Adventures: On the Rain-Slick Precipice of Darkness
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/adventure/pennyarcadeadventures/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Ridiculously funny.
 Captivating story.
 True to the source material.
 You get to kill mimes and clowns.
 Simple but fun combat.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Adventure elements are a little light.
 Only four different environments.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun 17, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.5
Critic Score: 7.9, 18 Review (s)
User Score: 8.5, 414 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Hothead Games
Genre: Adventure
Date:     May 21, 2008
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Penny Arcade Adventures is slick with rain, hobo stew, and all sorts of awesome, but it's for fans 
 of the comic's brand of humor only. 

  If the image of a fruit juicer having its way with a delectable-looking orange seems more offensive 
 than funny, Penny Arcade Adventures: On the Rain-Slick Precipice of Darkness may not be for you. 
 This is not just some generic trash stamped with the Penny Arcade logo; this is the long-running 
 webcomic seamlessly realized in video game form. From the sometimes poetic but mostly vulgar humor 
 to the vibrant art style that somehow drips with both blood and goofy joy, the guys at Penny Arcade 
 have entered the format that they have spent so many years lampooning, and have delivered something 
 that could withstand even their wicked barbs. The chance of it converting detractors of their traditional 
 work is about as likely as that burlap sack containing something other than hobos, but that's to 
 be expected. The Penny Arcade guys made a game just for their fans, and it's really darn good. 

  When your home is crushed by a giant robot (known as a Fruit Fornicator in polite company) , and 
 there are mimes overflowing the streets, who could a person in need possibly turn to? If you're 
 living in New Arcadia, there is only one choice: Gabe and Tycho, founders of the Startling Developments 
 detective agency. Controlling a customizable character decked out in the latest fashions from 1922, 
 you join up with the duo to sniff out the dirty underbelly of this panic-stricken town. The underbelly 
 waffles between smelling like hobo stew, urine, and dead crabs, but that's all in a day's work 
 when you're dealing with fallen gods. Or at least that's what Gabe and Tycho seem to think.  

 
           The most efficient way to rid your neighborhood of mimes is with a rake.      

  The story is the real star of the show here, but there still has to be some action to string these 
 events together. The combat and light puzzle-solving aspects provide the necessary interaction 
 to make this qualify as a full-fledged video game, but they exist more as another way to deliver 
 PA's unique brand of humor than something that will lure action fiends searching for their next 
 hardcore fix. Battles are mostly turn-based and, though you don't have a ton of different options 
 to take down your dirty, silent, or mechanical foes, it's still entertaining. The game ensures 
 that you won't zone out during these battles by sprinkling them with the requisite disgusting and/or 
 silly attacks. But what happens when the humor fades? Sure, it's funny watching a person dressed 
 in olde-timey clothes whack a clown with a rake, but how does the game keep you interested after 
 you've already seen your enemies combust into a smear of colorful paint? Action commands, of course. 
 If you hit the space bar before an enemy attacks (its life bar will flash briefly) , you'll either 
 absorb the blow or let loose a counterattack. On the offensive side, the power of your special 
 attacks is determined by how good you are at completing minigames. Frantically slamming on the 
 space bar or trying to match your key presses to the corresponding icon may not provide icing on 
 this delicious cake, but at least it adds inoffensive meringue to the lemon pie.  

  The detective aspects also contain more fluff than substance, but end up happily driving the humor-mobile 
 without any shortage of gusto. Your brain is required only to appreciate the humor, not to solve 
 complex puzzles. Most quests that you embark on simply require the elimination of a specific type 
 of enemy in your immediate surroundings. At other times, you'll have to bring a specifically requested 
 item to a distressed individual. There aren't any puzzles that require you to combine junk to make 
 something worthwhile or even any that make you choose the appropriate item from an assortment of 
 random parts. In short, don't play this if you are craving an old-school adventure game. Though 
 the world is littered with objects that you can examine, taking a closer look will dish out more 
 jokes about New Arcadia rather than give you clues in which to solve this case. This is a game 
 designed to make people laugh; anything that could detract from the goofiness has been left on 
 the cutting-room floor.  

           You'll come across many gross substances in New Arcadia.      

  Though Penny Arcade 
 isn't a technical tour de force, it still looks mighty fine even on the lowest graphical settings. 
 It's no surprise that the 2D cutscenes look just like their Web-based counterparts, but the 3D 
 world in which the majority of the game takes place looks equally impressive. The rain-slick streets 
 are dripping with detail (among other things) , and the assortment of new characters radiates just 
 as much personality as long-running staples from the comic. It's a shame that PAA contains only 
 four unique areas; what's there is gorgeous, but there isn't quite enough variety for a game that 
 can last 10 hours. The voice work is well done when present, but the hilarious narrator unfortunately 
 clams up after the first act. It's understandable that Gabe and Tycho would communicate solely 
 through speech bubbles, but to do away with the narrator so soon into the journey leaves too many 
 silent junctions where jokes could have been inserted.  

  If you're still trying to figure out if you should drop $20 on this game, the only real question 
 you have to ask yourself is: Do you like Penny Arcade? Fans of the comic will find more than enough 
 here to justify the sizable price of entry. The rest will find only simple combat and shallow adventuring 
 if the humor doesn't tickle their fancy. If PAA had been able to construct a great adventure game 
 around the fantastic humor, this would be a must-buy for everyone. In its current form, those looking 
 for a mature melding of humor and role-playing may be disappointed, but Penny Arcade fans and those 
 willing to accept repugnant humor into their gaming lives will love it.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (19 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Caveman712
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 29, 2008 9:18 am PT
Review:  Compared to Strong Bad's Cool Game for Attractive People, Penny Arcade Adventures offers a much 
 more serious (though with constant touches of humor) and deep gameplay. For those of you who are 
 sick of the retarded characters of Strong Bad' Cool Game and its overly-monotonous point-and-click 
 routine, Penny Arcade Adventures is definitely worth your time.
  
  The unique artwork of the game captivates me, along with its comic-like frames and layout. The 
 ability to customize the main character is a great plus, though the choices are somewhat limited.
 
  
  Combat provides much more depth that it appears. The combat system is very easy to learn, yet at 
 the same time, sophisticated. Various moves and team combos, along with the "Overkills" made skirmishes 
 against fruit-mating robots and mimes much more lively and fun. What is interesting is that the 
 combat is not purely turn-based. With correct strategy and timing, a player can launch much more 
 attacks than the opponents. One of those strategies I created is "Cat-stalling", where the player 
 can spawn the seemingly ultra-weak cat (only 1 damage) not to inflict insane damage to the opponent, 
 but to give time for Gabe, Tycho and the player to recharge the special attacks, triggering massive 
 specials, triple team combos - your call. Battle animations are flawless. The sight of Gabe throwing 
 his book and blasting clowns and hobos with his abnormally-sized machine gun - or the main character 
 scraping mimes with a rake - pleases me to no end.
  
  Graphics is not the strongest aspect of the game. The 3D models of the characters and the environment 
 are rather edgy - the outcome of the use of the Torque engine. But let's look at the bright side 
 - you don't need GeForce 9xxx or Radeon 4xxxx series to run the game smoothly. 
  
  Sound is decent enough. Penny Arcade provides good-ol'-days soundtracks, in coherent to the time 
 setting of the game. However, sound effects are sometimes repetitive, but don't worry - the addictive 
 gameplay will overcome this issue.
  
  Other minor issues are the inability to free roam after defeating the final boss, meaning every 
 extra stuffs and the cases have to be collected and finished BEFORE the final boss, and the frequent 
 lack of hints to solve the cases - but that's just me. The game is not particularly long (5-6 hours 
 for me to finish the game, which includes collecting extraneous stuffs) , but at least it's better 
 than Strong Bad (only 2-3 hours, and yes, including worthless extras and mini games) .
  
  Overall, the game is fairly decent for non-Penny Arcade fans and is in the "must-play" list of 
 the Penny Arcade freaks. Waiting for the third and the fourth (final) series........ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kanderstag
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 12, 2008 9:49 am PT
Review:  I bought the linux version and it has been a relative treat on the Ubuntu machine. I love that 
 it's native linux supported and it provides a somewhat better level of entertainment than the other 
 free games. Definitely the game is much better, but nothing special on the windows side. And I'm 
 not too particular to the whole trading shots, one at a time, style of gameplay. It's like colonial 
 warfare... let's march out onto a field and just stand there while we trade shots with one another.
 
  There is some nice humor in the game. 
  
  It didn't captivate me though, between working on other computers and now Mass Effect, I have not 
 finished this game. Just the same, I'm content knowing I spent $20. I'll probably buy the second 
 episode too, if for nothing else than to support linux gaming. I don't like the whole wine concept, 
 but beggars can't be choosers, eh? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gelugon_baat
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 3, 2008 7:34 am PT
Review:  I played this game and made this review some time after Strong Bad Episode 1 came out. While it 
 might not do this game justice if I compared it to the latter, which was released later, this review 
 is made from my perspective and since I played it after the other game came out, I have to size 
 them up against each other sooner or later. (But don't worry, Penny Arcade fans, this is to Penny 
 Arcade's benefit - and Strong Bad's detriment.)
  
  The game introduces me to Penny Arcade's oft-kilter and graphical humor first. The fact that the 
 main character that you designed before the story starts apparently have a unique appearance of 
 his/her own pleased me. While the game does use rather cheap Flash-like cutscenes, many game developers 
 aren't bothered with making additional models unique to your character design, other than simply 
 using the game engine to animate your guy/gal/creature/robot.
  
  Next, is the rather unique art style. If what the webcomics have shown is true (which it mostly 
 isn't) , Mike "Gabe" Krahulik's touch is an appealing one-of-a-kind. The lighting effects made it 
 even better to look at.
  
  Then, the combat and its associated animations. Everything moved quite fluidly, and every attack 
 animation - especially those of the player characters - are awesome. Hitting and gutting mimes 
 with a buffed-up eldricht RAKE has never been so fun. Wait - it has never been. There's no hero/heroine 
 that used a rake before, and it's probably even weirder than a yuppy vampire that uses a mailbox 
 as a club. (PS2 fans, you know who I am writing about.) Moreover, making perfect damage hits a 
 feature actively dependent on the player is a good design decision that keeps players' fingers 
 always twitchy - though it would probably alienate older, less responsive players who also happen 
 to be avid followers of the webcomic. (I could just imagine Tycho hollering at jerks who flamed 
 Penny Arcade about this feature: "Then DON'T play this game, you slow f**king retards!")
  
  Unfortunately, as the "8.0" score says, this game isn't without some flaws that I perceive - or 
 this game just ain't rubbing me the right way, if Gabe is reading this instead of Tycho. (I wanted 
 to give 7.9, but the slider works in a weird rigid manner.)
  
  I would first state that I have seen webcomics that are as equally vulgar as Penny Arcade's, but 
 vulgarity doesn't matter as long as (most of) the comic updates are humorous and gets the point 
 across. Penny Arcade satisfies that, and the humor translates well to its game. Kudos to you two.
 
  
  However, a third of the dialogue - half of this being those of the main character's - is just lacking 
 in Penny Arcade humor. One part is the player's attempts at rankling the Mime Lord. Are these written 
 by Gabe? If so, please, Penny Arcade, don't let Gabe do any of the writing for the next episode! 
 Let Tycho do the f**king writing, and Gabe stays in Character Design!
  
  Speaking of character design, Gabe and Tycho may have made their computer versions too cool. So 
 cool that their webcomic counterparts just look rash, crude and mean by comparison. Gabe in particular. 
 Come on, Gabe, from your webcomics, I know you like to glorify yourself - and this video game you 
 is just AWESOME - but you just made your webcomic you look very f**king lame.
  
  I also noticed that the game makes a lot of references to the webcomics, such as the mostly forgotten 
 eggplant that was shaped like Abraham Lincoln's head (with top-hat) and the references to hats. 
 Come on, the webcomics parodied video games a lot, so maybe the next episode should do some pop-culture 
 reference, like Gabe's (early webcomics) obsession with Pac-Man or the Mario spoofs. Sam & Max 
 did one Mario spoof, and it was awesome! And they are family-friendly! Just think how high Penny 
 Arcade's spoof will shoot through the roof and beyond!
  
  Okay, that's all. Normally I would write a more sober and professional review for other games, 
 but just for yours, Penny Arcade, I am doing it with several cans of beer. Just don't hate my review 
 and put it up in your webcomic under one of those "syntax correction specials" you do whenever 
 some jerk's comments really pis*ed you off.
  
  P. S. Strong Bad's attempt at making a video game really sucked compared to yours. You can send 
 a flame mail to those f**kers screaming "You've blown your chance at video game stardom big time, 
 you f**king losers!" and attribute it to me. But then again, I may be just drunk. Please ignore 
 this post-script. Hey, I only compared Strong Bad to this game in the post-script! Maybe that's 
 an indication of how terrible their game is: nothing more than a footnote. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: YeahYeahYouWere
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 28, 2008 11:44 am PT
Review:  First, I'll save everyone some time - if you don't like PA (Penny Arcade) , you won't like Penny 
 Arcade Adventures: On the Rain-Slick Precipice of Darkness Episode One (OTRSPODE1) . If you don't 
 know if you like PA, then I suggest you go check it out to see if you like it.
  
  Now, if you like PA, you will in all likelihood really enjoy this game. The humor is very much 
 the same between the site and the game, and the personalities of the PA characters Gabe and Tycho 
 (and their creators) really stand out in the game. This really goes a long way in the game - the 
 characterization, despite not being very fleshed out, feels robust, because fans of the site already 
 know the characters. The third character (yourself) , is not as robust, but since it's supposed 
 to be you, it's not a deal breaker.
  
  However, one area of the game that fails to shine is the character creator. The options are sufficient, 
 but not stellar. All of the characterizations fit the theme well, but the color options seem limited. 
 On the whole, the creator is a bit disappointing, but it is certainly livable.
  
  The only other major gripe I had with the game was the total dependence on the mouse for gameplay. 
 As someone who prefers console to PC gaming, I found the use of the mouse for all input to be rather 
 annoying. I prefer to move with an analog stick or number pad, rather than by clicking the mouse. 
 Also, to perform an action, you have to click the attack button by the character, then go click 
 the enemy you wish to attack. I would have vastly preferred some sort of keyboard interface, which, 
 if it existed, I could not discover. After an hour or two with the game, I had pretty much made 
 the adjustment, but over the course of the game the controls never did quite feel right to me.
 
  
  Having pointed out the few shortcomings, I would be remiss if I did not then point out the many 
 strong suits of the game as well. As mentioned previously, the characters were strong, having already 
 been familiar with them from my PA fandom. The settings were fun as well, though admittedly there 
 were few of them as the game itself is quite small (after all, it is episodic in nature and this 
 is but episode 1) .
  
  To me, the two pillars on which this game was built were the art and the humor. The art is simply 
 fantastic. If you are a fan of the PA art style, the game incorporates it perfectly. The effort 
 of the PA crew is evident in the final product, as the environments and characters fit the style 
 of the comic absolutely perfectly. Again, if you are not a fan of the PA style, you may not find 
 the art to be as appealing. For PA fans, however, it rings true and is a true strong point for 
 this game.
  
  The humor is, again, directly from PA. It is not always appropriate (in fact, it rarely is) , but 
 it is almost always funny. Once again, the characters of Gabe and Tycho fit their comic counterparts 
 perfectly, and fans of the comic will not be disappointed. I found myself laughing out loud a lot 
 during the course of the game, and there was nary a moment when I didn't have at least a cheeky 
 grin on my face while I played. In the end, many games that claim to be "funny" simply are not, 
 but OTRSODE1 definitely was.
  
  In the end, it boils down to whether you are or are not a Penny Arcade fan. As a fan, I found the 
 game to be very engaging - I wanted to play more and I am anxiously anticipating the second episode. 
 If you do not like Penny Arcade, you will not like this game. Of course, if you needed me to tell 
 you that, you might just be an idiot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lovely_beauty
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 25, 2008 1:22 am PT
Review:  Penny Arcade is a famous webcomic by Jerry Holkins and Mike Krahulik which tells mainly about gaming 
 industry. Now, under the development of Hothead Game, the two leading roles Gabe and Tycho will 
 have a new story in Penny Arcade Adventure: On the rain-slick Precipice of Darkness (PoD) , the 
 first of Penny Arcade Adventure series.
  
  PoD sets its background in an fictitious city called New Arcadia in 1922, the period when industrialisation 
 continues in Europe. The central character is a normal civilian living in the suburb of New Arcadia. 
 One morning, he has just finished cleaning his house when a robot suddenly appears and destroyes 
 everything! In order to discover the incident and reclaim his properties, he decides to join with 
 two detectives Gabe and Tycho in the battle against these destructive robots and the figures behind 
 them.
  
  In general, the content of PoD does not stray far from the familiar "Doomsday" motif. However, 
 the inclusion of many "steampunk" details (science fiction) , some hilarious (maybe a little vulgar) 
 dialogues and an original narrative art has made the game remarkable in Role-play genre.
  
  In the beginning, players can choose gender, appearance and an outfit for their characters. Each 
 category has about 4 options - quite enough for a game of modest capacity like this (300MB HDD) . 
 Game play of PoD employes the turn-based mechanism abundant in Japanese RPG. In turn, a character 
 has three choices: use items, normal attacks or special abilities. However, one weird thing is 
 that in order to carry out one of these three actions, two others have to be recharged before the 
 turn. Moreover, Hothead Game also adds several real-time movements to make combat more lively, 
 like pressing space bar in time to block an incoming attacks. Several mini-games which can help 
 a character increase his damage are also included. These small factors not only make turn-based 
 game play more dramatic but also speed up players' manipulation, consequently requires more concentration.
 
  
  Though PoD succeeds in drafting an exciting game play, the difficulty level it offers is blameworthy. 
 If some may feel it challenging to encounter the "Fruit Fornicator" at several starting levels, 
 these robots soon become pieces of cake before the unbelievable power of 3 main characters. In 
 addition, regardless of how much hit point a character has left and how many characters fall down 
 in a battle, the whole group will recover their full hit point bar whenever the fighting is over. 
 This rule not only makes PoD much easier, but also reduces the need for exchanging and purchasing 
 new items. It seems like we can collect everything we need from the trophies, from bandages, medicine 
 to weapons.
  
  Of course, PoD follows the quest-based model like any other RPG. However, you may get disappointed 
 if expecting a huge number of quests in this game. The quest collection of PoD is limited, too 
 familiar and linear. Most of the time in game is spent on finding some items, investigating and 
 advancing the story line through chatting with NPCs. Fortunately, the interesting narrative may 
 keep most players from getting bored or feeling confined before the end.
  
  Unlike the plot and game play, graphics in PoD is truly amazing, simple but still expressive. Cel-shading 
 has become so ordinary to most of us that it is hard to attract gamers by merely using the technique. 
 But the developers of Hothead Game have found a way to use it to retain the impression of the webcomic 
 in 3D environment of PoD. Another surprise is the quality of the cut scene. Though built in 2D, 
 they can easily surpass 3D in game graphics due to the facial features of all characters which 
 look much more realistic. When the story comes to a dialogue, a small frame will appear at the 
 bottom of the screen to display the subtitle and the face of each participator in the talk. The 
 changes of emotions on their faces are carefully synchronized with what they say, bringing us the 
 most interesting moments with this game.
  
  The most considerable point in sound part is the voice-over. It is flowing with so much emotion 
 that we feel as if the narrator were a character in the whole story. After "ranting" forcefully 
 for a while, the narrator suddenly lowers his voice after "realizing a mistake", and timidly corrects 
 it. This small trick keeps making me laughing from time to time. It's a pity the dialogue of all 
 characters, including Tycho and Gabe are only displayed in text.
  
  It is a long time since the last time I found a mildly entertaining game like PoD. Though it employs 
 many existing techniques, the developers have shown an effort to bring something new to this game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bleigh316
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 21, 2008 8:21 am PT
Review:  Seems like you either like Penny Arcade or you don't. At least that's what I kept hearing in reviews 
 for On the Rain-Slick Precipice of Darkness. The people behind the web comic teamed up with Hothead 
 Games, creating an episodic point and click adventure RPG, starring Penny Arcade's duo of Gabe 
 & Tycho.
  
  The premise to Precipice is simple, your created main character lives outside of a city called 
 New Arcadia in the 1920s, when all of a sudden a gigantic robot walks through your house, followed 
 by the PA duo. From there you take up your trusty rake and chase the robot down, eventually pairing 
 up with Gabe & Tycho, joining their detective agency to find the robot. As it always seems to be 
 the case, along the way other cases come up and something large and threatening looms on the horizon. 
 Along the way, you engage in some RPG active turn based battles & solve a few mysteries all while 
 attempting to locate a new place to live.
  
  The gameplay is pretty straightforward. Its pretty much a point & click adventure game, along the 
 lines of Sam & Max or the Monkey Island series, but instead of puzzles, you engage in turn based 
 battles like in an RPG. The battles are more active based than turn based. Each character has 3 
 options, items, standard attack, special attack. But each has to be charged up to use it, and one 
 has to be charged to use the next, so items charges first, then the standard attack charges up, 
 and you can only use special attacks when the other two are charged up. Its a simple battle system, 
 yet its fun, as the attacks are cool (especially your created characters' rake) , you can double 
 or triple team on special attacks, and you even get a couple support characters you can use every 
 so often.
  
  There isn't much variety to the enemies you fight, let alone the locations you visit, but they 
 do look nice and are drawn well. You pretty much fights robots, homeless people & mimes, but watching 
 them attack can be funny, especially the fights with the mimes. There are only 4 areas to explore, 
 which means near the end it can be irritating, but considering Precipice is not a very lengthy 
 title (5ish hours) , the lack of locations is forgivable. Besides, for a downloadable title (on 
 PC, Mac or XBLA) , you're still getting good value for your money.
  
  On the Rain-Slick Precipice of Darkness is the first title in from Penny Arcade and Hothead Games. 
 Its not a very long game (though it has a long title) , but what's here is fun, if you're looking 
 for a basic point & click adventure RPG. Its fun, and funny, and definitely worthwhile for fans 
 of Penny Arcade. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pork_Lord
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 5, 2008 8:33 pm PT
Review:  Throw some good humour into a game and you've instantly added a whole lot of charm and replayability. 
 Couple this with solid game design and entertaining characters and you've got Penny Arcade Adventures: 
 On The Rain-slick Precipice Of Darkness Episode One (here in known as OTRSPOD) . Not just an excessively 
 long title, OTRSPOD is a short yet content filled role playing adventure and the first of a four 
 part episodic series.
  
  If you've neglected the works of Penny Arcade I'll try to get you up-to-date. Penny Arcade is easily 
 the most popular gaming comic on the web, and for good reason. The creators Jerry and Mike (not 
 actually named as per their comic persona) do a great job at incorporating offensive yet poignant 
 humor against some big and some minuscule gaming issues. Universally considered some of the internet's 
 greatest gaming critics, it's interesting to see them push out a game of their own intellectual 
 property and creative input so a respectable level of quality is expected from those who continually 
 pan the works of others.
  
  OTRSPOD has no hesitation in establishing a strong steam punk setting opening in the fictitious 
 locale of New Arcadia, 1922. After taking a moment to create a character from a small but variable 
 set of face and clothing features a short intro does a great job of incorporating the player's 
 character into some impressive 2D footage of an undesirable turn of events eventually leading to 
 meeting some obvious partners, Gabe and Tycho.
  
  The first installment of Penny Arcade Adventures melds elements of different genres here and there 
 to create a mutant adventure / role playing game that works quite well in practice. Outside of 
 battle players must navigate and interact with a large assortment of environment pieces and NPC's 
 to solve puzzles and progress through the story as per most adventure games. In fact the puzzle 
 solving side of OTRSPOD is a tad lacking as all interaction is played out entirely through left 
 clicks. There's no, "Pick Up" or "Use", it's just left-click, left-click resulting in a severe 
 lack of challenge on the progressive side of things. In fact it's not really puzzle solving, playing 
 through OTRSPOD outside of combat is nothing but left-clicks until progress is found.
  
  A lack of puzzles or general thinking is soon countered, as OTRSPOD is crammed full of dialogue 
 and humor that most the enjoyment is gained by sitting back and chatting to all of the wild characters 
 such as the "Urinologist", who actively studies urine by marking his territory as far as possible. 
 Actually the game has a strange consistency with sophistication in narrative that's often followed 
 by low-brow offensive humor against more colloquial writing. Kind of like my reviews.
  
  While OTRSPOD has enough of that classic Penny Arcade humor to flesh out the adventure and make 
 it worthy on it's own, brushing up on some of the online comics wouldn't hurt if you were new to 
 the content, as Penny Arcade most certainly give their humor a more 'adult' twist. Considering 
 the first event to occur in the game is the attack of a giant 'fruit bleeping' robot I hope this 
 is exemplified as something you wouldn't want kids playing, despite it's obvious cartoon appeal.
 
  
  Set across 4 different locales, OTRSPOD involves a lot of click click clicking around the place 
 to unlock progress, so in-between this hunting and chatting around New Arcadia a good amount of 
 combat is needing to take place too. Combat is played on a turn-based RPG style with some arcade 
 elements to spice things up against the more classic RPG battle systems. You'll have your three 
 team mates, Gabe, Tycho and your own persona battling against a variety of hobo's, fruit bleeping 
 mimes and more.
  
  Combat is a mix of old-school turned-based ATB combat against more arcade button mashing game styles. 
 Each character can do the same 3 moves, use inventory, attack, or unleash an overtime attack but 
 not before the latter becomes available. Each command timer needs to fill up one after the other, 
 so you'll be able to issue Gabe an inventory command, but that will reset his timer and he won't 
 be able to attack until his inventory command becomes available again, then his attack bar will 
 begin to fill up. This involves a lot of patience, as waiting a full three cycles for an overtime 
 attack can take some time while the attack command is sitting there blinking ready to use. One 
 down side to this combat system exists and I'm not quite sure if it's intentional or a game flaw. 
 For your attack command to charge up, your inventory command must be ready. If you click it just 
 to browse your items and see what you can use, your attack command will cease charging up. So while 
 everyone is just standing there doing nothing and you're browsing inventory, whoever you're looking 
 at is going to be losing some battle progress while the other two party members progress normally.
 
  
  As Inventory is always the first command to become available, it's fitting that there's a very 
 large amount of in-battle items to pick up throughout the game. Gabe tends to recharge his abilities 
 quicker than the others, but only has fists as a weapon often resulting in little damage. This 
 means it's best to have Gabe continually using items throughout battle while the other two characters 
 let their overtime or regular attacks charge up. The overtime attacks can be paired up too, if 
 another or all of your party members also have the overtime ability ready it can be used together 
 for extra damage.
  
  The overtime attacks are what really spice up battle a bit as they are usually played out with 
 the space bar to maximize damage. Either spamming space bar or pressing it at appropriate times 
 results in a better attack, so in-between waiting and thinking out your attacks sudden bursts of 
 space-bar mashing adds some interactivity and excitement to what otherwise would be a too laid 
 back affair.
  
  There's a large number and a lot of versatility in items, from defense raising and attack lowering 
 to stuff like oranges to distract Fruit Bleepers while you let your moves charge up. Eventually 
 you'll find characters work better per enemy, so again you'll have to think out who uses which 
 items, on who, and when.
  
  There's no spells or skill trees to branch out on, and little leveling takes place. This is obviously 
 due to the episodic nature of the releases. I assume you'll be able to be able to play Episode 
 2 without having owned Episode 1, so unless Episode 2 instantly boosts default characters I don't 
 know how transferring or continuing on your custom built character is possible from this first 
 episode.
  
  This is where OTRSPOD is lacking a bit. Any sense of character evolution or expansion is lost in 
 the length of the episode. OTRSPOD is priced respectively, ultimately forming a valuable package 
 as it's a cheap quick download for a short but content filled game. The combat is fun, the story 
 is fun, but you know eventually it ends a bit short once you really get familiar with combat. There's 
 a few mini-games thrown in at Pelican Bay to unlock 'tokens' for progress, but these are very underdeveloped 
 hardly shaping up to most the content found on that crap-barrel Newgrounds.
  
  The involvement of the Penny Arcade crew is quite obvious, and while Hothead Games have done a 
 great job at creating a worthy game there's a few things in OTRSPOD of extreme convenience that 
 are really noticeable and are obviously designed by true gamers. Such as the save system, the game 
 saves every five seconds. Talk to a mime, and get no response? Game saved. Another feature is being 
 able to instantly zap from screen to screen by clicking the border, as opposed to having to walk 
 across the screen as per most adventure titles.
  
  All up, this first episode of the Penny Arcade Adventures is certainly a worthy purchase considering 
 it's price mark. Sure it's short, but it has a lot of content that doesn't need much of your time 
 or patience to access. The puzzles are simple bordering non-existent but all the characters and 
 humor are there with enjoyable gameplay to make a package entertaining for anyone Penny Arcade 
 fan or not.
  
  Penny Arcade Adventures: On The Rainslick Precipice Of Darkness Episode One
  
  83%
  
  The 
 Good -
  
  * Lots of humor and characters.
  * Enjoyable and unique combat system adds new life to RPG's.
  * Cheap and easily downloaded.
 
  
  The Bad -
  
  * Questionable role playing progression against episodic releases.
  * Little challenge and interactivity outside of combat.
  * Oddly complex narrative against some 
 very crass humor. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: m0H53n
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 20, 2008 1:45 am PT
Review:  At the first look, it seems to be a really hard adventure with fantasy gameplay, but after just 
 10 minutes it is understood that this is a DUMMY GAME. I just have to say that i enjoyed playing 
 such game, but it suites younger players to play and enjoy.
  Player could interact with a few number of elements in environment, but it was satisfying. Animations 
 were just amazing and story was ... simple, direct and easy to understand.
  Turn-based fights are the good point of the game, somehow the most difficult and challenging fight. 
 If you fight with regular enemies during the game, there is no problem with killing them, since 
 there are lots of good items in crates and bins to find and use in battles. You don't need any 
 walkthrough even if you are a dummy adventurer.
  I rate this as "7.0". Don't miss it if you want to play a simple adventure. And if you are looking 
 for some hardcore adventure with mature puzzles and difficult questions, just forget this one! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ailaik
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 15, 2008 2:47 pm PT
Review:  Before I played this game, I never heard about Penny Arcade, hadn't read one single comic, and 
 to be honest, I still haven't...
  Yet, I really loved this first episode, and am dying to play more.
  
  Just so you know, usually 
 I really suck at RPG's in which you have to play with more than one character, having to remember 
 all of those abilities, items, etc. etc. 
  This game however, is so darn catchy, that it wasn't any trouble at all to get used to the battlesystem. 
 All you gotta remember is what type of weapon your characters have, and there aren't that many 
 different enemies, so it isn't that hard to remember their weaknesses either.
  And yes, there are items... but I only actually used them during bossfights.
  
  Anyway, the 
 gameplay is great, all the boxes/trashcans you have to smash to get items, respawn when you re-enter 
 an area, so if you have to refill on bandages, knock yourself out. The battlesystem is kind of 
 like the GBA/DS RPG's of Mario&Luigi, getting the timing right to block, or counterattack...
  
  I loved the graphics, ofcourse they aren't anywhere near Crysis, Bioshock, or whatever, but 
 they did their job: a nice cartoony style, which worked in 3D as well in 2D. Plus, I found it really 
 great to see my self-assembled character in 2 and 3D.
  
  The jokes really made me laugh, there are some brilliant conversations in the game, some people 
 might find them a tad long, but I liked 'em.
  
  What else is there to say about it...? Music! Yeah, there's music as well, which was pretty good. 
 It didn't really stand out or anything, but yeah, does it have to? I'd say no...
  
  Sooo, why ain't I rating this game with a 10? Well, the minigames seemed a bit off to me. They 
 were kind of fun, for a while, but somehow they didn't seem to belong there. It's not like playing 
 Whack-a-Rat in Sam & Max all day long. You'd probably wanna get them over with, instead of having 
 fun while playing them...
  
  That's about it, great game, with a great feeling to it, and a promising ending which makes me 
 wanting more. I hope you found this review usefull...
  
  Greetz,
  Joeri 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gam3r3OOO
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 4, 2008 11:03 pm PT
Review:  Disclaimers:
  If you don't know what Penny Arcade is: this game is probably not for you. If you don't like Penny 
 Arcade humor: this game is not for you. 
  Also keep in mind this game is only episode one (of four?) . So there are more to follow. If you 
 find fruit fu**ers offensive then this game is not for you. If you don't like profanity in your 
 games, look else where.
  
  I really liked the battle system. It was like Paper Mario, giving you the ability to tap a button 
 to guard right before an enemy hits. The difference here is: it is more forgiving. Depending on 
 your timing: you could counter attack, block, partial block or not defend at all (if you're late 
 on timing) . Attacking was also pretty good; you have regular attacks and special attacks. Everything 
 has been simplified from the RPG standard. You wait for your attacks to charge up to attack. If 
 you wait longer you can use a special move, very much like a guard break from final fantasy. Also 
 healing items have been simplified from the RPG standard. Instead of healing set amounts, they 
 heal percentages of your total health at increments of 25, 50, and 75 (sorry no 100% healing items) . 
 At the end of every battle your health is full and members revived. If you lose to an enemy you 
 can retry as many times as you would like and without a penalty (I never observed any lost items 
 from losing a battle) .
  
  The graphics are cartoony 2D for the cutscenes and 3D for most gameplay. They don't look bad, but 
 its no Bioshock. If you all the games you play have to be pixel perfect then this game is not for 
 you.
  
  The music was fitting for a comedy videogame such as Rain Slick Precipice.
  
  The game presentation was really good. When the game starts you are greeted by some great narrated 
 comic book cutscenes. The menu is simple and looks dramatic. Some parts of the game do get a little 
 repetitious, such as fighting the same foes over and over again. Keep in mind, there are no random 
 battles. Thats right, all the battles you do only happen once. But fortunately items do respawn. 
 
  
  There are some minigames, and side quests but not that much extra to take much more than a couple 
 hours. One thing that may make the game longer for you is: some enemies are hidden inside small 
 items. You may not know that they are there except that the item is hoping up and down.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kimo2411
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 29, 2008 4:30 am PT
Review:  On the Rain-Slick Precipice of Darkness, Episode One is one of the best games I have played , the 
 gameplay is fun , comics are fascinating , the music and sound effects are great and its kinda 
 funny :) ,its realy worth the 20 bucks so buy it ! , its a bit short though but its only 200 MB 
 so maybe thats the reason ! , I wonder if the game developers can make the characters hit multiple 
 enemies with potions and stuff in the next episodes because enemies can do that so why cant we 
 ??? and maybe they can make a longer game or something , but they realy did a great job with the 
 videos in the game , one of the best I have seen so far ,I highly recommend it and I am realy waiting 
 for the next episode On the Rain-Slick Precipice of Darkness, Episode Two or whatever they will 
 call it , hope to see it soon 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SolidStateMind
Rating: 9
Date: May 28, 2008 10:09 am PT
Review:  When I heard they were making a game, I really expected the PA guys to flub it somewhat -- although 
 I probably shouldn't have given how well they know what a good game is; still, there is a big difference 
 between simply knowing what a good game should be and creating one. I have very good news for all 
 PA fans though: they've done it, spectacularly even.
  The production values are uniformly high, the game has interesting mechanics that REALLY fit the 
 story and the atmosphere well, the storyline is at turns absurd and interesting (but always engaging) ; 
 honestly, it's far far far better than anyone had any right to expect from two guys who totally 
 own up to just being "gamer geeks just like you are".
  That said, it should be noted that it *IS* a true Penny-Arcade game: if you're not in-depth familiar 
 with the webcomic, you probably won't find it nearly as entertaining as fanboys will -- not saying 
 you wouldn't enjoy it, just the jokes might not have the same level of hilarity.
  Honestly, given what we by all rights should've expected from this, it is an amazing effort, and 
 **definitely** worth the $20! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ivory_soul
Rating: 8
Date: May 28, 2008 4:12 am PT
Review:  The Good: Top notch production values, excellent twist on RPG formulas, hilarious dialog and enemies
 
  
  The Bad: $5 dollars too expensive, extremely short, we have to wait for the next episode, shallow 
 character creator
  
  I was so certain this game was going to bomb, but I has been proven wrong. Penny Arcade is about 
 Gabe and Tycho who try to stop and evil and mysterious robot. The robot crushes your house and 
 you are then sucked into the adventure. I have to say first off the game is hilarious. PA actually 
 makes fun of RPGs throughout the game. While you run around everywhere you can click on things 
 and read funny notes about them, but what really is great is the combat. While the games isn't 
 random it is turned based once you get into the fight. Instead of selecting your attacks or magic 
 you have to wait for the three icons for each character to "boot up". You have an inventory icon, 
 then your basic attack icon, then you super attack icon. Each of these boots up at faster rates. 
 Some enemies may be vulnerable to your created character's rake attack (yes a rake!!) , some may 
 be to Gabe's fists, and some to Tycho's machine gun. This gives the game a great element of strategy 
 so you can concentrate on who attacks who (some are even invulnerable to super attacks, and some 
 are weak to even basic attacks) . The enemies are just great: Hobos, mimes, clowns, Fruit F^ckers. 
 The mimes use invisible weapons to hit you with just as a pretend grenade, pretend bow and arrow 
 etc. You can block these attacks with timed spacebar presses. Among the other funny shenanigans 
 you get items for combat suck as slick oil (reduces speed 50%) , items to increase defense, decrease 
 the enemies, health etc. The combat is just so fun you never get bored of it because you constantly 
 level up, and if you're lucky you may get an overkill bonus by doing super strong super attacks. 
 You can upgrade your weapons by finding weapons upgrade parts throughout the game. The visuals 
 are really great because they look just like the comic. They are vibrant yet dark (looks like a 
 Cthulhu setting more or less) . There are no voices in the game which is a disappointment, but then 
 again it could have ruined the comic feeling. The cut scenes are flash animations yet there aren't 
 enough of them which is too bad. On that note this game isn't worth $20... maybe $15 because you 
 can beat it in one long sitting or about 6 hours. No matter though everyone who has a sense of 
 humor and loves RPGs will totally dig this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fuzzuywuzzums
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 24, 2008 11:06 pm PT
Review:  This review is just one episode one, seeing as the other ones haven't come out yet....
  
  
  
  This game is really awesome. And funny.
  
  The game begins with your house being smashed 
 a giant robot. And two mysterious men chasing after it. Enough said.
  Everything in this game is really intuitive, like the combat system, which is basically selecting 
 your attack and then clicking on the enemy you want to use it on. There are also special attacks 
 that "test" you in different ways, depending on the character. For example Gabe's special move 
 requires you to press the space bar repeatedly to fill a bar, then press it again in a small bar 
 to successfully pull the attack off.
  The enemies are very funny too. Hobo's throwing beer bottles at you, or Mimes tossing "Pretend" 
 grenades are pretty different than what you'd normally see. And they all have pretty interesting 
 attacks, but you'll see a lot of them, and it may get a bit repetitive.
  The environments look pretty good too. Although there are only 4, in episode one that is. Each 
 has it's own feel and are put together rather well. Whether it be the hobo's sleeping in Hobo Alley, 
 or the Dead seagulls and Savage Clowns in Pelican Bay.
  The Graphics aren't necessarily impressive but they really fit the game, and are quite funny. The 
 game's movies are shown in a 2D comic book style , but the actual game is in 3D. 
  There's not much sound in this game, beside the music (which is really fitting to the levels) and 
 the occasional garbage-man singing a song about garbage.... You'll might hear a rare sigh, or scream 
 but otherwise it's pretty quiet.
  Overall this game is probably worth the money (I say this, because some people might not like it) 
 but the first episode is pretty short, I beat it in about 6 hours maybe less. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MetroidPrimePwn
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 26, 2008 9:46 pm PT
Review:  Penny Arcade Adventures: On the Rain Slick Precipice of Darkness is the first entry of a series 
 of episodic adventure games starring Penny Arcade's iconic web-cast in a gothic 1920's steampunk 
 universe. The game is available via download from the Greenhouse website, as well as being on XBox 
 Live Arcade. So, what makes this game worth your $20.00?
  
  A lot, actually. The most important aspect of a traditional adventure game is its story, and Penny 
 Arcade Adventures is certainly not lacking in this area. The story begins with your self-created 
 protaganist simply minding his own business, raking the leaves on his front yard, when a giant 
 "Fruit Fornicator" robot comes by and stomps his house into Oblivion. From there, Comic-Book like 
 2D cutscenes guide your character into a journey with the web-comics main characters, Gabe and 
 Tycho, along an escalatingly intense story that delves into much darker and more mysterious matters 
 than just a simple revenge quest.
  
  The story of the game is littered with bouts of Penny-Arcade's famous humor. It has flat out puns 
 complete with character driven punchlines as well as gags hidden within environment objects that 
 you could miss. There are also several moments of genuinely well-written serious dialogue, as well 
 as several moments of "Oh snap, that was awesome!" moments in the storyline. Fans of the series' 
 humor will no doubt enjoy the game's storyline and humor, while those who don't will probably still 
 be entertained by the dynamicly unfolding tale.
  
  Like many other modern adventure games, Penny Arcade Adventures has a very simplistic but generally 
 appealing artstyle. Characters and environments in the game are good 3 dimensional translations 
 of their 2D counterparts in the cutscenes, and everything is given a general cartoonish appearance. 
 The game also looks fairly good on a technical level, with an overall smooth appearance and almost 
 no framerate issues. In all, the game has a very good visual style about it.
  
  The part where Penny Arcade Adventures differentiates itself from most traditional adventure games 
 is its combat. Precipice uses a pseudo-realtime queue based attack/combat system. Each battle starts 
 with a "Roll for Initiative", with the character/enemy who gets the highest number getting to start 
 the battle first. Each character or enemy has multiple attacks, which must be fueled up by waiting 
 differing periods of time before activation. Inventory items are also used in real-time, just as 
 attacks are. Special attacks are often driven by well-timed button combos. The combat system results 
 in a good combination of turn-based tactics with real-time frantic action. The end result is a 
 very enjoyable and sometimes difficult combat system which ends up being one of the main sources 
 of entertainment in the game.
  
  Overall, Penny Arcade Adventures: On the Rain-Slick Precipice of Darkness adds up to be the start 
 of another enjoyable episodic adventure game, whicch also brings something new to the table in 
 the form of a well-implemented combat system. It is recommendable to just about anybody, from series 
 fans and RPG veterans to general humor lovers and casual gamers. It's only seven hours long, but 
 Precipice is seven hours of some of the most enjoyable entertainment you'll ever find, and this 
 is a series that adventure fans will definetly have to keep their eyes on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Smileyshouse
Rating: 9
Date: May 24, 2008 4:11 am PT
Review:  I haven't finished playing this episode and I am already hoping Episode 2 isn't far away, If I 
 have a complaint about this game it is only that it has an end to it. I admit to being a huge penny 
 arcade fan, they appeal to my sense of humour and I really enjoy the artwork. This game is plastered 
 with both of those things and as a result it rocks my jocks : )
  
  If you don't like Penny Arcade then odds are on you wont like this game, but that doesn't make 
 it a bad game. The combat system is easy to use and quite fun, some of the attacks are rather funny, 
 especially the special attacks. 
  
  Some irritating things are boxes that you have previously broken re appear if you re enter the 
 zone and sometimes the pathing of the characters can be a bit odd.
  
  All in all for what it is, what it delivers and what they are asking for it I consider my 20 bucks 
 to be money well spent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vodka_7up
Rating: 8
Date: May 22, 2008 11:56 pm PT
Review:  Penny Arcade Adventures: On the Rain-Slick Precipice of Darkness is a comedy/horror side scrolling 
 RPG set in 1922 Arcadia. The world is sorta like World of Darkness where giant fruit **** robots 
 ruin random houses, and a lot of other strange things happen. The protagonist is pulled into the 
 conflict with the supernatural when his/her house is destroyed by a giant robot; in the monster's 
 wake, you meet up with Gabe and Tycho, the only members of the Startling Developments Detective 
 Agency.
  
  The game has you take the roll of a character of your own creation which I found to be awesome, 
 considering it has unique facial expressions during the comic strip sequences. Journeying through 
 the city of Arcadia is done from fixed camera angles which make you feel like you're running around 
 in a comic strip, or playing Comic Zone. Items frequently spawn throughout the stages stored in 
 random garbage cans and crates ensuring you'll always have a steady stream of items. After every 
 battle your health gets fully restored, thus regulating restorative items for purely combative 
 uses. These two features add a comforting level of ease to the game which allows you to focus on 
 the brilliant world known as Arcadia.
  
  As for the world itself, it's fricken great. I love the fact that this is a comedy, and everything 
 you encounter, from fights to dialog, has a certain lol factor to it. Nothing beats fighting Fruit 
 **** Robots, Diabolical Mimes, and violent Hobos with Gabe, Tycho, as company. Every conversation 
 is like reading an issue of Penny Arcade, but this time you don't have to wait two to three bloody 
 days for the next issue. The comedic insanity has "tainted" every aspect of this game, but that's 
 what makes it so great and refreshing; like Medieval 1 and 2.
  
  I have to say the combat system of Precipice is awesome. Battles start with an initiative roll 
 to decide who goes first, and then the standard time bar fills. Here's the twist: different actions 
 require less or more time than others; items are the least, attacks follow, and then special attacks 
 are the last. The spice comes in the form of space bar; no, not a bar in space; the space bar button. 
 All of your special attacks utilize some form of fast paced button hitting like bashing space bar 
 a ton of times, lining your hits up with the target, or hitting up down left or right when the 
 game prompts you to. You can also block attacks by hitting space bar; the tricky part comes from 
 knowing exactly when to press it which only comes from practice. With all of these factors present, 
 including the fact that everything is done in real time, combat is a very enjoyable part of the 
 game that's not only comedic, but quick enough to keep you on your toes.
  
  All in all, Precipice of Darkness Episode 1 is an excellent RPG that'll provide an interesting 
 story while keeping you laughing and entertained along the way. The game is a tad short, but definitely 
 worth the investment. Simply put, nothing on the market is like it! Think of it like Killer 7 and 
 No More Heroes - ya just got to try it. Here's hoping the next episode comes out soon!
  
  For more reviews and ramblings check out http://gaugingtherift. blogspot. com/
  and thanks for 
 reading 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fokus24
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 22, 2008 9:52 am PT
Review:  Funny, original, and well executed. Its hard to find any faults in this game. The length is short, 
 but to be expected. The most important aspect of the game is that . . . its just fun to play. I 
 guess if you don't like penny-arcade humor then the game probably wont appeal to you very much. 
 Putting that aside, its a freshing title in a time where the major developers are rehashing old 
 ideas with little innovation other than graphics. ie: Assassin's Creed, GTA IV, Halo 3. I am hard 
 pressed to come up with anything that needed work. And the current gamespot critic review is 6.2?
 
  
  The combat system worked well.
  It wasn't too short/long.
  Its not repetitive
  Its not frustrating
  It was original.
  It wasn't 60$ = 9.5 (the only reason its not a ten is 
 that no game is perfect)
  
  Oh yeah, that -0.5 will be for episodic releases. I'm just not a fan of those. But thats just personal 
 preference. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FlawlessSeasons
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 21, 2008 2:43 pm PT
Review:  Final Fantasy Crystal Chronicles: My Life as a King? Ha, that's not the only long titled downloadable 
 game with a super long name, try Penny Arcade Adventures: On the Rain-Slick Precipice of Darkness 
 Episode 1. Eh? Pretty long right? I thought so.
  
  If you are unfamiliar with Penny Arcade, that's a shame, and I suggest you go to www. penny-arcade. com 
 right now, start at comic one and binge yourself on it until you read them all. Penny Arcade is 
 arguably the most popular and influential video game web comic on the net. Among other things "Gabe" 
 and "Tycho" head the PAX expo and the Child's Play charity. With the launch of PAA: OtRSPoDE1 yeah, 
 they also launched Greenhouse with is a Internet launching platform for Episode 1 and probably 
 more games in the future. So its safe to say, the guys over at Penny Arcade are heavily involved 
 with all things video game, and have finally launched their debut game.
  
  PAA: OtRSPoDE1 is a game that takes Final Fantasy like battle RPG mechanics with the classic Penny 
 Arcade humor and just comes out with a great, funny downloadable RPG. The game starts with your 
 character being told by a ominous voice to rake up your yard and almost instantly your house gets 
 crushed by a giant Fruit ****er (don't report me, that's what it actually is called.) You see 1922 
 versions of Gabe and Tycho following after it and you're soon to follow. You eventually meet up 
 with them to get involved with a whole big adventure that has a bunch, and I mean a bunch of little 
 Fruit ****ers. 
  
  Game play is a active battle system RPG, this means there are no turns, its just when you're attack 
 gauge is ready, you attack. A lot like mid series Final Fantasy games, see? Anyways, it doesn't 
 get much more complicated than that. Despite fairly standard gameplay, what really shines through 
 here is the humor. One of the first items you'll find and use in battle is a "distraction orange" 
 which when thrown the Fruit ****ers will well you know, they'll do what they're named to do. 
 The game is really just flat out funny. 
  
  If you've looked at my profile, you can see that I've reviewed both the PC version and the Xbox 
 360 version. Why? Because for some reason I bought the game for my Macbook Pro and Xbox 360, no 
 idea why, I guess I just wanted to spend money? Anyways, the reason why I gave the 360 version 
 a slightly lower score is the control. The game handles a lot better with a point and click mechanic 
 rather than the 360 game pad. That's all that's really different; over all they're the same game.
 
  
  While the price point is high, I do believe that this game is worth it for any Penny Arcade fan 
 or RPG fans who just want a light hearted episodic game to play.
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
