-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Penumbra: Black Plague
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/penumbrablackplague/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Natural puzzles solved by manipulating your environment.
 Tense and creepy atmosphere.
 Great music and sound effects.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 A little short, even for the bargain price.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Feb 22, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8
Critic Score: 7.9, 30 Review (s)
User Score: 8.1, 656 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: GamersGate
Developer: Frictional Games
Genre: Horror Action Adventure
Date:     Feb 12, 2008 &raquo;  
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The Penumbra series comes to a close with more creeps and physics-based puzzles. 

  When last we left Philip, the protagonist of last year's first-person horror adventure Penumbra: 
 Overture, he had just been knocked out cold in a dank underground lair. This sudden cliffhanger 
 was just about the only truly annoying moment in Frictional Games' freshman effort, though, because 
 the Swedish developer did yeoman work setting up both a macabre mood and puzzles rooted in the 
 real world. Now, the series comes to a close with Penumbra: Black Plague, a superb sequel that 
 continues with the creeps and common-sense conundrums.  

           Bloody hints can be found everywhere, indicating what is likely in store for you if you 
 don't escape the underground.      

  As with Overture, the biggest selling point in Black Plague is the physics-dependent design. The 
 Lovecraft-influenced story about a young man investigating an underground base in Greenland -- apparently 
 contaminated with some sort of infection -- is decidedly weird, but not nearly as original as the 
 puzzle design. Everything in the game is based on real-world logic, but not the Bizarro World nonsense 
 that dominates traditional adventure games. All of the problems here are tied to accurate physics 
 and environments that are packed with objects that can be directly manipulated. There are no pixel 
 hunts, no running around to pull a dizzying succession of levers, no directing laser beams at mirrors, 
 and no slapping tape on a cat to make a moustache. Here you simply explore spooky underground settings 
 to try to escape by picking up and sliding around boxes, rocks, chairs, crates, flares, or other 
 sorts of detritus.  

  Every action you take is modeled on real-life movements. To open a drawer, you've got to use the 
 mouse to click on the handle and then pull the mouse back to mimic sliding it open. Doors are opened 
 the same way, with a click and a pull. Throwing a switch is accomplished by grabbing it with the 
 cursor and then sliding the mouse downward. Wheels are turned by rotating the mouse. These sorts 
 of motions can be a touch finicky at times, especially when hauling around long objects, such as 
 planks or shelves, that get too easily snagged on doorways and walls, but they do a fantastic job 
 of underlining the reality of your situation. Philip's body is even a part of the simulation because 
 you have to be careful not to step on objects that you're trying to drag. Unlike so many other 
 first-person games where you're basically just a formless mass behind a camera, here your character 
 has real presence.  

  Puzzles are similarly realistic. Rather than collecting bits of random junk as in a typical adventure, 
 you deal with situations as they come, utilizing only objects at hand to solve problems. This switch 
 can actually be awful tricky to deal with if you're an adventure-game veteran. It's hard to believe 
 that all of the tools needed to get past a barrier like a locked door are laid out in front of 
 you so clearly. So you can spend many minutes crawling around looking for the trick or gimmick 
 that bars your way in traditional adventure games, never realizing that the first step to a solution 
 here is often as simple as picking up a rock to smash open a door, throwing a plank over an abyss, 
 or ripping a wire out of a circuit box to kill the power that is keeping a door locked. You still 
 need to take a good look at your surroundings for hints and MacGyver your way through a lot of 
 locked doors, but there are no ridiculous leaps of logic. Anyone with a dash of patience and a 
 pinch of common sense should be able to finish the game without recourse to a walkthrough.  

  This true-to-life design also makes Black Plague damn scary. With everything so rooted in reality, 
 it's easy to lose your sense of place and feel like you're really stuck deep underground. The visuals 
 are a few years behind the times, although in some ways, this actually enhances the grimy look 
 of your subterranean prison. Also, most of the textures are reasonable, given that they're not 
 pushed to depict anything more sophisticated than rusty walls and bloodstained floors. Because 
 you spend all of your time fumbling around in the dark, anyhow, audio is more important than the 
 visuals. Black Plague delivers here, with sparse sounds like distant whispers and rattling that 
 could either be right beside you or far off in the distance. Atmospheric effects and music are 
 just disorienting enough to keep you on edge at all times.  

           Closely observing your surroundings and making use of everything you come across are vital. 

  All of the irritating cheese from Overture has been stripped away too. Both combat and stealth 
 mechanics have been pretty much entirely eliminated from the game. You can still fight when necessary 
 and duck into the shadows to dodge enemies. But there are no more frustrating dealings with patrolling 
 dogs and no need to try to swing a pickaxe into a skull. The latter is most welcome because the 
 decidedly unfriendly battle interface from the first game made the occasional scrap with those 
 demon dogs a real pain. You do run into hostile creatures every so often, although these occasions 
 are few and far between. Gruesome sentries show up just often enough to maintain tension. Hiding 
 out for a few moments is generally all that's required to ditch baddies, which leaves you alone 
 to deal with puzzles for the most part.  

  The one big drawback with Black Plague is that it ends rather abruptly. Any experienced adventure 
 gamer can wrap the game up in four or five hours, which makes it a little too brief even for its 
 bargain-bin price tag. Such brevity and a dissatisfying conclusion might be more forgivable if 
 a third Penumbra was on the way, but this sudden finale is a bit annoying given that this is the 
 end of the line for the series. Nevertheless, Black Plague is fun while it lasts and definitely 
 recommended for anyone who enjoyed the first game.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (33 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: flclempire
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 17, 2009 4:14 pm PT
Review:  Basically this game is like Overture, but with all the crappy things (stupid enemies, combat, too 
 much trial and error, ect) removed and much more added.
  
  Theres too much for me to write about for this small review so I'll keep it short.
  
  Good:
 
  1. Excellent atmosphere (best of any game, maybe) with excellent scares.
  2. The characters, good and bad, are really interesting. Some of the characters are even revealed 
 to have caused events in Overture, such as the Dogman dragging the Spider-Lover off.
  3. Decent length.
  4. The scary moments are pretty ruthless. There is a part where you think you're 
 going to have this guy saw off his hand and give it to you. You feel surely safe.... And then you 
 don't :) My heart literally stopped there, totally unexpected, and I didn't die! So its not unfair, 
 imo.
  5. Clarence :)
  
  Bad:
  1. Semi-confusing ending, I'm not quite sure why he sent the email he did. Was it his Mankind instincts 
 taking over? Who did he send the email too? ect
  2. Once you experiment with the Grey you learn how to easily dodge their attacks.
  
  Overall:
 
  One of my favorite single player games now. I literally couldn't stop playing this game. I wanted 
 to spread out my play time so I wouldn't beat it in a single day like I did with Overture, but 
 it was just too immersive and I kept coming back every other hour and finished it in a day : (
 
  I'm just waiting for the developer to come out with their new series now, I'm hooked on their 
 stuff. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: asafs16
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 31, 2008 3:50 am PT
Review:  you thought F. E. A. R was scary?
  you thought DOOM was scary? 
  you thought RE4 was scary?
  
  well guess again... from all the horror games i have played in my life and belive me i played 
 in a lot of horror games, PENUMBRA was the scariest game ever!!!, really scary music and allways 
 dark when i played there were times when i farted non-stop beacuse i was scared and there were 
 times when i stoped the game went out of the room to relex a little and back in
  PENUMBRA IS THE SCARY OF TOMORROW, the greaphics arent that good like crysis, bioshock and more... 
 but its pretty good after all this game was made buy a small group of students, its a great game 
 that combine two things: HORROR, and, SHYCOLOGY , you need to think alot in order to proceed to 
 the game, the only problem in the game is that: to short, there were times when i was happy that 
 it was short beacuse it was so scary
  
  but now i think that if the game was longer it was even better, in this game all the bugs have 
 been fix and its really better than the last game
  
  im happy that in this game there isnt weapons "at all" that is one of the things that make the 
 game so scary!!!, youll have to run and hide and throw things like rocks and cans in order to survive
 
  
  great game!! if you are a real horror type man you will have that game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rombie1234
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 7, 2008 12:07 pm PT
Review:  I first played this game at an internet cafe for about 20 min I found it interesting, I have never 
 tried physics based adventure puzzle game let alone many puzzle games. I spotted it at a gaming 
 outlet for 20 bucks so I decided to give it a go.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are surprisingly decent, from a small company, from 1 CD (not DVD) I wasn't 
 expecting much but it really surprised me. I'm not saying there great but they defiantly put some 
 work into it. The lighting and shadows give the game that creepy feel as it should. The physics 
 impressed me as well, turning handles opening drawers, doors, cranks, levers it was all so simple 
 yet solid and it felt as if you were actually doing it instead of hitting "the action button".
 
  
  Gameplay: The atmosphere of the game is dark and gloomy. You feel as lost in the world as your 
 character does in the game. The puzzles although not all that challenging do require common sense 
 and reading. The puzzles are also unique and refreshing with the combination of physics, and are 
 defiantly entertaining. You shouldn't get stuck for too terribly long on any given puzzle which 
 makes the game run along smoothly. This could be a bad or a good thing depending on if you're a 
 hardcore adventure gamer or not. 
  There are some problems. First and foremost the combat, there virtually is none. If you run across 
 an enemy you're expected to run away and hide which is rather easy to do. But alas I found myself 
 here and there getting cornered by enemies and him repeatedly hitting me and me not being able 
 to get out of the corner and eventually clipped outside of the wall or dieing. Clipping, rare as 
 that may have been it was still an issue, maybe if they implemented a way for me to push my enemy 
 it may have gone better. Oh by the way it takes forever for them to actually kill you, which gives 
 you plenty of time to escape but not a way of dealing with them.. Some enemies you can get rid 
 of creatively but I would have liked to see a way of disposing of ALL enemies, instead of simply 
 running from them. With that said I would not like to see a weapon in the game, as frustrating 
 as that was putting a gun, knife, or any weapon would have taken away from the sneaking element 
 of the game and the need to improvise.
  
  Sound: the music was great and matched the environment. Ingame sound effects were ok nothing especially 
 notable. The voice acting was good, a small amount but good. Clarence's personality seemed well 
 developed and added comical relief to a dark situation.
  
  Story: the story was pretty good although I didn't get all of it because I haven't played Penumbra: 
 Overture. Its dark and mysterious, at first then you start to get the picture of what has happened 
 in the facility. You see news clippings, e-mails, letters, that put another piece to the puzzle, 
 it unfolds quite nicely. There is a lot of reading but its pretty standard with the genre. There 
 are a few typos that I did notice but nothing that makes it illegible.
  
  Other notes: I've never heard of this company before but they seem to be on par with some of the 
 bigger names. I was very impressed with all that they have done with this particular game and all 
 for $20! An unbeatable price for what you get. I believe that physic based adventure might revive 
 the genre for people who were never interested. I look forward to more games like this. The game 
 is somewhat short but I strecthed it out over a couple of weeks. If you played nonstop I'm willing 
 to bet you can complete it in less than 6 hours
  
  note note: the installation process was rather, erm primal. you plop in the disk and all that's 
 on there is your setup. exe and when it installs you can see all the textures its putting in some 
 that reveal plot lines, so I suggest while its installing step away from your computer for a bit.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cristyrazvan
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 18, 2008 10:23 am PT
Review:  Every real gamer loves horror-adventures, and Penumbra series is a must play.
  After playing Penumbra: Overture i felt really sad. It was over, and not really. The captivating 
 adventure ended, leaving place to a continuation, that i had no idea when was to come and how great 
 was it going to be.
  But finally Black Plague came alive and the mistery was about to be revealed.
  At first i had 
 a frustrating feeling, not being able to fight back the monsters, as in the first episode, but 
 soon it became more interesting evading them, then trying to destroy them :)
  It all started great, continued great, ended great! Actually, it's sad it ended... i could have 
 played it on and on and on...
  I just hope that there will be other games as captivating as this one, coming from the same producer, 
 and that they won't just vanish without bringing us some more hours of thrilling adventure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pickles23
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 10, 2008 7:40 am PT
Review:  This is my first review and i like to review my games by seeing if they accomplish what they are 
 supposed to do, for example this game its a puzzle solving horror house does it accomplish in scaring 
 you and making challenging but not extremely hard puzzles: Yes. Though of course its gotta get 
 points for graphics, sound level design things of that nature so heres my review of Penumbra: Black 
 Plague
  
  Penumbra: takes off where the last penumbra left you wondering what the hell happened. This time 
 instead of a mine your trapped in an underground lab where strange creatures roam around and you 
 have to try to escape using your sense of insight. For those of you who don't know what insight 
 is its the ability to use past experiences to solve new problems. This is a similar puzzle solving 
 game-play to half-life 2. The game still uses the ability to grab and manipulate objects to use 
 them to solve these puzzles. This time around though, you not going to be faced with enemies you 
 have to fight in order to get by instead you don't fight them at all you just have to use your 
 wits to get past them, so theres no weapons. This is a change for the better because you don't 
 have to desperately click and hold your mouse and move it to swing your pick-axe at a wolf or any 
 other creature you fought in overture. The graphics in this game are nice and the lighting in the 
 game create the really creepy atmosphere. The sound is excellent, as you walk down long creepy 
 hallways, or running for god knows what. Its got plenty of scary moments that make you want to 
 turn on the lights and say its only a game, in all the games gory and scary glory though theres 
 some comic relief. Theres a character that names himself Clarance who is the virus that infects 
 your mind and talks to you and makes wise crack remarks about us humans and things. Thats the good 
 now for the bad the game doesn't have you interact with people just like in overture you'll read 
 diary's and hear them but never see them. The manipulating of objects can be a little hard because 
 they tend to rotate in the air and sometimes don't go in the position that you want them to, the 
 last thing thats wrong with it is that you'd really appreciate it more if you played the previous 
 penumbra and realize how the story fits together. so thats my review of Penumbra: Black Plague. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JazzVoid
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 31, 2008 7:43 am PT
Review:  Never thought that a PC game can be scary. Played dark but sarcastic Blood, fps-like nosferatu... 
 But this.
  
  When you hear the voices in the darkness... when you see bloody signs around. Well, you are right. 
 That's not even spooky.
  
  Listening to the tape I was waiting for somebody running in the room with a spooky face. When I 
 heard something attacked the man who was recording the tape I jumped on my chair. Damn. Penumbra 
 sound is very very good.
  
  But when the lights went off and I saw a flashlight coming from the corner, I was frightened much 
 more. When the light falls and you and something starts to run on you... A for the lights.
  
  So, turn of the lights, take on headphones and play. Play till the end. Anyway, will you run 
 scared after first 10 minutes or pass the whole game, you must play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VegasAceVII
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 19, 2008 12:05 am PT
Review:  Like the previous episode, Penumbra: Overture, Black Plague is an exploration-based adventure game 
 that takes place from a fully 3-dimensional, first-person perspective. Although the game is presented 
 as a first-person adventure game, it also contains elements of first-person shooter and survival 
 horror gameplay.
  
  Penumbra: Black Plague picks up where the first installment left people hanging. Philip awakens 
 in a room in which it appears he can't escape. This room works as a great tutorial for people who 
 did not have the pleasure of playing the first game. It's also in this room that returning players 
 will see the core gameplay has not changed at all. For good reason as well... nothing was really 
 wrong with it.
  
  Black Plague sets off to a great start and brings back all the creepy feelings you may have experienced 
 from it's predecessor. In fact, in my opinion this game was much scarier. One of the only changes 
 that was made for this installment was combat and the ability to wield a melee weapon are now gone. 
 This was something that was complained about in the original, so I was happy to see it was completely 
 removed and to be honest... this series does not need combat. The first game tried to encourage 
 using your surroundings as your weapon. Except they forgot or did not realize how easy it was to 
 kill your enemies. For the sequel, some people may or not be happy to hear that combat is not even 
 a part of Black Plague. No more pesky mutts or spiders to deal with. Thank heavens for that!
  
  Much like the first, Black Plague is all about story. Story comes first here and that is a 
 good thing because once you get passed the really innovative physics engine, people will see the 
 gameplay is a bit shallow. Like all the adventure-puzzle type games before it, Black Plague uses 
 randomly placed documents scattered about. I will admit I'm not a fan of having to stop and read 
 a huge document that you could easily get bored with and begin "skimming" them instead of reading 
 and understanding them fully. Sadly this is how most of the game progresses it's story... except 
 they added one interesting mix to it. Throughout the game you are haunted by this voice in your 
 head. His name is Clarence, he is probably one of the creepiest characters you will hear and towards 
 the end of the game, you will laugh at him while feeling even more uncomfortable. So as Philip 
 continues to search for not only his Father, but what exactly his father wanted him to do, Clarence 
 will continually make you see what he wants you to see. This builds a lot of tension since you 
 are never really sure what is real and what is far from reality.
  
  Just like the first game, Black Plague uses it's environment to scare you and I will have to say 
 this game does an even better job of it. There were many parts in the game that I had to stop and 
 realize I was not playing 'Silent Hill'. So be prepared to have that uneasy feeling while playing 
 this sequel.
  
  Graphically, Penumbra: Black Plague looks really nice, I was very shocked to see how realistic 
 everything looked. They did a very good job here and I have to say the lighting and the shadows 
 are the best part of it's appearance.
  
  Black Plague also succeeds in it's sound effects. You will really start to notice how they effect 
 the game when it's time to start "sneaking" around the "infected." Since you can no longer fight, 
 be prepared to begin distracting your enemies so you can move around them.
  
  Although Black Plague has a great appearance and storyline, it does not go without it's fair share 
 of problems. One of the first things you will notice is that... you don't really have to sneak around 
 any of the "infected" you can easily run around there stupid A. I.
  
  The story, although very good; is easy to miss and by the end of the game you'll be asking yourself, 
 "What in the hell is going on!?" You have to read all the documents very well or you might think 
 the ending is very poor. However; if you do manage to understand the depth of the story, you will 
 love the ending just as much as I did.
  
  Puzzles in the game can be pretty tough at times, and I have no problem admitting that I had to 
 look up an FAQ to help me through some of the tougher parts. There are some situations in the game 
 that don't really make much sense and sometimes you have to "trial and error" your way through 
 certain areas and rely on mechanics you never experienced up until that point.
  
  
  Final Notes:
  Penumbra: Black Plague, is a steal at it's bargain price. Even though it lasted 
 only four and a half hours for myself, I feel like it was worth every penny. It's easily one of 
 the scariest games I have played in a while and there are some really tense moments where you might 
 find your hands shaking and the story will keep your wanting more if you can grasp it all. Black 
 Plague is not for everyone and if you're the type of person looking for any type of combat, you 
 may want to pass this one up. Penumbra is all about suspense and tension and let me tell you... it 
 succeeds. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kidnapkid
Rating: 9
Date: May 27, 2008 1:38 pm PT
Review:  Penumbra: Black Plague is frightening, pretty, and challenging. The puzzles are complex and difficult, 
 which makes them all the more fulfilling to complete. Adding to the difficulty of the puzzles are 
 the monsters who inhabit the ruined research facility. If they're not chasing you, you're either 
 hiding from them or anticipating one to bust forth from any corner of a room. The developers did 
 a good thing when they decided not to over-saturate the player with monsters, but instead reserve 
 them, which prevents me, personally, from being desensitized to how terrifying they look. The story 
 is well written and the environments are realistic, which makes the world seem more alive than 
 typical horror or puzzle genre games. The physics engine and world interactivity adds to the realism 
 of the environments, as you are able to move objects in almost any way you could in real life. 
 The graphics are nice as well. Not quite as nice as a game like Crysis, of course, but definitely 
 nice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jlhagad
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 31, 2009 3:30 am PT
Review:  For those of you who've played Penumbra Overture, this game begins where the first left off. For 
 the others who haven't played Overture yet, I suggest you start with that one to avoid any possible 
 spoilers. So, without further adieu, here's my review.
  
  The Black Plague continues the story of Penumbra from when you were "killed" but apparently just 
 knocked out at the end of the first game. Dazed and confused, you find yourself trapped in a small 
 room, comfortably lying on a soft bed (not a bad start :3) . However, hopes of safety go completely 
 out the window once you start to hear some horrible screams coming from a nearby room. As you've 
 probably guessed, whoever (or whatever) "invited" you into the Shelter probably doesn't plan on 
 serving tea anytime soon. What you do know is that you have to get out of there fast! And from 
 then on, it's classic Penumbra rummaging through drawers, messing up electronics, and solving puzzles.
 
  
  Just as I've already said, gameplay in this one hasn't changed much from the original. You still 
 get to navigate FPS style with the keyboard, and pick up and whack things around with the mouse. 
 Some things can still be picked up and stored in your inventory, and others you'll just have to 
 find an immediate use for. The defining factor of the game, the hand interface, is better than 
 ever, now fitted with a visible crosshair marking the center of the screen. Frictional Games has 
 certainly done well for our convenience. You'll also be happy to know that puzzles still require 
 much hands-on interaction. There's much more crate pushing, lever pulling, object dragging, and 
 valve turning to be done in this sequel since it focuses primarily on the puzzles and the story 
 while trading away the combat factor. An important thing to note is that this time you won't find 
 any weapons lying around. ('omgwtf1!? so, how do I kill stuf! f?') You won't be killing things with 
 fervent whacking this time. For the most part, you'll be running for dear life while navigating 
 towards the closest door, since that's the only way to escape these predators. However, don't be 
 too disappointed that you're now reduced to being a running, screaming sissy-man. Surprisingly, 
 this makes the game even more challenging (and more thrilling) since you'll be observing enemy 
 movements more closely, and planning your moves well. This way, you're sucked even more into the 
 game. It's like playing 'Silent Assassin' -- minus the 'Assassin' part. If that kind of stuff bores 
 you, the option of running in and hoping for the best still stands most of the time. Plus, there's 
 still some action once you get to the 'bosses'. These are the enemies you'll be forced to face 
 off with. ('uhhh, no weapons?'') Since you're empty-handed, you'll have to use your surroundings 
 to your advantage. And this can actually get quite fun. And that's pretty much it for gameplay.
 
  
  Graphics-wise, Penumbra has gotten better with added blur effects, real-time shadows, some smoke 
 here and there and better textures and filters. But overall there's nothing too special about the 
 graphics considering the generation of games it came out with. But, thankfully the visuals don't 
 disappoint considering they still are quite nice and you'll be in the dark most of the time anyway.
 
  
  Sounds are as great as they've always been. And the ambient noises are still as hair raising (or 
 even more than) as with the Overture. Frictional does well with the voice actors in this one, too. 
 Though your character's voice may have changed and most will probably prefer the original voicing, 
 the voice-acting from the other characters are just splendid. As much as you'll miss Red's rambling 
 into insanity, you'll have a couple of friends to talk to this time. One is a girl (a survivor?) 
 who you'll be communicating with using web-cams of a sort. Sadly, her cam's busted so you'll be 
 talking to static as she tells you how much you look like sh*t. But who cares? Cause she's got 
 a really nice voice and a British accent to boot. Throughout your endeavor her voice and the promise 
 of finding answers will be your primary drive to finish the game. And the other character you'll 
 be hearing from? I'll save that for you to find out. Let me just say that you'll either love him 
 or you'll hate him. I just found him annoying, even if he does cracks a few good jokes once in 
 a while.
  
  That's been quite a long review, but I made that for both the first and the second Penumbra so 
 please bear with it. Overall, Penumbra's been a nice experience with it's well-conceptualized storyline, 
 well placed visuals and solid, and innovative gameplay. Compared to Overture, TBP is comparatively 
 shorter but makes up for this with answers and the completion of the story. It's a game best recommended 
 for those accustomed to dark/horror genres or those looking for a dose of fear in their gaming. 
 This game is not for the faint of heart... seriously. I'd like to comment however the series has 
 been shorter than I could have wished. Given the story and all the floating questions, this could 
 have easily made it to a 3rd installment. But, well, it's done and there's nothing left to be done 
 about it.
  
  Edit : So, Frictional Games went against their original decision (and better judgment) and made 
 a 3rd. Nevertheless, skip that one, please. It doesn't do justice to the series. Be content remembering 
 Penumbra as you see in The Black Plague. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _iMMuNiTy_
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 9, 2008 6:50 am PT
Review:  Black Plague's younger sibling didn't receive much attention, but it received a fair amount of 
 praise for introducing a gameplay mechanic that might have seemed commonplace for Wii gamers, but 
 was pretty novel for the PC mob. The ability to interact with objects by moving your mouse in a 
 specific direction mimicking real life movements gave developers an opportunity to put in a plethora 
 of unique puzzles.
  
  And here comes the second and final instalment that completes the story of Penumbra. The story 
 continues with Phillip writing the letter to you, speaking of his journey to the deep underground 
 in search of answers. Black Plague starts off right where Overture ends, so I won't spoil it, just 
 in case you haven't played or finished the first part.
  
  Penumbra: Black Plague doesn't radically change Overture's gameplay. Just like in the first game, 
 you have a spacious inventory, a journal, a flashlight, a glowstick and a myriad of items - vital 
 pieces of a relative puzzle - you get to pick up throughout the game. The stealth element from 
 Overture returns in Black Plague, as well, remaining largely unchanged. At its core, Black Plague 
 is nearly identical to Overture.
  
  There are a few changes, however. First of all, the flashlight now requires two batteries to function, 
 and it eats these energy resources up much faster than it did in Penumbra: Overture. The combat 
 system also faces a major change - it's been removed. That's right, the weapons are out, the enemies 
 aren't. As such, you may be annoyed that you can't get back at enemies that keep screwing you over, 
 like I was. On the other hand, you can just run past them and into the next area. The "alarm" is 
 reset after each loading. That, of course, breaks immersion.
  
  To be honest, I was willing to deal with the main character's inability to grab anything at least 
 moderately heavy and bash in his enemies' skulls. The game's execution has been drastically improved 
 - the game is much scarier than the first. It has it all - shock frights, creepy moments, eerie 
 atmosphere and disturbing sounds. To avoid spoilers as much as possible, I will only say I've never 
 seen insanity portrayed as brilliantly as in this game. 
  
  The story is much tighter and more prominent in Black Plague, as well. Whereas in the first part 
 of this duology the story was intriguing, but its presentation sub-par, the narrative in Black 
 Plague is something you'd expect from a well-developed adventure game. My only gripe is that the 
 ending does not live up to my expectations. As you progress, you discover that you're onto something 
 very big. But in the end, it turns out that big is in fact small. Don't worry, it offers a satisfying 
 enough closure, but it's simply deviates too much from what you'd expect (in a bad sense) .
  
  Humour deserves its own paragraph. It was nearly entirely absent in Overture, and now it's 
 here. It doesn't negate the horrific atmosphere - awkwardly enough, it reinforces the eeriness, 
 instead. Perhaps because the tasteful darkly humorous jokes are appropriately placed. It's not 
 the gag from Portal that make you giggle like a schoolgirl, but they work.
  
  It's also worth mentioning that Penumbra: Black Plague is short. It is said that it's even shorter 
 than Overture. But you should realise that this is an episode. Penumbra: Overture and Black Plague 
 are not stand-alone titles - they are episodes, which together form an entire game, with a fair 
 amount of hours you'll spend playing it.
  
  Time to come to a close. Penumbra: Black Plague is a definite improvement over the first game, 
 and it finishes this short-lived franchise with style. It still has problems - lack of combat that 
 is not remedied by any other gameplay element being the biggest one - but it's still a game that 
 should not be missed in the midst of all those heavyweight hits. If you don't like cheap thrills, 
 if you enjoy sophisticated storytelling and horror, then it would be a sin for you to miss out 
 on this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rizlaq
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 13, 2008 4:34 am PT
Review:  Yeah, simple and creepy.
  The physics engine is quite impressive at first and this feeling holds throughout the game as you're 
 being presented with ever more cunning uses of it. Opening drawers by really pulling them out, 
 spinning rusty wheels on pipes, manipulating items freely (picking up, rotating in any direction, 
 bringing them closer/further or simply throwing them away) or even smashing objects against each 
 other gives a naturally immersive feedback. You know, the type of feedback when you got a nasty 
 zombie on your heels, you rush the door in full speed, pushing desperately for it to open only 
 to find out that it is opened the other way, which effectively means you have to step back or aside 
 and actually pull in your (and your zombie friend's) direction.
  
  Speaking of zombies, the designers used one especially nasty concept: you, cannot, fight, them. 
 Splendid, isn't it? I mean, what can be worse for instilling and maintaining fear than the realisation, 
 that you can't directly confront your enemy? In other games, after you massacre the scum who'd 
 scared the hell out of you, you begin to feel somewhat confident. You just land a showy crowbar 
 crack on its drooling mouth and then you can leisurely glower at its corpse, even loot it too, 
 or piss on it for what it's worth - simply put, get to know and humiliate your enemy and shake 
 the fear off.
  In Penumbra, this is not the case though. You have to evade and dodge those buggers. Often just 
 seeing them rounding a corner of an opposite corridor brings a strong urge to put to your heels 
 as them bastards are fast and fairly sharp-sighted. And even though the stealth mode is done very 
 nicely here, the safety of hiding in the shadows is rather dubious. When you find a good hiding 
 place and watch the zombie for a while, the game switches in a panic sort of freak-out mode where 
 your view gets blurry and zooms madly while you hear your character breathing jerkily in a strange 
 psychic agony, which eventually leads to attracting the zombie's attention anyways.
  Don't get me wrong though, you will have your satisfaction, albeit not that Rambo-style way of 
 satisfaction. To be frank, later in the game, the dread factor kind of rubs off, you even discover 
 ways to totally piss about the zombies, depends how cynical a player you are.
  
  The story is fine, though most of its value comes from the fact, that you know nothing at the beginning 
 and get to know only very little later on. Even so, it's mostly pretty expectable and when all's 
 finally revealed with a great pomp, it shows several plot/design holes and brings a general feeling 
 of "oh, well, That Virus Thing"... However, all in all it serves well.
  
  Graphics and sounds are both excellent, considering the purpose of each - to make things generally... 
 well, scary. Visually it is a bit dull, conforming to the overall spookiness, there's blood and 
 rubble everywhere, which doesn't always make sense (especially in the toilet room areas, say what 
 prook? ;) , but there's a strange gritty quality to all of it so it simply works. Last time I remember 
 being goose-bumpy-scared like this was in Vampire: The Masquerade, in that haunted house where 
 the poltergeist kept on smashing pieces of furniture at you in the least expected moments.
  The "puzzles" are great, more like real world obstacles, no nonsense. Together with the great mechanics, 
 it makes the game for you. There's nothing in the world like rummaging around with a huge rotten 
 mattress, trying to squeeze it into a small ventilation shaft and then climbing up there right 
 behind it only to realize what an arse you were getting stuck in such a silly way. What with the 
 solution being much more straightforward (and not involving mattresses in any way) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Indecipherable
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 5, 2008 6:04 am PT
Review:  After the abrupt ending of Penumbra: Overture, you must have thought that there must be more to 
 it. And you were right! Penumbra: Black Plague starts when you regain your senses, after being knocked 
 out. You find yourself deep in a hidden base, where gruesome experiments were apparently being 
 carried out. As the game progresses, you uncover the truth behi nd the base's current state and 
 try desperately to escape.
  
  But to do this, you must open a multitude of doors and escape the wrath of man-eating worms and 
 infected zombies. As in the previous game, the physics engine allows you to freely manipulate your 
 environment to achieve you goals. Opening a door or a drawer requires to mimic the actual movement 
 used in real-life, making the game all the more immersive. Again, the puzzles are as logical as 
 they get, though not always obvious.
  
  Speaking of zombies, remember the difficult battles with the zombie dogs in Penumbra: Overture? 
 Well, in this game batlle is outright impossible, so don't get any crazy ideas of killing everything 
 that moves! The game doesn't provide you with any weapon whatsoever, so staying hidden is the best 
 and only option.
  
  The graphics are more or less at the same level, not extremely sharp and photorealistic, but still 
 they get the jod done. Once again, it is the sound that makes your skin crawl and your hands sweat, 
 as you make your way in the abandoned base, wondering what kind of weird thing will be waiting 
 for you round the next corner.
  
  All the above make Penumbra: Black Plague easily reccomendable for fans of the horror-survival genre. 
 But be warned: this is not a game for the faint of heart!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: with_teeth26
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 30, 2008 2:02 pm PT
Review:  This game is on a different level of terror than anything i have ever played before. other games 
 like doom 3 or fear rely on shock horror to scare you, while games like stalker rely on a slowly 
 building terror. this game is different. i found that at one point i was only able to play it for 
 5 or 10 minute periods before i would get to scared to play. the terror in this game builds and 
 builds and builds as you play, a sickening panick rising inside of you. i turned me, a hardened 
 horror veteral, into a gibbering wreck if i played it for to long. t
  
  The plot of this game is really neat, i didn't play the first one, but i managed to peice it together. 
 I won't tell you anything, you should play it for yourself. if your wondering, this game is a puzzle 
 game crossed with a horror game. you have no physical way of killing the enemy, and the puzzles 
 are based on real world logic. there are moments of complete confusion, and when you figure out 
 a puzzle without help, you really feel good. the ending of this game is, in my opinion brilliant. 
 made me feel great. 
  
  One of the best things about this game is the physical interaction system. to open a door, you 
 click on it, then use your mouse to pull it open, or push it shut. the same thing goes for any 
 other object in the game, and it really creates the illusion of being there. the graphics, while 
 dated, are decent for a budget game such as this. it took me about 5 hours to complete, but it's 
 only 20 dollars, so it's not a bad deal. the sound is fabolous, and the music really adds to the 
 terror. 
  
  I woudn't reccomend this game to anyone who gets scared easily, or can't handle continuous terror. 
 if you thought fear, stalker, or doom 3 was scary, don't get this. it cost me many nights of sleep, 
 and really made me think. overall, this is the best puzzle game i've ever played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AvatarBlue
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 28, 2008 10:35 am PT
Review:  OK this game is nothing special in the grand scheme of things. Yet, dont let that put you off. 
 Infact it should encourage you to give it a go. I spent a couple of hours every night for the last 
 two weeks enjoying this experience. It does everything it promises. Good strong story. Great atmospherics 
 w/ sound, music, shifting sight and cleve use of the game environment.
  
  The way that combat is taken away from the player is something I was dubious about. At times, I 
 wanted to get my hands on a large stick to beat the computer in frustration, but that was only 
 because I wanted to complete the game. Honestly, if you want violence and combat, go look elsewhere. 
 If you want a different experience then this is a game for you. Its intelligence use of engine 
 capabilities make this a game one of a kind. Nothing really compares in the horror adventure. You 
 have to actually perform the tasks instead of clicking at things. Thats the big plus, as is revealing 
 the story, whose elements do keep you wanting to move along and explore the game world.
  
  My only real complaint other than lack of combat (whichi isnt a big thing) , was the limitations 
 of the objects and puzzles. There are some large setpiece puzzles to get your teeth into. Some 
 had me stumped for a while, but nothing that cant be passed if you actually think about what is 
 going on. The majority of the puzzles though arent that simulating once you get the trick of operating 
 the game engine elements. 
  
  A very good 2nd tier game. Worth getting if for a quick blast over a few week nights. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -THA-hamst3r
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 23, 2008 12:01 am PT
Review:  To read this review in it's original formatting with images and video, go here:
  http://www. hamst3r. com/article/57/thoughts-on-the-penumbra-series
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Thoughts on Penumbra: Black Plague & Penumbra: Overture
  
  I just finished playing Penumbra: Black Plague, the final chapter in the Penumbra series made by 
 Frictional Games.
  
  One word summary: Awesome.
  
  At least90% awesome. There were a few sections in Black Plague that I could have done without, 
 but overall the game was fantastic. The game is short, but it's short like Portal, meaning that 
 the four hours one spends in the game are the best 4 hours ever. Sadly though this is the end of 
 the series. Black Plague is no longer part of a trilogy as originally planned
  
  Black Plague was going to be the middle chapter in a trilogy of horror games, but due to unstated 
 reasons Black Plague became the second and last game in the Penumbra series. I'm assuming the reasons 
 are financial due to the game being made by a small independent developer for the niche Survival 
 Horror market and as a PC exclusive release. I think it's pretty clear that the odds were not in 
 the developer's favor.
  
  But from this developer has come a truly magnificent entry in to the history books of Survival 
 Horror games.
  
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  The main innovation of the Penumbra series is the unique way that you manipulate objects in the 
 game. In most games, to open a door you simply press a key or click a button and the door opens. 
 When you open a door in Penumbra you have a lot more control over how you do it. Think of the mouse 
 cursor as your on-screen hand, which isn't difficult in the game as your cursor is actually shaped 
 like a hand. Using this hand you grab the door and then push or pull it in the direction you want 
 it to move. You can push doors open as fast or as slow as you want. If you right click while holding 
 the door you will throw the door open as fast as possible.
  
  You can use this same technique to open cabinets and drawers, pick up items, throw items, move 
 boxes and to use just about anything else in the game. Both Penumbra games are driven by this concept. 
 You'll use it to solve nearly every puzzle in the two games. The puzzles also have very logical 
 solutions. There are no complex, brain-melting riddles. There's no need to collect prosthetic skin 
 so you can stretch it over a manhole and use it as a trampoline. There are no puzzles that require 
 you to microwave a unicorn statue and then deliver it to a government agent on the moon. All of 
 the puzzles in Penumbra are solved with real-world logic.
  
  For instance one puzzle in Black Plague requires you to open a locked gate. You do this by first 
 locating a bent metal rod and bringing it over to the gate. You have free control over the rotation 
 of item you're carrying, so you need to rotate the metal rod and then wedge it between the gate 
 and the frame. Once the rod's in place you grab the edge of it and pull as hard as you can to snap 
 the lock on the gate. The puzzles do get more complex than this but nothing will have you pulling 
 or your hair trying to figure out what useless junk you need to combine next.
  
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  [VIDEO]
  
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  The amount of immersion gained from this kind of interactivity is astounding  it really helps 
 put you right there in the game and makes it feel even scarier. It would be nice if all games had 
 a play mechanic that felt so natural. No more, "press the use key" to pick an item up. If you want 
 to pick up the item you just click on it and you've picked it up! It's such a simple mechanism 
 but it works well and I can't think of any other games that have it.
  
  Both games have well written and at times very funny scripts. In both games after about an hour 
 of mucking around on your own you finally find some companionship in a disembodied voice. In Overture 
 a character starts talking to you over a radio that you find and in Black Plague a different individual 
 is apparently located inside of your head. Not to give too much away I'll stop there. This method 
 of delivery works very well in the game and does not feel like a cop-out as it does in some games.
 
  
  Another way that Black Plague differs from Overture is in the combat. Black Plague doesn't have 
 any. There are still enemies, but this time around it's best if you just run away from them and 
 find some other way to outwit them that doesn't require direct confrontation. Black Plague does 
 still have the occasional enemy encounter but they are resolved through the use of your environment 
 rather than trying to clumsily swing a pick axe at them as they tear you to bits.
  
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  The graphics in the Penumbra series can be best described as dated. The graphics aren't anywhere 
 near those in Crysis. What they are though is effective and that's good enough. The lighting and 
 atmosphere is what really saves the graphics. The lighting is great, at least what of it is there 
 to be great, as the game is also very dark. You do carry a Flashlight, a glow-stick and some road 
 flares, but when there are enemies lurking around the last thing you want to do is alert them to 
 where you are by shining a light in their direction.
  
  The music in both Penumbra games is very fitting and helps to create an atmosphere of tension and 
 constant danger. Every area seems to have it's own unique creepy music too, which is a nice touch. 
 In Black Plague as you enter the dog kennel area, a familiar cue from Overture fades in, getting 
 right under the skin of anyone who's played Penumbra: Overture. Another bonus is that the music 
 is easily accessible in the game directories as OGG files for those who want to listen to the quality 
 themes some more.
  
  Overall, Penumbra: Overture and Penumbra: Black Plague are very good games. Black Plague is a decidedly 
 better game with it's more puzzle oriented focus and more interesting environments, but I do feel 
 that Overture has the more interesting and amusing acquaintance named Red. Red is a good guy if 
 not a bit neurotic. He's a very lovable and helpful character, guiding you throughout the game. 
 Clarence on the other hand can be down right cruel and manipulative. Clarence also always refers 
 to you as, "Monkey". Both characters are interesting and add a lot of depth and emotion to the 
 Penumbra games.
  
  If you love scary games, Penumbra is an excellent choice. Penumbra will draw you in and toy with 
 you in ways other horror games simply can't.
  
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  [VIDEO]
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TugaSoldatTV
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 21, 2008 3:59 pm PT
Review:  Penumbra BP, is a really great game. Being a fan of the F. E. A. R. series, it was my duty to try 
 this one. If you like horror/scary games, them try Penumbra, you wont regret it. It may appear 
 strange at the start or even not very addictive, but once you advanced in the game, you will enjoy 
 every second of it. The puzzles are also great, they make you think, hard! And what will you do 
 when you are trying to guess what and where to go and a zombie pops out in your face?
  
  The only negative aspects points on this are:
  -the game is to short
  If you play Penumbra, 
 you wont feel to stop, so you will eventually finish the game in a few hours.
  
  
  -some puzzles are a bit hard to know what to do
  You must think, but it doesnt mean you have 
 to be Einstein. Theres a few (few) puzzles that you will stuck and you wont know what to do next, 
 or... not. That depends on you, but this is the opinion of more people out there.
  
  
  -theres some bugs to avoid on the game.
  Theres some bugs, related to things you can do, but 
 should do, or the game will crash. eg: entering a room thats "locked" but you manage to open the 
 door. Doing this may crash the game if you collect the "important tools" in the room and use them... when 
 you weren't supposed to use them! I had that problem.
  
  
  
  Despite the bugs, Penumbra is a great game, and in my opinion, it deserves a 9. So try it, and 
 enjoy it!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 55584623
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 20, 2008 8:17 am PT
Review:  penumbra it is for sure diferent than the usual FPS terror games.
  actually penumbra can't even be considered as a FPS, the game is focused in gaving challeging puzzles 
 and a lot of horror sequences.
  and there's no doubt that penumbra succeds in those objectives.
  as soon as you begin the game 
 and you go trough the first puzzles you can already fell how the game works, the greatest part 
 of it is the puzzles, that are directly related to the gameplay.
  the gameplay it is simples but in the same time give you a lot of interaction options.
  the souns 
 and the video collaborates a lot to great the horror atmosphere, and the allucinations helps making 
 the game be unpredictable.
  another great element is the story, it works just like other horror games, the story is full of 
 misteries and durying your journey troughout the game you keep discovering thinks about it.
  sounds pretty like an investigation.
  
  conclunding, if youre looking for some good puzzle 
 and a lot of tense moments, dont waste your time and go buy penumbra.
  but if youre looking for a simple game just to blow some monster heads, well penumbra is quite 
 not the right game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Paladin_basic
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 16, 2008 4:34 pm PT
Review:  Black Plague continues from where we left off, and does feel and play a little differently from 
 the last game. There is in general a lot more to the puzzle element this time around, and the combat 
 has been removed, which I approve of. Having to run from monsters is a lot more scary than knowing 
 you can whack them
  
  The physics are one of the main selling points of the game, and are indeed very good. More is put 
 into it this time round, where as in the first game it was almost restricted to moving boards around 
 to walk on etc, where as now items are used in more interesting ways, which is great to see
  
  Graphically, the game is very nice to look at. Some may say it's not the best but they're being 
 picky, super realistic graphics don't count for that much, and it limits the PC systems that can 
 run the game. The game looks great even on my system, a P4 3400 single core, 2GB of old DDR RAM 
 and a 7800 GS 512MB graphics card (AGP at that!)
  
  Both the sound effects and the musical scores are great and help put you right in there as the 
 character
  
  Difficulty is just about right... I only got really stuck once, but a few times I had to fit down 
 with pen and paper... nothing hard, just challenging
  
  I completed the game in about 6 hours 30 minutes, which admittedly is a little short, but the gameplay, 
 atmosphere and enjoyment was worth it, and I do heartily recommend the game
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: HenriH-42
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 15, 2008 2:44 pm PT
Review:  First I must say that I have been really bored with games in the last few years... It's just FPS, 
 FPS, FPS, FPS, FPS... Last year's Penumbra: Overture was a really refreshing change from that. 
 But it had it's flaws too, see my review of it for details. The second, and unfortunately the last 
 part of the Penumbra series has fixed all those minor annoyances, and made a great game into a 
 perfect game! Penumbra: Black Plague is really one of the best and original games I have played 
 in years, and that is saying much since I tend to have really high standards.
  
  Gameplay: 10/10
  - Seriously. There is absolutely nothing wrong with the game here. I love how 
 they decided to remove the HUD completely, it adds immersion. And it's a damn good thing that they 
 removed the weapons too, since being helpless makes the game much more scary, which makes it much 
 more atmospheric and more enjoyable experience. The gameplay consists mainly of three different 
 types of things; Puzzle solving (including inventory and physics based puzzles) , sneaking past 
 enemies & hiding, and running away from enemies/other hazards. That's right, you don't get to kick 
 every enemy's ass in this game. And that's a REALLY good thing, since I am tired of the mindless 
 violence in games. There are a couple of boss fights in the game though, but they are not like 
 "so there's this huge robot who has twelve rocket launchers" and even though I am generally against 
 'boss battles' in games since it usually just breaks immersion, Penumbra's boss fights are nothing 
 like that. They are quite good actually.
  
  Atmosphere & Immersion: 10/10
  - Let's just say that Penumbra: Black Plague is the most atmospheric and immersive game I have 
 played since the original Thief. The game has a very scary mood all the time, so I wouldn't recommend 
 this to you if you are too afraid of horror movies, since Penumbra is MUCH more scary than any 
 horror movie I have ever seen. The only correct time to play this is at night. Alone. With lights 
 off. Preferably with a 19"+ CRT monitor. You WILL be scared. REALLY SCARED. If you thought that 
 F. E. A. R. was scary, well, you haven't seen anything yet.
  
  Graphics: 9/10
  - It's no Crysis, but what do you expect? This game has been made by a small team that obviously 
 wanted to make a great game, not a graphics tech demo. That said, there is nothing wrong with the 
 graphics, they do their job really well. I particularly like the shadows & lighting, it adds to 
 the atmosphere.
  
  Sound: 9.5/10
  - Instant win. Whoever has done the sound effects has done a wonderful job! And the ambient sounds 
 are just amazing. You have to have a good pair of headphones and a Creative sound card with EAX-support 
 to fully enjoy this game. Please, do yourself a favor and don't play this game with 10 earbuds. 
 The only part which makes me give the sound 9.5 instead of 10 is that I think that the 'infected' 
 voice acting is in some places pretty awkward. "Is someone there?", "What was that?", eg. I think 
 that they should have not included speech for those... things. It would have been better that way.
 
  
  Physics: 9/10
  - Oh yeah! The physics in this game are really awesome, especially since there are a lot of physics 
 based puzzles. They are just great. But the reason that it's only 9, not 10 is because stuff like 
 Digital Molecular Matter will be used in some 2008 games, and that is far more realistic than the 
 current "Havok" -type physics.
  
  Replay value: 2/10
  - This is probably the only bad thing about Penumbra. The game is kinda short, I finished it in 
 about 7 hours (not counting reloading etc.) and there is not so much replay value since you already 
 know all the stuff that'll happen so it will not be as scary the second time. But there are some 
 items that you can collect along the game, and if you do get them all you'll unlock some extra 
 stuff like concept art.
  
  Value for money: 10/10
  - Even though the game is short, the experience is one that you won't forget in a while, especially 
 the ending is quite epic and makes you think (at least it made me think.) And the game is priced 
 about 20-30 in most stores. I think it's without a doubt worth the purchase.
  
  Bugs, Stability & Performance: 10/10
  - Never had any bugs, crashes or anything. I wish that 
 all game developers would take an example of Frictional Games, and not release the game half-done.
 
  
  Will this game be remembered by old school gamers as a classic after 10 years?:
  - Unfortunately, it's not that known. But I know that I will remember this game as a classic right 
 alongside Thief and Deus Ex.
  
  Who would I recommend to buy the game?:
  - Just about anyone who has enough patience and can actually think about logical solutions to puzzles, 
 anyone who is looking for an immersive and atmospheric gaming experience. If you are looking for 
 another lame mindless console-fps, go away, now. Also, if you are easily scared, you may not dare 
 to play this game for very long.
  
  Final score (not necessarily an average) : 10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dark_being
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 14, 2008 2:53 am PT
Review:  In mid 2007, a game by the name "Penumbra: Overture" came along. And it was good. With its unique 
 gameplay and Lovecraftian story, this small, unfamiliar game managed to rise above mediocrity, 
 and truly shine in the dark sea of survival horror.
  One year later, its sequel "Penumbra: Black plague" was released. And it was better.
  
  "Black 
 plague" takes everything that made the first game good, and drops everything that made it annoying 
 and repetitive. Anyone who played the first game remembers the frustrating stealth sequences, where 
 Philip was forced to sneak around zombie dogs through entire levels, defending his life with wild 
 swings of a hammer or a pick-axe. These same people will be thrilled to learn that "Black plague" 
 got rid of all the zombie dogs and the awkward combat, and now focuses almost entirely on problem-solving 
 and cunning trickery.
  
  The unique gameplay mechanics from the first game made their way into "Black plague" as well. Every 
 action Philip performs is directly controlled by the mouse. A door is blocking your way? No problem, 
 just grab the handle with the mouse crosser (conveniently shaped as a hand) and pull the mouse 
 back, as if opening a real door. Found a locked glass case? Just pick up a cinder block and break 
 the glass to little pieces.
  The mouse-dominated gameplay is intuitive, and easy to master. No more crazy, wild flailing of 
 makeshift weapons, since Philip can outsmart most of the enemies in the game, locking them in a 
 closet or killing them, using objects from his environment. Even stealth is taken out of the game 
 almost completely, now that the enemies carry around flashlights.
  
  The story starts off at the exact moment the previous game ended. After a nasty blow to the head, 
 Philip wakes up to find that he is locked in a room. How he got there is a mystery, and pretty 
 soon, after exploring a bit, the game's objective becomes clear- find Howard, Philip's father, 
 and figure out what happened to the personnel manning the underground research center known as 
 "The Shelter".
  
  Not giving too much away, let's just say that "The Shelter" isn't as abandoned as it looks, and 
 Philip is once again forced to save himself from deadly enemies controlled by an even deadlier 
 entity, corresponding with the Lovecraftian theme.
  
  The plot is still told by various notes and books scattered across the levels, but now Philip is 
 able to use some of the staff's computers, reading research logs and reports about the findings. 
 The computers also offer some minor puzzles, such as uncovering passwords and unlocking doors. 
 There's even a short reprogramming section in one of the levels, which can easily be solved using 
 an instruction book found nearby. Although not troublesome most of the time, the hunt for passwords 
 can be tiring and even downright annoying.
  
  Around the end, "Black plague" becomes too bizarre, and tries to cram in too much information in 
 too little time. The last 30 minutes of the game can be a bit much for some players, and require 
 a great deal of patience.
  
  The sound in this game is a well executed scare machine. Whispers and distant yells chill the blood, 
 while the sound of an enemy's dragging feet is enough to make the heart skip a beat. There's hardly 
 any noticeable background music, but the little there is, is some well conceived, atmosphere creating 
 melodies. The light piano music, with a touch of strings, is really appropriate for the minimalist 
 feel the game is build upon.
  All human interaction is done using voice acting exclusively, including a young woman, who takes 
 the place of Red from the previous game, and Clarence, a malevolent and sarcastic voice in Philip's 
 head.
  
  The present of Clarence introduces a new plot twist, since he can control parts of Philip's brain, 
 making him see and hear things that are not really there. This affects the gameplay somewhat, as 
 doors will disappear and enemies will rush towards you only to vanish a split second before reaching 
 you. Clarence seems to take real joy causing Philip troubles and minor heart-attacks, but at the 
 same time is concerned with Philip's (and probably his, since they share the same mind) well being.
 
  
  Since I haven't really complained about anything so far, I reckon it's a good time to start. First 
 of all, the graphics are still dated and even pixilated at times, especially during transitions 
 and fadeouts. Moreover, the enemies all look the same, and considering their limited numbers, there's 
 no excuse for such laziness.
  Another flaw (and probably the bigger of the two) is that the game takes about 4 to 5 hours from 
 start to finish, which is a little disappointing, since the first game was longer. But I guess 
 it's better getting something good for a short time, then something mediocre for a longer period.
 
  
  Bottom-line, "Penumbra: Black plague" is better than its predecessor, so anyone who liked "Penumbra: 
 Overture" will be pleased. Fans of horror games, especially adventure horror games, owe it to themselves 
 to give "Black plague" a try. The gameplay and story alone are enough to justify a purchase, even 
 if the experience doesn't last more then a day. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamingprincess
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 7, 2008 5:41 pm PT
Review:  this is a mixed review. i played the first one and was not to impressed but deceided to give number 
 two a shot. I will give this game high marks for puzzles and traps, i was scared twice and only 
 twice. Things pop out at you in the dark but mostly its puzzle solving. You have no weapons just 
 your swift feet and mind. You interact with all sorts of objects from opening doors to find things 
 behind books pictures ect. Mostly you run around halls looking for objects with a tiny voice in 
 your head giving you instructions or grief. hes neat to listen to. I had a problem looking at our 
 creatures as they never stayed clear for long. when i did get a glimse they were naked beings with 
 strange embilcal cords. Wow scary. There is a lot to do and most of the puzzles are rather hard 
 to figure out. Rush to leave rooms as you know things are coming. I enjoyed half of it and the 
 other half i was not impressed. The ending left me totally upset. I know from it a three is coming. 
 Some people will rave at this being a fantastic game. Scary not really Fustration in getting things 
 to work Great. Spooky settings dusty dark needed more jumping out at you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nutcrackr
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 6, 2008 4:36 am PT
Review:  Black Plague is a short game, but it's a good game. The basic premise involves you in search for 
 your father in an underground facility, located in Greenland, known as The Shelter. However things 
 have gone bad, an infection has broken out and people are not what they once were. The game does 
 a good job and creating perceived action and tension without actually showing it directly and the 
 same is true for the character you find alive, asking you to rescue her via voice communication. 
 
  
  The game is mostly a series of puzzles, using a combination of items you find together along with 
 a series of physics orientated tricks to get you out of rooms or into secure areas. The puzzles 
 are extremely logical, the hardest parts usually involve finding the various pieces, and often 
 you'll know exactly what you need. The game breaks up some of this puzzle solving with horror sections 
 and usually these involve you being defenceless running away from something horrible. They don't 
 last too long, and aren't as much of a threat as first thought, as you can outrun most of them 
 but they create some creepy moments. The game also introduces some confusing visual elements during 
 the later part of the game, most are very well done and can be quite shocking to the system. The 
 game does feature some decent voice work from certain characters, especially the character that 
 is closest to you. The text is good enough to convey the story and help you solve puzzles easily 
 enough.
  
  The game features a full dynamic lighting system similar to Doom 3, graphically it's a bit dated 
 and rooms can be a bit bland. The game's main feature is how you interact with the world, your 
 mouse cursor acts like a hand you can reach out to pick up objects, drag objects, turn on objects, 
 and swing doors and levers, quite a good system overall but under utilized. The majority of puzzles 
 are probably too easy and aside from the end puzzles there aren't many that make you think a bit 
 more outside the box or use the combined physics system well enough. The game can be completed 
 in about 4 hours making it a little short, but it retails for only $20. It's a testament that this 
 game was created with just a handful of developers when mega corporations create abominations of 
 generic trash with teams of hundreds or more, do yourself a favour and step back in time to see 
 where cool ideas came from.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: saysmark
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 6, 2008 2:05 am PT
Review:  First of all, playing Penumbra: Overture first is a MUST! There's just too much of the whole experience 
 that relates back to it that it doesn't work as well alone.
  
  Unlike some less impressive horror games, this one doesn't make the mistake of trying to scare 
 so often that it becomes cliche. It builds up masterfully to the most horrifying moments. Don't 
 expect much action in this game, but since it's really more of a puzzle game at the core, there's 
 not really much call for action anyway. The AI of the bad guys could be better, but the way I see 
 it, no matter how good it was it still wouldn't be perfect because, like I said, this game isn't 
 about action. I suppose they could have made it so that being spotted means instant death, but 
 this way it gives you some flexibility if you make a couple mistakes. Also, it incorporates the 
 need to run from people into several parts of the story which wouldn't work right if you just weren't 
 allowed to be seen at all. In Overture, being seen pretty much meant dying unless you were quick 
 with a pickaxe but since you don't have any weapons in this game other than your brain, you have 
 to rely on your surroundings to protect yourself from the enemy.
  
  The game doesn't take long to finish as long as you have some decent problem-solving skills and 
 you're used to this sort of gaming. There's probably only around 5 hours of solid gameplay here, 
 but rest-assured that none of it is wasted time. There's also not going to be much of a replay 
 value to this game so I'd actually say it's not worth buying until you can get it for under $10, 
 or $20 for both Black Plague and Overture.
  
  In conclusion, I'd call this a game for fans of creative and enthralling storytelling. The graphics 
 are behind the times, but I'll take a quality story over next-gen graphics anyday. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctor_kaz
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 5, 2008 12:33 pm PT
Review:  The Penumbra series is one of the most pleasant surprises in the recent months of PC gaming. This 
 pair of games is a cross between a traditional adventure and 1st person survival horror. The combination 
 of gameplay styles feels very refreshing and new, and just as important, the story is captivating 
 too. The second installment, "Black Plague", brings the series to a close with improved gameplay 
 and a satisfying end to the story. Like Overture, Black Plague is creepy and scary, and it is filled 
 with moderately challenging but intuitive puzzles. If you played Overture and enjoyed it, then 
 Black Plague is easy to recommend.
  
  Penumbra: Black Plague continues the story with you playing as Phillip, investigating the abandoned 
 mine in Greenland. You begin captured in a secret underground installation, with no idea how to 
 get out. Similar to Overture, you will encounter a few other characters, which will either help 
 you or make your life difficult. Just like the last chapter, you will be very interested in the 
 fates of these characters, and they are critical to Penumbra's story. Penumbra's plot isn't revolutionary, 
 but the storytelling style is where it excels. The game conveys the history of the installation 
 through short notes, sound bites from your "friends" in the game, and clues in the environment. 
 It also ends very satisfyingly, leaving you feeling that you have gotten your money's worth. The 
 5-6 hour game length is OK for the price. Especially when you compare it to other $20 games *cough* 
 Portal *cough* that last only two hours but, for some reason, never get criticized for it.
  
  Like its predecessor, Black Plague also constantly pounds reminders into your head about the 
 danger you are in, the desperation that you face, and your sense of isolation. By the middle of 
 this chapter, you will be desperate just to see another live human being. The game maintains the 
 same creepy atmosphere as Overture with great sound design, and the gradually increasing feel that 
 you are losing your sanity. A short while into the game, you start to see and hear things. There 
 are a few times where you have major hallucinations, with some very interesting results. These 
 moments are totally unpredictable, and very memorable. In Penumbra, you never know what is around 
 the next corner.
  
  One of the best parts about Overture was its new approach to adventure gaming mechanics. Black 
 Plague keeps the same basics: 1st person view, WASD controls, and the ability to manipulate just 
 about everything in the environment by clicking on it with the mouse and dragging it in some direction. 
 At the same time, it completely does away with the terrible combat, and it greatly reduces the 
 number of enemies that you have to sneak past. There are still a few, and stealth still isn't great, 
 but they aren't much of a nuisance. Difficulty-wise, this chapter is just right. There are just 
 enough enemies to keep you on your toes and maintain the tension throughout the game, but enough 
 to frustrate you. This is the primary reason why Black Plague is the better chapter.
  
  You progress through the game, once again, by searching and exploring, collecting items, entering 
 codes, and using what you have picked up in your inventory. The puzzles are almost always intuitive, 
 but still challenging enough. Too many adventure games require random item usage or metagame thinking, 
 and that is what makes an underappreciated game like Penumbra better. If there is a shortcoming 
 to the game, it might be that many of the puzzles are ripped directly from famous games like Half-Life 
 or Half-Life 2 (such as a challenge that forces you to stack boxes so that you can jump over some 
 lasers that are rigged to explosives) . Still, the new setting gives them new life.
  
  Graphically, Black Plague is unchanged from Overture. The graphics do a good job of portraying 
 a bloody, dark, dirty, and unsanitary installation where some kind of infection has broken out 
 and the supernatural might be involved. The texture work and lighting are okay, although with games 
 like Crysis on the market, the look of the game is below par for 2008. It shouldn't ruin your enjoyment 
 of the game, however.
  
  Penumbra: Black Plague is a great example of how to make a second episode greater than the first. 
 Everything that worked in Episode 1 returns for this chapter, and the most annoying parts, namely 
 the broken combat, are gone. With this installment, the series comes to a close. It is a successful 
 debut for Frictional Games, and one of the better discoveries of recent years. If you are in the 
 mood for a scary adventure and a somewhat unconventional experience, then you owe it to yourself 
 to check out the Penumbra series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cowboybebop990
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 1, 2008 11:03 pm PT
Review:  Pro: REALLY REALLY scary, Very simplistic fun, Sounds are fantastic
  
  Con: Corpses are way to scripted and lunky looking
  
  This game is fantastic I loved it. Its 
 hard to do this game justice in words it is deffinatly something truly worth every penny even if 
 it is short. You start out in a locked room trying to find a way to open a grate. This immediatly 
 introduces you to the ingenuity you will need to survive throughout the game. 
  
  As the review said everything you need is pretty much right infront of you. The game has a good 
 way of hinting at things without giving it away. Once you figure the puzzle out it is easy to see 
 where the game was leading you and the story is fantastic. It delves into insanity and tries and 
 succedes at making you the player confused and disoriented and at the same time giving you an ambient 
 sound that makes you terrified and having an ever growing feeling of desperation.
  
  The puzzles are a bit of a funny thing in itself. Their very simple and complex at the same time. 
 It starts out primarily as item collecting (no its not a simple little run around and find things) 
 but there are rooms in each area and you need to figure out how to get into each room because an 
 item you need is in each. To one of the problems I myself just simply got frusterated and beat 
 the thing with a rock and that wielded the answer for me. Thats the pure simplistic fun of this 
 game. You dont need to figure out some preposterous puzzle like finding the dats of 20 different 
 historical situations adding them together dividing by eight and then adding 2 to find out a code 
 it is right infront of you, you just gotta figure out how to get it.
  
  To continue on the sound it is what makes the game. You can hear something like the whispers of 
 voices or the moans of the damned. The walls almost sound like their trying to kill you as sometimes 
 you can hear the little patter of small spider feet (I hated those bloody things from overture 
 having a very strong arachnophobia) The other aspect that makes the game truly, truly spectacular 
 is the feeling of insanity. To not give the entire story away it is very hard to go into this. 
 But if you played the first one you will probably start sounding like Red if you dont make it out 
 of the hell hole soon.
  
  The graphics are great. I never had much of a qualm with graphics with any game. The graphics here 
 do a great job of lighting and whatnot a must for the type of game it is. The biggest problem I 
 have with this game is the corpses look so lunky and predetermined. Dont get me wrong the graphics 
 are great and bound to work on just about any machine. The models for the enemies are fantastic 
 and look so strange and alien.
  
  Overall this game is fantastic and something completely different. From the physics engine and 
 needing to open everything like you would in real life to the scary things that come out of nowhere 
 when you think something is finally going to work in your direction. It is fantastic and truly 
 worth a going through and the overture just to know the story.
  
  P. S. Remember Clarence is always watching you : ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DIABETUS
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 26, 2008 9:33 pm PT
Review:  This game is basically a hybrid Silent Hill, but it still delivers first-person horror experience. 
 Imagine being trapped in an underground facility with no idea where you are, how to get out, and 
 are accompanied by gruesome creatures that litter the corridors you walk.
  
  A very good puzzle game and action all together. Having to use anything in the environment to escape 
 and survive makes it feel as if you are the character himself.
  
  The enemies in the game constantly search for you and darkness is your only salvation from them. 
 Having only a small portion of weapons, you need to stay calm, and usually wait for an enemy to 
 pass by you without being caught.
  
  And its not just the enemies that screw with your mind. The enviroment itself is quite unnerving, 
 and sometimes, you might want to wish that you never want to solve to go on to the next horror 
 that awaits you.
  
  All in all, this game is truly wonderful! A 10/10 indeed! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Force_field
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 26, 2008 12:08 pm PT
Review:  I really don't want to be a partybreaker, but this game isn't really as good as many people would 
 like i t to be (my opinion, of course) .
  Why this game IS something exists in it's slight difference if you look at classic adventures, 
 and somehow cleaner and better experience if you look at the Overture part of "story".
  On the other hand, it really ISN'T so good because of maaaaany things... story is empty and hollow, 
 gameplay is too straightforward and linear for my taste, "creepy feeling" isn't really so creepy 
 because of very bad and cheap graphics, x-year old engine spoils any sense of reality mostly because 
 of abysmal light calculations that are causing confusion every few seconds when you look around. 
 Physics are implemented in an interesting and "almost-natural" way but still... can you maneuver 
 12ft long "piece" of steel in real life, just by holding its shortest edge with one hand... Nice 
 try, but not even close to real life... OK, you can't move things when you are standing on top 
 of them, but that's really all about reality in here.
  Let's be honest: this game is one more nice release with decent playability and "something" different, 
 but hey... I see here so much nines and tens... do you REALLY think THIS game is good enough for 
 anything above seven??? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: funkinalive
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 25, 2008 3:48 pm PT
Review:  Games for me have always meant entertainment. But for a game to make such an impression on me to 
 write a review about it...? THATS SOMETHING!
  
  I don't play games much anymore but, after finding an interest in Penumbra I have never felt so 
 refreshed and genuinely entertained by a video game. Everything these days are so mainstream and 
 mindless that it is really difficult for, mature gamers to find anything that truly speaks to them. 
 WOW I just cannot get by the fact that a game like this hasn't received the "much deserved" attention 
 that other "richer" games seem to buy these days.
  
  Penumbra is not for the weak minded, the average gamer will disregard it, and take it for a boring 
 adventure game, and most likely will get stuck on even the first of the puzzles it throws at you. 
 But a sophisticated gamer will be intrigued by its real world puzzles. Ahhhh what a relief it is 
 to actually be able to THINK while gaming. Some of the puzzles are so fantastically common sensed 
 that you will beat your forehead with an "of-course!!!". Others require you to jot down and truly 
 study the material provided to you and "THINK" in order to be successful. I have NEVER been so 
 frightened by a game such as Penumbra. Its use of psychological fear on the basis of "that which 
 you don't see can kill you!" works in massive effect both in part of the way the gameplay is layed-out, 
 the graphics/physics and the fantastic use of sound effects and music. To top it all off, the game 
 ends with an excellent "and true" message about the nature of human beings. To call it a poor ending, 
 in my books is submitting to the Hollywood expectations we want in an ending. I mean its not everyday 
 a game has a meaningful message for its player.
  
  In terms of graphics, think of it this way: would you rather have a game that looks good? Or a 
 game that acts good?. The later is what penumbra is. Its lack in some texture details and modern 
 finishing effects, is more than made up for in terms of how the physics make the graphics REAL! 
 The way you interact with objects has never been so true to life and well... creepy. There is nothing 
 like slowly opening a creaky door with the mouse to see what leis behind, you really have to play 
 it to see what I mean. Its used in great effect and is an innovation well mastered by frictional 
 games to immerse the player into the tortured world of penumbra. The way the graphics or "physics" 
 rather are able to immerse the player greatly improve the way I "look" at the game and because 
 of that I think the graphics are actually quite impressive and successful.
  
  The sound effects and musical score are spot on, in itself they make the game. The way your footsteps 
 while running are PAINFULLY load, the way the monsters shout at you and rant as they pass by, or 
 the lamenting shouts of a fellow human in another place you cant quite get too are truly blood 
 curling. But over this it's the atmospheric sound effects that really give Penumbra a high "creepiness" 
 factor. The sudden and load scream or tap of a creature unseen behind a wall, in a wall, or in 
 the shadows. And the musical score, depressing, yet beautiful is well done. Really creepy stuff!
 
  
  In the end it is only my opinion, but one that I feel many other mature gamers will sympathies 
 with. Penumbra is a masterpiece, a game that I thought Bioshock was going to deliver. No, Penumbra 
 is everything I wanted. Ive shot through war torn Europe in Medal of Honor and Call of Duty. I 
 did the same thing in Crysis, just on an Island. Fear and Bioshock gave me too powerful weapons 
 and abilities to even be afraid of anything coming my way. And blood and guts don't scare me that 
 much. No, Penumbra doesn't give me a weapon because there ARE no weapons in the situation your 
 in, special abilities are for fantasies. In reality a persons psyche does not tolerate or accept 
 things that are unnatural to them leaving them to fear hallucinate or panic easily and render them 
 too scared, or inefficient to fight effectively. That's what Penumbra gives you. A hardcore horror 
 game that is best played in the dark with the volume turned up. And to finish it all off, the game 
 ends beautifully by portraying the conundrum that is man.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ping5000
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 18, 2008 12:12 pm PT
Review:  Episodic games have a couple benefits. One of the best advantages being developers can address 
 criticisms quickly in-between each new episode. Penumbra: Black Plague is a prime example of this. 
 The second and final game in the Penumbra series makes key improvements over its predecessor, which 
 makes Black Plague a decidedly better game.
  
  Black Plague takes place immediately after the events of the first game, Overture. You once again 
 take control of Phillip, and while your primary goal was to escape to the surface, there's just 
 one problem  you've been hit with an infection (hence the subtitle) . The symptoms you'll face 
 from the infection are psychological in nature and the game takes advantage of this. Without spoiling 
 too much, your perception of what is reality and what isn't is something that's played around with 
 throughout the game. It works extremely well; moments of perception-bending don't happen often, 
 so they occur when you don't expect it, which in turn makes you question if everything around you 
 is real.
  
  Fortunately, there's hope for a cure. Black Plague largely revolves around you trying to rescue 
 someone who claims to have a cure for your ailment. It helps that the gal you're trying to rescue 
 is tremendously charming and endearing, because you're going to need all the motivation in the 
 world to face Black Plague's genuinely scary atmosphere. Unlike Overture, Black Plague is consistently 
 creepy and a few but key changes make that so. This time your main adversaries are tuurngaits  
 creepy humanoid beings that have a taste for your flesh. They're much more threatening than the 
 dogs you had to face in Overture, mostly because they carry distinct human-like qualities, except 
 they're disfigured to an unsettling degree. Another reason is how you can't kill them. If you happen 
 to be thrown into a situation where you're cornered, the only real combat option that's given to 
 you is to throw random objects at the tuurngait, stunning it for short period so you can make your 
 getaway. Your best bet is to sneak past their patrols. You won't run into their patrols often enough 
 that they become irritating and encounters with them won't be so rare that you forget about them. 
 There's a perfect balance, which makes you rarely feel safe anywhere.
  
  It doesn't help that the ambient sounds and scary scripted events that were heart-stopping in Overture 
 are back in full force in Black Plague. Noises off in the bleak distance can cause moments of trepidation, 
 and hiding in a corner and crying starts to make a lot of sense. When you do get the will to move 
 forward, high-pressure scripted events will take a toll on your sanity in a good way. Black Plague 
 also has a wry sense of humor compared to Overture, which had none. Most of the humor comes from 
 the text that you read, and the game will make you chuckle at the most inappropriate times and 
 it can make Black Plague a surreal experience at times. It only makes the game scarier oddly enough, 
 because the odd bouts of humor make Black Plague's various complexes stranger and in this case, 
 creepier.
  
  Other than that, Black Plague feels a lot like Overture. You'll hesitantly open doors, pull and 
 twist levers and solve logical puzzles that will constantly humble you with their solutions. The 
 level of interactivity with the world still manages to be novel. Pulling, pushing and twisting 
 to the mouse to act out movements still easily draws you into the game, making Black Plague all 
 the more immersive. So, it's largely the same game, but the key improvements mentioned above makes 
 Black Plague a better game than its predecessor.
  
  The same can't be said for the graphics. Black Plague looks a lot like Overture, which means the 
 environments are drab and uninspired. The texture work is still shoddy, and while the lighting 
 and shadows are fairly impressive, Black Plague is a bit behind the curve by today's standards. 
 The sound still remains to be one of its strongest components, however. The sound effects are great 
 once again and the ambient noises and atmospheric music really add to the dreadfully good atmosphere. 
 The biggest improvement sound-wise comes from the improved voice acting. The characters you'll 
 encounter hand out fantastic performances, and it greatly adds to their, well, character.
  
  The game won't take long to beat, 5-6 hours is once again the general length. There are a couple 
 extras you can unlock, but they don't add too much to the overall value. When it comes down to 
 it, though, Penumbra: Black Plague is easily the better game in the episodic series. It properly 
 addresses criticisms from Overture and ties up the story arc rather well. In many ways, the Penumbra 
 series represents innovation in the adventure genre. The physics add a nice to the twist to the 
 puzzles and your interactivity with the world is much more involving than pixel-hunting. And it 
 doesn't have to forgo the puzzle-solving elements that recent adventures games like Dreamfall and 
 Indigo Prophecy have largely abandoned. Here's hoping Penumbra has shown that the adventure genre 
 can evolve, so that we can see more innovative adventure games like Penumbra. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andruxandd
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 18, 2008 8:04 am PT
Review:  A game astounding, breath-taking with intriguing and mind-boggling... a game staggering and amazing! 
 No, it's not about Crisys or Bioshock, no way! Not even Resident Evil or Silent Hill... it's not 
 a "walk in the park" with little zombie around... it's a great adventure, it's a earnest game and 
 i think it's only ONE: Penumbra: Overture and Black Plague.
  
  First episode was a revealing about what it's mean a horror game... about a thriller-game with great 
 story and incredible atmosphere, something "chill" like never before... and after i play this game 
 i feel so strange... no other game make me write something like that because doesn't exist another 
 game like Penumbra! I don't know if to beginning this game was only a project... but i am so glad 
 because i play this game and maybe no other horror-adventure-game impress me like this...
  Yes, human race must change and maybe in the future we learn something from this... maybe we say 
 what good thing can learn from a game?... I don't say it... everyone will know at the end of this 
 game and maybe will follow our heart from immutably our life....
  
  Story: 10
  Graphics: 10
  Gameplay:10
  Sound: 10
  END: 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lightningline
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 17, 2008 11:02 am PT
Review:  Frictional games has definately raised the bar ! While the graphics arn't quite as good as Crysis 
 and other modern games the game play is top notch. Don't get me wrong, they are pretty good. Insted 
 of mindlessly shooting your way throughout the Penumbra Black Plauge world the player is forced 
 to think in order to accomplish each and every goal. The game is very interactive and physics are 
 very good too. I think it is scarier than Doom 3. I truely hope to see more games like this. I 
 am rnjoying it very much. I hope the reviewers at Gamespot do it the justice it desearves. At least 
 an 8.5 but I gave it a 9.0. I am not quite done but am about 90% through and it just keeps getting 
 better. I haven't enjoyed a game this much in a long time. I will bum out when it's done. Oh well, 
 back to shooting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: moodflow
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 24, 2008 3:13 pm PT
Review:  First of all, I haven't completed the game yet. I assume the ending is good, and if that's the 
 case, I will add a half or whole point to the rating. I haven't played Penumbra Overture.
  
  Penumbra: Black Plague is a very immersive game. I got caught in the tense atmosphere after 
 a few minutes, and I promise you it is really scary. The atmosphere reminds me of the Silent Hill 
 series', the "there is something here, but I can't see ityet"-feeling. It is very dark, you'll 
 have to use a flashlight (you can adjust the gamma) . The sound effects are great and often play 
 upon actions you perform; making you think you just triggered something. What adds to the tension 
 is the fact that you, most probably, won't come out of a head-to-head fight with an enemy alive. 
 Trust me, don't even try. Instead you can try to interact with the surroundings or hide yourself 
 in the shadows. That works very well, so as you walk around, you will be searching for places to 
 hide if something should appear.
  
  Despite of the scary action-side, I would call it a mainly adventure and riddle-solving game in 
 which you'll be combining items you find along the way and reading research notes to learn how 
 to defeat enemies and move on. The riddles are of normal difficulty, makes you think some minutes, 
 but in the end, it is all quite logical. You can interact with several objects, picking them up, 
 rotating them or push and pull, you can even throw them, place them upon each other to construct 
 "paths" that gives you access to other areas and items (reminds me of the gun in Half-Life 2) .
 
  
  I don't consider this a big of a spoiler but, only after a few minutes you will realize there is 
 something inside your mind who repeatedly talks to you, "it" may give advice or scare you. All 
 in all, "it" is quite unstable, and I love the dialogues between "it" and you (even though your 
 character doesn't speak back) . It gets quite psychological.
  
  Quickly said about the graphics, they are satisfying.
  The story doesn't offer anything new (yet, 
 I haven't completed the game) , but works well: human experiments, infection, monsters, disappearances, 
 secret organization, hidden research, old tombs and organisms. However, the main questions are 
 "where is your dad" and" what is and how do I deal with "it" inside my head" . Personally, I can't 
 wait for the answers. The data-gathering will complete the missing parts of the story and you'll 
 find information on computer archives or research documents.
  
  On the other side, something made me not give it a 9 or 10. I can't really put my finger on it, 
 but I'll try to write something. I guess I wanted a small upgrade of the graphics, especially the 
 enemies, they could have been scarier. I also find that all the rooms contain a very limited number 
 of items and decorations, and many areas may seem too empty (like corridors) , but it might have 
 been made like that on purpose. In addition, I would have liked the game to make us take on the 
 enemies more often, not hide all the time. My preferences put aside, I would probably have given 
 the game a better score.
  
  I had to write this review as I just arrived in front of a door with the tag "kennel". Upon entering 
 it, -well you can guess what i saw- I had to take a pause. My heart was beating too fast, I had 
 to settle down a little, and so I realized I wanted that feeling to be experienced by you guys.
 
  
  Conclusion: immersive atmosphere, really scary and good interaction possibilities, great sound 
 effects and dialogue. Mainly a riddle-solving/adventure game, but with a constant threat for hardcore 
 action. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iq2luc
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 16, 2008 1:30 pm PT
Review:  Great graphics, BEST physics ever, thrilling sound effects, tremendous gameplay... overall -- a 
 super immersive atmosphere!
  I just love this game, I loved the first part too... and I looked forward to play the second -- 
 I wasn't disappointed at all!
  It just feels somehow different, I don't know how to name that 'different', but in the end I really 
 enjoyed it. I felt like playing a game - a damn good game!
  
  ---
  
  I bought a 'super PC' to play games like... Crysis for example, and I expected a lot from such 
 games; I did play them... for some hours and I get bored with a feeling that games are no more 
 'games' nowadays -- are just plain business behind a fancy look... somehow there is no more FUN 
 in 95% of today super-extra-mega-advertised games.
  
  Penumbra is one of the 5% left... you are having fun playing it and it surrounds you with a kind 
 of emotional aura (specially in the end, when it presents a regrettable truth about the human race, 
 but I won't spoil it) -- so, a BRAVO! and a 'thank you!' for all the people behind this game!
 
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
