-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Penumbra: Overture -- Episode One
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/penumbra/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Grim, subtle story and dark, atmospheric settings.
 Combat is very effective at conveying a sense of desperation.
 Physics engine allows direct manipulation of objects.
 Bleak visuals emphasize sense of loneliness and fear.
 Creepy dialogue and audio effects.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 A few design quirks and bugs.
 Combat is an acquired taste.
 As with most episodic games, it's pretty short.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: May  4, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.8
Critic Score: 7.3, 31 Review (s)
User Score: 8.0, 525 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Developer: Frictional Games
Genre: Horror Action Adventure
Date:     Mar 30, 2007 &raquo;  
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Penumbra is loaded with creepy psychological horror that really gets under your skin. 

  The world of video games might not have produced as many indie horror classics, but the next best 
 thing might just be Penumbra: Overture -- Episode One. This deeply creepy first-person action adventure 
 from Frictional Games may be so low budget that it first crept out of the grave in 2006 as a free 
 online demo, but it delivers in the shivers department. Although there isn't much here for action-first 
 splatterfest fans, and a few technical glitches make some aspects of the design more frustrating 
 than frightening, a constant sense of peril and isolation mean that you shouldn't play this one 
 unless you're happy to sleep with the lights on for a while.  

          Nice doggie.     

  As with all effective horror, atmosphere is paramount here. Penumbra 
 gets off to a Lovecraftian start with the lead character, Phillip, getting a letter out of the 
 blue from his long-missing father. The old man was apparently declared dead some 30 years before, 
 but that didn't prevent him from licking a stamp and directing his son to a safety deposit box 
 filled with indecipherable notebooks and a map of northern Greenland. All of this is more than 
 a tad surreal. None of the backstory is explained, there is no character development, and you're 
 not even clued in on why Phillip decides to head off to Greenland and wander around by himself 
 in a blizzard. While this style of storytelling won't please fans of rigorous plots, the vagueness 
 gives the game a gauzy, dreamy vibe. All of the action takes place in a mausoleum-like abandoned 
 mine, too, which heightens both the weirdness and the sense of being detached from the real world. 

  Yet at the same time, this adventure is down to earth in many ways. Interacting with your surroundings 
 is courtesy of a standard point-and-click interface, but you also have the ability to manually 
 manipulate just about every object in the game. Doors, for example, aren't opened simply by clicking 
 on them. Instead, you have to click on them and then pull them open by drawing back the cursor. 
 You can similarly shove, carry, and pull just about every object in the game, from rocks to barrels 
 of TNT. This gives you a tremendous amount of control over the environments and provides the game 
 with organic puzzles. The developers haven't gone too far with this concept, either, so you're 
 not constantly turning wheels or pulling open drawers. There is always a good reason for manipulating 
 objects, and this usually involves solving commonsense conundrums by constructing a ramp over an 
 electric fence with boards, sliding shelves out of the way to reveal a passage, stacking boxes 
 to make a jumping platform, and other tasks that are similarly equal parts brainwork and busywork. 

  Combat is a bit iffy, though. It works along the same lines as what's described above, which means 
 that you fight by mimicking actual movements like swinging a hammer or a two-by-four. The feel 
 is similar to the mouse-swing mechanic in a golf game. This makes battles more intense than in 
 the usual click-to-kill game, as your occasional bouts with creatures like undead dogs and giant 
 spiders are realistically frantic and desperate. Unfortunately, fights are also so frenetic that 
 it's almost impossible to control your movements. The camera angle locks when you hold down the 
 mouse button and go into attack mode, which is a big headache because the nasties you battle never 
 stay fixed in one spot and can take a lot of punishment before shuffling off this mortal coil. 
 You eventually get used to combat (the trick is to keep hammering enemies when they go down) , but 
 it would have been much more sensible for the camera to lock on and move with enemies.  

  But maybe that would have made things too easy. The end result of the difficult combat is that 
 you feel like an average Joe who wants to avoid zombie dogs with glowing eyes, not a video game 
 superman out to stack dead canines like cordwood. In some ways, Penumbra is a cross between an 
 adventure game and a stealth game like Thief or Splinter Cell. Phillip sure isn't much of a warrior. 
 Staring directly at an enemy for too long causes him to go into a panic attack and the screen to 
 get fuzzy and shaky, which can result in him standing up abruptly and revealing himself. Phillip's 
 very good at hiding when not freaked out, however. He can crouch down for a few moments in the 
 shadows and become invisible to passersby. There is no gem or similar interface gimmick to let 
 you know when you're safely tucked away, although the screen takes on a blue hue and your vision 
 improves whenever you're hidden from prying eyes. Many creatures in the game have fixed patrol 
 routes as well, which further lets you play the game as if Phillip were Garrett or Sam Fisher. 

  Other aspects of Penumbra are similarly low key. Visuals are sparse but effective. Yet even though 
 the visuals are a bit rough, the grainy textures, smeared brown-and-gray backdrops, and heavy shadows 
 clouding details everywhere seem calculated to enhance the sensation that you're in a nightmare. 
 If the graphics were sharper and more realistic, the creep factor wouldn't be nearly as strong. 
 The game's audio is stellar. This game may have been made on the cheap, but the developers didn't 
 cut corners when it came to dialogue and voice acting. The actor voicing Phillip does a great job 
 of capturing the fear of being stranded alone in the dark, and your insane tour guide, Red, is 
 one of the craziest, most memorable characters you'll ever meet in a game. Sound effects in the 
 game are extremely creepy. The only noises you hear much of the time are the creaking floorboards, 
 the echo of stone under your feet, the lionlike growl of the zombie doggies, and the chittering 
 of spiders around the next corner. Music adds chills, with pianos and drumbeats underlining discoveries 
 and the approach of monsters.  

          Sometimes you want subtle, growing horror; other times you just want to skip to the quick 
 gross-out.     

  Even with the solid presentation, Penumbra is exposed as the work of a small time developer in 
 spots. The biggest issue here is length. Even with a number of tough fights and lots of exploring, 
 you can finish the game in six or seven hours. That's good enough for the $20 price tag, but it's 
 not a stellar deal. The game is overly sensitive to changes made to the video and audio settings, 
 as well. Enabling something as straightforward as hardware support for a sound card can cause the 
 game to crash when loading, and there is no way to go back to the default settings without manually 
 deleting the settings configuration file. From the same "Why the heck did they do that?" department 
 comes the decision to lock out saving on demand in the default configuration settings. To enable 
 this undocumented feature, you need to edit the config file with a text editor. Doing so isn't 
 rocket science (all you need to do is change a "false" statement to read "true") -- and the default 
 autosave and option to save manually at artifacts in specific locations actually work great -- but 
 a feature like saving at any time shouldn't be hidden or require any messing around outside of 
 the game itself.  

  Even with these eccentricities, Penumbra: Overture -- Episode One remains a great spookfest. The 
 physics engine, the unremittingly grim and bizarre storyline, and the fact that you can be killed 
 at almost any moment by some creature lurching out of the darkness really get into your head. Bring 
 on episode two.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (29 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: flclempire
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 17, 2009 3:56 pm PT
Review:  Good:
  1. The graphics are fine for their time.
  2. The sound is very immersive, both music and sound effects.
  3. There is real tension at all 
 times, mostly from raw anticipation and paranoia. But right when you start to calm down the game 
 throws something else at you ^^.
  4. You must think on your feet. I absolutely loved the running sequence involving the rock worm. 
 
  5. Atmosphere and the "feeling" of the story. Its what penumbra is all about. That and easy puzzles 
 :P
  
  Bad:
  1. Low lighting can give me a headache after a while.
  2. Dogs. Yeah, great for the first few encounters, then they just get old. After a while of getting 
 spotted you'll learn that you can just run right by them and they become even less interesting.
 
  3. The combat is horrible. You rarely have to fight, but when you do the outcome is pretty random 
 unless you have stuff to throw at your enemy to stun them. But then again it makes each fight hectic 
 and desperate.
  
  Overall:
  Its a great game for its day. They seemed to get a little lazy with level design and with the enemies 
 though. I recommend this game to anyone who enjoys slow, atmospheric games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Enok6
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 19, 2009 1:52 am PT
Review:  Penumbra : overture is a typical horror game but what sets it apart ?
  for starters the physic engine is very realistic .
  you can use the mouse "kinda" like a Wii 
 remote. with that i meen when you open drawers/doors, swing a hammer And so on, you use believable 
 movements with your mouse.
  
  Story:
  Your Father left you and your mother when you were a boy. one day you get a letter with a bank 
 safe key in it. in the safe there is information about your father was in Greenland. you go to 
 Greenland and get lost. right before 
  you die of cold you find a iron hatch. you go down, it is dark cold and you see no sign of life.
 
  
  Gameplay:
  you will have to solve challenging puzzles and sneak past enemies. it is not a very good idea to 
 confront them because you are just a normal man not a one man army.
  You will use the physic engine to solve puzzles and maybe the mouse control's to pick up a rock 
 and whack a enemy in the back of the head.
  you are not the bravest man in the world. if you are hiding corner in a dark corner your eyesight 
 turns blue so it is easy to see but if the enemy stares you right the face you will panic and stand 
 up and revile yourself.
  
  All and all Penumbra: overture is a great game which i think is under rated by the gaming community. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: akhorahill
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 10, 2009 9:18 am PT
Review:  Penumbra is an amazing horror adventure game. Though its graphics are not top notch and the textures 
 and enemies are overused, the atmosphere is dense, heavy and it really crawls under your skin. 
 It's hard not to wish the devs have had more money and time.
  
  The game takes place in Greenland, in a cold and desolated mining facility. The main character, 
 Philip, receives a letter from his long deceased father, and even though the notes do not make 
 much sense, he decides to follow the footsteps of his progenitor and find out the true story of 
 his demise.
  
  From the moment Philip steps in Greenland, he begins to feel the adversity of the environment. 
 There will actually be few, if any, safe havens in the game. At first, a dark tunnel sealed by 
 a metal hatch will seem like a relief from the bone chilling winds of Greenland but as the hatch 
 closes, Philip will start to hear snarls in the distance, whispering voices, hisses and soft footsteps 
 around the corner.
  
  This dense and palpable atmosphere is surely the game's strongest point. It'll make you fear going 
 past a corridor or enter a room, just by suggesting the presence of an unnatural enemy. It's specifically 
 stronger in the first hours where you have no idea what kind of enemy you'll be facing. The sound 
 engine plays a key part here as the noises - small rocks being scattered as somebody or something 
 comes closer, muffled cries and all sort of creepy sounds - make sure you're on your toes. As you 
 hear an enemy coming closer, Philip will start panting and you'll be able to hear its heart pounding 
 heavily. It can be really nerve wrecking. Once the lights are on and you figure out what you're 
 up against, the atmosphere loses some of its charms but only because the graphics are not top notch 
 like the sound and 3D engine. That's not to say the graphics ruin the game, but as the same enemies 
 are somehow overused, some of the initial golden moments are lost. 
  
  The core game play in Penumbra is to avoid enemies as much as you can and go deeper and deeper 
 inside the complex, trying to find out what happened there and how in hell it connects to your 
 father. Exploration requires one to solve well conceived puzzles that make use of the game's 3D 
 engine. Speaking of which, Penumbra differs in the way it allows one to interact with the environment. 
 Instead of a simple click, it requires one to use the mouse to mimic the action. For instance, 
 opening a drawer requires one to place the cursor over it, click and drag the mouse backwards. 
 It might feel a bit cumbersome at first but after a few attempts, it'll be as smooth as a simple 
 click. Combat also requires one to swing the mouse wildly in order to attack but rather than a 
 bad design choice, I'd say combat is intentionally made cumbersome so you won't feel encouraged 
 to charge every enemy you find.
  
  The 3D engine also plays an important role as you move crates, planks and objects around, be it 
 to create a barricade to prevent enemies from flooding into a room or to build up a way to reach 
 an item on a very high place. 
  
  Without going into much detail and ruining someone's experience, it should be noted that the game 
 encourages one to try different ways to interact with the items in its inventory, the objects in 
 the environment and with the character itself. 
  
  Penumbra is a game to be enjoyed in the dark, by those who like to explore the surroundings. It's 
 not a long experience, roughly 8 hours, but I'd say it's perfect for such an engrossing atmosphere. 
 A longer game would definitely hurt the fear and dread. It's perfect for those who enjoy a horror 
 experience and feel that they could give their double barrel shotgun some well deserved rest. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TugaSoldatTV
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 23, 2008 4:39 pm PT
Review:  Penumbra Overture is a great game.
  
  
  The game can really put you in the skin of Phillip (the main character) and will make sure you 
 stay focused on the story. You can easily manipulate every object in the levels, like doors, boxes, 
 pipes, rocks and what so ever. This makes the game even more realistic.
  
  The atmosphere is just creepy, and so is the music. In fact, you must hide in the dark if you dont 
 want to be detected by the hostile creatures that walk the land. The story, based on the book, 
 is really well done, and some dialogs are also good.
  
  Now, what is bad in this game, is the combat mode. Its simply broken and im glad they removed it 
 on Black Plague. And speaking of B. P, to bad i played that one first, so i already knew what was 
 going to happen on Overture, but the tension and scares were still there, so, it didn't made much 
 of a difference.
  
  
  Overall, Overture is inferior to Black Plague, and can be really hard to avoid enemies without 
 getting killed alot, but its damn scary to play and specially if you dont know the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dennylson
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 26, 2008 3:17 am PT
Review:  When I first heard about the Penumbra series, it was actually back in February 2008. I was looking 
 for a new horror game to play and noticed that a game called Penumbra Black Plague had just come 
 out. After looking into it more, I realised that this was the second game in the series so I decided 
 to get Overture first so I could experience it from the beginning and I'm pleased that I did!
 
  
  Penumbra Overture is a first-person horror adventure game set inside a mine in Greenland and the 
 developers have tried to emphasise stealth tactics rather than combat to progress through the game. 
 You play as Phillip who has travelled there after receiving a letter from his thought to be dead 
 father in a bleak quest to find out what the hell happened to him.
  
  The atmosphere setting is fantastically well executed and along with the gloomy (but not brilliant) 
 graphics, it really creates a feeling of dread and isolation. The first time I came into contact 
 with one of the infected dogs, I was so scared to move that I didn't want to come out of my hiding 
 place incase the dog saw me. This, unfortunately, is where the fear factor got slightly diluted. 
 After sneaking by a few dogs to start with, I just wanted to see how easy (or hard) it was to kill 
 one of these beasts. It was ridiculously easy and after discovering this, I didn't think there 
 was much point in sneaking around anymore as it was much easier to just kill them with a few swift 
 blows of the pickaxe and get them out the way! The spiders are an even more crude enemy and when 
 you establish that these are your only threats, the game gets a lot less scary. The game then became 
 a bit of a cake walk and not all that enjoyable. 
  
  I liked the game mechanics very much. The developers have implemented a physics system that enables 
 you to pick up, throw and push objects around. It's all in the mouse movement. To open a door, 
 you have to click on it and pull the mouse backwards or forwards to mimic the action. This system 
 plays a big part in the various puzzles you have to solve throughout the game too. The puzzles 
 are not too difficult either, you just need a bit of common sense to solve them.
  
  To sum up, I would say that Overture is a strong introduction to the series but flawed because 
 it really isn't necessary to use stealth like the developers wanted you to. It's a lot easier to 
 just kill your enemies so I hope that in Black Plague, this issue is addressed and put right as 
 it will help to maintain the high fear factor. I can't say I loved this game but I did like it 
 enough to want to carry on playing the series. This is mainly down to the mysterious storyline 
 that is quite intriguing and I look forward to playing Black Plague. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cornbredx
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 22, 2008 1:52 pm PT
Review:  There's alot of great reasons to play this game. The most notable is what everyones talked about, 
 the physics engine and the way it uses physics to do puzzles. My favorite of all the great things 
 in this game is the story. I personally think this is probably the best story in a video game I've 
 played in a long time (IMO this story beats bioshocks and thats probably because BioShock was ultimately 
 copying another story so it wasnt quite as creative) .
  
  Bear with me here, I love this game (im an adventure game nut that hasnt had a good fix in awhile 
 until I found this gem) and I've played both this and its sequel both of which are great games. 
 Forgive me for that, but I will try to be as true to my observations and not lead you down the 
 road of just "This games great because I say so" (which, I have sadly done in the past and do not 
 intend to do again) .
  
  Graphics: Im doing this first because while superbly fitting, the graphics are the worst in the 
 game (or maybe, more accurately, the animation? Im not sure but I probably mean animation as well 
 as details of the characters [how they're drawn] ) . I am able play these games first off on max 
 settings so no I do not have a computer problem making them look funky, they just do and I think 
 (thankfully) they honestly sacrificed a little budget from graphics/animation in light of gameplay 
 and story which imo is a good thing for this game. Like I said though, I'm not knocking the graphics 
 at all, they are fitting for what the game is, and to Frictional Games credit you could technically 
 go through the whole game never seeing or barely glancing at the different nasty creatures that 
 pervade the dank mine that will be your home for the entirety of the story. Everything, while not 
 the best graphically, fits perfectly into the world they created though and really helps set the 
 mood. In my humble opinoin this game is best played using only the green glowstick for light as 
 well as lights around the mine. It helps make it even creepier (not that it needs help with that) .
 
  
  Sounds/Music: The low quality of graphics aside (trust me, they're decent enough for what this 
 game is.. do not take those statements to mean otherwise) everything else in the game, to me is 
 at the high end of the spectrum. For instance, sound. Not alot of games for some reason or other 
 seem to care to much for their own ambience. It gets muddled in music and other ferocious sound 
 effects. This game intends for certain feelings to course through, it is a horror after all and 
 you need to be scared or at least on edge (I was on edge through both games) and have silence broken 
 be a serious moment. The ambience in this game does what music does for most games. You'll hear 
 a clank in the distance and wonder if something is following you or a growl to your left and wonder 
 if you've been spotted. Its great how its done and if nothing else I can only say that I wish it 
 didnmt always sound like everything was on top of you alrdy but rather around you. I played this 
 with head phones on (another adding to the creepiness hehe) and noticed whenever a creature was 
 nearby but maybe say, in the hall next to the hall your in, it sounded like you were right on top 
 of it rather then the next hallway over. It added to the tension as you cant always tell if you've 
 actually stumbled on a creature in the dark or if your just hearing them in the distance. Maybe 
 its intentional, as I said it adds to the tension, but it seemed odd to me so I'm mentioning it. 
 The ambience, though, is very good in this game and the music is equally fitting the mood but not 
 over bearing. The music generally is very soft and almost non existant when your searching the 
 mines and you'll know when something interesting is happening because the music shifts and suddenly 
 its very exciting and intense. Thats generally your que to run for your life and really helps sell 
 the tension of the game wonderfully. I loved it! In the words of a funny man: "It was vewy good"
 
  
  Puzzles/Combat: Appropriate is a good word here. Thing of note though, theres a tiny bit of combat 
 in this game which is more of a puzzle in itself because of the "physics" system they decided to 
 use in combat as well. You have to actually move the mouse to motion the direction in which you 
 swing. Not completely accurate or intuitive, but at least it doesnt get stuck at the worst times 
 like AITD did. Overall, it was done well but the combat system has a purely afterthought feeling 
 to it and honestly to me its unnecessary to have in the game at all in all portions except maybe 
 one part and even then you dont technically need it, it just made it easier for me. All in all 
 you'd be better off always running away (which they made it clear quite early in the story youd 
 probably prefer to do that) or if your really better then me staying hidden.
  Another form of puzzle in this is the hiding, btw, (terrible seguay... sorry) in which you hide 
 in the dark very much like Chronicles of Riddick. While its great to see this in use again, and 
 one of many options you have throughout the game in avoiding creatures, its probably your second 
 best option when confronted with obstacles of deadly teeth caliber (combat being the third choice) . 
 Its second because while they'll teach you to do it early on (and it is definitely more useful 
 in this then the sequel) you are just as well off running everywhere. Honestly you can just run 
 past everything that attacks you but beware this option I chose as the best has its cost. First 
 they can catch up with you easy, second you die fairly easy (its not unforgivingly easy to die 
 though) , and third they chase you until you block them or leave the area they are in. Whatever 
 option you choose to use, choose what fits your playstyle. I chose in this one to hide sometimes 
 and others run. Combat was an extreme circumstance choice I only had to resort to one time.
  Lastly, the puzzles (the by nature puzzles that once you get past progresses you in the story, 
 the reason we play these) are superb as well as the UI. Everything is done as if done by your own 
 hand. I could nit pick it but its not necessary. You open doors by clicking and pulling the mouse 
 to open the door. You open drawers the same way, and you turn, push, or open other various things 
 the same way. Its very intuitive and enjoyable. The puzzles are that of logic fitting into this 
 mechanic (Ala halflife... we knew it would pave the way for these types of games some day) and 
 mostly puzzles are merely ways to get further in the story more so then doing a mini game to progress. 
 Its old fashioned in some ways and very next gen in others to me and fit very nicely.
  
  Story: I cant say much here or I'll spoil it. It's a creative and fresh idea the farther you go, 
 always keeping you in the dark (heh excuse the pun) , and I cant say anymore in fear I'll spoil 
 anything about it. You'll have to play to make your opinoin on the story, but IMO while not entirely 
 new of an idea, it is a remarkable ride and fun to play through start to finish.
  
  Overall Gameplay/"Fun Factor": This game is fun. Hands down. I think even non adventure gamers 
 would like this game for its well told story and intuitive puzzles- I do have a few quarrels with 
 it, but not enough to risk ruining the story or putting down- and I can only say if you like survival 
 horror this is a step into a new generation of adventure gaming that I am eagerly awaiting to see 
 what more games follow in suit. You may want to play it if you havent already. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: asafs16
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 31, 2008 3:50 am PT
Review:  you thought F. E. A. R was scary?
  you thought DOOM was scary? 
  you thought RE4 was scary?
  
  well guess again... from all the horror games i have played in my life and belive me i played 
 in a lot of horror games, PENUMBRA was the scariest game ever!!!, really scary music and allways 
 dark when i played there were times when i farted non-stop beacuse i was scared and there were 
 times when i stoped the game went out of the room to relex a little and back in
  PENUMBRA IS THE SCARY OF TOMORROW, the greaphics arent that good like crysis, bioshock and more... 
 but its pretty good after all this game was made buy a small group of students, its a great game 
 that combine two things: HORROR, and, SHYCOLOGY , you need to think alot in order to proceed to 
 the game, the only problem in the game is that: to short, there were times when i was happy that 
 it was short beacuse it was so scary
  
  but now i think that if the game was longer it was even better, the game suffers from some bugs 
 but thats ok 2
  
  im happy that in this game there isnt weapons "at all" that is one of the things that make the 
 game so scary!!!, youll have to run and hide and throw things like rocks and cans in order to survive
 
  
  great game!! if you are a real horror type man you will have that game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brad_the_one
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 15, 2008 7:28 am PT
Review:  Recently I played the demo for Penumbra: Black Plague, after completely the demo I loved it and 
 decided that I would play the first chapter before I played black plague. 
  
  All I can say is wow the game is great. There I said it! This is what a horror game should be. 
 I am not going to go into the story because other reviews have covered it better than I could. 
 The game play is great, you use the mouse to collect objects, swing weapons and interact with the 
 environment (by that I mean opening doors, picking up barrels etc) but it is the use of the mouse 
 that really gets you immersed in this game, picture this, you hear a noise on the other side of 
 the door, its your only way forward, you slowly approach the door and grab the door, now depending 
 on whether you push the door forward hard or soft will depend on how fast or slow the door opens 
 (the same applies for where you grab the door; grab it close to the hinges and you will need to 
 use more force, but grab it closer to the handle and it will be easier) this adds to the suspense 
 because you can slowly open the door peaking inside to make sure the way forward is clear or you 
 can swing the door open and just deal with it. The sound also is great, it helps set suspense and 
 drama where needed and help indicate where the creatures are and any good horror game needs to 
 have effective sound and this game hit the nail on the head.
  
  The only negatives of this game I found are that it is too short; completed the game in around 
 6-7 hours, but you could argue quality over quantity because they are 7 hours well spent. The graphics 
 are not up to scratch, poor backgrounds and blocky creatures are not appealing although when you 
 are crawling through a spider infested crawl space it will still scare you. Another problem is 
 that although the controls fit the puzzle and interacting elements well, I wish I could say the 
 same about the fighting, which involves holding down the mouse button to ready your weapon and 
 then moving the mouse left, right or forward to swing, and although it sounds good it doesn't work 
 well, and in a game where all it takes is around 3 hits to die you can't afford to miss swings. 
 
  
  Overall: This is a great survival game, if you are a fan of survival games then this should be 
 played, if however you don't play horror/survival games then this is unlikely to change your mind 
 but the puzzle and interactive elements definitely add to your immersion in this game. Although 
 the graphics could be better and it is on the short side you won't find a game with such as good 
 combination of game play and amazing sound. (except maybe the sequel)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: spectralmerc
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 23, 2008 5:33 pm PT
Review:  It isn't easy to scare me. No japanese movie can make me scream, noSilent Hill game really impressed 
 me. Doom 3 didn't even surprise me. Why is that? Because true horror lies in your mind. And to 
 deceive the mind, it takes more than cheap make up and sudden monsters.
  
  Penumbra is about Phillip, a physicist who receives a lett from his dead father, warning him about 
 Greenland and how it must be avoided. Of course, the first thing Phillip does is go to Greenland, 
 and both his and your misfortunes begin there.
  
  What surprises the most about this game is the solid it is for it's 20$ price tag (now around 10$ 
 if you know where to look) . While it's graphics aren't exactly Unreal Engine 3 quality, the dynamic 
 shadows, the subtle lighting and overall grittyness contribute enormously in creating a visually 
 decent experience. However, what most sucks you in is the physics. Everything can be moved or carried, 
 and even used as a weapon. However, combat is never the best option, since you won't last more 
 than 3 hits, and you're always limited to melee. This emphasizes the game's despair atmosphere, 
 and it will have you sweating (and swearing) in no time.
  
  The sound is the thing that will have you cursing the most. Sudden noises when nothing is there, 
 whispering in your ear and claws on doors will keep you more than in your toes, and it is not too 
 much of a relief finding nothing is there... because that means that something might be right behind 
 you. Is this kind of constant paranoia and angst that makes this game a true jewel, despite of 
 some flaws, like a wonky (yet effective, if you go for realism) combat system, lack of save-anywhere 
 and it's damn short duration. Sure, it's episodic, but when a game scares you this good, you kinda 
 ache for more.
  
  In a word, great. A terrific game (literally) that is a must-have for any horror fans.
  
  Piece 
 of Advice: Buy the second part with this one. That way you will enjoy the ending more.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: WonderBread88
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 14, 2008 9:16 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay/Interface: 8/10
  - Pitch-black horror story with only a flashlight and a glowstick to lead your way. Game certainly 
 wasn't the scariest game I've ever played but was definately creepy. Their really isn't much combat 
 and when their is it can be a bit difficult to kill your enemy. The environment puzzles can really 
 be interesting and challenging but at times it seems like thats all you really do. I did really 
 think it was great how the game had monitor and gameplay instructions at the beginning. The gameplay 
 style really reminded me of Silent Hill, just with out all the combat and now in first person.
 
  
  Environment & Immersion: 7/10
  - The whole environment is like one big maze, your in an old mineshaft and bunker that has long 
 been abandoned. Environment is truely repetitive in the sense that every room, with a few exceptions, 
 contains pretty much the same items and details. With in the first few hours the game is very addicting 
 and quite creepy, after getting used to your enemy the scariness somewhat fades away.
  
  Graphics/Physics: 6.5/10
  - Lighting is great but darkness is a blur. Theres really not a whole 
 lot to look at and enjoy being its so dark everything looks the same, when their is light you can 
 really tell that the game has great graphics.... but this doesn't happen too often enough.
  
  Sound: 8.5/10
  - Great sound, it really adds a lot to the creepiness and fear value. Environment 
 and voice sounds are the best out of this category, the voices are creepy and lonely sounding and 
 the environment sounds have a realistic feeling to them.
  
  Bugs, Stability & Performance: 9/10
  - No noticeable bugs or slowdown at all. Saving your game 
 was quite an oddball out of any game I played, it really never even notifies you that you saved.
 
  
  Replay value: 5/10
  - This game was truely fun but the way its an episodic story and its short, It will certainly be 
 a long time before I can enjoy playing this one again without remembering everything.
  
  Value for money: 8/10
  - For such a different style horror game, and one thats interesting it 
 really is worth the cheap price. Could have been longer though.
  
  Will this game be remembered by old school gamers as a classic after 10 years?:
  - Not really 
 since this game is kind of an unknown series but still has a bit of potential.
  
  Who would I recommend to buy the game?:
  - People who enjoyed games like Silent Hill or the Condemned 
 series would probably like this as well. Any diehard horror fan.
  
  -----------------------------------------------
  
  Overall: 7.5 - A dark horror game that will 
 leave some sleeping with a flashlight by their side... or maybe a glowstick. Can get a bit repetitive 
 at times but overall is rather fun. Overall I would say some will be at edge with the game but 
 others won't even be phased by the scariness. Can't say this game is really re-playable but still 
 worth playing with its bargain price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Indecipherable
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 5, 2008 6:06 am PT
Review:  If you're used to being the hunter or a one-man-army or stuff like that, Penumbra: Overture has 
 a surprise for you. In this game, you're nothing more than an average guy, who is unfortunately 
 very easily killed. However, this should not deter you from embarking in one of the most frightening 
 yet rewarding journeys.
  General: Penumbra: Overture is an action-adventure game, although the action is downplayed in favour 
 of logical puzzles. The puzzles most of the time consist of a closed door, and the only way to 
 progress is utilize what you have at your disposas, namely almost everything in the immediate area. 
 The game doesn't have you pixel-hunting. Instead, you can use a stone to break the ice around a 
 hatch and then turn the wheel, thus opening it. This is only an example of the puzzles you will 
 face. Not always obvious, but certainly not ridiculously implausible.
  Story: For fear of ruining the story, i will reveal nothing about it.... Suffice to say that it 
 is highly immersive and sets the scene perfectly for the things about to come.
  Graphics: Admittedly, the graphics are bit dated and certainly not up to par with the recent next-gen 
 games. However, they do an amazing work at depicting the dark and twised world you must face. 
 
  Sound: Ah, the sound. This is the main aspect of this game that will keep you at the edge of you 
 seat. Crawling noises, sudden bangs and subtle whispers will have you constantly looking behind 
 your back....
  Gameplay: The gamepay is just right. Most of the time you'll have no problems accomplishing your 
 tasks. However, the battle mechanics don't always work as good, which is also one of the reasons 
 you will avoid battle more often than not, instead relying on your good two feet to keep you out 
 of trouble...
  All in all, Penumbra: Overture is a must-play, if you've been longing to test your problem-solving 
 skills and don't mind the occasional good scare. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -THA-hamst3r
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 23, 2008 12:01 am PT
Review:  To read this review in it's original formatting with images and video, go here:
  http://www. hamst3r. com/article/57/thoughts-on-the-penumbra-series
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Thoughts on Penumbra: Black Plague & Penumbra: Overture
  
  I just finished playing Penumbra: Black Plague, the final chapter in the Penumbra series made by 
 Frictional Games.
  
  One word summary: Awesome.
  
  At least90% awesome. There were a few sections in Black Plague that I could have done without, 
 but overall the game was fantastic. The game is short, but it's short like Portal, meaning that 
 the four hours one spends in the game are the best 4 hours ever. Sadly though this is the end of 
 the series. Black Plague is no longer part of a trilogy as originally planned
  
  Black Plague was going to be the middle chapter in a trilogy of horror games, but due to unstated 
 reasons Black Plague became the second and last game in the Penumbra series. I'm assuming the reasons 
 are financial due to the game being made by a small independent developer for the niche Survival 
 Horror market and as a PC exclusive release. I think it's pretty clear that the odds were not in 
 the developer's favor.
  
  But from this developer has come a truly magnificent entry in to the history books of Survival 
 Horror games.
  
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  The main innovation of the Penumbra series is the unique way that you manipulate objects in the 
 game. In most games, to open a door you simply press a key or click a button and the door opens. 
 When you open a door in Penumbra you have a lot more control over how you do it. Think of the mouse 
 cursor as your on-screen hand, which isn't difficult in the game as your cursor is actually shaped 
 like a hand. Using this hand you grab the door and then push or pull it in the direction you want 
 it to move. You can push doors open as fast or as slow as you want. If you right click while holding 
 the door you will throw the door open as fast as possible.
  
  You can use this same technique to open cabinets and drawers, pick up items, throw items, move 
 boxes and to use just about anything else in the game. Both Penumbra games are driven by this concept. 
 You'll use it to solve nearly every puzzle in the two games. The puzzles also have very logical 
 solutions. There are no complex, brain-melting riddles. There's no need to collect prosthetic skin 
 so you can stretch it over a manhole and use it as a trampoline. There are no puzzles that require 
 you to microwave a unicorn statue and then deliver it to a government agent on the moon. All of 
 the puzzles in Penumbra are solved with real-world logic.
  
  For instance one puzzle in Black Plague requires you to open a locked gate. You do this by first 
 locating a bent metal rod and bringing it over to the gate. You have free control over the rotation 
 of item you're carrying, so you need to rotate the metal rod and then wedge it between the gate 
 and the frame. Once the rod's in place you grab the edge of it and pull as hard as you can to snap 
 the lock on the gate. The puzzles do get more complex than this but nothing will have you pulling 
 or your hair trying to figure out what useless junk you need to combine next.
  
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  [VIDEO]
  
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  The amount of immersion gained from this kind of interactivity is astounding  it really helps 
 put you right there in the game and makes it feel even scarier. It would be nice if all games had 
 a play mechanic that felt so natural. No more, "press the use key" to pick an item up. If you want 
 to pick up the item you just click on it and you've picked it up! It's such a simple mechanism 
 but it works well and I can't think of any other games that have it.
  
  Both games have well written and at times very funny scripts. In both games after about an hour 
 of mucking around on your own you finally find some companionship in a disembodied voice. In Overture 
 a character starts talking to you over a radio that you find and in Black Plague a different individual 
 is apparently located inside of your head. Not to give too much away I'll stop there. This method 
 of delivery works very well in the game and does not feel like a cop-out as it does in some games.
 
  
  Another way that Black Plague differs from Overture is in the combat. Black Plague doesn't have 
 any. There are still enemies, but this time around it's best if you just run away from them and 
 find some other way to outwit them that doesn't require direct confrontation. Black Plague does 
 still have the occasional enemy encounter but they are resolved through the use of your environment 
 rather than trying to clumsily swing a pick axe at them as they tear you to bits.
  
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  The graphics in the Penumbra series can be best described as dated. The graphics aren't anywhere 
 near those in Crysis. What they are though is effective and that's good enough. The lighting and 
 atmosphere is what really saves the graphics. The lighting is great, at least what of it is there 
 to be great, as the game is also very dark. You do carry a Flashlight, a glow-stick and some road 
 flares, but when there are enemies lurking around the last thing you want to do is alert them to 
 where you are by shining a light in their direction.
  
  The music in both Penumbra games is very fitting and helps to create an atmosphere of tension and 
 constant danger. Every area seems to have it's own unique creepy music too, which is a nice touch. 
 In Black Plague as you enter the dog kennel area, a familiar cue from Overture fades in, getting 
 right under the skin of anyone who's played Penumbra: Overture. Another bonus is that the music 
 is easily accessible in the game directories as OGG files for those who want to listen to the quality 
 themes some more.
  
  Overall, Penumbra: Overture and Penumbra: Black Plague are very good games. Black Plague is a decidedly 
 better game with it's more puzzle oriented focus and more interesting environments, but I do feel 
 that Overture has the more interesting and amusing acquaintance named Red. Red is a good guy if 
 not a bit neurotic. He's a very lovable and helpful character, guiding you throughout the game. 
 Clarence on the other hand can be down right cruel and manipulative. Clarence also always refers 
 to you as, "Monkey". Both characters are interesting and add a lot of depth and emotion to the 
 Penumbra games.
  
  If you love scary games, Penumbra is an excellent choice. Penumbra will draw you in and toy with 
 you in ways other horror games simply can't.
  
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  [VIDEO]
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RexTTer
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 7, 2008 10:26 am PT
Review:  After downloading the demo of Black Plague I realised this was the prequel, so decided to play 
 this one first (Black Plague is on order which hints at how good this review is going to end!) .
 
  
  The atmosphere was great, very scary with good music that compliments the mood well. My wife and 
 I played this game together and really enjoyed solving the puzzles. They are quite sensible in 
 that you know what you need to achieve and have a good idea how it should be done. Some of the 
 puzzles are fiendish and you feel really pleased with yourself when you've solved a particularly 
 difficult one. We were even heard to cheer our efforts at certain points.
  
  Whilst it is true the controls can be a little fiddly we played the game from start to finish on 
 my laptop mostley on one of our laps with one of those touch-pad thingies instead of a mouse. So 
 really it is not to hard to play.
  
  Although the game is scary all the way through and there are times when a shock will make you jump, 
 there are times of humor too. For example, the references to 'Freeman' are fun to find. Should 
 anyone know who he might be :)
  
  This game was so good we've bought the follow-on. It is quality thoroughout and what you miss in 
 a long game is more than made up for in the fantastic quality of the game we have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctor_kaz
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 5, 2008 7:01 am PT
Review:  The Penumbra series is one of the most pleasant surprises in the recent months of PC gaming. This 
 pair of games is a cross between a traditional adventure and 1st person survival horror. The combination 
 of gameplay styles feels very refreshing and new, and just as important, the story is captivating 
 too. This first chapter, Overture, is a successful kick-off of the series. If it has one major 
 shortcoming, it's the controls, which can be insanely frustrating at key times. If you are looking 
 for a refreshing take on the adventure genre, and if you are in the mood for some creeps, then 
 you should enjoy this first chapter of the Penumbra story. Hopefully, the controls won't make you 
 pull your hair out first.
  
  Penumbra casts you as Phillip, a man living in England who gets a letter from his dying father, 
 whom he hardly knows. The letter tells you to destroy a book that he has kept in a safety deposit 
 box. Instead of destroying the book, however, you use it to find an abandoned mine underneath the 
 ice in Greenland, where many things have gone horribly wrong. Soon, you encounter a strange friend 
 who helps you through the game. It is a classic setup for a survival horror game, and when it comes 
 to atmosphere, This game ranks with the best in the business. What happened in this mine, and why 
 does your dad want you to destroy all evidence of it? Who is this friend of yours and why does 
 he help you? The story pulls you in immediately and never lets you go.
  
  There isn't much writing in the game, but what is there is top-notch. Instead of overwhelming you 
 with cut scenes or dialog, Overture lets you pick up the story in little pieces like notes or other 
 clues in the environment. It ends with a twist that packs an emotional punch, and it succeeds because 
 of how well the mystery is told. One of Penumbra's best accomplishments is that it has the unconventional 
 charm of an indie title, without the low-budget cheese that typically accompanies such a game. 
 This is a good thing, because without it, the story would fail.
  
  For the five or six hours that it takes to complete this chapter, you never feel safe. The game 
 constantly reinforces how isolated you are, how much danger you are in, or how quickly you could 
 freeze to death outside the mine. Even when there are no enemies around, you never feel entirely 
 secure, as if danger or death is always one step away. One of the main reasons for this feeling 
 of danger is that when enemies do appear, the game does, in fact, become very hard. This is partly 
 because the game is designed as a survival horror experience which forces you to use stealth. It 
 is also partly because of the game's faulty stealth gameplay and broken combat  more on that later.
 
  
  Adventure games have been somewhat notorious for outdated gameplay and unintuitive puzzles. Penumbra 
 destroys these problems by adopting a first person perspective, high quality textures and lighting, 
 WASD controls, and more intuitive, physics-based puzzles. The game brings a lot of tried and true 
 gameplay mechanics found in games like Half-Life 2 to the tired old adventure genre. If this game 
 were a first-person shooter, it might be considered outdated, but as its own variety of game, it 
 feels like something new. Almost every object in the environment can be picked up, moved, thrown, 
 or manipulated. Many of them are just extras, but some of them are needed to solve problems. You 
 may need to pick up a rock and throw it to break glass. Or, you may need to stack boxes to reach 
 a high point. You can manipulate items by gripping them with the left mouse button and then dragging 
 the mouse. Grip a drawer and pull the mouse back to open it. Grip a valve and move the mouse in 
 a circle to turn it. Move the mouse back and forth to swing a hammer. The puzzles are moderately 
 challenging, and satisfying because they are so intuitive. Both chapters in the series do a great 
 job of making puzzles solveable without spoonfeeding every solution to you. Some of the puzzles 
 are rehashed from first person shooters (once again, like Half-Life 2) , but for some reason, this 
 new environment gives them fresh life.
  
  Control problems truly manifest themselves with the game's terrible combat, which is outrageously 
 hard and never fun. Simply swinging a weapon back and forth is ridiculously clunky. Hands down, 
 Penumbra: Overture has the worst combat controls that I have ever experienced. Many areas are patrolled 
 by rabid dogs, and other areas are infested with annoying packs of giant spiders. On the middle 
 difficulty level, you can only take a few hits before you die, and these enemies will always gang 
 up on them if they can. When you try to swing a weapon at them, the game fails to register a swing 
 at least half the time. The control is simply broken, and if you try to engage in a lot of combat, 
 you will fail miserably because of it.
  
  You are supposed to avoid combat by using stealth. This option has mixed results. The game requires 
 backtracking through hub areas numerous times to find items and complete tasks. Having to sneak 
 past the same dog five times gets old fast. This is especially true since stealth isn't very effective. 
 Enemies will walk past you if you are crouched, in the dark, and standing still, and if they haven't 
 noticed you yet. But if they walk into you, or if they see you before you hide, then you either 
 have to run away to the nearest level transition, or you have to fight with the game's awful combat 
 controls. Neither solution is much fun. "Overture" has a lot of rabid dogs to hide from and a lot 
 of annoying spiders to run away from. The problems here really bring the game down. Fortunately, 
 the second chapter, "Penumbra", is a lot better in this area.
  
  Although they are not cutting edge, the visuals in Penumbra's two chapters are mildly impressive, 
 for an adventure title. I would place the graphics about on par with a high end game from 2004. 
 The lighting and texture work is pretty good, but the game doesn't make much use of shaders. The 
 artwork is as adequate, but not spectacular. For the most part, the graphics do a fine job of communicating 
 the dirtiness, the nastiness, and the danger of you environments while telling the story, and that 
 is as much as you can ask. The audio for the game shines while providing much of the atmosphere 
 that you would hope for in a horror game. You constantly hear creaks, wind blowing, maybe a distant 
 growl of a dog, or whispers that sound like they are right next to you. Penumbra is never lacking 
 in atmosphere. It is one of the creepiest games of the past few years.
  
  Penumbra: Overture came out last year, and, as promised, the sequel came out last month to complete 
 this short series. Overture has some very frustrating moments, but it is definitely worth playing. 
 The unique gameplay, the atmosphere, and the story are enough to make the annoying hide-and-seek 
 sessions with dogs and spiders tolerable. As soon as you finish this episode, you can go out and 
 buy Penumbra: Black Plague, which is even better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _iMMuNiTy_
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 15, 2008 1:12 pm PT
Review:  "The umbra (Latin: "shadow") is the darkest part of a shadow. From within the umbra, the source 
 of light is completely blocked by the object causing the shadow. This contrasts with the penumbra, 
 where the light source is only partially blocked and there is only a partial shadow." - Wikipedia
 
  
  "Overture
  n
  - orchestral music played at the beginning of an opera or oratorio;
  - something that serves as a preceding event or introduces what follows." - definr. com
  
  A 
 fitting name for the first instalment of an episodic horror game, isn't it? No cheap puns, no "l33t" 
 letters and no worn out, trite phrases. Subtle, yet straight to the point. Just like the game itself.
 
  
  Penumbra: Overture starts with a man named Philip writing a letter to you. Apparently, he tried 
 to achieve something, but, through numerous mistakes, failed. He is now asking you to do what he 
 intended, and speaks of his story so that you wouldn't make the same mistakes he did.
  
  You relive Philip's memories by playing as him. After the loss of his mother, his father, who had 
 abandoned the two, suddenly contacts Philip and tells him to retrieve documents belonging to him 
 (Philip's father) which must be destroyed. Of course, Philip decides to look in them instead of 
 destroying them.
  
  His findings lead him to Greenland, where he is caught unprepared by the cold, and is eventually 
 driven by it into an abandoned mine, which traps him inside as soon as he enters it. Philip soon 
 realises that it's best to move forward, instead of staying put and hoping Lady Luck smiles to 
 him.
  
  This is where I stop writing about the story and (finally) start describing how the game plays. 
 The game is played from the first person perspective, and the pace of the game is fairly slow (you 
 can sprint, yes, though that is inadvisable) . This is emphasised by how you interact with your 
 environment.
  
  Forget about pressing 'E' or 'F' and letting the game do everything for you. In Penumbra: Overture, 
 you interact with the world by pressing and holding your left mouse button and then move your mouse, 
 mimicking a real life movement required to interact with a specific object. For example, if you 
 want to open the door, you click on the whereabouts of the handle and push forward. The harder 
 you push, the faster the door will open... and the more likely it is to be pushed back and close 
 again because of the momentum. You can also open the door by clicking on the centre of the door, 
 but it'll open slower.
  
  This is how you carry lighter items, push/pull heavier ones, open doors, pull levers, turn valves, 
 swing your weapon and more. The exception is pushing buttons, of course. It's disappointing that 
 you can't throw buttons around, but you can't have everything, eh?
  
  This system is fairly intuitive and adds a lot of depth to the game. Unless you've held a Wii controller 
 in your hand, the first few levels in Penumbra: Overture are going to be really awkward, in a good 
 way. It feels like staring at one of those optical illusions for too long.
  
  On the other hand, the downfall of this system is that it works good for the 'adventure' part of 
 an action adventure game, but not the 'action' part. Naturally, it takes you longer to interact 
 with an object in the world, and there are times in the game when you must act quickly. An example 
 would be combat - your enemies are fairly quick, while it takes a bit of time to swing your weapon 
 (a rusty hammer, for example) . You may also inadvertently aim elsewhere by moving the mouse before 
 clicking the button, like me, and miss the enemy by a margin.
  
  Speaking of combat, the fact that hits don't count when the enemy is knocked down is no less frustrating 
 than the ineffective attack method. Not to mention that larger enemies have the tendency to push 
 you away when they get up, and you must readjust your aim. Good luck with doing that before the 
 baddie runs away (and calls in 'reinforcements') . I won't even mention how pointless it is to hit 
 smaller creatures. My advice - run past those.
  
  Luckily enough, you'll often deal with enemies indirectly or simply avoid them by sneaking past 
 the critters. Stealth in Penumbra: Overture is very similar to that found in Chronicles of Riddick: 
 Escape from Butcher's Bay - you avoid any and all light sources and crouch down. The edge of your 
 screen turns blueish. At this point, you become harder to see, but you're still visible. If you 
 stay still long enough, which is a few seconds, you'll become hidden - your field of view will 
 increase in width, and you'll see better in the dark (through the blue tint) . Don't look at enemies 
 for too long, though - you'll begin to panic and you may reveal yourself.
  
  Speaking of enemies, most of the enemies you face are common animals, but with a monstrous twist. 
 If you have no problems with zombie dogs with glowing eyes or oversized spiders, you should be 
 safe.
  
  The enemies don't pose as big a challenge as the environment itself does, though. As Penumbra is 
 an action adventure game, you'll find a fair amount of puzzles, some of which are connected (e. g. 
 complete this puzzle to solve the other one) . The puzzles make sense, they're not too difficult, 
 but not too easy, either. The best thing about them is how they differ from one another - you'll 
 rarely find yourself solving identical puzzles.
  
  However, progression contains a pattern. There's always a large area, with two things - enemies 
 and smaller rooms, free of enemies, and usually containing a save point (quick notice - while you 
 can't save manually, the saving system is very well placed) , and items required to solve a puzzle. 
 Once you complete all the puzzles in the large area, you enter another large area with enemies 
 and smaller rooms, free of enemies, and usually containing a save point. It's somewhat disappointing, 
 when the levels aren't all that repetitive. Come on, it's a mine, what do you expect, royal suites?
 
  
  Now, I'm sure you want to know how scary the game is, but I'm afraid that it's pretty subjective, 
 my friend. I think the atmosphere is definitely eerie, and alien sounds that plague the long-abandoned 
 mine ought to leave most of the players tense and - perhaps - even at the edge of their seats. 
 I've noticed that developers usually (try to) create fear by making the player guess what is next.
 
  
  Various notes, logs, reports and documents of other sort also help fortify the creepy atmosphere 
 dominating in the stone corridors of the mine. For example, you may read about a terrifying event, 
 only to experience it yourself later.
  
  Finally, dialogue. Its level of brilliance equals to dialogue found in Valve's games. Philip almost 
 doesn't talk at all throughout the game, but he encounters someone who is quite chatty. And insane. 
 Don't worry, the developers have pulled it off quite well. Both the writing and quality of voice 
 acting is amazing.
  
  All three of these things help create a highly believable world. A world, in shadows of which hides 
 despair and... something that drove the former occupants off. And you were unfortunate enough to 
 be chosen by Fate to find out what that something is.
  
  If you're looking for more than just fun in a game, if you want a break from absurd shoot-outs, 
 ridiculous stunts or colossal explosions, and want to delve into a claustrophobic world of mystery 
 buried deep under solid rock, that has become a grave of many men, then Penumbra is the game for 
 you. Although it is bogged down by hard-to-ignore gameplay problems such as iffy combat and repetitive 
 progression, Penumbra: Overture is still a highly enjoyable game.
  
  The second and last episode, Penumbra: Black Plague, is already out, so you need not worry about 
 the game's length. Hope you'll enjoy your ride. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ping5000
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 9, 2008 5:35 pm PT
Review:  Penumbra: Overture represents indie developer, Frictional Games, first major release and it's largely 
 a successful one. A smart blend of physics, logical puzzles and tense atmosphere makes Overture 
 a game that's distinct and memorable in every regard. Overture definitely has problems, but its 
 strengths outweigh its weaknesses quite handily.
  
  Overture is set in the real world in the year 2000, and you take on the role of Phillip  a largely 
 forgettable character, who receives a letter from his father, Howard. The thing is he's been dead 
 for three decades. Howard urges you to burn and forget everything he has written through the letter, 
 but supposedly human curiosity gets the better of you and the clues and hints gathered in the hasty 
 intro sequence leads you to a freezing blizzard in Greenland. The premise is flimsy and the narrative 
 in general isn't very compelling, but once you find your way into the underground mines, it's easy 
 to forgive and forget.
  
  Practically the entire game takes place underground. It's dark, abandoned and human-like gibberish 
 tends to echo throughout the tunnels. From the get-go the tension crawls under your skin. Overture 
 preys on the fears of the unknown. Rooms are littered with papers, old journal entries are filled 
 with dread and smears of blood paste the floors. This minimalist style lets your imagine run wild, 
 and is far more effective than a steroid-infused demon monster.
  
  What makes it all the more nail-biting is how you interact with the world around you. For example, 
 doors don't open with just a push of a button, you have to click on the door and pull back with 
 the mouse. It's this level of interactivity that makes the world tangible and adds to the immersion. 
 This sort of interactivity is prevalent throughout the entire game. When you use a pick axe or 
 hammer, you have to act out the motion of actually swinging the tool with the mouse. This works 
 well for the most part, but the camera locks into place when you're about to swing, which can screw 
 things up when you're thrust into a combat situation.
  
  Yes, combat. Once your main adversary appears, zombie-ish dogs, you do have the ability sneak past 
 them. Much like Chronicles of Riddick, a blue tint overlays the screen, telling you that you're 
 well-hidden. Even when you're hidden, you can't stare directly at the dogs. If you do for a short 
 period of time, you'll automatically stand up, giving away your position. This is about the closest 
 thing a game has gotten at creating a fight-or-flight response, and it works wonderfully.
  
  If you choose to fight, combat sucks. Once the camera locks on when you're about to swing, 
 it makes things pretty hopeless because the dogs are anything but stationary. The dogs are a major 
 threat initially, but their AI is easily exploited when you jump on a crate or anywhere that gives 
 you a higher vantage point. Their lunge attacks don't seem to reach you, so you can smack them 
 around. They become a nuisance instead of the terrifying threat they were in the beginning. And 
 that's a shame, because they're the major enemy in the entire game.
  
  However, Overture is ultimately an adventure game played in a first-person perspective. You'll 
 gather notes, examine objects and solve puzzles for most of the game. The puzzles are logical and 
 make sense in the context of the game. You're not going to combine a chair and flare to make some 
 rocket chair to reach higher ground. No, instead, utilizing the environment will yield success. 
 Stacking crates on top of each other, creating make-shift bridges and generally using common sense 
 will equal progress. If you happen to get stuck, there's help. A man named Red will eventually 
 contact you via radio. He's been in the mines much longer than you could imagine, and his lack 
 of any real human contact in awhile has made his vernacular quite obtuse. He can get irritating, 
 but he's ultimately a helpful friend and should at least keep you company when the creepiness starts 
 crawling in again.
  
  As refreshing and distinct Overture is, it has glaring issues. It starts to feel very monotonous 
 and sometimes flat-out boring around the middle stretch of the game. There are extremely heart-pounding 
 moments interspersed throughout the middle stretches that try to revive the initially terrifyingly 
 good atmosphere, but it fizzles out for the most part. Fortunately, Overture racks up the fear 
 and tension to impressive levels towards the end of the game. The end sequence in particular should 
 go down as one of the scariest moments in video game history.
  
  The graphics for the most part, give a helping hand in the atmosphere. The environments look abandoned 
 and decayed, and the impressive lighting and shadows do set an ominous mood. The graphics do have 
 its warts; the texture work is generally shoddy and the dogs don't look good or animate well. Frictional 
 tries to hide the graphical blemishes by making Overture perpetually dark, and it does effectively 
 hide many of its problems. What can't be hidden is the environments are generally boring to look 
 at. It can't really be helped, considering shades of grey are the only palettes that can be used 
 to create a mining facility, but the levels are nevertheless uninspired.
  
  The audio, on the other hand, is brilliant. The voice work is average, but the sound effects, ambient 
 sounds and music gel into a wonderful aural experience. The subtle creaks of door hinges, the occasionally 
 tension-building ambient noise off in the distance and the atmospheric music adds to the game immensely. 
 The audio is easily the most impressive technical aspect about Overture.
  
  Overture is very short, 5-6 hours. The benefit of that is the middle stretch isn't terribly long 
 by any means, so in a way, Overture benefits from its short runtime. There really isn't much of 
 an incentive to play it all over again. Once you finish the game, that's it, but it's an undeniably 
 entertaining experience. It has a couple missteps, but Frictional's first game is a fun game on 
 all fronts, and second (and final) installment can't come soon enough. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HenriH-42
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 24, 2008 7:02 pm PT
Review:  Penumbra: Overture is easily one of my favorite games of 2007. But it didn't even get to Gamespot's 
 GOTY. Oh well, I guess they were too busy playing their mindless Doom clones.
  
  Gameplay: 7/10
  - Well, the combat isn't easy, and it's sometimes even frustrating. But really, 
 if you play this game correctly you shouldn't even need to use weapons. Well at least not all of 
 the time. Sneaking around is feels very cool, almost Thief-like. Puzzles are good and not too hard.
 
  
  Atmosphere & Immersion: 10/10
  - Penumbra wins here. The game is easily one of the creepiest, atmospheric games that I have ever 
 played. You *need* to play this at night, alone, lights off, with headphones. Preferably with a 
 CRT monitor since LCD monitors all have very poor black. I guarantee, you will be scared. Unless 
 you watch horror movies alone at night and don't feel at least a bit scared.
  
  Graphics: 8.5/10
  - They do their job really well. And considering that this was made by a very 
 small developer team, they are impressive. I think that the noise filter effect could be better, 
 more like what's in Manhunt 1.
  
  Sound: 9.5/10
  - The ambient sounds are one of the best I have ever heard in any game. Without them, the game 
 wouldn't be scary. So big respect to the guy who made them. The other sounds are, well, ok. If 
 they would've been a bit better, I would've given it a 10. But, 9.5 it is.
  
  Physics: 8/10
  - They work very well, most of the time. Some of them are very impressive. But 
 since Endorphin/Euphoria and Digital Molecular Matter used in some 2008 games, I just can't give 
 a 10 or 9.
  
  Replay value: 3.5/10
  - The game is quite linear and there isn't almost any replay value at all, since you already know 
 what's going to happen when. The game is also quite short, so if there's one bad thing about Penumbra 
 this is it.
  
  Value for money: 9/10
  - The game costs 30  unlike most games, and I think I'd happily pay 50  for it.
  
  Bugs, 
 Stability & Performance: 9/10
  - I didn't find any bugs at all, no crashes whatsoever. Only bad thing is that it can lag badly 
 in some places for unknown reasons, since my PC is quite high end.
  
  Will this game be remembered by old school gamers as a classic after 10 years?:
  - I really wish 
 it would be, but unfortunately almost no-one knows about this wonderful game. I know that I will 
 remember this game for a long time.
  
  Who would I recommend to buy the game?:
  - Fans of Thief -series. Fans of horror games & movies. People who like to think a lot in a game 
 and don't mind sneaking in darkness and waiting around. Oh, and: shooter fans, just go away.
  
  Final score (not necessarily an average) : 9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dark_being
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 19, 2008 7:28 am PT
Review:  There aren't a lot of scary games out there. Yes, there are quite a few horror games, but most 
 of them just throw tons of enemies at you, hoping to make you jump out of your seat every time 
 one of them breaks through a window or something.
  "Penumbra: Overture" is just the opposite. You will not be overrun by massive numbers of enemies, 
 neither will you find yourself jumping out of your seat. Instead the game surrounds you with dark, 
 abandoned corridors and even darker atmosphere.
  
  Atmosphere is the keyword when writing about "Penumbra: Overture". Every step in the desolate mine 
 complex could be the last, or so it would feel after an hour or two.
  The protagonist, Philip, arrives at Greenland after following a series of clues left by his supposedly 
 dead father. After being lost in a snow storm, Philip finds an abandoned mine shaft and decides 
 to seek refuge from the storm. Unfortunately, the mine's entrance collapses behind him and he is 
 forced to continue deeper and deeper into the mines.
  The entire game takes place inside the mines, which are not so abandoned as originally thought. 
 Wolves, spiders and giant rock-worms inhabit this strange underground ecosystem. As Philip explores 
 the mines, he soon finds clues as to what happened down there, and why there isn't anyone left, 
 except a cabin-fever crazed man named Red, who keeps spewing disturbing and almost poetic clues 
 via a radio transmitter.
  
  Lets talk gameplay. The game has a truly unique physics-based engine. Philip can pick up and throw 
 just about anything, and even the combat is based on the game's strong physics; Philip must rely 
 on melee weapons, (for there are no firearms in "Penumbra: Overture") , such as pickaxe, to fight 
 off the wolves or spiders he encounters. The mouse controls the speed and direction he swings his 
 weapon in real time, a mechanism that turns the combat to a real intense situation. Except for 
 combat, the mouse also controls every other action in the game, from opening doors and drawers 
 to turning valves and moving furniture around. This feature really contributes to the atmosphere 
 and to the overall mood of the game.
  But combat is rare in "Penumbra: Overture", and Philip must use stealth and the objects around 
 him to avoid confrontation at all cost. Enemies are stronger, faster and can take more punishment 
 than Philip, so at a very early stage, the game suggests to try and sneak around enemies rather 
 than engage in combat. Other than that, "Penumbra: Overture" plays as a first person adventure 
 game. Most of the time (when you're not sneaking around) you are searching for items and try to 
 solve a lot of environmental puzzles - blowing up a cave wall, operating heavy machinery and mixing 
 chemicals are just a few examples.
  
  The graphics are probably the weakest part of "Penumbra: Overture". For a game released in 2007, 
 the game looks pretty simple. The environments are empty and the textures are nothing special. 
 The models of the enemies are repetitive (all wolves and spiders look alike) and boring. There 
 is hardly any eye-candies in this game. The frozen underground lake is the prettiest level in the 
 entire game and that just because the smart use of lighting and colour.
  
  The sound design is the exact opposite of the graphics. The background music, although a bit on 
 the repetitive side, can turn you into a nervous wreck in no time. The voice acting is top-notch 
 (the only human voice you hear in the entire game is Red, but the actor has done a great job) . 
 One of the eeriest sounds in the game is the sound the spiders make when they move; it really makes 
 the skin crawl.
  
  The one big flaw of "Penumbra: Overture" is that it tends to get boring after a while. All the 
 sneaking around and the constant anxiety can really wear you down, and this does not change as 
 you progress through the game. From the moment you encounter your first wolf, all you do is sneak 
 around the levels, hoping not to get spotted. Since you can't save at will, and must search for 
 save points (a small orange artifact) , or rely on autosaves, which means the game gets tedious 
 pretty fast. If you can force yourself through those rough patches, you can easily enjoy "Penumbra: 
 Overture" for what it is - a neat survival horror adventure with a story that can chill your blood. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ratix2
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 6, 2008 1:58 am PT
Review:  Penumbra: overture is an adventure game. Its NOT an action game, your not Rambo, and combat is 
 not the forefront of the game, in fact just the opposite, everything the game does, and even the 
 characters personal thoughts (which are the games equivlant of telling you how to do things) makes 
 clear that combat is better avoided at all costs. 
  
  The biggest (and probably only) complaint i can level aganist the game IS its combat, which, due 
 mostly it the games control scheme, is clunky, difficult and fustrating. As the game progresses 
 however, it does become less of a problem, but it could still use a bit of work none the less. 
 However, if there is one good thing about the combat its that it is just another way the game encourages 
 stealth and the avoidance of fights. Thankfully though, fights arent TOO difficult to avoid, and 
 even when you do get into them your not likely to be fighting more than that single enemy at a 
 time.
  
  As I mentioned though, the combat is clunky due to the control scheme (which in the title i called 
 reminicent of a Wii game) . Ive heard before that only a Wii game could give the kind of interaction 
 that could be considered TRULY immersive, ive even sung those praises about the system myself. 
 But one of the first things that Penumbra does after beginning the game is take those beliefs (should 
 you hold them) and smash them just as you are to smash the ice building up around a hatch leading 
 underground. Penumbra includes what is easily one of the most immersive control schemes found in 
 a non-Wii game, and even one of them most immersive for most Wii games.
  
  I apolgise for that off topic paragraph, but i needed to make a point. The controls in Penumbra 
 work like this: take a door for instance. No different from doors in otehr games, you go up to 
 it and press a button to open it. However, you dont press E or F or some other key and the door 
 doesent suddenly open. To open the door you press and hold the left mouse button (by default) and 
 then proceed to push the mouse foward, or pull it backwards (depending on which way the door opens) 
 and either push or pull it open like you would a real door. The same philosophy works for simlar 
 things in the game, for example desk drawers, cabinets, mine carts, barrels, boxes, ladders, planks 
 of wood, etc. With Penumbra, you dont just press a button, you hold one and then move the mouse 
 so that the object (s) move in a way that they would if you were actually moving them yourself. 
 This makes for some very innovative puzzles, such as jamming a steel pipe in a door to pry it open, 
 or even having to move the mouse around in a circular pattern to turn a valve. Another good thing 
 the game does with control scheme is the fact that the cursor isnt tied to the center of the screen, 
 but rather by pressing the R key by defauly, it "unhooks" the cursor from the center and allows 
 you to more easily perform movements such as turning a valve or opening doors.
  
  The combat works similary. To swing your weapon (there are no guns, only close quarters meele weapons, 
 and even they arent truly weapons but hammers, pick axes and brooms among other things) you move 
 the mouse to the left or the right (depending on perference) and then move it in the opposite direction 
 to swing it back the other way, thus making a swinging motion as you would in real life, or pulling 
 the mouse back and then thrusting it foward to jab it foward.
  
  The game also doesent hold your hand either, there are very few times when the game will tell you 
 exactly how to figure something out, and even in those times its the characters thoughts to himself 
 and even they can be quite vague. There are some puzzles that take some thinking to figure out, 
 such as one where you pick up a CB Radio and a paper with morse code instructions on it, only moments 
 later to hear morse code being transmitted over the radio, after which you are required to listen 
 to the beeps and decipher for yourself what the code to a nearby locked gate is.
  
  Enough about the game mechanics though, and on to the story and more importantly, the atmosphere. 
 Penumbras story isnt as deep or fleshed out as other games, but for the story elemnts it contains 
 its quite good. Its reminicent of the orginal Resident Evil actually. The story starts off by a 
 short exposition by the main character Phillip, and herein is told mostly though old papers (diary 
 entries, reports of various kinds, etc.) that have been left in the game area over the years (and 
 the many years I might add, some even going back to before World War II) . Not only do these logs 
 serve to tell you whats going on, but to give some back story as to the mine your exploring itself, 
 and a very creepy backstory at that. There is also one other charcter in the game, Red, a man who, 
 through circumstances that are revealed at the end of the game, has quite apparently lost some 
 of his marbles to say the least, and is definitly a "character" by anyones standards. He guides 
 you though some areas as well as giving some backstory, but he doesent pop in until about a third 
 of the way though the game and is not alwasy speaking. The story is not completed however, and 
 ends quite abruptly (alogugh not completly unexpecetedly) , however since Penumbra is intened as 
 an episodic game, this is not suprising or unexpected.
  
  Now on to the area where Penumbra excels past almost every other game. Penumbra is, in my opinion 
 and experience, the SCARIEST game ever released. It relies little on monsters jumping out of you 
 (of which there is only really one such scene) and more on the dark corridors, sounds both off 
 in the distance and your characters own breathing and heartbeats, lighting (or rather lackthereof) , 
 and the wonderful way in which the game creates within you the player a large sense of both isolation 
 and desolation, as well as pure hopelesness at times to frighten and terrify the player on a subconcious 
 level. The atmosphere the game creates is difficult to describe, espially for people like me who 
 are bad with words, but it makes for a wonderfully creepy experience the way everything comes together.
 
  
  Overall, i highly recommend the game. It can be had for a meager $20 on the developers website 
 and for the quality of the game its well worth it in my opinion. To go aganist what I said earlier 
 about the combat being the only flaw with the game, I apolgise for lying, but there is only one 
 more, the length. I spent about 6 hours on my first play though, only to want more out of the game. 
 However, in the games defense, its definitly one that you can immedatly go back and play through 
 a second time and still get a wonderful experience out of, even as good as the first playthough, 
 and the knowledge that the second (and unfortuanetly, final) part of the game is due out in only 
 a few short weeks, as well as the short length making sure the game doesent overstay its welcome 
 (alough the further it gets toward the end the more you cant wait for more) , the short length is 
 more than bearable. In summation, Penumbra: Overture is a wonderful adventure game that will have 
 you hooked from beginning to end, and very eagrly awaiting the second half, and very much wanting 
 the developer to continue the series here on out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: p00pz
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 14, 2007 9:45 pm PT
Review:  Combat was a bit flaky but was not intended to be the shining point, could have used a bit more 
 polishing. The player really gets the feeling of being alone and appreciates how fragile life is 
 because at any given moment something can kill you. Loved the puzzles though! thinking in a game 
 is a refreshing treat! reading manuals on starting up a 50 year old generator, concocting TNT and 
 other fun stuff. Some scenes bring nostalgia of original Half Life. Don't miss the crowbar easter 
 egg ;-)
  
  I'm not going to say much in this review because the game wasn't very long. The devs made this 
 game on a shoestring budget, but managed to make a very interesting story mix in with action/adventure 
 game play. Kudos to the dev team and I hope to see more games like this! 9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: madskongen
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 29, 2007 3:25 pm PT
Review:  Penumbra Overture Episode one.
  
  I'll keep it short and simple. Graphics: Pretty decent looking graphics, Very dark and creepy, 
 nicely blended into the surroundings.
  
  Gameplay: Gameplay is pretty straightforward, with minor puzzles, and things you have to figure 
 out, like making a machine work, or blowing up a wall, However the combat system is pretty awkward 
 i could barely kill the enemies when i first started but after you get the hang of it sort of works 
 alright
  
  Sound: The sound could be more intensified and added some creepy music, but otherwise it works 
 out.
  
  Final Thoughts: Its a good game, bit on the short side but, beeing budget release its well made 
 and does the job of scaring you if you set the mood right, Check it out if you like. 7.5 Score 
 from me! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: genmonkey
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jun 12, 2007 4:06 pm PT
Review:  For anybody worrying about the state of indie gaming, they'd do well to take a look at some of 
 the success stories from the last few years and think again. From the success of Narbacular Drop 
 (Portal) to the Behemoth Team (Alien Hominid) , along with the continued growth of Xbox Live Arcade; 
 it seems that there is still space for games of this nature, and for small teams to gain a foothold 
 in the entertainment industry that we all love. Penumbra Overture fits neatly into this scope, 
 offering an independently developed and unique experience quite unlike most commercially funded 
 projects, and harking back to the (some would consider) better days of PC gaming.
  
  Released onto the Internet in 2006 as a free download, the original Penumbra quickly developed 
 a vast quantity of praise for its creepy and interesting atmosphere. This in turn spurred the small 
 development team to continue work on the project and reach the ultimate goal of a commercial release. 
 Overture is the first in a series of PC games from the same team, all based around the same universe 
 and with a persistent storyline spanning across multiple episodic releases. I can only hope that 
 the series catches the imagination of PC gamers, as this is one title that I'd like to see the 
 conclusion of. For those of us burned by the Shenmue debacle, you'll know exactly what I mean.
 
  
  Your role in the Penumbra Universe is limited to playing a rather generic English protagonist (with 
 some pretty bad voice acting) , out to find out the meaning of a message left to you by your long-lost 
 father. Soon enough your path takes you on a boat to Greenland, and following on from a brief on-board 
 tutorial and introduction to the physics system, you'll be breaking locks in the snowy wastes and 
 descending into the depths of a long-forgotten mine and research base. It's all very The Thing, 
 and the introduction of some fairly rabid dogs early in the proceedings supports that particular 
 notion.
  
  The back-story soon blends into the surroundings however and becomes fairly inconsequential, and 
 the rather generic setting and premise is testament to that. For once however, the story can suitably 
 and understandably take a more limited role, as it becomes clear that the developers have focussed 
 extensively on atmosphere alone; surprisingly that turns out to be a good decision.
  
  Penumbra plays out from a first-person perspective, and as such the initial reaction from most 
 players will be to fall into the trappings of a first-person shooter, searching for weapons and 
 expecting conflict from the start. However, without providing any form of standard weaponry, the 
 game constantly plays on a sense of vulnerability and survival from the very outlook, and doesn't 
 let up. There are no general prompts towards any violent acts, and the main protagonist is often 
 forced to run and hide rather than attempting to bludgeon any of the creepy inhabitants of the 
 mine with a nearby object, or trusty hammer.
  
  Of course if push comes to shove you can swing any of the heavy objects at your disposal in the 
 general direction of somebody that wishes to cause you harm, and deal a decent amount of damage, 
 but that choice is always a last resort. It's a refreshing change of pace to be playing a game 
 from this perspective and not have destruction and extreme violence as the primary gameplay trigger, 
 and kudos to the developers for attempting such a bold decision. Whether or not that converts into 
 sales from a crowd usually hooked on Half-life and Counter-Strike is another matter.
  
  A game based solely on running away from things (S. O. S?) and hiding wouldn't be a particularly 
 decent spectacle though, and thankfully Penumbra contains enough adventuring and well-balanced 
 logic puzzles to tie the experience together.
  
  The core gameplay puzzling and adventuring revolves around a suitably robust physics engine. All 
 of the in-game actions usually left to a single button press have been reworked in Penumbra to 
 take advantage of this system, and the environment is lent a nice real-world consistency as a result. 
 Opening a door, for example, requires the user to grab the handle with the mouse button and then 
 drag outwards as if moving the door yourself. Interactions with drawers, boxes, and other objects 
 are all handled similarly, with the puzzles incorporating this as a central facet. This can lend 
 the game a similar tone to certain sections in the eponymous Half-Life 2, which is undeniably good 
 company to be in.
  
  The only charge that can really be brought against the game lies within the the aesthetics of the 
 environment. Whilst great lengths have been taken to ensure a dark and creepy atmosphere (and largely 
 succeed) , this can be let down by some extremely primitive character models and animation. It's 
 all good being scared by the sound of a wolf creeping around the corner, but to then be taken out 
 of the moment as the same animal slides past as if on rails is a little jarring to say the least. 
 The fact that the same wolf then stands motionless as you attack it with a rock is the final blow; 
 but providing you can overlook such instances the game does a superb job of evoking the fear and 
 primitive instincts that surviving in such an environment would entail.
  
  Overture manages to strike out on its own path and create a unique experience that, whilst not 
 perfect, is worthy of a look for anybody interested in the adventure or horror genres. Creeping 
 around in the dark with only a flashlight to hand whilst the wind whistles through a passageway 
 and footsteps can be heard around every corner can be extremely disconcerting, and it's a testament 
 to good game design that it manages to unsettle right from the start. Big-name horror titles such 
 as Resident Evil and F. E. A. R can certainly learn from some of the things that Penumbra gets right, 
 and just goes to prove that getting back to basics can shine the light for progress.
  
  Note: This text was originally written by myself and published over at boomtown. net 
::::::

::::::
UserName: runarjenssen
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 6, 2007 11:07 pm PT
Review:  It's easy to sum up the first episode of Penumbra Overture in one word: SCARY! That's right. The 
 game is scary as hell. This first episode (hopefully in a long-running series) is pretty short, 
 but you'll already here stumble across a good amount of creatures and scenarios. If you thought 
 FEAR and DOOM 3 was too scary for you, I think it's safe to say that Penumbra is definitely NOT 
 your bag of chips. I personally found FEAR a wee bit creepy at times, but nothing compared to this.
 
  By the end of the episode, you'll be dying to try the next, as it ends in a cliffhanger-manner 
 that works perfectly. Of course, that is if you've dared to continue on after the first rendezvous 
 with one of the ugly creatures you'll be facing.
  
  The game can feel a bit "enclosed", a bit narrow as you always find yourself running around the 
 same kinds of tunnels most of the game. However, the great atmosphere of the game will make sure 
 you rarely think of the bad sides to the game. You just want to stay alive. Penumbra is shortly 
 described this way: You'll be running around picking up notes, evading (or killing, if you please) 
 nasty creatures, and solving puzzles to get to the next location - for a reason that is far from 
 apparent (at least from the beginning) . Sounds familiar? Well, the story of the game, initially, 
 isn't really so original, but you'll come across some new pieces of the story later, that reveal 
 that not everything is as it should (well nothing is) , and at the same time, there's no great Alien/Nazi-leader 
 who wants to destroy our beloved Tellus or anything. The story is, like in Half-Life, quite subtle 
 from the start. You enter the world with only a few clues, and as time goes by, the story wraps 
 around you more and more.
  
  The game's visuals are very good. Some might say that the graphics are a bit dated, but I can't 
 really see that. Sure, it's not Crysis, but it's more than what you need for such a game.
  The sound do the game justice, to say the least. You've got a creepy soundtrack running in the 
 background, and the sound-effects themselves are just as unfriendly.
  
  Two main factors that separates this game from the masses, are the highly innovative controls, 
 and the interface. You play the game with a first-person perspective. However, there is no HUD. 
 All you have to guide you with, are the effects shown when you are hidden or take damage (much 
 like in Chronicles of Riddick) . Also, the controls are really cool (but you have to get used to 
 them) . For example, you don't open a door with the E-button or F-button or whatever. You do it 
 by walking up to the door, holding down the left mouse button, and dragging your mouse in one or 
 another direction. That way, you slowly open or close doors. The same goes for levers, drawers, 
 chests... and the combat system.
  To use a melee-weapon, you hold down the left mouse button, drag the mouse to the left or right 
 to get a charge, and then pull the mouse fast back to it's original position to swing the weapon. 
 Sometimes, this system can feel a bit annoying an unnecessary for some, since it's hard to control 
 the camera as you're swinging around with your weapon, and most enemies are smaller than you (so 
 you have to aim downwards as they close in) - but you'll get the hang of it eventually. When you 
 do get the hang of it, the satisfaction after a successful kill is worth the effort. For those 
 who never seem to get the hang of it, there's usually another way to get rid of enemies (either 
 by sneaking around or luring them into all sorts of deathtraps) .
  
  All in all, Penumbra Overture's first episode is an incredibly intriguing piece of game-history, 
 and everyone with the patience - and nerves - to complete it, will literally be thirsting for the 
 next episode. So, if you're a fan of the REALLY scary games, and perhaps want something a bit more 
 "point-and-click"-like than DOOM 3 and FEAR, you should definitely check out Penumbra, as it is 
 a great game, with LOTS of potential. I am dying to see how the developers have pulled the second 
 episode off, as the first episode ends in such a way that you know ANYTHING could happen next. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TandemSpoony
Rating: 7
Date: May 24, 2007 12:38 pm PT
Review:  It's got a ludicrous setup, but Penumbra Ep. 1 succeeds despite its shortcomings with low-key, 
 sensible puzzles, a grainy look, and excellent sound design. It's a fun design and an intriguing 
 story -- a short ride, but a fun one while it lasts.
  
  I would have liked a few more answers to this story. Naturally it all ends on a cliffhanger and 
 an absolutely amazing concluding visual, and in that regard the game is very effective. But most 
 of the time the narrator talks about the doom he's facing and how much he regrets coming to the 
 facility, but I haven't seen much to back that up. Oh, I'm still interested, but I wanted to be 
 let in on the secret a little earlier. Just a hint, y'know?
  
  Much of the items are a little superfluous. I only ever used the glowstick to light my way; the 
 flashlight was pathetic and provided worse light, and I never touched the flares. Dynamite was 
 unrealistically small in scale and likewise rarely used, and combat was a real chore. It's not 
 meant to be a focus, but overall the controls feel too sluggish, almost like you're moving underwater. 
 It feels like the game is drugged at times with its languorous physics. If you don't get an early 
 knockdown in the fights, you're basically finished with your slow turning speed.
  
  I'd still recommend it as one of the more effective horror games to hit the PC, regardless of these 
 faults. I've paid more for fewer hours' entertainment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Braxen
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 22, 2007 4:48 pm PT
Review:  First dip into the mine was among the creepiest I&acute; ve experienced in a computer game. Excellent 
 use of light (or lack thereof) , sounds and overall gameplay.
  
  Some might say that you feel a bit clumsy when you move. Yes you are not going to move around jumping 
 and turning at the same time delivering railgun shots. This is not that kind of game...
  
  Graphics: Nice job with textures, shadows and lighting, really creates a sort of spooky mood. Sounds: 
 Music really creates an atmosphere! Sound fx are good... they certainly do their job.
  
  Gameplay: Here&acute; s where the game shines. Being able to lift &amp; manipulate so many items 
 in the game, and requiring you to do so to solve puzzles and fight is just awesome! Really gets 
 you in the game.
  
  This is a budget title that I strongly recommend to anyone who is a bit tired of the hectic Doom3-kind 
 of game and is looking for a mindchallenge as well. Storyline is good, reaaally clever puzzles 
 etc. etc.
  
  Someone give the creators even more budget and make them create more games. This one leaves you 
 wanting more of the same. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GrizzlyJim
Rating: 4
Date: May 21, 2007 11:42 pm PT
Review:  I downloaded the Demo to see what kind of game this was. It's the type I hate. Yep. Sure enough. 
 Tried opening the hatch in the very beginning of the game and spent about a half hour pounding 
 it with a rock, watching it pop partially open and then falling shut again. Naturally, you can't 
 turn the wheel on the hatch to open it.... I finally gave up out of frustration... You can have 
 this game. I know I'd be pissed off and cussing out loud at the game within minutes... I tried 
 repeatedly in the ship's cabin to unlock the locker with the key. Finally, I got it open. Then 
 I stumbled outside and into the storm. I found a hatch, inexplicably amongst the rocks in a dead-end 
 and tried to open it. I pounded it with a rock and it came loose. But, I couldn't get the damned 
 thing to open. I bounced the rock on it several times and I could see it WAS open. But I couldn't 
 lift it. I bore easily when games do crap like that. I want to be able to interact with my environment. 
 GrizzlyJIm 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dryden555
Rating: 6.8
Date: May 21, 2007 1:21 pm PT
Review:  If you're a graphics addict or you only like simple action games then this isnt your kind of game. 
 Penumbra has an awkward but functional combat interface and it has some basic stealth elements 
 too. The 3d graphics are better than functional but certainly not up to the current state of graphics. 
 Basically, this is a story-driven adventure game. As an adventure game it is quite good, if a bit 
 short. There's genuinely successful story-telling going on here while you walk slowly through a 
 dark old delapidated mine. You read some text and you solve some puzzles. I'm generally not a fan 
 of episodic games, but this one gets strong marks as an adventure game and I'll be curious about 
 the next installment. The gamespot review quite rightly warns you to edit the game .ini file so 
 that you can save where ever you want. Why? The game doesnt warn you when it is auto saving so 
 you are never quite sure when you have a save to go back to or not. Since you can die in a heartbeat, 
 you will likely need to save at will. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andruxandd
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 14, 2007 2:20 am PT
Review:  A adventure game like never before... you play in first-person camera like Halflife or any game 
 FPS + point-and-click ! ... Is something strange here and this game give more pleasing. And not 
 about is a first-person interacting with point-and-click, it's about ability to manually manipulate 
 things like barrels, boxes, rocks or open doors and traps, manholes... with mouse and that amazing 
 physics engine. Good ideea!
  
  Great creepy game and as for the dogs with sparks-eyes... oh, my God!!! When I saw him coming... i 
 saw first dog coming to me and that yell before... i scare in that moment like never in my life 
 when play a game horror. But, i don't know if that game is a horror game... much more creepy and 
 darkly and inscrutable maybe and eerie...
  
  Good story and gameplay with more strange eventful! About combat and how to kill creatures are 
 many to say. Combat is little annoying... and to kill a infectious dog is a hard work. Run and up 
 to a box and crouch and hit with hammer about 5,6times and the dog will be dead. This battle-plan 
 will be little long and need more patinence to hit again and again and hit the dog and not the 
 air :)
  
  Graphics are good and so real with all things. Sounds are amazing and very creepy that make a great 
 atmosphere for a very frightfully game.
  
  Only one bad thing... too short! Very short! Bring on apace episode two! Play that game without 
 dubitation! Superb game and wait for second part! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DuaMn
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 9, 2007 3:56 am PT
Review:  Penumbra: Overture - Episode One is horror adventure game that played in first person camera angle. 
 It is mostly relies on the atmosphere. Places are mostly indoor. There is not much figthting. I 
 actually think this game looks like Silent Hill. The darkness and weird noises give creeps'. I 
 really do like this game because it is easy to understand and play.
  The only bad thing in this game, there are too many dogs that you have to stay away :) After some 
 time they makes you sick, but thats all. I suggest Penumbra to all horror game funs. They won't 
 regret it. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
