-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: People's General
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/peoplesgeneral/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep 22, 1998
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.8
Critic Score: 7.6, 10 Review (s)
User Score: 8.6, 53 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: SSI
Genre: Strategy
Date:     Aug 31, 1998

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
People's General represents the natural evolution of Panzer General II and the Living Battlefield 
 series. 

 It was bound to happen. SSI's tremendously successful General series of games, first with the Five-Star 
 series and then with the Living Battlefield series, has made the transition from World War II to 
 the modern era (ignoring for the moment Star General and Fantasy General, neither of which warrant 
 any more mention) with People's General. The game is set in the early 21st century, and the United 
 Nations is at war with an aggressive China for control of most of Eastern Asia. People's General 
 represents the natural evolution of Panzer General II and the Living Battlefield series, including 
 many new refinements, ideas, weapon systems, and a game engine that has made a fairly successful 
 transference to the modern era of warfare.  

 People's General and the previous games are typically labeled as "beer and pretzels" wargames; they 
 do not require a thorough knowledge base of military history and hardware, they are relatively 
 easy to play, and are typically pleasing to the eye. People's General is no different. Requiring 
 only a rudimentary knowledge of modern weapon systems (tanks, infantry, missile batteries, helicopters, 
 air strikes, and the like) , it can be played by basically anyone willing to give it a try. While 
 the maps are hex-based, they are hand-painted beautifully in 16-bit color. 3D models of various 
 vehicles and infantry depict individual units. Moving and attacking is a simple job of selecting 
 a unit, pointing to a hex within range, and clicking to move. When attacking, estimated battle 
 casualties, based the situation, are given, so you can somewhat accurately gauge if an attack will 
 yield decent results or not.   

 Players have a number of different options when running People's General: There are nine campaigns, 
 34 scenarios, two- to four-player LAN/Internet scenarios, and play-by-e-mail (PBEM) scenarios. 
 While four of the campaigns are actually different-length versions (with varying difficulty) of 
 the Eastern and Western theater campaigns, there are three other independent campaigns. You are 
 treated to a short video as the campaign starts and various status reports as the campaign continues. 
 As a plus, a scenario-creation editor is also included, though you'll have to use one of the pre-drawn 
 hand-painted maps to work with it.   

 If you've played the series before, you'll want to know what's new and different. Basically the 
 engine is the same but has been neatly tuned to the modern era. Helicopters now behave like aircraft 
 did earlier in the series (though they're much more powerful) , and you now have the option of using 
 air points to purchase air strikes, wild weasel and recon missions, defense air support, or the 
 ability to airlift troops. With increased air capacity comes air defense units, which can severely 
 hamper any air operation. Most units have the ability to attack across a number of hexes, and a 
 range of six to eight hexes for missile batteries is not uncommon. Units can remain completely 
 hidden from view or may be visible but labeled "unknown." Also, you can assign particular capabilities 
 to units instead of having to buy completely new units for a certain job. For instance, you can 
 purchase a river-ferrying kit for your M1A3 unit, via the time-honored prestige points system (which 
 is used to purchase, reequip, and resupply units in the game) , instead of having to pick up a specific 
 bridge-laying unit.   

 Of course there are a few problems. People's General requires DirectX 6.0, and there are some associated 
 video compatibility issues with some cards. The most notable crops up when accessing the strategic 
 overview map, showing only the upper left-hand corner of the map while turning the rest of it into 
 a scrambled mess. While the strategic map doesn't need to be consulted to play well, it sure helps 
 a lot (and saves time scrolling around) . The scenario and campaign briefings don't have voice-overs 
 anymore (unlike Panzer General II) , a bit of chrome that some may find disappointing.  

 While People's General may be considered a "light" wargame, it is by no means easy or bereft of 
 details. Units are rated for a dozen different capabilities as well as somewhat random special 
 abilities and leadership characteristics. Some of the campaigns are downright hard and nasty and 
 take a full understanding of the game system to do even moderately well. However, a tutorial and 
 numerous easier scenarios and campaigns ease you into the game without smacking you in the face 
 with a learning curve that looks like the north face of Mt. Everest. Fans of the series will not 
 be disappointed, and if the new and fairly unique subject material breathes new life into wargames 
 - even beer and pretzel ones - then that can't be half bad either.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (1 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: vinumohan
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 13, 2007 3:12 am PT
Review:  What will befall if China with the aid of North Korea is set upon conquering South East Asia? Will 
 America with the backing of the United Nations be able to defeat them or will the new axis powers 
 succeed? People's General (released in1999) , one of the games in the very popular general series 
 of Strategic Simulations Inc. puts you into the dilemma of World War III where you can play on 
 either sides leading them to victory. One of the best turn based, strategy games ever released 
 befitting to the general series, People's General gives you the chance, to have the perfect feel 
 of the difficulties of combat a General has to pass through in bringing his troops to victory.
 
  
  The game is excellently plotted. In the beginning of the 21st century, China growing as a super 
 power decides to reconquer traditional Chinese territories. America sends its seventh fleet and 
 main Asian force to resist the Chinese invasion of South East Asia and force them to turn back. 
 In response, China sinks the American career Abraham Lincoln, claiming it to be in Chinese territory. 
 Taken aback, American president presses the Congress to declare a state of war. With the United 
 Nations supporting the United States and North Korea aiding China, begins WORLD WAR III.
  
  In the main menu, there are four different modes. Scenario mode lets you play different scenarios, 
 the first being a tutorial. It will be best to begin by playing the tutorial so that with no time 
 you can learn the controls and other details. You will have the chance to play as China , US, Russia, 
 North Korea etc.. in different scenarios. The campaign mode lets you play different campaigns including 
 long and mini ones. In campaigns you can play as China and US. There is also one campaign where 
 playing as Vietnam you try to conquer South-East Asia. Multiplayer option lets you play with your 
 friends on a LAN or over the Internet. The fourth mode lets you play through email.
  
  As China the beginning will be easy. Activating Plan Red, China plans to conquer most of Asia and 
 become the strongest nation in the world and then force the United Nations to approve their triumph 
 and sign a peace treaty. In the initial three years you will suceed easily until The United States 
 comes into the picture with increased vigour. Then the game becomes more difficult. Within the 
 first three years the combined forces of US and UN suffers huge defeat at your hands and most of 
 Asia will be conquered including the parts of Russia to the east of Urals. The Russians will be 
 forced to sign a peace treaty. Then the strong US, UN combined counter-offensive begins and the 
 game gets very difficult.
  
  As the United States, you start the game after 3 years, the time taken to restore the war production 
 in the country to full flow. At first you will have defeat the Chinese and North Korean invasion 
 in South Korea. After succeeding there, you will have to move to conquered parts of Russia and 
 without Russian aid take on the Chinese forces there. You will be outnumbered by the huge military 
 force of China but you have the edge of supreme technology. Also the air superiority provides you 
 strength over your enemies. As America, the beginning is difficult with you heavily outnumbered 
 but later on your supreme technology will give you advantage over the rivals.
  
  When you start a mission you can use production points gained in your previous mission to buy new 
 units (tanks, soldiers etc..) and also upgrade your existing ones. You can also adjust your air superiority 
 with the points. Whenever you achieve a tactical objective in a mission, you will gain prestige 
 giving you more production and air points and sometimes protoype units which you yet cannot produce 
 in large scale. The points you thus gather in between a mission can also be used to purchase further 
 units and upgrades. In each turn of play you will get air points to use for air missions like air 
 strikes, defense etc.. which will be very effective in good weather conditions. The units which 
 have succesfully completed a mission will have increased morale and their ranks improves to the 
 likes of veteran etc.. which will make them more strong and powerful in attack in your next mission. 
 While purchasing an unit, you can also make use of the production points to buy ones with high 
 rank. The gameplay is very exciting and challenging but also difficult. That is why it is one of 
 the best strategy games ever released. Tactics plays a huge role in your success. You should be 
 aware of your units, especially to which units they are vulnerable and to which powerful and thus 
 use them wisely. For eg:- Tanks are vulnerable to longbow helicopters as they have no weapons to 
 attack helicopters. Use your production points carefully, for instance you can upgrade some units 
 with air defense weapons instead of buying an unit for that lone purpose. You must consider the 
 advantages of the side you are playing, like if you are playing as America then you enjoy air supremacy 
 and so you must make more use of air missions.
  
  The game controls are easy as mouse is only needed to play the game. The movement is done in the 
 form of hexes. Left Clicking on an unit you can see the maximum range of hexes it can move to. 
 Left click on a hex to move your unit there. Left click at an enemy unit to attack it. Right clicking 
 an unit gives you the details like different attacks or different defenses etc..
  
  The graphics is sharp and drawn to the finest details. There is only a single soundtrack but luckily 
 it is a good one and fits the game nicely. The sound effects are also good but don't expect the 
 quality as of in games like Call Of Duty.
  
  I was impressed very much with the gameplay. It is very exciting and challenging and fits perfectly 
 to the game's genre. The plot is excellent as I am sure no one will disagree to the possibility 
 of such a development. The graphics are good. As a negative point mmm! only I can think of is the 
 difficulty the game poses. The gameplay is really tough and you will have to save and load several 
 times to complete a mission. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
