-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Perimeter: Emperor's Testament
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/perimeteremperorstestament/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Innovative unit management and deployment.
 terraforming is a gimmicky but interesting twist on standard RTS design.
 lots of missions for just $20.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Bizarre storyline is hard to appreciate, or even understand.
 gameplay is virtually identical to the original game.
 dated look and sound.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep  5, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.3
Critic Score: 7.2, 17 Review (s)
User Score: 7.1, 108 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Paradox Interactive
Developer: K-D Lab
Genre: Sci-Fi Real-Time Strategy
Date:     Sep 4, 2006 &raquo;  
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Emperor's Testament offers plenty of new missions to keep you busy, although the overall experience 
 is practically identical to that of its predecessor. 

  Seeing as Perimeter was one of the most innovative real-time strategy games to come down the pike 
 in some time, you would expect it to spawn a radical expansion pack or sequel. The original game 
 is filled with out-there touches such as a bizarre plot featuring sponge worlds that can be bulldozed 
 however you see fit and nanotech units that morph like pint-sized Transformers. While Emperor's 
 Testament is another solid, supremely strange RTS, Russian developer K-D Lab has stuck to the template 
 of the 2004 original and made it a straightforward expansion. This is one of those  
 add-ons that builds on the old story, themes, and settings. The game is a collection of new maps 
 and missions that stretch the original campaign in a new direction, so only fans of the first game 
 need apply.  

          The Perimeter games don't just have a stranger storyline than any other RTS on the market, 
 they have a unique look, too.     

  It feels like you're picking up where you left off, too. K-D Lab assumes that you have no small 
 experience with the original Perimeter, as you aren't eased into the wacked-out goodness with an 
 in-game tutorial or a step-by-step primer in the manual. Instead, you kick off the roughly two-dozen-mission 
 campaign with disjointed opening cinematics and an incomprehensible briefing from the eponymous 
 emperor about why you're working as a slave to help him conquer the sponge. But even though the 
 plot and setting are calculated to make your head spin, the game itself remains focused because 
 of its innovations.  

  Just like in the original Perimeter, the headlining innovation here is the ability to terraform 
 map terrain in real time. Unlike the hills and mountains in other 3D RTS games, physical features 
 here are routinely flattened to construct energy cores needed to generate the game's lone resource 
 (which, unsurprisingly enough, is energy) and spread your base across the sponge. You can even 
 carve up the terrain with moatlike defensive ditches. Though this is undeniably nifty, terraforming 
 feels a bit gimmicky, as the terrain in each map is laid out so that there are just a few key locations 
 where it makes sense to level the ground or dig ditches. This gives missions a strong puzzle vibe 
 and forces you to figure out what the scenario designers require before committing to a course 
 of action. Unfortunately, it isn't effective to tear up the turf wherever and whenever you feel 
 like some impromptu landscaping will improve your odds against enemy forces.  

  Because of this limitation, you need to learn maps instead of dealing with them on the fly as tactical 
 challenges. Missions play so fast and so tough from the beginning of the game (which means, again, 
 that familiarity with the original Perimeter is a necessity before diving into this new campaign) 
 that you typically need to experiment to see how the enemy will attack or, at the least, mess around 
 with a mission for a few minutes to get your bearings before hitting restart. Only after doing 
 this will you gain an idea of where you need to dig ditches and establish choke points, what areas 
 you need to level to extend your energy-collection system, where the best spots are to build defensive 
 laser cannons, and so forth.  

  Unit management, however, makes it easy to forgive the somewhat limited, puzzle-heavy mission design. 
 Rather than the standard RTS formula of building custom facilities with which to crank out axemen, 
 commandos, tanks, and the like, here you build only three types of units -- soldiers, officers, and 
 technicians -- and then create labs that let you glom them together into bigger and better units, 
 such as tanks and fighter aircraft. This feature really opens up strategic and tactical options, 
 as you can completely transform your army on the fly to address whatever the enemy throws at you. 
 Snipers getting blasted by enemy howitzers? Change them to high-flying ceptor choppers with the 
 click of a mouse. Enemy countering your ceptors? Go back to the ground and turn them into mortars. 

  The big drawback to the gameplay here is that you've seen it all before. Emperor's Testament holds 
 no surprises for Perimeter veterans. Units are virtually identical to those in the original game. 
 Missions are all retreads, with goals and settings that will give you dj vu. Multiplayer features 
 just three maps, and since there is no matching service (the manual claims that the game comes 
 with third-party software support, but there is no evidence of this in the game itself) , you need 
 to know the IP addresses of opponents.  

          Thanks to the wonders of nanobots, units can go from ground grunts like snipers to these 
 ceptor choppers with a single click.     

  Also, this expansion is out of step with the times. It uses the stock Perimeter engine, which looked 
 great in early 2004 but looks rather jaggy in the second half of 2006. The sponge worlds still 
 look great, though, with a slightly icky, organic appearance that reminds you of mold viewed under 
 a microscope. Sound effects seem to date back even further than two years. Battle rat-a-tats and 
 booms are tinny, many vocal samples are plagued with cheesy synth effects, and the music is based 
 on a revved-up techno beat more suitable to a mid-'90s sim than a mid-'00s RTS.  

  So, second verse, same as the first. Perimeter: Emperor's Testament has the same appealing, if 
 decidedly peculiar, blend of RTS convention and innovation, although veterans of the first game 
 might find things a bit too familiar here. Still, it's only $20, so the price is right if you like 
 weirded-out real-time strategy.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (2 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Alkpaz
Rating: 6.3
Date: Jan 23, 2007 10:16 pm PT
Review:  Well, after investing hours on this game I have to say that I am not that impressed.. Sure its 
 innovative, but units are mere cannon fodder and you rely more on base expansion than anything 
 else.. I have to agree with the previous reviewer about lack of documentation.. and agree with 
 the GS review about only hard core Perimeter players playing this game.. It isn't for newbies or 
 the casual RTS gamer. I'm not about to go through forums and translate from Russian only to play 
 the game.. that being said I give it a FAIR score of 6. Gameplay is okay, a bit freaking, but so 
 was Darwinia when I first played. The game gripped me for the first 10hrs or so.. but it felt like 
 a chore thereafter. Sound, as with the GS review.. nothing mind blowing.. Graphics are okay.. but 
 I base more on gameplay than on graphics alone. The game is pretty stable and runs very well, no 
 graphical glitches on a 8800 GTS (which is still a new card, and is bound to have game glitching) 
 Value: worth 20 bucks? If you like to grind through the game, or have played the previous game. 
 I do have to say it is a new twist on the genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MxM
Rating: 8.7
Date: Sep 5, 2006 11:13 pm PT
Review:  (This is review from a person who did not play the original perimeter for people who did not play 
 it either)
  
  If you tired from all the same gameplay in standard "Age of something" games and want to have new 
 challenge this game is for you. It has so unique gameplay, that it takes quite some time to get 
 used to it . Definitely 9/10.
  
  I actually like clean graphics a lot in this game, but it is somewhat dated and for this kind of 
 simple graphics, it is slow on max settings. Thus only 8/10.
  
  The music is simply the best I heard for any game (I may have unusual music taste) , The in-game 
 SFX sound is OK, nothing to right home about. But because of the music I put 9/10 for overall sound.
 
  
  The value I put only 8/10 because I do suspect that it will not be easy to find online game.
 
  
  On negative side is the absence of detailed documentation of how the combat performed. I spend 
 quite some time reading some Russian sites to find out what exactly those damage numbers mean. 
 You see, the game model is so unique that you previous RTS experience does not quite cut it. The 
 absence of good documentation is my biggest disappointment. Sometimes even in single player campaign 
 you feel at loss, because the game manual is not stellar and the game does not have tutorial. (Like 
 "charge spiral and teleport" task - of cause I start looking for the "teleport" button and there 
 is no such thing, instead you have to move your frame somehow somewhere...) . Same goes to the story 
 line. I had to read it on the web in order to understand better what is going on. The absence of 
 good documentation makes my tilt only 9/10.
  
  Overall it is quite pleasant experience and if you are looking for something new, and if you like 
 unusual games like Darwania, you have to try this game as well. Plus, it is available for download 
 for only $19! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
