-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Perimeter
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/perimeter/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun 29, 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.2
Critic Score: 7.7, 36 Review (s)
User Score: 7.7, 418 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Codemasters
Developer: 1C
Genre: Sci-Fi Real-Time Strategy
Date:     Jun 30, 2004 &raquo;  
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Perimeter is without a doubt one of the most innovative real-time strategy games to appear in years. 
 

  Innovation is a word that gets bandied about a lot but is rarely seen, especially in the realm 
 of real-time strategy games. But every now and then, someone delivers a game that's completely 
 unlike anything seen before. Perimeter is just such a game. This real-time strategy game from Russian 
 developer 1C delivers a high-concept sci-fi setting, a load of innovative gameplay, and beautiful 
 graphics. And though it falls short in a few areas, it's still a breath of fresh air in a genre 
 in need of it.         The powerful perimeter shield in action; while it's raised, nothing can 
 penetrate your defenses, but you won't be able to do much either.     

  To understand Perimeter, you have to understand the game's plot, which, we admit, is a bit bewildering. 
 In the distant future, humanity is forced to travel to a new world through a series of different 
 dimensions. In addition to battling rival factions trying to get to the end destination first, 
 humanity also encounters the scourge, a strange, hostile life-form that inhabits the dimensional 
 worlds and one whose shape is determined by human thought; it can be a dragon, a swarm of ants 
 or other insects, and more. When humanity arrives in a new dimension in its "frame," which is like 
 a huge floating city, it has to establish a base to charge up the dimensional gate and to power 
 all of the defenses needed to protect the frame from attack. (These defenses include the perimeter, 
 a powerful shield that can repulse any attack, but one that draws more power than can be generated, 
 so it can only operate for limited periods of time.) And in order to construct power cores and 
 other structures, the terrain must be terraformed into a smooth surface, which is why Perimeter 
 could be considered a real-time terraforming strategy game; you dispatch droids to level mountains 
 and hills and fill in canyons to create a flat surface. Part of the strategy is trying to figure 
 out how to maximize the amount of land at your disposal in order to extend your chain of power 
 cores to either reach an important objective first or encircle your opponent. It's a completely 
 different dynamic from most real-time strategy games because land -- for all intents and purposes -- is 
 the primary resource. In order to construct an effective base, you need to construct a network 
 of energy cores (which also serve as the "fence posts" for the perimeter shield) , research labs, 
 factories, and stationary defenses, including lasers, rocket pods, howitzers, and subterranean 
 guns that can knock out tunneling enemies. The more you build up, the more power you'll require, 
 which means you have to build a larger base that's tougher to defend. On the flip side, you can 
 also target the weak spot in an enemy's energy network to bring down seemingly insurmountable defenses. 

          One way to get around a defensive perimeter is to go underneath it. Here, a swarm of burrowers 
 is causing havoc with the base on the surface.     

  Perimeter isn't just about base-building. When you go on offense, you have access to a powerful 
 and unique unit system based on nanotechnology. There are three basic kinds of robotic units in 
 the game: soldiers, officers, and technicians. Individually, these units aren't very powerful, 
 but if you have the technology and the appropriate numbers of each unit, you can meld them together 
 and transform them into something much more powerful, like a mobile rocket launcher, tank, or aircraft. 
 You can even turn them into burrowers that can tunnel beneath an enemy base, disrupting the smooth 
 surface and causing damage to the buildings. This reduces the need to build a gigantic army consisting 
 of a half-dozen unit types, as you can just build one group that can transform to any need. And 
 there's a traditional rock-paper-scissors relationship between the various units, so you have to 
 constantly transform your units on the fly to adapt to enemy tactics.     

  There's a wide variety of missions in the game that ensure you'll be doing something slightly different 
 each time. In one mission, you have to capture an enemy frame by cutting it off from its own energy 
 network, while in another mission you have to wipe out scourge nests spread out across the map. 
 You're given Starcraft-style mission briefings prior to each level, and this is where the game 
 gets confusing, as the campaign seems to jump from faction to faction haphazardly with little sense 
 of continuity or plot. In one mission you're playing one faction, and then it's an entirely different 
 faction in the next mission. In a way, the game's stylized dialogue is too stylized for its own 
 good, and it's hard to keep up with what's going on.  

          The graphics engine is capable of rendering beautiful and unique terrain features, like 
 this dragon carved in the landscape.     

  Perimeter is also hampered by some lackluster artificial intelligence; the scourge is a pretty 
 mindless enemy that spawns the same units at you over and over again. On the other hand, the AI 
 for enemy factions is pretty good at identifying the weak spots in your defenses and concentrating 
 on them. Then again, once you figure out the formula for efficient base-building, it's pretty easy 
 to fend off the enemy's assaults. In fact, most of the challenge in the game comes from figuring 
 out what tactics the level designers want you to adopt on each level and then proceeding from there, 
 so it feels like you're jumping through hoops at times. Trying to finish off a computer opponent 
 can be a frustrating experience, as the computer can raise its perimeter shield in short spurts 
 over and over again, just long enough to repair any damage that you've inflicted on the base. This 
 can make the mission drag on in a prolonged game of attrition, but it's one you've got to wait 
 out in order to advance.  

  At least the action looks gorgeous while you're waiting. Something needs to be said for the game's 
 graphics, which use a cutting-edge mix of polygons and voxels (pixel-like elements) . The terrain 
 of each world looks absolutely unique, thanks to the "crumbly" nature of the voxels, and each level 
 looks completely different from the next. There are lots of impressive, little effects, such as 
 the transformation of the surrounding area into a shining, mirrored surface when you build an energy 
 core. However, all this graphical beauty comes at an extreme price. The developers boast that the 
 engine can push a million polygons per frame, and this, combined with the voxels, requires a lot 
 of processing power. On a 3GHz machine, the frame rate can drop into the single digits whenever 
 there is a medium-sized amount of action on the screen. Perimeter is a game that will push the 
 most powerful systems to their limit and beyond. And though you can't tweak the detail settings, 
 the game does offer settings to sacrifice eye candy for performance.  

  On the sound front, Perimeter's sound effects are standard for the genre; laser beams sound like 
 what you'd expect, and rockets have the familiar whoosh to them. Since your units are robotic in 
 nature, there's none of the idle banter you find in most real-time strategy games, so there's not 
 much sense of personality. More often than not, the most prominent sound in the game is the background 
 music, which, while good, isn't memorable.  

          Another way to shatter an enemy's base is to carpet bomb with heavy bombers, but you'll 
 have to drain their perimeter shield first.    The game's multiplayer suite is also a bit underwhelming; 
 Perimeter offers only deathmatch or team deathmatch modes. All the multiplayer maps are designed 
 for four players, so they feel too big if you're just playing a one-on-one game against a buddy. 
 Performance becomes an issue in multiplayer, as human players tend to build large bases and lots 
 of units, so the game can get very choppy at times. Then there are smaller nitpicks, like the lack 
 of a chat window during setup, which means you can't chat with your opponent.  

  Perimeter has some notable shortcomings, but it's definitely worth checking out if you're a fan 
 of real-time strategy. The developers deserve a lot of credit for daring to be different, and Perimeter 
 is without a doubt one of the most innovative real-time strategy games to appear in years.     
 
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (12 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: luna7fox
Rating: 6.1
Date: Mar 14, 2007 6:56 am PT
Review:  Perimeter: Real time strategy reformed (sic) it says on the box. Only, it's not really reformed 
 at all. I picked this up in the bargain bin because I had read 2 positive reviews both scoring 
 it 8/10. This seems a bit high for what this game is, basically it's a simple, stripped down RTS 
 with a couple of interesting ideas thrown in. This game is not revolutionary, it does not change 
 the RTS formula in any way. I was prompted to write this review after playing for a bit I found 
 myself thinking, 'if I paid full price, would I be satisfied?'... the answer: 'No.' I had grown 
 bored of the combat RTS genre at Tiberian Sun, which for me was a dull, formulaic stroll through 
 super-familiar territory. Since then, there hasn't been anything much that has caught my eye. Perimeter 
 did, well, vaguely did, because it seems to have something more, plus it was really cheap.
  
  Firstly the nice things: the story is complex and entertaining, but also familiar in a good 
 way. It is standard sci-fi stuff, but can be quite gripping at times. The visuals are excellent, 
 very smooth and polished. Another nice touch is the ability to generate force fields, shields to 
 protect your buildings from enemies, although it isn't really that big a deal since once you get 
 some decent turrets you hardly ever use it. I also very much enjoyed the ability of units to morph. 
 This is a nice idea that is implemented and used well.
  
  Now, onto the negatives: Most irritating is that there is no option to quieten the voice as it 
 is tied to the volume of the effects. If you quieten the effects you can't hear the battles. The 
 zooming mechanism is ok, but hasn't got a sufficient scale to easily negotiate the map, it hardly 
 zooms out at all. I realise these are not particularly game breaking, but the main point is that 
 this game does absolutely nothing new. It sticks to the tried and tested formula dating back to 
 Dune 2. To be honest, after playing the first major campaign I grew bored and wondered if it was 
 really worth continuing. Gather resource, build base, build army, destroy enemy. The resource gathering 
 has been stripped to one resource (through terraforming) . Unfortunately, the AI of the terraform 
 units is poor. They don't seem to follow any logical progression, it's certainly not the chronological 
 order which you instructed, meaning that if you need a certain bit done (to join your base for 
 example) at that specific time, you have to delete all the other bits. The scourge AI is poor too, 
 they merely break out of the ground and lunge to your nearest building repeating ad nauseum.
  
  Again, this is the classic case of something that has a couple of gimmicks being classified 
 innovative when it just isn't. I think a lot of reviewers get innovation confused with name changes. 
 Instead of mining ore you terraform, rather than having a construction yard you have a frame. Windtraps/power 
 generators are called energy cores. This isn't innovation, it's renaming, the core gameplay is 
 completely the same as it has been for that past 15 years. Don't believe the hype (unless it's 
 less a fiver) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dekou
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 31, 2006 9:26 am PT
Review:  Perimeter is a real-time strategy game. Bored already? Thinking of dozens of C&C clones and other 
 clickfests? Don't, because this game isn't like that.
  
  It's difficult to explain the game mechanics and even more difficult to play the game itself. You 
 have a base, some energy and a Perimeter. The latter is a defensive energy barrier you can raise 
 if you feel the need to. However, it consumes LOTS of energy, so it can't be kept up all the time. 
 You can get more energy by building power plants and expanding your territory and Perimeter by 
 terraforming, and you need energy for... well, everything.
  
  The units you build are quite useless at the beginning, but you can combine different types of 
 them to get them "upgraded" to better units. The trick is that you can morph them in the field, 
 transforming your snipers into aircrafts to fly over terrain. You have a maximum of five squads 
 of units, and while this may restrict things a bit, it sure does make everything a bit easier to 
 understand.
  
  I'm doing a poor job in explaining how the game works and I'm not even telling everything, so imagine 
 how complicated the game really is. That's the best and the worst thing about it. It requires a 
 lot of thinking. And a lot of clicking. And good reflexes. Even though it's complicated, it's also 
 fast and the AI, while not being the brightest one out there (though it's not dumb, either) , always 
 has an advantage in numbers. So Perimeter can get very hard even for an experienced RTS player. 
 But then, if it's challenge you seek, it's challenge you'll get.
  
  Perimeter is a pretty game. If you zoom in, you can see cars flying around in your city bubble. 
 Terrain is altered by gunfire and creature spawns, and it really plays an important role, because 
 you don't get energy from spoiled areas. Besides, you can destroy buildings by destroying the surface 
 they are built on. The music is good, and it catches the game's atmosphere well. There are only 
 a few tracks, but all of them are quite long, so it doesn't get repetitive.
  
  If you want a hard, beautiful and revolutionary RTS, Perimeter is a game you definitely shouldn't 
 miss. However I don't recommend it to gamers who want everything simple and conventional. Simply 
 because this game is neither.
  
  P. S. I think the community is dead. Not sure, but I think it is. The game is, however, quite long, 
 hard and extremely cheap. Besides, the expansion will soon be translated. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 17n5
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 18, 2006 7:12 am PT
Review:  Perimeter is a ground breaking real-time strategy game which brings, a range of 
  fresh ideas to the RTS genre. Use strategic Terraforming to acquire resources, 
  project a impenetrable 
 perimeter force shield to protect from attack and marshal 
  your forces though manipulation of nano-technology. 
  
  These key gameplay elements deliver 
 a new challenging and rewarding experience 
  for single and multiplayer. 
  
  Perimeter is set in a universe where the earth has been abandoned and multiple 
  civilisations 
 are in a race across a newly discovered galaxy to colonise the 
  only suitable planet. This epic journey will involve exploring many new worlds, 
  battling against 
 other civilisations and indigenous species, all to acquire 
  energy to continue the search for a new home. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ArmyComrade
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 19, 2006 4:12 pm PT
Review:  The first time I played this game I was confused because this game had things that you wouldn't 
 expect from an average RTS which is good because you get to play something. Such things that make 
 it different are terraforming the land. Terraforming ? that's cool making the ground flat in any 
 area of the map which makes you feel like God in a way with that kind of power. Another interesting 
 thing that really makes this game interesting is nano morphing. What this is, is taking groups 
 of certain basic units (soldiers, officers, and technicians) and turning them into other units like 
 snipers. The units are impressive. These are units that look different from anything you've seen. 
 The graphics are amaazing, the gameplay is perfect, sound is excellent, and everything else that 
 I haven't mentioned is excellent. Playing this game is extremely fun and challenging. I enjoy everything 
 about this game and I give it a perfect 10. If you don't have it you got to buy it, it's worth 
 your money and will give you endless time of fun entertainment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: master_blue
Rating: 8.7
Date: Sep 11, 2006 10:41 am PT
Review:  Perimeter is a truly unique RTS game, its complex which is probably a reason why it was put of 
 by so many people, the music will seem strange at first but compliments this game very well. The 
 story is also unique, you play as all three factions during the campaign, you start in the far 
 flung future as the 'exodus' faction trying to find a new home aboard your 'frame' which is like 
 a floating city, but your going along various planets all of which are incredibly unstable (falling 
 to bits) and inevitably the scourge always emerge, these scourge are manifestations of humans emotions 
 ranging from pesky bugs to full blown demons and dragons.
  Theres also a splinter faction called the Harkbackhood which is actually trying to go back to its 
 original home from which the exodus faction left, this faction actually uses the scourge to its 
 own advantage, and then theres the empire which dont want to merely abandon a planet and go to 
 the next but establish a permenant empire.
  
  The gameplay is again unique, each faction relies upon nano bots to level a area of your choosing 
 into a smooth plane for which to set your 'frame' down on, as you expand you can smooth more areas 
 of terrain down with the nano bots to build structures, to build units you have some basic troops 
 and combine them to form better and better squads to attack the enemy, eventually during the better 
 battles/skirmish modes entire levels will be levelled of with two players trying frantically to 
 capture enemy buildings (by knocking out their power supplies to sections of their base and then 
 building your own power structure to assume control over unpowered buildings) and detroy their 
 army and frame. Each factions has its own 'ultimate' units which can inflict serious damage on 
 both the enemy and the terrain.
  The singleplayer campaign has some memroable moments, some very exciting battles and afteer you 
 complete a map its avalible to select in multiplayer/skirmish which is a nice touch i guess, the 
 story is quite interesting and presented in a good sci fi way, the sound is decent and as i said 
 earlier seem strange but you'll find that it suites the game.
  The graphics are spectacular, certainly better than most other RTS games and i had this game first 
 of all when i was playing it on a GeFroce 4 MX 128mb card and thats pretty bad card and this game 
 still looked fantastic.
  So whats wrong with the game? well some missions are pretty unforgiving and after a while you can 
 feel it can get repetitive, unfortunately thats the same with any RTS game. Multiplayer isnt exactly 
 alive and kicking which will be dissapointing if you want to play alot of multiplayer but its still 
 a good game, a real gem of a game infact, and a great shame it wasnt welcomed as much as something 
 generic and boring say Ground Control 2. 
  A real shame.
  But at least you can get it on budget, (10 dollars in usa, five pounds in UK on sold out label)
 
  Warning contains star force! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarthMoses
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 12, 2005 11:07 pm PT
Review:  Perimeter has some amazing gameplay! I don't think I could completly describe it, at least not 
 without missing the whole point of the game! Perimeter takes a shot at moving the RTS genre in 
 a new direction, but the bullet's range just wasn't far enough! It's too bad this game was under 
 the radar of most casual gamers, otherwise, we might be seeing quite bit more originality coming 
 out of the industry! I encourage anyobdy who wants something new in their gaming to go out and 
 get themselves a copy of this game! The graphics could use a tune-up, but lets just look at that 
 as a nice treat for our friends who can't quite afford the latest hardware! The learning curve 
 really depends on how many RTS games you've played, if its not very many at all, you'll probably 
 spend a good hour and a half finding your way through, if you've played a lot of RTS, expect to 
 be frustrated for a good 2 hours, but if you're right in between then you'll understand in 45 minutes 
 or so. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LordChen2
Rating: 2.8
Date: Dec 3, 2005 9:59 am PT
Review:  Seriously though... the graphics are pretty good, the screenshots all look very attractive. This 
 new idea makes it look attractive but it is SUCH A BAD GAME. Everything looks nice and dandy once 
 you get going but once you advance it is simply too repetitve and makes you want to hang yourself. 
 The computer does the same thing over and over again. It simply repairs, builds more and keeps 
 swarming your base untill your finger bleeds from clicking. The game is simply dreadful, I advise 
 you NOT to pay a nickle for it ! 
  
  To sum it all up-
  Graphics are ok, storyline is a 'pass', AI is 'middle finger' and gameplay is 'middle finger'. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rosesunkist
Rating: 3.9
Date: May 22, 2005 7:43 am PT
Review:  Buy this game if you really want to waste your money. Better yet, send it to me, I need diapers 
 for my baby. I thought that this would be a pretty good game, graphics look great, user layout 
 is good, but the gameplay really sucks. I have wasted the past 2 weeks of my life on this game. 
 If you want to spend 10+ hours game time repeating a single battle (on easy mode!) go ahead and 
 get this. But if you have something more productive to do, like giving your cat a flea bath or 
 looking for naughty pictures online, then pass up this game.
  
  If you still want to know about this game read on. Like I said, the graphics are really good, very 
 good detail. The plot is an interesting one, albeit a bit confusing, because you keep switching 
 sides after certain battles, whether you want to or not. Commands are relatively simple, click 
 and place to build. For building units, it can be a bit confusing at first, but you catch on. In 
 battles, once you start losing, there is no hope, you must always have the advantage, but on a 
 level playing field, you have no chance. The computer attacks, builds, repairs, and moves faster 
 than you can. It seems to defend itself from attacks you have yet to make.
  
  I think that I am going to glue this game to my son's wall because he likes how shiny it is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: orthancstone
Rating: 5.3
Date: Sep 9, 2004 4:00 am PT
Review:  Probably the most obvious thing about Perimeter from the get go is that it tries very hard to be 
 different. The problem is, it accomplishes this more in its game menu than anywhere else.
  
  It isn't hard to be interested in Perimeter early on, as the game teaches you its basic concepts 
 and allows you to see what happens upon using weapons such as the perimeter. Once you move on in 
 the story, though, the excitement of "new" wears off quick. Furthermore, many of the story elements 
 are downright annoying. Finally, the enemy are more of a nuisance than a treat.
  
  The graphics in the game are quite lovely. Nothing you are going to write home to mom about, but 
 with a nice machine you will appreciate the view.
  
  My favorite part of the game is the sound. The music files, while a bit corny, are enjoyable and 
 provide good mood to the game.
  
  If I had to sum up anything in terms of this game, it'd be to say that you should wait until this 
 hits the bargain bins if you are really interested to try it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkTyrael
Rating: 4.4
Date: Jul 3, 2004 12:10 pm PT
Review:  After reading the previews and seeing the reivew of 8.2 on Gamespot, I decided to try this game 
 out. But whoa, is it bad!!!
  
  The Story is unfulling, to say the least, there is no sense of purpose at all.
  Secondly There 
 simply seems to be a continual flow of Ant like and Bat like creatures that seem to do nothing 
 but marche into obtects damaging them.
  
  Your forces are not much better, there seems to only be one real grouping of your units so as you 
 build new units they will all move to be in the same area. There also seems to be gorges around 
 the your units will retarded walk into and die. 
  
  FInally the perimeter is just stupid, although it runs off "batteries" or stored energy it always 
 can be activated, if only just for a second, meaning that as you base is attacked you can continually 
 raise it a destroy whatever enemies are nearby.
  
  Normally Gamespot is right on, but this last review make me wonder if there are not two games by 
 the same name, one I've played and one they reviewed.
  As one of the previous reviews say, Try Ground Control 2, its a way way better game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blue_Tomato
Rating: 4
Date: Jun 30, 2004 2:18 pm PT
Review:  Sorry, I do not really understand why anyone would think this is a good RTS game. The graphics 
 is nice at first glance, but the lack of details and polish is fundamental. 
  
  Having aliens stream at you like a flow of particles instead of having to be managed and use AI 
 to get you is not interesting at all. There's no good story, and the game gets dull, repetetive 
 and tedious fast. 
  
  They try to be inventive, but it takes away all what is working with RTS games, and replaces them 
 with experimental ideas that does not.
  
  Why this got a 8.2 at Gamespot is beyond me...
  
  Try Ground Control 2 instead, it is in a completely superior in all ways...
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jdhas
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 29, 2004 7:35 pm PT
Review:  A fantastic and innovative strategy game that truly "thinks outside the box." The most important 
 thing to understand about Perimeter is that it is often much more concerned about being different 
 than, necessarily, any good.
  
  As already said in the Gamespot review, the graphics are truly stunning, but smoke will be seeping 
 from under the hood of even the most robust hot-rod gaming rig. The effect of the shield being 
 raised around your base is particularly rewarding.
  
  My biggest complaint about Perimeter is the irritating wave-after-wave attack style of the Zerg-like 
 enemy, The Scourge. Mane of the early levels are really just "survival" leves when you are tasked 
 with meeting some resourceing or researching goal while fending off wave-after-wave of mindless 
 Scourge. Yawn.
  
  Any fan of the genre -- Space RTS -- who also has at least 2 GHz and a GB of RAM will find a great 
 deal to apprecaite, if not necessarily enjoy, in Perimeter. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
