-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Peter Jackson's King Kong: The Official Game of the Movie
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/kingkong/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Playing as Kong flat-out rules.
 First-person action is a satisfying mix of great combat and simple puzzle solving.
 Highly atmospheric art design.
 Fantastic voice acting, sound effects and music.
 Some truly horrific monsters to fight.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Six hours of gameplay.
 The whole New York section at the end is very brief, and not all that great.
 Not enough parts where you play as Kong.
 Doesn't look that impressive unless you've got a ridiculous PC.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 23, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.1
Critic Score: 7.8, 29 Review (s)
User Score: 8.1, 1,090 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ubisoft
Developer: Ubisoft Montpellie
Genre: Modern Action Adventure
Date:     Nov 21, 2005 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
It isn't quite as impressive looking as its console counterparts, and it's a short ride, but there's 
 still a great time to be had with King Kong on the PC. 

  The first-person action adventure/third-person gorilla beat-'em-up combo genre has been born in 
 Peter Jackson's King Kong: The Official Game of the Movie. As the long-winded title suggests, this 
 is the game based on the upcoming retelling of the 1933 film by the Academy Award-winning director 
 of the Lord of the Rings trilogy. King Kong feels more like a stand-alone product than a handy 
 cash-in for the license, however. This game blends the aforementioned first-person action sequences 
 with its third-person (or should it be third-gorilla?) components remarkably well, as you traverse 
 the perils of Skull Island as both screenwriter Jack Driscoll and the 800-pound gorilla himself, 
 King Kong. It also helps that both components, on their own standing, can be a great deal of fun 
 when the game is at its best -- which, fortunately, is the majority of the time. Unfortunately, even 
 the majority of the time isn't very long in the case of King Kong, a game that won't take you more 
 than a single afternoon to beat. But that afternoon will be well spent.  

          Skull Island: Home of beautiful people, lush beaches, and friendly animal life.     

 
  The story of King Kong opens with filmmaker Carl Denham (voiced by the always-entertaining Jack 
 Black) in a fit of desperation. A film studio is about to can his next project, so it's going to 
 take something drastic to get things back on track. Along with his screenwriter, Jack (played by 
 the soft-spoken Adrien Brody) , and struggling actress Ann Darrow (played wonderfully by Naomi Watts) , 
 Carl procures a ship to take him and his misfit film crew to the mysterious Skull Island, a supposedly 
 abandoned home of a lost civilization. Why exactly he goes to all this trouble just to film a movie 
 isn't really explained in the game. In fact, most of the early story exposition is told briefly 
 via the first half of the movie trailer you've likely seen in theaters already. Obviously it would 
 seem that there is more to all this, but you won't get to find out about it until you go see the 
 movie in a few weeks. By the same token, because the movie isn't out yet, we can't tell you how 
 much of the story King Kong: The Official Game of the Movie might spoil for you. If you're the 
 type that absolutely wants to be surprised, you might want to wait a few weeks before grabbing 
 this game.  

  The game itself picks up right as the ship reaches the gloomy island. You open your eyes to see 
 the world through the perspective of Jack, just as he's being lowered in a rowboat, along with 
 Denham, Ann, and a pair of sailors, to set forth for the shore. It's stormy waters, and sure enough, 
 things go awry when large chunks of rock begin plummeting into the sea, right near your boat. You 
 wake up on the beach, with the almost angelic Ann standing over you. You're marooned, confused, 
 and wondering what those horrible, beastly shrieks are that are coming from further within the 
 island. All this happens before you even pick up a weapon, and you'll honestly spend the first 
 10 minutes or so of the game just looking around, taking in the scenery and gaining your bearings. 

  In fact, you'll probably do a lot of sight-seeing in King Kong, partially due to the great atmosphere 
 (which we'll get to later) , and also because there isn't anything on the screen to distract you 
 from the enemies and scenery in front of you. There's no heads-up display of any kind. You gauge 
 how much health you have via a screen effect that flashes the screen red when you're injured. When 
 in such a state, you need to get away from the action briefly to heal up. If you take another major 
 blow while things are still flashing, you'll die. Ammo is kept track of via verbal cues from Jack. 
 Every time you reload, he says out loud if he's got enough ammo, or if he's starting to run dry. 
 It's a great system, really. You won't ever feel like you're missing a HUD, since these subtle 
 methods of information really keep you in the loop.  

  You can only hold one gun at a time, though you can pocket weapons in favor of pointier instruments 
 of death, like discarded bones of fallen creatures and spears that have been left lying about. 
 You will need to toss said weapon before you can pull your gun again, however (which does make 
 sense, given the limited carrying ability of Jack) . The game goes out of its way to make its ammo 
 pickups seem completely sensible, too. The captain of the ship flies around the island in a seaplane, 
 dropping crates full of guns for you to pick up here and there, while he looks for a decent place 
 to land. Spears and bones are left in areas that seem to make perfect sense for the scenery. And 
 apart from bones, ammo isn't unlimited. If you find a cache of three spears, then that's all you 
 get to use (though you can reuse spears over and over again if you need to) . You also only get 
 a certain amount of ammo per gun, and once you're dry, you'll need to improvise. It's great though, 
 because the game always seems to leave enough other weapons around to give you just enough to beat 
 off whatever threats are coming your way. If you're cautious and jump between spears and guns on 
 a measured basis, you'll never feel like you're hopelessly outgunned.  

          Somehow King Kong manages to make a dark, gloomy, depressing island into a beautiful thing 
 to look at.     

  Whether you're chucking spears, pumping shotguns, or letting loose barrages of bullets with a Tommy 
 gun, the combat during Jack's sections of King Kong are always satisfying. The weapons all pack 
 a good punch, and it's surprisingly easy to hit your targets. There's no targeting reticle turned 
 on by default, but you don't need one. So long as you're aiming in the direction of an enemy, you're 
 likely to hit it. It's not that the game is completely holding your hand, it's just making it so 
 it doesn't have to clutter the interface with a precise reticle, and that's a great touch.  

  It also helps that the monsters you'll encounter on Skull Island are unbelievably ferocious. 
 Everything that lives on this island is like a bigger, significantly mutated version of an animal 
 that was highly dangerous and unpleasantly tempered to begin with. Angry dinosaurs, 10-foot-long 
 millipedes, hordes of giant scorpions, and bats that look more like massive gargoyles are just 
 some of the horrific beasts that inhabit this hellacious place, and they don't much care for the 
 fact that you're on their turf. They're smart, too. They'll attack in packs and force you into 
 hiding spots and cover positions. And boy, do they like to bite. Some enemies can't even be killed 
 by puny humans, like the packs of Tyrannosaurus rexes that periodically pop up. The best you can 
 do when they show up is hope to distract them long enough with gunfire and spears to find a way 
 the hell out of there. It's tense, gripping stuff when you're running around like a madman, desperately 
 shooting at a T-Rex that's angrily growling at deafening volume, and it shows that this game has 
 more to it than just mindless shooting.     

  The game definitely has its puzzle elements as well. Often times you'll be challenged to seek out 
 missing handles to insert into large wooden posts (for the purposes of rotation, to open a large 
 door) , or set ablaze a patch of briars to clear your path. OK, so maybe the term "challenge" is 
 a bit generous. Very few of the things you're tasked with take an awful lot of thought on your 
 part, mainly because the levels are laid out in such a linear fashion that it's tough to get lost. 
 It's also because your artificial intelligence-controlled compatriots are mostly smart enough to 
 know where they're going, so save for the few bits where you're on your own, all you really need 
 to do is just follow them. It's cool stuff, despite its relative simplicity. You definitely get 
 a primal feel out of spearing nearby grubs to distract a pack of raptors, and of realizing that 
 fire is your greatest resource.  

          It's good to be the king.     

  Oh, and did we mention that you get to play as King Kong? We make so much of the Jack portions 
 of the game because they're really the bulk of what you're playing throughout the adventure. Those 
 sections take up roughly three quarters to four fifths of the action. This is a shame, because 
 for as good as those sections are, playing as Kong kicks ass. During the Kong sections, the camera 
 switches to a more cinematic view, showing Kong in all his gigantic glory. There are basically 
 two things you do when playing Kong: Swing through the jungle and lay waste to ugly monsters. The 
 swinging portions are mostly contextual button presses. Get up to a ledge, press a button, and 
 he'll jump and swing from the rock hanging off the cliff nearby. Then press another button a moment 
 later, and he'll jump to and climb on a patch of vines that covers another cliff. These bits are 
 very clearly laid out, which is good because the swinging chases that Kong is often involved in 
 tend to move very quickly, relying more on reflexive action than any carefully thought out movements. 
 There are also times where you'll have Ann firmly tucked in hand, and you'll get to use her in 
 puzzle sections. By letting her loose on certain platforms, she can toss flaming spears at things 
 that would otherwise block your path.  

  That's cool and everything, but where the fun's really at is unleashing your gorilla fury on an 
 opposing beast. Be they giant bats, T-Rexes, or swarms of angry natives, Kong has a lot of enemies. 
 Though Kong doesn't have an awful lot of attack variety, he's got what a giant gorilla needs to 
 crack some skulls. You've got basic punches and grabs, a couple of little combo moves, and contextual 
 finishing maneuvers that involve Kong grappling a downed opponent, and you mashing a button as 
 quick as you can to snap a T-Rex's jaw, a bat's neck, or anything of that nature. It's simple, 
 but it looks fantastic when you're pulling these moves off. You really get that sense of pure, 
 animalistic brutality as you're laying waste to these unholy beasts.  

  Between the Jack and Kong portions of the game, there are a lot of enjoyable things to experience 
 in King Kong; it's just too bad the experience doesn't last longer. At most, this is a six-, maybe 
 seven-hour game the whole way through. Even when played casually, it isn't something that'll take 
 you very long to get through, since every chapter of the story moves at such a brisk pace. It also 
 bears mention that the conclusion to the game isn't the most satisfying thing in the world. Ninety 
 percent of the game takes place on Skull Island, but when Kong is inevitably captured and brought 
 to New York at the very end of the game, you'd expect some kind of fantastic rampage through the 
 city streets. That doesn't really happen. Yes, you get to go on a rampage, but it's a pretty subdued 
 rampage that doesn't take very long. Jack also completely disappears from the storyline the moment 
 you leave Skull Island, which is a touch disconcerting. The ending itself is done the way you would 
 expect King Kong to end, though it ties together with a little too much brevity for the way the 
 rest of the adventure is paced.  

  King Kong is available for roughly every platform known to mankind. OK, so there's no Commodore 
 64 version, but not counting handheld versions that have yet to be released, it's out on the Xbox, 
 PlayStation 2, GameCube, PC, DS, Game Boy Advance, and Xbox 360 -- and in fact, there are two distinctly 
 different versions of the PC game available. The boxed retail game you can buy in stores looks 
 pretty much like a port of the Xbox game, with a few improved effects and textures here and there. 
 There's also a "gamer's edition" that you can only buy online and download. This version is geared 
 up to look far more comparable to the Xbox 360 version, which includes fantastic lighting, improved 
 level geometry and textures, better fire effects, scarier-looking dinosaurs and beasts, and of 
 course, a better-looking Kong than you'd find on the other console versions.  

  The problem is that the downloadable version takes up roughly 5.5 gigs of hard drive space (and 
 is certainly no picnic to download) , versus the 1.5 gigs on the boxed copy. It also asks for the 
 kind of PC specs that most people would have to sell a kidney on the black market for, including 
 a  minimum  of a Pentium IV 3.0GHz processor, 2 gigs of RAM, and so forth. What's even crazier 
 is that these minimum specs don't seem terribly ideal for getting the game to run well. We tested 
 this version of the game out on a machine that included an AMD Athlon 64 FX-57 processor, dual 
 Nvidia GeForce 7800 GTX 256MB cards in SLI configuration, and 2 gigs of RAM, and we were able to 
 get fairly stable performance out of the game even when running in a higher resolution, but the 
 load times were absolutely atrocious between chapter sequences, sometimes taking well over a minute 
 each time. Even dropping the different settings down didn't seem to affect the loads very much. 
 Needless to say, the vast majority of you will probably want to stick with the boxed version of 
 King Kong, even though it doesn't look as impressive, simply because that one takes a much more 
 "one size fits all" kind of attitude. The "gamer's edition" is clearly designed for those with 
 supercomputers only.  

  Regardless of which version of Kong you play, you'll still get a great sense of atmosphere while 
 playing it. It just captures the aesthetics of this nightmare of an island extremely well. This 
 is a dank, rain-soaked, ugly place to be, and the visuals capture this atmosphere in such a way 
 that you'll be delighted to look at all these dreary details. All the creature designs are excellent, 
 and they move and behave in a very realistic fashion. Unfortunately, when they die they simply 
 disappear (unless another beast happens upon its corpse and begins to devour it) . The environments 
 on Skull Island all have this hazy, creepy look to them. You'll see these big mountains and stone 
 structures off in the background, just beneath the thick fog and the various flying monsters that 
 circle around. This is most certainly a dangerous jungle, and you never quite know where and when 
 something nasty might jump out at you. There are some minor details that stick out as less than 
 great, like the gun models, which look a little awkward, and some of the ground textures, which 
 look nasty even on the 360. Also, the New York bit of the game doesn't look nearly as good as anything 
 on Skull Island. When you're playing as Kong, hanging off the Empire State Building, that looks 
 neat. But all the buildings have this overly angular, flat look to them, and there's really not 
 much to populate the streets. Again, you spend far more of your time on Skull Island than you do 
 in New York; it's just annoying that there's this sudden drop in graphical quality the second you 
 get out of the jungle.  

          Here we find a group of PC users who tried to play the 'gamer's edition' on a sub-optimal 
 PC. We weren't kidding about those load times.     

  The audio in King Kong might just be its best feature. The voice work from the film cast, as well 
 as the remaining actors, is excellent. Jack Black really nails that egotistical, self-absorbed 
 attitude, and Naomi Watts plays the perfect damsel in distress. You don't get much Adrien Brody 
 dialogue, but what's there is fine. The sounds of the beasts are what really drive the point home, 
 however. When Kong starts beating his chest and lets out a roar, you feel it in every part of your 
 body, especially if you have a good surround sound setup. Of course, it helps that the game uses 
 a great blurring visual effect whenever the roars of Kong and other creatures reach peak levels, 
 but the recording quality itself is really amazing. Even when things aren't loud, you get some 
 great background effects. The rumbles of thunderclouds, the sounds of creatures moving through 
 the brush and chirping away off in the distance, the patter of rain against the rocks, and even 
 the heavy breathing sounds of Jack as he runs as fast as he can through the island's perils -- this 
 is top-quality effects work. The game features a full orchestral score that seems like it could 
 easily be taken from the film. Whether or not it's original or recycled film score, it's used wonderfully, 
 ramping up and fading out at just the right times.  

  King Kong easily represents one of the better film-to-game translations released in recent years. 
 This is a tightly delivered adventure with barely a dull moment, and the ability to play as two 
 such wildly different protagonists as Jack Driscoll and King Kong is a real treat. It's just too 
 bad that the two characters' respective sections weren't more evenly balanced, and that the game 
 ends so soon and with a final level that feels tacked on. It's also disappointing that the PC version 
 of the game looks so much like the Xbox version, and that to get it to look more like the 360 version, 
 you have to be running the PC of the gods. But those problems aside, this is a game that immerses 
 fully you in a quality adventure, the likes of which will probably make you want to see Peter Jackson's 
 film all the more. It's the thing that so many licensed games shoot for, and so few achieve. King 
 Kong hits the mark, and hits it fierce.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (55 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: eclarkdog
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 16, 2008 12:31 am PT
Review:  It almost goes without saying that games based on movies are generally tragic epic fails. Most 
 are rush jobs pushed out to make a quick buck on or around the release of a huge blockbuster. The 
 only such game I can think of recently that was a success among critics and gamers is "Riddick". 
 Otherwise, you will find few to none on anyone's best game list.
  
  King Kong was indeed a double surprise for me. In a way, I was very surprised I actually bought 
 the game. For one, I'm not a big fan of FPS type games. The second reason has already been stated. 
 Anyway, I enjoyed the movie quite a bit and saw that the reviews for the game were quite favorable. 
 Also, the idea of actually playing a 3rd person Kong was appealing.
  
  The game certainly didn't disappoint. First of all, at the time, I thought the graphics and sound 
 were exceptional. There's quite a unique atmosphere to the game that I'd not experienced before. 
 I think it had something to do with the color palette used - it's a bit hard to describe. In addition, 
 there's a bit of a claustrophobic feeling in the FPS mode (as the Adrien Brody character) that 
 actually serves the game well.
  
  I thought the real interesting aspect to the game is that you often have to rely on what the island 
 provides you as weapons and tools to get out of jams. There are certainly guns that you can used, 
 but you don't always have the luxury. The game is challenging and at times a bit frustrating, but 
 this just makes it that more satisfying in the long run. Playing as Kong in 3rd person provides 
 a different gameplay experience.
  
  In short, I truly believe the developer's put a lot of time and effort into making a solid and 
 immersive gameplay experience as opposed to dumping some junk on the market. King Kong is a worthy 
 gaming experience for any action adventure fan or fan of the movie. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dmbowers98
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 7, 2008 5:17 pm PT
Review:  The actual gameplay begins right after reaching the island. You will be seeing everything from 
 Jack's perspective. Storms come and waters rage, and the next thing you know, you're waking up 
 on the beach extremely confused and wondering what in the hell those screams are coming from the 
 island's wilderness. The first five to ten minutes of the game you won't want to move, you'll just 
 sit there and look around, trying to figure out what's what.
  
  There will be a lot of adventuring and sightseeing in King Kong, mainly because there is nothing 
 to grab your attention from the environment and monsters you face. There are no gauges of any kind; 
 you will track your health with the screen effect red flash when you get hurt. In cases like this, 
 you'll have to get away from fights and actions to heal up if possible. Another hit while you're 
 flashing and you're a goner, kind of like the old school arcade games. Ammo can be kept up with 
 verbal cues and hints from Jack. When reloading he will let you know if there's enough ammo or 
 not.
  
  While you can keep weapons you like, you will only be able to hold one gun at a time and you have 
 a limited weapon carrying ability. Unlike many other games, the ammo pick up in King Kong is pretty 
 sensible and really could happen. You only have a set supply of ammo, and if you run out, too bad. 
 You'll just have to improvise.
  
  No matter who or what you're fighting, the combat in King Kong is extremely satisfying. Weapons 
 are lethal and deadly and it's relatively easy to hit your targets dead on. There aren't any scopes 
 to use on weapons, but they really aren't even necessary or needed. Not that the game is made to 
 be easy, but there just isn't the clutter of things like that around, which is great.
  
  Monsters and creatures on are massive and ferocious. Everything on the island is huge, a bigger 
 version of anything you've ever encountered before and you can't make them mad, they're mad to 
 begin with. Some of the animals you'll encounter include dinosaurs, packs of huge scorpions, and 
 giant millipedes. These creatures won't be happy you're on their ground and they'll attack you 
 in packs. Some of them can't even be killed; you just have to hope you can distract them enough 
 to get away.
  
  The puzzles in the game are very thought provoking and challenging. For example you'll have to 
 find certain things in order to open doors or clear a pathway. Okay, so maybe their not all that 
 challenging and thoughtful, but they do add a level of interest. The game is laid out so that it 
 is easy to figure out where you're going and the AI leaders are smart enough to know the right 
 path to take. Even though it's simple, its pretty cool stuff.
  
  Visuals in King Kong are exactly what you'd expect to find if you're deserted on a jungle island. 
 Everything is dark and gloomy. The creatures move realistically and are designed very well. There 
 is fog everywhere and this jungle is made to look like the most dangerous thing you will ever see. 
 The graphics in New York aren't near that of the jungle, but luckily you don't have to spend much 
 time there. 
  
  Voice over from the actors may well be the best thing about King Kong. It is absolutely excellent. 
 Jack Black, Naomi Watts, and Adrien Brody do an excellent job of portraying their respective characters. 
 The sounds of the monsters and beasts are superb as well. When King Kong roars it will put shivers 
 up your spine.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: biggest_loser
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 22, 2008 3:03 pm PT
Review:  People over the years have criticised movie to videogame adaptations as pure cash grabs only designed 
 as a marketing ploy for the film. Released conveniently close to the picture, King Kong perfectly 
 emulates this perception of movie-game tie-ins. It is a lazy, awfully repetitive sell-out that 
 left me quite disappointed even though I adored the film. 
  
  Right from the beginning, the game shuffles through a few snippets of film footage that ends up 
 leaving you on Skull Island.
  It is surprising that this is the only moment you get to see clips from the movie given that games 
 like Enter The Matrix have their entire narrative constructed from film footage. 
  
  Upon Skull Island you're thrust in control of Jack Driscoll (Adrien Brody) from a FPS perspective. 
 There is no choice of playing Kong first; you must wait till later in the game for his arrival. 
 What surprised me most about King Kong was the way in which it completely strayed from the movie. 
 Now we're not talking a few additional scenes here, it was like a completely different version, 
 though the main objective is still to rescue Ann. 
  
  Quite often you wont be alone in your adventures. At times you'll be amongst many of the characters 
 from the film like Denham and Jimmy. What's great is that the film stars voice their characters. 
 No fill-ins here! What isn't so good is that the dialogue is too heavily scripted. At times Hayes 
 would call out "Hurry up Jimmy!" yet Jimmy was in front. It's a minor break to the otherwise excellent 
 immersion. We never get to see any of Jack Driscoll apart from the weapon he's holding. There isn't 
 even an onscreen interface.
  
  For as long as your playing as him you are very much that character. Your only tools of destruction 
 here are spears and the occasional firearm such as a sniper rifle, Thompson machinegun, pistol 
 and shotgun. 
  
  Kong the Ape himself on the other hand is viewed from a third person and is all about button bashing. 
 The platform sections are simplistic but do manage to keep things moving. It is repetitive and 
 frustrating which also sums up most of the game play as well. To be fair there are some nice moments 
 here and there. There's the stunning stampede of brontosauruses and also your first encounter of 
 the islanders to look forward to. By the end of the game however, I was so bloody glad that I didn't 
 have to put one more stupid switch into a pole to open another bamboo gate, or have to set fire 
 to shrubs that a five year old could probably climb over. 
  
  The linearity of the game is insulting at times. It's the most claustrophobic island your ever 
 likely to see since there is only ever one single path or solution to the puzzles. In some games 
 linearity keeps the pace in check, here when you can't even fall off a cliff, it just feels like 
 a lousy design decision. 
  
  
  There are a few different kinds of opponents to tackle like dinosaurs, bats and slug-like creatures. 
 The AI here is perplexing in many ways. Creatures, if they see you, will rush up to you but if 
 you throw bait behind them they'll ignore you straight away and go for it. Maybe I'm being cruel. 
 Combat can be surprisingly tense especially when you're facing off against Tyrannosaurs. Part of 
 this could be to do with the health system, which keeps you quite vulnerable. It's not unlike Call 
 of Duty 2 oddly enough. After you've taken a bit of damage the screen flashes red, with dramatic 
 music playing and slow motion effects. You have to wait a few moments to regain your health. It 
 only becomes annoying when your still attempting to fight off your target. 
  
  What's also annoying is the occasional bugs you'll have to fend off. I had issues with Kong not 
 being able to lift objects out of the way and also saving the game. I'd hit save, then after losing 
 a mission I'd be taken back to a checkpoint where I'd have to replay that section all over again.
 
  
  Let's talk about the visuals. While it probably does depict a mysterious island nicely, this isn't 
 Far Cry. Its pretty bleak and dark as you travel across swamps and cliff faces. I wasn't particularly 
 impressed with the character models of your allies either. With games like Half-Life 2 completely 
 revolutionising the look of NPC with perfect lip synchronising and facial animations I thought 
 these guys were pretty flat. Having said that, some of the dinosaurs do look pretty sharp and scary, 
 while Kong has some attractive animations as he swings and climbs. 
  
  So I didn't have a great time with Peter Jackson's King Kong: The Official Game of the Movie (it's 
 a mouthful) . It's terribly linear, there isn't much on the relationship between Kong and Ann and 
 it's just so awfully repetitive. Hardcore fans may enjoy it though. There are some cool sequences, 
 a lovely music score and some great lines by Jack Black but for me PC gaming is capable of so much 
 more than junk like this. 
  
  For: 
  
  + Voiced by the cast of the film. 
  + Some good action sequences. 
  + Nice music. 
  + Immersive.
  
  
  Against: 
  
  Unbelievably 
 repetitive. 
  Bland character models. 
  Not particularly challenging. 
  Buggy and linear. 
  
  Verdict: 
  
  A disappointing effort after the sensational film and 
 Ubisoft's track record. This is why they shouldn't make film to game adaptations. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ivory_soul
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 21, 2007 3:14 am PT
Review:  The Good: Great presentation, and "feel like the movie" experience, the movie cast is in there, 
 decent graphics
  
  The Bad: Too much Jack, not enough Kong, extremely short, linear to a fault
  
  I watched the 
 movie when it first came out now I'm late playing the game. While there is an Xbox 360 version 
 out this is NOT a next-gen game mind you. The game does sport decent graphics but now in 2007 they 
 feel pretty dated and there are a lot of collision detection issues and the game is very... green. 
 While you spend 70% of the time playing as Jack you wish you could play as Kong more. There are 
 a decent variety of enemies such as giant centipedes, bats, T-Rex, raptors, crabs and so forth 
 you just wish there were more. When you play as Jack you in a first person perspective and there 
 are no health bars, no ammo meters just you and your instincts. Ubisoft made it this way so the 
 game feels more cinematic like the movie and it works. I was surprised how well you can aim with 
 the spears and guns without a reticle and it's very easy to do. Playing as Kong, though, is the 
 best part. You are in a 3rd person POV and the camera sweeps around dramatically while you beat 
 up giant T-Rex and fend of dozens of bats. There are moments where you run along giant cliff sides 
 and swing on huge pillars. While this is good and all it does get repetitive and it's the same 
 thing over and over. The game isn't very well paced and there aren't any clips from the movie at 
 all. This made things a bit disappointing but then again that's the whole "feel like a movie" experience. 
 While Ubisoft did a good job in the short time they had it could have been a lot better. The game 
 also ends very abruptly and it feels like they took huge shortcuts. Despite all this you'll get 
 a kick out of the game on any console and it'll sure to please the movie fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dark_prince2007
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 17, 2007 6:44 am PT
Review:  Play as man or beast in Peter Jackson's King Kong: The Official Game of the Movie. You can be King 
 Kong or Jack Driscoll as you follow a story based on the movie. Peter Jackson, the director of 
 the 2005 movie, also took an active role in developing the game, which expands upon the movie's 
 storyline, adding new creatures and locations. The game employs a cinematic style that makes the 
 game more immersive and less like a traditional video game. n this epic adventure, you will experience 
 the fateful legend of Kong from the perspective of both man and beast. Survive Skull Island as 
 unwitting hero Jack Driscoll in first-person shooting action, and unleash the staggering power 
 of the 25-foot-tall King Kong in third-person action sequences. Use everything in the jungle to 
 your advantage, exploiting the natural food chain of the prehistoric predators and grabbing objects 
 from the environment to kill those hunting you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vufor
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 21, 2007 1:42 am PT
Review:  Recently got King Kong game, absolutly amazing and brilliant lay out of the movie scences. Fantastic 
 gameplay and dangerous path.
  
  Excelent creation of the Ubisoft team, this guy really doing good!
  
  Right about the game:
 
  
  It is not that superb graphics like in Lara Croft: The legends, but still good enough to impress. 
 Actually the game it self is survival game and the skull island is the place where you actually 
 need to survive instead of walk around and enjoy sightiening. Yes that is why now I am trying to 
 complete the game and see all the beautiness of the island in Extra menu content. But I think it 
 is not good enough to became aware of everything that surounds you. That's why I am planing to 
 walk through the game second time just for fun and see all the amazing creations around me. The 
 jungle is one of the most impressive game environments according to my thoughts and it makes game 
 look good and makes you fell your self in wild. So, adding other stuf to it, will creat an impressive 
 survival game that you will definitelly enjoy.
  
  From sound point of view, it is a bit furistrating that you here true jungle sense when you actually 
 facing with some of its creatures, but other time it is just a bit dead silence, Do you know what 
 i am getting at. Well not a big deal coz you really dont want to hear all the creepy sound coming 
 around you. So not too bad....
  
  Gameplay, Right like that stuff with spear, you know it is sort of natural stuff that, what happend 
 if you wouldn't have a machinegun and all that sort of stuff, and here you go brilliant ancient 
 weapon that is quite enough to kill freaky creatures which awaits you in all corners of your deangerous 
 path.
  
  So far I have completed it for only 14% and now stuck with big flying pteradaktil that wants to 
 tear apart Carl, so will see how it goes.
  
  Enjoy your game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: malester
Rating: 5.8
Date: Nov 13, 2006 5:19 pm PT
Review:  Why this game got so much hype is beyond me, only good thing about this game is jack blacks in 
 it (i think thats his name) well from SS's the game looks decent, playing it is whole different 
 story, textures blow balls. Sounds are quite alright tho. You fight alot of large crabs and centapeds 
 in the begining for some odd reason, uses alot of comp resources so it does twitch alot. Walking 
 through caves i found it hard to tell which way i was going. Controls blow. I played for about 
 an hour and then deleted it. This game feels like it was made for people who dont play video games. 
 like for a 4 year old or a 70 year old who was old when the original movie was released. Apparently 
 the game picks up tho when you get to play as Kong, i shoulda cheated to get that part 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadibm
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 28, 2006 5:35 am PT
Review:  Ubisoft has a quite remarkable something about their games that makes playing a Game a unique experience
 
  
  King Kong is no different
  
  Jack is quite the brave character that fits right in
  
  Being King Kong is just as much satisfying, now you can be one of those big strong animals 
 that fears nothing
  
  The Island is really amazing with all the climbing, long grass, narrow paths Weapons are just right; 
 you could use a combination of guns and spheres to make it a bit challenging
  
  Graphics are great and sound is perfect, not to mention the easy control of both Jack and King 
 Kong 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JOE714
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 6, 2006 6:55 am PT
Review:  Some first-person shooters add suspense to their overarching survival element using more than limited 
 resources and overwhelming opposition. The question of whether the player is skilled enough to 
 cross through a darkened room with his limbs intact is built into the games mood as much as its 
 mechanics. Doom and The Suffering are excellent examples of good survival horror titles; in both 
 games, an unfortunate plot twist is just as likely to halt the protagonists brain function as 
 outmatched skills. In other shooters, perseverance is pretty much a foregone conclusion, so the 
 challenge lies in just how much finesse the player can apply to the inevitable dispatch of hundreds 
 of enemies; Serious Sam, Sin, and any other game in which the glib hero never once doubts his chances 
 at survival focus more on frags than fear.
  
  Peter Jacksons King Kong is a detailed and engaging struggle primarily in the former vein, in 
 which the player, as the movies Jack Driscoll, is never more than one step ahead of his own demise. 
 However, the player is periodically given a chance to rumble in the jungle as Kong himself, and 
 those sequences are more closely related to the gleeful destruction found in Painkiller. Combining 
 the high-level intensity of Jacks story with Kongs cathartic fits of aggression makes for a perfect 
 mix of roller-coaster moments.
  
  While its true that the game is very short, there are few gaps in Jacks portion of the story; 
 the player sticks by him from the moment he wakes up on Skull Island until just before Kongs capture. 
 The moments in between contain a near-constant assault on the senses, primarily due to the designers 
 ingenious environmental design. With lush tropical visuals and astonishingly effective sound cues, 
 I found myself sweeping my mouse back and forth quite often, trying to take in the living jungle 
 full of waterfalls and fields of mist with layered particle effects. It was during these ponderous 
 moments that a millipede or venatosaurus would lunge, the latter dragging my blood-hazed line of 
 sight to the ground with my legs in full view inside of the creatures gnashing jaws.
  
  To avoid such a fate, Jack must keep a close eye on his ammo reserves. Once the pistol and Thompson 
 rounds are all used up, Jacks fate depends entirely on splintered bones scavenged from animal 
 carcasses or, if hes lucky, a relatively well-honed spear. Brushfires play a huge offensive and 
 defensive role (although they tend to ruin my poor old machines framerate) and even create natural 
 barriers similar to the natives levered doors. Kong must also clear a few overgrown passages with 
 the help of his new friend Ann. In fact, I appreciated those cooperative puzzle sequences all the 
 more as an expansion on the beauty/beast companionship that was portrayed so well in Jacksons 
 movie.
  
  Jackson and company also did a great job of portraying Skull Island  where even the crickets and 
 tubeworms can make a snack out of a burly fellow  as the most dangerous place on the planet. Ubisofts 
 designers place several of the same monsters in Jacks path, from the impressive V-Rex eating machines 
 that were prominently featured, to the scorpions that only appeared in one brief scene, and even 
 further to the stealthy swamp critters that were created just for the game. Each oversized dinosaur 
 and bug boasts a nice level of cunning, as theyll run from fire, circle deftly around obstacles, 
 and select their prey according to convenience (which is how Jack can often distract the creatures 
 with a sacrificial bat or dragonfly) .
  
  If Jack can survive long enough to top the next rise or reach the end of a river rafting adventure, 
 Kong steps up for a comparatively relaxing episode of leaping, climbing, swatting, and crushing. 
 The simian sequences are very impressive in their scale, in terms of both the massive trees and 
 cliffs along which Kong can clamber and the brutal thrashing he inflicts on anything that dares 
 to threaten his girlfriend. The waterfall-fed valleys and, later, the cavernous streets of New 
 York can give players an essential break from the bated-breath frights of Jack Driscolls struggle. 
 This title is an exciting and well-paced companion to Peter Jacksons film. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: buster4
Rating: 1.6
Date: Sep 26, 2006 11:49 pm PT
Review:  There is not much to say about this game, I am so passionate about how much I hate this game. This 
 game is EXTREAMLY linear the aiming system of the guns really sucks. The graphics are appalling 
 to say the least but for a game that is based on a movie its not on the VERY bottom of my list. 
 I found this game as apart of a bundle in my graphics card's box. I have to say I could not get 
 rid of these disks fast enough I was just about willing to pay someone to take these disks off 
 my hands. This game is a total waste of time and money.
  
  This is my honest opinion of this game maybe I'm just being overly cynical but this game is totally 
 not worth the DVD it is copied on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: taco58
Rating: 3.5
Date: Sep 4, 2006 9:25 am PT
Review:  .This game is too easy I was able to complete it in 1 hour. I played it on hard mode with only 
 the hand gun and Kong's fits of course. If you think you can beat my time then tell me. This game 
 lame, boring and pathetic. The person that made King Kong loves to this appoints us. And why can't 
 we see Jacks face? Sniper is too weak , shotgun is useless , machine gun is really useless , spears 
 are only good for burning plants , bones are useless . game not worth 20 dollars , game not good. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nightharvest
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 22, 2006 5:38 am PT
Review:  Peter Jackson's King Kong : The Official Game of the Movie (King Kong) mixes two tried and tested 
 styles of gameplay against one of the more publicised movies of last year. A movie I am yet to 
 see. But it does provide a supreme level of production and a unique approach to gameplay in both 
 these modes - and once the game hits its stride, it really is an entertaining romp through Skull 
 Island. However, the game is not only over fairly quickly but it comes to a screaming halt that 
 just doesn't feel right.
  
  King Kong is based on the movie of the same name. For a majority of the game you play in first 
 person mode as Jack Driscoll, an up and coming writer who has been recruited by wacko producer 
 Carl Denham for a movie on the mysterious Skull Island. However, nothing goes right and before 
 too long you are shipwrecked on the island with Carl, aspiring Actress Ann Darrow, the ultimate 
 pragmatist Hayes and the naive Jimmy. Once on this island it is all about survival, as you defend 
 yourself in some serious combat with its prehistoric inhabitants. You are also on the trail of 
 the mighty Kong (once he has Ann is his furry mitts) which leads you through a tour of the island 
 and its many and varied environments.
  
  However, the story of Jack is broken up by some chapters where in third person mode you play as 
 Kong. This is essentially a good ol' fashioned beat 'em up against the same inhabitants of Skull 
 Island as you also protect Ann from harm. You have a combination of attacks and moves and you'll 
 find yourself going into 'rage' mode just for the sake of it, as it is pretty damn impressive. 
 There is also a very short (and I mean 'very') section of the game where you engage in a rampage 
 through New York before the obligatory ending as per the script of the movie.
  
  The graphics are, on the whole, pretty impressive. Skull Island is brought to life with vivid visuals 
 and with a variety of detailed environments. This is one creepy island and there is a lot of attention 
 to detail. The hazy mountains, the dense forest, the foreboding cliff faces, the stunning ravines, 
 the impressive building structures and the paths through the caves and rivers all provide a quality 
 atmosphere. The character models are also quite superb. The people certainly look like the actors 
 that play them and the inhabitants of Skull Island are wonderfully created. Both large and small 
 they are fearsome looking and when you see them, you know its trouble. And just wait until you 
 see the Brontosaurus pack march through the valley - quite stunning. However, some of the close 
 up models (especially the weapons, the grass and the water) are noticeably lower in quality  and 
 New York looks rushed  as if it was put together in an afternoon. But Skull Island is where most 
 of the action is, and the graphical presentation hits the mark.
  
  The sound is exceptional. I am sure I annoyed the neighbours a couple of times with this game belting 
 out of the speakers. Whilst the music is suitably atmospheric, it is the sound effects and the 
 in-game ambience that is of the highest order. The creatures not only look fearsome, but sound 
 as such and Kong bellows out the mightiest of roars. The ambient sounds in the game as you go through 
 the island are both creepy and atmospheric, right down to the breathing of your character as he 
 runs through a cave or through the forest. The voice acting of the characters also works well, 
 and gives them the personality you expect. Whether playing with headphones or speakers  this is 
 a game to play with the volume up.
  
  The gameplay is almost classic, but just falls short of the mark with a few annoying issues. Firstly, 
 the game does take some time to get going. I personally did not get immersed in the game until 
 about one quarter of the way through (and it was looking at a score of 5.5 or 6 at that stage) . 
 While there is a need to set the scene, the game did not have my undivided attention straight away. 
 However, once you realise that the chase is on and that there is some serious challenges up ahead, 
 the gameplay takes over.
  
  A strong feature of the game is there absence of a heads-up display. There is no information on 
 the screen to complicate your view. It is as if you are in the movie. You get the information you 
 need through verbal prompts. Jack will tell himself when he needs to reload or if he about to run 
 out of ammo. You can also tell when your health is low as the screen becomes blurry and flashes 
 a sickly shade of red. When this happens you know that one more enemy attack will result in death. 
 Your friends will also scream out when they are in trouble and you need to keep them alive.
  
  In first person mode  the play is similar to most other FPS games, but the weapons used and 
 enemies encountered do provide a refreshing perspective. The creatures, when focused on you provide 
 some competitive gameplay as you try and spear them javelin style or shoot them down with the pistols, 
 shotguns, Tommy-Guns or rifles that are dropped by the seaplane at various locations. Ammunition 
 is not infinite, so your shots must count. And you know you are in trouble when you have a Ventasaurus 
 coming at you and all you hear is the click of your weapon, signifying that you are out of ammunition 
  and that usually starts a mad moment of dodging, ducking and weaving as you frantically search 
 for a spear. 
  
  There is also a puzzle element to the game. This usually involves finding handles to open the large 
 fortress doors on Skull Island, or finding a fire source to burn away some bushes. At times you 
 also need to bait some of your enemies away from a passage or an object. While the puzzles are 
 not hard, they do provide an alternative gameplay style and are suitably placed throughout the 
 game.
  
  While the creatures of Skull Island are fierce and attack with passion, the AI system does have 
 a major flaw. There is a food chain system, where the creatures will eat each other  however 
 it is implausible that a huge dinosaur will cease its attention on you or disengage from combat 
 to go and devour a dead bat. This happens quite a few times, and whilst it makes the game a bit 
 easier, it doesnt make sense. 
  
  The gameplay does compliment the graphical environment and the presentation. It is obvious that 
 Skull Island is not a safe place to be and there is a suitable level of tension throughout the 
 game. You do expect an enemy attack at any time, and they can occur in any of the environments. 
 It's useful to always at least have a spear in hand. King Kong also has some excellent defensive 
 pieces. There are instances where you need to protect your colleagues from attacks while they cross 
 a river, open a door, or in one instance while Ann climbs a pedestal to call Kong for assistance. 
 These are well done and not protecting your colleagues does result in failure.
  
  All-in-all the first person mode of the game  which is the majority - provides a competitive and 
 enjoyable gameplay experience.
  
  However, where this game really shines is playing as King Kong. This is done in third person mode 
 and is essentially a combat spectacular, as you roar and belt your way through opponents. You have 
 a few attacks, combinations and finishing moves at your disposal  but the highlight is going into 
 rage mode, where with a few rotations of the mouse wheel Kong will beat his chest a let rip with 
 a mighty roar that distorts the screen. Carnage ensues. Its basic but its hugely satisfying when 
 you rip apart a huge dinosaur or other enemy creatures. There are also puzzle elements in this 
 mode, involving Ann assisting you to clear paths, and while there is no skill involved with swinging 
 through the forest, it is an impressive sight to watch Kong as he does. 
  
  The confusing camera angle is a genuine criticism as it is easy to become disoriented. Also, the 
 New York segment is brief, appears hastily put together and is a significant anti-climax to what 
 has been a game that built up tension and a sense of purpose through quality production and professionalism. 
 Despite this, being King Kong is without a doubt a highlight of the game, its just a pity it doesnt 
 happen more often.
  
  King Kong is a very short game, and the ending is a bit too sudden. I completed the game in between 
 six and seven hours, which is shorter than some add-ons and expansion packs for full titles. There 
 is no multiplayer option and a default difficulty level only.
  
  However, the King Kong 'extras' are a saving grace. I am usually not taken with 'extra' products 
 and unlockables, but in King Kong it is presented in a challenging and rewarding way. Essentially, 
 once completing the game, you can go back through the missions and obtain a score. Let's face - 
 we all love scores and we all love to see big numbers clock up against our names. Once you exceed 
 certain scores, 'bonus' material is unlocked. This is certainly worth doing as the final unlockable 
 item is an 'alternative' ending to the game which is an enjoyable chapter, resulting in a happy 
 ending and very well produced closing cut scene. There is also a very good interview with Peter 
 Jackson about the making of the game. The thing with Peter Jackson is that when I see him I don't 
 see the mighty producer who made The Lord of The Rings trilogy and King Kong, I see the producer 
 who made 'Bad Taste' and 'Meet the Feebles'. C'mon Peter, be a good sport and commission Ubisoft 
 to make a game of the Bad Taste movie! 
  
  All in all, the unlockables give the game an extra two hours or so of game time. However, even 
 with this it still clocks in at less than ten hours.
  
  I purchased King Kong for $AUD 20. It was on sale and I think that at that price, it is good value 
 for money. However if I had purchased it for $AUD 70 when it was first released my value rating 
 would be down a couple of notches at least. As good as the game is to play, it isn't long enough 
 to demand a full price.
  
  King Kong has enough production value, quality gameplay and personality to warrant purchase - if 
 the price is right. The fact that it is based on the movie is really neither here nor there - it 
 stands alone as a meaningful contribution to the gaming market. It is short and has some annoying 
 flaws, but at its best it is superbly produced adventure and an entertaining gaming experience.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fahim_zak
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 15, 2006 11:12 pm PT
Review:  Befor I bought the game I played the demo. Believe me the demo is cool. So the main game is bound 
 to be better and it is. The presentation is good. The sound effects are great. If you have good speakers 
 you will feel like watching the original movie in theater. Gameplay is bit tougher at times. Overall 
 graphics is nice unless you have a old machine. It may take a little bit of time to learn the gameplay. 
 I liked this game. Hope you guys will like it. Thanx to Ubisoft. If you still stay confused I suggest 
 you to download the demo which is not more than 300 mb and play it. I bet you will like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: demonhunter48
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 20, 2006 1:23 am PT
Review:  After seeing Peter Jacksons remake of King Kong on the big screen, I simply couldnt wait to play 
 the game version. The very idea of being Kong, or sneaking through the misty jungles of Skull Island 
 had me very excited. 
  
  After navigating through the very clear and tidy menus, I started my adventure. The opening cinematic 
 is beautiful in itself, involving a rowing boat being lowered into a choppy sea, rain everywhere. 
 Even in these cutscenes, the player is allowed to have a look around using the mouse.
  
  Being partly first-person (when playing as Jack Driscoll) and third-person (when playing as Kong) , 
 the game offers two very different perspectives on Kongs kingdom of Skull Island, which is a stunningly 
 beautiful setting, trees swaying in the fading light as the sun sets over the jungle canopy. 
 
  
  When playing as Kong, players will be able to pull off all the breathtaking moves that Kong does 
 in the movie, from breaking a dinosaurs jaw, to throwing Ann Darrow over your shoulder and swinging 
 to safety. 
  
  In the first-person mode, players control Jack Driscoll, and have fierce weaponry at their disposal, 
 from machine-guns to the natives spears. That said, the game is not all hack and slash shooting. 
 Many elements of the game will call for stealth and problem solving. For example, you may need 
 to find a fire, in order to burn down some bushes and grant passage to the next area, or hide from 
 several predators, whilst trying to find a door handle. 
  
  True, the game is better on the XBOX 360, graphics wise, but gameplay triumphs on the PC, if you 
 take into account the fact that more that half the game is in first-person. 
  
  King Kong is a rare game. Theres chest-thumping, ground-shaking action from the start, but you 
 still get that nervous, heart-pounding feeling whenever you turn a corner. All this combined with 
 amazing graphics and a fitting soundtrack, makes King Kong one of the most impressive games out 
 there.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: imrankn
Rating: 7.4
Date: Apr 23, 2006 6:48 am PT
Review:  A good game with nice gameplay and good graphics. The game saving system is very poor, u have to 
 play the whole level to save. Nice graphics but some time the action is too fast so u dont have 
 time to see the beautiful work in the stages. So many times in the middle of a fight the game struck 
 and i have to start the level from the begining. There is no auto save feature so do remember to 
 save your game after playing a level or u have to play it again if u close it without saving. Controlling 
 Jack is a lot easier than controlling Kong. Playing Jack with keyboard and Kong with a analog controller 
 make things easy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brain20035
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 16, 2006 2:13 am PT
Review:  From the first moments of the game the thrill begins with (actually) strange creatures in different 
 sizes. The graphic is ordinary (i played the game on a 6600GT chip) . The sound is strong and the 
 action is absolutly new. As a 1st person shooter PJ's King Kong TOGOTM (!!!) brings tons of new 
 expiriences for u. The old 1st person games that we had played had a cross in the middle of the 
 screen which helped for a better aiming. but in PJ'sKKTOGOTM (!!!!!) there is no cross and also 
 your bullets r very limited so most of the times u'll have to use some sticks or bone clatters 
 to fight the creatures that are attacking u. this mainly amplifires the thrill in crowded areas. 
 the enviroments are designed pretty good and act as a rememberance of the Movie. Kong parts are 
 so thrilling too. jumping on trees and walls and fighting big creatures and chasing after Ann (the 
 girl who Kong loves) and etc.
  totally the style of Ubi Soft's games is so clearly visible in this game. this game will remind 
 u of the brothers in arms and the POP series.
  Finally PJ's hand is visible here too. great art!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fmafan3030
Rating: 4.1
Date: Mar 13, 2006 2:00 pm PT
Review:  Tis game flat-out sucks, please dont buy this game, BECAUSE you will regret it hard. the graphics 
 are as the game is [Horibble] . King kong a game about being a 20-foot tall ape and a movie maker 
 with a machine gu This game is a waste of some
  one's time if. BUT. IF YOU WANT A GREAT FPS, STAY AWAY FROM THIS. But if your still not convinced 
 Let me explain. The first bad part of this game is the gamplay, then graphics, and last and least 
 the tilt. TRUST ME STAY AWAY FROM THIS RIP-OFF. Overall i give this game a jello-ish 4.1 But go 
 ahead see the movie. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: psplord980
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 18, 2006 11:06 am PT
Review:  Grade
  B (8.0)
  
  Good
  Its a bit more fun to play with a crew
  Playing the levels what weren't in the psp is awesome!
  Level design is beautiful
  There's 
 a Extra's Menu holy crap!
  Difficulty Setting are here which makes the game more fun
  
  Bad
  Game is still short... wtf
  Sometimes not having a crew is a good thing..
  Even though 
 there are so many levels some are pointless....
  The ending is such a dissapointment... your in NY for no more than 10 min.
  
  
  Closing Comments: 
 Now that i've played the portable and full version of Kong i can easily say this one is better... but 
 neither one is even close to perfection... The length of the game is badly hurts the games quality... But 
 the Turok stlye Jack play and the kicka** Kong play still makes this game successful.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lb003g0676
Rating: 6.3
Date: Jan 26, 2006 9:19 am PT
Review:  King Kong, the movie. 3 Hours of 'On the edge of your seat' action, and fun. And no sarcasm was 
 intended there. However, Peter Jackson is fantastic movie director, his conversions lack very much 
 fun. So? Well you get the alternate ending, you get to play the guy from the pianist and you get 
 to look at a pixelated Naomi Watts......... Then you get to play as Kong, that was fun.........
 
  
  What, you wanted more? Well the problem is, the rest of it is repetitive and boring. The missions 
 seem to repeat themselves, and go along the lines of this: Reach gate, find gate is blocked by 
 bushes, find spear, find fire to set spear alight, set alight to bushes, find key/stick to open 
 gate. Yep that's your mission. Or it's escape from the dinosaur, or the path is totally scripted. 
 
  
  But visuals can make a game better, it's true! However, King Kong on PC doesn't. I have no idea 
 why the next gen console graphics weren't used. It could have improves the game just that bit better. 
 The views are repetitive also. Usually being stuck in the Jungle. The sound mirrors this, and you 
 often kill several things at once, and it sounds like a mime, so unfortunately I won't recommend 
 this game. Looked good, but is very deceptive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Krusher222
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jan 25, 2006 6:59 am PT
Review:  Overall, the game is pretty fun. A little repetitive and mind numbing at times but nevertheless 
 what do expect from a movie related video game trying to stay true to the story line. I will agree 
 that they should have allowed more time as Kong; however playing Jacko was pretty fun. Sure there 
 could have been better ammo finds and shot-em up killing action; however even without the niceties 
 the game was pretty cool. While I prefer mainly strategy games the old Kong flicks brought out 
 the I have to have that game in me. Oh well, as I wait for LOTR II and Star Wars this silly grape 
 ape game will have to suffice! With that said, I give Kong and the developers an overall good grade 
 for really trying to create a good video game adaptation of the movie. When it hits $19.99, I recommend 
 everyone go out and buy/try it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Autaron
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jan 18, 2006 10:51 am PT
Review:  Peter Jackson's King Kong is actually pretty good. The graphics are okay and the gameplay is good 
 as well. However, the sound is really really good. You can see that they have really worked on 
 the voice acting and the music in the game. The sounds are so realistic and gives you the feeling 
 of being there in the game. 
  Playing King Kong in third person is pretty fun, but I would like him to be more furious though. 
 
  Although the game is fun it has some letdowns too. 
  The game is simply too short. I haven't really played it that much, 6 - 7 hours or so and I have 
 already completed the game. So all I can say is that if you are looking for a game that is just 
 plain fun, then try out King Kong. But if you are looking for a game with great graphics and amazingly 
 exiting gameplay then King Kong is probably not the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: terryprior
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 18, 2006 8:44 am PT
Review:  The actual gameplay begins right after reaching the island. You will be seeing everything from 
 Jacks perspective. Storms come and waters rage, and the next thing you know, youre waking up 
 on the beach extremely confused and wondering what in the hell those screams are coming from the 
 islands wilderness. The first five to ten minutes of the game you wont want to move, youll just 
 sit there and look around, trying to figure out whats what.
  There will be a lot of adventuring and sightseeing in King Kong, mainly because there is nothing 
 to grab your attention from the environment and monsters you face. There are no gauges of any kind; 
 you will track your health with the screen effect red flash when you get hurt. In cases like this, 
 youll have to get away from fights and actions to heal up if possible. Another hit while youre 
 flashing and youre a goner, kind of like the old school arcade games. Ammo can be kept up with 
 verbal cues and hints from Jack. When reloading he will let you know if theres enough ammo or 
 not.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DioXin_5
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 17, 2006 5:31 am PT
Review:  Peter Jackson (PJ) is slowly but surely becoming a name to reckon with. After making nearly a gazillion 
 dollars thanks to Frodo and his band of merry men, he set his sights on bringing back one of the 
 biggest apes known to mankind to the silver screen, and he s done a brilliant job of it. I caught 
 the movie a couple of weeks ago and it was by far one of the best movies I ve seen in 2005. The 
 special effects were mind blowing, the action was totally over-the-top, and even the emotional 
 angle used by PJ didn t feel out of place. Even though King Kong is a gigantic ape who falls in 
 love with a woman the size of his thumb, you can t help but empathize with him, hoping they live 
 together happily ever after. 
  Now since this is Hollywood, popular franchises have to be cashed in on. Keeping that tradition 
 alive, we now have Kong smashing his way into our PC s and consoles with his very own game. Even 
 though the game s not as good as the movie, it holds its ground amongst other action games today 
 and is one of the better movie-to-game adaptations out there. 
  
  I don t think I need to dwell into the story of the game since it is based on the movie but for 
 those who haven t seen it, it goes something like this: Gigantic ape falls in love with woman, 
 gigantic ape gets captured by greedy humans, ape escapes captivity, ape finds woman and shares 
 a few romantic moments atop the Empire State Building, ape gets shot down, woman is very sad. 
 
  
  In the game, you ll play as Kong and Jack Driscoll, a screen writer who along with Ann Darrow (Kong 
 s love interest) and an unsuspecting crew have been tricked by an ambitious film maker, Carl Denham 
 to film a movie on Skull Island, an island forgotten by time whose basic population consists of 
 psychotic locals, giant crabs, giant bugs and insects, a variety of dinosaurs and King Kong. This 
 isn t a tourist destination you d want to visit anytime soon. 
  
  Playing as Jack will grant you a first person perspective of Skull Island with a descent arsenal 
 at your disposal that ll consist of basic firearms like pistols, shotguns, Tommy guns etc. One 
 crucial point to be noted here is that ammunition is extremely limited in this game; so try and 
 make sure every bullet meets its mark. Since ammunition is scarce you could always ask one of your 
 companions for their weapons, i. e. if they re carrying any. Developer Ubisoft has tried to make 
 the game as immersive as possible by doing away with generic FPS elements like the crosshair and 
 the health bar. If you re getting attacked, the screen will turn red, your vision will begin to 
 blur, your heart beat will increase and your hearing will begin to fade. Since there isn t any 
 HUD (heads up display) in the game at all you ll have to press a certain key to hear Jack inform 
 you about the amount of magazines you re carrying. 
  
  Once you re completely out of ammo, you ll have to rely on more traditional weapons like sticks 
 and bones of dead animals to fight the monstrosities lurking all over Skull Island and that is 
 where the game gets intense. Since you re a puny human you obviously cannot go head to head with 
 dinosaurs and giant millipedes, so you ll have to be cunning and think like a hunter. For example, 
 if you come across a pack of dinosaurs and aren t in the mood to become their lunch, find a stick, 
 skewer a bug or a small insect on it and throw it somewhere near them. The prospect of fresh meat 
 will distract them momentarily creating a quick window of escape for you. While this tactic works 
 for most of the animals, there are a few who may not fall for these tricks. To kill these Einsteins, 
 you may have to set your stick on fire and try and burn them with it by throwing it at them or 
 lure them to a patch of dried grass using bait, and then torch the grass. While this is refreshing 
 from what most FPSs have to offer today, the overuse of this sort of primal gameplay gets extremely 
 monotonous by the time you re done skewering centipede number 999. 
  
  Games Reviews 
  King Kong 
  Avinash Bali Email Print 
  Jan 14, 2006 
  Looks excellent, Sounds brilliant, 
 Using sticks to kill dinosaurs is an interesting mechanic, The absence of a HUD is an immersing 
 experience. 
  
  
  Short, You hardly play as Kong, Segments involving Jack tend to get monotonous, No replay value, 
 Frame rates take a hit while playing as Kong. 
  
  
  Rating : 
  
  
  
  Page 1 - Donkey Kong Page 2 - Game-play Page 3 - Beauty and the Beast Page 4 - Screen Shots Page 
 5 - More Screen Shots Next Page 
  
  Playing as Jack will grant you a first person perspective of Skull Island with a descent arsenal 
 at your disposal that ll consist of basic firearms like pistols, shotguns, Tommy guns etc. One 
 crucial point to be noted here is that ammunition is extremely limited in this game; so try and 
 make sure every bullet meets its mark. Since ammunition is scarce you could always ask one of your 
 companions for their weapons, i. e. if they re carrying any. Developer Ubisoft has tried to make 
 the game as immersive as possible by doing away with generic FPS elements like the crosshair and 
 the health bar. If you re getting attacked, the screen will turn red, your vision will begin to 
 blur, your heart beat will increase and your hearing will begin to fade. Since there isn t any 
 HUD (heads up display) in the game at all you ll have to press a certain key to hear Jack inform 
 you about the amount of magazines you re carrying. 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  Once you re completely out of ammo, you ll have to rely on more traditional weapons like sticks 
 and bones of dead animals to fight the monstrosities lurking all over Skull Island and that is 
 where the game gets intense. Since you re a puny human you obviously cannot go head to head with 
 dinosaurs and giant millipedes, so you ll have to be cunning and think like a hunter. For example, 
 if you come across a pack of dinosaurs and aren t in the mood to become their lunch, find a stick, 
 skewer a bug or a small insect on it and throw it somewhere near them. The prospect of fresh meat 
 will distract them momentarily creating a quick window of escape for you. While this tactic works 
 for most of the animals, there are a few who may not fall for these tricks. To kill these Einsteins, 
 you may have to set your stick on fire and try and burn them with it by throwing it at them or 
 lure them to a patch of dried grass using bait, and then torch the grass. While this is refreshing 
 from what most FPSs have to offer today, the overuse of this sort of primal gameplay gets extremely 
 monotonous by the time you re done skewering centipede number 999. 
  
  
  
  
  After completing a few missions as Jack, you ll be given control of Kong and that my compadres 
 is when the party truly begins. All the creatures you were running from as Jack can now be **** 
 and put into their place (six feet under the ground) . Gigantic bats annoying you? Swat them like 
 flies. Dinosaurs trying to bite you? Break their jaw. It s moments like these that make you truly 
 feel the power of Kong as you unleash your authority on the denizens of Skull Island. Moving around 
 as Kong is a bit Prince of Persia-ish as you get to wall run across mountains, climb mountains 
 and swing from trees (who surprisingly can take his weight) . Unfortunately you ll hardly play as 
 Kong though the game which is ironical since the game is about him. Before you know it, you re 
 back as Jack skewering millipedes and running for your life. Lame! 
  
  Visually, King Kong is extremely impressive. Skull Island has been recreated right to the very 
 last tree branch extremely authentically. Sunlight filters through leaves, blades of grass sway 
 gently in the wind, dense foliage covers the ground to such an extent it affects visibility and 
 ruins of an ancient civilization in the form of broken structures are scattered all over the Island. 
 Facial animation is top notch with most of the characters looking extremely realistic especially 
 Jack, Ann and Denham. We tested this game on an AMD 3200+ with a Gainward 6600 card and a Gig of 
 RAM and were comfortably getting 40-45 FPS constantly at 1024 x 768 resolution. However during 
 parts when you play as Kong, and you re embroiled in a battle with a few dinosaurs the frame rate 
 tends to dip substantially. 
  
  Not to be outdone by visuals, the audio department is stellar in its own way. All the snarls and 
 the roars of the creatures sound extremely menacing and when any of the large creatures like Kong 
 or dinosaurs roar near you, the entire screen starts blurring (very cool effect) . The three pivotal 
 characters Denham, Jack and Ann have been voiced by Jack Black, Adrien Brody and Naomi Watts (who 
 must have had a real sore throat because the woman screams like a Banshee) respectively and they 
 do a fine job of it. Ambient music is just fine and picks up as and when danger approaches. 
  
  In the end, King Kong is a short yet enjoyable game that does get a bit monotonous (as Jack) 
 at times. Even though you hardly play as Kong in the game, it has still managed to successfully 
 capture all the excitement and emotion of the movie. However with no multiplayer, monotonous gameplay 
 and zero replayability value, King Kong is mainly for those who prefer style over substance or 
 for those who really loved the movie. 
  
  Minimum System Requirements: 
  
  Windows 98/SE/2000/XP 
  CPU: 1.0GHz Pentium III class 
  RAM: 256MB 
  Video: 64MB DirectX 
 8.1 
  HDD Space: 1.5GB minimum 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bluestinger006
Rating: 1.6
Date: Jan 14, 2006 4:58 am PT
Review:  what is this ?
  
  the movie was good but the game is .. what can I say ? 
  
  Awfull Graphics , I don't know who did the programming or how he did it but it's VERY BAD .
  
 Game play is very boaring and the levels is very much similar to each other its all about the green 
 colour ( I think its green!!) and I don't know why is the game colours looks like that , after 
 some time of playing you 'll feel that its time for you to make a pair of glasses or there is something 
 wrong with your monitor , and when a monster hit you the screen get blury ( I dont know if I said 
 it right) and turned red and the sound goes and replaced by a music , and that makes you almost 
 blind and deaf and makes you look around by turning right and left like an idiot to Know what hit 
 you or where it is, and you won't know .
  
  in my openion its worthless, do not buy it or rent it .
  
  sorry I'm not too good in english 
 , so there may be some mistakes . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mclazyj
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jan 13, 2006 9:08 am PT
Review:  You look out into the clearing and feel a bit apprehensive. You feel an unnerving sense of something 
 dark that lies ahead. You walk down the steps of the ruins, hearing the rustling of debris falling 
 down around you. Something is watching you. Suddenly, a dinosaur comes out at you fangs exposed. 
 You reach for a spear nearby as the beast charges you. How can you possibly survive this island.
 
  
  This is one of the scenes that you will come across in Peter Jacksons King Kong: The Official 
 Game of the Movie. First off, the game will now be referenced as King Kong, because there is no 
 way I am typing the acronym PJKKTOGOTM. King Kong traces the path of the movie from beginning to 
 the end. I have not seen the movie, so I am not sure how faithful it is to the movie, but it did 
 not hinder my game experience in anyway.
  
  The game is a port of the console version, but does have some graphical upgrades. You play through 
 the game as two people. First is Jack Driscoll, an aspiring writer that has been picked by Carl 
 Denham to help script out a movie. I dont know the reason why they are going to Skull Island to 
 film the movie, but they decide that they are going there. Of course they almost crash and then 
 bad weather strands them on the island.
  
  At this point, you start to notice the nice graphics in the game. The backgrounds are very detailed 
 and the beasts look amazing, especially King Kong. Graphics as a whole are quite nicely done. The 
 shaking of the screen when a V-Rex or Kong bellow or rage, to the fog effects and weather effects 
 of the game, it is all a blast to look at and watch. Problem for me was that the game was moving 
 so fast in the beginning rushing you from place to place, that you did not get to appreciate the 
 lush look of the game. But if you have a good graphics card, you will be treated by a great looking 
 game.
  
  The interface of the game also bears some mention. There is none. There is no health meter, weapons 
 screen, ammo screen at all. You do get cues, like Jack telling you how much ammo you have left 
 after each reload, or the screen flashing a crimson color after each hit. It is a real feat to 
 pull off, but I have to say that I did not miss having the HUD and it actually made for a more 
 cinematic and immersive experience.
  
  The game plays out in a first person style while you play as Jack Driscoll and the mission structures 
 are fairly linear. Monsters come about at certain trigger points and disappear if you move back 
 from those trigger points. The levels are well designed and have a good flow to them, but as I 
 said earlier, the game seems to move rather briskly in the beginning. The pace however slows down 
 a bit when you get to the big guy. Thats right boys and girls, you get to play the Eighth Wonder 
 of the World, Kong.
  
  And it is a blast to play Kong. He is a powerhouse of an ape. And he will wreak absolute carnage 
 upon your enemies. Kong looks absolutely amazing and the art style that they used to create him 
 in the game was fantastic. His attacks were a bit quirky and I normally had to resort to a gamepad 
 in order to pull of the rage attacks, because I could not get them coordinated with my mouse. But 
 his levels start to slow down the game a bit and let you view in amazement at how the game looks. 
 Also, the Kong levels switch to a third person view which allows you view his visceral destruction 
 from a more abstract perspective. There is something quite satisfying about watching the big boy 
 destroy everything is sight.
  
  Sound is another factor that bears mention with King Kong. The sounds are really good with nice 
 ambient sound of the jungle surrounding you. Also, the music queues you a bit when danger arises 
 which is a nice thing, because when the beasties come, they normally will surprise you the first 
 time. At least once or twice, I was taken out of my seat due to the sound of a V-Rex or a Bat that 
 I hear but just could not gauge the direction. 
  
  I mentioned it a little bit before, but I wanted to mention the control scheme. While the mouse 
 and keyboard works well for the first person sequences, but when I switched to Kong, I have a lot 
 of frustration with the Rage mechanic. You are supposed to work Kong into a Rage to finish the 
 bigger beastie bosses in the game. Problem was that I could not Right click and hold the mouse 
 while scrolling the mouse wheel up. It really took me out of the game the first time it became 
 necessary. But I solved the problem by using my gamepad which worked out nicely.
  
  After reading all of this so far, you have to think that this is a 9+ game review. Well, Unfortunately, 
 the game takes a sharp detour once you get to New York. And please do not read the next few sentences 
 as I break down a small detail about the near end of the game. See, the finale is quite short. 
 The game spends about all but five minutes in New York. And yes, you read that right, I spent five 
 minutes of my six hour game play in New York. The ending was far too short and there should have 
 been more destruction in New York. Also, the game is short. While it is six hours of a mostly good 
 gaming experience, it just felt shorter due to the first half dozen to dozen sequences going by 
 so fast.
  
  I should note, that the game does give you unlockable items that you get for your score and for 
 completing the game. I have to say that I was not really drawn in by this and it could be because 
 I was not really interested in the movie. Most of the extra content has to do with the movie.
 
  
  King Kong is a visual treat that gives us a good game that is paced a bit too fast and ends rather 
 anti-climatically. You will enjoy the most of your game play, but in the end will seem a bit bummed 
 by the copped out ending sequence. You will have fun with the game and I do recommend it. I just 
 wish the ending would have been better.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Portugaman
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jan 12, 2006 3:56 am PT
Review:  Forget everything you know about big name movie licensed games. Forget that they're often rushed 
 out the door, that gameplay is sub-par, and that marketing dictates all. Peter Jackson's King Kong 
 is the exception to the rule. It may be based on a Hollywood film, but underneath it all, this 
 is one gorgeous, expertly designed action-adventure. 
  
  The game starts off with a short video clip, culled from the film, that sets up the backstory. 
 Then you're thrown right into the action and the pace never lets up. Sure there are puzzles to 
 solve and monsters to kill, but the game does an excellent job of avoiding any downtime so you're 
 always left with something to do. And each area leads seamlessly into the next, feeding the urge 
 to play "just one more level." 
  
  One of the big achievements in King Kong is the utter lack of a HUD. That's right, there's nothing 
 on the screen except you and the game. No health bar. No inventory. No nothing. It's just you and 
 the game world, which does a surprisingly good job of drawing you right in. Other characters talk 
 directly to you, work with you, and expect you to help them. If you're hurt, you know it because 
 the controller pulses and your vision blurs red. Low on bullets? Your character will comment on 
 it. By bringing everything into the world, King Kong sports an incredibly cinematic flair. You're 
 not playing a game -- you're playing the movie. 
  
  Some of the more notable moments in the game include the first time the oversized V-Rex (it looks 
 like a T-Rex and acts like a T-Rex) appears on screen and lets out a death defying roar. Or when 
 you first take control of Kong and send him into a frenzy by screaming and beating on his chest. 
 Another great moment is when you're near death -- your vision falters, your movement slows down, 
 and a beautiful aria starts playing. Though the music is calming, it's your cue to get away from 
 danger now, or you'll expire. 
  
  The levels themselves are broken into bite-sized chunks, with some taking no more than 10 minutes 
 to complete. Though this sounds odd, it works very well, as it means both hardcore and casual gamers 
 can enjoy the experience. The developers have also included a number of intelligent checkpoints; 
 when you die, you don't have to worry about repeating the whole level. This is a game that is designed 
 to keep you playing, above all else. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mysteriousangel
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 11, 2006 8:16 pm PT
Review:  Waited quite long fo this one to come out n didnt disoppoint me a bit.. the density of the green 
 n the detailed textures are to be admired.. the game keeps u off ur feet as u neva know which monster 
 is gonna come out of the bush.. N how can we forget about the Kong sequences?.. playin as the kong 
 is the strongest part of the game which amuses the gamer with the extra ordinary power n destructive 
 capabilities of the kong.. ( Though remind me of POP games when the kong runs along the wall ) .. 
 I've been playin UBISOFT games alot like Splinter cell series n the pop series n this one just 
 came out of no where n strucked ma mind with the amazing graphics n the intresting game play.. 
 The controls are excellent nn wont trouble you at any stage of the game.. N u can have ur own style 
 of the game play as UBISFOT has been offering this to us in all of their products.. U can either 
 dodge the monsters by throwing giant dragon flies or those catterpillers crawling far away frm 
 u n just get out of there or simply take the gun out n then take the monsters out of ur way..
 
  while playin the game u'll constantly b waiting to play as kong.. this makes u want to clear the 
 jack's part as quickly as possible..
  The brontos were just amazing n i was really amused to see the herd of brontos with such Realistic 
 graphics..
  Hats off to UBISOFT.. THey simply ROCK !!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JonathanNash
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jan 10, 2006 6:10 am PT
Review:  Raarrrrr! And all that.
  
  That's how I'd describe King Kong in less than 5 words. Note! "Raarrrrr!" does not refer to the 
 disgruntled sound of a giant gorilla, although it possibly could. No. Instead, "Raarrrrr!" is the 
 sound I made during various parts in the game where the purpose seemed only to cause me anger.
 
  
  (Spoilers)
  
  For example, during one part of the game where I had to rescue this movie maker man, Jack Black, 
 (his in-game name is worse and I can't remember it) after being taken away by a huge flying dinosaur 
 bird, he simply stood at a distance shouting commands to me randomly, such as "Defend yourself!" 
 Yeah, thanks a lot fool. You could actually help me defeat it seeing as I only have 1 shotgun clip 
 left, but no, you choose to issue annoying opinions throughout, such as "Good shot!" and "Almost!"
 
  
  Also, when you see a game entitled "King Kong", you expect to say, play as King Kong. FOr the majority 
 of the game though you play as Jack, some other guy. You play as King Kong eventually though, where 
 you have to fight three Dinosaurs whilst trying to keep an eye on Ann. "Press left mouse button 
 to drop Ann!" it cried as the battle commenced. "Y.. no" I thought, as I wanted her to experience 
 full on Kongage first hand. Alas, it was not to be. I was forced to put Ann down like a small child. 
 And then she legged it! What! I can't protect you if you run away to more dinosaurs! Come back! 
 Anyway, after killing the dinosaurs by clicking the mouse buttons repeatedly, you're supposed to 
 find Ann. However, because she'd ran off, I didn't actually know where to look. I tried to climb 
 the big gate, no success, I tried to leap off the side of the cliff, denied. Eventually I just 
 gave up and beat my chest for a while and roared. Good times.
  
  As the man you have to fight bugs and flying things and such. However there's an unfortunate lack 
 of gun ammo around, and you mostly have to resort to throwing large sticks at the enemies. This 
 was quite cool at first, but grew dull quickly.
  
  I've just focused on the bad points and now I've got bored, so I'll send by saying that overall, 
 it IS a fun game, just with a few minor tediums that sometimes get in the way of what should have 
 been a straight out "King Kong vs. T-Rex vs. Spider-man vs. Robocop vs. Russia" game.
  
  Check it out though, because I'm an idiot, so don't go on my word.
  bye. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: no1alboogie
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 7, 2006 9:39 am PT
Review:  It's just a great game. It makes you feel you're playing the movie, great atmosphere, above-par 
 voice acting, and not only do you get to play first person as Jack, but also Kong in third person. 
 The graphics are great and the soundtrack is up there too. When a V-rex sceams at you, you know 
 it. It's a pretty linear game, but packed with action. I wasn't really thrilled with the last part 
 of the game, it seamed they just threw it together to finish it in time for the holiday shopping 
 season, but it still wasn't too shabby. When you finish the game you have to play it over for points 
 to unlock the extras, I thought that was a little lame, but you'll want to play it again anyway. 
 The alternate ending is well worth the play, I liked it better than the real one, and it has alot 
 more action to it. You'll find it very hard to get bored from start to finish. I'd recommend this 
 game to anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dinotrex
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 5, 2006 8:05 pm PT
Review:  This game is really fun but it is way to short. I never had so much fun in a game. The parts with 
 jack makes you think before acting. the part with Kong make you in control. It is about a 10 hour 
 game. short ride but it was a fun one. King kong is fun just get a used one. ITs worth more of 
 $35 range. The best first person shooter out there in stores at lest for now. go buy it when the 
 price go s down it worth the money. go get  
  
 **** IT is a smart and fun desighn 
::::::

::::::
UserName: strkr241
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 29, 2005 9:19 am PT
Review:  I just bought King Kong on pc. 1 word sums it up... AWSOME. the graphics are rather nice (only 
 if you have a decent pc) . the sound it the best there is in a game and the gameplay is breathtaking. 
 the cutscenes are in the same style as the gameplay so the whole game looks very pretty in deed. 
 
  
  This masterpiece makes you feel like you are actually in the movie, if you dont believe me... you 
 have got problems. i was hooked to this game for hours and you will be too. if you didnt like the 
 film this is still an INTENSE game. all shoot em' up fans MUST own this title and those who wanna 
 go around kicking the s**t out of things as kong also. 
  
  where there are upsides there are also downsides. im not sure if its a good thing for a game to 
 get stupidly hard or not. i suppose it depends on the kinda gamer you are. the 1st few levels are 
 so so easy but in a great way, you dont complain about how easy it is. from then on you will find 
 yourself dying quite a lot (unless thats just me) . i found myself swearing at the screen many times. 
 i havent even finished the game yet but i dont need to. the first 5 hours (thats how far i am) 
 is still worth the amount of cash i paid (20) . 
  
  If you have a pal round that u wanna show off to... this is the game to do it on. this is truely 
 a impressive piece of software. theres something for everyone in this with the shooting, carnage, 
 atmosphere (a scary one at that) , the puzzle solving (yes, there is something for the brain boxes) 
 and an intense story... maybe even more than the film itself. 
  
  Dont bother with a rental. the game may be short but you will just find yourself ending up buying 
 it in the stores if you do anyway. A GOOD BUY!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Qulzam
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 29, 2005 4:59 am PT
Review:  Don't be afraid, be brave, otherwise you will pay for getting inside SKULL ISLAND. This is the 
 game that feels like real, it is the innovative game, game eels like reality, it has much features 
 like picking up a bone and hitting it to the creatures. Playing with jack is the bit harder than 
 of KONG.
  the graphics are preety good but the best thing in this game is the SOUND of this game, it has 
 much much effect on the game. Screams of Kong are imersive and iam giving the 10 out of 10 to the 
 sound of the game. great game for those who love Adventure 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Solid_Alexei
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 28, 2005 10:47 am PT
Review:  The first time I got King Kong was on its release fro PC The graphics were disappointment No 
 better then in PS2 version So I put the game aside and waited for the high resolution edition. 
 It finally came for the purchase in the online store (download) . The gameplay is the same as in 
 all those different versions but the graphics are simply breathtaking!!! The game uses all those 
 advance graphics features that are available only to the newest hardware!!! So if your machine 
 is somewhere lower then 2gb RAM, Athlon 3000+ and GeForce 6800, dont even bother to download this 
 game... It will not run!!! 
  The graphics are amazing! Even better then on Xbox 360!!! Kong and other creatures look alive and 
 stunning!!! Gameplay is also good and interesting! No menus or HUD stuff on your screen, just your 
 hands and eyes. Total in movie experience!! The only minus this game has is its total linear 
 and short game time! But all those movie licensed games are not tend to be very long, or good for 
 all matter This one is surprisingly solid!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: champmanfan
Rating: 7.3
Date: Dec 24, 2005 2:13 pm PT
Review:  I first played the demo of this game and it was pretty engaging and better than most movie-game 
 tie-ins. I wished I got the Collectors Edition over this standard version. I have a habit of getting 
 the better versions with plenty of extras. It's a shame the High Definition version of King Kong 
 is only available to the US & Canada for $39.99.
  
  SPECS:
  The recommended specs of this game is 2.8Ghz for the Athlon and this is a stupid estimate because 
 only the AMD FX57 is 2.8Ghz. The Pentium 4's (and over) is 2.8Ghz which is fine but I would estimate 
 a 2.0Ghz Athlon is just fine. So you will run it on those specs. I don't know why they are so high 
 when you can get the High Definition version from this site and their recommended specs are 3.0Ghz 
 for AMD & Pentium but you'll need 2Gb RAM. If anyone has played the High Definition version of 
 this game then please let me know if it has impressed you over this standard version.
  
  CONTROL TIPS:
  The gameplay is pretty easy to get into but the controls have to be configured 
 so that when you fire, your not holding down a key and two mouse buttons together - who the hell 
 plays any game like that? What I did was go to the Game Settings icon and config Jack's controls 
 so that Fire is on the left mouse button & the two actions modes Arm and Precise Aim is on both 
 the right mouse button. Much better!!
  
  BUGS:
  Just before I get to the graphics, I have to point out that there are still bugs/issues with this 
 game that need patching included; clipping problems, graphic hitch at the beginning with the corpse 
 where there's a red hue over the body and looks very odd, characters will get stuck in the environment 
 or can't move when there's a dead animal in the path ahead, shooting animals in the sky will lead 
 them to disappear after 2 seconds in mid-air. Apart from those issues that pop up occasionally, 
 its an addictive game that ties-in well with the movie.
  
  GRAPHICS:
  After playing the game for about 5 hours now, and looking back again and again at the recommended 
 spec, one things pops straight into my head - they don't match. The specs maybe high but the graphics 
 ain't. I've played every game on the high specs (included Half-Life 2 but not F. E. A. R.)
  and there's normally lots to play about with to get it to try and make your graphics card struggle 
 (mines a GeForce6800 Ultra 256Mb 460Mhz/1.18Ghz with ForceWare v81.95 drivers) . The graphics looks 
 flat with no bump-mapping to be seen - more like console graphics- and it looks like they missed 
 an opportunity to make the most of the grunt a PC has. 
  
  OVERALL:
  I've outlined most of the negatives you'll come across in the game and depending how random these 
 bugs are, you might not get some of the gameplay issues. Although it's boring linear it is surprisingly 
 good fun to play and the creatures in the game are huge and impressive. Playing it for the first 
 time, I was feeling awe-inspired and quite tingly for a short time at the beginning. The controls 
 are very easy to master and most enemies I've killed have been with spears and fire-spears to kill 
 multiple enemies. Get your prey setup and burn them in the long grass. If your still not sure on 
 buying this game, definitely rent this game if you plan on seeing the film.
  
  From Smithy
  ------------------ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: silvioniall
Rating: 5.6
Date: Dec 23, 2005 2:08 am PT
Review:  Well.... King Kong ; People Told Me that it's a good game on pc but I borrowed it on ps2 and i 
 said oh my god ?! Is that a PS2 Game? it has bad graphics as if you're playing playstation 1 and 
 i asked to my self... why resident evil 4 has good graphhics on ps2? & king kong no? so... King 
 Kong is bad on pc too? ... My Ratings below are on PS2's Graphics and etc.
  King Kong's Gameplay is not that bad but if the keys were better you would play this game as if 
 the graphics were bad or good 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 20939572522766106736609805272248-Anailator707
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 22, 2005 10:32 am PT
Review:  King Kong for the PC isnt that bad... Its actually pretty good.. You play
  as a human named Jack Driscol and survive! Or you can play as king
  kong and kill everything you 
 see... The gameplay never gets old for some 
  reason... The action never ends.. Its fantastic! The graphics are Ok for
  a computer game, but there 
 are time to time glitches during the game,
  like a dino will fall through the ground, or you'll freeze in Mid Air... But it's
  really rare 
 for that to actually happen.... The fighting seqences are SPECTACULAR for kong... spliting open a 
 t-rexes jaw.... is RAD! for 
  Jack your stuck using spears more than guns... But overall this game is worth
  getting, plus there's 
 a secret ending..
  
  
  Peace out! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: everlars
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 20, 2005 12:11 pm PT
Review:  ESTE TIPO DE JUEGOS SON EXELENTES POR LA DESTREZA Y ACERTIJOS QUE TIENES QUE RESOLVER APARTE LAS 
 GRAFICAS SON BUENAS, Y EL JUEGO ES BASTANTE LARGO LO CUAL TE PASARAS HORAS EN DIVERSION Y AVENTURA, 
 LO UNICO QUE NO ME GUSTO SON LAS AVES Y NO TE DAN MUCHAS BALAS POR LO CUAL TIENES QUE MATAR CON 
 BARAS LO CUAL SE VUELVE TEDIOSO Y COMPLICADO PERO EN GENERAL ES EXCELENTE JUEGO. DEBERIAS DE COMPRALO 
 TE LO RECOMIENDO MUCHO, APARTE UBISOFT MANEJA BUENOS JUEGOS, AUNQUE LA PELICULA NO LA HE VISTO 
 PERO ME IMAGINO QUE HA DE SER IGUAL QUE EL JUEGO. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SZeroC
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 18, 2005 1:04 pm PT
Review:  Finally, someone has created a movie-based game that really is immersive. King Kong, the video 
 game, is a sigh of relief in a world of disgraceful cross-promotions, a revolutionary bridge between 
 gaming and film.
  
  King Kong tells the story of a film director - impeccably voiced by Jack Black - who brings his 
 cast and crew to the mysterious Skull Island to shoot a film. It turns out that the island is packed 
 with savage tribesmen, mutant insects, dinosaurs and a humongous gorilla. Most of the game focuses 
 on the human characters, where players control actor Jack Driscoll in the first-person, but every 
 once in a while, the perspective switches to third-person as players romp through the forest as 
 the mighty Kong.
  
  By stripping down to the essentials, King Kong allows the player to get right into the action. 
 Human controls do not allow jumps, changes in speed or fancy evasive maneuvers, and the screen 
 is devoid of clumsy numbers, meters or health bars. The game uses a Halo-style regenerating health 
 system, and the screen turns bloody red when Jack or Kong are in serious danger. All of this helps 
 to make King Kong feel less like a game and more like an experience.
  
  Since Jack can only carry one firearm at a time, players never really build up a stockpile, and 
 are forced to rely on other means of survival. Tribal spears and sharpened bones are good weapons 
 when ammo is low, but they can also be lit on fire and hurled at brambles to create new paths.
 
  
  For such a simple combination of spear throwing and gunplay,
  King Kong's scenarios are fairly diverse. Memorable moments include a shotgun battle with swarms 
 of mutant bats and a mad dash through an endless caravan of brontosauruses. In one of the game's 
 most enjoyable scenes, Jack and a few other characters float down some rapids on a pair of rafts, 
 with two "V-Rex" dinosaurs in pursuit. Using only spears to ward off the massive beasts, escaping 
 to a tunnel just to hear someone yell, "One's going around to the other side!" is a hair-raising 
 experience.
  
  Revenge is ultimately served to the hostile creatures when players take control of Kong. His swinging 
 arms that knock away handfuls of enemies, his roar that shakes the screen and causes everything 
 around him to blur temporarily and the flashes of white light that emphasize his more powerful 
 attacks are cackle-inducing. To control Kong is to become Kong, and players will undoubtedly thirst 
 for more after the first encounter.
  
  All of this is enhanced by the sound, which is the most superb presentational aspect of the game. 
 Everything, from the ominous chanting of the natives to the disastrous growl of the dinosaurs to 
 the rich orchestral score, is spot-on. It's great to see a game where the audio successfully overshadows 
 the graphics, which in this case are only slightly above average.
  
  King Kong falters only in its inability to rise to greatness. It's kind of short, it's a little 
 repetitive and it isn't too hard to put down. It's not the perfect game, but it's the perfect demonstration 
 of what a movie-based game can be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazy_ferret123
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 11, 2005 1:34 pm PT
Review:  well, its time for that weekly movie game that they come up with....: (. WAIT!!!! its actually GOOD?? 
 u better believe it folks. this ones good. yah, its great as a matter a fact. this ones a rare 
 gem. you can either play as jack or kong himself. jacks part is fun, but it just doesnt compare 
 to kongs role, smashing everything in his way, breaking jaws literally, and just being a ba d ass. 
 there is a weak selection of moves for him though, but you really dont notice, with the clutter 
 of adreniline of rushing huge t-rexes and little dinosaurs, ther is a **** load of action, which 
 is incredibly satisfying. jacks part, is well, uh..... ok?? its sorta boring and his control scheme 
 is a bit confusing. i would have like to see some limbs of yourself when u look around, but instead 
 its nothing but the sspace in front of you or your gun. its a unique concept that you have to press 
 a button to bring up your gun though, and the sound in this game is amazing. if you have surround 
 sound you will be shaking, i swear. but the best part of this game is, the spear, its just fun 
 impaling various dinosaurs, and ripping it out and shoving it back in to finish the job. the voices 
 are well recorded and are always consistent. this is a good one to pick up if you have a 360, but 
 maybe just a rent on regular consoles. and pc has some slowdown, so dont do what i did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hittin
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 11, 2005 5:24 am PT
Review:  Intro::::::::
  The King Kong movie hasn't yet been released, so i don't know how good the film will be, but this 
 game is absolutely awful. I will explain why below.
  
  Gameplay::::::::
  The gameplay is ok, when your Jack the controls are poor and doesn't feel right, and you can mistake 
 buttons for other buttons. When your playing as Kong, the W-A-S-D keys are set out awful, its hard 
 to move in the way that you want because of the awful controls. The missions feel repetitive and 
 boring also there isn't much game genres apart from First Person Shooter which is awful, and action/platformer 
 as king kong. However the combos are simply stunning and it feels awesome when you hit a T rex.
 
  
  Graphics::::::
  Maybe this is what saves this game from being the worst ever film game. The graphics are great, 
 the weapons look amazing, the people look great, the environment feels lively, and t rex and king 
 kong also look great.
  
  Improvement:::::::
  This game needs to have much better gameplay, and theres no multiplayer, so after you finish it 
 a couple of times, you get bored and feel like you have wasted your good money on nothing. It would 
 be better if the missions are made more exciting and some other game genres like driving need to 
 be included in this game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ariel_king
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 5, 2005 6:59 am PT
Review:  I played this game and it was unbelivible.
  
  Gameplay: You can play or a human or king kong himself and then go and kick some ass. The areas 
 are unbelivible but my only problem with this game is the storyline. The storyline is very good 
 but it is very short. Like you can play for like 7 hours and then finish the game.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are absolutely stunning. King Kong looks perfect and the enemies and the 
 humans are unbelivibly beautiful.
  
  Sound: WOW. This is the almost the best sound in video game ever (except for Halo of course) . The 
 shooting sound is unbelivible and when you play King Kong and you hear the sound then you feel 
 that you are in a jungle.
  
  Value: You can play for only 6 hours and finish the game. The storyline is very short and there 
 is no online feature in this game.
  
  Reviewer's tilt: Overall this game is the best game based on a movie and you should definitely 
 buy this game at all cost. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ariel_stoltz
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 5, 2005 6:49 am PT
Review:  I played this game and it was unbelivible.
  
  Gameplay: You can play or a human or king kong himself and then go and kick some ass. The areas 
 are unbelivible but my only problem with this game is the storyline. The storyline is very good 
 but it is very short. Like you can play for like 7 hours and then finish the game.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are absolutely stunning. King Kong looks perfect and the enemies and the 
 humans are unbelivibly beautiful.
  
  Sound: WOW. This is the almost the best sound in video game ever (except for Halo of course) . The 
 shooting sound is unbelivible and when you play King Kong and you hear the sound then you feel 
 that you are in a jungle.
  
  Value: You can play for only 6 hours and finish the game. The storyline is very short and there 
 is no online feature in this game.
  
  Reviewer's tilt: Overall this game is the best game based on a movie and you should definitely 
 buy this game at all cost. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: I_use_a_monitor
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 3, 2005 10:39 pm PT
Review:  I didn't get a lot of time to play it since I only got three levels from the KFC demo, but what 
 I got to play it was alright but a bit hard, once I got use to it, it was just right but you'll 
 need I lot of time to play it unlike me because I have a lot of home work at the moment.
  The graphics on this game where amazing compared to some other games I have played, but I think 
 you will like this game overall.
  I really cant wait till the movie comes out in cinemas. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: traceit
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 3, 2005 6:34 pm PT
Review:  I love this game. Everything looks great. The sound track is top notch. The graphics and game play 
 are awesome. Getting to kick the Tyranosaurous's butts while playing as Kong is cool. I like that 
 the game keeps you on your toes at all times. You never know when you'll be attacked or by what. Giant 
  assed batsetc are all waiting for you to come near just to 
 attack you and perhaps even make a meal out of you (the Rex gets you when you're playing as Jack 
 and you're toast. You don't even get a chance to say goodbye) . There are plenty of weapons. I like 
 using the spears as much as possible to conserve ammunition as you never know when you'll find 
 more ,as the supply chests that are airdropped by the ships' captain can be far and few between. Pretty 
 much everything that lives on Skull Island is out to kill you. From the natives to the T-Rexes, there 
 is never a dull moment. It keeps you busy and I find it very entertaining. I can't wait for December 
 16th so I can go see the actual movie in the theatre. Great game!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EricLT
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 3, 2005 9:53 am PT
Review:  Very amazing, but short game...
  
  This is the first game that used no-hud system so succesfuly. It puts the game into the better 
 feel of action or even some sightseeing. The details of textures or the poly counts aren't amazing, 
 but the added effects and great animations just makes the graphics simply beautiful.
  It is also the first game where the bullets are so valuable. You can't just go and shoot crazy 
 like Serious Sam, you have to often press I, to hear Jack telling the average number of magazines/bullets 
 left. But still, the game managed to balance this so that it isnt that annoying to save the bullets, 
 I mean, it's even enjoyable. The game is even more exciting because of the Spears. They have more 
 power than most of the guns, so you'll find yourself using it very often, and trust me, you wont 
 get dissapointed. Action gets simply amazing... You hear some dinos incoming and get your spear 
 ready. Once they come from the high grass, you toss the spear into one of them, go back with the 
 in-mind objective to find another spear, while shooting (and at the same time counting bullets 
 till reload) at dynos to keep them back. The bullets suddenly ends, but one dino is still in chase 
 of you... You keep going back, bashing your gun into the dinos head several times to keep him back 
 and eventualy, find the spear. You toss it into dyno, he falls, but he is not dead yet. He struggles 
 to get up, the time is ticking, you dont have any weapons left, so you take a risk and rush into 
 the dyno, tear the spear from him, toss it again, still not killing the dyno, you grab the spear 
 for one last time, braking it and throw it again. The beast dies. You're left with no weapons, 
 but with heart full of adrenaline and joy...
  
  And the balance of the game is really great. I havent played such a game before, where everything 
 seems in just the right amount... There is NO bad things to ruin your enjoyment for even a second! 
 It's just unbelievably balanced!
  
  In few words... It's just AMAZING.
  
  If you are taking a decision to buy this game or not, then think no more! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gokuzero
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 2, 2005 4:55 pm PT
Review:  The first-person action adventure/third-person gorilla beat-'em-up combo genre has been born in 
 Peter Jackson's King Kong: The Official Game of the Movie. As the long-winded title suggests, this 
 is the game based on the upcoming retelling of the 1933 film by the Academy Award-winning director 
 of the Lord of the Rings trilogy. King Kong feels more like a stand-alone product than a handy 
 cash-in for the license, however. This game blends the aforementioned first-person action sequences 
 with its third-person (or should it be third-gorilla?) components remarkably well, as you traverse 
 the perils of Skull Island as both screenwriter Jack Driscoll and the 800-pound gorilla himself, 
 King Kong. It also helps that both components, on their own standing, can be a great deal of fun 
 when the game is at its best -- which, fortunately, is the majority of the time. Unfortunately, even 
 the majority of the time isn't very long in the case of King Kong, a game that won't take you more 
 than a single afternoon to beat. But that afternoon will be well spent.
  
  Skull Island: Home of beautiful people, lush beaches, and friendly animal life.
  
  The story 
 of King Kong opens with filmmaker Carl Denham (voiced by the always-entertaining Jack Black) in 
 a fit of desperation. A film studio is about to can his next project, so it's going to take something 
 drastic to get things back on track. Along with his screenwriter, Jack (played by the soft-spoken 
 Adrien Brody) , and struggling actress Ann Darrow (played wonderfully by Naomi Watts) , Carl procures 
 a ship to take him and his misfit film crew to the mysterious Skull Island, a supposedly abandoned 
 home of a lost civilization. Why exactly he goes to all this trouble just to film a movie isn't 
 really explained in the game. In fact, most of the early story exposition is told briefly via the 
 first half of the movie trailer you've likely seen in theaters already. Obviously it would seem 
 that there is more to all this, but you won't get to find out about it until you go see the movie 
 in a few weeks. By the same token, because the movie isn't out yet, we can't tell you how much 
 of the story King Kong: The Official Game of the Movie might spoil for you. If you're the type 
 that absolutely wants to be surprised, you might want to wait a few weeks before grabbing this 
 game.
  
  The game itself picks up right as the ship reaches the gloomy island. You open your eyes to see 
 the world through the perspective of Jack, just as he's being lowered in a rowboat, along with 
 Denham, Ann, and a pair of sailors, to set forth for the shore. It's stormy waters, and sure enough, 
 things go awry when large chunks of rock begin plummeting into the sea, right near your boat. You 
 wake up on the beach, with the almost angelic Ann standing over you. You're marooned, confused, 
 and wondering what those horrible, beastly shrieks are that are coming from further within the 
 island. All this happens before you even pick up a weapon, and you'll honestly spend the first 
 10 minutes or so of the game just looking around, taking in the scenery and gaining your bearings.
 
  
  In fact, you'll probably do a lot of sight-seeing in King Kong, partially due to the great atmosphere 
 (which we'll get to later) , and also because there isn't anything on the screen to distract you 
 from the enemies and scenery in front of you. There's no heads-up display of any kind. You gauge 
 how much health you have via a screen effect that flashes the screen red when you're injured. When 
 in such a state, you need to get away from the action briefly to heal up. If you take another major 
 blow while things are still flashing, you'll die. Ammo is kept track of via verbal cues from Jack. 
 Every time you reload, he says out loud if he's got enough ammo, or if he's starting to run dry. 
 It's a great system, really. You won't ever feel like you're missing a HUD, since these subtle 
 methods of information really keep you in the loop.
  
  You can only hold one gun at a time, though you can pocket weapons in favor of pointier instruments 
 of death, like discarded bones of fallen creatures and spears that have been left lying about. 
 You will need to toss said weapon before you can pull your gun again, however (which does make 
 sense, given the limited carrying ability of Jack) . The game goes out of its way to make its ammo 
 pickups seem completely sensible, too. The captain of the ship flies around the island in a seaplane, 
 dropping crates full of guns for you to pick up here and there, while he looks for a decent place 
 to land. Spears and bones are left in areas that seem to make perfect sense for the scenery. And 
 apart from bones, ammo isn't unlimited. If you find a cache of three spears, then that's all you 
 get to use (though you can reuse spears over and over again if you need to) . You also only get 
 a certain amount of ammo per gun, and once you're dry, you'll need to improvise. It's great though, 
 because the game always seems to leave enough other weapons around to give you just enough to beat 
 off whatever threats are coming your way. If you're cautious and jump between spears and guns on 
 a measured basis, you'll never feel like you're hopelessly outgunned.
  
  Somehow King Kong manages to make a dark, gloomy, depressing island into a beautiful thing to look 
 at.
  
  Whether you're chucking spears, pumping shotguns, or letting loose barrages of bullets with a Tommy 
 gun, the combat during Jack's sections of King Kong are always satisfying. The weapons all pack 
 a good punch, and it's surprisingly easy to hit your targets. There's no targeting reticle turned 
 on by default, but you don't need one. So long as you're aiming in the direction of an enemy, you're 
 likely to hit it. It's not that the game is completely holding your hand, it's just making it so 
 it doesn't have to clutter the interface with a precise reticle, and that's a great touch.
  
  It also helps that the monsters you'll encounter on Skull Island are unbelievably ferocious. 
 Everything that lives on this island is like a bigger, significantly mutated version of an animal 
 that was highly dangerous and unpleasantly tempered to begin with. Angry dinosaurs, 10-foot-long 
 millipedes, hordes of giant scorpions, and bats that look more like massive gargoyles are just 
 some of the horrific beasts that inhabit this hellacious place, and they don't much care for the 
 fact that you're on their turf. They're smart, too. They'll attack in packs and force you into 
 hiding spots and cover positions. And boy, do they like to bite. Some enemies can't even be killed 
 by puny humans, like the packs of Tyrannosaurus rexes that periodically pop up. The best you can 
 do when they show up is hope to distract them long enough with gunfire and spears to find a way 
 the hell out of there. It's tense, gripping stuff when you're running around like a madman, desperately 
 shooting at a T-Rex that's angrily growling at deafening volume, and it shows that this game has 
 more to it than just mindless shooting.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: chad
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 2, 2005 11:49 am PT
Review:  I havent had a whole lot of time to play this title, but what I have seen of the full game and 
 the demo I am amazed. I think my favorite thing is the way you interact with weapons and the aiming 
 of the weapons. The sound is also incredible. I am running it on a surround sound setup and just 
 love it. I have been craving an immersive game like this for quite awhile now.
  The only thing I think I had a harder time with is getting used to the lag in the movement in 1st 
 person. What I am talking about is how your character runs out of breath. NOT used to that at all 
 in a run and gun. I am a smoker and I feel like the character I am controlling is as well (laugh) . 
 
  All and all this is a great game! Definitely one of the games that came from a movie that is equally 
 good as the motion picture.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DigiAngel
Rating: 5.8
Date: Nov 30, 2005 6:31 pm PT
Review:  FPS Jack: Lotta fun... good environment.. chuckin spears was pretty cool (although only about 6 types 
 of creatures to deal with) . Sound was great... down to breathing and being short of breath after 
 running. Immersive storyline, but not too much in the way of really needing to interact with things 
 (levers and fire were the only things) . Fire was kinda cool as well
  
  3rd person Kong: Horrid controls... almost automatic in some areas... camera would move at odd points 
 where you couldn't even see even though Kong was looking right at it. Kong in New York was even 
 more of a joke.. trying to get around boxed in was just about impossible.
  
  Verdict: Wait for the bargain bin. At $40 this is NOT worth it. Rip out the Kong crap, put in more 
 Jack FPS and sell it for $30... thats' the only sane thing to do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: licenturion2
Rating: 7.2
Date: Nov 29, 2005 1:07 am PT
Review:  When I read the first info about this game I thought it would be just about every other movie-based 
 game: a dull overhyped bad game.
  
  Well fortunatly my expectations proved to be wrong. King Kong will never win a 'Game Of The Year' 
 award, but over all it's not a bad title. 
  
  Story:
  Everybody who hasn't been living in a cave for the last 50 years know the story about Kong. The 
 story isn't that special but it is presented in a clever cinematic way. The game gives the impression 
 that you can influence in different ways because it's so well integrated. The game gives you limited 
 movement in most of the cutscenes so it feels you really are 'in' the story. But like I stated 
 before: the game gives you the impression. In fact you can't influence the story, because everything 
 is scripted in the smallest details.
  
  I think it's a bad choice that there isn't a decent intro that fit's with the style used in the 
 rest of the game. Instead they use the very low quality cinematic trailer.
  
  Graphics:
  From a pure technological point of view the graphics of the boxed edition are moderate. There are 
 games these days that have far better and sharper graphics. On the other had from an artistic point 
 of view the graphics are top notch. The desgin style of the environments and lighting effects are 
 one of the best ever seen in a game. As with the story, the game tries to give you the impression 
 that you are in a large dense dangerous jungle and this works perfectly. In fact the game is more 
 a one-way lineair path and the game is scripted so it doesn't give you the time to explore the 
 beautiful scenery. If you had time to explore you would notice how small the landscapes and levels 
 are.
  
  Sound:
  The game features some great voiceovers and some great music. All the voices are spoken by the 
 characters of the movie. Also the ambient sounds and the monster sounds are exeptionally good.
 
  
  Gameplay:
  You can play as Kong and as human. As human you have to shoot you way through the game with weapons 
 and spears. Weapons have a very limited ammo so you'll end up using spears most of the time. Shooting 
 isn't really difficult because your team will never be hurt even if you shoot at them. Also shooting 
 to enemies isn't that difficult because they die even if you shoot a bit next to them.
  
  When you play the game as kong you'll end up smashing your mouse and keyboard as hard and as fast 
 as possible to kill the enemies. 
  
  While both playing styles are very interesting, to the end of the game all this gets a little repetive. 
 Basicly you will be doing the same things every level. As human you will shoot some enemies, find 
 fire and set the grass on fire so you can get through the exit to the next level. As kong you do 
 a few jumps, smash you keyboard, again a few jumps, smash the keyboard once more, rescue An, end 
 of level...
  
  Also the environment get's a little repetive at the end of the game. Always the same 7 enemies, 
 always the green misty jungle with the same grass or the same rocks. A little variation would have 
 been nice.
  
  Value:
  Every other review mentions that the game is too short. I will have to agree to this. The game 
 is indeed very short but in the end I think this is a great choice. Like I mentioned before all 
 the game mechanics are getting a little repetive to the end of the game. So if the game had been 
 longer, the was a need of more varieted levels and more gameplay features. I can imagine that someday 
 I will replay this game once, but that will be it... Because the game is completly scripted everything 
 will be the same during replay.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Q8zz4Df63
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 28, 2005 9:01 pm PT
Review:  Normally, I would have written a review which would have added to the many positive accolades already 
 bestowed upon this game. However, the linearity of the game was stifling for this reviewer. Many 
 would love this since it would have spared them getting lost in the tangles of the jungle. It became 
 quickly boring looking for levers to open gates; it became appalling to have to listen to "Jack!!!! 
 Jack!!!!" time and again. I tired of burning thorns. My guns were almost useless while my spears 
 wreaked havoc. The controls for Kong were abysmal although playing as Kong was quite novel (I liked 
 using cars and swinging them to destroy everything in NYC as I tried to find the Empire State building) . 
 I noticed that my aim with spears, rifles, thorns, and thrown cars rivaled that of the legendary 
 sharpshooter of WW I, Sgt York, even without my trying to be specific. Yes, there were many great 
 features such as an easy learning curve, great graphics, if you had the better video cards, and 
 no glitches experienced to this writer's amazement (there were no crashes, freeze frames, audio 
 impairment or any other gremlins.) But, the dollar cost divided by playing time left something 
 to be desired - it was too short. I would rate the game overall as a 6.0. Buy it when it becomes 
 "used" since many will tire of it quickly and probably sell it . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jmiller180
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 27, 2005 7:26 pm PT
Review:  Peter Jackson's King Kong the Official Game of the Movie is a game worth renting. It has great 
 graphics and great audio. I can't really say that about the storyline and the engine. The first 
 6 or so levels of the game you use mainly guns. Then after that you rarely ever get guns and when 
 you do they are sniper rifles. The King Kong part is fun but the camera angles change which is 
 horrible. Also on the Kong part at the bottom of the screen it will tell you to press buttons on 
 your keyboard. What they tell you does not help with Kong, just hit buttons. The enemys are boring 
 to me, but maybe you will find great joy in this game so I invite you to go out and rent this game... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arsenaltom
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 26, 2005 7:38 am PT
Review:  This game is not what it was cracked up to be. Read on to find out why.
  
  Graphics: Visually this game is a marvel and the whole thing just looks fantastic. The camera does 
 a great job of putting you into the action with some stunning cinematic view points.
  
  Gameplay: However, underneath the beautiful graphics you have some pretty lazy game play. The guy 
 who reviewed this said playing as Kong rules, he's entitled to his opinion but it's not actually 
 all that good. It basically just some button mashing. He has an attack and a finishing move-that's 
 it! Playing as Jack is also very annoying, however i think while it's more fun being Kong, it's 
 better gameplay when your Jack. However, seeing as that you can barely kill anything on the island, 
 there is no radar and the fact that when you get to New York you never hear from him again. It's 
 kinda crap.
  
  Sound: The sound in the game is excellent. All of the original actors provide voice for their characters 
 and the sound effects like the dinosaurs, the environment and Kong are brilliant too.
  
  Value/Lifespan: This game has no lifespan at all really. You will play it through in about 6 hours 
 and then might not even play it again. For the full price it's pants value.
  
  Overall: It looks great from videos and screenshots, but don't let that fool you, because underneath 
 you will find that Kong isn't nesacarily King. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dinamika
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 26, 2005 5:50 am PT
Review:  King Kong has finnaly arrived. The looks amazing the graphics the sound. The enviroment is colorfull. You 
 can play as a human king kong and a dinosaur. But not much you can play as KONG. The game is very 
 short you can beat it in 10 to 20 hours. Its great Ubisoft has outdonnet their selfs!!! JEEEZZZZ!!! The 
 story of King Kong opens with filmmaker Carl Denham (voiced by the always-entertaining Jack Black) 
 in a fit of desperation. A film studio is about to can his next project, so it's going to take 
 something drastic to get things back on track. Along with his screenwriter, Jack (played by the 
 soft-spoken Adrien Brody) , and struggling actress Ann Darrow (played wonderfully by Naomi Watts) , 
 Carl procures a ship to take him and his misfit film crew to the mysterious Skull Island, a supposedly 
 abandoned home of a lost civilization. Why exactly he goes to all this trouble just to film a movie 
 isn't really explained in the game. In fact, most of the early story exposition is told briefly 
 via the first half of the movie trailer you've likely seen in theaters already. Obviously it would 
 seem that there is more to all this, but you won't get to find out about it until you go see the 
 movie in a few weeks. By the same token, because the movie isn't out yet, we can't tell you how 
 much of the story King Kong: The Official Game of the Movie might spoil for you. If you're the 
 type that absolutely wants to be surprised, you might want to wait a few weeks before grabbing 
 this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vincentgdg
Rating: 3.8
Date: Nov 25, 2005 5:06 am PT
Review:  I just tried to play the demo.
  When it finished loading I saw something green turning around and around.
  After some seconds 
 I found out that I was looking at the ground and my char was spinning.
  
  Some checking brought me to the fact that this game automatically checks all input from keyboard, 
 mouse and joystick at the same time. You cannot disable the input sources in the game!
  
  Although my joystick is perfectly calibrated I could not use it in the game, and I surely won't 
 uninstall my hardware just to test a so badly programmed game.
  
  This is the second time in some years that this happens to me, I don't remember what the other 
 game was, but I thought that after this time nobody will ever make such a mistake.
  
  If the rest of the game is equally programmed, gut look with it, I deleted it after 3 mins.
  
 
  Regards
  Thomas
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: xdancexyayxnayx
Rating: 8.1
Date: Nov 24, 2005 11:38 am PT
Review:  Ok well first of all King Kong is a good game dont get me wrong but theres a few problems with 
 it.
  1) It is a easy game that can be completed in a day or 2
  2) King Kongs parts are not as good as they could be and his climbing/swinging parts almost seem 
 like you dont need to control it
  3) Not really a problem but as fear/half life 2/call of duty 1 & 2/doom 3/quake 4 and a load more 
 are now on sale its got way to much compo to stand out in the long term
  
  Good Parts
  1) Fighting as Kong and Jack (2 totally different game experiences rolled into 1)
  2) Nice graphical 
 touches in some parts (fire effects look nice in my opinion)
  3) Probably the best film to game title so far in my view
  
  Im going to also add this as im 
 from England it cost me 30 was it worth it yes and no, yes because it is a good game, no because 
 if like me you play games for a few hrs a day you will complete it in no time and theres not alot 
 to go back to in my view once its finished 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
