-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: PGA Championship Golf 2000
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sports/pgachampionshipgolf2000/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun  6, 2000
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.9
Critic Score: 8.7, 20 Review (s)
User Score: 7.8, 25 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Sierra Entertainment
Genre: Golf Sim
Date:     Jun 1, 2000 &raquo;  
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
PGA Championship Golf 2000 is currently the unrivaled king of golf sims. 

 The predecessor to Sierra Sports' PGA Championship Golf 2000, PGA Championship Golf 1999 Edition, 
 finally achieved what many other PC golf sims have tried to do for nearly ten years. By stripping 
 away unrealistic golf-sim conventions such as aiming flags and shot arcs and replacing them with 
 a more true-to-life shot-setup mode and a great mouse-swing system, PGA Championship Golf 1999 
 delivered what computer-golf fans crave most: a simulation that mimics the experience of actually 
 hitting the links for a round of golf as closely as possible.   

  After the disappointing Links LS 2000 and Activision's decision to nix the Jack Nicklaus series, 
 the stage was set for the next installment in the PGA Championship Golf series to assume the mantle 
 of golf-sim champ - and PGA Championship Golf 2000 does precisely that. It's true that the game 
 could stand a bit of polish in a few areas - its graphics are still a hairbreadth short of the 
 visuals in Jack Nicklaus Golden Bear Challenge. But make no mistake: PGA Championship Golf 2000 
 is currently the unrivaled king of golf sims.   

  So how is it possible that such a fantastic golf sim carries a low $29.99 sticker price? The reason 
 may in fact be the consequence of one of the game's few weak points - instead of paying for licenses 
 to use real-life courses, Sierra Sports opted to augment the existing lineup of courses from the 
 1999 edition with five courses that were designed through the use of the PGA 2000 Course Architect. 
 The five courses, set in environments from cactus-filled deserts and breezy coastal peninsulas 
 to gently rolling forests, feature their own unique and significant challenges. So it's hard to 
 complain - especially when you consider that all the user-created courses available for the 1999 
 edition work with this new version and that more will be created through the use of the new Course 
 Architect. Still, it would have been nice if Sierra had found a way to add at least one or two 
 famous venues.   

  However, regardless of which courses you play, you'll continually appreciate the quality of the 
 3D-rendered terrain. Instead of the flat 2D trees typical of other golf sims, the trees in PGA 
 2000 appear so lifelike at higher resolutions that you might be tempted to walk over and take a 
 rest under one. From the fairways to the roughs, most everything in PGA Championship 2000 looks 
 like the real deal (though the authentic courses do look slightly better than the ones created 
 with the Course Architect) . Shadows from trees are also accurately rendered, though you'll notice 
 that the trees, unlike the flags, never seem to move in the wind.   

  About the only aspect of the game's graphics that could stand a little work is in the rendering 
 of water - compared to the reflective surfaces found in Jack Nicklaus Golden Bear Challenge, the 
 wet stuff in PGA Championship 2000 appears to be almost solid. You might also spot an occasional 
 graphical glitch, such as the ball turning dark or even tiger-striped, but these are so sporadic 
 (and usually remedied by simply exiting the game and restarting) that they're not worth mentioning 
 at greater detail.   

  You won't find two dozen game types of a Links LS in PGA Championship Golf 2000, but all your favorite 
 ways of playing are available, including stroke, match, skins, scramble, and a variety of best-ball 
 variations. Length of rough, green speed, and wind conditions can all be adjusted, as can rules 
 such as mulligans and gimmies. There's also a "readyplay" option that lets you go ahead and take 
 your next shot regardless of who's farthest away or where your opponent (human or computer) is 
 on the hole.    

 Analysts Mark Lye and Grant Boone provide color commentary as they do in PGA 2000's predecessor, 
 but the commentary still isn't perfect. Sometimes they have great lines, especially when you hook 
 the ball or have a splashdown, but they still have the godlike ability to announce that the ball 
 will catch the rough a split second after a shot, when the results are still uncertain. And occasionally 
 they're just plain wrong - once they were moaning about a lousy tee shot when the ball actually 
 wound up in the middle of the fairway. On another occasion, they said a shot hit from the rough 
 would be difficult when the ball was actually in the dirt, far from any grass. Despite all this, 
 their commentary tends to be accurate and entertaining enough that you'll leave it on, and the 
 enhanced crowd noises really get you into the game - you can even hear cheering at other holes 
 when you're playing in a tournament event.   

  Though some players will cling to the mouse-click method of executing shots, there's never been 
 a better opportunity to make the transition to the mouse-movement style of emulating the swing. 
 It definitely takes a bit of practice before you achieve the same level of accuracy using the TrueSwing 
 as you can get from the more traditional combo of mouse clicks and a power-meter bar. But once 
 you begin to get the feel for it, you'll discover that you can chip and putt with more accuracy 
 and finesse - and it's also a lot more rewarding, not to mention more realistic. You'll notice 
 how tough it is to work your way out of thick rough, dig out a ball that's buried in a sand trap, 
 or apply the right backspin. You'll find that the mouse swing is very rewarding for these types 
 of situations.   

  Unfortunately, some of the computer players' behavioral patterns aren't quite as realistic. There's 
 no way to fine-tune a computer opponent's strengths and weaknesses - something that both the Jack 
 Nicklaus and Links games let you do. And you'll occasionally be shocked at some of the wretched 
 shots the players attempt at the default difficulty setting. You'll sometimes see players on the 
 fringe chip through the green and down on the opposite side, and it's extremely rare they'll make 
 a putt beyond ten feet. But then again a lot of real-life players don't fare any better - and as 
 you attempt to master the TrueSwing, chances are you'll appreciate the breathing room provided 
 by the computer's errors.   

  One of the biggest improvements in PGA 2000 over the 1999 edition is the inclusion of a season 
 mode, in which you can compete for purses you designate against a strong field of fictional pros. 
 Setting up a season is a straightforward process, but there are a couple of anomalies. One is that 
 you're forced to select four rounds of 18 holes for a 72-hole event - choose "add round," select 
 it, then repeat three more times - rather than simply choosing 72 holes that default into four 
 rounds. This same unnecessary repetition applies to options such as readyplay and the use of handicaps 
 for each four rounds in an event. It's a minor problem, but it could have been avoided.   

  There's one other frustrating design decision in the season play mode: There's no option to save 
 a game during play. If you start a round, you have to finish all 18 holes for it to count. A patch 
 could easily accommodate those who don't want to sit around for an hour per session just to compete 
 in season play.   

  The game's multiplayer support includes modem, LAN, and Internet play, but it's too bad that Sierra 
 Sports decided to limit online play to competition over the WON network. This decision might have 
 been to ensure that you could always find an opponent, but the omission of a direct TCP/IP connection 
 is unfortunate, particularly since a lot of PGA Championship Golf owners will be competing in their 
 own leagues and will not need the hand-holding of the WON matchmaking service. The good news is 
 that the service seems to be more stable than it previously has been, and the readyplay option 
 means you can plow through 18 holes as quickly as if you were playing all by your lonesome.   

 
  Certainly there are other golf games slated to hit the shelves between now and next year. But 
 unless something pretty spectacular comes along, PGA Championship Golf 2000 will remain the game 
 of choice for discriminating golf fans.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (0 Reviews)
-------------------------------------------------
