-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Phantasmagoria
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/adventure/phantasmagoria/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: May  1, 1996
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6
Critic Score: 5.9, 6 Review (s)
User Score: 7.7, 381 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Sierra Entertainment
Genre: Adventure
Date:     Jul 31, 1995
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Phantasmagoria is Sierra's first attempt at a full-blown, live-action, interactive video adventure, 
 and their ambition far outweighs the results. 

 Phantasmagoria is Sierra's first attempt at a full-blown, live-action, interactive video adventure, 
 and their ambition far outweighs the results. A four-plus-million-dollar budget and over two years 
 in production do not necessarily translate into high quality gaming.  

 Much of Phantasmagoria is spent on typical adventure activities: exploring, grabbing items, and 
 problem solving. And on that level, the game is reasonably enjoyable. In addition, the graphics 
 are excellent, the music is emotive, and there are many pleasant surprises. But problems arise 
 in several areas: experienced adventurers will find Phantasmagoria generally unchallenging, the 
 characters weak, the violence over-the-top, and the script just lame. For instance, during day 
 one Adrienne discovers a secret chapel full of bizarre items yet doesn't think it important enough 
 to tell her husband. On day two, she barely breaks a sweat over the fact that her hubby has transformed 
 from a loving partner to a crazed lunatic.   

 Many of this title's problems come from complexities inherent in taking a huge concept and trying 
 to wring a game out of it. Somebody forgot to do some detailed planning and fine-tuning. This is 
 clear from the character interactions, the repetitive nature of some scenes, and the unrealistic 
 puzzles -- the telescope eyepiece "glints" in the sand only after you discover you need it, even 
 though you've walked by that spot several times already.  

 So why is Phantasmagoria so darned popular? It's accessible to newbies, it's a new genre, and Sierra 
 has promoted the hell out of it. The built-in hint system can turn this into a cakewalk and you'll 
 be wowed by the occasional top notch production values. Unfortunately, the repetitive violence 
 may turn the newcomers off just as quickly. My recommendation: Phantasmagoria is only for the gaming-challenged. 
 Otherwise try Gabriel Knight: The Beast Within. It's Sierra's second big-time video adventure and 
 they learned from their mistakes.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (9 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: brysterdude
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 20, 2008 6:23 pm PT
Review:  Let's start out by saying, congratulations. You've successfully made a game with "the best" graphics... 
 The best, you ask? Yes, the whole game is live-action, so by default, Phantasmagoria has the best 
 graphics of any video game ever, ha ha.
  
  Now I would like to start out with some actual good things - Firstly, the storyline is one of the 
 best I've ever had the pleasure of watching. One bad thing though, if you were in the same house 
 of a man possessed by a demon, who happened to be your spouse, BUT in the end you knew that you'd 
 just have to kill him... Well I'd leave the house (Which you'll be doing a LOT throughout the game) .
 
  
  Secondly, the characters are all live-action, so the cut scenes are believable, and with excellent 
 acting to back it up! Seriously, these actors are phenomenal in Phantasmagoria!
  
  Okay, okay, some bad things now... It's a live action, so naturally, the main character wouldn't 
 just stand there as you make your next move, right? Wrong. If you're not sure where to go, Adrian 
 certainly won't help you at all, she stands still... Like death! Ha ha, not fun!
  
  One more amazing thing before I go on to the absolute worst thing about Phantasmagoria - The Gore 
 and violence is first rate. And the pure horror at which some of the torture scenes hurl at you. 
 It's horrifying! Truly!
  
  And now, (Drum Roll) The worst thing about Phantasmagoria the game play. The game play is hard, 
 you get absolutely NO hints, and you must do everything exactly in order, and there's not a lot 
 of room for lean-way.
  
  So there you have it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kingmohd84
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 3, 2008 3:54 am PT
Review:  I wont go long in detail about this game, but what I want to say is this is the scariest game I 
 ever played. I think its scarier than any movie too.
  
  The story and idea of it sends shivers in my spine. In the year of release this game was something 
 else, it was really innovative for me.
  
  I want to say the downside to this game is its made from 7 cd i believe, but if you know what you 
 have to do I think you can run through each CD in 5 minutes, so the idea is to explore and enjoy 
 the mood and experience and not run through it.
  
  I really thought it was creepy and its not using just stupid zombies and ugly stupid figures with 
 5 eyes and two noses to scare you. It really has scary feeling to it in the mood of the story. 
 I will say its a lot like playing the lead character in a horror novel if you ask me.
  
  What i promise is that this game gives you a very unique experience that You will not find somewhere 
 else, at least this how it was back in 1995. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kragspire
Rating: 5.5
Date: Feb 15, 2008 8:41 pm PT
Review:  There was allot of hype presented for Roberta Williams' upcoming technologic break-through, Phantasmagoria. 
 The game was one of the most expensive computer game ever produced, supporting a cast of actors, 
 props and even it's own orchestra. While all of this sounds great and should of went down in history, 
 Phantasmagoria was a fine example of the classic phrase, "don't believe the hype".
  
  The game introduces the player to a happily married couple named Adrienne Delaney (Victoria Morsell) 
 and Don Gordon (David Homb) . They have just purchased a mysterious mansion overlooking the sea 
 coast where Don wishes to expand his photography career while Adrienne writes novels for a living. 
 The story starts out shallow, often times providing some pathetic acting by both their parts. When 
 things start heating up is when it makes you wish they would just stop and get a new cast. FMV 
 games of the 1990's were never known for great acting and this is a fine example of why that came 
 to be.
  
  You take control of Adrienne, who has to be one of the worst adventure game characters ever. She 
 presents herself as a complete ditz who would lose her head if it wasn't screwed on tight. Often 
 times when you command her to view an object she will sit there and stare at it for an obnoxious 
 amount of time, often reminding me of a raccoon who just came across a shiny object. To make matters 
 worse, she is a yuppie whiner who would make any guy run screaming in the dark due to her lack 
 of humor and obsessive use of mirrors. This lady spends almost half the game giving herself a look-over 
 in the various mirrors positioned around the house, with no point in it at all other then to waste 
 the player's time. 
  
  Most of the puzzles in the game are very easy. The game offers in-game hints in case you may become 
 stuck. The interface is streamlined, eliminating functions such as smell, taste, talk, look, walk 
 and instead is done with just one icon. Any adventure game that has an interface this easy should 
 be considered more of a click to view movie, because there is no challenge in it at all. 
  
  The mansion and most of the country side in Phantasmagoria is computer generated static images. 
 They look like something done by a freshman art student or worst yet one of those lame .gif animations 
 you can get as clipart. The characters don't mesh well with the virtual environments making the 
 whole thing look like an horrid remake of Tron done with horror.. Sometimes the animations don't 
 match what the character is doing such as opening a door knob, making it look even more fake. A 
 great example is when Adrienne is closing a gate. If you look close, her hand should have been 
 slammed in the gate when she closed it, but due to poor editing it passes a breakable law of physics. 
 The sound and music is very well done, providing a complete orchestrated environment, one of the 
 first ever used in a PC game. Its good to know that some of this overpriced budget went to SOME 
 good use.
  
  Phantasmagoria came during a dark time for adventure games when FMV dominated the genre. The game 
 does crash during some scenes, and the only way to get past the crash is to bypass the full scene. 
 I was impressed with the fact that the game ran from beginning to end on Vista without tweaking. 
 If you had to pick between any FMV adventure game, go with Gabriel Knight 2. It adds decent acting, 
 a great story and solid gameplay that was overlooked when producing this overpriced hunk of crap.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: KillerJuan77
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 19, 2007 11:45 am PT
Review:  Phantasmagoria is a game about a woman called Adrienne which moved with her husband Don to an huge 
 mansion. While staying in the house you discover a book which, when Adrienne opens it it unleashes 
 an evil force that possess Don.
  In the next days, Don changes his temperament and attitude and becomes an evil and disgusting man.
 
  But Adrienne starts discovering the real secrets behind the past owner, Carno.
  The game was released 12 years ago, and still it's great in this time.
  The game is full FMV, 
 so it requires 7 CD's due to bad compression on the time, it runned great on XP, and for the ones 
 who don't like a so small screen, you can use an XP installer, which is on the net.
  The graphics are only the scenarios, which looks realistic, even for this time.
  The video quality 
 isn't bad, but still it's not perfect.
  The soundtrack while being MIDI's, have great pieces like the game's theme Consumite Furore, and 
 it's greatly placed in all the moments.
  The acting is great, the actors used in the game are excellent ones.
  All these makes an excellent 
 game, which, even at the probable 60 bucks price, is worth it but...
  WARNING: the game features an great array of violent and sexual scenes.
  There are 2 sex scenes, 
 which one is considered to be a rape one, there are gory deaths which still these days are gross 
 and grotesque.
  YOU'VE BEEN WARNED! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redwing634
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 31, 2007 9:52 pm PT
Review:  Even though the graphics are highly dated, the gameplay of Phantasmagoria is still captivating. 
 For those who don't know, Phantasmagoria is a horror-ish point click adventure game. For anyone 
 who enjoys adventure games, this is a must have for your collection IF you can handle somewhat 
 disturbing scenes.
  
  The game does have the option to censor certain things that some people might find too much for 
 them. This game was made to thrill and it does just that. If you love adventure games, you should 
 play through this one at least once. And it is still playable in windows XP even though it came 
 from a time of Windows 95. Enjoy!
  
  (sometimes you miss things the 1st time around, and playing it again will enlighten you to things 
 you missed. Therefore it has a decent replayability factor) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stAmbrosius
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 13, 2007 1:44 am PT
Review:  Phantasmagoria is a point and click horror-adventure. It was a very innovative game for it's time. 
 It combines real footage with computer effects. The game has a great soundtrack and a story that 
 is interesting, but not too difficult to understand so it serves the gameplay well. You play as 
 Adrienne Delaney, a young woman who just moved into a mansion with her husband Don. Little does 
 she know about the mansion's dark past and after a while Don starts acting peculiar...
  As you progress through the chapters of the game things start getting gorier, stranger and more 
 violent as Adrienne tries to save her life. there are some glitches in the game and the special 
 effects are sometimes bad, but it's an old game., it has a lot of charm and there just aren't that 
 many horror-adventures around. Even after all this time it's still the best in it's genre. As an 
 adventure it's not too difficult and very playable. As a horror story it's great , it doesn't try 
 to be funny and it has a couple of great scenes. There also is a phantasmagoria 2, but i never 
 played because my computer was not powerful enough at the time and i hear it's not as good as this 
 one, as is usually the case with horror sequels. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 5UPERMARIO
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 18, 2006 6:26 am PT
Review:  This game is a one of a kind masterpiece. Can you think of any other game with this amount of FMV 
 sequences / adventure puzzle solving / over the top gore / and horror? Thought so. There are some 
 scenes throughout Phantasmagoria that are so crazy that no game in the past 11 years ever even 
 came close too. Many people would probably never even see them, for many of these scenes are hidden 
 throughout different locations throughout the days in the game. There is more than meets the eye 
 here, if you run through the game to beat it you will miss about 75% of the fun FMV sequences. 
 This game is about atmosphere and exploration, be sure to go off course in Phantasmagoria and check 
 everything out!
  
  + Puzzles are at a perfect level of difficulty, no walkthrough required
  + Graphics were unmatched 
 in its day, and hold up well today 10 years later
  + For gore / scare fans... this game DELIVERS!!!
  + Story is interesting and keeps you on the 
 edge of your seat
  + Opening music score is diabolic and perfect, in game sound is perfect
  + Acting is done really well by most characters in the game
  
  - The acting from the support 
 characters in this game are better than the main characters
  - The actual game is a little bit too short
  
  This is the type of game that suits me perfectly 
 and I love to play. There are only a few games out there like this one, and it saddens me that 
 10 years later this genre of video gaming is somewhat dead. In my personal opinion, we need alot 
 more games like this. There are too many resident evil and silent hill clones and not enough true 
 in your face original adventure HORROR games. I'm not sure if current computers will work well 
 with it, but if you find Phantasmagoria and love horror movies and games, buy it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wynkz
Rating: 5
Date: Apr 24, 2006 2:52 am PT
Review:  Well, what can I say about this game. The storyline for the game is quite good and is basically 
 about this couple who have moved into a masion. The mansion turns out to be haunted by the previous 
 owner, and therefore you learn of the terrible things he had done it that house, (for e. g. he murdered 
 his wives) and also Don who is part of the couple who moved into the house gets possessed and tries 
 to murder his wife. 
  Your job is to create a game strategy by following the clues and solving the puzzles. The game 
 is split into 7 chapters and you can start at the beginning of any chapter.
  Now for what I thought about the game. I thought the graphics and sound were terrible, and I know 
 its an old game but I still expected the graphics to be fairly decent. There was nothing about 
 the game that made me want to carry on, no aspect of the game gripped me or got me interested and 
 I am really dissapointed. I also thought the game was too easy. There was no real brain teaser 
 puzzles and the game itself I thought was quite bland.
  I wouldnt say that this was a really bad game, but I didnt enjoy playing it. I think this was a 
 bad creation from Sierra. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: terryprior
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 18, 2006 1:30 pm PT
Review:  Plot and Quests: The plot is simple and rather cliched, with a few interesting twists and turns 
 and several glaring plot holes. (The one I can reveal without giving anything away: the villain's 
 wives died extremely unusual violent deaths, which would have given any policeman in the country 
 no choice but to classify them as homicides. How in the hell did they keep getting declared accidents? 
 These aren't women being pushed down the stairs, here, this is Hannibal Lector sort of stuff!) 
 Like most graphical adventures, Phantasmagoria also suffers from its inflexibility. There is only 
 one way to complete each quest; no alternate endings, no choices to be made. The storyline isn't 
 bad per se, but it isn't compelling either, and the player's lack of input into it doesn't help 
 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
