-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Phantasmagoria: A Puzzle of Flesh
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/adventure/phantasmagoria2apof/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec 10, 1996
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 3.7
Critic Score: 5.6, 7 Review (s)
User Score: 6.9, 194 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Sierra Entertainment
Genre: Adventure
Date:     Nov 30, 1996

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
As the credits rolled, all I felt was regret - regret that I had spent a good chunk of my life in 
 this ugly world. 

 Sierra's Phantasmagoria, the company's first foray into the world of full-motion video adventure 
 games, met with mixed reactions. While it was a big hit commercially, reviews - both from magazines 
 and from players - were incredibly divided. Sierra's second attempt at combining their classic 
 game formula with film sequences was The Beast Within: A Gabriel Knight Mystery, which fared much 
 better and was among the best adventure games of 1996. With its extraordinary story creating a 
 truly suspenseful and frightening experience, The Beast Within made up for the mediocrity of Phantasmagoria. 

 Unfortunately, The Beast Within didn't mark the beginning of a positive trend. Phantasmagoria: A 
 Puzzle of Flesh takes giant steps back, both as a game and as an interactive experience. The film 
 quality is far superior to either of its predecessors, but technical achievements don't amount 
 to much when it seems like the story was written for the Halloween issue of a junior high school 
 newspaper.  

 First, the game - or at least what semblance of one there is. Classic Sierra puzzles are few and 
 far between here, and the few that do exist are far beyond the realms of reasonable disbelief. 
 I can only explain by example, so here goes: At the very start of the game, you must find your 
 wallet. Okay, easy enough - it's under the couch. The couch looks like it weighs about 12 pounds, 
 so what's the logical thing to do? If you guessed "have your pet rat crawl under the couch, then 
 tempt her out with a granola bar," you were right on the money. The puzzles continue on at this 
 clip, feeling tacked on and without purpose. What's worse, the game follows Sierra's traditional 
 chapter-by-chapter structure, but the tasks you must complete each day rarely move the story in 
 any direction. You must do things like show a picture of your family to a co-worker, who in turn 
 makes some very general comment that does little to further the silly story and nothing whatsoever 
 to further the game.  

 The poor quality of the puzzles would be more excusable if the film sequences were in the least 
 bit compelling. Drawing upon almost every horror clich&amp; eacute;, the game tells of Curtis Craig, 
 a technical writer who thinks he's going insane. Surrounded by a rash of murders, and pestered 
 by horrible visions and disembodied voices, he begins wondering whether he is the culprit. If his 
 visions weren't so inane, and the voices didn't sound like Fozzie Bear speaking through a flanger 
 pedal, the game might be a bit scary. As it stands, only the music of the game manages to provide 
 any mood - and Gary Spinrad's haunting score seems wasted on what amounts to a trashy, B-rate sci-fi 
 thriller. I don't wanna ruin anything for anyone planning on setting aside the 10 hours it takes 
 to finish this game, but the real answer to Curtis's hallucinations is more absurd than you will 
 ever imagine.   

 The game could have just been a no-brain gorefest, which might have been fun. The real problem is 
 not the inanity, but the attempt to bring mature issues to the table. Curtis has to visit a therapist 
 several times, and you use objects from your inventory to bring up topics of discussion, including: 
 his latent homosexuality, the physical and psychological abuse inflicted upon him by his mother, 
 watching his father get shot to death on the front lawn, and the fact that his employer is conducting 
 frightening experiments on human beings. And that's just the first session. The subjects can be 
 brought up in any order, so the sessions take on a detached, incoherent feel - especially when 
 you are giving background on a topic that has already been discussed in detail previously. The 
 attempts at pop psychology that show up throughout A Puzzle of Flesh are far more offensive than 
 any of the evisceration scenes.   

 Perhaps A Puzzle of Flesh is best summed up by my gut reaction during the conclusion. As the credits 
 rolled, all I felt was regret - regret that I had spent a good chunk of my life in this ugly world, 
 with annoying, unappealing characters and their silly problems.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (2 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Kragspire
Rating: 4.5
Date: Feb 23, 2008 11:26 am PT
Review:  I must admit I was excited to play the second Phantasmagoria game even though I had questionable 
 results with the first game. . You would think that after putting so much money into the first 
 game, Sierra would want to make sure that the second came out better. I am all for giving a series 
 a second chance, and sometimes I just can't believe I let myself waste such foolish time. Well, 
 someone has to do it, and here is the review of Phantasmagoria 2: A Puzzle of Flesh.
  
  Phantasmagoria 2 presents us with a completely new story. It feels as if it was designed by a bunch 
 of high school sci-fi geeks, with a massive exposure of ADD and addiction to poorly done X-Files 
 stories. Phantasmagoria 2 takes the route of a urban setting involving the events of Curtis "Rat-Boy" 
 Craig. It seems that Curtis is not alright in the head, as he continues to witness bizarre hallucinations. 
 Everything from his bedroom mirror to his pet rat are out to get him, telling him naughty things 
 that evoke poorly done facial expressions on Craig's behalf. This along with a clich background 
 history for any psychopath presents the player as confused and disorientated. Both of Curtis' parents 
 suffered horrible deaths, which only add to his misery. All said and done, the character is about 
 as loony as Ted Bundy dancing the cha-cha in his grandmother's panties. 
  
  Curtis also manages to hold down a full time job at a mysterious corporation. You will often times 
 go into work and interact with your co-workers, which almost all have a positive yet meaningless 
 relationship with the main character. Curtis' girlfriend is a great example, who often times is 
 about as clueless as a complete stranger when it comes to expressing true emotion or empathy towards 
 him. The other characters often times hold the same type of attitude towards Curtis, soon forgetting 
 any strange events that are spoken by the main character. It is as if the complete atmosphere is 
 one of denial and cloudlessness thought. 
  
  Gameplay? Well, don't look for much in this game. Most of the game is simple click and watch the 
 FMV. The puzzles are quite easy but often times don't make sense at all. A great example is the 
 way the game flows in general. Often times, if you do not do a simple event such as showing an 
 item to a person you cannot advance to the next chapter. Logical things are often ignored and replaced 
 with trial and error, which do nothing but drag the game forward. It is pretty easy to say that 
 the game stayed true to it's predecessor in terms of defining a lack of gameplay and pointless 
 "click and watch" format.
  
  The FMV graphics and sound quality are up to par for a game that came out during the late 1990's. 
 In fact, the FMV quality itself had been improved over previous Sierra FMV games such as the first 
 Phantasmagoria and Gabriel Knight 2. I did notice some minor issues with sound however, which presented 
 itself in the voice dialog. Sometimes out of no where the speech would speed up to an increased 
 rate, making the characters sound like chipmunks. At first I thought this was just an attempt to 
 add some disturbing voice-overs in Curtis' hallucinations, but latter found it was nothing but 
 a bug. Otherwise music and the rest is top notch, the kind of stuff you would expect from a full 
 feature film.
  
  For the lazy gamer, Phantasmagoria 2 has allot to offer with simple puzzles and lack of interaction. 
 Others who expect to become more involved in their adventure game will soon become disappointed. 
 Overall I cannot recommend Phantasmagoria 2 to anyone except die-hard Sierra adventure gamers who 
 just have to have it in their collection. In the end, you will be left with a sour taste that makes 
 you think, "So when do I get to the good parts?" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 5UPERMARIO
Rating: 2.1
Date: Dec 9, 2006 11:07 am PT
Review:  The first Phantasmagoria is one of my favourite video games of all time. It had an interesting 
 story, good acting, and a beautifully detailed huge environment to explore. Phatasmagoria 2 has 
 none of the above. I often blame this game for the drought of point and click horror adventure 
 games that occured shortly after this game was released. Its THAT bad.
  
  - Puzzles are absolutely atrocious. Very illogical and plain stupid.
  - Gameplay doesn't involve 
 player enough. Gets boring. - Acting is not even laughable, its just plain bad
  
  + Some blood / gore for the horror hound
  
  Even if you are a horror fanatic like me, it still 
 is very hard to enjoy this game. To get through the game you probably need a walktrough because 
 of the illogical puzzles, and your rewards just dont justify the time spent to dig through this 
 game. If you are looking for adventure search gamespot for another great game.
  If you are looking for horror just save your precious time and go grab a good horror movie instead. 
 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
