-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Pharaoh
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/pharaoh/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 15, 1999
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.2
Critic Score: 8.3, 31 Review (s)
User Score: 8.6, 1,302 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Sierra Entertainment
Developer: Impressions Games
Genre: Strategy
Date:     Oct 31, 1999 &raquo;  
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
While it may seem overly familiar to fans of Caesar III, it offers enough variety and innovation 
 to keep things interesting. 

 Pharaoh takes Impressions' popular Caesar III, relocates it to ancient Egypt, and adds a few welcome 
 features. Like Caesar III, Pharaoh's gameplay falls somewhere between the intensive city-management 
 of Maxis' SimCity series and the combination of city management and combat found in Blue Byte's 
 Settlers games. However, Pharaoh is neither a sequel nor an expansion to Caesar III; although many 
 of the game mechanics are identical to its predecessor, the strategy is noticeably different in 
 order to suit Pharaoh to its setting. Pharaoh is an all-around better game than Caesar III, and 
 while it may seem overly familiar to fans of that game, it offers enough variety and innovation 
 to keep things interesting.  

 The game begins simply, requiring you to create jobs and homes to attract settlers. Once your population 
 begins growing, you must make sure it has food and water, access to religious facilities, entertainment, 
 and other luxuries to attract a larger and more affluent populace. You must also ensure that your 
 people are protected by a suitably strong militia.  

 Accomplishing these goals is a complex process. Most goods require natural resources in order to 
 be produced, and many of these resources must be imported. Many of the goods must be imported as 
 well, and you must manage the distribution of these items to make sure everyone is getting enough 
 of what they need to survive and what they want to live happily. Imports can be pricey, so you 
 must also produce items for export.  

 Unlike in SimCity, management of your city in Pharaoh is a very hands-on experience. With the sole 
 exception of housing, which will upgrade itself based on nearby services, you decide exactly what 
 type of building will be placed where. Storehouses and industrial buildings must be close enough 
 to residences that goods will be easily accessible, but not so close that they lower property value. 
 The same principle applies to markets, which distribute food and luxury items to your people. Those 
 who found themselves frustrated by the inability to manage market workers' distribution routes 
 in Caesar III will be glad to know that a roadblock option has been included in Pharaoh, giving 
 you some control over where patrolling workers will walk. It's not a perfect solution - strict 
 management over their routes would still be welcome - but it certainly helps.  

 The ancient Egyptian setting of the game leads to some other interesting new features. The regular 
 flooding of the Nile River demands you produce or import enough food to last through the flood 
 season. A poor inundation can lead to bad irrigation and food shortages, so satisfying the god 
 of the flood, Osiris, becomes a top priority. The religion system in Pharaoh has also been improved 
 since Caesar III. Satisfying the gods is now a higher priority, but there are fewer gods to deal 
 with in each scenario, thereby making the process slightly less involved.  

 The primary play mode of Pharaoh is the "family" mode. You control a ruling family who must govern 
 a series of cities, each time taking on more responsibility and earning more respect. The mission-based 
 nature of this mode is interesting; instead of being a simple open-ended management simulation 
 like SimCity, in Pharaoh you have very specific goals, but these can take a long time to achieve. 
 New options and features are introduced at a rate that keeps things interesting, and the end result 
 is a game with a great deal of longevity. Those who prefer a more open-ended simulation will want 
 to play the game's "sandbox" mode, which lets you build and govern without the constraints of the 
 scenario objectives.  

 Pharaoh's missions are also more involving than those in Caesar III. Combat is still a secondary 
 element, but it is easy to control and never really becomes the focus. In most missions, you're 
 required to build monuments, and these get larger and more costly as you progress. Not only does 
 this provide a bit of tangible success to each scenario - seeing a huge pyramid completed is far 
 more satisfying than reaching some arbitrary numerical rating - but the monuments also add some 
 visual excitement to a game that otherwise looks like Caesar III with an Egyptian flavor. That's 
 not to say it looks bad; the landscape graphics may be somewhat bland, but the building graphics 
 and animations are detailed and appealing.  

 Pharaoh is only subtly different from its predecessor, but its new elements make it much deeper 
 and more satisfying. Like Caesar III, Pharaoh takes ideas from other games and combines them in 
 a way that is different and entertaining. Unlike Caesar III, the frustrations that accompany some 
 of the game's mechanics are easily dealt with. Pharaoh is slow-paced but addictive and is immensely 
 complex but incredibly easy to play.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (16 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Azwhtknight
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 12, 2008 10:25 pm PT
Review:  While this game appears to be nothing more than an average, run of the mill city building/ strategy 
 game on the surface, once you give it a chance, it will draw you in! I think this game offers a 
 unique twist to the city sim/strategy experience. The in-game controls are relatively simple to 
 grasp and provide the Pharaoh (that's you) with all the information needed to build a successful 
 kingdom. The graphics are decent for this style of game and are better than some of the other games 
 in this genre. The scenarios are fun and immersive. Time definitely has a way of getting away from 
 you when you play this game. Before you know it, you will have invested many hours in the pursuit 
 of perfection. You can select particular scenarios to play or revisit, or you can play in a "Dynasty" 
 mode and RULE THE WORLD mmwwaahhahaha.... (Egypt anyway) . During the course of the game you can 
 oversee everything from economics and politics to food procurement and distribution. The building 
 and deployment of armies is a must in order to defend your territories from invasion and to procure 
 more land in the name of the Pharaoh. This is one of my favorite games of this type and can become 
 quite addictive once I start to play it again. This game earned my respect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: quicksandgamer
Rating: 6.1
Date: Apr 18, 2007 3:30 pm PT
Review:  If you were a fan of SimCity, and what Maxis had done with the city-building genre, then you'd 
 probably bought a Sierra city-building game or two. Probably a form of Caesar first. Then when 
 you went back to the game store, you saw this - Pharaoh. It was an okay game, but if you had played 
 Zeus, or Caesar, you had already played Pharaoh. It had its own changes and flavor, and while Sierra 
 had done a good job in making its city-building games, you could never really overcome the deja-vu 
 aspect of playing Pharaoh. Even Sierra's point-click adventure games were too similar in feel. 
 Still, if you have a machine that can go back and run this, and your copy of Pharaoh is free or 
 cheap, not a bad one- or three-night game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IMgiovanna
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 30, 2006 11:28 am PT
Review:  I really enjoyed this game, although I wished it had more detail to it. The gameplay was good, 
 it was easy to learn, and the story line was excellent and true to history. As an amateur (and 
 armchair) Egyptologist, I really liked this game and found it fascinating.
  
  I would have liked to have more independence on what monuments to build and would have liked to 
 see more detail in the religious and industrial parts of the game.
  
  I played this game on and off for 2 years, spending hours upon countless hours playing it. I've 
 played every portion of the game and did freeplay as well. It is great for those days that you 
 are not too active and yet need something good to do besides watch TV, even if Egypt Week is on!
 
  
  Graphics were good, sound was great although the music, while good, got to be repetitive.
  
 
  Difficulty was variable as you could choose how hard you want your game to be. I'll mark it as 
 very easy, since it's easy to make it hard!
  
  I wish they'd make another one. I really do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SalaDin1296248
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 11, 2006 1:49 pm PT
Review:  This lovely game is not only a city building game, but it is a whole civilization building.
  
  I know that there is many games like this have been released, but this one has a special profile. 
 The pharaohs were amazing themselves.
  
  It is very lovely to control a whole city of pharaohs even their army &amp; build their city, share 
 them the heavy load of Responsibility of building a Civilization.
  
  I know it is a complicated feeling, but I score the games with my feeling. The great game is the 
 one which takes your heart and make feel you are not just playing a city building game, but makes 
 you feel you a real Pharaoh Governor on this city.
  
  The beauty of the people who listen to you and help you in building the city. A small simulator 
 for being a president on a country.
  
  I think even presidents may have to play this game. It will help them in dealing with people, when 
 you take a chance to see them in a small monitor on a computer...
  
  Thank you very much for this game... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jreyes33
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 5, 2006 4:20 pm PT
Review:  As i said it does well.... but as time goes by u can see the errors start appearin. The worst, 
 in my opinion, is the tiring sound and music of this game... when u here it for first time fo sho 
 u like it... but there's not variations nor quality in the sound... And as i've heard many people 
 find this game a truly copy of Caesar III. i don't know cause i dont own caesar titles... But in 
 the other characteristics of this game it is ok... the buildin city concept goes well and is innovative. 
 The graphics ain't completely 3D but the frames are correct for the time it was released. About 
 value: this game is ifinite... the mission's go for ages and apart u can do some customized ones 
 which extend that value... Isn't that bad
  But also isnt the perfect game we all are searchin 4 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JaMeS4418
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 14, 2006 8:01 pm PT
Review:  Ahhh the memories..... This was I think the third or so game that really got me into gaming. I 
 have contributed countless hours into this game and have enjoyed all of them. In Pharaoh you build 
 egyptian cities and have to survive, thrive, and defend. You build some of egypt's most famous 
 monuments such as the great pyramids. The cleopatra expansion was also pretty good allowing new 
 armies, monuments, and leaders to play as and is well worth the money.
  
  GRAPHICS: Ok but this game came out a long time ago so give it a break and it doesn't matter anyway
 
  
  SOUND: Egyptian music and my enemies begging for mercy
  
  VALUE: High for city builders
  
  Replayability: ok. While this is a great game i still don't 
 play it very often 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Archrivel
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 4, 2006 9:20 am PT
Review:  The Game of Pharaoh, is a interesting game to play. Fans and players of Ceaser III will reconise 
 much of that game inside Pharaoh, however saying that I feel Pharaoh is the better one but not 
 by much.
  
  The only bad there is the game does seem to get repeatative on the main story, you get the feeling 
 after doing like the first 5 missions of Been there done that. However if you play the game in 
 bits then this will solve that problem abit. 
  
  The graphics are a classic now smooth and clear for what they were back when they were new. Good 
 overall feel to the game Welcoming and friendly
  The voice menus does alot to help draw you into the game more.
  
  Over this game is one of 
 the classic good ones. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xxgamemasterxx
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 12, 2006 1:21 am PT
Review:  Once you start playing this game and had gone through a few levels. You'll find you want to carry 
 on even though its 2am in the morning. You wouldnt get bored of this game easily because you get 
 to use new things when you complete each stage. Some where later on you get to build ur own army 
 and a warship to fight invaders. I havent done that much yet but im addicted to this game. Even 
 though ur stuck, a few hours or so would make you want to play it againn to quickly complete that 
 stage and go onto the next one to see what awaits you. Im currently crap at the game but im making 
 improvements. And i found out that if you use too much cheats, your goes lower which i had my score 
 under -10,000. So dont use too much cheats, cheat when you really have to! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bogfred
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 6, 2006 12:57 pm PT
Review:  I don't know if I got a different language or something, but on the disc it says Pharaon. I still 
 think it's funny. This game is brilliant. There are tons of things to destroy your precious cities; 
 they could collapse, burn down, be subject to crime, disease, enemy attack. Even lack of a decent 
 dental plan can cause problems. As such, there are lots of things to think about. It's still a 
 pretty easy game to get the hang of though. Instead of having to go through a lenghly labourious 
 tutourial level, you learn as you play over several levels, each new concept being introduced through 
 a letter. You play through nearly eight or nine levels until everything is introduced to you. The 
 new monument system is good, and it's fun to see your army of slaves dragging 20 tonne blocks of 
 stone up a hill. WORK YOU MAGGOTS! WORK! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sefpayne
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 19, 2006 7:40 am PT
Review:  This was one of the first city building games that i played and seeing as i am into acient egypt, 
 this game appealed to me quite alot. Although it may not be as complex as say sim city, it has 
 all the elements of city building that you could expect and maybe more.
  
  The campaign mode helps you to practice the games basic controls and doesnt take a long time to 
 master. The simplicity of this game is what i loved and using this to create a giant city may have 
 taken a while, but it is thoroughly satisfying to do. I have had the game since the release date 
 and i have never been bored of it until today. There are always different ways to construct your 
 cities with a wide variety of homes, monuments and work places. 
  
  There is alot to do in this game and with the added variety of the RTS mode, it can appeal to an 
 even larger audiance. I highly recommend this to any RTS fan or to any city building fan. It is 
 truly a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pharaohfreak
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 5, 2006 6:41 am PT
Review:  Many people don't understand how to keep their city safe. It burns to the ground, everything collapses, 
 the citizens have malaria and much more. Or they can't trade with other city's. There are special 
 maps in which you can see what RISC there is in which house or building. You can use them by clicking 
 on the title ' special maps' , above the map at the right side of the in-game screen. You can select 
 other sub maps, like fire risk and malaria. I guess its not difficult to understand what you need 
 to avoid fire and disease. If you can't trade with a certain other city, well so be it. Thats part 
 of the game. You can't trade with all the city's.
  
  I like the game so much because it is really realistic. Before, I used to play "Age Of Empires 
 2: The Age Of Kings", but it isn't real enough. I would say : buy it if you can! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maulica
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jan 22, 2006 9:05 am PT
Review:  Zeus is better than caesar three and pharaoh and cleopatra . When I say better i mean that it is 
 better in the graphics area . I think that caesar three was the best . As i can remember , it did 
 not have as an option a tab where you could choose your most appropriate level of difficulty , 
 so I tried for weeks to pass a mission . As a plus , Zeus and poseidon have a really interesting 
 and challenging tutorial ( you can learn everything from it) . 
  For example I learned how to use the road blocks , I do not know if they worked the same in pharaoh 
 and cleopatra ( I can not remember if Caesar 3 had them ) . 
  As a minus - Zeus and Poseidon - are not as difficult , but it takes you a while to get over an 
 episode. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: heatherceana
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 25, 2005 12:55 pm PT
Review:  This game lets you build cities of ancient Egypt, including various monuments. The developers went 
 out of their way to make this an historically accurate game. It covers the various periods of pre-Arabic 
 Egyptian History, not just the Old, Middle, and New Kingdoms with Intermediate periods. 
  
  The cities available for play, and as trading partners, vary based on the period of time in which 
 you are playing. The monuments you may build are also period dependent. 
  
  This game contains an excellent tutorial that is interwoven with the game itself. Your city will 
 be capable of producing certain goods, based upon your temporal and spacial proximity - due to 
 raw resources available. You can both buy and sell with other cities along established trade routes. 
 You will be required to provide certain goods, or troops, to the pharaoh, if you are not he. There 
 is a time limit on these and the sooner you comply, the greater your reward. The gods will intervene 
 on your behalf if you appease them with shrines, festivals, and temples. Beware: if you do not 
 appease the gods, they may intervene in a negative manner and you'll find your people suffering 
 for your over-sight. 
  
  You'll want to try different lay-outs of residential and commercial areas of your cities. As you 
 advance through the history of your family, you'll learn the advantage of limiting the number of 
 houses in a cluster and of leaving a bit of extra space here and there for future development. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: suzabbe
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 17, 2005 3:55 pm PT
Review:  Think Age of Mythology but just in Egypt! Egyptian mythology even tops Roman and Norse in my book 
 so I had to get this game. "Build a Kingdom. Rule the Nile. Live Forever" the slogan of the game 
 best describes it. Build your patch of land from a farmers' paradise to a full and rich Kingdom 
 of circa 2,500 BC. Learn to use the Nile and watch out for killer hippos. A major key to this game 
 is trade. You must trade with your neighboring cities and towns or you will perish. Living on the 
 Nile has it's benefits but also has it's downside, not much can grow in sand so use your money 
 wisely and research your trade partners before opening a trade route. Fish, hunt, buy and make 
 pottery, build a brewery for your hard working class and a conservatory for the wealthy to be entertained 
 by dancers, jugglers and musicians. Build an army to protect your city from outsiders and a palace 
 to house your gold. As your city builds you'll become more and more induced by the bustling of 
 your little people. This is another strategy game that takes a long time commitment on your part 
 to play but it is worth it. 
  
  Gameplay  9 (Click and Drag with easy menus) 
  Graphics  8 (Typical strategy God's-eye view) 
  Sound  9 (Good effects sounds especially as 
 your city grows) 
  Playability  10 (Without a doubt)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Onthehunt
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 17, 2004 2:59 pm PT
Review:  I've had this game ever since it came out and still it is fun to play. Can get little complex at 
 times managing the city and keeping your people as well as the Gods happy. But with the things 
 you can build such as monuments you get alot of satisfaction after a building a city you see as 
 awe inspiring with monuments pyramids etc... another good thing i think is replay value you can 
 play it over and over and in my opinion it never really gets old. Never played children of the 
 nile so i can't compare it to that but this seems to be a classic to me. Great graphics easy game 
 play and most of all seeing a massive city you built practically starting with nothing can bring 
 great satisfaction as well as many hours of gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DemonKyoto
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 21, 2004 10:19 pm PT
Review:  Introduction: Pharaoh is a simulation city building game, from the makers of the Caesar series. 
 You are set in Ancient Egypt and have to build up your mighty kingdom from scratch. Being a lover 
 of Ancient Egypt, i have a special fondness for this game. A while after Pharaoh was released, 
 an expansion pack was also made, Cleopatra, which expands the abilities of the game greatly, adding 
 to the fun that is playing god and Pharaoh of Egypt.
  
  Gameplay: In Pharaoh, you have 2 main modes of play. You can either complete missions, building 
 up your city, completing specific requirements, or, you can just begin building carefree. You are 
 given a plot of land, its size depending, and you must build your Empire on it. You need to building 
 the housing and infrastructure of your city, providing them with places to farm, fish, and work, 
 along with places of worship and government. With new additions to the city, the housing will upgrade, 
 allowing even more people to move in and live happily under your care. As in the real Egyptian 
 life, your main goal in casual play is to build monuments, such as the Sphinx, or Pyramids. Watching 
 your monuments being built it quite a little spectical to watch. Unfortunately, after the monuments 
 have been built and all of the land in your region has been used up.. thats pretty much all that 
 you can do, besides watch the people work and live.
  
  Story: There is not much of a story to the game, except with the fact of having to build up a great 
 Egyptian empire.
  
  Graphics and Sound: The graphics are fairly good for this game. Everything looks very realistic 
 Egyptian-wise. My only complaint is the comparable size. One small building can hold say, 10 people, 
 but when you see the people, there bigger then the building, but that is not supposed to be realistic, 
 so all in all, no complaints. As for the sounds, they are great. There is numerous scores of music 
 that play during the game, many of which sound very good, and you'll grow to love them.
  
  Replayability: This game has definate replay ability. After successfully making your empire, you'll 
 crave wanting to make another. Thats the powers of the city building series, you get addicted to 
 playing god.
  
  Final Recommendation: All in all, i find Pharaoh to be a fairly entertaining game. Its a great 
 city building game, and very addictive. I give Pharaoh a score of 8/10. Mind you, i would have 
 given it a higher mark, but i have not played its expansion pack Cleopatra, so i am just rating 
 the base game. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
