-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Pirates of the Burning Sea
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/rpg/piratesoftheburningsea/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Epic 48-player sea battles are among the most thrilling moments to be found in the genre.
 Naval combat mechanics are tactical and compelling.
 Quests are well written and contribute to the overarching political climate.
 The relationship between the player-driven economy, PVP combat, and national allegiance is intricate and well balanced.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Steep learning curve, particularly where the economy is concerned.
 Ground combat isn't very good.
 Some interface quirks and other minor issues.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Feb 27, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8
Critic Score: 7.6, 33 Review (s)
User Score: 6.9, 943 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Sony Platform Publishing
Developer: Flying Lab Soft.
Genre: Historic Online...
Date:     Jan 21, 2008
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
If you can overlook Pirates of the Burning Sea's steep learning curve, you'll be rewarded with some 
 of the most unforgettable moments in any online RPG. 

  Pirates of the Burning Sea isn't World of Warcraft with swashbuckling. In fact, if we were forced 
 to draw comparisons between Flying Lab Software's massively multiplayer role-playing game and another 
 title, it would be EVE Online. Like EVE, Pirates is a complex game featuring an intricate supply-line 
 economy -- and like its galactic counterpart, its rewards aren't always immediate or obvious. No, 
 it takes a while for the game to wriggle into your psyche. This isn't because the early hours aren't 
 fun -- they are -- but because there's a bit of a learning curve to conquer before the pieces all fall 
 into place. That might be enough to turn away players expecting immediate gratification, which 
 is a shame, because Pirates of the Burning Sea is a special, and specialized, game that rewards 
 you with some of the finest moments the genre has to offer.  

           Naval combat is exciting and strategic...      

  The year is 1720, and three nations 
 are protecting their interests in the Caribbean while struggling with the constant threat of pirates 
 (and one another) . As you would expect, you'll align yourself with one of these entities -- either 
 Spain, France, England, or Pirate -- and choose a profession. If you're a pirate, piracy is the only 
 profession available, but aligning yourself with a nation opens up the naval officer, privateer, 
 and freetrader professions. The style of play each profession favors is more or less obvious from 
 its title: Officers excel on the high seas, privateers are talented adventurers, and freetraders 
 serve as the backbone of the player-driven economy. Don't take this to mean that your role is as 
 rigid as you would expect in another MMOG, though, since regardless of your profession, you can 
 participate and succeed at all types of combat and trade. This is an important distinguishing feature, 
 because you'll never need to pigeonhole yourself into a traditional RPG role.  

  Pirates eases you into its more sophisticated facets while keeping you entertained with a variety 
 of well-designed quests, utterly fantastic sea battles, and somewhat disappointing ground combat. 
 The basic questing structure doesn't offer anything unexpected: You chat with various non-player 
 characters, receive a solo or group quest, and then travel to the necessary location to fulfill 
 the task at hand. Sure, many of these are kill-this-and-deliver-that missions, but they stand apart 
 from the usual generic mainstays thanks to well-written dialogue and common narrative threads that 
 contribute to the game's overarching political tug of war. NPCs don't feature full speech, but 
 the stories they relate in text when receiving quests lend them a good amount of character, from 
 captains seeking revenge on their archenemies to drunken swains vicariously living off of your 
 high-seas exploits.  

  You'll find yourself looking forward to completing quests that send you to sea, simply because 
 battles in your ship are epic in scope and beautifully paced. An enormous vessel takes time to 
 navigate across the undulating waves of the Caribbean Sea, but sea battles are leisurely enough 
 to feel realistic while avoiding any feeling of sluggishness. Waging a sea battle is arguably the 
 finest aspect of the game, as each tactical aspect of the battle demands your attention. You first 
 need to be conscious of wind direction, as it dramatically impacts traveling speed. You also need 
 to ensure your cannons are facing your target or you won't be able to fire them, but you also simultaneously 
 need to protect each side of your ship from damage. Weighing your options in battle thus requires 
 a good amount of finesse. Do you focus on maneuverability and turning speed to avoid damage at 
 the expense of offensive prowess? Do you take the time to change ammo (a protracted task) and risk 
 taking the cannon out of commission temporarily?  

  You can equip your ship with a variety of different ammunition, depending on whether you want to 
 damage your opponent's sails, hull, or crew -- and each type of damage benefits you and your group. 
 This leads to some terrific team-oriented play, with one player focusing on slowing down enemy 
 crafts with another diminishing crew numbers in preparation for boarding. Boarding is an early 
 key to success in Pirates of the Burning Sea, though it focuses on the least interesting aspect 
 of the game: hand-to-hand combat. You need to be close to an enemy ship and traveling at a slow 
 speed to grapple it, and success isn't always guaranteed. Once you've grappled the enemy, however, 
 you and your crew board the ship and participate in a somewhat messy melee that hardly caters to 
 the game's strengths.  

           ... but the boarding combat? Not so much.      

  Flying Lab certainly tried to add some punch to melee combat with the balance and initiative meters. 
 More damaging attacks require balance, which is built up by performing relatively weak preparatory 
 strikes, while finishing moves require initiative, which also builds up over time. There are also 
 different schools of swashbuckling from which you can earn skills, such as dirty fighting and fencing. 
 Yet these options, as interesting as they sound, can't rescue avatar combat. While ship combat 
 finds just the right balance of deliberate pace and nail-biting excitement, melee battles move 
 too slowly and look and feel dull. Some visual panache would have gone a long way toward spicing 
 things up, but the lackluster graphics and sound of hand-to-hand combat will have you avoiding 
 it whenever feasible.  

  Both types of combat fit into an overarching player-versus-player mechanic that's as awesome as 
 it is intimidating. As you complete quests at certain ports, you also contribute to regional unrest, 
 which results in a gradual breakdown of opposing national control. Once a region has become unstable 
 enough, pirates can move in for the kill, creating PVP hot zones that make open-sea travel treacherous 
 and further break down port control. After several days of real-time unrest, the original port 
 owner and contesting nation battle it out in an epic 48-ship battle usually (but not necessarily) 
 involving the players that contributed most to their nation during the contesting period. This 
 is where each element of the game comes together in a glorious showdown that shines in contrast 
 to the often lackluster PVP systems of its peers, and sets the bar for future MMOG designers. Your 
 first gargantuan battle is likely to be one of your most memorable online gaming moments, featuring 
 dozens of hulking ships attacking one another in a rollicking oceanic ballet. It's also a remarkably 
 well-balanced structure in which players of any level and profession can make a difference, thanks 
 to the unique features of ship combat. In a genre in which the best, most thrilling moments are 
 generally reserved for top-level players, being able to see Pirates of the Burning Sea's finest 
 feature without having to grind for a hundred hours is a breath of fresh air.     

   

  Once a nation has conquered enough territory, ports revert to their original owners and you do 
 it all over again. Your reasons for capturing ports go well beyond simple national pride, however. 
 Certain valuable resources are only available at particular ports, which makes being able to control 
 them key to controlling the complex player-driven economy. Pirates of the Burning Sea falters a 
 bit here, since learning how to take advantage of resources and port warehouses is a bit mind-boggling 
 at first, and the manufacturing interface is hardly intuitive. Yet once you've got a handle on 
 its intricacies, you can take advantage of them to rake in some serious cash, which can be used, 
 in turn, to buy new ships or upgrade existing ones. You can also craft items out of raw goods and 
 put them up for sale on the game's auction houses, which handily averages out standard prices for 
 that particular item so that you can make an educated bid.  

           Unstable regions are best avoided unless you're prepared to fight.      

  Pirates 
 of the Burning Sea has been, for the most part, stable during our testing period. However, it has 
 suffered from its share of launch pangs and occasional lag, and throws some unnecessary obstacles 
 into the mix. Even after a very recent patch, attempting dialogue with a few NPCs results in strings 
 of code rather than actual dialogue. At other times, the game suffers from graphical bugs, ranging 
 from texture load-in to missing geometry and disappearing water shaders. The general interface 
 is also rather clunky, making it a hassle to identify quest locations, or even to manage chat channels. 
 None of these factors make the game fare any worse than most other MMOGs during their initial launch 
 periods, but they are drawbacks worth noting.  

  Though the game servers feel underpopulated, there's a good deal of community support for the game, 
 best exemplified by content-creation options that allow players to create original flag and sail 
 patterns, and then submit them for in-game use. We proudly created a flag and eagerly watched as 
 other players voted on its quality. Sadly, taking advantage of this feature is limited to power 
 users, since there are some stringent design requirements, and you will need to use a third-party 
 graphical design program like Adobe Photoshop to create them. A simplified in-game creation system, 
 like that employed in Guild Wars for capes, would have been a welcome feature, since it wouldn't 
 exclude so many from participating in this interesting facet of the game. It's also worth noting 
 that once you create your design, you still have to purchase it in-game in order to apply it to 
 your own ships -- an odd design choice indeed.  

  Aside from the aforementioned visual glitches, Pirates of the Burning Sea looks pretty good, if 
 not exactly up to recent PC gaming standards, and the contrast between the tremendous marine battles 
 and unspectacular ground combat translates somewhat into the visuals. The water is truly beautiful 
 and surges convincingly when you are out at sea, which makes the unrealistic way in which it meets 
 the shoreline stick out. Ship designs are also lovely, but player avatars are somewhat flat -- though 
 it's worth noting that you can dress them up in a variety of fun and interesting ways. Unfortunately, 
 ports aren't much to look at and suffer from bland street and wall textures. In fact, while you'd 
 think that a game taking place at such a colorful time in history would feature over-the-top animations, 
 replete with swashbuckling deeds of derring-do, character models are stiff and lifeless. Overall, 
 the game doesn't look bad, and it runs well on a variety of machines -- it just doesn't meet the 
 joy of its setting with an equally enthusiastic presentation.  

           Get used to grappling. It's often easier to take down a crew on foot than to sink their 
 vessel.      

  The same can be said of the sound design, though it has its delights. Again, the dichotomy between 
 ordinary landlubbing and oceanic exhilaration is apparent, with naval battles coming to life with 
 the din of cannons and the warble of waves. On-foot combat is less interesting to hear, but the 
 battle cries of your crew always are done well, even if they signal enthusiasm for a thrill that 
 never arrives. The music isn't bad though, and exploring ports reveals minor delights, like a barside 
 flute player entertaining patrons or a dockside fiddler providing some jaunty atmosphere.  

  If you're looking for an MMOG that offers instant rewards, you will probably find Pirates of 
 the Burning Sea's learning curve daunting, but it's worth getting the hang of, because the game 
 showers you with gifts the more you play it. Here is, finally, an online RPG that takes the grand-scheming 
 economics and PVP of EVE and shrinks it into a manageable form, without forcing you to sacrifice 
 the joy of exciting combat in the process. If you've been looking for something a little bit different 
 and a lot more complex than the usual fare, you should give Pirates of the Burning Sea a good, 
 hard look.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (77 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: nachofoot
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 12, 2009 1:50 pm PT
Review:  So... in my boredom of playing NF, I cruised over to Fileplanet to check out new demos. Apparently, 
 Pirates of the Burning Sea have started free trials since the last time I checked. I was thinking 
 "pirate game for kids" just like Pirates of the Caribbean Online but its a bit different. Pvp and 
 port battles (think harbor assault) are the main focus in the game and occur daily instead of weekly. 
 The economy is close in comparison to Eve but with a limiting factor on nation fighting for certain 
 key ports that are able to produce what you need.
  
  In my general review of the combat systems during the trial, I found the sword combat sometimes 
 laggy but decent. They updated it in the past week before I joined so I didn't get to see their 
 old system which was criticized. In contrast, ship combat is absolutely beautiful. I've never seen 
 a game with such exquisite water effects that could run on just a decent system. The ship models 
 are superb and include visible damage and views of your crew performing tasks on the ship. Among 
 my favorite features included modifying the design of the ship by adding my own flag and sail designs 
 to my ship for others to see.
  
  The trial does restrict you but it allows you leeway enough to get a feel for the game after 1-2 
 days of play. The learning curve is steep like Eve with larger ships of the line often taking months 
 to complete solo yet attainable for small societies/guilds that cooperate. Fortunately, these ships 
 are often destroyed as quickly as they are produced leaving room for the solo player to compete. 
 It's worth giving it a shot at least. It was free to try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XadeVD2
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 5, 2009 2:25 pm PT
Review:  Like many people out there, I was very excited with this game was announced many years ago. I remember 
 when it was supposed to be available exclusively on Steam in 2004 or 2005. I was hoping for a game 
 that would be like Sid Meier's Pirates but online of course. Pirates of the Burning Sea has great 
 sea battles and the best PVP I have played in any MMO game. Flying Lab got at least two parts of 
 the game right. The rest unfortunately, is broken. Avatar combat is absolutely terrible and the 
 quests are boring and repetitive. The game did recently revamp the avatar combat but I think it's 
 a little too late for that to help the game get new subscribers. A lack of players is also a fatal 
 flaw with this game. Since the economy is player run, how do you buy ammo and upgrades when everyone 
 who makes them quits the game? You could play this game for hours and not even see another player. 
 It you don't join a society you will feel like you are the only person in the entire game world. 
 Pirates of the Burning Sea has very high system requirements for a MMO game. I don't know why you 
 need a dual core processor and a gig of ram to run a game with graphics so outdated. I often joke 
 with a friend that Flying Lab spent all their development money on making the ocean look pretty. 
 The water effects are certainly the most beautiful I have seen since Oblivion but pretty water 
 doesn't make the game fun. Maybe someday a developer out there will make a great pirate MMO game, 
 but for now steer clear of this doomed game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ajbcase35
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 18, 2008 5:53 am PT
Review:  I was very excited about the release of this game and was very disappointed. It looks like I wasn't 
 the only one, just look at the price now. I bought the game for 60 bucks now it's under 20. they 
 should make it free. flying lab really dropped the ball on this one. I hate the gameplay the controls 
 suck and it's an all around terrible game. I played voyage century for a long time and stopped 
 when this came out, well, I'm back on voyage century and never get bored with it. This game I was 
 bored in a week played a liitle longer to give it a chance hoping it would get better was completely 
 disappointed. come see me on dagama cook server on voyage century online. It is free to play and 
 blows this game out of the water. (no Pun Intended) my in game name is Steeler in the guild BloodyPirate. 
 stop by and say hello. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CGavin
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 25, 2008 9:45 am PT
Review:  I was one of the many who played POTBS right before Conan came out. Basically biting my time to 
 switch to Conan once it was released and that is exactly what I did. When I first played POTBS 
 I wasn't overly impressed the highest level I got to was level 16 and Conan came out I canceled 
 my subscription immediately.
  
  Now, after the Conan craze.. I found Conan to be a waste of time so, I decided to give POTBS a new 
 look. 
  
  Once I put forth the effort I found that although flawed in some places POTBS is a great game. 
 With a great community. I joined a Society (guild) and they have been nothing but helpful with 
 my progression.
  
  The main focal point of this game is PVP. The French, English, Spain and Pirates all compete in 
 controlling ports in the Caribbean. I am not going to get into great depth on how the game picks 
 the winner of the PVP map, but I will tell you that everyone no matter what level can contribute 
 to the effort. Which makes it fun and meaningful for everyone.
  
  The quests in the game do lack substance and for the most part can be skipped entirely if you desire.
 
  
  The economy is in very high inflation right now which is bad BUT as long as you are in a good Society 
 the port auction housed can be overlooked because nearly everything in the game is character created. 
 If you need a ship find a Shipwright to build it for you. If you want to build your own ships then 
 build the desired means to do so. 
  
  Its a very satisfying thing to build your own ships and provide for yourself as well. 
  
  I 
 think POTBS has came a long way since it was initially released and deserves a second chance from 
 some you.
  
  Currently I am playing on the Antigua server on the French side by the name of Swanson Longshanks. 
 If you are thinking about playing again or a new player send me a tell and I will get you help.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: markwal
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 21, 2008 12:15 pm PT
Review:  To complicated plain and simple. Too many buffs to remember to many consumables to keep straight 
 and dont even get me started on the sword fighting. Horrible camera angles. Customer service 
 is awful. Example Ruddy Cove on Rackham has had an invisible pvp bubble for days straight and they 
 still havent fixed it. Game is full of Bugs. The economy is terrible because so few people 
 play the game because of the bugs and the pvp anywhere. 
  Terribly unbalanced. Example Pirates are out gunned at least 4 to one. They cant even make 
 a rated ship but can steal if you lucky its like winning the lottery and usually after you 
 steal it the National you stole it from quits the game because they take months to build the ship. 
 If youre going to waste your time on this game play a national, youll have better 
 ships and better buffs. Not to mention access to freetrader skills which will help your econ a 
 lot. Its call pirates of the burning sea but the only burning is the pirates ships in port 
 battles and pvp as a pirate you are severally handicapped in battle and in the economy. They even 
 reduce loot drops if youre a pirate. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: booboobradley
Rating: 4
Date: Jul 29, 2008 12:38 am PT
Review:  Eventually all mmorpgs get boring after awhile but, I played through the trial, got to the level 
 cap, bought the game, and soon after I noticed the repetition in the quests and a huge gap in the 
 main story quest, and the quests made you go into pvp zones with level caped people waiting to 
 gank you and steal about everything you have. I also tried two different factions and their main 
 story quests and all of their xp grinding quests were basically the same with some tweaked text. 
 The pvp is merciless also if your a noob to it and you wander into a pvp zone your going to get 
 hunted down get killed without a choice lose most if not all your stuff and your ship. The good 
 side though is that the auction house system is pretty good, and the trading classes are good also 
 for everyone except for pirates. Its not worth 50 dollars in my opinion, but if your into pirates 
 or if your tired of another mmo try to get a trial key. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Supreme_Scheme
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 25, 2008 5:05 am PT
Review:  its just like world of warcraft but with pirates, i love pirates so this game is just what a pirate 
 lover should have in his or hers collection. you can choose from being a pirate to being a navy 
 officer for some country. one dissipointing thing is that even if you choose to be a pirate or 
 in the navy you get the same missions. but the game is lots of fun and worth every penny. what 
 i like most is the diffrent typ of characters you can make and their clothings very well done. 
 You can create your own flag and sails to your ship and there is even more i havent come to yet. 
 There is 3 different kind of fencing and a whole lot of ships to choose from ofcourse you must 
 be in the right level to own better ships. Also you have a economy part of the game where you can 
 dig for iron or gold there is plentations for suger and tobaco you can build your own shipyard 
 and build ships the game is plain simple great! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crush_Project
Rating: 2
Date: Jun 21, 2008 2:31 pm PT
Review:  Where to start? There is just so much negativity with this game its hilarious.
  
  First off the missions in this game are all incredibly similar. Theres MASSIVE bugs all over the 
 place, somehow they made the biggest and bulkiest (ie heaviest ships) are also the fastest ships 
 in the game, so once your spotted by a bigger fish your dead.
  
  they somehow added a stealth system into the game (for ships?) which seems to be much more important 
 then the actual pvp (whoevers biggest wins, altho there are an abundance of morons that may give 
 you kills you dont deserve that can save you sometimes) . The low end players can not escape the 
 fast ships of the older players once they've been sighted, there are pvp zones, but you can still 
 be attacked anywhere, and the only way to level without being ganked (even in the noob areas) is 
 by being with a society (or guild) .
  
  The only real way to buy or sell things is through the auction house, but they dont display any 
 real pricing information, so you have to mostly guess as the prices they want you to pay.
  
  Travel is slow, but not altogether unexpected in a ship game or an mmo, but still a frustrating 
 experience.
  
  The production system is actually alot more limited then i had been lead to believe, and you can 
 only have 10 building slots up per server and many of the production buildings you'll need take 
 up multiple slots.
  
  At the begining there seemed to be alot this game has to offer, but the more i played the more 
 i hated it. I got the impression i was playing a beta that never should have been put into production 
 due to inherit gameplay flaws.
  
  Normally this is the part where i try and put in the positives about the game, but theres not anything 
 that comes to mind. I guess the cannon fire looks okay, but really isnt anything write home about, 
 and the rest of the graphics are 'average' at best.
  
  Sry potbs, i really tried to like you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kailii
Rating: 6
Date: May 3, 2008 4:19 pm PT
Review:  Looking back at the POTBS Beta and before, there was word about an MMORPG where you would not pick 
 up the hat or beard of your avatar but his ship.
  It looked good and felt good for any of us knowing port from starboard side. But then unfortunately 
 the Virus hit, the unavoidable Virus known as WoW. So "Captain's in Port!" had to be included literally, 
 but this part was rushed through for sure.
  
  I don't know. Maybe the last time i saw rubberbanding, teleporting and choppy graphics that bad 
 was when i played the Anarchy Online Beta when dinosaurs ruled the Earth. Even the Quests fall 
 in line with this total failure, as most of them urged you to avoid the harbor as much as possible.
 
  
  On the high seas however, POTBS shines brightely by combining roleplay elements with ship or weapon 
 loadout choices, all under the hood of a well designed GUI.
  
  I must confess that this game is not for me, as i expect more deepness from any MMORPG plunging 
 the waves so to say, but if you're interested to know how Akellas Pirate games would fare in the 
 MMO market i shall give you the advice to take a shot at it.
  
  A chainshot it has to be however, accepting weaknesses while enjoying the parts well done.
  
 
  A score of 6 out of 10 seems to be in order. Could have been a solid 8+ if the in-port kadoodle 
 had been avoided though. Just because it feels too much like any given korean type MMO grindaway.
 
  
  Watch your stern! ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Grotius
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 14, 2008 11:04 pm PT
Review:  PoTBS brings one thing to the table no other MMO has -- a great ship combat system. You blast away 
 at other ships with chain shot, bar shot, round shot, grape shot, etc; you have to tack into the 
 wind (or jibe before it) ; you can board enemy ships; and it's all rendered in splendid 3D graphics.
 
  
  The economic game is entertaining too. Most items (including ships) are player-made, and it's fun 
 to gather stuff and build things. What's more, the economy is tied to the larger PvP universe, 
 which adds interest. If your faction doesn't control strategic ports, it will pay more to produce 
 things, as it will have to pay higher taxes on goods and raw materials coming from enemy ports.
 
  
  Would that the swashbuckling game were as interesting. Land missions are terribly repetitious. 
 There are maybe a half-dozen maps on which you do land combat: a jungle; a beach; a warehouse; 
 a fort; on board a ship. You'll see the same danged jungle a dozen times by level 20. If the tactics 
 of land combat were more interesting, I might not mind so much, but WoW has nothing to worry about 
 here.
  
  The game disappoints in other ways too. The game world doesn't offer much in the way of exploration, 
 and I do like to explore. Yes, there are several dozen ports, but they occasionally use the same 
 layout, and in any case most of them are pretty small. The PvP endgame is fun, but PvP alone doesn't 
 keep me hooked on an MMO. And in the late 20s, the level grind began to feel like... a level grind.
 
  
  All in all, PoTBS does bring some unique things to the genre, and for that reason alone it deserves 
 praise. If the devs can broaden the gameworld and add spice to land combat, I might give it another 
 look. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zanduar
Rating: 5
Date: Apr 7, 2008 12:43 pm PT
Review:  Pirates of the Burning Sea was a highly watched game when it was first announced. Gamers were clamoring 
 for a pirate based MMO after the recent success of Sid Meyer's Pirates!. The Pirates of the Caribbean 
 movies added to the pirate popularity. Flying Lab Software, the developers of PotBS added in such 
 features as using player designed ships, crew customization, etc. Things were looking up.
  
  Unfortunately those who experienced closed beta, stress tests, open beta and release can attest 
 to a rather flawed game that gets boring after three months. The many basics required of a game, 
 let alone an MMO are not there. 
  
  When first starting the game you are given the choice of three nations; French, British or Spanish 
 OR the option to play as a pirate. The three classes for nationals are Freetrader, Naval Officer 
 and Privateer. Pirate is its own unique class. This would seem to give an average amount of varied 
 played styles to use; however, instead the player finds themselves not enjoying their class.
  
  Naval Officers are the tank. They have bonuses for defense and refire rate.
  Privateers are 
 hit and run. They have bonuses for speed and repair.
  Freetraders are the economy. They have bonuses for escape and trading.
  Pirates are a mix of 
 all three.
  
  While playing these classes a player is generally reminded that their character is barely different 
 from anyone else's. Most of the skills are the same. While the Freetrader goes get the short end 
 of the stick when it comes to combat it is most likely the most balanced class. You can fight but 
 you'll probably just end up running. Naval Officers can tank but since most battles are based on 
 giving broad sides their isn't a need to try speed anyhow. Privateers usually disable their opponents 
 but their extra speed is only useful when running away or catching up to an enemy. Pirates have 
 the best skills but when it comes to overall gameplay they get snuffed.
  
  That is a major complaint from most Pirate players. The way the global victory conditions work 
 is based on capturing enemy ports. Capturing enemy ports is something that Pirate players can't 
 do permanently. So they are left with uber-skilled characters that will never win a map. To capture 
 or defend a port you attack enemy ships. However the spawn rates for enemy ships is usually incredibly 
 slow. The higher level enemy NPCs give more points towards flipping a port so higher level ports 
 flip much faster then lower level ports. It is near impossible to defend a port through attacking 
 enemy NPCs because they DO NOT spawn at friendly ports.
  
  To fix these problems Flying Lab Software (FLS) implemented a new game mechanic after release called 
 economic turn ins. FLS didn't balance test these changes enough and it lead to an incredibly exploitable 
 situation. One that as of this review still exists. Where an enemy port could be swamped with trade 
 in items, flipping the port into PVP and preventing any chance at defense. Just another exploit 
 in a long list of exploits that are still in game. 
  
  FLS also ignored basic needs for an MMO. Instant inventory transfer doesn't exist, not even to 
 put goods on your ship. The avatar (ground based/swashbuckling) combat is horrible and feels more 
 like a chore. This is especially annoying when having to respawn over and over to kill a single 
 enemy or mob of foes. Mob is more appropriate as PotBS uses what is called the "hate" system. Enemies 
 hate you more as you attack their friends. Unfortunately both in single player and multi player 
 situations this leads to one player being swamped by every near by enemy. A typical boarding battle 
 begins with the character standing over the battlefield. When they step onto the deck every enemy 
 immediately dives for the player.
  
  Guild systems (called societies in PotBS) don't exist beyond belonging to a society and leaders 
 being able to send mass mail. There are no society warehouses, no way to track log in rates, kills, 
 points, etc. No meta-game devices. FLS failed to realize that players want to escape. Players do 
 not want to experience the grueling life of being in the era of pirates.
  
  This leads to most of the gameplay being simply sailing from one place to another which takes an 
 unnecessarily long time. While sailing any enemy NPCs within ten miles will immediately attack 
 you. Most enemies within your visible distance are aware you are there and half the time will attack. 
 This includes enemies well below your level and well above it. So while one moment you might have 
 to deal with an enemy twice your level; the next may involve chasing after an enemy half the player's 
 level (or lower) who has now decided to run rather then die.
  
  So far the game sounds rather bad. Make no mistake in the end it is but in the end what FLS did 
 do right was ship combat. Unlike other point and click MMOs the fight is active. Switching between 
 skills, firing broadsides and moving the ship makes sure that it is impossible to simply sit and 
 attack. While macros can allow non-thinking fights, most of the combat requires a human player. 
 
  
  Pirates of the Burning Sea was a promising game. There are many gameplay mechanics that were actually 
 removed that could have added to what little there was; however, these added details don't have 
 the basics upon which a game must be built. For a basement development company FLS has done extraordinary 
 work but that work took six years. Had they simply built the game engine and left the actual design 
 to someone else the game may have taken a more positive direction.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jaqknife
Rating: 4
Date: Mar 31, 2008 10:52 am PT
Review:  RPG element is lacking. Missions are repetitive with only a few varieties of mission types. FLS 
 is starting to implement new epic type missions that are more involved and are a spinoff of RAID 
 type missions familiar in other MMO's. However getting to level 50 can be a grind. Especially if 
 you tend to play solo. 
  
  Societies are lacking familair tools for society management that other MMO's have e. g. ( last log 
 on, society warehouse, society auction house) . Societies cannot declare war on each other either. 
 However you can make custom sails and flags for you or the society members to sail around with. 
 
  
  PvP has two parts. The first part is on the open ocean where you and your buddies can drive up 
 contention around an enemy port. Then a big red circle shows up on the map. Anyone sailing into 
 the circle is fair game for anyone to attack. The second part is when there is enough contention 
 a port battle is schedule for 46 hours later. This is where you hope that both sides bring enough 
 ships for this to be a fun fight. Up to 24 ships per side can join in a port battle. However if 
 one side or the other decides to bailout then the battle turns out to be quiet the let down.
  
  The economy is huge and can be fun for people who like to dive into the intricacies of ship 
 building. However it can be very overwhelming to new players trying to learn the economy. Several 
 outside sources of information have to be utilized to full understand the economy e. g. (spreadsheets 
 on fan sites, profit and cost calculators) .
  
  In the end this might be a great game in the future with enough development time to iron out all 
 the kinks. However right now it seems that it was a great idea that was implemented with only half 
 a plan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jtblackburn1
Rating: 3
Date: Mar 22, 2008 10:34 am PT
Review:  Game started off great. Patches made for unknown reasons make the game unenjoyable to those who 
 do not have 7 days per week to play.
  
  Game was never very stable. After a number of patches it now crashes constantly, regardless of 
 system you are using, but seems worse on newer systems.
  
  Changes in time frames means that you cannot accomplish major events in a weekend. So if you do 
 not have to work or go to school, you are fine. If you have to do either of those, you can only 
 be a peripheral player.
  
  If you got in early you could earn great ships. If you didn't, you are now cannon fodder to those 
 who did. They got the great ships and money. Now you have to spend money for the great ships. New 
 players are at a huge disadvantage and catching up with any players from the beginning is not a 
 possibility.
  
  Economy is really quite good. Missions are reasonably good. pvp works well. Ship battle sequences 
 are great. Customization to your character and ship are awesome. Game is easy to learn. Graphics 
 will blow your mind. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamer-1024
Rating: 1
Date: Mar 20, 2008 7:22 am PT
Review:  Sure it sounds exciting on paper. Traveling around the carribean, swashbuckling, cannon fights, 
 huge PvP battles etc makes it all sound like the best thing to happen since individually wrapped 
 cheese slices, unfortunately the game falls far short of the mark.
  
  The game is supposed to be an MMO but feels more like a singleplayer game at times. There are so 
 many limitations on where you can go on land, and hell the ocean all looks the same anyway so it's 
 just plain dull.
  
  While on land, you are blocked from even taking a swim. Imagine that... You are a pirate in the 
 beautiful waters of the Caribean but you can't even go for a quick swim in the ocean, heck you 
 can't even get your boots wet at the oceans shoreline. In fact any onshore battles are like this, 
 they guide you through a simple maze with oddball boring encounters of you or you and an AI partner 
 against a couple goons. It's been done and there was no reason to do it again. There is no real 
 exploration in this MMO at all. You are just plain limited everywhere that you go.
  
  But doesn't it sound exciting that you are going to be able to sail your great war ship through 
 the caribean from one port to another? Sure it does, unfortunately the landscape is so under detailed 
 that it looks like nothing more than tan slabs of clay, and you can spend literally hours sailing 
 on the ocean doing nothing but killing time, over and over and over and over again. The ports that 
 you finally get to berth in all have that cookie cutter look, so many of them are the same with 
 some minor window dressing to try to disguise them. Early in Beta they were warned about this and 
 all that they did was wait until near the end of beta to throw up some minor window dressing and 
 a few oddball non interactive AI characters to try to disguise the ports and unfortunately it failed 
 misreably.
  
  About the only thing the game has going for it, would be the crafting type of system, unfortunately 
 when the server populations are as low as they are (AND THEY ARE LOW, ALMOST DEAD REALLY) then 
 the crafting system means absolutely nothing as you won't find anybody to buy anything from you, 
 so you've now wasted your loot on creating some item that people don't even buy.
  
  There is a total lack of socialness to the game as well. There use to be something called Nation 
 Chat which allowed you to speak to your fellow players if they were in the same nation as you, 
 but that was removed with the thought that it would get too crowded but now with the lack of any 
 real server population their replacement (a type of zone chat) is often dead and barren of conversation 
 thus making the game feel even more like it's a singleplayer game and less like any MMO.
  
  Conceptually the game is a great idea, however the developers just fell so far short of the mark 
 that this game should be avoided at all costs. It's certainly not worth the $15.00 a month subscription 
 fee as there are far better MMO's already out there, and a couple far better ones coming out soon. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flaknugget
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 19, 2008 8:09 am PT
Review:  While Sid Meier's 'Pirates' will probably provide more instant gratification and diversity than 
 PotBS. When examining only the ship combat, PotBS towers above anything else. Outside of the Battlefield 
 series, this is the most fun I've ever had in any system of vehicle combat. Suck on that 'Twisted 
 Metal', 'Mario Kart', and 'Ace Combat'.
  
  But that's just me. I am a sucker for historical (not mythical) themes, and real-time combat that 
 requires real pacing, strategy, and variety.
  
  The detail put into the ship models is mind-blowing. When zoomed-in it's possible to see every 
 rope ladder, cannon, and figurehead statue. Also it's possible to see the crew firing the guns 
 and adjusting the sails.
  
  On the downside, the ground combat is about as bad as any button-mashing, nonsensical, 3rd person 
 combat system ever. The game's overall quality would be improved by removing 'swashbuckling' altogether.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tegororn
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 12, 2008 7:20 am PT
Review:  "This game isn't hugely popular and will never be. As unfortunate that is for me to say but this 
 isn't a game that will probably bring in a million players. It'll be one of those niche games that 
 mostly adults will play because it's too boring and slow for 13 year olds to enjoy because they 
 want constant action and this game actually takes time to level up and get a good ship. This game 
 actually takes effort." Geograd
  
  As for myself i love the game. It's not easy to play, one needs brains to learn and have fun from 
 this game. The Dev's are so into game and responding the problems really fast. It's been over a 
 month since it's released and lots of changes had been made for the good. Potbs has a deep PvP 
 aspect. Levelling up is not just enough for victory. You must work your brain out and create strategies. 
 This is no hack&slash and seeing the numbers dropping from ur health bar.
  
  I'll keep on playing this masterpiece.
  
  Cheers 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheHasselhoff
Rating: 3.5
Date: Mar 8, 2008 2:03 am PT
Review:  As the Deck says, I tried very hard to like this game. I was a fan of the pirate theme long before 
 this opportunity arose, and I leapt at the chance to finally take my tall-ship and pirate dreams 
 into the MMORPG world. Needless to say, I was incredibly disappointed by what I found. What did 
 I find, you ask? Glitches. Bugs. Lots of them. In fact, I am going to posit that Pirates of the 
 Burning Sea has more bugs crawling through it than a rotten corpse. 
  
  PotBS is a promising concept rife with poor execution: Graphics rendering errors even on a high-end 
 PC detract from the experience, non-crediting quests frustrate the casual player, and a ghost-world 
 of sparsely populated servers makes for a very lonely cruise through the Caribbean in your starter 
 ship. Finding members for the first group quest of the "Naval Officer" class was a quest in itself, 
 as it took almost fifty minutes to find three other people on the server willing to participate. 
 
  
  Don't let the sparseness fool you, though, there are plenty of barely detailed quests available, 
 made even more complicated by the fact that the "Quest Glow" hovers over areas even when a quest 
 cannot be turned in. The end result is that you spend a good chunk of time running between glowing 
 dots, trying to remember where your poorly organized quests came from. A cruel glitch early on 
 led to a fun romp through Jenny Bay as all of my completed quests still bore arrows to the quest-givers 
 past. 
  
  This is not to say that PotBS is a bad game, which it ultimately is. My main complaint is the potential 
 of this game and its ability to educate and entertain about such an interesting and fantastical 
 period in world history seems to have been squandered through some of the worst design and coding 
 I have seen in an MMORPG. For all those who view this game as a choice between the similar EVE 
 Online, don't risk it - go with EVE. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robrodgers2000
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 5, 2008 8:48 pm PT
Review:  I had waited for this one for a long time, so when it finally was released I jumped on it. At first 
 I was amazed, because the simple act of sailing the ships around is just so cool. The ship combat 
 was a rush as well. Some red flags, sure, like the avatar combat and the kinda lame economy interface, 
 but I figured it was new and this stuff could be worked out.
  
  After a month, though, it finally hit me, that although it looks and sounds great, ship combat 
 against NPC's was incredibly easy and repetitive. Although the lack of combat classes would seem 
 to be an advantage, it turns out there are only a couple ways to defeat a ship, and, this is the 
 bad part, they always work. Always, no matter the level difference between you and the npc. It 
 may take longer, but if you figure out the tricks you will never lose. What fun is that? Added 
 to the lame avatar combat and movement, the lack of variety, and the odd pvp setup, and the good 
 parts of the game are heavily outgunned by the bad. Maybe I'll come back in a year, but for now 
 at least I can't recommend this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RockySquirrel
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 5, 2008 12:52 pm PT
Review:  I have felt like a Beta Tester since launch day. 
  
  My system did not suffer from lag or major graphical issues, a 8800GT card and Win XP made sure 
 of that.
  
  BUT....
  
  One mission bug after another.... I was shocked that mission (1) playability, (2) immersion, and 
 (3) accuracy are rated so low on the FLS priority list.
  
  The basic game is full of good ideas, good music, good combat. So much potential. It started out 
 as a fresh breeze of change and fun until the bugs started hitting me.
  
  I am very disappointed that an MMO game is released in such a buggy form, a game that requires 
 a monthly fee as well as the fan support of its players to succeed.
  
  I feel like a customer burned by a developer's lack of attention to detail. It's possible that 
 the development team is too small for such a big project, or that they didn't put enough effort 
 into their mission implementation. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Simeon_Crane
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 5, 2008 11:18 am PT
Review:  POTBS is a more adult MMORPG that takes place in the Caribean during the days of pirates, privateers 
 and three countries fighting for control of natural resources and land rights. The game has a very 
 indepth economy where players create everything in the game. Everything. From nails to hemp rope 
 to ships of the line. Crafting in this game is not what it is in other MMO's. You interact with 
 the market like you would running a real business. Its all about supply and demand and being able 
 to create goods for as cheaply as possible and sell them for as much as possible. Players can run 
 their own **** shops creating different types of shot and guns, or even rum distilleries where 
 you harvest sugar cane and process into its final tasty form.
  The game grows out of the economy. Certain resources are only in certain ports and player run businesses 
 operate out of individual ports as well. If you need ore that you are not mining yourself, perhaps 
 it is clear across the map at the price you want. Just complete 50 units of ship fittings? Maybe 
 the best location to sell your goods is in Cuba. Transporting goods is what brings the seas to 
 life. Pirates, enemy privateers and stupid decisions are what needs to be avoided to get your goods 
 to port.
  
  There is a large PvP element to this game that is revolutionary. Now that a few patches have come 
 out this is running very well. Ports can be put into contension which allws them to decay into 
 PvP zones until the unrest is settled. During this time you can be sunk not only by NCP ships but 
 also by players. The PvP is easy enough to avoid all together, but it is there if you want to get 
 involved. The point is that ports can change control. Once they do tax rates change and suddenly 
 your profitable business is now more costly to run. For this reason large battles frequently take 
 play with the ultimate goal of running the other nations out of the carribean.
  
  Ship to ship battles are much more involved tan your typical MMO battle. In this game there is 
 wind to contend with and speed and tactics. It is not a point and franticly click scenario. Has 
 to be seen to be believed.
  
  I have not even touched on many other parts of the gaem like pirate hunting, loot, treasure maps, 
 missions, customization, lvling, strategies etc. Check it out for your self. This game has only 
 been out a month and it is getting better and better with each patch. Jump into the game now and 
 join the rackham server. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MithosElf
Rating: 1
Date: Mar 1, 2008 8:09 pm PT
Review:  I have beta tested the game since August and have not seen much progress, despite the dev's endless 
 promises that there would be a lot of end game material. Even at max level, the RvR system is easily 
 exploited and not much fun. It was a real disappointment. Customer service was the worst I have 
 ever encountered. It takes over 30 days to get any resolution to the simplest requests and then 
 the answer is generally, "we cannot help you." The game is not worth the $50 pricetag and definitely 
 not worth a $15 monthy subscription. Many of the servers are already dead or nearly dead. Further, 
 there is absolutely no balancing between the nations, so one side seems to dominate any given server, 
 which further eliminates any kind of endgame. I really felt that I wasted my time testing and playing 
 this game and would not encourage anyone to do the same. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Antpile
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 29, 2008 2:36 am PT
Review:  Many MMOs in recent years have been lacking a certain something I miss from the early days of the 
 genre. For a while, I couldn't put my finger on just what it was that was missing. Then one day, 
 it hit me; a death penalty.
  
  Most MMOs on the market these days cater to casual masses. While some of these games are amusing 
 for a short while, they never last. If you are the hardcore type who loves pvp, I am sure you know 
 what I'm talking about.
  
  First off, this game is not about the PvE. If you prefer good raids and smart, challenging NPCs 
 just go ahead and move on now. Just like EVE, the NPCs of this game are there more for something 
 to grind on to acquire money and experience than anything else. They also serve another purpose 
 of making it more difficult to spot actual players in pvp circles, allowing you to sneak up on 
 or maybe pass by enemy players unseen. The quests aren't too shabby and rarely become boring. Other 
 than the storyline RP mission, the game does a good job of avoiding the old cliche of making missions 
 take longer by making you run all over creation to do it. It's easy to enter a town, grab up all 
 the missions you can find, then head to the docks and just crank out one after another without 
 having to travel around at all. Most of the quests are just about the right duration with very 
 few dragging on. Definitely no killing 100 bears hoping for that last bear liver in this game. 
 Leveling 1-50 happens pretty quickly as well, and since it's not too hard to compete in pvp by 
 about 30, you can be pvp'in it up within a week without too much trouble.
  
  The ship battles in this game is just plain awesome. A good pvp battle can last more than 10 minutes 
 with both you and your opponent constantly maneuvering for better position, using skills at the 
 right moments, and choosing whether to sink from a distance or rushing up and try and board. None 
 of this crap with most recent MMOs that usually have pvp fights feel more like ganks because the 
 fight can begin and end in under 15 seconds easily. This is a thinking man's pvp game. Working 
 with a group is a lot of fun, especially if you are all on vent and have built your characters 
 with complementing skills. Although, don't worry about choosing the wrong skills when you first 
 start out as it isn't too hard to respec, especially the first time or so.
  
  The most compelling element of the pvp, as mentioned above, has nothing to do with the fighting 
 however. Instead, it is the fact that you are afraid to die. This game shares a lot with EVE online 
 in this respect. I am so stinkin tired of these MMOs catering to the casual player by giving out 
 these "slap on the wrist" death penalties. I miss the days when I was AFRAID to go explore that 
 cave on the bottom of the lake because I didn't want to die, lose experience, AND have to try and 
 get my corpse back out. While at the time I remember hating such death penalties, I have since 
 come to realize that being afraid to die is integral to my immersion in the game. If i'm not afraid 
 to die, then it just gets very ho-hum real fast. This extends into pvp where I want to be careful 
 about which fights I choose and I want my enemies to fear me. 
  
  All that being said, the death penalty in PotBS isn't lost experience; it's lost money. As in EVE, 
 money is the name of the game. Now the game isn't punishing to the point that you can't go out 
 and pvp, but you won't be just charging headfirst into battles you probably can't win either. Although, 
 unless you are filthy rich, you probably won't be taking the best of the best ships out for ordinary 
 pvp. This is a good thing however, because when you do see an Invincible first rate in battle you 
 will probably be giving everyone in your vent channel a "holy crap, that guy is in an Invincible!". 
 I don't think they'll be quite as rare as the titans of EVE were, but they'll be rare none-the-less.
 
  
  Now I know I've been comparing this game to EVE, and some of you are probably thinking "oh no, 
 another game that takes forever to really get rolling in." That is what sets this game apart from 
 EVE (other than this game's better ship battles) ; you could jump into this game long after it has 
 been out and catch up to the veterans level wise in a month or so. In EVE, unless you were willing 
 to wait a year or so to be able to compete it was not worth getting into after it had been out 
 a while.
  
  The boarding battles add an interesting twist, but are undoubtedly also the weakest part of the 
 game. It is still a good thing the melee combat exists as it does add strategic depth, and the 
 battles are usually mercifully short when it comes to boarding during ship to ship combat. The 
 swashbuckling quests however vary from a short and quick 1on1 battle to long, drawn out, incredibly 
 boring treks through the jungle killing basically the same npc with a different face over and over. 
 Hopefully avatar combat will be tweaked as the game goes along into a more in depth endeavor, but 
 until then these long swashbuckling mission are by far the game's weakest point. Luckily, you can 
 play right on through the game and never do a mission except for your class career mission every 
 5 levels. The quests are definitely optional, and while they generally pay better than just hunting 
 npcs on the open sea, the experience is definitely better the old fashion way of just running (or 
 sailing in this case) around killing stuff. Also, it's pretty easy to leave a quest and cancel 
 it out of your quest log should you enter it to realize it is one of those long and annoying swashbuckling 
 missions. This is a good thing as the ship combat quests are usually a lot of fun. This game sports 
 a healthy sense of humor with funny quest names and npc dialog, al la WoW. For example, one of 
 the early pirate missions is called "Beach Slap."
  
  All in all the game has the normal share of opening MMO bugs, but is pretty stable and definitely 
 playable. The bugs and strange things like the crappy chat boxes are pretty easy to look past until 
 they iron them out. Support for the game appears to be exceptional with the devs cranking out balance 
 changes and new content patches at a quick clip. None of this 6 months in between balance patch 
 stuff WoW has been doing. One balance patch has been released, followed by a smaller patch to fix 
 bugs and make some more balance tweaks, all within the first month. The next patch is making major 
 game overhauls to just about everything in the game, and that is due out in the not too distant 
 future. All in all, it looks like the devs are behind their game 100% and are not going to be the 
 invisible money mongers of other MMOs that give you balance changes every 6 months, which is usually 
 5 months later than they were needed. The support for the game gets an Antpile 2 thumbs up.
  
  Moral of the story is: if you are tired of MMOs that hold your hand and your little sister 
 could probably do just fine in, then this might just be your game. The pvp is intense and strategic, 
 the PvE is secondary (as it should be) , and most importantly... it sucks to die! YES! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kensan_Oni
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 29, 2008 12:04 am PT
Review:  I've been playing the game for a while now, and if you're looking for a multi-player Sid Mier's 
 Pirates, then you are probably looking in the right place. It is reputed to be a Realm vs Realm 
 style PVP game, with a descent storyline and quick leveling. It is suppose to have a strong player 
 driven economy, and really, it tries very hard to do the things it is setting out to do.
  
  The problem is that the developers, from lousy documentation to a lack of really communicating 
 to the community what they want to see happening, have failed to take account of things that are 
 now happening. The PVP isn't working right, as groups are afraid to fight each other, and the groups 
 actively discourage solo players from entering PVP zones. The Economy is busted, as the needed 
 goods are in ready supply, and because the money in the game isn't given out often enough, the 
 major drain, ships, are not being bought enough, which is stagnating the economy.
  
  This game was released too soon, and it has the potential to be a great game. My recommendation 
 as of 2.29.08 is to wait three months before jumping into this game, to give the developers time 
 to work out things they should have done in Beta.
  
  However, if you don't want to participate in PVP or the economy, it's got almost everything you 
 ever wanted out of a Mier's game. So it's worth a month or two at least. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: a5minmajor
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 28, 2008 6:52 pm PT
Review:  I find it -extremely- hard to believe that SOE and/or FLS has not compensated reviewers of this 
 game in one form or another.
  
  This line tipped it right off the bat, "some of the finest moments the genre has to offer".
  
 
  After playing this absolute failure for a month, and canceling the sub before throwing good money 
 after bad, I fundamentally disagree with ANYONE who says this is anything more than a lesson in 
 how NOT to release a game. (That should never truthfully be referred to as an 'MMO or MMORPG' as 
 the -entire- game is instanced, which kills any illusion that you are in a living, persistent world.)
 
  
  GLARING technical problems, PvP and port contention imbalance and exploits, graphical anomalies, 
 laughable AI in both ship and ground battles (I won't even take the easy shot at AV-COM in general) 
 worthless and imbalanced ship combat skills, worthless loot, a worthless career choice as a pirate 
 at level 50, Ships too expensive to replace to be used in PvP, cookie-cutter repetitive 'missions' 
 ...... You could type for an hour and still not get to all the problems with this game.
  
  Most of all, is this nonsense about the great, in-depth economy; what a load of tripe. You can 
 not have a player-based economy, when your player base is too small to support it. Calling something 
 in-depth can sometimes be a cover for it being simply over-wrought and broken. Never was this more 
 true than for the economy of this game. Go ahead, take your time and build several production lines.. if 
 you ever manage to get a finished commodity, there will probably no longer be a demand at the auction 
 house... which is completely blind-bid, by the way. What the hell is wrong with simply listing the 
 sale price of an item? And don't expect you can unload unsold items to vendors, because often, 
 you can not, and for some strange reason there are several items you can't sell OR trade.
  
  We can go on like this for hours, but frankly, we've all probably got better things to do. 
 Suffice it to say that if a review of this game is anything more than poor, in my opinion it may 
 be possible they have been generously compensated for kind words. 
  
  There is a good chance that -some day- this may be quite and enjoyable on-line gaming experience, 
 but as of right now, GameSpot couldn't have been more incorrect in scoring and reviewing this game. 
 I won't take the time to refute every statement made in the GS review, but as far as I'm concerned 
 the only thing they -correctly- stated was the caption under a picture of a boarding action that 
 said 'Boarding, not so much'.
  
  I've never felt compelled to write, much less refute a review of a game before, but I can't read 
 one more misleading review without putting pen to paper. (or in this case, monkey-paw to keyboard)
 
  
  Please, for the love of decent gaming standards, give this one a pass; save the $50 lay-down and 
 $15 a month. (If you are absolutely compelled to buy this game, at least wait 6 months, and let 
 some other poor, dumb schmoes fund FLS's attempt at patches and upgrades necessary to make PoTBS 
 playable.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Davidwain
Rating: 2
Date: Feb 28, 2008 4:30 pm PT
Review:  This game certainly has some potential and the ships are certainly well designed. 
  
  Land combat on the other hand appears often random, and whilst it works well on some of the missions 
 the boarding usually comes down to weight of numbers, and hit points of crew members.
  
  However the main bugbear is pvp. What is said about members of all levels becoming involved is 
 sadly not the reality in many servers. In reality fighting someone higher level in a bigger ship 
 will usually have one result. This is amplified as the pvp players tend to be overrun by gank squads 
 from various societies. This is not assisted by a system that positively encourages the hunting 
 of low level players by higher level ones. Some of the ports that can be put in contention stop 
 players from completing essential lvl 8 quests.
  
  The effect this can have on the game is that it may be literally impossible to play for days on 
 end, obviously unacceptable in a subscription game.
  
  It's also generally accepted that certain of the classes suffer from quite considerable unbalance. 
 To compound this various nations on each server have a growing dominance. Because of the way the 
 economy works at present this is likely to be a continuing issue, and I suspect they will end up 
 with a dominant nation on each server that routinely win.
  
  The best advice is wait a few months, then they'll end up giving it out as a free trial. I suspect 
 that there is a good game buried underneath it all but it is going to take a considerable amount 
 of fine tuning. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: moriwenne
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 30, 2008 8:38 pm PT
Review:  Gamespot did a good and fair review in my view so the 8.0 score is not half bad but it could go 
 a bit higher and in about 3-6months this game will be worth at least a 9! Let me review:
  I am a POTBS player. Played the Open beta, continued with preorder and have been playing for a 
 month after launch. By now I know this game very very well.
  First and foremost, it's a different genre, a breath of fresh air from all of those fantasy avatar 
 games. It is complex but it is not hard to play although they did do a poor job of explaining certain 
 parts of the game. The graphics are fine, the ship part of the game being 'finer' than the avatar 
 part. The audio is also great, the music fitting the genre, the cannon fire, the random port sounds 
 that make your day :)
  When it comes to gameplay the game has two parts, ships and avatars. The ship side is fantastic 
 and well polished and everything GSpot said is true. The avatar side is lackluster so again Gspot 
 is right on the money.
  Where Gspot went wrong was when they failed to mention the economy! This is a huge part of the 
 game and it is fantastic! Pretty much everything in the world of potbs is made by players and there's 
 none of that mining tons of stuff nonsense. Go to their website and read about it for it is truly 
 useful.
  In conclusion I would like to say that as any MMORPG these days, POTBS started off broken. There 
 are bugs and kinks that get fixed, some things are changed, others are added and some balance is 
 perfected. They have done a great job with patches so far and I was impressed just the other day 
 as I submitted a ticket for support because I had a crash and 5minutes later a GameMaster was talking 
 to me and helping me out. If this game was reviewed 3-6 months from now, it would probably bump 
 it's score to a 9 ez. I hope people keep giving it a chance and join for in no time it will truly 
 be an historic MMO. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RayStand
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 26, 2008 11:49 am PT
Review:  A lot of bad press came for this game on its launch. A bit unfair in my eyes. I've been playing 
 for a while. It is a fun, social game that you as an individual can have a big effect on. There 
 are no role playing games on the market that work in the same way this game does. With it's economy 
 and ability to capture ports POTBS becomes a very interesting and tactical game. There were some 
 bug problems initially aswell as server problems. But now on 1.2 most of these are fixed.
  
  I like the way that different careers have to rely on the other to survive and make money. 
 Merchants need Naval Officers to keep their ports so that they can make the most of their produce 
 and Naval Officers need Merchants to keep the economy thriving. The battle scenes are beautiful 
 and need a lot of tactical thinking to suceed in them, especially in PVP.
  
  There is also a lot of grouping up and being part of a society that makes this game incredible 
 social and forces you to be, as a lot of the time you need to work together in battle or transporting 
 goods.
  
  Like I said before, the intial bad press was unfair. PotBS is now begining to be an estabished 
 game with a thriving network of players. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: willowmanson
Rating: 1
Date: Feb 26, 2008 4:40 am PT
Review:  Simply put, this game is no fun at all. It looked really cool and sounded like it would be the 
 next great MMO game before release but in the end it was simply a waste of $50 hard earned dollars.
 
  
  First, the game has lots of bugs in it. It has many graphic problems. It takes forever to load. 
 To many problems to mention.
  
  Second, the PvE just sucks. The combat system is awful and is no fun what so ever. I get defeated 
 at least 5 times every time before I can complete a mission. 
  
  Third, naval combat is actually pretty nice, but the learning curve is very difficult to master 
 making it frustrating. It also takes way to long to complete a battle. 
  
  Overall, I was not impressed with this game. The concept is good but the actually game is not. 
 Even the in game map is hard to use to navigate thru a town. Don't waste your money or time with 
 this. Burning Sea should have all their servers burned to the ground and the ashes swept in the 
 graveyard of failed MMO's. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: samer312
Rating: 2
Date: Sep 10, 2008 9:14 pm PT
Review:  Pirates of the Burning Sea is a cool an unique idea in concept but the actual game is terrible. 
 The main reason why I bought this game was that I could get into the economy. The best way to describe 
 it is complicated and broke. The idea of a player run economy worked in eve because the developers 
 "jump started" it so that people could get into it. Were in this game it just sucks
  
  The one thing I do like about this game is the navel battles because they look really cool and 
 require some strategy. The sword fighting part of the game is probably the worst part of it. The 
 best way to describe it is a 2 year of graphics with a 13 year old gaming engine.
  
  Another really bad part of this game is that the world is small and not detailed at all. Every 
 time you go to a new city, it looks like the last one you were in but with a different flag.
  
  In all Pirates of the Burning Sea is not a fun game to play even if it were free. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Star_Wars117
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 24, 2008 1:36 pm PT
Review:  This game simply takes the fun out of being a pirate or a person during those times. Please read 
 til the end. I'm not trying to completely bash this game. It has its ups and downs but it isn't 
 for everyone.
  
  The Good:
  
  -Ship combat is addictive and fun. 
  
  -Some ports have great graphics and were made with great detail.
  
  The Bad:
  
  -Everything 
 is instanced. From ports, to ship combat, to boarding combat. Nothing is fun about being in an 
 intense ship battle and then when boarding an enemy being teleported into a ship instance. When 
 you board an enemy ship, you are teleported into an instance of a ship where you and your 6 guys 
 stand on the stern of the ship and your opposing captain and his 6 guys on the bow. Then you charge 
 and stand in a big mob just swinging your sword once every few seconds. Its especially fun when 
 all of the enemies simply decide to attack you and run past all of your other crew. The ports are 
 clickable instances that sit at the edge of the water and don't even reach the non-sand part of 
 the land. 
  
  -Many of the ports in the game are copy/pasted! Literally the exact same port with a different 
 name. And the ones that don't, just have a different layout of the exact same NPCs.
  
  -There is simply barely any exploration. You cannot explore any of the land on the map and the 
 open sea gets boring. Every island looks the same, every beach.
  
  -Graphics are lackluster. 
  
  -In the higher population servers (the others are empty and boring) 
 it seems every port is always up for contention. Pretty much every where becomes PvP. 
  
  -Quests are all the same, over and over again. Multiple land quests use the same instance.
  
 
  -You can't jump. CMON! Each area, port, instance, etc. has invisible walls. You can't step off 
 a porch on a building in a port if its higher than half a foot tall. You get to the water in a 
 port and cannot step in or swim. You walk too far one way and hit an invisible wall.
  
  -Character customization leaves everyone looking the same. Its not as complex as you think.
  
 
  -The economy has a very steep learning curve. Some people get it, many people don't.
  
  -There really is nothing to this game. You don't work your way up working as a crew member on a 
 different ship, you don't actually swing onto the other ship when boarding, using a pistol enemies 
 can dodge your bullets when you are standing a foot away from them, the interface takes up a lot 
 of space and does not help you at all (group quests don't say who in the group has it, just a number, 
 no quest arrows, etc.) .
  
  -The game proves to be laggy for many players (including myself) , especially in big ports. 
  
 
  I could go on and on I'm sorry to say because I had such high expectations for such a rigorously 
 advertised game. Any questions about it, PM me. The only reason why I have hope is because the 
 DEV team seems hard working and it seems like they care. Maybe in a couple years they will have 
 changed a lot making it much better. Until then, R. I. P. 50 bux. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dreighton1
Rating: 2
Date: Feb 19, 2008 10:47 am PT
Review:  This game has lots of uniqueness that make you want to like it. It's naval combat and ships set 
 in a historical setting. The ships are not alike, and take different strategy to use each to it's 
 fullest potential.
  
  But this game simply wasn't finished before it was put out. There are tons of technical issues. 
 It took me a week just to get this game to play. All of the issues by the way are your fault the 
 player.... not the developers. Here's a sampling of known issues: Routers (almost all routers) , 
 Vista, Nvidia 8xxx cards, your memory, Firewall, Spyware, Virus protection, your sound card, your 
 internet provider... and on and on. 
  
  After that week I did get the game running.... but was I disappointed. There still is lag, stutter, 
 flashing, crashes on a regular basis, missing inventory.
  
  Ok.. so let's over look the technical part and get into the game play. There are only like 4 town 
 models, and they are very small. The world has little to explore. Water is water after all. Missions 
 are similar and after awhile, boring and repetitive. (though the story logs can be funny) . Speaking 
 of missions.. they are color coded to let you know something... though I'm not sure what, as those 
 marked green (below your level) may be impossible, and those red/brown (above your level) can be 
 very easy. And many missions are buggy... like "kill all 8 pirate ships"... but only 7 are in the 
 mission. So... missions, not finished
  
  Avatar combat is .... clunky, though it is subtle. There are swashbuckling missions that help give 
 some variation to the ship missions. I actually see the upside in this... it just needs work. Again, 
 it wasn't finished.
  
  PvP is not finished. There is no reason to do it. (gain) , lots of risk if you lose, and if you 
 aren't 5 v 1... well, I've never seen it not be. So if you think Ganking (gang killing) is fun then 
 this might be for you. (not so much if you are the ganked usually) But if you want some honor, 
 and match your skills and luck against another human 1 on 1 or even 2 on 2... well you are out of 
 luck, cause it never happens. In fact I find this to be more of a pain. Constantly having to go 
 around a pvp area, or trying to slip in to run a mission that's critical (like my level 20 NO mission)
 
  
  Ship movement and combat seem realistic, even if the AI is a little one dimensional. Bad part of 
 this is... there is a steep learning curve. You have to learn how to sail! This is good when you 
 get it down... but takes awhile.
  
  Economy so far is broke... more stuff to sell, then buyers or demand. You lose money as you try 
 to make money... um huh?
  
  Bottom line... I was ripped off for my $50. AND they want $15 a month... nope not worth it. I'm already 
 back to playing Total War Medieval II, and there's a new space strategy game that looks really 
 good too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Viashivon
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 18, 2008 5:23 am PT
Review:  When I first found out about this game I was stoked and had to have it. I've been playing another 
 MMORPG and had a difficult time shutting it down to play this. Now that I have it I'm glad I changed.
 
  
  At first I had difficulty steering the ship because my router wasn't set up right. After that fix 
 (have settings set for TCP only no UDP) everything went smooth. I like the feel of the game, the 
 scenery and open storyline. If it weren't for the fact that I had to go to the help desk to find 
 out what was causing my problems I would've given it a 10. If it weren't for their help desk helping 
 with my issue I would've given them a 5. The help desk is great and quick.
  
  I highly recommend getting a high octane graphics card, if you want full enjoyment that is. Otherwise 
 tone down your graphics to relieve the choppiness. This game rocks when you get your system above 
 the recommended requirements. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Paraclete
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 17, 2008 7:17 pm PT
Review:  This game is a refreshingly different kind of game! There's the surface game of shipfighting and 
 swordfighting which is fun... then theres the very entertaining crafting game that is very well 
 thought out and finally theres the PVP/patriotism game where what you do solo and with others affects 
 the game itself! 
  
  The customization of your vessels really matters. The skill tree choices you make significantly 
 impacts gameplay. (BIG hint, for your character make sure you take the pistols skill earlier on!) 
 With your ship do what you can to customize it with fast loading cannon and with what you can to 
 aid it's manuvering ability and you'll soon be picking and winning your sea battles.
  
  Be warned, it takes about a week to really get into the game well enough to see it's real merits. 
 But with a little investment I am confident you'll find this to actually be a contender for being 
 a wow killer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pmcubed
Rating: 4.5
Date: Feb 17, 2008 1:59 am PT
Review:  The good -
  
  FLS seems to want to create a good game. Unfortunately reality often clashes with creative imagination, 
 which leads to the creation of games such as Pirates of the Burning Sea.
  
  I never had a problem with the graphics on open sea, they looked fine for me.
  
  The bad -
 
  
  FLS knew the game wasn't going to appeal to enough people and the development time must have drained 
 their budget to the point where they were forced to use SOE to publish the game. In doing so, people 
 who purchase the station pass for 30$ a month can play (or not play) PotBS and FLS will still be 
 getting paid regardless. This allows them a little financial breathing room to perhaps clean up 
 a game that was doomed from beta.
  
  Av-combat is terrible. A clear after-thought of the game. Even at high-levels ship-boarding is 
 spamming a few keys. People will say other-wise, but you can win by spamming a few keys. I have 
 tested tons of builds on my level 40 with all types of fighting-styles, and if you make a good 
 enough build, you can win by pressing keys 1 and 2 only.
  
  The towns are the same. Very small and built with no imagination. Save for the capitol city, which 
 is fairly large, but for those who like to explore and see cool sights, you will not find much 
 here.
  
  PvP is designed like any other RvR game. In this way there isn't much fault, but the PvP itself 
 isn't exciting. I never felt I had an intense battle. Nothing that kept me from doing anymore than 
 I could avoid.
  
  Questing and leveling in general is rigorously repetitive. You will often end up doing different 
 quests with the exact same layout and objectives. If you get tired of this you can hunt PVE in 
 open sea. Upon where you can sink ships 20-30 levels higher than you because they AI is very poorly 
 implemented.
  
  I wont continue with other flaws, but I want to end with a unbiased statement:
  
  This is not 
 for everyone, some people find it entertaining. But reading a review where people give it a 10 
 or 9.5 is not fair. There are serious faults in this game. They very much outweigh its 'fun' points. 
 Those who are trying to find the next replacement to their WoW addiction may find a few soothing 
 months in the game, but it is by no means perfect. If you really must try this game by all means 
 do so, but do not expect a solid gaming experience from this one. If you are really trying to find 
 a home for that 50$ you have saved up over the last few paychecks, I would keep it a little longer 
 for another game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jp4202006
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 15, 2008 9:47 am PT
Review:  Unlike an orc or an elf, a pirate is actually a part of history. And, now you get to be one or 
 you can be a Naval Officer from Europe. This game has it all I mean it's got Super-depth, Super-graphics (Im 
 using a 2 year old computer and 256-mb video card and it's smooth as silk) , fairly easy to play 
 which means fairly easy to master (got to like that don't you) . Plus this game is ADDICTIVE! You 
 want to be the best pirate, whether it's in the 2 main game aspects. Ship combat and swashbuckling. 
 IMO they both are fun as hell, and then you can pvp, which is intense as hell. It's all in fun 
 though, if you find a player enemy and you can fight him why wouldn't you? I say anyone who likes 
 to be surprised and has a imagination should play this game right now. I mean right right now!! 
 ARRRRRRRRRRRR!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pipeboy65
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 15, 2008 7:42 am PT
Review:  PotBS has a ton of potential, for first 2 weeks i played it nearly non-stop, sea battles were fun, 
 trying out the next new ship was fun, The storylines for the missions were really quite good, even 
 if the avatar combat is rather lame. Now that i'm nearly at level cap, all the fun is pretty much 
 over.
  The "mobs" or ships you kills outside missions are incredibly easy to kill
  u can kill level 50 ships easily at level 25.. they never turn, try to run, change ammo, or try to 
 board you. You shoot them, they shoot back you win.. always
  unless you disconnect or go afk. no chance of adds, or getting ganked because the battles are instanced. 
 The pvp is a mixed bag, the port contention concept is pretty good idea, and works pretty good, the 
 bad part of it is that the nations are hugely imbalanced and the climatic port battle
  gives no rewrds to the players risking ships to participate, so weak nations have started to not 
 show up. There is also no way to set a time for these big battles to take place. Imagine if u will 
 if WoW servers sent out a message
  to players to show up at black temple in 30 minutes to raid at 9 am on a tuesday morning. this 
 is what PotBS does to you, and then add in the fact there is potential for substantial loss and 
 zero reward to participate.
  In open seas pvp you must be in a pvp zone or be flagged to participate,
  if i see a person of 
 my faction getting attacked by the enemy i cannot help him unless i am grouped with him.. this is 
 totally stupid as well. I'd hang around to see fixes but they charging a Cadilac price for a Kia
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jesserott
Rating: 2.5
Date: Feb 14, 2008 8:18 am PT
Review:  Do Not Waste Your Donuts.... An Insult !!!! I am actually ashamed to admit I bought this flotch.... It 
 has no redeeming value, it is so boring you would be wise to chose root canal therapy over being 
 saddled with the task of enduring this nonsense. Unless, of course, you are a neo-sadist who enjoys 
 wandering aimlessly through repetitive towns with the same basic characters saying the same thing 
 ad-infinitum. ad-nausium. ad-hoc crapola. Want a silly ship you can't explore that looks the same 
 as all the others and have a joyride meandering around a senseless map studded with brown mounds 
 that are supposed to be Carribean Islands devoid of purpose - then look no further !! Eureka - 
 we have found the Black Hole of Dumb.... The Holy Grail of Pee In My Pocket and Tell Me It's Raining. 
 Another example of slick marketing of material that should have been flushed during the first lavatory 
 break. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rhb4789
Rating: 2.5
Date: Feb 11, 2008 12:55 pm PT
Review:  The thing that has made me quit playing Potbs after 2 weeks is lag. i got a pretty fast computer 
 and high bandwith, but it still lags alot. Its almost impossible to have any big PvP attacks, because 
 it lags to much.
  
  The loading screens are a killer too. The game has to load every time you go to battle, out of 
 battle, enter/exit a port, enter/exit a building. If you want to solo PvP this game aint for you, 
 because group PvP is the only kind, where you have a decent chance not to sink and lose your ship.
 
  
  You also have to have alot of time when playing this game, because that the map is big and it can 
 take you 20mins getting to where you need to go if you are unlucky, on your way to your destination 
 pirates may attack you, forcing you to go to battle and waste time there too. You cant log out 
 when you are in the open sea.
  
  Only thing i enjoyed were the ship combat and that there are 3 nations fighting against eachother 
 and that the clans (societies) in a nation have to work together and plan what to do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spartan-1657
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 9, 2008 12:31 am PT
Review:  This game had some great ideas.... some wonderful ideas. It seemed so very promising. So very fresh 
 - to feel as if you were in these times. The times and life of a pirate, or other nations.
  
  Where does this game fail? Well.... everywhere. Here is why:
  
  Ship combat: Same thing, 
 over... and over.... and over.... Sure, you get skills every 2 levels for your ship, but they contribute 
 such a small amount to the game (pretty much you can not even get any ship skills and be fine from 
 1-50) that it just doesn't seem to matter what skills you take. It is fun at first. But just click 
 to shoot... wait 10-15 seconds.... click again to shoot.... etc, etc, etc. It is so repetitive 
 it is insane.
  
  Character combat: Someone in another review said it nicely when saying "I've seen better combat 
 in a 15 year old Nintendo game" and that about sums it up. The avatar combat is so horrible you 
 will want to toss every single quest related to land combat... it will make you NEVER want to board 
 unless you have to in order to survive. This is how a boarding fight goes (PVE and PVP) . Run close 
 to enemy captain. Tell your crew to focus fire on that person. Win. It's that simple, but what 
 is even more painful is when it is just you, on land, fighting one mob. Sure, takes no longer than 
 10 seconds, but it is so horribly boring you might fall asleep before then.
  
  Towns: Absolutely DISGUSTING. I feel insulted walking in these towns. Most of them are the exact 
 same but with different NPC names. They aren't even nice to look at. The taverns are in place.... 
 but what can ya do there? NOTHING. You can't sit in a chair, can't have a drink, can't start a 
 fight, can't do ANYTHING. 
  
  The whole point of an MMO is to make you feel more in the world, but there is absolutely nothing 
 in this game that will make you feel like that, especially when anything that can even be considered 
 to not be garbage is the ship combat. Yeah, you can see your guy standing on the ship.. big fun... 
 just isn't the same. I am the CHARACTER, NOT a BOAT.
  
  The off-boat scenarios are so painfully horrible you will do whatever you can to never get off 
 your ship. But even still... when the ship is the prime focus, you can't even have people on your 
 ship. What the hell kinda crap is that? Even to just chill and explore your own ship. Not in the 
 game. What kind of crap is this? The whole game revolves around your ship, but can't have anyone 
 come on it or even explore. That's almost as bad as them not even letting you see the warehouse 
 you have in the game. I got an idea... why not give the players houses. But you can only see one 
 side of it from the outside, and cannot furnish it or anything. Just so you can say you have one.
 
  
  This game fails on so many levels I get angry just talking about it.
  
  To even think that an MMO in today's world is such garbage astounds me, it is as if they figured 
 the idea of pirates will make the game good. It sucks, way too much to even be saved at this point 
 in time.
  
  So little people play this game, and barely no more will come, especially if trying the game out 
 while playing another MMO.
  
  15 bucks a month is ridiculous. It is so broken that if I still paid for it, I'd feel like I was 
 paying monthly to participate in a beta to try and tell them how to make a game have some fun in 
 it.
  
  Stay away from this game. Forever. It will never ever compare to any other MMO out there that is 
 still around.
  
  Let's forget this game came into existence and let FLS and Sony give refunds and apology emails 
 for this crap. To seriously think anyone enjoys this game.... I don't get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hipster
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 8, 2008 10:02 pm PT
Review:  I have not played any MMO's, but this one looked very fun. So I got it and started playing pre-board 
 before I forked over the money play on the start of the game. I was a little discouraged at first 
 because there is so much to learn, but I joined a guild right off the bat and they helped me out 
 getting in the right direction! If you try and play without a guild if will be tough. When you 
 start leveling and earning money, it's very rewarding, and through all the side missions you can 
 make your money to buy the ships you want! For my first MMO I am glad I bought it! This isn't a 
 game you can just get and play, it requires some work/skill and thinking!
  There are many Guilds on the POTBS web site to choose from, you can be a Pirate/Brit/Spanish/French 
 so you have alot of different ways to play, you can be a Naval Officer, Freetrader, privateer or 
 pirate. you just need to pick your career. You can have more than one, so you can try them all 
 but you have to spend a little time with each to get a ideal of how they work! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kugellehr
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 7, 2008 8:12 pm PT
Review:  The game itself is very pretty and i've had few errors in the world. The game itself has some bugs 
 involving quests, and the quests.... well... While quests in general are boring, these are down 
 right mind numbing. I'm level 32 now and ive done the same quests 500 times. The rewards are alot 
 of money, rarely any usable items, and very little xp. Open sea grinding is the way to go.
  
  PVP is fantastic when you actually get into a fair fight. The type of ship you have and the 
 way you control it can be the complete deciding factor. I took on 2 ships against my one, but since 
 i was a bigger ship i was able to hit them powerfully enough at range that they couldn't get in 
 and destroy my sails.
  
  Overall, the game is great. It has ALOT of work to be done on it, dont get me wrong, but its a 
 brand new MMO, and within the next couple months, server populations will grow and the game will 
 get better and better.
  
  I am worried about the end content and what i will do. I hope the crafting system and the port 
 contention (yes actually taking over the world from the other nations) will keep me busy. We'll 
 see. But please go buy the game and see for yourself. Join the French side too, because our population 
 is dwarfed by masses of British and Pirate players. See you on the ocean!
  
  -Dan 
::::::

::::::
UserName: whizler
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 7, 2008 12:21 pm PT
Review:  I really wanted to enjoy Pirates of the Burning Sea. I mean, c'mon... PIRATES! SEA BATTLES! THE 
 CARIBBEAN! But what I've found is mostly sizzle and little steak.
  
  The best part of PotBS is the ships, which you can command in a wide range of battles and adventures. 
 Firing your full complement of cannons and reducing your target to a pile of driftwood is quite 
 a thrill, a real change from the hack-and-slash of typical MMOs. Unfortunately, the novelty of 
 it all eventually wears off, primarily because you quickly discover a template for victory.
  
  PotBS sports hundreds of missions, some more inspired than others, but little variation in 
 your template is required to beat them, whether they be sea-based missions, or the land-based ones 
 which require your avatar to do a little swashbuckling. In fact, this aspect of combat is pretty 
 dreadful and comes no where close to the hype.
  
  At first glance, the economic side of PotBS looks compelling, but you soon discover that the hassle 
 of actually participating in it outweighs the benefits. The reward to effort ratio is very small, 
 with a very significant chance of reaping large losses if you're not careful (or just unlucky) .
 
  
  The PvP aspect of the game in theory offers a sort of end-game, but when the time comes for ownership 
 of a port to be decided in a finale battle royale, only 24 lucky players from each side may participate.
 
  
  All in all, PotBS offers a few unique experiences which sooner or later become old-hat. Try it 
 for a month if you really need to experience something new, but this MMO doesn't offer much value 
 for its monthly fee. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fghiba
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 6, 2008 5:06 pm PT
Review:  First of all: this is not a game for everyone. This is not meant to be an elitist statement , just 
 an important note: in a gaming world where all is dumbed down to cater the attention of the mass, 
 PotBS has chosen the hard path to glory. It's a PVP game, focused on the Nation (realm) and not 
 on the player: there are no shiny sword, no uber-ship that you can have only farming some kind 
 of raid; everything is player-produced, so everything can be loss without too much crying and desperation 
 (UO anyone?) . And you'll loose thing in PotBS, from your cargo, to the outfit and the entire ship 
 when you are sunk.
  There are missions (some really good, other just as good as a common mmorpg one) , and there's plenty 
 of pve, but the whole game moves around wold domination and port conquest, 6vs6 fights to unlock 
 the beautiful and surprisingly tactical 24vs24 port battle. And economy, because without a good 
 one your faction is gonna loose in the end if you have to pay a ship the double than your enemy.
 
  There are some flaws, some mechanics need a bit of polishing, and the avatar combat is just "normal" 
 as every other mmorpg, but the ship combat is probably the best ever seen so far in the genre, 
 just because you have to think and not smash buttons in a certain order.
  So if you loved UO, if you like EVE but found it a bit cold and uninspiring, let's try PotBS: I'm 
 sure that you'll not regret. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: solidkjames
Rating: 5.5
Date: Feb 18, 2008 12:23 pm PT
Review:  Well I won't bore you with constant flames about POTBS. The thing that stands out most to me is 
 there seems to be zero end game content. You can reach lvl 50 without ever doing a single quest 
 yet when you hit 50 the question is what do I do now. PvP is not something people do much of yet 
 the game is about 90% pvp based. There is no benefit currently to doing pvp and the changes coming 
 to promote pvp will not do so. This is the main reason I am cancelling my account. I think over 
 time the game will pick up and things will improve but right now there is no justification of paying 
 $15 bucks a month for the content. There are too many alternatives to this game and ones that by 
 far will keep you entertained.
  
  Gameplay:
  The combat is unique and fun when you are fighting with ships but hand to hand is something I could 
 compare to a nintendo game from 15 years ago. As for the economy it is totally player driven and 
 only time will tell if this will be a good thing. The quest tracking and overall quest system needs 
 alot of work. The game could also use a better waypoint system, it is about near impossible to 
 set a waypoint and keep it locked on. 
  
  You also have to pick 1 of 4 nations. You can then create alts on the server but they all must 
 be from the same nation. The current system doesn't recommend servers therefore there are 3 servers 
 with adequate populations and the rest are ghost towns. There are too many servers and not enough 
 players. The should combine the servers to create more player interaction. There also should be 
 a reason to play a nation, ie better resources, ships, etc. As it is now the French are so underplayed 
 on most servers you wont see 20 people online at a given time on most servers. This is a very game 
 breaking problem and needs to be addressed quickly.
  
  Story:
  The story line is set in the 1700's of the Carribean. It was a time where sheer brutality was very 
 common and the game would benefit more from showing this. I personally have lived on the coast 
 of North Carolina and the lore of Pirates and their impact on the state is still seen today. And 
 since Blackbeard was a North Carolina Pirate and the stereotype of all pirates are based on his 
 image I think this game hits the mark.
  
  Graphics:
  The open sea and ship details are amazing as well as the avatar customization. The hand to hand 
 fighting is very generic. 
  
  Final thoughts:
  
  The game shows potential and is a great break from traditional MMORPG's but for now the game has 
 far too much wrong with it to justify the high monthly fee. Lower the cost to 9.99 or less a month 
 and subscriptions would jump. There is little justification to keep the account with the current 
 content and long term I don't see this game as a major contender in the ever growing MMO world. 
 Originality can get people to try a game but its the content that keeps them coming back. My advice 
 is to wait a few months to see if they can fix the issues that currently plague the game and to 
 see if end game picks up.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: turn1232003
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 5, 2008 4:46 pm PT
Review:  No intro needed here we will just get in down to it.;
  
  The economy in this game stands out for me in a big way. The complexity of the items that you produce 
 in addition to the limit on the buildings you can build force you use it if you want to get anything 
 done in a timely manner. In addition you need to use your head a little to get it to work for you. 
 I am actually using the stuff I learned in operations management and economics from college. In 
 a nutshell here is how it works; the "shop" only has the most basic of repair items and such. If 
 you want anything better you need to either 1. make it yourself and in turn sell the surplus, or 
 2. buy it on the open market. I have read and heard some complaints about this system so I will 
 be brief without an in depth lesson on economics. This should look familiar because this is a basic 
 market system, what we have. The way this is set up is how the real world works supply and demand. 
 So do a little research and look at the auction house that the region services and see what you 
 might be able to make money off of. Don't make lumber if you see somebody has 6500 on the market 
 already, it will not sell and you just wasted time and money on producing your goods. You will 
 then get mad because you can't sell anything, give the game a "2" and say how it sucks due to the 
 fact that you can't use simple reasoning skills. The studio did not make an inferior product in 
 this instance. You as the consumer are not educated on how the real world works.
  
  While on the subject of the real world, people complaining about the lack of emotes and other interactions 
 of you avatar. C'mon people go outside and socialize a little. I understand slightly about the 
 no jumping thing, that is a tad annoying to me as well. However yet again on more than one of the 
 previous reviews I have seen complaining about how they can't sit down in the pub???? Or actually 
 drink a beer or rum? The lack of dance emotes?? Honestly now are you people looking for a game/pastime 
 to unwind with, or are you looking for a substitute for actual contact and activity with other 
 humans. To this all I can really say without being too offensive, but really like the first paragraph 
 don't say something sucks and give a bad review based only on trivial things like that. 
  
  Now I have noticed quite a few glitches with the land combat. There is little or no collision detection 
 between the players on screen. I have more than once shot a pistol and have it hit after the person 
 had moved behind me. I honestly feel that these are the elements that make the boarding/land battles 
 feel inconsequential compared to the sea. It basically boils down to who can swarm who faster with 
 little or no tactical planning needed. Since they are working as we speak on updates I would not 
 be surprised to see some kind of modification to this. But yes I sadly have to agree with every 
 other review on here the one glaring pitfall of this game is the sword based combat. That is why 
 I could not in good conscience give this game above a 8.5.
  
  While on the topic of updates it drives me up the wall when I hear people talk about "simple" fixes 
 while programming. Very rarely are there any simple fixes, think of it like the dutch boy and the 
 dike story. Plug one hole and two more spring up in it's place. What I truly want to say to the 
 gaming community is, be patient. There are a lot of things that you do not know so often the fix 
 is not as straight forward as you believe. If you are a self taught programming god well good put 
 your knowledge to the test , get some certs. and make some money with your ability. If your are 
 already in the market well take pleasure in knowing that you are superior and bask in your own 
 glory. 
  
  Sorry for the above rant but just some things about the community that really get me a tad riled 
 up. Now onto the best part of the game, ship to ship combat. While it is not entirely realistic 
 from the standpoint of what ship can kill what. It does allow for people to truly use their skills 
 and see who is better. Case in point one friend and myself took on a "Postilione" Frigate with 
 two Bermuda sloops. We nearly won by out maneuvering and destroying his crew rather than trading 
 broadsides with him. But alas he got lucky and well we had to beat a hasty retreat. It is that 
 dynamic coupled with the wind effects that make this game really shine. The ships are by no means 
 "nerfed" but it allows for superior tactics and skill to offset shear brute force. So knowing this 
 don't get mad if you have this huge ship and try to pick on some lower level characters in PvP 
 and lose because they have the foresight to know that they can't go toe to toe with you. 
  
  Graphically the water is great and the seascape does not get all the boring. However be advised 
 the world is pretty big, to go from east to west the whole trip will take you almost 30 minutes 
 to go from end to end. There is now fast travel to get you from one place to another. There is 
 a minor exploit with the ferry function if you have a ship in that port, but what is the fun in 
 that. The land and towns do get a tad redundant but I overlook that because well you are meant 
 to be at sea doing what you see fit. So I could care less about it, but you may. 
  
  The only other real gripe that I have about this game is the NPC spawns. There are some areas where 
 there are enemies way too weak to warrant stopping to kill them. Then you sail another 40 miles 
 then BAM!! Level 47 Myrmidon Frigate. So in a few miles I went from Level 5-15 NPC's to level 35-45?? 
 A small issue but all in all not bad considering how well the overall game is.
  
  So in closing a really good game on a lot of fronts. Not by any means perfect but the fun and enjoyment 
 that I have gotten out of it are more than worth the money for the game and membership.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mjanderson68
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 3, 2008 10:39 am PT
Review:  Played through most of beta and didn't think it was worth even buying. It does have it's strong 
 points: Naval battle is fun and has some strategic angles to it. Player creation/clothing is extensive. 
 Player economy is interesting.
  
  But that's about it. If you stick with the game you will quickly max out in level and after that 
 there isn't much to do but PvP. Boil it down and the game is a guild (or society) based PvP game 
 with some PvE to level and, even worse, some PvE necessary as part of the PvP game (You have to 
 do PvE missions to open up the best parts of the PvP game) . Think of DAoC but taking only 2 months 
 to reach max level and you have the idea. And because it's more about strategy and coordination, 
 end PvP is dominated by well coordinated societies. Casual players can help by doing the PvE parts 
 of the game but will never be in the final battles.
  
  Hand to Hand combat is terrible. Graphics (outside of ship battles) is dated already. Can't really 
 comment on lag as I was in beta.
  
  Final Opinion: This should be a game without a montly fee. Not really sure what they can offer 
 in updates since they can't expand the geography of the game, new classes don't really fit given 
 what they already have. More ships I'm assuming, as well as more PvE quests (which most people 
 won't see anyway as it's so quick to level) . If I didn't have to plunk down $15 a month this would 
 be a game I would pick up every couple of months for an afternoon just to enjoy the naval combat. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jazilla
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 2, 2008 9:57 pm PT
Review:  For various reasons I am skeptical of playing a Sony Online Entertainment game. While this game 
 has a lot to improve upon, it has a strong foundation. The seafaring is gorgeous. the number of 
 ships is astonishing. It has 122 ships that are worth sailing and some tiny ones not worth mentioning. 
 The ships are gorgeous and all have their own strengths and weaknesses. The classes are nice and 
 fit their roles accordingly. There are also good reasons for choosing to play a few different professions. 
 There are four factions in this game and the PvP allows you to control the various ports in the 
 Caribbean. While the world is large, there is not a lot going on out in the open sea. The one drawback 
 to the game is that it really is just one big body of water. Besides some of the land based combat 
 which isn't really prevalent in this game, there isn't any variation in the landscape. I am sure 
 that there are some sea creatures to be discovered in the Bermuda triangle, but I am not at a level 
 where I feel safe risking my ship to brave those waters just yet. The sailing is a blast though, 
 with too many variables for me to list all of them here. The crafting is fun and rewarding. If 
 you like pirates, you will definitely want to give this game a go. You get the first 30 days for 
 free with purchase. I think that $15 a month is a bit steep, although it seems like all MMO's feel 
 that is what they should charge. I feel like $5 or $10 a month would have been a better price for 
 this game though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cjsidler02
Rating: 5.5
Date: Feb 8, 2008 10:29 am PT
Review:  This game simply takes the fun out of being a pirate or a person during those times. Please read 
 til the end. I'm not trying to completely bash this game. It has its ups and downs but it isn't 
 for everyone.
  
  The Good:
  
  -Ship combat is addictive and fun. 
  
  -Some ports have great graphics and were made with great detail.
  
  The Bad:
  
  -Everything 
 is instanced. From ports, to ship combat, to boarding combat. Nothing is fun about being in an 
 intense ship battle and then when boarding an enemy being teleported into a ship instance. When 
 you board an enemy ship, you are teleported into an instance of a ship where you and your 6 guys 
 stand on the stern of the ship and your opposing captain and his 6 guys on the bow. Then you charge 
 and stand in a big mob just swinging your sword once every few seconds. Its especially fun when 
 all of the enemies simply decide to attack you and run past all of your other crew. The ports are 
 clickable instances that sit at the edge of the water and don't even reach the non-sand part of 
 the land. 
  
  -Many of the ports in the game are copy/pasted! Literally the exact same port with a different 
 name. And the ones that don't, just have a different layout of the exact same NPCs.
  
  -There is simply barely any exploration. You cannot explore any of the land on the map and the 
 open sea gets boring. Every island looks the same, every beach.
  
  -Graphics are lackluster. I would venture to say WoW has better graphics and I hate that game. 
 I don't care how "great" the water looks in PotBS.
  
  -In the higher population servers (the others are empty and boring) it seems every port is always 
 up for contention. Pretty much every where becomes PvP. 
  
  -Quests are all the same, over and over again. Multiple land quests use the same instance.
  
 
  -You can't jump. CMON! Each area, port, instance, etc. has invisible walls. You can't step off 
 a porch on a building in a port if its higher than half a foot tall. You get to the water in a 
 port and cannot step in or swim. You walk too far one way and hit an invisible wall.
  
  -Character customization leaves everyone looking the same. Its not as complex as you think.
  
 
  -The economy has a very steep learning curve. Some people get it, many people don't.
  
  -There really is nothing to this game. You don't work your way up working as a crew member on a 
 different ship, you don't actually swing onto the other ship when boarding, using a pistol enemies 
 can dodge your bullets when you are standing a foot away from them, the interface takes up a lot 
 of space and does not help you at all (group quests don't say who in the group has it, just a number, 
 no quest arrows, etc.) .
  
  -The game proves to be laggy for many players (including myself) , especially in big ports. And 
 yes, I have a very high-speed cable connection and a recently completely upgraded computer so I 
 could play Crysis and CoD4.
  
  
  I could go on and on I'm sorry to say because I had such high expectations for such a rigorously 
 advertised game. Any questions about it, PM me. The only reason why I have hope is because the 
 DEV team seems hard working and it seems like they care. Maybe in a couple years they will have 
 changed a lot making it much better. Until then, R. I. P. 50 bux. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cresley
Rating: 5
Date: Jun 10, 2008 1:00 pm PT
Review:  I've been playing PotBS since the Open Beta started. I've always been one that likes the detail 
 in a game and this game has the details. 
  
  Crafting is like it should be. I don't see my hammer raise up and smack an anvil that magically 
 appears to make me a sweater. I have to make or buy the parts to make an item, it's not loot drops. 
 
  
  Market is player driven; if only one person sells it, the cost may be pretty high. If you want 
 a low price, make it yourself and drive that guy out of business.
  
  You are both an avatar and you can command a ship. It would be nice to escape in a row boat when 
 you get sunk but it's still pretty cool.
  
  The death penalty is pretty week, almost non existent really.
  
  Like most MMO's you have to 
 get in a group to get the full appreciation of the game. That being said you can solo all but a 
 hand full of missions and those missions aren't required. so you can log in and play for a few 
 minutes or stay for the night, either way is fine. However, a group will keep you coming back.
 
  
  Communications could be a little better, but many games have a hard time with this one.
  
  All in all, this is a must buy. 
  
  Edited after playing a while...
  The game play is 
 very limited once you move up levels. The game is very dependent on others to buy your crafts and 
 if they don't you don't make any money. There is no money in PVP so you very soon just run out. 
 Large guilds can make it further in the game but after the map wins people lose interest in the 
 game and it has become very apparent that this game, although started with a bang, has all but 
 d. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: noobpolean1st
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 1, 2008 10:00 am PT
Review:  I was first drawn to check this game out by the pirate theme and was even more intrigued by the 
 economic and PvP possibilities. So far, I'm not disappointed.
  
  Nearly everything worth having in the game is created by another player... or yourself. These items, 
 ranging from consumables to the ships themselves, are available from NPC merchants, but they are 
 much more effective when created by another player... and in many cases, much cheaper. Freetraders 
 are able to make even better items with better efficiency as they go up in level.
  
  Speaking of levels... It's nice to know that if you are a lower level player than another, skill 
 is a lot more important. If you are a good sailor in your puny low level ship, don't be surprised 
 if you actually take down a higher level ship through outmaneuvering and superior tactics. 
  
  The RvR is pretty interesting. Each port has a unique set of resources available and in some 
 cases, exclusive to that port. This is great for the nation who controls that port. Others can 
 still use it, in most cases, but pay high taxes for production. So... you take the port. This requires 
 cooperation on a large scale. From causing unrest by performing missions and turning in items, 
 to PvP and PvE combat in the surrounding waters. It climaxes in a 25 vs. 25 battle where, for two 
 hours, the defending and attacking nations go at it to determine who will control the port. Being 
 able to capture the port adds to an overall score that contributes to the domination of the Caribbean.
 
  
  This game has something for everybody... you can do missions all the time, do nothing but make 
 a fortune selling ships, hunt other players, or join up with a society (guild) and contribute to 
 the conquest of the entire sea.
  
  System wise... at first the lag and loading was horrible to the point that I almost quit and went 
 back to Warcraft. Adding a mere 1/2 G, making it 1.5 G was more than adequate for me to be able 
 to enjoy the game without fear of being dead by the time the screen loaded. 
  
  Support wise, I've gotten the impression that FLS generally cares about their game. Seems like 
 that should be obvious, but we know that it doesn't often seem that way with other games. I kinda 
 get the impression they made this game so they could play it themselves and we're just invited 
 to play along. They have been on the ball for fixing bugs and content and are constantly working 
 on new stuff... and the game has only been out for two weeks? 
  
  It's a better than average game with the potential to become a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Anofalye
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 1, 2008 7:11 am PT
Review:  I always hate when I dislike a game, and I hate even more talking ill of it.
  
  First, in 3 games sessions I was unable to manage to complete 4 hours of playing, me that usually 
 sit for 8-14 hours per playing session; this alone serves as a warning and also as a final judgment, 
 anything else I can say doesn't matter compared to this fact.
  
  Here are a few main points that really annoy me:
  
  - Blank graphics... I am not a graphic whore, 
 but these graphics feels like a chore just to watch them. I can feel bored artists.
  
  - No jumping. This is a detail to many peoples, but when I run/walk around, I like to jump or to 
 see that my character is lively in a way, or another. I feel this character is a guy who lives 
 it whole life, and then, choose to spent it old days on the sea... Ar... well... after I go to the 
 bathroom sorry.
  
  - PvP avoidance is unclear... if I want to make sure I don't get in PvP, what do I do?
  
  - 
 Character customisation... I feel all characters look alike, a variants of 3 or 4 basic designs. 
 I come from City of Villains however, maybe average MMO-er would find this aspect nice, I know 
 MMORPG. com did.
  
  - Boats are lifeless. What is FUN about been a boat? The game fails on this level. In Auto Assault 
 (RIP) , there was something fun about been a car, and the game still died. Here, despite much bigger 
 support from marketing and all, the popular movies for the setting and much more... the game lacks 
 at making been a boat FUN.
  
  - Complexity, for the sake of complexity, is never a good thing. What little deepness this game 
 has, is wrapper around complexity... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NoseArt
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 31, 2008 11:02 am PT
Review:  Ok let's talk Pirates of the Burning Sea. Flying Labs Software's ambitious pirate themed MMO. I'm 
 a fan of the whole 'old world' history and of anything that borrows from its themes and settings. 
 I played the original SM Pirates! game as well as its current sequal. I was alos a huge fan of 
 Akella's original Sea Dogs game. Sea Dogs 2 was to be the sequal to Akella's game but was snatched 
 up by Disney at the lead up to release of the first Pirates of the Caribbean movie. The PC game 
 Sea Dogs 2 became Pirates of the Caribbean and ended up being a rushed out release that had nothing 
 to do with the movie but in name alone (visit Piratesahoy. net to find the 'build' mod that makes 
 that game great) . Now I mention SM Pirates! 2 and Disney's PotC games because I feel that if you 
 combine those you get a good representation of what Pirates of the Burning Sea (PotBS) is.
  
  First off, do I like PotBS? Definitely. Are there problems and shortcomings? Of course.
  
 
  Graphics - In truth these graphics are startlingly 4 years ago. They remind me exactly of the graphics 
 in the PotC game. Those were, and still are to an extent, very pleasing graphics but for a 2008 
 MMO with a monthly fee you just expect more eye candy. Now the artwork isn't bad, the game is quite 
 colorful and seemingly true to the time period and the water and reflections look pretty, even 
 though I would have expected water more like is seen in Silent Hunter 4 for an ambition open sea 
 pirate MMO. The overall texture work could be greatly improved, espically in towns. Nothing looks 
 organic enough. However I guess my biggest gripe is more towards the models and geometry. Everything 
 is squareish and the amount of clipping on player models is borderline ridiculous. 
  
  The player creation system is nice, not quite the amount of clothing options or faces/hair you'd 
 expect, no height/build changes, but overall is better than most. It is not quite near to CoH/CoV's 
 creation system despite all the comparisons you may have heard.
  
  The sky is dissapointingly a skybox. The illusion of cloud movement is done through a line of puffy 
 clouds that continuously moves from left to right across the horizon. It looks kind of cool and 
 may be a way to represent the 'earth is flat' mentality from the time period but the clouds that 
 make up this and the skybox are noticeably grainy.
  
  Sound - The sound is very good and appropriate. Everything seems to fit very well for the setting 
 and does a good job of projecting your actions. Voice acting is very good. Ambient sounds also 
 do a great job of getting you into the setting. All the sound seem very authentic; nothing appears 
 to be 'canned'. The music is good although there doesn't seem to be much of it. 
  
  Now onto gameplay.
  
  Gameplay - There are basically 2 gameplay systems in this game. Swashbuckling 
 (land based fighting) and Captain/Open Sea (ship battles) . When you level you gain points that 
 can be spent in Swashbuckling and Captain. You choose from a large list of different skill sets 
 that are either passive or toggles. 
  
  For Swashbuckling you may choose things like pistol shooting, or 'dirty trick' styles like an elbow 
 to the face or dust in the eyes. Later you can select from other fighting styles, Florentine or 
 Fencing. Florentine being a 2 sword fighting style and Fencing being that more proper French-style 
 sword fighting.
  
  With Captain you select skills like Intimidation where it reduces the morale of your opponent ship 
 or Target Weakness where the oppenent suffers a defense reduction. 
  As I've said there are many different skills sets to choose from but it can be hard at this point 
 to know if you're choosing correctly or effeciently since there's no real guide in game. I would 
 suggest if you're new to choose skills based on your class and play style, which is common sense 
 anyway.
  
  Now that I've covered a bit about the skill sets let's talk about actual gameply of the 2 systems.
 
  
  Swashbuckling, again, is the land based fighting system that is basically your melee in the game. 
 (It can also take place out to see when attempting to capture other ships during boarding sequences) . 
 SB seems tacked on for this game and the animation and overally combat is awkward and often downright 
 ugly. There's much model clipping and the movement is too fast during battle and when you suffer 
 defeat or experience victory there's this awful, awful sequence that involves you and all the other 
 npcs engaging in a canned animation of either raising your arms in victory or pleading for your 
 life. It's just terribly cheesy. I'm hoping that this is all possibly 'placeholder' type stuff 
 and it eventually gets replaced by more professional content worthy of a premium $14.99 subscription 
 MMO.
  
  Captain/Open Sea - This is where the game shines. You can tell most of the development started 
 here and would know this if you had been following the game for the past few years. It is very 
 much like any of the single player games you may have played in the past. However in an MMO setting 
 where there's PvP involved and on such a larger scale it is much more exciting. The navigation 
 is quite simple. You raise/lower your sails with W and S and you steer with A and D. However the 
 finesse comes in knowing when to do it and even further by using skills that enhance things like 
 maneuvering or speed. Combat works by being withing certain distance and being aligned and basically 
 pressing space bar. Again the finesse comes in which of the many types of shot you fire and how 
 fast you can get them loaded. These of course can be modified further by the many number of skills 
 you can acquire through leveling. What's great is that even at Level One you can sink other NPC 
 ships if you play it right. I created a pirate and at level 1 went right into open sea and was 
 sinking level 7 NPC ships. I could have easily been defeated but knowing how to sail and fight 
 and using your skills wisely you can come out on top.
  
  There is a much touted player-driven economy in the game and a Freetrader merchant class you can 
 play. I haven't been engaged in the economy much at all but it conists of your typical gathering 
 resource, crafting, and selling. There is a pretty good economy tutorial you can take at the beginning 
 that does a good job of introduction and getting you out and about the Caribbean but it could use 
 some further work. (A bit too much running back and forth, and needs more goods production examples.) 
 One of the very cool features of the game comes when, as a trader, you need to transport goods 
 from one port to the next and you need escort. The escort comes through player naval officers. 
 Perhaps this is a good alternative to all those who hoped SOE would implement a true smuggling 
 system in SWG. Speaking of smuggling, Pirates (and possibly privateers) can engage in smuggling. 
 This basically involves you filling your ships with contraband and traversing the open sea trying 
 to avoid attention (of which there are skills to allow/enhance this) .
  
  
  Good:
  
  -Pirates!
  -Open sea and ships to build, steal, destroy, acquire, enhance, and personalize.
 
  -Ship battles are engaging and fun, especially in groups.
  -Open sea is quite large and gives a good feeling of adventure.
  -NPC AI is good in the Open 
 Sea and offers a challenge more often than not in my experience.
  -Port contention (Realm vs. Realm)
  -An engaging PvP system that doesn't entirely include or 
 exclude everyone. It's just part of the world you 'live' in. (No need for a FFA PvP server or a 
 Non-PvP server)
  -Lots of interesting and engaging skills to choose from.
  -Promising player-driven economy.
  -Great sound
  -Great writing and lore. 
  -Better than 
 most character creation
  -Nice ship customization (player created content of flags and sails too)
  -Developers active 
 on the burningseas. com forums
  -Content submission system for devs to consider including more player created content and ideas.
 
  
  Bad
  
  -Graphics appear very dated.
  -Character animations are generally not smooth and most are clumsy looking
  -Melee combat system 
 needs much improvement
  -World doesn't quite feel organic enough, texture and artwork need to be improved.
  -Lag. There 
 appears to be ineffienct game file/code structure or something going on as 
  there is lag seemingly independent of whatever hardware you're running or net connection you have.
 
  -No day/night cycles. Day or night is set through whatever instance you load into. (Just like 
 the Pirates of the Caribbean/Sea Dogs games) . This may bother some and can affect your 'the world 
 is alive' feeling.
  -No local weather. Weather occurrs only on the sea, not on land.
  -No free roaming/adventuring on land. Restricted to port towns.
  -Too many loading screens. Every 
 door leads to a loading screen.
  -Clunky chat system.
  
  
  
  Other things to note:
  
  Open Sea is more of a top-down view of your ship on a slightly cartoonish looking map. However 
 it does look nice and everything is animated including water and ship bobbing. 
  But if you're hoping for standing on the deck of your ship in first person and moving about, climbing 
 your rigging, going below, or looking through a spy glass. Unfortunately there's none of that. 
 Which if you further think upon can be very dissapointing for a Pirate/Ship themed RPG.
  
  The Developers are active as well as on the official forums.
  Patches seem timely, consistent, 
 and best of all beneficial. As a matter of fact I believe a patch is out due today that addresses 
 some of the lag I mentioned earlier as well as many (1000+ according to their site) that address 
 minor bugs.
  More content and enhancements on the way including chat and UI enhancements.
  
  Players are encouraged and enabled to include their own content in the game.
  
  The retail 
 box contains a nice set consisting of a good, but basic manual. 
  Very nice folded poster/map of the game world. 
  A nice ship guidebook. 
  A glossy quick reference 
 card. 
  14-day Buddy Key.
  
  The game is on 2 DVDs and installs in about 15 min. Further downloading as of 1/28/2008 can take 
 you about 20-30 more minutes.
  
  So do I like PotBS. Yes and it is my new MMO home. I've played them all from EQ to this and everything 
 in between. And while my biggest gripe is the graphics and animation this game is a breath of fresh 
 air. It's got lots of potential, but really that can be said for most MMOs. However the bad of 
 this game is primarily superficial but unfortuneately can easily undermine the lots of good many 
 will find if they stick it out for just a little while.
  
  Also, there aren't 10 million playing this game. You may even find some discussion that player 
 population is grossly inadequate. If you judge a game by numbers then move along. For all that 
 it is, PotBS is probably going to cater more towards the niche of folks who, like me, like the 
 themes and settings and are tired of the fantasy genre in MMOs. However you will find on the many 
 of the more populated servers plenty of folks to socialize with. And the numbers will likely increase 
 as the game improves and word-of-mouth spreads. This is a good game, a breath of fresh air, and 
 will do well because after all is said and done there is solid gameplay here.
  
  Breakdown:
  Graphics - 7
  Sound - 9
  Gameplay - 8.5
  Story - 10
  
  Overall - 8.5
 
  
  
  Hope this review helps you if you're interested in trying Pirates of the Burning Sea. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snowyjoe
Rating: 4
Date: Jan 30, 2008 11:52 pm PT
Review:  Pirates of the Burning Sea plays a bit like EVE. You own a ship, you fight other ships, you get 
 money and loot and you help make yourself and your country stronger (only yourself if your a pirate)
 
  
  The ship combat is very simple but very smooth. It plays like a normal ship and you have cannon 
 on both sides, you fire them once you get close enough and you turn around to get to a better position 
 or you just stay their and see if your ship can hold.
  
  Pirates of the Burning Sea plays like most pirate games. You have wind, you have a compass and 
 you have a sail.
  Ofcourse running into the wind will make your ship slower or make it sail backwords or maybe turn, 
 apart from having the wind on your back making your ship go faster.
  
  The only thing how ever is that if you have the wind blowing against you and your enemies are a 
 few yards away it will take some time before you can actually get into the action. 
  Some times it feels like ages untill you can acturally fire your first cannon!
  Your heart dosn't 
 pump and you really don't get all hyper about how cool that battle was.
  
  The Avatar to the game looks good but pretty much servres no perpose. 
  You are hardely in town 
 and even if you are thats only for a little while and your enemies can't really see your black 
 hat and one eyed parrot when their fireing cannon balls at you. 
  
  There are some combat up on dry land as well. 
  You can park your ship near a island filled with 
 pirates or attack a outpost of a enemy nation. 
  But the combat lacks alot. You have a handful of moves and all you do is mash the right mouse button 
 and some numbers like 1111223111.
  
  Pirates of the Burning Sea dosn't feel massive. It feels like your stuck playing battle ships inside 
 your bath tub. There really isn't much to explore apart from finding new towns and places, but 
 mostly you see is just water.
  
  Over all PotBS is a game where if you like free form MMORPG, and you love Pirates, being stuck 
 on a ship for hours and hours. Then this is the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: varlock
Rating: 3.5
Date: Jan 30, 2008 5:19 pm PT
Review:  Game is so-so. The real problem is network lag. It's fun to get into a battle and get lag so bad, 
 that by the time you update you've lost the battle. Yea, that's fun. Oh, and did I mention Sonly's 
 "World Class" customer support? It's hard to believe now, but back when I was playing Everquest, 
 you could actually get someone on the phone to help you. I'm SERIOUS! Can you imagine Sony actually 
 talking to you today, and trying to help you? Forget it. In their view, it's not worth it. If you 
 have trouble, you're going to be bascially on your own. All you'll get from them, at best, is a 
 "form e-mail". So if you buy the game and have problems, you basically out of luck (and 40 or 50 
 bucks to boot) . So beware.
  
  If you insist on playing this mediocre entry, give it a few months. I doubt Sony will put much 
 money into fixing the problems, but ya never know. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rpgguide
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 30, 2008 3:48 pm PT
Review:  It's a fun game early on but I really don't consider this a massive multiplayer game. It's more 
 of a massive singleplayer game with some PVP battles added in. The community of players seems somewhat 
 absent to me. Just not much interaction taking place because so much of the game is instanced. 
 Whether you are in a port city or out on the open sea about the only thing you will see from the 
 other players is them on their way to another solo battle. If this is your thing then you will 
 like it as for me it just lacked that multiplayer element that keeps me logging back in.
  
  I really feel the devs forgot that a strong community of people interacting is what makes an MMO 
 still interesting years later. It's a fun game but I just can't classify this as a massive multiplayer 
 game. Just one man's opinion.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: littlebloo
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 29, 2008 10:30 pm PT
Review:  When I first heard the mechanics behind Pirates of the Burning Sea, I was a little skeptical. I 
 had played Sid Meier: Pirates and the game overall seemed exactly the same, just on a slightly 
 larger scale. Nevertheless, being an avid pirate fan since early childhood, my husband and I picked 
 it up. Needless to say, I was surprised.
  
  I have read other reviews of this game and whole-heartedly admit that it has a lot in common with 
 Sid Meier: Pirates, but in fact it's a lot more complicated than that. The naval battle system 
 is engrossing and very strategic. A few wrong moves and you are in Davey Jones' Locker. At first, 
 this frustrated me because I kept dying (a couple times losing my ship permanently) , but with practice 
 and changed tactics, I became a "great warrior of the waters". The melee combat is fun and it, 
 too requires a certain level of strategy. If you want a game that is a simple button-mashing twitch-fest, 
 you are looking in the wrong place. This game requires calculating and planning if you ever want 
 to succeed. To some, this may seem like it has the world's hardest learning curve, but to me it 
 breaks the monotony of missions, because even though many of the missions are "Defeat X" or "Rescue 
 Y", no mission feels the same. Wind direction, ship type, type of shot used, and line of sight 
 are just some of the factors in your victory or defeat.
  
  The visuals of the game are gorgeous! I find myself mesmerized by the realism of the tides and 
 the vast Caribbean settings. Character creation is highly customizable. With the exception of the 
 many cliched pirates I have seen around, no two people look exactly alike. I play City of Heroes 
 religiously, so character creation was one of the factors I had in whether or not this game was 
 worth it. This was a problem I had with World of Warcraft, but that's a whole other review.
  
  But with the good comes the bad and unfortunately this game has a few glaring flaws:
  
 
  1) There seem to be too many servers and not enough people to completely fill them. As such, you 
 will come across ports/towns that have little to no people within them, sometimes making them pointless 
 to go to in the first place. This also poses a problem for the PvP factor. After all, how can it 
 be player vs. player if there are no players? It poses an additional problem for the factions themselves, 
 as there is a great imbalance. The Pirates and the British seem to be the most popular, followed 
 by the Spanish. The French, however are just plain outnumbered and, from the looks of it, SOL.
 
  
  2) As with a lot of games in their infancy, PotBS has a rather sizable list of bugs at this time. 
 They range from lag issues (lag-death can be a big issue) to glaring and annoying glitches and 
 server crashes. While I know the devs are working hard to fix these problems (the many forum posts 
 make that clear) , it can and has driven a sizable number of people away
  
  3) The travel times between ports can be excruciating. While travel times in other games can be 
 very long and tedious (such as World of Warcrafts fly points) , you can usually leave your computer 
 be while you travel. This game does not give you that option. After all, the seas are a dangerous 
 place! You must sit and navigate your way around other pirates or risk being sunk.
  
  4) The game is very vague when it comes to teaching you things. The tutorial explains things very 
 briefly then sends you on your merry way. While you end up grasping things eventually, PotBS really 
 leaves you to your own devices. Trial and error is your best option right now. In fact, despite 
 having played the game for countless hours, there are still some things that I haven't fully figured 
 out, such as the deeper mechanics of melee combat (right now it's a bit of a gamble) and the workings 
 of the auction house.
  
  All that aside, it is a very, VERY addicting game. I find myself glued to it for hours on end. 
 My only advice to anyone turned off by any of the aforementioned flaws is to be patient. Pirates 
 of the Burning Sea is a fledgling MMORPG with innovative and revolutionary ideas implemented in 
 the best way possible. Enjoy and see you on the open waters! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spaaz69
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 29, 2008 7:06 am PT
Review:  As previously mentioned, Pirates of The Burning Sea (PoTBS) has been out since January 22, allowing 
 players to live out one of their two dreams, being a Pirate. The other dream of course, a ninja. 
 Maybe one day a savvy game developer will make a game that incorporates pirates and ninjas, perhaps 
 call it, Pinjas! Alas, we are left to only dwell on such possibilities.
  
  Much to my discretion, I decided to pick up PoTBS after hearing horror stories from beta testers 
 ranging from the horrible lag all the way to the dreaded SOE involvement (which thus far, seems 
 minimal) . Admittedly, I had to push myself through the first few levels, fighting the urge of buyer's 
 remorse. Thankfully, now at level 10, I can honestly say that, so far, the game is actually quite 
 enjoyable. Is it the Mecca of which all Games/MMO's will bow and sacrifice small little puppies 
 for? No, it has its faults, but if given a chance, one is able to overlook them. Within the first 
 10 levels I have taken out a Crime Lords Tactician, his brute, and eventually... the Crime Lord 
 Himself. I have defended my starting harbor from an impending assault, extracted revenge for a 
 fellow pirate by defeating her opponent's son in battle and eventually her opponent. But, most 
 importantly, I swash buckled my way into the local bar, extracted the ruffians, and became the 
 bartenders favorite customer (we should all be so lucky) .
  
  
  
  Now, don't let me give you the wrong idea, as I'm sure you're reading this thinking of Jack Sparrow 
 swinging from a Chandelier and back flipping off of a table; doing a Zoroesque fencing maneuver 
 to decimate his opponents. If it were possible, I wouldn't be writing this as I'd be glued to my 
 monitor. Unfortunately, the hand to hand combat system is, for a better lack of a word, craptacular. 
 Flying Labs has acknowledged this stating that was not the primary focus of the game, but it still 
 doesn't make up for the pure yawn inducing boredom it creates. Besides, pirates don't want to *clank* 
 *clank*, we want to *BOOM* *BOOM*, set sail across the Caribbean, pillage and plunder... ARRRRR!!!! 
 *Cough*, sorry. 
  
  If the hand to hand combat hasn't turned you off yet; you're wincing with one eye opened still 
 reading in hopes of better news, pat yourself on the back, you made it through the hard part. The 
 one aspect everyone is curious about is the sailing, how is it, what is it like, do you truly feel 
 like a pirate? The sailing and ship fights almost completely make up for the sub par land fighting. 
 If you have played Sid Mire's "Pirates" then you have a good knowledge of what to expect, but that's 
 not to say it's a bad thing. In fact, it takes what "Pirates" did and improves upon it, allowing 
 players to customize their ships with different upgrades to how the ship looks. The game also allows 
 for player made Flags and Sails that other players may purchase in game (with in game currency) 
 to add to their ship. Ship battles are not a quick affair; actually they are slow and meticulous. 
 Players must account for several factors such as wind direction, ammunition, ship speed, ship positioning, 
 etc. As the old saying goes, "There's more than one way to sink a ship," Players may opt to just 
 blow a ship out of the water, disable it, even board the enemies ship. Thankfully, the ship control 
 is very responsive and while battles can get a little hectic from time to time, it's not unmanageable 
 for the novice. Flying Labs has given the players an in game option to adjust the difficulty levels 
 of missions giving them a chance to learn the ropes and increasing the difficulty once they have 
 the basics down.
  
  Battling on the open seas isn't the only option for players as there is a very intricate economic 
 system in place for players to build their in game fortunes. As I'm still relatively new to the 
 economics of the game, I can't really say much about this area except from what I have read and 
 see in the possibilities, it has the potential to add a whole new dimension to the game.
  
  So far, after a rocky start, the game is growing on me and bringing out my inner pirate. So much 
 so that my co-workers are worried since I've tried to sink and/or board their ships, or as they 
 call them... cars, pfff land lubbers! For those still not sold, I would suggest wait for a free 
 trial in a couple of months, for others that looking for something new that doesn't involve elves 
 or dragons for a change, then I say baton down the hatches and hoist the main sail... there's treasure 
 to found and fortunes to make! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Skrotorr
Rating: 3.5
Date: Jan 28, 2008 7:30 pm PT
Review:  This game quickly developed scurvy once it hit the open sea. If you go to the official forums, 
 you will see that the board for reporting bugs and discussing issues has a thread count twice that 
 of any other. I can't possibly list them all here, but serious server issues that led to loss of 
 items, doubloons, ships, equipment, avatars and levels have cause many to mutiny or jump ship. 
 The missions are unbalanced and quirky as is the PVP and port contentions. Pirates of the Burning 
 Sea? More like Pirates of the Burning Bag of Poo. Perhaps someday this game will amount to something, 
 but for now, it's horribly repetitive, shallow, and buggy.
  
  The only thing positive that I can say about this game that lends it a glimmer of hope sometime 
 in the future, is the dev team. They seem to really does care about developing this into a fun 
 and satisfying experience for the gamer in all of us. I'll more than likely go back to it in a 
 couple of months after it has had a chance to recover from release-beta woes. In the meantime, 
 spend your hard earned cash on a different game. It's certainly not worth $50 at this point in 
 time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: teemu
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 28, 2008 4:36 am PT
Review:  To start with, I had NO hopes what so ever for this game after recent MMOs like LOTRO or Vanguard, 
 as I thought both of them to be HUGE dissappointments. So I started to play PotBS with a really 
 sceptic attitude. What I found was both good and bad. The good being the old Sid Maier Pirates 
 feeling, the bad being the feeling of a yet another unfinished MMO and still they have had like 
 5 WHOLE YEARS!?! :o
  
  I've played too short a time to say if the game has any real long time value, but I am enjoying 
 my stay right now. My hope is also that the unfinished state of the game will give it a really 
 nice chance to evolve to something great, but that remains to be seen...
  
  As for it being a MMO, I haven't had ANY contact what so ever with other players, but I hear PvP 
 is both challenging and fun, so I am looking forward to that (just need to climb a couple of more 
 levels ;) ) . Otherwise for the PvE I'm not sure that groups are even needed, but the economy is 
 almosst wholly playerbased and feels huge, so that's a BIG plus.
  
  If you want something like WoW, DON'T buy this game, as you will be gruelly disappointed (thank 
 God!) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkDisciple90
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 26, 2008 7:20 pm PT
Review:  First let me start off by mentioning the character creation. It is incredibly detailed, there are 
 many different choices for every option, and each part of your character comes in a near limitless 
 combination of colors. You will NEVER see two identical players in this game. The customization 
 allows people to create a character specifically for their own sense of style, my Naval Officer 
 is clad in a black trench coat with long black and red hair underneath a bandanna. He looks totally 
 different than anyone else, hell, you can even chose the highlights in their eyes for gods sake!
 
  
  The game play itself is very well done with a lot of variety, it does take some getting used to, 
 as it is much more about tactics than your typical MMO, It actually feels more like a strategy 
 game at some points, which is great! Melee fighting is actually a lot more fun than it looks, the 
 naval battles on the other hand are JUST as fun as it looks. With a 100% player driven economy, 
 a large open world, and the occasional large scale port battles, this really is a game that shouldn't 
 be missed. 
  
  The only real downside is its complex systems for, well, pretty much everything, but once you figure 
 it out you'll have a blast.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Skullz_SS
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 26, 2008 2:06 pm PT
Review:  When I got the game I was skeptical of this being a copy of so many other MMO's but I was pleasantly 
 surprised. It is probably the only game i've seen with this kind of economy where everything in 
 the world is made by players. The ship combat is great, the strategy is nice as you plan your turns 
 and when to unleash the devastating rippling broadside. Graphics are nice, a few glitches but they 
 are releasing patches to fix them. Overall - Very Nice. The Sword fights are interesting but they 
 lack the action of some other mmo's apparently they are releasing patches to make the combat much 
 better. PVP is one of the most innovative things i've seen so far. The PVP effects all of the world 
 and all of the people involved in it. I love this game. Also they are releasing patches to combat 
 the mistakes they have made and I hope that they make it better, the game runs on my 2 year old 
 comp that is honestly a peice.... but it works and runs nice :P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jus9999
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 26, 2008 1:26 pm PT
Review:  To be honest I got this game expecting it to be same old same old with all right but repetitive 
 sailing and the ports to not be up to much but was pleasantly surprised.
  The sailing sections looks good and are simple to get into with enough added depth as you start 
 getting bigger and better ships guns and other extras and skills to keep you on your toes. Most 
 important there also seems to have a sense of fun about the seaborne combat that is reminiscent 
 of older Sid Meier's Pirates with the extra punch from the more advanced 3D engine they have employed. 
 The enjoy is also easy to zoom in and out and swing around you to get a feel for the overall combat 
 or your little bit of it which makes the experience so much more fun.
  The ports also benefit from a very good 3D engine making them a joy to have a quick wander around 
 though I don't claim to have visited them all the ones I have visited seem to be free of graphical 
 glitches mostly (except sometimes when you suddenly appear to be a magical floating sword walking 
 round when it doesn't load the bodies but they are working on this) . The NPC characters could do 
 with a little more depth to them but on the plus side they have added some who are only there for 
 background color to make the port seem more alive and fuller which is appreciated even if it is 
 perfect.
  The combat on land can take a little getting used to at first but on the whole isn't to bad once 
 you get your equipment and skills sorted out and get a bit of practice so your not dieing to often 
 and there aren't to many problems though the characters models could do with a bit more polish 
 as some of them its obvious that the head is just stuck on the body and looks like its not attached 
 properly or the neck is to thick for the rest of the body.
  So on the whole a very good solid game. Faults yes it has them but a lot less so than some MMO-RPG 
 I could mention when they came out or even now and what it does has runs fine on the 2 computers 
 i've tried it on from towards the bottom end and the top end of the specs and the basic elements 
 of the game are there as is the fun factor which is so hard to find in games and almost impossible 
 to add if you don't have some from the start. The other players on the whole seem nice and cheerful 
 and willing to help out with answers and advice when asked. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: captainkire
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 25, 2008 10:45 pm PT
Review:  First I have to point out something: this is an MMO, everyone loves saying how it is a copy of 
 Sid Meir's Pirates but they don't mention that it isn't a multiplayer game.
  The game is great, good graphics, unique game-play (for a MMO) , and an economy system that doesn't 
 make you feel like a tool that only puts out X number of Daggers of Lameness just to increase skill 
 levels.
  Graphics- Some people have a problem with how town designs are copied to many different towns, 
 but considering there are over one hundred of them it would have happened eventually. 
  Swashbuckling- The on-foot combat leaves something to be desired because it was thrown in at the 
 last second during development.
  Economy- I love the economy for making me feel like I actually have a 'job'. In most MMOs you turn 
 out a lot of worthless items and do all the mining/gathering/creating yourself, in Pirates of the 
 Burning Sea you build entire structures (unfortunately you don't get to actually see them or enter 
 them) that are filled with laborers who do all the work you tell them to do.
  Bugs- like any MMO when it gets released this game does have some bugs, but every 1/2 to one full 
 week they come out with a patch that fixes a few more and the game runs more smoothly the more 
 time passes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zlaz
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 25, 2008 10:00 am PT
Review:  While there have been some problems with the launch, (mostly on the distribution side) it has actually 
 gone rather well compared with what I have heard from the launches of many other MMOs. 
  
  The character creation is great. Much more customizable than any MMO I have seen to date. And not 
 only this, but if you decide your character looks funny you can go to a tailor and get some new 
 clothes. As you progress through the game you also receive new clothing options and items for your 
 avatar (peg-legs!) 
  
  Avatar combat is one of the weak points of the game, but it has some interesting features not seen 
 in other games. You have three attributes when you are fighting balance health and initiative, 
 balance helps you hit people and avoid getting hit, initiative allows special attacks and health 
 is well, health. That said it still needs work, but luckily Flying Lab is very in tune with its 
 fans and is working on improving that aspect of the game. 
  
  The economy is amazing. Many don't understand it quite at first, but you don't need to. It is pretty 
 simple to start up a small business and get going on the economy and there is a helpful tutorial. 
 If you do get really into it though the economy is rather large and complex. Economic warfare between 
 the nations is common and the pvp game revolves not only around fighting but also, smuggling and 
 other aspects of the economic game. 
  
  The ship combat is unbeatable in any game I have seen to date. And not only that, it looks beautiful. 
 The ship combat is realistic to the point that if you are a sailor or a naval history fan you will 
 have a slight advantage of tactics, but it is not so realistic that it is not learn-able and tons 
 of fun for those that have never sailed before. 
  
  The pve game is great. The only complaint is that the missions are the same for low levels of any 
 nation (though I think they have already done some to change this) but really there are so many 
 missions in the game that you can always find a fun one to do. There are also many missions in 
 the game that are especially large, you might find yourself in the middle of a town getting attacked, 
 or sailing a raft off an island you got deserted on. 
  
  The pvp game is definitely one of the best parts. One thing about it is that you can always avoid 
 all pvp if you want to. But I think most people will want to participate in the pvp. That said, 
 it is not easy, most level players are viable in pvp as long as they have a decent group or are 
 fast or stealthy. The truth is that it is somewhat similar to real naval warfare in that if an 
 area is contested (pvp) then you will either want to go in with an escort, or you will need to be 
 able to outrun anything bigger than you. The great fun about the pvp is that it has a huge impact 
 on the game world, unlike games like wow where no matter how well you whip the alliance in Arathi 
 basin there is always another game starting in five minutes or so. Once a port has reached a certain 
 point of pvp activity there is a huge battle for the port. Once it is over the port is in the winners 
 hands until someone else decides to take it from them.
  
  I am sure I missed some things but the key about this game is that while there are a few slightly 
 disappointing aspects, the game will only get better. Flying Lab is very in tune with its fans 
 and what they want. They are dedicated to making this game as good as can be. And if you read about 
 their long term plans for this game you will be amazed at the features they want to put in. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JeffreyCor
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 25, 2008 9:45 am PT
Review:  The graphics are very nice both at sea and on land. Navigation is done in a straight forward manor 
 with enough complexity at sea to make it interesting. There are large flaws however. Considering 
 the wide beta testing this went through it is surprising to see enormous game stopping bugs still 
 in place such as continuous loading screens not allowing the player to go any farther without aborting 
 the game and reloading. The production system is a very flawed in its design with the implementation 
 of a very low end game without any graphical representation at all. Buildings and production are 
 all in the abstract with icons listed to show which slots have been filled. In game communication 
 is poor causing the user to have to look back and forth between the avatars and dialog window, 
 there is no bubble messages as other games have for when a character is talking. By comparison, 
 a free MMORPG in the pirates setting has equal or greater development. Without a major overhaul, 
 I recommend skipping this one. It has its fun moments but isn't worth it at the price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DirtyBird1940
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 28, 2008 4:43 pm PT
Review:  I've been playing this for about 20 hours now and love it completely, have no idea why some disslike 
 it. 
  
  The crafting skill system really stands out, you dont have to do some stupid repeditive things 
 to gather resourses to make stuff. You simply construct buildings to make what you want and after 
 the building is ready it gathers hours of labor in real time I think, which you can use to instantly 
 make the goods. It gives real meaning to capturing other ports because you may need some zinc to 
 smelt with copper to make bronze.. if your faction doesnt have any ports with zinc deposits or they 
 are too far away from your center of operation you could attempt to contest an enemy port to fulfill 
 your needs.
  
  The ship combat rocks hardcore, during missions your not garenteed an easy win, I've lost 2 or 
 3 ships from missions and had a couple close calls. It makes combat alot more exciting when you 
 have somthing to loose. It's not very repeditive despite what some are saying each mission varys 
 slightly, though there are a couple that are almost identical.
  
  Swashbuckling is its weakpoint which is where it lost its .5 from my score but I still like when 
 a ground mission comes up its a nice little break from ship combat and I'm sure mastering it and 
 boarding enemy ships would suprise your foe, there tons of different stratagies and skills to choose 
 from.
  
  Character Creation is awsome too, I cant think of another mmo where you can make each individual 
 pieace of clothing whatever color you like and change it at any time by visiting a tailor shop, 
 most of the items you can choose 2 different colors like black coat with white trim for example. 
 I remember DAoC you could dye your clothes but dyes were expencive, in PotBS its completely free 
 keeping no 2 avatars from ever looking alike. You can even create custom sails and flags though 
 I hav'nt looked into that yet.
  
  I think EVE players would love this, its like eve but faster paced .. instead of having to travel 
 somewhere gate after gate for an hour.. you could attack a couple npc or player ships during a long 
 journey. 
  
  Bottom line: This MMO is like no other and is a must buy imo especially if naval combat turns you 
 on. Hope to see ya on the high seas! yarrr 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aleshander
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 24, 2008 4:57 pm PT
Review:  If ever a small company derserves a break it is Flying Lab Software, a private enterprize run by 
 avid gamer Russel "Rusty" Williams in Seattle, Washington. He and his crew worked years on getting 
 a sail ship naval combat game developed that would set them on the map and secure their future. 
 Pirates of the Burning Seas is a game where you can be a pirate, naturally, but it is a whole lot 
 more. As one long time fan put it, "Pirates of the Burning Seas is a game with pirates." There 
 are four nations or factions, each at war with the other. Pirates are only one of the nations. 
 If you are sick and tired of basic shooters or fantasy MMO's then this may be the angle you are 
 looking for.
  
  I quote a fan as there has been a dedicated fanbase for this game for the past four years. Since 
 development was announced it attracted hardcorps historical naval combat types as well as those 
 who just want to let their inner "Yarr!" loose upon the Caribbean. With every step, and misstep, 
 the fans have been there to support, critique, berate or argue with the dev team. Why? It is due 
 to the open relationship the devs have had with the fans. For once a dev team listened to what 
 the fans wanted. The original game was too focused upon strict naval combat and lacked avatar action 
 except as basic traders on the land. Boarding combat was simplistic and Avatar Combat was thought 
 to be too much work to make it in by game release. The original ships designed by Akella lacked 
 detail and were too few in number.
  
  So what did FLS do about these issues? They complete scrapped the game after two years and started 
 over. They worked hard and got not only a boarding system with avatar combat (AvCom) into the game 
 but they added land missions and port conquest with AvCom. They solicited fan designed ships and 
 to make sure they are historically correct hired a fan who just happens to be a museum curator 
 with 30 years expertise in the history of wooden ships and their construction. Most of the ships 
 in the game are player made and they look better than the "professional" ones. To make sure the 
 game would come out looking polished they delayed release from June, 2007. They kept the closed 
 beta going for two years and had one of the longest open beta tests I have seen in the industry. 
 All the while they listened to what worked and what didn't. That brought in the dreaded "nerf this 
 and buff that" fan fights on the forums but they hired another fan to be a full time moderator 
 to the forum community.
  
  What hurts the game the most is the timing of their release and the massive screw-ups that are 
 still plaguing buyers of the game. FLS realized that they needed a partner in the distribution 
 of the game. They negotiated with Sony Online Entertainment (SOE) for distribution as a digital 
 download and as a boxed edition. The fans howled in protest at the word of SOE's involvement and 
 now are saying "We told you so." To be honest, it hasn't all been SOE's sole fault. The wild fires 
 in San Diego County caused a massive evacuation including at the SOE offices right when the "pre-release" 
 was to launch on October 22, 2007. This means nobody was at the helm when things shut down and 
 waiting fans were told it wasn't in the store or it couldn't be shipped.
  
  When the pre-release box was finally available it came out in driblets. The box is supposed to 
 contain a music soundtrack CD and two codes to play the game early and then retain the options 
 of getting bonus goodies later in game. The actual code to play the game on release day comes with 
 the retail box or download. Some people found their boxes had no codes. Others who bought their 
 game online at Amazon. com received their pre-launch codes seperately (and after missing the pre-launch 
 party) but never got the game codes to play. Some retail boxes are missing their game codes. SOE 
 Launcher decided to crap out on release day. The game has had two emergency patches to fix problems 
 including the latest that only affected the owners of the latest and greatest nVidia video cards.
 
  
  The game itself runs fine on both my four year old Dell PC with a nVidia 7800 GS card and on my 
 HP laptop running Vista with 256 meg. shared graphics video. There are some memory leaks with the 
 game that causes graphical errors but most missions are doable. Yes, some missions are bugged. 
 Some of the same ones that we reported through beta testing. (My wife and I beta tested for most 
 of 2007.) They are being worked on. It is sad but true that no game ever released is free of bugs. 
 The devs are already working on the first expansion, a freebie that will be released sometime in 
 March. It will have further missions and stories for those who hit the level cap (level 50) . High 
 end content has been something that everyone has demanded as the power levelers are already in 
 the high 20's before the first week is complete.
  
  Buy this game if you want to play something different in a MMO. Beware, the economy is a tough 
 lesson in free market economics. I hope the player base justifies the many, many servers FLS has. 
 But like most MMO's I've played I expect that there will be server merges before six months is 
 up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bafucin81
Rating: 1
Date: Feb 18, 2008 11:33 am PT
Review:  * Character creation: Well it's not that bad. Still I think most of it turns you into a Pirate 
 looking guy and that is a bit bad. And some of the colors don't seem to be working. And this game 
 need more faces, clothing, hair etc. In other words more of everything. 
  And in every mmorpg I have been playing people ask about this, so how can you miss that? It's not 
 fun being a clone.
  
  * How the character move: By the look of my guy when he runs, I think he needs to visit a toilet 
 or he is ***. I dunno, something wrong with him.
  
  * Character cloths: Hair stick out of the hat, shirt stick out here and there. It just look ugly. 
 Bad, bad, bad.
  
  * Character can't swim! Hello! Whats up with that? Pirate game with nice looking water and I can't 
 swim. Jesus... even in Anarchy Online you can swim. And thats umm 5 or 6 years old mmorpg. I keep 
 trying to run down to the water but there is a wall in my way... thats just S T U P I D.
  
  * Character can't jump! Hello again! Ok why can't he jump? I don't know what to say... see my words 
 about swim and you will know what I think about this.
  
  * Character can't sit down! Wtf!
  
  * Emotes: Sure the list is long, but one /dance. Where 
 is the fun with that? Again most mmorpg you have 5 or 6 or even the option to make your own dance. 
 And people use that emote a lot. Just look at all the player made videos that the internet is full 
 of. And you know what, player made videos are most of the time good for the game. But hey, maybe 
 we can do some fun with our ships? Hmmm.
  
  * Avatar combat: I don't know what to say... it's just too stupid and ugly. NPC's jumps around 
 like chickens without heads and they all scream like Pirates even if they are not. Sad to say it, 
 but it sucks. Plus after Vitory they cheer like in some silly game for kids...
  
  * Ship combat: Stupid wind.. so slow. Sometimes my ship don't even move.
  
  * Player towns: 
 Just found out today that they copy towns. Just add some other NPC's and change the time. All I 
 can say is LOL. Why? Why? Why? And why are they so damn small? And where are all the ships? Enter 
 a town is like walking around in a tunnel.
  
  * NPC's: God I hate them. They do same thing over and over and over again. Just stupid. Salute, 
 salute, salute, salute, salute, salue... or clean, clean, clean, clean, clean... retards!
  
  * World map: 5 years working on this game and in the end it have a small little world with 
 80 towns (most of them cloned ones too) .
  
  * Can't explore the world. I can't stop and go into the jungle. Arr arr classic Pirate treasure 
 hunt... nope not in this game....
  
  * Can't fight inside Pubs, can't attack guards. Can't drink beer. Wow what a Pirate game...
  
 
  * Can't do fishing in a Pirate game...
  
  * No day to night cycle...
  
  * Female guards? Huh? Nothing against females here, but something is not right here. I have never 
 seen a female soldier from that time. Never.
  
  * And avatar "world" is a bit too silly. I don't know, it feels like they are trying to be funny 
 like Blizzard.. it just don't work. Not for me.
  
  * PvP system also need some more love.
  
  * Can't move the windows or bars.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingBobCat
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 22, 2008 6:32 am PT
Review:  I won't go into great detail about the game mechanics, all that is pretty well covered in other 
 player reviews here. What I will say is that this is a decent game. You get a certain degree of 
 satisfaction when you defeat a tough ship (with very little armor left on your own ship) and sail 
 away for your prize. And actually seeing how huge the maps are and how unbelievably cool it is 
 to see all the ships sailing around the open sea as you pull away from your town is freaking unbelievable! 
 I've played most Pirate/Caribbean based PC games that have come out and would compare this (in 
 content) to the best of them all: Sid Meier's Pirates! Though admittedly, there is a lot of room 
 for improvement (i. e. land based combat) and this game is a LONG way from Pirates! polish-wise.
 
  
  Unfortunately, not a lot of improvements have been made over the last 6 months and the game has 
 gotten very stale. One of the biggest reasons is that there are very few players and this game 
 was never embraced by enough people (because, honestly, it left a lot to be desired at launch) . 
 If the server you are playing on doesn't have enough people on it, the player-based economy (which 
 is confusing to begin with) doesn't work. And there are only 2 or 3 servers that have a decent 
 population on them. And on those servers, the vast majority of the players are British (as opposed 
 to French, Spanish, or Pirate) , so the balance is way off. 
  
  I'm disappointed to say that I don't think this game will last. I was very excited when it first 
 came out, but due to the above reasons, I have given up on it. I hope I'm wrong and they make some 
 major changes, but I think their chance at subscribership may have passed. I would've loved to 
 see a workable game like this, done right and prospering. But I just don't see it at this point 
 ... at least not with this game. : ( 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Marxxus
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 23, 2008 11:11 pm PT
Review:  The PVE game is just a preparedness factor to get you to 50 to PVP. Just so you know. I believed 
 there might be some endgame PVE when I entered open beta, but I found out there is none, but I 
 prevailed anyway with high hopes.
  
  The PVP ship battle is that of whoever has the better ship/class combo wins. If you are not in 
 a guild (society as they call it) and you try to help with PVP be prepared to get ganked hard. 
 When your ship reaches ZERO durability (1 durability = 1 death and ships have a max of 3-4 durability) 
 it is gone forever and you are now playing with a severely inferior ship until you can raise enough 
 money to buy another and start over again.
  
  As far as PVP goes, it needs alot of work. IF the other party is a "boarding" type class Privateer 
 or Pirate, they will board and then run in circles to exploit the fact you cannot hit them until 
 their crew kills you. It is the worse PVP experience I have ever witnessed. It's too bad I did 
 not witness this "PVP without player interaction" before I bought the game. I wasted $50.
  
  Again, I loved the game until the core of it was to out-exploit the other player, FLS is missing 
 the point of a pirate game with PVP if the other player does not actually fight.
  
  Exploits take the fun out of a game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tetrasoft
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 23, 2008 8:31 pm PT
Review:  Coming from a long line of sail games the bar was set pretty high in my eyes. I've played almost 
 every game ever set during the period this game falls under. From naval simulations to the entire 
 Pirates title I've played them all. So it was with a light heart I took interest in this game several 
 years ago. I followed its progression and made the beta test pretty early on. I've spent countless 
 hours playing and I can say that in ship to ship battles or battles at sea this game cant be beat. 
 Simply put the best sea battles I've ever seen. If you are a big fan of the EVE type game then 
 the burning sea is for you. With EvE I felt as though I was playing a screen saver at times... 
 the wind and sea help to add depth to this game. If you like crafting this game has one of the 
 best crafting systems you will find. No one person can dominate the crafting market... as they 
 are so many paths to get down you really have to pick your battles in crafting too. The nation 
 vs nation adds another fun point that even those that do not like pvp can enjoy the battle when 
 they so wish by helping their nation win ports. All in all if you love the age of sail give this 
 game a try. The ship combat has been ready.... the addition of avatar combat back in summer of 
 07 is lacking a bit at times but still you have a avatar that can actually go ashore.... one of 
 the most annoying things in EVE was not having an actually avatar... so Cudos to Burning sea for 
 coming up with a smashing good ship combat system and fleshing the game out with avatar combat 
 as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: racinmason101
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 23, 2008 1:52 pm PT
Review:  OK so far I think the game is very cool. Character creation is nice I like all the customizations 
 you can do to your character. I haven't got real far in the game but what I have played I like. 
 I hear alot about load times being too long? Maybe they should upgrade there rig because I am playing 
 on an old rig with a Pentium d 930 w/ 2gb ram and a geforce 8600gts my load times are 3-5 seconds 
 if that. I'm really interested in this player built economy and transporting goods I think it is 
 a great idea I just hope it works out. I am going to give the game an 8 out of 10 for now. It does 
 have minor glitches but nothing that can't be worked out. Its a nice change from WoW! All this 
 running around fighting orcs and goblins has gotten real old for me so if anyone is interested 
 in a change of pace try this game out I think you'll like it!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Loganatf2001
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 23, 2008 8:50 am PT
Review:  It does a great job with the ship to ship combat. I love being able to take my ship out and blast 
 away different ports and ships as I see fit. Its not just a battle of who can cast the right spells 
 quicker as it is in some MMORPGs. You have to know how to maneuver your ship to get the right arcs 
 of your cannons and then get ready to position yourself again for your next shot. You have the 
 feeling of wanting more though from the hand to hand fighting. Also there are constant load times 
 every time you go anywhere. If you get on or off your ship, in or out of a building you have 30 
 seconds to kill suddenly. Also during captain creation I kept getting booted from servers for timeout 
 delays after about 5 min or so. I know that's a long time but you need it when deciding on how 
 you want your captain to look. When it's all said and done it comes down to the bad waiting times 
 vs. the amazing naval combat. I personlly will be putting some hours in to see if it's a price 
 I'm willing to pay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Servcrow3
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 23, 2008 5:41 am PT
Review:  This is the first time I've written a review for a game, but I find myself getting more hooked 
 by the hour and was compelled to share my thoughts.
  
  Graphics are very very pretty indeed but scaleable enough for those without an overclocked GeForce 
 8800 GTX to appreciate as well. Ship to ship battles can look amazing and character models for 
 "on land" all look very fluid and well designed. No it's not constant eye-candy but it IS very 
 well realized.
  
  Gameplay: Let me warn away the twitch gamers... this isn't for you. Sea battles are more methodical 
 and strategically based. That doesn't mean they aren't exciting and intense at times because the 
 few battles I have been involved with have been both. Keep in mind however if you want a more "arcade" 
 feel to your ship battles this may not be for you. You must THINK before you maneuver your ship 
 alongside that merchant and let the cannons blaze! Your character also gets to do some more traditionally 
 flavored combat and it works much the same as other MMO's you may have played. Combat is made interesting 
 by choice of fighting style ("Dirty", Fencing, or Fluorentine swordfighting) Each has a large number 
 of skills to improve your abilities and it's pretty intuitive. All in all so far very satisfying 
 and I haven't even touched on the PvP yet!
  
  Economy: Holy crap this thing is DEEP!! There is so much to be doner I can't possibly do it justice 
 here. Everything in the game except your starting equipment and quest items are PLAYER MADE. Not 
 only that but you don't have to grind away at some critter to get a few items to make a piece of 
 junk that nobody wants just to raise your skill by one slow point at a time. Here you build the 
 structures you need to get the item and hire the local labor to build it or buy it through the 
 auction house. No skill grinding EVER!!
  
  This review is only a tip of the iceberg because this is a very deep MMO. It takes a bit of time 
 to get into but if you're tired of endless raids to get one measley pair of boots so you can raid 
 and grind some more and if you have ever wanted to be a pirate... or to hunt them down and sink 
 the scurvy dogs then you may want to give Pirates Of The Burning Sea a try! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xtreme2571
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 23, 2008 5:14 am PT
Review:  Just to clear up some issues that this board seems to have.
  How many years now has the MMO community been stuck with 2 different MMO systems?
  
  How many 
 countless threads have there been about EQ clones, Wow Clones, and can't we go back to the UO days?
 
  
  Well this game has finally done a few things that may move the market.
  
  1. Character Custimization does not include grinding loot so you can look like everyone else. Actually 
 quite the opposite. Clothes and other items are up for sale from real players which leads to.
 
  
  2. A player run economy, everything is craftable and is meant to be made by the players. (havn't 
 we all wanted this from the start?)
  
  3. Risk with reward, you know how many times you can die in those other MMO's. Who cares, you lose 
 a little xp or maybe one random item, but nothing is ever too severely out of reach. You can lose 
 a ship pretty easily in this game and be a out a lot of work. Eve is decent, and I know insurance 
 barely covers the ship cost, but thats why I loved Eve anyway.
  
  4. PVP - yep it's in here, there is even huge areas that you don't even need to turn a flag on 
 in to get some PVP action.
  
  5. Ship based combat - Absolutely the most realistic ship to ship based combat I've seen, everything 
 from keeping in range to staying on the other side of two ships so you can only take direct fire 
 from one. Fast ships racing in to chain shot your sales in hopes to slow you down for an easier 
 kill.
  
  6. Hand to hand combat. Its there too, granted it's not completely fleshed out to the extent of 
 other games, but the ability to pick from real world fighting styles and to get skill combinations 
 that don't involve AOE, DOT, Tank, Kite, is just a breath of fresh air.
  
  7. Group based ship and hand to hand combat, I know it should go without saying, but the group 
 based combat even allows you to control NPC's actions is a really neat feature that hasn't been 
 implemented in many games.
  
  8. Crafting, everything is made by players, the system is deeper than first glance reveals, it's 
 very rewarding and time based, so players don't have to be playing nonstop grinding material to 
 make a axe of deathshock +400 (chance on crit) lob head off.
  
  9. Fast, but not sandwich making travel time. Every you travel, you need to be on the lookout. 
 And yet you still have to plot the best course due to wind constraints and other factors (red areas)
 
  
  10. Community community community - With the exception of Hero's Journey, I have never seen this 
 kind of player and dev interaction. Most games get too big for their own good and stop listening 
 to players and start revamping just because they can. also societies bring co-operation to the 
 forefront and will play a huge roll in your success or failure.
  
  11. Looting system is extremely nice, You can not stop till you blast a ship to pieces, or you 
 can settle for half of whats in a hold and let them off the hook. Havn't many been asking for a 
 better looting system for years?
  To be honest, this game may not have the depth of say UO, but UO didn't have the depth it has now 
 at release either.
  
  This game is definitely not as bad as most people make it sound here.
  
  Give it shot
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sparkeh
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 22, 2008 9:46 pm PT
Review:  This game is pretty decent for what it's purpose is. It is a game that throws you into the Caribbean 
 in the 1720's where you choose allegiance between Pirate, French, Spanish or British. Once choosing 
 your nation you then go on to choose a class. There are Privateers, Free Traders and Naval Officers 
 for France, Spain and Britain and then Pirates get... Pirates.
  
  OK so you have chosen your nation and class. Now you get to customize your avatar. There are plenty 
 of options here to make a nice avatar although I personally believe more could of been added. Once 
 you are done here and have chosen a name (if you can't think of a name they have a random name 
 generator which is pretty handy and I think all MMO's should have this feature) you are thrown 
 into a tutorial. You do the tutorial which is easy enough and then get another tutorial. After 
 that one you are then set to sail and do whatever you wish. Now the game itself is great for about 
 the first 20 or so hours. After that it gets a bit repetitive. The missions are all the same regardless 
 of what nation or class you choose (thats right, they expect you traders out there to fight villains 
 on the high seas too!) and the game generally runs in the same direction for everybody. During 
 my experience (open beta and pre-boarding) I managed to play as a Pirate and British (Free Trader, 
 Privateer AND Naval Officer) . They all offer unique abilities or variations of each others which 
 allow you to do some funky stuff in battle. Such abilities as a repair can save your hide in the 
 heat and others will increase your speed or even damage dealt.
  
  The main problem I found with this game is that again after a while it gets all a bit too repetitive. 
 All the missions act alike in the way that you have to go out kill a ship come back, go out kill 
 a ship and come back etc. There are of course different styles of missions but they in themselves 
 are the same again. There are about 5 different types of missions you will receive. After hitting 
 level 20 you would have gotten your fill on them already. As it stands the ship combat is undoubtedly 
 its strongest point. In PvP it is really fun and yet can be very unfair at the same time. There 
 were plenty of 'zerging' in the open beta and pre-board so don't believe anyone if they say there 
 wasn't. The melee combat is quite unique and is in general quite enjoyable. A lot of people disagree 
 here but I thought it was refreshing and fun although again easy to take advantage of and 'zerg'.
 
  
  Overall the game feels pretty much like a 'Sid Meier's: Pirates!' remake put into MMO form. The 
 only difference being 'Sid Meier's: Pirates!' has a few more things to do whilst in game. The economy 
 system is really good and one of the best ive seen in an MMO so it also has that to talk about...
 
  
  I found this game generally fun for the first few hours but unless you are a goldfish you will 
 get bored. It is a decent game but definitely not worth a monthly subscription... Perhaps in time 
 to come it will offer something that is more deserving of a subscription but until then my wallet 
 is staying in my pocket for this one... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: handsmell
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 22, 2008 11:49 am PT
Review:  This game is just plain fun. If you are sick of Orcs and Elves then this is for you. The ship battles 
 are just plain fun. The economy is cool. The controls are great. It runs great on my 2 year old 
 PC, havn't had any problems yet. Probably one of the most polished MMO's on release. It has PVP, 
 PVE and major port battles. What more could you ask for. There is no dedicated PVP area because 
 it can change depending on stabilty in certain ports. That is cool. Everthing for the most part 
 is created by players, which is cool. The more PVP and War the better the economy will be for me 
 since I will be making ammo. :P
  
  The sound is fantastic and for history buffs the ships are accurate for 1720. Unlike other MMO's 
 you can actually impact the world. If you help contribute to taking over a port, that effects everyone. 
 That port may supply a specific resourse that country may need to contribute to the war effort. 
 That's awesome! 
  
  This is the best game I have ever played and have been waiting for something like this since Pirates 
 on my Commordor 64.
  
  If you are any kind of gamer at all, just buy the game, it's fun you won't regret it. See you in 
 game! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
