-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Pirate Hunter
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/piratehunter/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov  7, 2003
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.1
Critic Score: 7.0, 8 Review (s)
User Score: 7.4, 129 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Encore Software, Inc.
Developer: Ascaron Ent. GmbH
Genre: Historic Action Adventure
Date:     Oct 17, 2003
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The addition of linear scenarios doesn't add any depth or detail, but what Pirate Hunter does well 
 is provide a healthy portion of ship combat. 

  Popular games commonly inspire similar efforts -- sometimes even years later -- and Port Royale, Ascaron's 
 recent game of trading and buccaneering, paid homage to Sid Meier's classic Pirates! But the developer 
 has taken the imitation a step further with Pirate Hunter by removing the complicated strategy 
 elements. The new game reworks the satisfyingly open-ended Port Royale with a tighter focus on 
 combat. Commanding a single ship, you'll encounter infamous pirates, persistent pirate hunters, 
 and towns bristling with cannons. The direct single-ship controls feel much more like Pirates!, 
 and the new mechanics create some engaging battles. However, the new linear goal structure limits 
 and oversimplifies Pirate Hunter's gameplay in a way that removes the free-ranging charm.  

          Hunting pirates can come down to outmaneuvering superior numbers and bigger ships.   
   

  Ascaron's games haven't received wide distribution in the US, so it's no surprise if you didn't 
 hear of Port Royale's limited release earlier this year. Released by a new publisher, Pirate Hunter 
 takes the earlier game and makes a handful of changes, mostly to eliminate the elaborate trading 
 and building elements. Instead of having free reign over your choice of time period, difficulty 
 level, and national allegiance, the new game locks the settings in to create a series of long chapters. 
 The first scenario starts you off playing with Spain on the easiest setting and includes a series 
 of tutorial elements that will walk you through navigation, sea battles, and docking at towns to 
 get supplies and missions. The goals for the scenarios are clearly marked to one side of the screen. 
 For example, you might see: Capture and annex a certain number of towns in a ten-year period. Pirate 
 Hunter's world is plenty dynamic, and handing towns from one nation to another lets you make a 
 major mark on the Caribbean.  

  As an aspiring buccaneer, closely aligned with one of four nations -- England, France, Holland, or 
 Spain -- you seek fame and fortune by taking on missions, mostly with military objectives, from the 
 governors located in major towns. The missions can start out as innocuous exploration or reconnaissance 
 assignments, but, as you gain battle experience, aggressive convoy hunting, looting, and town assault 
 goals start coming your way. While many missions have time limits, there's no penalty for failing 
 or for not accepting an assignment, so you're free to wander the world.  

  Sailing around the Caribbean is simply a matter of right clicking in a direction, and your speed 
 is determined by both the types of ships in your convoy and wind direction (indicated by fluffy 
 clouds passing overhead) . It's worth paying attention where you're going, since you can encounter 
 hostile pirates or opposing buccaneers quite suddenly. Although you'll frequently speed things 
 up to cross large distances, the standard game speed does give you time to identify a ship's flag 
 and the biggest ship in a convoy. While making progress through a scenario is tied to one nation's 
 missions, otherwise your path is open. So it's up to you to find your way by hunting pirates to 
 earn bounties, finding larger ships you might capture to upgrade your convoy, or picking on another 
 nation's trading ships.  

  As you'd expect from the title, Pirate Hunter is all about battles between wind-powered ships. 
 You start off with a rather small but maneuverable ship and can prey on ships of similar size until 
 you manage to capture the larger and much more powerful ship types, like frigates and galleons. 
 Even if you have a few captured ships in your convoy, you can never control more than one in a 
 sea battle. The positive consequence of the single-ship focus is that control of every shot and 
 every turn is direct and simple. The action can require fast reflexes, and it is possible to defeat 
 a more numerous and powerful enemy by making smart use of three different ammo types: one that 
 strikes at a hull's hit points, one that damages the sails to slow a ship down, and one that wipes 
 out crew in large numbers. The enemy AI often isn't very challenging at all -- especially at the 
 low difficulty setting the first scenario is locked at -- but the enemy does make use of the three 
 ammo types and its superior numbers to sink you from time to time. Although the combat has its 
 challenges, there isn't enough variety to keep the constant succession of battles from becoming 
 repetitive. Once you've earned plenty of money, experience, and ships, the temptation is to flee 
 from the ordinary (nearly random) encounters with pirates to focus on national goals and hunting 
 named, infamous pirates, which provides more challenge and reward.  

          A weary buccaneer can put into port for repairs and R&amp; R, but watch out for an unfriendly 
 warning shot.     

  As long as your reputation with a nation hasn't gotten to the point where its towns and ships shoot 
 on sight, you're free to put in at any town. It's actually a good idea to do so between large battles, 
 since it's the only place to save, repair your ships, and recruit crew to replace the frequent 
 casualties. As in Ascaron's other naval games, towns are part of a dynamic economy, and prices 
 for goods go up and down according to the laws of supply and demand. Here, though, there's little 
 incentive to engage in trading other than to sell looted goods and buy up certain foodstuff to 
 keep up crew morale and stave off a mutiny. The fact that -- in contrast to Port Royale or the Patrician 
 games -- you're limited to just one convoy means that even if you tried, you could never earn as 
 much money trading as you could earn hunting pirates. However, some missions cleverly turn the 
 economic model on its head and have you try to ruin the fortunes of specific towns by sinking or 
 capturing any ships that try to enter until the hapless locals end up in a recession.  

  As if to remind you of the lush Caribbean setting, sailing into port rewards you with a nice prerendered 
 look at what a 17th century port town might look like. There are just a handful of things to do 
 in town, which are highlighted as you move the mouse over buildings on the partially animated background. 
 The prerendered style is new to Ascaron's games and is a welcome change from the game's otherwise 
 locked top-down perspective. However, with only one town look per nation, there's little visual 
 variety. The graphics for the navigation and combat views also have a nice look, with plenty of 
 detail drawn into the 2D world map and some nice water effects for the 3D combat. In contrast to 
 all this visual lushness, the audio can seem a bit sparse for the lack of any voice work at all. 
 The sound effects are limited mostly to the thundering of cannons during combat, but elegant period 
 music does help set the right tone overall.  

  Pirate Hunter comes close to being a faithful remake of Sid Meier's Pirates!, but the addition 
 of linear scenarios, with locked game settings, doesn't add any depth or detail to make up for 
 cutting out the open-ended style of Port Royale. What's more central to the mythos of pirates and 
 buccaneers than being able to choose one's fate? The reward for jumping through a scenario's hoops 
 is the chance to join a high score list, then start from scratch during a later, more challenging 
 period of history. What Pirate Hunter does well is provide a healthy portion of ship combat that 
 looks good, is easy to learn, and has enough intricacies to reward skillful play. There are bountiful 
 fortunes sailing the high seas, and it's not hard to reach out and pluck them up.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (2 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: DaCoder
Rating: 8.1
Date: Sep 29, 2004 5:47 pm PT
Review:  Pirate Hunter is great for those who are trying to balance their game addictions with responsibility 
 (kids, spouse, job, school, etc.) . It's not a terribly deep game like Wing Commander Privateer 
 but it works well if you've only got 20 minutes and you want to feel like you are making progress 
 in something. A dedicated gamer could probably blow through the scenarios in a night or two.
  It has a typical plot, start as nothing and work your way up as something big by earning booty 
 and captuing ships. There doesn't seem to be an ultimate ending, but it's fun trying to knock out 
 the missions in the little time I have to devote to my games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kbrace2480
Rating: 7.7
Date: Dec 13, 2003 3:41 pm PT
Review:  Pirates is a fun, simplistic, game in which players pledge allegiance for a country and try and 
 capture so many towns in so many years. This game is addictingly fun. Unfortunetly there are very 
 few different missons. One mission you must attack a pirate cove near New Orleans and then 3 miissions 
 later you must attack another pirate cove. The game quickly becomes repetitve and its low graphics 
 and music quickly become annoying. The most you can hope for is to beat the scenario (easy to do 
 in one day) , get put on the high score list, and do it again on a harder diffuclty level. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
