-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Pirates of the Caribbean: At World's End
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/piratesofthecaribbean3/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Does a decent job of matching the look and feel of the movies.
 Minigames are a nice bonus.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Basic combat is dreadfully boring.
 Mission objectives are uninteresting.
 All the playable characters play the same way.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: May 25, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.4
Critic Score: 5.9, 6 Review (s)
User Score: 5.8, 331 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Disney Interactive Studios
Developer: Eurocom Ent.
Genre: Historic Action Adventure
Date:     May 22, 2007
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The dull, repetitive combat and uninspired mission structure prevent At World's End from being much 
 fun. 

  It's almost hard to believe in this day and age of movie and game tie-ins, but other than a couple 
 of handheld games, the last  Pirates of the Caribbean  movie didn't have a companion game on consoles. 
 Disney Interactive Studios is making up for lost time with Pirates of the Caribbean: At World's 
 End, which features plotlines from both the second and third  Pirates  movies. While the game does 
 a solid job of capturing the look and humor of the movies, it fails to emulate the films' action 
 sequences very well. The combat is extremely simple, and you'll grow tired of mashing on the attack 
 button well before you reach the end of the game.  

          Fighting is so easy you can do it with your eyes closed.     

  The first half of the 
 game follows the events of  Dead Man's Chest , specifically Captain Jack Sparrow's attempt to recover 
 the heart of Davy Jones to avoid becoming a member of his crew, and it culminates with Jack's encounter 
 with the Kraken. The second portion of the game sees Sparrow and his not-so-merry band of misfits 
 joining together to take on Lord Beckett and retrieve the heart of Davy Jones once and for all. 
 Even if you've seen the second film, the story is quite difficult to follow since it's told by 
 way of short, disjointed cutscenes. You'll recognize several scenarios and locations from the movies, 
 but there are many things you'll do that aren't in the movies.  

  Most of your time in At World's End is spent as Jack Sparrow, though you'll also get to play as 
 Elizabeth, Will, and a few other characters along the way. You'll sword fight your way from Tortuga 
 to Singapore, which may sound exciting, but it's really not. You have both light and heavy attacks, 
 as well as a close attack, and you can perform combos by stringing the attacks together. You have 
 the same attacks on the Wii, but they're performed by waving the Wii Remote up and down or left 
 and right. Note to developers: The Wii Remote doesn't make a good sword -- it's imprecise, tiring, 
 and, well, kind of dumb. Enemies literally appear out of thin air and put up little resistance 
 as you pound the attack buttons or wave your arms like a madman. You earn new combos as you progress, 
 but they don't look much (if any) different than the other combos; they're no more effective, and 
 because the game does a poor job of registering movement, they're nearly impossible to pull off 
 on the Wii. There's also a block button, but it's of little use because generally most of your 
 damage will come from enemies who attack you from behind when you're dealing with a foe in front 
 of you. If you turn and confront the person stabbing you in the back, you'll end up getting plunked 
 by the guy you were originally dealing with. There are a handful of weapons, such as guns, grenades, 
 and knives, which are scattered throughout for you to use. Unfortunately, they're not very useful. 
 The grenades work OK, but guns and knives are particularly difficult to aim. If you mix up your 
 attacks, you can raise your notoriety. The game makes a big deal about notoriety, but it's utterly 
 pointless.  

  A basic level is set up with a cutscene, and then you're given your objective. From there, you'll 
 run around, fighting seemingly endless hordes of enemies who appear from out of the ground or just 
 simply appear. You'll be trapped in an area by an invisible wall until you defeat the enemies. 
 Once you beat them, you'll travel a short distance and then start the whole process over again. 
 Sometimes there are brief scenarios where you must quickly press the button or direction that appears 
 onscreen. They're not much fun, and you're too focused on the corner of the screen waiting for 
 an icon to appear to actually watch the cool action sequence that's taking place, but at least 
 it's something different than swinging your sword. These are much harder on the PC because you'll 
 see a sword icon and have to remember not only what action it represents, but also what button 
 you've mapped that action to.  

  The levels are strictly linear, though it's easy to get lost because the game often does a poor 
 job of explaining your objectives. There are also occasions where the icon for context-sensitive 
 areas doesn't appear, even if you're standing where you should be. An arrow will sometimes appear 
 below your character to help point you in the right direction, but it almost seems random as to 
 when it appears. You have no control over the camera, which means you'll often get turned around -- it 
 cuts from one angle to the next with no warning (this makes the stealth sections extra frustrating) . 
 None of your objectives are particularly interesting, a fact made worse by the copious amount of 
 backtracking you'll be doing. You'll occasionally get to play some minigames such as Pirate Dice 
 and Poker. These are a strictly optional, but it's a nice way to break up some of the monotony 
 of combat. The PSP version even supports ad hoc play and game sharing, as well as boasting Hearts 
 as a third minigame. On the PlayStation 2, PC, and Wii, competitive multiplayer lets you take on 
 swarms of enemies in timed challenges, and you can even duel against a friend. Their inclusion 
 is a nice gesture, but the results are underwhelming.  

  Of the PC, PSP, PS2, and Wii versions, At World's End looks best on the PC, though that's not saying 
 a whole lot. The frame rate is generally steady on all versions, and there are some nice-looking 
 attack animations, but there's very little else to get excited about. None of the versions have 
 very good texture work, though the PSP's are about what you'd expect from the system and the PC's 
 are at a higher resolution. The story is told via cutscenes that use the in-game engine, and while 
 the characters do resemble their movie counterparts, they look quite poor -- especially on the PSP, 
 where their mouths don't move. The Wii version supports widescreen (as do all the other versions) 
 and progressive scan, but it fails to impress in any way and looks exactly the same as the PlayStation 
 2 version.  

          Character resemblances are there, but the models are junk.     

  The game's audio is solid, albeit unspectacular. You won't be hearing Johnny Depp, Keira Knightley, 
 or Orlando Bloom, but the soundalikes do an admirable job of filling their shoes. It's just too 
 bad there isn't more dialogue to flesh out the story. The game uses the movies' soundtracks to 
 punctuate the action, fading in and out depending on the situation. It's not the best score you've 
 ever heard, but it fits the game well. The sound effects are good, but there's not enough variety 
 to them. Granted, there's only so much that can be done with clanging swords, but there could have 
 been more variety to the catchphrases that your foes yell when they attack.  

  When it's all said and done, At World's End is a very by-the-book approach to a movie-based game. 
 It has, and lets you play as, all the characters you'd want to play; it doesn't deviate from the 
 movies' plots too much; and it takes you to many of the locations you see in the films. While those 
 are good things, the game really would have benefited by taking some risks. The biggest problem 
 is that you're playing as a cool character in an exotic location, but you're not doing anything 
 interesting, just running around picking up items and hitting the attack button endlessly. Even 
 if you're a huge fan of the  Pirates  trilogy, you'll probably want to pass on At World's End, 
 especially the Wii version due to its terrible control scheme.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (23 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Drale08
Rating: 4
Date: Nov 3, 2008 8:03 am PT
Review:  Most people would think that a game based on the Pirates of the Caribbean movies would be made 
 to the highest quality since it was mainly banking on people's love of the films. Sadly this could 
 not be farther from the truth.
  
  I've played both the PC and PS2 versions of this game and while the PS2 version is broken, the 
 PC version is terribly broken. The controls for the PC are terrible and there is hardly any hope 
 until you memorize the key map in the manual. The in game control instructions simply show a miniature 
 picture of the action you will be doing and give no hint as to the corresponding key.
  
  There are also small cutaways called "Jackanisms" that require you to hit the action key as it 
 appears on the screen. You will get one fairly early on in the game and since you most likely did 
 not study the manual you will fail miserably unless you are a game god.
  
  This game tends to be repetitive and the missions seem to overlap as you play. I found myself play 
 the Blackjack mini game more than the story. And on top of that the graphics are nothing to behold.
 
  
  The side missions seem to make little sense and are mostly just annoying. For example, there is 
 a side mission where you play Captain Jack Sparrow and simply go around the town and get slapped 
 by certain women. It may be funny to see him get slapped, but only the first few times. Then you 
 ask yourself if they even put any effort into this. 
  
  But since I hear that most game reviews should have some positive point in them I guess all I can 
 say about this game is; at least you get to play something that is sort of based on the movie. 
 Sort of. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: y07hci0107
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 15, 2008 3:36 am PT
Review:  Being a big pirates fan, I can concede that the graphics are excellent and the game does an excellent 
 job of re-making the movies. However, the gameplay was a chore, as the "grab" button didn't seem 
 to work. Also, when fighting large hordes of enemies, its impossible to not take damage (not counting 
 the fact that Jack doesn't have an area attack) . All in all, this game's excellent graphics are 
 played down by its awful gameplay, which gives it an average score at best. Oh yeah, duels were 
 so linear. The whole dueling system boils down to key-mashing and luck. What's more, the Jackanism 
 thingy was extremely odd....... nevermind. Anyway, I'm sure Disney can do a much better job than 
 this. For example, more moves should be added, and the dueling systems should undergo a mass change. 
 Only radical pirates fans should buy this, not bored people looking for something to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WalkingP
Rating: 5.5
Date: Feb 12, 2008 5:26 pm PT
Review:  Pirates of the Caribbean, At Worlds End, has some really nice graphics. The opening game cut scene 
 has you feeling like you're watching the movie. A lot of attention was paid to detail in both the 
 environments and the characters. This game has really nice graphics; the reason I keep repeating 
 this is because that's about all that impressed me.
  
  The actual storyline wasn't that good and just seemed to jump from area to area without much rhyme 
 or reason. You're able to control different characters that all played exactly the same as all 
 the others, about the only difference was their appearance. The game did play smoothly and without 
 flaw which could be considered a plus if wasn't for the dull and repetitive game play. There are 
 some mini games that can be played but they are as dull as the game itself. About the most fun 
 that I personally had was having Captain Jack get slapped by all the maidens at the different ports. 
 This game is just another one those poorly thought out movie rights games to try and make some 
 extra money off the franchise's name. I will say this though, the game sure had nice graphics. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_unknown11
Rating: 1
Date: Jan 17, 2008 6:25 pm PT
Review:  Not a very great game. What do you expect from a movie game? Most movie games have bad graphics, 
 repetitive battle system, bad save system, or any combination of them. This one happened to have 
 every one of them that I mentioned before. Insanely easy and repetitive. I haven't even finished 
 the game because I get so bored. When you battle you have to stay in one area and you get attacked 
 by three people. It gets so annoying because you'll be attacking someone then you will get attacked 
 and you'll end up switching who you attacking. In order to save you have to finish a level and 
 the levels can take a long time to do. The game itself doesn't even follow the movie itself. It 
 changes many scenes that when you see the movie it seems different. Don't even thinking about getting 
 this game. It is a huge waste of money and you'll want all the time you spent playing this game 
 back. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sNaKeyy
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 18, 2007 1:08 pm PT
Review:  At World's End wouldn't sell even a copy if it not had the Pirates of the Caribbean trilogy behind. 
 It's a weak action with poor and terrible textures, made like in 2002 or 2003. The cutscenes made 
 with the game engine are the worst i ever seen, i can see how they are designed and the edges. 
 No video options for AA or AF, i like that has support for wide-screen monitors and 5.1 surround.
 
  The sound is poor, some fx`s on swords, voice acting also poorly, no actors, just some clones 
 that are doing a decent job. I suggest you guyz just don-t buy this FAIR game. It doesn`t deserve 
 20$ (thats the price right now) . I would better buy a wristlet with a PoTC picture on it if i`m 
 a fan instead of this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trafalet
Rating: 3.5
Date: Sep 15, 2007 1:05 pm PT
Review:  Don't even bother to buy this game; it's just a big waste of time and money! Eventually if you don't 
 believe me you can borrow the game from a friend (poor guy!) and see for yourself. Not even my 8 
 old brother don't play this crap. The camera is totally blocked and the controls... console-like. 
 It took me 15 minutes to find the action buttons (z, x and c) , which means I lost several times 
 simply because I wasn't able to defend myself. The A. I. is another piece of crap. The enemies are 
 as dumb as they look. All they do is to run towards you and ... (what else?!) ... attack you. The 
 graphics are awful. What else should I say? Please for the sake of your pockets DON'T BUY THIS GAME!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: billyegg
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 28, 2007 4:27 pm PT
Review:  Pirates of the Caribbean: At World's End was a somewhat valiant attempt at crossing the line between 
 the seafaring world of Gore Verbinski's Pirates trilogy and our world of video gaming. It failed 
 miserably, but not AS miserably as it possibly could have. They have been worse movie adaptations 
 (any other Disney/Pixar/Dreamworks game, for instance) . Their first mistake was making it a platformer. 
 Gamers have moved on from that phase. Unless it is absolutely amazing, most of us really don't 
 want to play a platformer (except when we're feeling nostalgic) . Here's what keeps me playing it: 
 Characters. Almost every character you see can be unlocked to play as. A handful are unlocked by 
 simply beating levels; some are unlocked by beating sub-missions in levels, and most are unlocked 
 by beating Challenge missions for each level (Combat challenge, combo challenge, and loot challenge) . 
 While the challenges are simple to understand, they get progressively harder, until they are nearly 
 impossible for your clunky character to fight. I'm a stickler for characters. The more characters 
 I can play as, the happier I am. Dynasty Warriors 5 and Space Channel 5 were both good examples 
 of this philosophy. I always said that if I could just get that darned suit of Snowtrooper armor, 
 I would have played SW: Galaxies till the day I died. So unless you really like being able to play 
 as a hideously deformed crewmember of the Flying Dutchman- in Port Royal, you should probably stay 
 away. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lociefer
Rating: 2.3
Date: Aug 1, 2007 7:07 am PT
Review:  well , frankly i dont like movie related games , they always turn out to be total let downs , so 
 i stay away from em , BUT , coz i liked the movie i decided to give this one a go,, and boy was 
 i wrong.
  
  My first impression of the game was WTF IS THIS .anyways , let us start the evaluation..
  
 
  Graphics: a big WTF ,, its just like prince of persia 3D , and maybe worse
  Gamplay: LAAAAAAMEEE , u just press have to press X X X X ,, thts it
  Sound: well this one was 
 OK ,, just OK , not giving it any big credit.
  
  Bottom line is ,,, STAY AWAY FROM THIS GAME , do yourself a BIIIG favour and just stay away from 
 it...... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: godofwarfan2929
Rating: 4.6
Date: Jun 27, 2007 9:04 pm PT
Review:  Pirates Of The Carribean : At Worlds End IS Not Good.
  The Difficulty Is Very Easy The A. I Is Dumb And They Dont Do Much Except Fight
  I Spent 10 Hours 
 Playing This Game Which Was A Waste Of Time, I Guess.
  The Gameplay Sucks It Is Completely Repetitive Nothing Fun About It.
  The Graphics Are Superb 
 Is That The Only Thing You've Conquered?
  The soundtrack even gets dull holy crap can you do one single thing right
  The Value Is Not Worth 
 IT Definitely Not.
  All Together Pirates Games Should End.
  Because There Is Nothing Fun About It. There Is Not One Thing Fun In This Game.
  The Humor Is 
 Dry But A Little Funny.
  Disney Pull Up Your Pants And Start Making Some Breath-Taking Games! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AnxiousTube
Rating: 1.7
Date: Jun 20, 2007 8:51 am PT
Review:  This game was absulutly horrible. The gamplay bored me to death. The fighting were just so damb 
 rediculous. I couldn't even get pass the first part without being borred. As you may know the movie 
 was also just as horrible and abscenly bad. Ohh, yah and the graphics, I've seen better graphics 
 the first mario compared to this game. So in the end this game is just horrible so, don't get, 
 or, if you want to waste your 60$ on a giant piece of pumpkin game go ahead, but I don't recommand 
 it.
  
  These views are not expressed by the actual players of this game, but in all beliefe I think they 
 are. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tanjo22
Rating: 4.8
Date: Jun 16, 2007 9:55 am PT
Review:  I was really excited for pirates of the caribbean 3 on the xbox360. It looked amazing, and i couldn't 
 wait to play it. But 4 days before the release of the movie, my xbox suffered the ring of death 
 and i had to wait nearly a month to get it back. The bastards at microsoft diddn't even send me 
 the month of xbox live they promised me... anyway, back to the game. When i downloaded the demo, 
 there were alot of tutorial screens that inturrupt the gameplay. I assumed that this level was 
 just the tutorial level that teaches me moves. I was wrong. About half of the game is filled with 
 tutorial screens that pop right up and can ruin the battle having if you need to concentrate.
 
  
  The fights aren't that great either. You mash on the A button, which allows your enemy to block 
 after about 4 hits, then he turns his back and lets you kill him. Gee, i really remember that from 
 the films, every enemy turning around and inviting jack to kill them. However, it is alot more 
 effective to just pick up your enemy with Y and throw them around. After you throw them twice they 
 die. This is alot faster than sword fighting, and can take out more enemies. It's really useful 
 when you have to fight using two other pirates because the games AI is horrible and it's tough 
 trying to keep 3 pirates alive when there is 20 enemies around you. Sometimes if you are near a 
 ledge you can throw your enemies off the ledge.
  
  There is a lack of invisible walls in places where they should be. It is really easy to accidentally 
 slip and drown in knee deep water. Water kills you (a pirate, who can swim) by the way. The game 
 is very repetitive. It's basically walk along some ledges, jump some gaps, pull some levers, and 
 kill a few waves of enemies. This series of events have been in every pirates game I've ever played. 
 Pirates of the caribbean ds, the legend of jack sparrow, at worlds end. They're all the same and 
 that's a problem. There is literally no difference between the turkish prison level or tortuga, 
 other than the way it looks. It get's boring doing the same thing over and over again, fighting 
 the same enemies and not to mention the fact that all of the boss battles are exactly the same.
 
  
  The boss battles are horrible. It's like playing the mini games in god of war, except instead of 
 pressing a button quickly you have to move the joystick at the speed of sound either up, down, 
 left or right (left or right varies depending on your enemy's position) to block the attacks. If 
 you successfully do this, (and it's hard, sometimes you will think you did it right but your enemy 
 will still attack) you have a chance to attack your enemy. Your enemy can block and attack you 
 at random times. This is annoying because sometimes as soon as you get your chance to attack, they 
 will immediatley block you and start attacking you.
  
  The game puts you in situations and areas that weren't in the movie and twists to plotline alot. 
 You will meet characters you haven't seen before and be in places your character shouldn't be in. 
 There are both coin bags and special items in each level that do absoluteley nothing, and only 
 jack sparrow can use a special move which wipes out everyone. Overall the game is horrible and 
 if you're a really hardcore pirates fan... rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blue_boyxo
Rating: 3.4
Date: Jun 12, 2007 10:48 pm PT
Review:  Bad at graphic: the engine must be long long a go
  Bad at gameplay: even this is action adventure but it is such a platform game for child
  Bad 
 at Sound: no thing special, but some boring soundtrack
  No value for any part of this game
  However the title quite good because it has the name of the movies
  I can not understand why 
 the developer can release that suck game, it make the movie less of value.
  After play this game, i dont have intention to watch the movie already
  and more things are worse 
 than that, if u want, experience by yourself... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ady_yooo
Rating: 1.3
Date: Jun 12, 2007 9:51 pm PT
Review:  its pure s h i t i cant believe they released such a poor game it's ouful the gameplay sucks the 
 graphycs it's like early 2000 i mean come on people it's 2007 check out crysis and make the game 
 at least 10 % as good as that and it will beat this piece of c r a p to hell come on i expected 
 the game so much and when i got home from the shop and played it my eyes fell out i mean come on 
 i saw a rewiew that got 10 / 10 i mean are you blind go see a eye doctor this is one of the most 
 worst games in 2007 sorry but that is the thrut 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 123dcb
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 11, 2007 6:14 pm PT
Review:  This game is pretty good actullay. The graphics arent horrible., just rember to put it on highest 
 settings. I thought the combat itself was kindave dull. There alor of characters from te movies 
 and the voice acting is great. Facial expressions could use some more work though. The game isnt 
 extremly short so you wont beat it in 1 day. The controls are pretty godd for a Pc game. Just because 
 a games graphics arent great doesnt mean the games bad. And It doesnt take forever to install the 
 game. The secondary weapons like knives pistols and bombs are a nice touch. id say give this game 
 a try 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rence931mitsu
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jun 7, 2007 11:08 pm PT
Review:  This Game ain't so bad!!;-) FUN, FUN, FUN...;-)
  
  One of the best pirrates game ever!!;_)
  
  sure, there is only but few pirrates game out there, 
 but this one sure is a lot of fun, with Captain Jack Sparrow's actions sure is fun to watch, hehe.... 
 Characters in the movie fits just right int the game. Will Turner, Elizabath Swan, Captain Barbossa 
 and tthe rest, fits in just right!! hehe....
  
  and there are challenge mode, and duelling to keep us busy fter finishing the game and just wants 
 to complete it al up.!;-)
  
  this game ain't that hard, but is sure is a good one to follow after watching the movie!;-) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dreddlock907
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 3, 2007 2:30 am PT
Review:  Review of the PC VERSION of the game:
  
  Gameplay 9/10
  One thing to say beforehand is that if you don't like the Pirates of the Caribbean movies you won't 
 like this game as it carries the humor and style of the movies heavily. I think getting into the 
 game is very easy and goes quickly, leaving you with very enjoyable and straight-forward gameplay 
 that can be compared to King Arthur or Lord of the Rings: Return of the King - action-heavy and 
 linear.
  You play along the story of POTC: Dead Man's Chest and the new blockbuster POTC: At World's End, 
 starting on the prison fortress island from the beginning of POTC 2 until the final battle in POTC 
 3, making stops on nearly every important location along the way. Each of these locations has a 
 main objective and numerous side objectives, aswell as certain pseudo-quest objects. The main objective 
 obviously lets you continue with the story and unlocks the next location, the side-objectives and 
 the pseudo-quest objects (crab amulets, ...) let you unlock treasures (extra characters for additional 
 game modes, concept art, cheats for mini games, ...) .
  Something very much in need of being noted are the minigames called Jackanisms which only occur 
 in levels where you play Jack: these are triggered automatic events at certain points in the game 
 where you will need to press the keys in time as they turn up on the screen to get through these 
 events unscathed and solve tricky situations in a This is the day you almost caught Jack Sparrow... 
 way - if you fail you will have to battle it out with a lot of enemies. Be prepared to laugh out 
 loud as these are mostly quite hilarious and could be straight out of the movies.
  The controls are fairly easy to learn with a standard attack key, a strong attack key and a combo 
 button that lets you string long combos together, aswell as the compulsory block button and extra 
 inventory use button. The inventory ranges 4 objects - knives to throw, pistols to shoot, grenades 
 to blow enemies up and chicken (whole ones!!) to eat and replenish your health. In addition to 
 the story mode there are several other game modes that will keep you busy for hours after the story 
 mode has finished: a deathmatch mode (kill a number of enemies in a certain amount of time) , combo 
 mode (get a certain combo score in a certain amount of time) , etc. These are also quite fun, especially 
 taken into consideration that you can use almost each character that turns up in the movies as 
 your player figure.
  
  Graphics 8/10 The graphics are - lets put it this way - not exactly eye candy. While most of them 
 aren't bad and the locations are done with much attention to detail you tend to see a lot of the 
 same textures. The characters look very much like their real counterparts and let you recognize 
 them immediately, however they often have awkward textures or facial movements.
  The graphics 8 comes from a rather sloppy graphics transfer from consoles - PC games in the year 
 2007 should offer a higher resolution than 1024x786 - and shadows, better lighting, etc...
  
  Sound 9/10 The sound is awesome, the original movie score booming away as you battle it out 
 with a dozen pirates on a ship while the thunder cracks and the sea roars is just great. Being 
 a huge fan of the soundtrack I found this game to finally utilize the real music from the movies 
 as the first game in the series. This adds a ton of atmosphere and will let you enjoy the game 
 far more than any other music could.
  Apart from Captain Jack Sparrow who is spoken by Johnny Depp the characters aren't spoken by the 
 real actors but by very good sound-alikes that do a great job of imitating them. One could say 
 that the sound is the best about this game, however it also has a few setbacks that should be noted, 
 but don't make the overall score worse than a 9 out of 10.
  
  Value 9/10 An enjoyful game from beginning to end, lots of baddies to beat up, dozens of combos, 
 a dozen locations, original music, near-original voice actors, nearly a hundred extras and simply 
 - BEING PART of the movies make this game earn 9 out of 10 easily. Make that an 11 out of 10 for 
 a POTC fan :D
  
  Reviewer's Tilt 10/10
  Being a huge fan of the series my opinion might not have been entirely objective however I think 
 anyone that liked the humor, the action and the story of the movies will enjoy this game. Anyone 
 who likes action games that aren't too hard on realism will also enjoy this one a lot.
  Now go swashbuckling ;-) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Daian
Rating: 5.3
Date: May 28, 2007 1:34 pm PT
Review:  The first Pirates of the Caribbean game is much better even though you don't play with the movie 
 characters.
  This one has terrible graphics that just makes you look away from the monitor, in fact the only 
 thing good about the game is the music from the trilogy. It's actually sad that the movie did not 
 get made an equally awesome game for it, but then again, few movies did.
  I really do not know what the producers had in mind when they made this krappy game, but it certainly 
 was not something good.
  I was looking forward to this game in hope that it will be something like the first ,but sadly 
 i have to admit that i would rather play that one instead. Hugu, huge upset... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: clanusa
Rating: 4.4
Date: May 24, 2007 9:01 pm PT
Review:  POTC: AWE Looked to be a good game. But thats when I was looking at the console versions. When 
 I played the PC version, I was like what the crap? The story was good and followed true to the 
 movies. The controls were confusing for a while, and then it got annoying. The combat was horrible, 
 just plain button mashing. The side-objectives don't give anything to the game and neither does 
 anything else other than the main objectives! The graphics looked pretty good, but once again, 
 that was the console versions. Play the PC version and the graphics are horrible. Seems like a 
 game made when Lord of the Rings: Return of the King was being made. Very very disappointing. The 
 sound in the game is ok. The voices for all the characters do their part in the game which is excellent, 
 the music from the movies is there, but sometimes like at the beginning of the game on the first 
 level when the pirate comes to get Jack, the voices and sound sounded bad. The rest of the way 
 it was either like that or different. The story was the only good thing about the game honestly 
 and it's the only thing saving it. There was some comedy, but not much. Disney should have just 
 left Buena Vista games alone, but I'm sure it would have ended up the same way. If you want to 
 pick this game up, don't. It's not worth it all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Oracleas
Rating: 2.4
Date: May 24, 2007 8:14 pm PT
Review:  At World`s End..
  i was waiting so long for this game.
  in th trailers it looked amazing.
  you saw the water FX, the amazing animations, the wonderful 
 graphics.
  i guess it is that way for the consoles, but for the pc version? i think that the earlier pirates 
 of t he Caribbean looked better... and it looked BAD.
  now, im not saying that graphics is all that matter, but what is this?
  Jack has no kind of fluidity 
 about him, his hair is stuck on his shirt, his face is flatter than a blackboard, what has gone 
 wrong?
  the Developers wanted to invest more on the consoles, i guess pc players are left for dead?
  
 voice acting is nice, but not great.
  Johnny Depp returns as Jack Sparrow, but with NO enthusiasm, so it takes away all of his charm.
 
  and again, Orlando Bloom`s voice was replaces by another actor, taking away his credibility.
 
  the game starts with no coherence whatsoever, with some unknown dude waking you up and getting 
 you to escape the prison . (your door is very much wide open, i wonder if it can actually be called 
 a prison)
  then you have to fight all sorts of dudes. some with English accent, some with Romanian accents? 
 where is this place?
  after a while of fighting, you get to find out where you are, and then, you see that it got nothing 
 to do with anything, as the cut scenes cut from one to another, suddenly, with no explanation in 
 between.
  if you didnt watch the movies, you wont know what the hell is going on.
  if you did watch the movies, you will be pretty disappointed (and a bit lost as well.)
  combat 
 in the game is very simple, nothing special or exciting (or fun) about the whole button mashing 
 sequence.
  the special animations of the JACKANISM sequence are very frustrating, and on the PC: Impossible.
 
  other than that, its still a bad game.
  you saw the movies and wanted some more? see the last movie.
  still not satisfied? buy a boat 
 and go sail the Caribbean, but whatever you do, stay clear of At World`s End (for the PC that is.) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Homes225
Rating: 5.2
Date: May 23, 2007 12:44 pm PT
Review:  Story: You are pretty much all the main characters from Pirates of the Caribbean. Have fun.
  
  Graphics: Look Wiish. 360 graphics are MUCH better. No graphic settings other than resolution.
 
  
  Audio: Nothing new.
  
  Missions: Kill groups of these guys. Kill Boss. Save Her. Kill. Boss. End.
  
  Controls: No 
 WASD here. Only your trusty ZXC keys!
  
  Features: Kinda cool Jackisms... Um this is made by Disney isn't it? Must complete a set number 
 of steps/movements to do special interactive scenes 
  
  A. I.: Go for the Player. Kill the player.
  
  Loading Times: Alright. Not too long, not short 
 either.
  
  Multiplayer: None.
  
  Requirements: Not fairly high. Most PCs will run it seeing as it doesn't look good.
  
  Weapons: 
 Mainly a sword but you have upgrades such as knifes, a pistol, and bombs.
  
  The Good: Gives you preview of the Pirates movie before you go see it.
  
  The Bad: Gives you 
 preview of Pirates movie before you go see it.
  
  The Ugly: Your fingers cramping after many battles with your ZXC keys....
  
  Replay Ability: 
 Low to None.
  
  The Bottom Line: Another crappy Movie Port. Don't buy unless you are a huge fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bomlo
Rating: 7.7
Date: May 23, 2007 11:51 am PT
Review:  Pirates at worlds end should be played by fans of the movie.
  
  Gameplay: The controls are good and easy to learn. Won`t make you rip of your hair, but don`t require 
 to much. It is a hack and slash game.
  
  Graphics: Not good. The graphics far less detailed than other games who is released on consoles 
 and PC together. The graphics are unfinished, and the reason is probably that it is made quickly 
 to be released with the film.
  
  Sound: Good, but not revolutionary. Voice acting is good.
  
  Value: At worlds end is a good 
 game with nice extras when you complete a level, not just boring film material, but new characters 
 for use in level replay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wubeikk
Rating: 3.5
Date: Nov 15, 2007 4:35 am PT
Review:  Remark: Review was written before gamespot admins corrected screns for the game after its premiere.
 
  
  However we must distinguish which version of this game we will be able to play. I've seen that 
 Next-Gen version, which is released for PS3 and X360 looks great. Version for Wii is only worth 
 playing on that platform. I've noticed that so far for PC was released Wii edition. So I'll review 
 only that game.
  
  When we think about PC and Next-Gen games we think of great beautiful graphics, like on PS3 or 
 X360 screens. PC edition looks awful, maximum resolution 1024x768, but with wide-screen option. 
 No advanced graphic option etc. So at very beginning game makes us feel that it won't be game with 
 nice look. In that edition it looks like games from year 2003. Graphics are disappointing. Water 
 is like one plain with some textures and they aren't even transparent. Let's take a look at main 
 characters. e. g. Jack Sparrow. I think that they cut out most of polygons from him. He looks really 
 ugly. But sometimes movement is near movie original, but only movement.
  
  Another problem controls. There is no proper conversion of controls. In JACKANISM mode, we can 
 see only icons with buttons which we should press. For few hours of playing I noticed that only 
 one jackanizm I was able to accomplish, because it consisted only of movement controls. In some 
 corridors it is very difficult to move your character into way that you want.
  
  In my opinion every game have some advantages. Only one thing in that game a little bit improves 
 it value. It is sound and music. As we know from movie Hans Zimmer composes really good music. 
 And acting of Orlando Bloom and Johny Deep can also improve somehow characters values. But still 
 they look awful.
  
  To remind I revise available now Wii edition released for PC. So far we cannot enjoy Next-Gen version 
 of this game for PC.
  
  Some complains. I presume that Gamespot didn't put much attention of screens to this game. On official 
 website www. atworldsendgame. com are screens for PC platform which look exactly like for Wii platform. 
 And screens from PS3, X360 and PC are mostly the same but with different "added date". Please admins 
 of Gamespot be sure that these are correct screens for this game. Because of that this site can 
 became less reliable and all of us don't want that.
  
  To sum up. Game has awful graphics, terrible models of characters, not many advanced graphic options, 
 sometimes sound can improve a little bit climate but game is terrible. I hope that we will be able 
 to see NextGen version of this game on our PC's. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: riddickrp
Rating: 4.5
Date: May 30, 2007 11:29 pm PT
Review:  POTC: At World's End is hardly worth writing a large review about. PC players expecting a port 
 of the 360 version of this game beware: PC users are treated to a straight-without-modifications 
 port of the PS2 game. Expect silly keyboard mashing as you've never seen it before!
  
  The graphics are dated and unspectacular. Many of the sub-missions are near impossible to complete 
 because using a keyboard is a hindrance to anyone attempting to get 15+ hit combos in to get bonuses. 
 The game is of course geared toward children, but children easily would be put off by stupid little 
 things that were ported from a console to PC and make little since.
  
  It will be a miracle of someone unlocks all of the content in this game without ripping into the 
 game's files. It's just that stupid for PC.
  
  Much of the scoring I did is in regards to those interested in unlocking the game 100%, which is 
 near damn impossible. For those who wish to go from level A to Z, it wouldn't take you more than 
 a day of playing (and maybe 4-5 hours at that) .
  
  Earth to companies churning out cheap POS console ports to PC -- please evaluate the system you're 
 porting your games to and make adequate changes. The only redeeming quality about this game is 
 the fact that you can play as Mercer and kill Davy Jones. Sorry, thought I'd interject a personal 
 opinion. Oh, and Beckett's actually one of the better unlockables. /2cents 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
