-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Pirates of the Caribbean: The Legend of Jack Sparrow
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/piratesofthecaribbeanthelegendofjacksparrow/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Johnny Depp provides Captain Jack Sparrow's voice.
 makes clever use of Jack's rose-tinted memory.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Swordplay is sloppy, repetitive.
 enemies don't put up much of a fight.
 visuals look dated.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun 29, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.2
Critic Score: 4.9, 9 Review (s)
User Score: 6.6, 311 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Bethesda Softworks
Developer: 7 Studios
Genre: Historic Action Adventure
Date:     Jun 28, 2006 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The Legend of Jack Sparrow is a pretty standard hack-and-slash action game that doesn't deliver 
 on much of the stumblingly bombastic charm of its title character. 

  For a film based on an amusement-park ride,  Pirates of the Caribbean: The Curse of the Black Pearl 
  turned out, by most accounts, surprisingly well. Its success as a fun, swashbuckling adventure 
 was due in no small part to Johnny Depp's Oscar-nominated performance as pirate extraordinaire 
 Captain Jack Sparrow. Bethesda Softworks and 7 Studios attempt to put the spotlight on this bizarrely 
 magnetic character's past escapades with Pirates of the Caribbean: The Legend of Jack Sparrow, 
 going so far as to get Depp himself to record original dialogue for the game. The idea of learning 
 more about how Captain Jack turned into the charismatic brigand we know him as is enticing, but 
 The Legend of Jack Sparrow can't manifest much of the charm or personality of the character, and 
 the gameplay itself is bland and repetitive -- not at all evocative of Captain Jack Sparrow's woozy 
 enthusiasm.  

          Captain Jack is back, and he's got a couple whoppers to tell.     

  Though the game's 
 release has been timed to line up with the theatrical release of  Pirates of the Caribbean: Dead 
 Man's Chest , The Legend of Jack Sparrow doesn't even dip its toe into the story of Jack's dealings 
 with the squid-faced Davy Jones. The game opens with Captain Jack and the blacksmith-turned-pirate 
 Will Turner hunting down a valuable trinket held within the confines of a Spanish fortress, only 
 to find themselves double-crossed, captured, and preparing for a short drop and a sudden stop. 
 While standing at the gallows, Jack attempts to buy some time by recounting past exploits, which 
 is when the game really gets going. As Jack reminisces, you'll find yourself reliving some of the 
 key encounters from  The Curse of the Black Pearl , along with voyages to the Far East, an Arctic 
 glacier, and more.  

  Many of the brand-new missions feel a little too much like video game standards, but what makes 
 the game's structure really interesting is that Captain Jack Sparrow uses his gift for fiction 
 to rewrite his own history, which is the version you'll be playing through. It's a clever device 
 that gives the game license to do as it pleases with the established Pirates backstory, and it's 
 used to mildly humorous effect a few times, such as when the story veers suddenly and violently 
 away from the truth to better suit Jack's ego or when characters exclaim that they weren't actually 
 there in the middle of a flashback. These moments, though, are few, and though the game features 
 many over-the-top characters, The Legend of Jack Sparrow comes across as a bit dry, managing only 
 a shadow of the quirky energy that its cinematic forebearer crackled with. Even Depp himself, the 
 only cast member to provide his voice for the game, sounds a little bored through most of the game. 

  One cannot reasonably be expected to effectively buckle swash without a rapier, saber, scimitar, 
 cutlass, or some other kind of blade to ply your piratical trade with, and as such, swordplay is 
 the main focus of the gameplay in The Legend of Jack Sparrow. The game can be played either solo 
 or cooperatively with a friend, with player two taking on the role of Will Turner or Elizabeth 
 Swann, depending on the tale that Jack is currently weaving. The game works well enough cooperatively, 
 though it doesn't change the core experience much, since even when you're all by your onesies, 
 you'll still have an  compatriot to fight alongside you. You 
 can hot swap which character you're controlling on the fly, though it seems to take the friendly 
 AI a few more sword slashes to best an enemy, they generally stay out of the way, and you never 
 have to worry about them dying on you.  

  The swordplay itself is a bit mashy, with just two basic sword slashes that you can string together 
 into three-hit combos in a few different ways. You can also block attacks, perform rolling dodges, 
 and toss out projectiles such as Molotov cocktails, hand axes, and fish. You can upgrade the effectiveness 
 of many of your moves using money that you pick up by running enemies through, smashing crates, 
 and plundering treasure chests, though the enemies seem to get tougher at almost the exact same 
 pace as you, and the character upgrades ultimately don't affect the dynamics of the action. When 
 you have a full stock of projectile weapons, you can also trigger a short-lived special attack, 
 a flaming sword in Jack's case, which makes especially short work of your enemies.  

  Save for a few boss encounters that can take a few tries to get the timing down, most of the enemies 
 here, which include regular pirates, undead pirates, samurai warriors, Viking ghosts, and elemental 
 sand monsters, are a bunch of softies. It can get a little hectic when you've got a half-dozen 
 enemies surrounding you, but the game is pretty liberal with special health-imbuing treasure chests 
 and barrels for you to restock your projectile weapons, and most of the levels are pretty short. 
 The eventual monotony of the constant hacking and slashing is occasionally mitigated by stuff such 
 as cannon battles, on-foot chase sequences, and short-lived timing and endurance minigames. Also, 
 the game itself is over really quickly, and a determined afternoon session could make short work 
 of it. There are hidden collectibles that the game lamely tries to lure you back with, but it's 
 just not enough.  

  The Legend of Jack Sparrow doesn't have the most spectacular or even-keeled presentation either, 
 but it's not without its moments. Jack's in-game animations, while sometimes distractingly choppy, 
 often give off an appropriately swaggering air, and just watching his idle animation, you wouldn't 
 be too surprised if he fell over. Alternately, Will Turner's animations snap with the grace and 
 sharpness of someone who has dedicated themselves to the art of swordplay. The environments are 
 kind of small, with too many flat, grainy textures, but for the most part, they accurately capture 
 the kind of theme-park feel of the film. Comparing platforms, the PC version looks a little cleaner 
 than the PlayStation 2 version and features shorter load times to boot, though the default keyboard 
 controls are so arcane that it all but demands that you play with a gamepad. Curiously, though, 
 we could find no options to tweak the resolution in the PC version or any options for adjusting 
 the game's graphical quality.  

          Jack's revisionist history can be amusing at times, but a lot of the game feels rote.  
    

  Johnny Depp's performance, while not as drunkenly giddy as it should've been, definitely adds some 
 authenticity, and though the voice actors that provide pipes for Orlando Bloom's, Keira Knightley's, 
 and Geoffrey Rush's character aren't always spot on, they do an honest job, and it ultimately doesn't 
 distract. The game fills out the action with lots of clanging swords, death knells, and a rousing 
 soundtrack that, while repetitive, gets the job done.  

  In comparison to the source material, Pirates of the Caribbean: The Legend of Jack Sparrow is a 
 largely unremarkable affair with a few clever ideas that don't really get exploited to their full 
 potential. It's mostly competent as a simple beat-'em-up, and fans of the character might get a 
 rise out of it, but the experience is too short, the gameplay too simple, and the presentation 
 too uneven for it to be recommendable to most.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (13 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Squigy_Poodle
Rating: 1.3
Date: Apr 24, 2007 10:51 am PT
Review:  see above, nothing else to say, very buggy. Last lvl is god damn hard. Direct console port to PC 
 is a bad bad thing. Cannot change the controls for more then 1 player, no GFX options. Frustrating 
 at time. Camera bugs up. I mean all in all please avoid this game unless you are like me and have 
 NOTHING else to play. Story line is weird because it combines both movies and other things that 
 are quite random like the trip to China and Antarctica... randomly. This game makes little to no 
 sense in furthering the storyline of a great movie. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soccerslugger
Rating: 4.9
Date: Dec 19, 2006 1:09 pm PT
Review:  This seems like a good game... BUT... it won't even run on the newest and fastest gaming PC. It need 
 way more RAM than it says it does. On the packaging it says that you need 256mb. You need at least 
 twice as much, if not more. Also, the control's are REALLY bad. It took me a while to get to the 
 game, and changing the controls is not gonna change the speed of the game. To tell the truth, i 
 thought this game was gonna be pretty good and exciting, but NO. Don't get this game unless you 
 have one of those high quality graphic and proccesor PC's, like the ones from DELL. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fahad2mail
Rating: 2.6
Date: Oct 21, 2006 9:19 am PT
Review:  though i think i have no right to write a review cause i did'nt finish the game. bt the game not 
 good that i though of the movie, i have no choice. this is the worst game i have seen ever in my 
 whole life! their are all the charecter have of the movie. ur role is jack sparrow. the graphycs is 
 not to much good. n the gameplay? ohhh god! this is a thired person shooting game. its seems that the 
 developer have to done quickly on the game to publish the game. the main charecter have no seen 
 that its a man. seems like a doll! same as other charecter. lack of artificial intigence. when u fight 
 with the enemy, ur frnd sometimes stop the battle n show his sword like in that way he can kill 
 the enemy. the enemy are fool tooo (execpt the boss, bt beat the boss is easy tooo.) . sometimes they 
 just stand b4 u that they have to do nothing without taking hit. n the gameplay is so boaring. only 
 the sound looks good. i think its waste of money n time both to play this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_1234Anderson
Rating: 3.1
Date: Oct 1, 2006 11:31 am PT
Review:  a friend of mine gave me this game. he said i will be very frustrated. he was right. to start off 
 with, the graphics were ok, but compared to modern games (bf2) it was ugly. the sound was accually 
 very good. the score was very good. the gameplay was horrible though. i couldnt figure out how 
 to get past the first level without my friends help. what bethesda did was they took the code from 
 their PS2 version and copied it onto the PC. most of the game your having to hit left-right about 
 500 times in a row very fast, or you cant open a door or push an object. my friend's sister was 
 trying to save one time. it asked her to put an 8mb memory stick from a PS2 into the computer. 
 i never beat the game because of a glitch on one level. this ice wall is supposed to be broken 
 and i push this snowball at it but it wont break like its supposed to. bethesda hasnt released 
 a patch or anything to try an fix these problems. also the game is incredibily hard. at least on 
 PC it is. almost every level has a boss which is hard to beat. if you need a challenge, and you 
 see this game in the bargin bin, get this game. otherwise save your money and play BF2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mpam
Rating: 1.8
Date: Aug 28, 2006 1:10 am PT
Review:  What can I add ? it's all in the title... this Pirates of the Caribbean series seems to be going 
 to keep the most aweful controls available in current games. You can't assign controls to the mouse, 
 so you keep a default 2 controls on it (the other 5 buttons on my MX 510 are useless...) , the camera 
 follows you turning around like in Tomb Raider, you have to remember all controls before starting 
 playing your first level because, once a level loaded, you can't view the controls in the options, 
 and you can't go back to the main menu either unless you don't mind doing the level again (you 
 can't save until the end of each level) . And anyway, the controls are poorly responsive. The guys 
 at Bethesda Softworks shouldn't bother making PC games until they learn how to handle computer 
 controlers properly...
  
  Otherwise, I found the graphics pretty decent, the sound is ok too although repetitive.
  
  
 The AI is totally dumb, sometimes an enemy will stand on your side without attacking you and it's 
 even hard to guess if they are really an enemy...
  
  A feature I like is that you can switch between the 2 characters (usually Jack Sparrow and Will 
 or Elizabeth) at anytime. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lotrfan_1
Rating: 1.4
Date: Aug 8, 2006 11:02 pm PT
Review:  As a fan of the Pirates movies, I was looking forward to a great time, especially after hearing 
 the Mr. Depp himself was doing the voice overs. I couldn't have been more wrong.
  
  The moment that you start the game, the confusion sets in. Designed for console games, the menus 
 are a disaster to navigate. The tried and true method of ENTER meaning that you want to go into 
 option, and ESC getting you back out do not work, instead, you have to have a knowledge of what 
 weird symbols mean, and how they coerrlate to the keyboard. On top of that, as though menu controls 
 are pretty bad, the PC version doesn't have any graphical options at all. So you can't change the 
 resolution, you can't change the detail levels, and you can't change the brightness. Yippee.
  
  Now for the actual game at hand, it brings to the table nothing more than the exceptional character 
 of Jack Sparrow. The sword fighting is incredibly dull, as it usually involves the same combo over, 
 and over, and over, and over again. Switching characters does nothing more than to change the way 
 that the moves look. Frustrating gameplay mechanics include a faulty level up system, the worst 
 interactions to the gaming environment ever seen, and some rediculously stupid AI. Sound like fun?
 
  
  The graphics are some of the worst I have seen for a long time, with shockingly bad lip synch, 
 large clipping problems (did anybody else notice the sword flying from the characters hand?) , the 
 same generic models repeated throughout, and boring drab textures that do nothing to heighten the 
 mood, or make it stand out like the movies.
  
  The one redeeming feature of this worthless piece of trash is Jack Sparrow. It seems as though 
 the entire development time went into creating the legendary hero, and nothing else. He looks like 
 he might fall, he fights like a lunatic, and he sounds drunk. However, sadly, Johnny Depp sounds 
 a little bored during the voice overs, and who can blame him? The script is horribly, so bad in 
 fact, that it's amusing just to watch.
  
  This really is a great game gone incredibly wrong, and after Oblivion, I really thought Bethedsa 
 could come up with a masterpiece. I was obviously wrong. Oh well, back to watching Pirates of the 
 Caribbean 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PoP999606
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 24, 2006 9:13 am PT
Review:  Pirates of the Caribbean a great movie ( curse of the black pearl I mean) I haven't seen the seqel 
 but I enjoyed the first. When I heard about a game well I liked the idea. I got TLoJS and I started 
 to play it. And then the nightmare started...
  I saw the graphichs first, my God I think they'd be allrigh... sorry acceptabile in 2003. The sound 
 is ok not because of the soundtrack the soundtrack is prety boring because of the voice acting. 
 Johny Deep and Orlando Blooom are there but Elisebeth is vey bad iterpretated. Sound and graphichs 
 are on the second place the game cood have been saved by a good gamplay but ...
  I'll talk about that more later. The story line goes crazy with that China thing and at the end 
 there's always a boring bos to fight.
  The gamplay... well just by saing that it's boring the bugs are a lot and the nearly disastrous 
 AI combined make one of the most dumb gaming expiriences. Oh and did I mention that the requiramentes 
 are outrageous.
  In the end well... just don't play this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ArneZ
Rating: 1.8
Date: Jul 20, 2006 8:38 am PT
Review:  Slash through endless waves of pirates (or don't) as Captain Jack spins his broken sword.
  
  Im a hudge fan of Pirates of the Caribbean movies. Love the characters and story. I also have 
 a passion for hack`n slash games. Like Devil may cry, onimusha, God of War, Prince of Persia... Classic 
 games like that.
  When i started this game i didnt know what to ecspect.
  I was thinking maybe it had some potensial because of the brilliant movie.
  But you know..... i 
 was so wrong.
  If you wanna play a bad game.. Buy this.. it has nothing to offer.
  Bad graphics, bad enemys, bad controllers, bad story, bad voiceover and bad sound.
  As bad as it 
 can be..... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: moshel_007
Rating: 1.1
Date: Jul 16, 2006 9:08 am PT
Review:  Ok well this the the worst game with worst graphics. the controls suck, they are totally unresponsive. 
 and i still havent figured out a way to play it without using the gamepad. so if u dont have a 
 gamepad dont buy it.
  
  the controls are so utterly unresponsive. for eg. to slash an enemy, the enemy must be free i mean, 
 the enemy shud be standing idle and shud not be hitting someone else or running. which is very 
 frustrating. plus us keyboard players dont normally notice pictures given to buttons. but in this 
 u will need to remember the pictures for light attack, heavy attack, grab etc. which is one more 
 frustrating part.
  
  the graphics: ok well my character was supposed to stand with a sword in his hand, but when he 
 moves the sword goes ahead before him and u can see the sword flyyyyyin in the air. which i think 
 pretty much sums up for the graphics part.
  
  sound: soundtrack is good but it doesnt have many different musics so it becomes really repetitive.
 
  
  it seems bethesda software used much of the chunk of money behind Johnny Depp's voice. well bethesda 
 soft, first create a good game and then think of getting voice from a real star.
  
  P. S. i scored this with difficulty easy but learning curve 1 to 2 hrs becos of the fact that u 
 have to remember corresponding pictures to the controls (U cannot do without remembering it)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: OmegaDark
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jul 15, 2006 3:00 am PT
Review:  Pirates of the Caribbean: The Legend of Jack Sparrow falls perfectly into the Hack & Slash genre 
 of gaming. Its something definately not very common anymore these days, especially on PC and was 
 a welcome change out of the ordinary first person shooters. For $20 at Wal-Mart who is complaining?
 
  
  The overall look and fell to this game is very much "pirates of the carribbean". The settings are 
 somewhat familiar if you've seen the movies, and the music is right from the original soundtrack 
 giving you a much deeper sense of emersion.
  
  The character models look very much like their silver screen counterparts, but could use some more 
 flashyness to them. Each character has a unique feel to them, for example Jack is a quick and low 
 powered swordsman.. while Will is a much slower, elegant & powerfull sword fighter. Elizabeth is 
 very quick, but feel somewhat weaker than the rest. (perhaps since she is a lady?)
  
  Each character has a unique "special ability" Jack throws Maklov Cocktail type bombs to burn through 
 wood & obstacles on the ground, and Will throws axes to the harder to reach elevated enemies.
 
  
  The enemy character models tend to repeat themselves based on the level you are on. I saw maybe 
 3 or 4 different undead pirate models, and probably 2x different British Soldier models during 
 the first few levels. But that is almost expected in hack & slash games. :D
  
  I do admit that the graphics do look a bit outdated. Low resolution textures on buildings, backdrops 
 & ground tend to look grainy when standing still. But most of the time you will be too busy moving 
 about the area to notice.
  
  Cutscenes, used to tell & show many small parts of the story, also suffer from what looks like 
 unskillfull low rez CG. Not that I could do any better, but I've come to expect more from CG.
 
  
  Johnny Dept stars as Jack Sparrow once again, but unlike the Jack on the silver screen we've all 
 come to love, this "video game Jack" sounds bored, unexcited, and monotone throughout the entire 
 game. Again, I would have expected way more from an Oscar nomiated actor such as Johnny Dept, ESPECIALLY 
 since he does such a great job as the same character on the big screen.
  
  The controls are horrible. The Keyboard is not a great place to play a game like this, especially 
 if you're used to the standard First-Person shooter controls already. Pirates has you moving all 
 over the board just to play. In game help/hints dont specify what key does what at all. The mouse 
 pointer, althought isnt needed, is never displayed on screen. This makes navigating through menus 
 using the mouse more than a chore. The poory ported PS2 control scheme is clearly to blame for 
 this. I recommend using a controller to fully enjoy this game.
  
  In sum, pirates has a great feel & play to it for a hack & slash game on pc.
  Characters look 
 good, not great. Music is definately very emmersive, sound effects are good. Graphics look slightly 
 outdated, and the controls with a keyboard are nearly impossible. This game is bargain priced and 
 quickly become one of my guilty pleasures despite its flaws. I just can stop playing it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nimrod6881
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 14, 2006 9:49 am PT
Review:  Weak points:
  
  Camera
  Control of the characters
  Graphics
  Don't even has the option to change graphics.
  
  Bad conversion from the PS2 version and a 
 very bad game, the music is fine some from the movie soundtrack witch is great... think the producers 
 of the game could have done a better work if this game wasn't in a rush to came to the stores cause 
 of the movie. Any way its fun to play with Jack and hear some jokes :P! Buy it if you are a kid 
 with 8-10years :p by the way i canot die in this game wander why... Hope the movie is better than 
 the game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GB1787
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 10, 2006 12:14 am PT
Review:  After seeing some of the screenshots for this title, I decided to pick it up, and I have to say, 
 its pretty good. For some reason, you can't adjust the video, but the graphics appear in what appears 
 to be a pretty high resolution. There are some nice effects, and everything is very detailed. 
 
  
  Basically, this is a standard beat em' up, where you have a fast attack button, a strong attack 
 button, as well as various combinations and upgrades that you can get as the game progresses. 
 
  
  So how does the fighting measure up? Not half bad. Although you start with just a few basic sequences 
 of attacks, you can also perform a variety of acrobatic type moves, as well as ranged attacks. 
 As the game goes on, you can purchase additional moves, and this further varies the action. 
  
  You can also switch between the two main characters, and they each have a different fighting 
 style, although they both use scimitar type pirate swords. 
  
  Overall not bad at all, and actually surprisingly good. I would definitly mark this as another 
 one on the mark for BETHESDA, who brought us the Oblivion that we've all come to love. If you like 
 pirate games, you will probably enjoy Pirates of the Carribean, Legend of Jack Sparrow. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nappan
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jun 30, 2006 8:40 am PT
Review:  After Chronicles of Riddick, I really believed that games released with movies might start to improve. 
 Surely that game proved that a game could promote a movie and visa versa, AND be good! Alas time 
 seem to have shown otherwise. Pirates could have been so good. You've got a great actor voicing 
 the lead role, which is a GREAT lead role. You have the chance to make almost any kind of game 
 you want from the source material, AND it's an established movie success! 
  
  So, that said, gamespot is right about this game on all points. Johnny Depp is great, and the pov 
 of jack sparrow is pretty amusing. Beyond that, there is little to be said for the game. Nothing 
 really challenges the experienced (or even novice) gamer, and the combat (called sloppy by GS) 
 is terrible. Frankly, I didn't expect this game to be wonderful, and I wasn't dissapointed.
  
  When will it be accepted by the dev and movie making community that even though these c**p 
 movie-games DO boost movie success, they can get a much larger boost from a truly good game? Also, 
 a game can be more lucrative than a movie, so why not go for the brass ring and cash in on both 
 with a truly GOOD game. Oh well... not today, and not with Pirates. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
