-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Pirates of the Caribbean
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/rpg/piratesofthecaribbean/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jul  9, 2003
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.6
Critic Score: 6.7, 34 Review (s)
User Score: 7.8, 1,126 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Bethesda Softworks
Developer: Akella
Genre: Action Role-Playing
Date:     Jun 30, 2003
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Even with its problems, Pirates of the Caribbean is an enjoyable game that's recommendable to those 
 intrigued by the subject matter. 

  Pirates of the Caribbean from Bethesda Softworks and Russian developer Akella actually has little 
 to do with either the upcoming feature film or the popular Disney amusement park ride of the same 
 name. But considering the spotty track record of both movie-licensed and Disney-licensed games, 
 maybe that's a good thing. Pirates is actually very similar to Akella's previous effort, Sea Dogs, 
 a 3-year-old PC game that featured open-ended role-playing elements, ship-to-ship combat, swashbuckling, 
 trading, and more. Pirates has all these same elements, giving it a free-form sort of feel that's 
 reminiscent in some ways of Bethesda's own The Elder Scrolls III: Morrowind. Some technical issues 
 and a somewhat steep learning curve may unfortunately get in the way of your enjoyment of either 
 the Xbox or PC version of the game, and despite the generally impressive visuals, you'll need to 
 use your imagination to fill in a few blanks as you play. But if that's OK with you, you'll find 
 that Pirates of the Caribbean offers a refreshing and entertaining experience that successfully 
 evokes a sense of what it might have been like to live a life of danger and adventure on the high 
 seas.  

          It's kind of like 17th-century Grand Theft Auto with galleons replacing the cars.     

 
  In Pirates of the Caribbean, it's the 17th century, and you're Nathaniel Hawk, a sharp-witted 
 captain of his own modest ship. He's trying to make ends meet in the Caribbean, a collection of 
 small islands ruled over by European nations including the English, the French, the Spanish, the 
 Dutch, and more. The Caribbean archipelago is home to some good weather and plenty of lucrative 
 natural resources, which have made it an obvious draw for the world's powers -- as well as the perfect 
 place for pirates and privateers to set up shop. The game's story begins when the French make a 
 play for an English colony, and Hawk barely escapes with his life. He ends up helping put the French 
 back in their place and then becomes embroiled in a greater plot, which even has some supernatural 
 overtones. The presence of some undead pirates is apparently what ties this game in with its namesakes, 
 but other than the occasional encounters with the living dead, you'll find that Pirates of the 
 Caribbean pretty much plays it straight.  

  Pirates consists of a number of different gameplay elements. You navigate between islands by controlling 
 a tiny little ship as it crawls across a map of the Caribbean. You'll see numerous other vessels 
 materialize as you sail across the waters, some of which may attack you, and any of which you may 
 choose to attack yourself. Sometimes you'll see ships already engaged in battle and may crash the 
 party if it pleases you. You might also run headlong into a storm. Whenever these types of events 
 occur, the game switches to a third-person perspective of your ship, which you can then manually 
 control by raising and furling the sails, trying to catch a good tailwind, arming and firing your 
 cannons, and even boarding nearby enemy vessels. An optional first-person view lets you manually 
 aim your weapons, though the third-person view is usually preferable. You can also moor at the 
 numerous island ports or other dry-land locations of interest.  

  Once you've docked or boarded an enemy vessel (or been boarded yourself) , Pirates of the Caribbean 
 becomes a third-person action adventure game of sorts, as you'll be controlling Hawk directly and 
 can engage in some basic combat using your saber and slow-loading pistol. Boarding is roughly the 
 same every time -- in larger ships you'll go through several stages of combat, but Hawk can always 
 take a cheap shot against his foes when the action first begins. When in town, Hawk can mill about 
 and speak with the locals, and visit key locations including the tavern, the shop, the shipyard, 
 and the town hall. A first-person perspective is optionally available here as well, and though 
 the on-foot regions are relatively small, they're carefully detailed and make a good contrast to 
 the boundless stretches of ocean that you'll see while sailing.  

  The main storyline has Hawk scurrying from island to island for various reasons, which is a great 
 opportunity to engage in the game's trade system. You have access to a trade book that shows you 
 which goods are imported from and which goods are exported to each island, and you can proceed 
 to buy low and sell high. The bigger the ship you have (or the more ships you have in your fleet) , 
 the more stuff you can lug and the more profit you can earn. The commerce model in Pirates of the 
 Caribbean is simple and static -- there's constant demand for the same goods at each location, and 
 you can easily and instantly dump off all your goods at the general store of each island, making 
 the trade portion of the game seem pretty shallow.  

          You'll get to fine-tune Nathaniel Hawk's abilities and build his reputation.     

  
 Fortunately, commerce is just one of several ways to earn money in the game. You're rewarded well 
 for solving the main story quests as well as for taking on occasional random missions, which usually 
 take the form of offers from wealthy merchants for you to escort them to certain remote islands. 
 The quests are pretty simple in general and usually just require you to reach a certain destination 
 or eliminate a certain target. The scripted sequences that are supposed to come off like surprising 
 twists (such as if a bunch of authorities break in on your covert meeting with a spy) end up looking 
 rather hokey, and there tend to be noticeable pauses and interruptions before you begin conversing 
 with characters, so Pirates of the Caribbean really isn't very good at storytelling. But it isn't 
 bad, either, mostly since some of the dialogue is pretty amusing. In addition to questing, you 
 can also attack other sea vessels, including pirates and the European nations' fleets. If you have 
 officers among your crew (you can meet and hire these individuals in taverns) you may put one at 
 the helm of a vessel that you've successfully captured after you've boarded and seized it. Selling 
 off extra ships to the nearest shipyard is a great way to make cash, though having a fleet at your 
 side rather than just your own ship can be desirable, too.  

  As suggested by all this, Pirates of the Caribbean is indeed an open-ended game. As you solve quests 
 and sink enemy ships, you'll gain experience points and level up, and with each level gained, Hawk 
 can improve his core attributes and learn a new special ability. The attributes include things 
 like leadership, melee combat, defense, grappling (your ability to board enemy ships) , commerce, 
 and luck, which affect either your skills as a swashbuckler, as a captain, or as a tradesman. The 
 abilities have a more apparent and immediate effect and let you significantly improve your character 
 with each level gained, such as by giving you significant bonuses to your cannons' range or damage 
 or by allowing you to board enemy vessels from greater distances. So as any good role-playing game 
 ought to, Pirates of the Caribbean does a fine job of making you feel rewarded for gaining an experience 
 level. Since there are numerous viable paths for developing your character -- you may initially focus 
 on improving Hawk's fighting abilities instead of improving his abilities as a ship captain, for 
 instance -- the game also has some solid replay value to it.     

  Hawk gains a reputation, one way or another, over the course of the game. Do good deeds and you'll 
 be well liked by most of the European nations, though maybe not by the pirates. Or, you can become 
 a wicked pirate yourself and strike fear into the hearts of wealthy merchants everywhere, though 
 you'd better be ready to face some powerful enemy European fleets. As he gains levels, Hawk also 
 becomes eligible to commandeer larger and larger ships, so soon enough your crew of less than a 
 hundred may grow to many times that size if you can afford (or relieve an enemy of) a better set 
 of sails. In the bigger ships, especially if you have fleets of them, you can even take on island 
 fortresses in some of the game's most challenging naval battles. The larger ships can be less maneuverable 
 than the smaller ones and can cost a fortune to repair, but they are still hands-down superior 
 to smaller vessels for the most part. As such, it's quite satisfying to upgrade to a larger ship 
 class.  

          Naval combat is appropriately dramatic, slow, and challenging. Get used to seeing Davy 
 Jones' locker.     

  Naval combat is slow-paced and relatively simple -- just point your broadsides at the opponent and 
 commence firing, then maybe try to maneuver to an odd angle as you reload, to prevent the enemy 
 from returning fire as effectively. You have a number of different ammo types at your disposal, 
 including good old cannonballs, grape shot that's perfect for killing enemy crew, knippel for destroying 
 sails and rigging, and bombs, which are more expensive but more destructive than the other types. 
 You may also upgrade to different types of cannons, some of which have a longer range at the expense 
 of less power, or vice versa. There isn't so much you can do to customize your ship besides that. 
 You want to keep your crew maxed out at all times and keep its morale high, which is easily achieved 
 just by paying everyone extra if their morale gets low for some reason. Also, just as you can upgrade 
 your ship's weapons, so can you buy better swords and pistols for Hawk.  

  So, Pirates of the Caribbean does indeed have a number of different elements to it, but none of 
 them are very complex, and none of them are good enough to carry the game on their own. This is 
 the sort of game that instead achieves success through the sheer quantity of activities it has 
 to offer. At first you'll probably get thrown off by the game's rather jarring transitions between 
 the map, in-ship, and on-foot sequences -- even when you board an enemy vessel, all you get is a 
 loading screen to represent the process. Still, you'll probably be able to suspend your disbelief 
 during these lacking transitional sequences, just as you'll be able to forgive the clunky and rather 
 slow on-foot controls both for combat and for just running around. Fortunately, when in town, you 
 have access to an icon-based menu that lets you magically jump between locations of interest. You 
 could easily approach an island, dock your ship, and sell all your cinnamon and tobacco at the 
 local store in about a minute of real time, for example.  

  On a high-end PC, some aspects of Pirates of the Caribbean look really impressive, and the Xbox 
 version mostly looks great too. The main difference is that PC owners can get the game running 
 faster and smoother and in considerably higher detail than on the Xbox. In either case, the game's 
 character models are simple and move awkwardly, but the ships are highly detailed, the undulating 
 and shimmering water looks dazzlingly realistic more often than not, and weather effects look very 
 convincing. Other graphical details, such as how tall grass folds and bends as you run through 
 it, help make Pirates look particularly convincing at times. The game's sound effects are minimal -- speech 
 is mostly limited to some generic catchphrases uttered by nonplayer characters (their actual dialogue 
 is all in text) , and ambient effects in towns or while at sea aren't anything to write home about. 
 Some of the sounds during naval combat are quite good, though, and the game's musical score is 
 excellent. It's noticeably missing the Pirates of the Caribbean ride's "yo-ho, yo-ho" theme song, 
 but it's catchy and fits the setting and circumstances very well.  

          It's not all great, but there's a lot to see and do in Pirates of the Caribbean.     

 
  As mentioned, Pirates of the Caribbean unfortunately has some bugs to it, and surprisingly the 
 Xbox version seems to be the bigger offender. We spotted some textual typos in the Xbox version 
 that weren't in the PC version, but more seriously, at one point during our experience playing 
 the Xbox version, one of our saved games became corrupted and the game then crashed, resulting 
 in hours of lost time. Other players have reported similar incidents, though the incidents seem 
 more unlucky than rampant, whereas the PC version of the game seems rather more stable and merely 
 at risk of an occasional crash to desktop. Strangely, neither version of the game feels entirely 
 at home on its platform. On the Xbox, much like with Morrowind, you get the feeling you're playing 
 a port of a PC game, due to the relatively complicated controls, text-heavy open-ended gameplay, 
 ability to save anywhere, finicky frame rate, and frequent and somewhat annoying loading times. 
 On the PC, you feel like you're playing a port of a console game, due to the awkward default controls 
 and the limited ability to change them, as well as the very large in-game text. These sorts of 
 issues make Pirates seem rough around the edges and do hurt the game to some extent.  

  Even with its problems, though, Pirates of the Caribbean is an enjoyable game that's recommendable 
 to those intrigued by the subject matter. The big, dramatic-looking naval battles pack in a lot 
 of variety, and the open-ended structure of the campaign rewards your curiosity. Too bad the shortcomings 
 put Pirates somewhat shy of greatness in the grand scheme of things, but you won't be thinking 
 about that as you're waylaying or defending merchant ships filled with silk and ale and all sorts 
 of other good stuff.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (41 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: tksmiller
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 28, 2009 4:43 pm PT
Review:  when I got this when it came out, I put it in and got the hang of it in seconds. The boatswain 
 really helps ya at first and then when you leave Oxbay you know what to find. They help keep the 
 briefings clear. 
  The graphics shook me along with the realism. It was almost like what you'd see in the XBOX 360 
 (almost) . The music made you wanna sleep though (wich is good for a game that takes place in the 
 17th century) . The sound was realistic although there aren't much speaking voices so you gotta 
 use your imagination. 
  
  Sailing is a bit arcade, but really fun, especially if you got a battleship, than nothing will 
 take ya down. 
  
  Fights arent realstic though. When you block your stuck there cause if you move you die. Numbers 
 of units make the game very unfair. I caught myself using God mode cheat alot. If you can get around 
 that, than your in for a good collection to the classics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cobrafazea
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 20, 2008 4:43 pm PT
Review:  I dont know how many guys rated this game 5 and below that ...... i was shocked when i saw the score 
 in gamespot .... i was waiting to see a 9.5 or even a 10 ..... i saw this game having no flaws in 
 th begining .... and i really enjoyed thisgame too much ... its quite a stunner really ...... you 
 have to play this game .... everybody have to .. its really tons of fun ... maybe its completlly different 
 from the movie ... but it is perfect to me ...... have everything you need to sail and to trade and 
 to fight with you ship and buy new ships , and fight fortresses and choosing on what side you are 
 (pirates , legal side ) .... etc {much more ... feel free to explore it your self }
  the game is really fabulous ... like too much.. my freinds like too much .. every one i know like 
 it ...........
  thanx for reading 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mann_Slaughter
Rating: 5.5
Date: Aug 21, 2008 10:06 am PT
Review:  Yes the game looks pretty, and the ambient sounds while exploring the island, or on the deck of 
 your ship sound nice, but graphics, and sails slapping in the wind don't make a great game.
  
  It's poorly written, with TERRIBLE voices, and the inane chatter gets very repetitious before 
 too long.
  
  Everything about this game is slow: The sword fighting and traveling on foot on islands (even when 
 running) are painfully s-l-o-o-o-o-w! 
  
  Once you've managed to capture a couple of galleons, or battleships the sea battles are a cakewalk.
 
  
  And finally, the later missions consist nearly entirely of "Deliver this" and "Fetch that" runs. 
 If I wanted to make "delivery runs" I'd play Pizza Dude, or one of the many taxi driving games.
 
  
  BORING!
  
  I STILL can't believe that this is the highest-rated pirate game on GameSpot.
  
  -Slaughter
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: maniksdi
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 7, 2008 6:53 am PT
Review:  17th century ships in the open waters is what impressed me first . . the pleasing graphics with 
 soothing music adds to the ambiance . . and the idea of the movie pressed even more . . these are 
 the points that backed me to start this slow game . . . . . . but at one point I couldn't look 
 away from the screen . . so many nice islands . . so many things to explore . . . so much loot 
 and so much to discover . . once I finished the story mode I played again with an walkthrough . 
 . . for a GTA fan with classic tastes this is definitely one of my favorite games . . . . . those 
 big ships with all the vital statistics and the in depth character developments are quite good
 
  
  things I didn't like about the game is that you cannot continue freeplay after finishing the storymode, 
 and the cutscene videos could have been better . . and the game is full of bugs!
  
  wish they bring out a sequel anytime 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tropico_joe
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 4, 2008 11:28 am PT
Review:  The game when orriganly release was diffcult to new players and many blackscreen bugs feazing glitchs 
 and all around screw ups were included but the effects keeps it going the online community is what 
 drives this game as builds are being made constantly to improve game play add depth to the story 
 and make it more realistic with each year the game is made all that much better by the guys and 
 girls and piratesahoy making this buitie of a game truely an ongoing master peice but untill the 
 bugs are all patched up those who are easilly frustrated might want to stay a way as saving is 
 a constant must do to shut downs some of the more recent add ons include many ships a whole new 
 interface that makes even just the loading screens dazzling, build a town not perfected though, 
 added guns pluse a needed supply of ammo, and a whole new start up sequence allowing you to chose 
 your starting ship nation look and difficulty.
  
  
  ps sorry for miss spellings 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jpnelson82
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 16, 2008 2:49 am PT
Review:  If looks alone made a game great this one would be the best game made. The look is just fantastic. 
 The game is supposedly very difficult to manage on a keyboard, but I'm not sure. I think the game 
 is better than Pirates, mostly because of the look. I might purchase it to see what it's like, 
 but I don't usually play RPG's. I have Transformers, the game. One reason I don't play them might 
 be because I never have a fast enough computer to handle them well. Playing an RPG really requires 
 an super duper Nvidia 1000000XXX or better, a quad core P10 processor, massive flat screen LCD; 
 and that's only good for 6 months until the latest DirectX gets released from Microsoft which the 
 Super Duper 100000XXX is not compatible with or some new Windows gets released so I do the RTS 
 thing. That aside, If you intend to play this, try a gamepad or just buy the console version. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: uacagin
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 15, 2008 11:44 am PT
Review:  I first saw this game when my friend was playing it. It looked like a game that was worth playing 
 for me so i decided to buy it, when i finally got it, i installed it on my computer and started playing 
 it with hoping that it really would be a great game, and i saw that this game was not one of those 
 games which make you excited in the first place then disappoint you.
  
  At that year graphics looked great to me because i wasnt playing so much games with GREAT graphics. The 
 good thing about RPG's is that you can do anything you want in anywhere you want, i dont think that 
 it would've been a GREAT game if it didnt envolve RPG features. I dont remember any serious bugs 
 in the game that you would curse to. I didnt notice much to the audio system because the whole thing 
 about RPG's are to have fun by doing everything, so actually, they dont have to be GREAT on graphics 
 or on audio to me. When i think about pirate games, all i can think of is sea battles, and when i 
 thought of that for this game i supposed i MAY NOT like it that much, but this agme takes it to 
 another level by putting the players into land too. You can fight in sea or in land, you can trade 
 do missions for governors of islands and even you can conquer an island for yourself. I think that 
 the game should have focused on the things you could have done after conquering an island because, when 
 you DO conquer an island it doesn't exactly become your's. You have a reputation in this game so 
 you can become the most feared man in the carribeans or you can become a man everybody likes.
 
  
  I dont remember it EXACTLY now but there was a bug about the dice game you can play in the tavern 
 and you could do some things and win money by doing absolutely NOTHING!! The games great as i said 
 bfore but still if it were improved a little more about the things you can do in the game world 
 i think it could have been the best game ever made!
  
  So i think Pirates Of The Carribean is one of those rare games that you'd like to keep installed 
 on your computer just in case you want to play it again and again...... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zakld
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 12, 2007 9:30 am PT
Review:  OK here it is. I played this game quite a few years ago it seems. 
  
  At first it seemed like it was going to be just OK. I had never played pirate games before it, 
 so it seemed just like any other adveture / role-play and I thought it would finish before I started 
 getting into it..... was I wrong... 
  
  Well, it first introduced me into the whole pirate thing and then it introduced stuff that you 
 can do on land. Therefore it combined ship sailing and fighting with unique pirate ages on land 
 fighting and exploring. There is so much so explore and so much fun fighting. 
  
  After finishing it, I really liked it and would probably score it slightly better than I scored 
 Overlord (I scored overlord at 8) - I would have probably given it 8.3. 
  
  However, bearing in mind that it has stood the test of time and in my opinion no game made after 
 it came even near it I have to move it from Excellent to Brilliant, so I move it from 8 to 9 - 
 9 being the starting score for what I call Legendary Games.
  
  I thought this was going to be just any old game, but when playing it is I realised it was much 
 more than that. However, I thought future games would match it and it would be just another fun 
 game with querky details and ideas.
  
  Having played pirate games after it, I was disappointed at how abysmal game makers are at even 
 trying to replicate this game. Very disappointing they've been and so I give this game a 9 and 
 recommend it to everyone and another legendary game.
  
  
  My marking system is as follows:
  
  10 - Absolute Legend
  9 - Must Be Played
  8 - Excellent 
 and Worth Your Time
  7 - Worth playing if you have nothing else to play
  6 - worh playing if you have nothing to play and are incredbly bored and have not got absolutely 
 anything else to do. (Barely playable/enjoyable) . 
  
  I don't give marks 1-5 as if a game starts sucking I don't finish it, so I only review the games 
 that are barely playable (6) to the absolutely amazingly incredible ones (10) .
  
  I will also probably keep my reviews short as I don't like discovering too much about the gameplay. 
 I only like to give my quick opinion and get on with life.
  
  Best Wishes to everyone,
  
  Zak
  
  (reincarnation) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MaxCore117
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 27, 2007 2:25 pm PT
Review:  POTC The game is not in any way related to the movie series, which is probably why I liked it. 
 You had a certain of freedom to do whatever you wished in the Caribbean. Either be a merchant and 
 trade goods from island to island or a pirate ready to attack and steal cargo from other ships, 
 you can adjust your core skills and ship accordingly. The leveling system is similar to most RPG's 
 as you can spend attribute points in different areas of skill. You're not in your ship all the 
 time, as you are often involved in fencing battles on land or if you decide to board enemy ships. 
 There is a small range of swords and guns to purchase to give you the upper hand aswell. You can 
 also hire a crew to aid you on land or to sail ships and help you on the battlefield. The melee 
 combat system was very simple and plain, having a button to attack and a button to block but worked 
 well all the same. The battles on the sea on the other hand are quite well done as you load your 
 cannons with different ammo types and put your sails up/down to increase/decrease speed, you also 
 have the option to sink the enemy ship, or board and capture it, by capturing ships you sell them 
 at a ship dealer too. Different ships have different advantages and disadvantages. This game reminded 
 me quite a lot of Freelancer, only a lot simpler. I thought it was very fun to play and like in 
 other RPG's you can stay away from the main quest completely if you so choose. Shame there was 
 no multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nuggs_15
Rating: 7.7
Date: Aug 2, 2007 1:42 am PT
Review:  The Pirates of the Caribbean is a multi millionaire trilogy of pirate adventure and intense fighting. 
 The games are complete opposite, many of the games have been trashed talked by games reviewers 
 yet it is this game, unrelated to the movies seems like the best of the bunch.
  
  The graphics, with a decent processor and graphics card, are amazing. The detail is superb but 
 this is the PC we're on about, with every increasing graphical capabilities it is the PC that can 
 easily compete with the next gen consoles and this game, despite being released a few years ago, 
 is admirably well captured and the texture and details are mouth dropping gorgeous. But then there 
 is the gameplay and this is where I think POTC is let down. Whilst the game is obviously meant 
 to be an RPG most missions leave you guessing and with no structure of advice the game is rather 
 difficult in places, fustrating the gamer (well me in this instance) and obviously harms what the 
 game could achieve. The fighting is slow and rather difficult, it seems that you mostly go into 
 fights as the underdog, if you have poor equipment you will lose a majority of fights.
  There is the boat sections and whilst handling of the boat is patchy at places and rather boring, 
 the fights are good and well constructed, usually setting up unforgettable moments and wonderful 
 drama and suspense. The sound is ok but nothing flashy and the songs mostly fit the occasion. Whilst 
 the game is rather difficult in my opinion, the storymode is not long and replayability is average, 
 there is also no online or multiplayer which is disappointing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: guzganu2006
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 6, 2007 2:30 am PT
Review:  First of,, it would be appropriate to say that, if you're a fan of the theme, I whole-heartedly 
 reccomend this game. Perhaps the best way to describe it would be that it complements Sid Meier's 
 Pirates in a way that no game can. The gameplay allows you to immerse yourself in the world of 
 buccaneering, experiencing first hand the battles and other aspects that books and films have always 
 shown and this would be a deffinite plus. On the downside, I must say that the world is somewhat 
 restrctive, having only a handfull of islands to visit, each the representative of the great colonial 
 emires of the time. True enough, the map sailing perspective makes traveling between these islands 
 somewhat time-consuming and having even more ground (or rather water) to cover would certainly 
 put one off. The storyline is a two-bladed knife. It is both welcome and sometimes annoying. While 
 a pirate game with a story and final game was hard to come by until this one, the story can prove 
 rather restrictive at times. Other than that, all is well: the graphics aren't too flashy, but 
 they can please the player's eye nonetheless, the character development part is quite well put 
 together, even though it takes away the pleasure of creating your own appearance and naming and 
 the sound is most excelent, even more so if you have a 5.1 system to enjoy it. On the whole, not 
 a bad game at all, but those rough edges could use some smoothing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hhhenning
Rating: 10
Date: May 20, 2007 3:33 pm PT
Review:  Pirates of the Caribbean from Bethesda Softworks and Russian developer Akella actually has little 
 to do with either the upcoming feature film or the popular Disney amusement park ride of the same 
 name. But considering the spotty track record of both movie-licensed and Disney-licensed games, 
 maybe that's a good thing. Pirates is actually very similar to Akella's previous effort, Sea Dogs, 
 a 3-year-old PC game that featured open-ended role-playing elements, ship-to-ship combat, swashbuckling, 
 trading, and more. Pirates has all these same elements, giving it a free-form sort of feel that's 
 reminiscent in some ways of Bethesda's own The Elder Scrolls III: Morrowind. Some technical issues 
 and a somewhat steep learning curve may unfortunately get in the way of your enjoyment of either 
 the Xbox or PC version of the game, and despite the generally impressive visuals, you'll need to 
 use your imagination to fill in a few blanks as you play. But if that's OK with you, you'll find 
 that Pirates of the Caribbean offers a refreshing and entertaining experience that successfully 
 evokes a sense of what it might have been like to live a life of danger and adventure on the high 
 seas. It's kind of like 17th-century Grand Theft Auto with galleons replacing the cars. In Pirates 
 of the Caribbean, it's the 17th century, and you're Nathaniel Hawk, a sharp-witted captain of his 
 own modest ship. He's trying to make ends meet in the Caribbean, a collection of small islands 
 ruled over by European nations including the English, the French, the Spanish, the Dutch, and more. 
 The Caribbean archipelago is home to some good weather and plenty of lucrative natural resources, 
 which have made it an obvious draw for the world's powers -- as well as the perfect place for pirates 
 and privateers to set up shop. The game's story begins when the French make a play for an English 
 colony, and Hawk barely escapes with his life. He ends up helping put the French back in their 
 place and then becomes embroiled in a greater plot, which even has some supernatural overtones. 
 The presence of some undead pirates is apparently what ties this game in with its namesakes, but 
 other than the occasional encounters with the living dead, you'll find that Pirates of the Caribbean 
 pretty much plays it straight. Pirates consists of a number of different gameplay elements. You 
 navigate between islands by controlling a tiny little ship as it crawls across a map of the Caribbean. 
 You'll see numerous other vessels materialize as you sail across the waters, some of which may 
 attack you, and any of which you may choose to attack yourself. Sometimes you'll see ships already 
 engaged in battle and may crash the party if it pleases you. You might also run headlong into a 
 storm. Whenever these types of events occur, the game switches to a third-person perspective of 
 your ship, which you can then manually control by raising and furling the sails, trying to catch 
 a good tailwind, arming and firing your cannons, and even boarding nearby enemy vessels. An optional 
 first-person view lets you manually aim your weapons, though the third-person view is usually preferable. 
 You can also moor at the numerous island ports or other dry-land locations of interest. Once you've 
 docked or boarded an enemy vessel (or been boarded yourself) , Pirates of the Caribbean becomes 
 a third-person action adventure game of sorts, as you'll be controlling Hawk directly and can engage 
 in some basic combat using your saber and slow-loading pistol. Boarding is roughly the same every 
 time -- in larger ships you'll go through several stages of combat, but Hawk can always take a cheap 
 shot against his foes when the action first begins. When in town, Hawk can mill about and speak 
 with the locals, and visit key locations including the tavern, the shop, the shipyard, and the 
 town hall. A first-person perspective is optionally available here as well, and though the on-foot 
 regions are relatively small, they're carefully detailed and make a good contrast to the boundless 
 stretches of ocean that you'll see while sailing. The main storyline has Hawk scurrying from island 
 to island for various reasons, which is a great opportunity to engage in the game's trade system. 
 You have access to a trade book that shows you which goods are imported from and which goods are 
 exported to each island, and you can proceed to buy low and sell high. The bigger the ship you 
 have (or the more ships you have in your fleet) , the more stuff you can lug and the more profit 
 you can earn. The commerce model in Pirates of the Caribbean is simple and static -- there's constant 
 demand for the same goods at each location, and you can easily and instantly dump off all your 
 goods at the general store of each island, making the trade portion of the game seem pretty shallow. 
 You'll get to fine-tune Nathaniel Hawk's abilities and build his reputation. Fortunately, commerce 
 is just one of several ways to earn money in the game. You're rewarded well for solving the main 
 story quests as well as for taking on occasional random missions, which usually take the form of 
 offers from wealthy merchants for you to escort them to certain remote islands. The quests are 
 pretty simple in general and usually just require you to reach a certain destination or eliminate 
 a certain target. The scripted sequences that are supposed to come off like surprising twists (such 
 as if a bunch of authorities break in on your covert meeting with a spy) end up looking rather 
 hokey, and there tend to be noticeable pauses and interruptions before you begin conversing with 
 characters, so Pirates of the Caribbean really isn't very good at storytelling. But it isn't bad, 
 either, mostly since some of the dialogue is pretty amusing. In addition to questing, you can also 
 attack other sea vessels, including pirates and the European nations' fleets. If you have officers 
 among your crew (you can meet and hire these individuals in taverns) you may put one at the helm 
 of a vessel that you've successfully captured after you've boarded and seized it. Selling off extra 
 ships to the nearest shipyard is a great way to make cash, though having a fleet at your side rather 
 than just your own ship can be desirable, too. As suggested by all this, Pirates of the Caribbean 
 is indeed an open-ended game. As you solve quests and sink enemy ships, you'll gain experience 
 points and level up, and with each level gained, Hawk can improve his core attributes and learn 
 a new special ability. The attributes include things like leadership, melee combat, defense, grappling 
 (your ability to board enemy ships) , commerce, and luck, which affect either your skills as a swashbuckler, 
 as a captain, or as a tradesman. The abilities have a more apparent and immediate effect and let 
 you significantly improve your character with each level gained, such as by giving you significant 
 bonuses to your cannons' range or damage or by allowing you to board enemy vessels from greater 
 distances. So as any good role-playing game ought to, Pirates of the Caribbean does a fine job 
 of making you feel rewarded for gaining an experience level. Since there are numerous viable paths 
 for developing your character -- you may initially focus on improving Hawk's fighting abilities instead 
 of improving his abilities as a ship captain, for instance -- the game also has some solid replay 
 value to it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slayer_Sam
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 24, 2007 3:37 am PT
Review:  While Pirates of the Caribbean may share the same name as the recently released movie and original 
 ride, it doesn't really have anything to do with either. It was actually originally supposed to 
 be Sea Dogs II, but then someone figured they'd slap a new title on it to theoretically capitalize 
 on the film. There are some regular pirates and some zombie pirates, but none of the swashbucklers 
 from the big screen. Instead, you get the boring story of Nathaniel Hawk, a captain during a time 
 of political discontent. Pirates of the Caribbean is brought to us by Bethesda, makers of the fantastic 
 The Elder Scrolls III: Morrowind. Morrowind and Pirates share the same open-ended design philosophy, 
 featuring enormous playpen environments to adventure through on both land and sea. Unfortunately, 
 Pirates suffers from serious control and bug issues that loot most of the fun out of the game. 
 For instance, the control interface is altogether confusing regardless of whether you are on the 
 PC or the Xbox. The Xbox controls are a bit tighter, but are still needlessly clunky. Two buttons 
 must be pushed to handle the work of one button; it becomes an acquired skill, but it's never really 
 second nature. The PC version is just as obtuse, with your left hand flying across the keyboard 
 just to fulfill simple commands, while your right hand is weakly fumbling with the limited mouse 
 controls. With either system, the swordplay is stiff and unsatisfying. You just swing your sword, 
 block and hop backwards as little statistical damage numbers fly from a villain's head. How I miss 
 the smooth and natural lock-on of a Zelda battle in comparison to this mash and dash. The sea battles 
 are much more rewarding, as you lob cannonballs at distant ships and assess the damage from your 
 sight glass. In order to successfully aim, you must compensate for wind and enemy movement. This 
 part of the game feels the most piratey; you can even board an enemy's ship, but then it's back 
 to the crummy swordplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MelJ111
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 24, 2007 9:19 pm PT
Review:  FIRST OFF: BUY THIS GAME!!!
  SECOND: BEWARE OF GLITCHES, THIS GAME DOES CONTAIN A FEW... OTHER THAN THAT, FIGHT ON!
  
  Pirates 
 of the Caribbean definitely kicks some butt! Really sweet graphics (The best I've seen ever!) and 
 non-stop exciting sword-fights! This is the ideal Pirates game, everything you would want to do! 
 Hey, you can even be a good pirate, or even a Hero.
  
  First of all let me define the picture on graphics. Most EXHILARATING, REALISTIC and PROFESSIONAL 
 I have ever seen in my gaming history. Weather changes, and let me say it's beautiful watching 
 your ship just sail along, whether in a sunset or a stormy day, it just captures you. Whether you 
 are at sea, battling canons with another ship or sword-fighting a angry pirate, you must always 
 be on your guard. There is non-stop action, and one blow from a sword or ship could kill you. You 
 are Nathanial Hawk, fighting for freedom.
  
  Nathanial Hawk is your character. Thankfully he is a pretty decent looking guy, not some weirdo. 
 You start with a small ship, a Lugger. There are different class ships, and different types of 
 ships. For example, a Lugger is a class 6 ship, the second lowest class, and a Battleship is a 
 class 1 ship, the highest class. Get my drift? Anyways, back to Nathanial... there are several missions 
 you may undertake, some side-quests, some that can be done in due time. In those pirate days the 
 booty was gold. Gold can buy you anything. Most things, anyway. With gold you can buy new swords 
 from merchants, guns, trinkets, ships and even your own crew and faithful officers. Your officers 
 follow you. They aide you against enemies to the death. In your party, you can have up to 3 officers 
 with you, and you can swap them anytime, fire them even. Leveling up is another good thing. You 
 increase in level once you gain enough experience. Then you can choose feats and skill points. 
 Even officers level up.
  
  The Best Feeling is when you board an enemy ship, fight your way through, and then capture it! 
 Then you have a great ship, worth a lot of booty and you can sell it, pillage it or KEEP it! This 
 game is so fun, it's hard to put in words!
  
  Fighting enemies is one of the good parts. There are tons of different people to battle, and only 
 one of you will come out alive. Fighting skeletons, city guards, pirates, sea merchants or pick-pocket 
 robbers, it's all in good fun. I actually died a lot in many land battles. There are strategies 
 in sword-play, and it's crucial to know when to strike and when to block.
  
  When sailing from island to island at sea, (Yes, there are many, many islands) you encounter ships. 
 It could be a pirate vessel ready to pillage your ship, or a simple merchant ship, just passing 
 by. Sailing you may avoid certain unwanted conflicts.
  
  This game does follow certain things from the movies (Yes I love them too) , like the Black Pearl. 
 If Pirates interests you, run to the store and grab this game. I guarantee you will get your money's 
 worth with this fantastic GAME!
  
  By M &amp; S 
::::::

::::::
UserName: limraz
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 19, 2007 5:39 am PT
Review:  Actually you are not a real pirate who plunder the islands and ships of caribbean sea along the 
 game, just a man involved in a plot full of danger and fights. I felt kind of strange using team 
 management while fighting skeletons and pirates along the roads and suddenly implicated in complicate 
 sea battle with small ships. It will take a while to buy powerful ships, cannons and weapons to 
 `acquire` a bigger fleet, but is fun nevertheless. Navigating between islands is sometime painfull 
 because pirates and storms show up unexpectedly and you need to be alert and avoid them by running 
 or hiding along the shore, away from danger. The graphic is old, of course, but make the environment 
 alive and the story is capable to deliver a personal involvement who keep the pleasure intact `till 
 the end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Johnanth
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 14, 2008 12:34 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the best RPGs I ever played. In the beggining you are in a small British island 
 and you have to do a few small tasks. When you leave french invade and you report to small island 
 nearby.
  
  The sailing system is just AMAZING!! You have to love this!! No pains with sails or cannons, now 
 you can just sail away! (except if you don't pay your men or don't have food and rum for them they 
 get a 'treacherous' morale and they might kill you)
  
  Another great thing is the officers. You can buy them ships and they will follow you in sea battles. 
 You can ALSO put them as bodyguards and give them weapons. They will be running around with you 
 in no time! Shooting and chopping!
  
  As for moving on islands, the game is just superb! No game of this kind has this system (such as 
 Sid Meier's Pirates!) . You can go in caves, kill bandits in the forest, plunder ships, conquer whole 
 forts, merchant from island to island or do a quest, and much, much more!! Millions of quests! It 
 has the right to be called the best RPG!! From merchanting a sword to someone from island to island 
 to searching big scary caves. Also you can capture forts in islands and make much money which is 
 hard, but fun. After you almost completely destroy the fort you invade it and cut down (or shoot) 
 the soldiers like dogs. But t hen you'll have to return the island.
  
  Just a few things of the abilities you have are listed above! It's just great!
  
  One thing 
 problemised me but I forgot about it really soon because I really liked the game! This game doesn't 
 have any connection with the movie. Even Jack Sparrow doesn't show up!
  
  Worth my time! Try it! You're gonna like it!
  
  Only thing that is not Terribly good is sadly 
 the graphics and the animation a bit. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Samagorny
Rating: 9.8
Date: Aug 16, 2006 9:58 am PT
Review:  Any one who thinks this game is bad can go to hell!
  The swashbuckerling, the shooting, the action is brill. The only bad point is that there is not 
 enought weapons or crew members so fighting always takes a little longer than you hope. Overall, 
 buy this game, as stealing pirate ships and plundering forts/villages never gets boring!
  
  You can always tweak the charater models and names to what ever you like, at the moment im Captain 
 Barbossa with the Black Pearl, oh and im invincible. If you want a pirate game, which has no conection 
 to Jonney Depp (Sad bit, but you could tweak your model to look like him?!) then this is the best 
 around. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShotGunBunny
Rating: 7.3
Date: Aug 15, 2006 8:25 am PT
Review:  I had played the original Seadogs prior to POTC and I liked it a lot!
  Now, I usually avoid those "movie games" but I was compelled to try POTC out, because Seadogs gets 
 boring eventually too, like any game.
  
  I noticed immediatly that the graphics were greatly improved over Seadogs'.
  Beautifull towns, 
 nothing like those boring boxes Seadogs had. The music was also good, but it wasn't as good as 
 Seadogs' in my opinion. Especially because it didn't manage to create a good mood, however the 
 graphics more then made up for that.
  
  So cosmetically this game is just fine, plain sweet when you're watching you vessel sail the seas 
 even!
  However the gameplay is sadly lacking. I always liked the notion of free swordfighting instead 
 of the beat 'em up style swordfighting in Seadogs, however, the clumsy controls will kill this 
 feature the moment it comes into play. Only by trying and trying can you manage to at least make 
 something out of it. 
  The trick is to block your opponent and hit him back on time. The enemies are simply too fast, 
 especially in the beginning, it's doable if it's 1 on 1, but you'll find that half the battles 
 are fought with you against a larger force.
  
  The ship combat is basicly the same as in Seadogs, you try to get up close to the enemy either 
 to fire at him or board him, no complaints here. Simple and sweet just like Seadogs was. The graphics 
 make it even better.
  
  The freedom is also a big aspect in this series, or at least you were free to do as you please 
 in Seadogs, it's the same here.
  
  The ultimate verdict is that is simply doesn't feel as nice as Seadogs does, in addition to it's 
 main new feature, the free roaming on land, suffering from horrible controls.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mpam
Rating: 4.7
Date: Jul 2, 2006 7:25 am PT
Review:  The theme is ok, the features of the game are quite numerous (sell/buy merchandise, fight on sea 
 - with either canon or your sword, quests, manage your crew...) , the graphics are good (except 
 for the badly missing 1280*1024 resolution) .
  But :
  - the controls are just awful, and some can't even be modified so I have to use a WASD set up for 
 the sea map on my French keyboard, which is very painful. There are no key (or at least I didn't 
 find them) to step on sides so even when you walk you kind of move like a boat, which makes fighting 
 even harder. Oh, and by the way, you move very very slowly even when you "run".
  - the sounds are pretty poor, all speeches are only written, not said.
  - maps are bad or non-existing 
 : you can't zoom out enough on the sea navigation map so at the beginning you move randomly around 
 until you find the islands where you want to go ; there is no map for the cities so you lose some 
 time walking around searching the key points in every city (tavern, shop, shipyard, etc) .
  - the melee fights are pretty difficult and in fact, at the beginning at least, you'll have some 
 difficulties on simple 1 vs 2 fights.
  
  I think this game could be decent if these little problems were solved, because the idea and the 
 story seem pretty good (even though didn't play very long) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Limonadi
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 18, 2006 12:56 pm PT
Review:  We have all kind of games these days the most games will be in the WO II but we haven't got alot 
 of Pirate games.
  
  This game is alot like GTA and Freelancer X2 ,the Threat you have an big freedom but the game's 
 missions are linear and often a bit dull.
  
  But enough of that why am i writing a review??? this late???
  well apperantly there is a fairly 
 big MOD community for this game.
  
  But we are reviewing the MAIN game first.
  This is one of the first movie based games where you aren't the main character as in the movie 
 no you play as nathiel Hawk a starting pirate, trader, anything you want him to be.
  
  Graficly this game is very nice it does have some short commings but the game looks awesome.
 
  As the sea looks respectively on dry land everything looks very cool every island has his own 
 weather so you'll encounter alot of different islands and weather paterns.
  
  The sound of the game is ok not very powerfull but it isn't bad either and if you really find the 
 sound aweful you do have mods for these issue's
  
  Gameplay is huge very huge sure there is an linear story line but you are NOT ordered to play this 
 story line you can just free roam around and explore and conquer larger ships.
  Trading is somewhat respective and it's very easy you just bring your cargo from A to B
  AS IT 
 SHOULD BE these are not scripted events so YOU choose your path of your choice how to deliver them.
 
  
  But this game is other than Sid meiers Pirates! you have a hard time to port yourself to this game 
 if you are an hardcore Pirates! fan.
  
  Overall this game is a Awesome game and any1 that loves a twist should really try this one.
  
 
  Now for the MOD
  
  It's called Build Mod
  And it adds alot of features and it works as an Patch altogheter
  It adds an model change feature 
 so you can Actually play as CAPTAIN Jack Sparrow
  wich is very pleasant there are alot of new thins it updates the textures and stuff ads an Blacksmith 
 ,Tailor Shop.
  BUT now your crew has an bigger interest in the mod as you'll have to contantly devide your plunder 
 or pay them an monthly salary.
  You need to buy supplies or else your crew will starve to death.
  You can chance your flag and 
 sails.
  
  So this is a BIG reason why not to download this mod.
  if you didn't like the original game.
  
  to get the mod goto
  
  www. piratesahoy. net and 
 click files you'll figure it out
  
  This was SoulThief with his second review 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jj3ysk
Rating: 6
Date: May 3, 2006 3:19 am PT
Review:  Sea Dogs 2 suffered from the Curse of Hollywood by naming itself Pirates of the Caribbean. It may 
 have still been a stinker of a game, but sticking that name on it sealed the coffin lid. While 
 it is a visually outstanding title, the poor gameplay mechanics and insane difficulty will turn 
 off all but the most dedicated players (I will keep plugging at this **** until I get back into 
 Oxbay!) . While I wont let this game do me in, I will have to suggest to just about everyone else 
 that you should stay far, far away from this. You will get nothing but frustration from this title. 
 That treasure map to the hidden booty only offered up a box full of sand. would have taken a simple 
 graphical upgrade of the original Pirates! game over this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wanderlust_85
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 20, 2006 9:56 am PT
Review:  One of the most versatile games that i have come across after a long time. its not just about going 
 around like a loose gun like in max payne or punisher where u nearly have to wipe out everything 
 u see.... time for some sword fighting with the pirates of the carribean. Its a role playing game 
 and as it goes on the player can delevope his charater the way he wants to
  
  like for instance one can spend experience points in improving the traits or the hero in a paricular 
 felied like sword fighting... aiming... cannons and a whole lot more. its graphic quality is awesome 
 taking into account its low specifications. its one of the games which glued me to the seat till 
 the very end and once the game is over i want to play it again this time improving my hero in diferent 
 aspects and finish the game and so on 
::::::

::::::
UserName: molivers7
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 18, 2006 2:17 pm PT
Review:  I really enjoyed my time playing this game. The graphics were high quality. I loved the scenery 
 and characters especially. There is some excellent sound work in the game as well. Off hand comments 
 from NPCs have their moments. Some of the music gets really repetitive. Really repetitive. Did 
 I mention it could be.... you get the point. The game play is pretty cool. There are main quests 
 to follow and side things "piratey" to mix up with the main story. The base to base combat is very 
 simplistic but the high seas is fun. If you know how to sail, a small ship can take down a much 
 larger ship. Multi ship control is all right but confusing at times. overall, I really thought 
 Bethesda did a good job on this game. i am looking forward to a sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Smintar
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jan 10, 2006 7:59 am PT
Review:  After getting into this I find alot missing. The ship battles are good grahpics are great for a 
 sea faring adventurer. The story line was ok ? could have been much better release with a few bugs. 
 I thought that the captains combat was and is better than Sid's Pirates. I do believe that this 
 game is better than Sids. The scale of the game was just right! UI was easy to get around and certainly 
 had more to do to make life easy.
  
  To travel on the sea and time wise was about right or the speed of the game. The island and what 
 we could get onto was beautiful. Which there could have been more. This site to me and some other 
 rate this game to low. To me its ahead of Sid's pirates. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChristianKiss
Rating: 4
Date: Feb 4, 2009 5:18 pm PT
Review:  I saw the screenshots and the game looked really good to me. But the problem is that the images 
 cannot tell you all the flaws Pirates of the Caribbean have.
  
  Like many others users say, this game has a lot of bugs, and there is no patch to correct them. 
 At the first moment, it's hard to learn what you have to do, and a FAQ download is eventually necessary. 
 
  
  If the developers really created this game inspired in the Pirates of the Caribbean film, then 
 where are all those cool combat moves? I was expecting a good and innovative combat system, but 
 the game only has a lazy mini-game when you engage in a combat.
  
  Nevertheless, I have to admit that this game has excellent graphics, which combined with the amazing 
 sound effects may build a nice atmosphere.
  
  Perhaps this game would be worth playing if the developers release an update to correct the annoying 
 glitches. Even a fan patch would be enough. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bdop4
Rating: 1.9
Date: Dec 21, 2005 12:16 pm PT
Review:  this game is horrible! I couldn't even finish the tutorial, because when it told me to equip something, 
 when I pressed the button, nothing happened! wait, now that I think about it, I NEVER FOUND THE 
 BUTTON!!!!! not only that, But, in addition, it has the worst game music i've ever, EVER, heard! 
 the only redeeming quality is that the graphics are surprisingly good. but that's it! this game 
 shamelessly makes a mockery of every computer game made since the dawn of time! FEW GAMES WILL 
 EVER BE THIS BAD!!!!! it is the most unbelievably bad game made since the invention of video gaming! 
 never, EVER play this game, even if it's a demo! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Scarface1987
Rating: 7.7
Date: Dec 6, 2005 11:05 pm PT
Review:  I want to make clear that this is essentially Sea Dog's 2 and has little or nothing to do with 
 the movie Priates of the Caribbean. However, if you want a down to earth, well rounded, ship/land 
 based naval game set in the sixteenth century; POTC will deliver. 
  
  You begin the game as an unknown freebooter with a small ship. You follow the onscreen script as 
 a sort of tutorial and learn how to move about on land, fight with a sword and pick up items. From 
 there you disembark from your ship with the choice of doing pretty much whatever you want. You 
 can choose to deliver cargo as a trader or fight for one of the five nationalities (six including 
 Pirate) , or anything else that can make you some "coin". 
  
  Much of the game play is similar to SD1 and the controls are almost identical. Contrary to what 
 some may say, I found the controls to be rather simple and easy to learn although bothersome to 
 change. Character relations with people grow throughout the game and your reputation will change 
 based on the choices you make. For example, if you deside to play the game in a cut-throat fashion, 
 killing all who step in your path and plundering every ship you see, you will begin to be feared 
 and this will have an effect on those you talk to. 
  
  The learning curve is steep but add's an element of realism to the game. You need to use your judgement 
 when traveling at first or risk being attacked by pirates. The graphics are astounding, showing 
 every ripple in the water and every drop of rain. Sunsets are moody and filled with emotion, it 
 is really something to see. Ships will now have a crew bustling around on deck although their animation 
 is somewhat blocky and pre-mapped (it all looks the same after awhile) . 
  
  The soundtrack is great for anyone whose a favorite of those long classical scores (i. e. Master 
 and Commander) and will change with your environment. You can now get ambushed in the city and 
 will have to defend yourself with sword, knife, pistol, or whatever else you happen to have. Items 
 are abundant throughout the game. Some give you skills, others for combat but you can view them 
 all in the (albeit clumsy) inventory menu. 
  
  Unfortunately the game has some downfalls. Character interaction sometimes seems a little rushed 
 and the game has some issues with bugs. The Bethesda website devoted to POTC is a joke and hasn't 
 been updated since the game shipped to stores and no official patch has been released to the public. 
 This is where my 3/5 star rating comes from. 
  
  However now for the best part of POTC, the mods. A number of websites have posted mods for downloading, 
 one in particular is called the "Build Mod". It incorporates an array of upgrades such as new ships, 
 wearable clothing, 100's of new quests and characters to interact with, and the ability to change 
 the character you play as (you can now be Johny Depp, Will Turner, or a ton of others) . Ontop of 
 this you can now berth ships at islands and feed your crew so they don't mutany. If only this mod 
 had been released with the game, then it deserves a 5 star rating. 
  
  Bottomline: POTC is a great addition to the Sea Dog's line but falls short of being as good as 
 it could've been. If only Bethesda could have released a good patch for the game or an expansion, 
 fortunately the player created mods have solved most of the problems and actually added some elements. 
 For fans of Sea Dogs, there is no other choice. 
  
  -Xantier M. Werner
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rawoo
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 28, 2005 3:13 pm PT
Review:  I am a fan of seadogs. I've had this game for quite awhile and finished it twice using the build 
 mod from piratesahoy. net. All the seadogs fans know that this game was suppose to be seadogs 2, 
 so I wont get into that story here. After all we should be happy because Akella didnt forget about 
 us fans who dont live in Russia, they are actually developing seadogs 3 which will be called age 
 of pirates for world-wide release. For more information on that, go to www. piratesahoy. net. 
  Now About Pirates of the Caribbean. I consider it as one of the best RPG game I've played, it's 
 right up there with the Morrowind. The quality of the software is actually very low mainly due 
 to the bugs, but this should not stop you from buying this game, because our wonderful online community 
 has created wonderful mods to fix bugs and enhance the gameplay. The amount of features they've 
 added is just so huge, I almost felt like I was playing "Pirates of the Caribbean 2". In the game 
 you are a captain of a ship. Just like any other RPG games, you can buy and sell items both for 
 yourself (armor & swords and etc.) and for trade (various goods usually in huge amount) . You can 
 also buy and sell ships, in fact you can make a living from looting and capturing enemy ships and 
 sell them in a port.
  When you are in a port, the game plays like an third person adventure game, you can engage in conversations 
 or even sword fights when things gets out of hand, but then you will chased by the guards (yes 
 of course every port has guards except for the pirate one) .
  When you are sailing, you can choose from a third person view (view the whole ship) and a first 
 person view (view on deck, you can move around on deck like a really captain on deck) .
  Every ship has hull health and sail health. Once the hull health reaches zero the ship is sunk, 
 and when the sail health reaches zero, the ship can not move. You can install various different 
 cannons on the ship. In a sea battle, normally your goal is to sink enemy ships or board it and 
 capture it. The game is set in a small group of islands in Caribbean sea. Among these islands there 
 are Spanish, English, French, and Dutch colonies, and of course there are the pirates who have 
 their own hideouts. In the game's main storyline you are a pirate serving the English Royal naval, 
 but when the main story is finished you can choose to serve different nations and do more quests 
 that way. Or you can simply just attack any ship you see and be a fearsome pirate. The game is 
 open ended, and there is fair amount of freedom just like in Morrowind. 
  The visual of the game is extremely gorgeous. Just look at the screenshots, they speak for themselves. 
 The game uses a 3D engine called the storm engine. The water and the weather effects never looked 
 so good. 
  The sound of the game is also pretty good, while there is nothing special about the sound effects. 
 But the in-game music is so sensational, it really brings out the feeling of sailing on the open 
 sea, the endless amount of space, and the total freedom. 
  The value of the game is actually quite poor straight out of the box. But the community mods really 
 add a lot of value to the game. 
  Overall I was quite disappointed by the quality of the original game. But the mod just add so much 
 to the game. To be honest I've never played through the original game straight out of the box, 
 not even once. I played through the game twice with the build mod installed. So if you have the 
 game already or planning to buy it, then go to www. piratesahoy. net and download the build 12 mod. 
 
  The score I gave is based on the original game + the build mod, because I believe this game deserves 
 a good score. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Everclearules
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 1, 2005 1:26 am PT
Review:  The ships are modeled beautifully, with folding and unfolding sails, and it's own crew walking 
 around on deck. Cities and towers and land are great as well, though In my opinion there was too 
 few. Characters were modeled great too. The graphics in general are wonderful (sharks and whales 
 swimming around is really cool too) , and the sound is great too. 
  
  Unfortunantly, there are a few flaws with quests and I could never really get far in the story, 
 so I can't really comment on that. 
  
  As would be expected, you are the captain of a ship, and up to three others (up to four in all) . 
 There are 7 classes of ships, and some classes have different ships within, and some ships have 
 differing stats, so there's plenty of ships to keep you entertained. Ship Battles are great fun, 
 though very easy once you get the hang of it. You have four types of ammo to shoot enemies with, 
 each with differing effects, though once again, when you get better there's no real need to use 
 anything but the bombs since one volley of them will take down all but the best of ships (which 
 require a second volley...) . Overall fun, but easy. 
  
  Ground combat has been said by many to be horrible, which I just don't understand. It's a bit simplistic, 
 yes, but so are many other games that have recieved great compliments. Basically you can shoot 
 a gun, block with your sword, and attack. It's not my favorite part of the game, but I still enjoyed 
 it. 
  
  Your character and his followers level up when quests are completed, as with just about all RPG's. 
 You get 2 points to spend on attributes, and 1 skill point to choose one of the many skills in 
 the game. Your followers get the same, though if one of they're stats are better than yours, your 
 stat is replaced with theirs (while they are still in your employ) . 
  
  For money (which all pirates are after) , you can trade, carry cargo for merchants, and escort people. 
 Which brings up another one of Pirates of the Caribbean's flaws since it is unbalanced. Carrying 
 cargo for merchants gets MUCH more money than anything else. 
  
  Pirates of the Caribbean is fun if you're just looking to spend a little time upgrading ships and 
 followers, then having a few battles, and then doing a few quests (if they work) . If you want something 
 beyond that, do not get this game as it will surely dissapoint you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: solide
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 19, 2005 5:38 pm PT
Review:  We have all kind of games these days the most games will be in the WO II but we haven't got alot 
 of Pirate games.
  
  This game is alot like GTA and Freelancer X2 ,the Threat you have an big freedom but the game's 
 missions are linear and often a bit dull.
  
  But enough of that why am i writing a review??? this late???
  well apperantly there is a fairly 
 big MOD community for this game.
  
  But we are reviewing the MAIN game first.
  This is one of the first movie based games where you aren't the main character as in the movie 
 no you play as nathiel Hawk a starting pirate, trader, anything you want him to be.
  
  Graficly this game is very nice it does have some short commings but the game looks awesome.
 
  As the sea looks respectively on dry land everything looks very cool every island has his own 
 weather so you'll encounter alot of different islands and weather paterns.
  
  The sound of the game is ok not very powerfull but it isn't bad either and if you really find the 
 sound aweful you do have mods for these issue's
  
  Gameplay is huge very huge sure there is an linear story line but you are NOT ordered to play this 
 story line you can just free roam around and explore and conquer larger ships.
  Trading is somewhat respective and it's very easy you just bring your cargo from A to B
  AS IT 
 SHOULD BE these are not scripted events so YOU choose your path of your choice how to deliver them.
 
  
  But this game is other than Sid meiers Pirates! you have a hard time to port yourself to this game 
 if you are an hardcore Pirates! fan.
  
  Overall this game is a Awesome game and any1 that loves a twist should really try this one.
  
 
  Now for the MOD
  
  It's called Build Mod 
  And it adds alot of features and it works as an Patch altogheter
  It adds an model change feature 
 so you can Actually play as CAPTAIN Jack Sparrow
  wich is very pleasant there are alot of new thins it updates the textures and stuff ads an Blacksmith 
 ,Tailor Shop.
  BUT now your crew has an bigger interest in the mod as you'll have to contantly devide your plunder 
 or pay them an monthly salary.
  You need to buy supplies or else your crew will starve to death.
  You can chance your flag and 
 sails.
  
  So this is a BIG reason why not to download this mod.
  if you didn't like the original game.
  
  to get the mod goto
  
  www. piratesahoy. net and 
 click files you'll figure it out
  
  This was SoulThief with his second review
  
  ----------------END  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: procne
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 31, 2005 11:30 pm PT
Review:  After reading all the rave on this game, I decided to go out and buy it. No regrets! It has a high 
 replay value because it is different every time around but the missions are pretty much the same. 
 If you're the kind who likes to build your character as the game goes on, you'll like this game. 
 Basically this game is about trying to find your long-lost family by battling different pirates 
 and taking over their ships and gold. You'll also try to win different damsels' hearts by dancing 
 with them and giving them gifts. Other than that, the graphics are lovely, especially on a computer 
 like Alienware. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GSHelpBoy
Rating: 5.5
Date: Oct 22, 2003 3:39 pm PT
Review:  As many other Sea Dog fans I had big expected this game PotC to be a sequel to Sea Dogs. Well it 
 turned out to suck. I was very diappointed when I learned that this game was to follow the story 
 of the movie which in my opinion was a poor movie.
  Anyway early statements promised 6 campaigns , and you could choose between a male and female captain 
 and some form for multi player stuff.
  To my big disappointment they skipped this and made a whole new story. : (
  They promised the 
 same game as Sea Dogs but an enhanced version with new features.
  So I bought the game and eagerly installed it and started to play. The 1st thing I noticed was 
 that you couldn't choose the gender.. and as the game went on.. I'm ignoring the bugs I discovered 
 that it was only 1 campaign.
  
  I sendt a mail to Betsheda asking why they had done these changes and to my amazement they replied.
 
  
  They said that the features which I mentioned above was never discussed and never meant to be included 
 in the game. 
  
  I answered but in the early stage in the game development they had several screen shoots which 
 aren't available anymore showed several things that isn't in the game.
  
  I got a reply on that too. They managed to state that I was wrong and there's was no place on the 
 web which could have given me this kinda information.
  
  They lost my faith when they managed to break their promises. Hopefully there'll be some mods restoring 
 my faith. The game has a great potential, but it's not used. Only based on a stupid movie which 
 i even didn't like.
  If I'd know all this before I bought the game, I'd never bought it and now I can't refund it. : (
 
  
  disgruntled buyer
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Royas
Rating: 3.6
Date: Feb 16, 2009 1:27 pm PT
Review:  I really wanted to like this game. I have been excited to have this game since it was first announced. 
 I was really looking forward to a fun RPG experience looting, pillaging and burning. I was so pleased 
 that the release of this game coincided with my birthday, so I was able to put it on my list of 
 wishes. I specifically asked for this from my wife, in fact, and she was good enough to get it 
 for me. God, I'm so sorry I asked for this poor, sorry excuse for a game.
  
  On the plus side, the graphics are very nice, very smooth and colorful. The sound is good and appropriate, 
 though I don't much care for the soundtrack. That's mostly an opinion thing, though, and for all 
 that, the quality of the soundtrack is good, easily heard without overwhelming.
  
  But the gameplay! Bugs galore, combined with poorly thought out control schemes and a manual that 
 is notably poor even in this day and age of lousy game instructions make it near impossible for 
 me to even get started in this game. The game constantly gets bogged down, stopping me cold on 
 a scene, unable to leave the scene to continue the game. This is especially noticable when boarding 
 other vessels. Once the boarding action is complete, I have been unable to find a way to leave 
 the vessels, or loot the vessel and get back to sailing. And as I said, the manual is particularly 
 terrible, very light on any specifics and giving almost no clue on how to actually DO anything. 
 It tells you that you CAN do something, but doesn't describe HOW!
  
  Add to all this that there is no official forum on either the Bethsoft or the Akella sites. And 
 that the Bethsoft faqs, while the do address some gameplay issues, are hardly complete.
  
  Like I said, I wanted to like this game. But I can't like a game when bugs keep me from playing 
 it, and when the publisher and developer both seem to have no interest in providing the community 
 with support. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jpaisley24
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 14, 2003 10:28 am PT
Review:  This is a difficult game to review. It has a TON of bugs. Let's face it, it was released as an 
 incomplete, untested game. That much is clear. But somehow, I still find myself addicted to it 
 and coming back for more. The game is gorgeous, especially the 3rd person views at sea. The sea 
 battles are also very entertaining. The sword battles are OK, but could have been better. This 
 game could have been fantastic, but has major problems:
  
  1) The interface sucks - some cross between console and PC. Get ready to use arrow keys and the 
 spacebar, instead of the mouse. And the font is enormous!
  2) As mentioned above, there are several bugs I've come across, and several more I've read about 
 on other forums. There is the goods delivery bug, where a store owner will ask you to deliver goods 
 to another island, and then once you get to that island, the quest can't be completed. This only 
 happens sometimes, but when it happens it's annoying. I've also gotten locked inside a house on 
 an island... I sat in there for a while waiting for something to happen, and then the game freezes. 
 There's more, but I waste your time.
  3) The game crashes often to desktop, stating there was an engine. exe error.
  
  So the message 
 is:
  I do enjoy playing this game despite its problems. Although, if I knew what I know now, I would 
 not have spent $50 on an unfinished game. Here's to hoping that they put out a very good patch 
 for this one. And if you haven't bought this yet, I'd wait to see if the patch comes out, or the 
 price drops to about $30. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: csm101
Rating: 7.1
Date: Jul 9, 2003 9:43 pm PT
Review:  As a big fan of the original Sea Dogs game, I had eagerly been awaiting Sea Dogs 2. When I heard 
 that SD2 had been changed into PoTC due to Disney's involvement, I was disappointed. When game 
 previews indicated the only thing changed was the name, I was again overjoyed. Sadly though, that 
 is not true. SD2's promised 6 campaigns were cut down to just 1 in order to more closely resemble 
 the movie. And the game is NOT open-ended. Once you finish the single (English) campaign, that's 
 it. The game ends. Not a lot of replayability there. 
  The graphics and sound are very good though, and the Sea Dogs online community has found the game 
 to be very moddable, and are hard at work returning the game to what it should have been in the 
 first place. Already they've made huge improvements. So don't give up the ship yet mateys; there's 
 still hope! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Eccentric
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jul 9, 2003 7:27 pm PT
Review:  The score of 7.9 is deceiving. Although I can't, in good conscience, give the game a higher rating 
 because of its numerous problems, if I were to rate this game based on "fun-factor" alone, it would 
 be getting around a 9.5.
  
  If you're at all interested in games about pirates, do yourself a favor and pick this up. It has 
 tons and tons of problems, admittedly, and at times it can be boring. It has me hooked, though. 
 I've been playing as soon as I get home from work until I go to bed since I got the game, but last 
 night I was so engrossed that I just skipped the whole "going to bed" thing and played straight 
 through till it was time to leave for work again. I don't regret it.
  
  If you can look past the numerous bugs and the boring task of running around deserted islands, 
 you'll absolutely love this game. If you like pirates, you'll absolutely love this game. If you're 
 one of those gamers that starts moaning about wanting to return the game as soon as you find something 
 you don't like, Pirates will probably drive you insane.
  
  One more note: Don't judge the game until after you've finished your first real quest. I was highly 
 dissapointed with the game until I actually got a good ways into my first mission. I remember actually 
 getting giddy and thinking, "Oh man! This is so cool!" as I realized what I was about to do for 
 the mission. This game is filled with moments like that, and in my opinion, they more than make 
 up for the moments where I yawn and wish I didn't have to run on foot all the way from one side 
 of the island to the other. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: warpgiga
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jul 9, 2003 6:57 pm PT
Review:  This games interface stinks, as mentioned in the GS review, it neither a good pc or console interface, 
 it smells of plain ol' bad GUI.
  
  I spend more than a minute trying to grab a sword lying right in front of me.
  However I am sure 
 the game has many fun and enjoyable moments, I was completely in dispear when I read that the trading 
 system is static!!
  
  As an old "Sid Meier's Pirates!" I just loved sailing around and looking for cheap places to buy 
 tobacco, and then find a place to sell at best price..
  - I mean that's what it was all about, wasn't it??? Looting, stashing and so forth...
  
  I 
 think it can be safely (although rudely) concluded that this game had to be released because of 
 the imminent release of the motion picture of the same name... - What a shame... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dryden555
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 9, 2003 5:51 am PT
Review:  The PC interface is awkward at best. You can assign some of the keys to your preference but not 
 all of them. More importantly you can't assign the mouse and keyboard to work like a standard FPS, 
 so your main character has to swivel in place like a resident evil-type game. 
  
  The game looks good and offers plenty of open-ended gameplay. You can trade goods, explore dungeons, 
 perform simple random quests, or ship battles. There are short load times within the cities even 
 though a PC could load the whole city -- yet another indicator that the PC version is really a 
 port of the Xbox version and not the other way around. When looking around with mouse-look, there 
 isn't a mouse-smoothing option, so the screen will jitter about more than you typically see in 
 a PC game. There really needs to be a patch. 
  
  For those who are thinking of buying, be warned that the game start out hard -- your character 
 has very low stats in everything. You have to spend some time to see the better parts of the game. 
 
  
  I should add that the dungeon levels and on-land fighting are both a bit disappointing. The game 
 feels rushed and the lack of any patch suggests that Akella isn't bothering to fix any of the bugs 
 and glitches. Unfortunately, I would suggest avoiding this game entirely. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Taurus
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 8, 2003 8:00 pm PT
Review:  To get to the point Pirates of the Carribean is a great game. The controls were horrible when the 
 game just starts, but that is easily fixable. I made my controls an almost duplicate of Morrowinds. 
 Anyway, it is kinda hard to get into it but once your get rolling it is a great game that you can't 
 put down. The cutscenes looked great but when you were playing the graphics were nothing special. 
 The sound was not astonishing. It fit the game very well though. The interfaces are easy to read 
 and u should have no problem when it come to them. Knowing what to do, mission wise, in the only 
 problem. Have fun! To sum it all up, you should buy Pirates if u are looking for an enjoyable expirience. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WildbucingBill
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 7, 2003 2:01 pm PT
Review:  It took a little getting into, but this IS the game I was looking forward to after playing the 
 original Sea Dogs. The graphics are nicely upgraded, and the expansion of land based play by adding 
 dungeons, jungles, etc are a nice addition. The towns are also a bit more fleshed out than in the 
 original. They are more like Morrowind in this respect, but not as elabrate or complex. The addition 
 of "fast travel" in towns is great. Instead of walking all over the town to get to the shipyard, 
 tavern, store, docks, etc, simply select "fast travel" and pick your location. It really saves a lot 
 of time and trouble trying to walk all over town trying to find your way. The dungeons and other 
 areas in towns are not available in fast travel ,so the adventure of interacting with NPC's and 
 trying to find cool stuff and secret places is still there. The game play is very similar to Sea 
 Dogs, (buy, sell, trade, hire, fire crews, attack and defend against other ships, quests for govenors) , 
 but with the addition of land based play (like a lesser Morrowind) , with dungeons and other areas 
 where you must fight against skeleton pirates and other foes. These areas allow you to find gold, 
 better weapons, pirate type booty, as well as increasing your skill levels. I have seen some other 
 reviews complaining of the combat aspects of this game. I must say, right at first, I thought the 
 same thing, but after a little practice (and remapping of the keys) in a dungeon on a bunch of 
 skeleton pirates, I got the hang of it and it is really quite fun. Keep in mind young gamers, this 
 is not Unreal or Doom. This is a quest type game, not a first person shoot-em up. Another cool 
 addition are the storms you encounter while out at sea. Sea travel, while at first seeming too 
 basic, is a lot like Sea Dogs, only with more animated type graphics. The meat of sea fairing is 
 in battle. There are 2 modes, arcade (dumbed down) and realistic (which is like the original Sea 
 Dogs) but with a more involvment and much better graphics. Bottom line is if you liked the original 
 Sea Dogs or Sid Miers Pirates, and want to lightly role play as a pirate, you will love this game. 
 If you are looking for a hard core role player, or a first person shooter, then you may not care 
 for it. Try it with an open mind, and you may surprise yourself that is is quite a good game and 
 a lot of fun. 
  FYI- My system is a P4 2.53 ghz, 512mb, Geoforce Ti4600 graphics card, 21 inch monitor. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: digggd
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 3, 2003 5:44 am PT
Review:  This is a great/fun game if your PC can handle it. I am lucky to have a P4 2 GHZ, GeForce 4 Ti 
 4600, and 1.5 GB DDR RAM. This game has excellent graphics and sound and the gameplay is pretty 
 good once you get use to the very strange controls. You can always change them to suite you better. 
 I have only played it for about 3 hours, but it is enough tell that this is going to be a great 
 game that will keep me interested for a good long while. The game is addictive. Still not the best 
 graphics I have seen, but they are very good. THe sound is very good, could have used better music 
 though, hated it so ended up turning the music off. Go and grab this one, after you get use to 
 the quirky controls and everything else, then you will be saying SHIVER ME TIMBERS what a great 
 game!!! :p 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
