-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Planescape: Torment
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/rpg/planescapetorment/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec 21, 1999
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 9
Critic Score: 9.1, 40 Review (s)
User Score: 9.3, 2,599 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Interplay
Developer: Black Isle Studios
Genre: Role-Playing
Date:     Nov 30, 1999
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
It's clearly the best traditional computer role-playing game of the year and is bound to be an all-time 
 favorite for many of its inevitable fans. 

 Torment is a traditional role-playing game with an uncommonly detailed story and first-rate graphics 
 and sound. It's set in the complex and interesting Advanced Dungeons &amp; Dragons universe of 
 Planescape, which is a patchwork of wildly different dimensions surrounding a sprawling city that 
 connects them together. In Torment, you play as a nameless character who cannot die and cannot 
 remember his past, and in uncovering his origin, you'll experience one of the year's most fascinating 
 games.  

 Torment uses the same graphics engine as Baldur's Gate and will consequently seem immediately familiar 
 to fans of the best-selling 1998 role-playing game. However, Torment's top-down isometric perspective 
 is much closer to the ground than in Baldur's Gate, which means all the characters in Torment appear 
 quite large onscreen. Each character is highly detailed, carefully animated, and cleverly designed 
 above all else. Torment abandons the high-fantasy styling of most RPGs and instead uses the Planescape 
 license's unique interpretation of familiar fantasy archetypes, which lends the game a wholly original 
 appearance that defies expectations for fantasy and science fiction artwork. Even Torment's protagonist, 
 who is heavily scarred, entirely tattooed, and dressed in bones and animal hides, seems nothing 
 like the usual role-playing game hero.  

 Torment's scenery is more intricately detailed than the scenery in Baldur's Gate because of the 
 close perspective, and much like its characters, the scenery looks good and looks different from 
 what you're used to. The game has no pointless spans of wilderness; each area is carefully designed, 
 and most areas are densely populated. The jutting blade-like architecture of the game's urban settings 
 and the rough-hewn, almost alien tangle of its catacombs give Torment a well-defined, highly distinctive 
 appearance, while the game's atmospheric soundtrack, good sound effects, and sparse but high-quality 
 voice acting all help maintain Torment's style. The game has a consistently cold look that can 
 even be unsettling and uncomfortable at times, but Torment's bleak environments seem to work intentionally 
 to motivate the protagonist's desire to escape from the oppressive, claustrophobic confines of 
 the city of Sigil. In spite of its harsh scenery, at times Torment is colorful and impressive looking, 
 mainly because of its often-spectacular special effects. Powerful magic spells cause the screen 
 to go dim and erupt in ghostly energy, which shakes and rattles the screen. Even the game's most 
 minor incantations feature impressive effects and animations, although some of the more elaborate 
 effects tend to make the game slow down.  

 The Baldur's Gate engine has other limitations, some of which are exclusively aesthetic, and some 
 of which have a slightly adverse effect on Torment's gameplay. However, as in Baldur's Gate, Torment 
 players will likely be quick to dismiss or disregard any such problems, like the limited screen 
 resolution, bad character pathfinding, and the unattractive real-time-strategy-style fog of war 
 shroud that covers each new area you visit. To allow for Torment's bigger characters, most of the 
 game's interface is invisible until you right-click to bring up a circular pop-up window that lets 
 you use items, cast spells, use special abilities, and so forth. Unfortunately, while the hidden 
 interface does free up most of the screen, it is neither compact nor intuitive - you'll spend a 
 lot of time fumbling for its little unmarked buttons or otherwise dragging it aside so you can 
 see what's happening once you bring it up. At least the game automatically pauses whenever the 
 interface is active, so you can figure it out at your leisure. Even though most of Torment's interface 
 isn't onscreen most of the time, you'll find that the game's close-up perspective nevertheless 
 has particular problems. There are virtually no ranged weapons in the game, if only because there's 
 so little relative distance from one end of the screen to the other. Similarly, several of the 
 game's powerful spells have a bad tendency to be just as dangerous to the caster, because by the 
 time the enemy is targeted and the spell is uttered, that enemy has already closed the distance 
 with the caster, who invariably suffers from his own magical attack. Torment also suffers from 
 the game's unrefined menu screens and the unavoidably slow scrolling speed of its extensive dialogue, 
 which, much like the interface, you will train yourself to ignore.  

 You will ignore Torment's technical problems because it's such a good game. Specifically, it's a 
 long and involving game with an original plot, well-written, descriptive dialogue, and likable 
 characters. It's fortunate that Torment's dialogue reads well, because there's a lot of it to read; 
 although the game's graphics are evocative and often beautiful, the game's most vivid events are 
 actually written out rather than portrayed onscreen. You might wish the game had a more frequent 
 tendency to show-not-tell; however, its combination of great graphics and writing is generally 
 very effective. As such, even though you'll be reading text half the time, you'll rarely feel as 
 if the dialogue interferes with the game's surprisingly quick pacing.  

 That's mainly because the dialogue is actually one of the best parts of Torment, since it's one 
 of the few role-playing games to ever make good on the promise of letting you play your character 
 however you prefer. Torment's dialogue often lets you choose to make promises, bluff, or play dumb; 
 the game lets you perceive small details if your character is intelligent, understand philosophical 
 implications if he's wise, and intimidate or charm if he's strong or charismatic. Your character's 
 moral alignment and his affiliation with Sigil's different factions are openly flexible and have 
 a noticeable impact on the course of the game. Similarly, your character can readily switch between 
 fighter, thief, and magic-user classes and can rapidly advance to a high level of proficiency in 
 any and all of these, which is justified within the game as not so much an acquiring of new skills 
 as a remembrance of latent centuries-old talents. In addition, your character's perverse incapacity 
 to permanently die also helps maintain Torment's pacing by discouraging you from frequently reloading 
 your saved games, although the game never seems easy or trivial in spite of the hero's immortality. 

 Yet it's easy to apologize for Torment's many programming flaws, which cause the game to become 
 excruciatingly slow at times and some of its dozens of quests to become unsolvable on occasion. 
 It's true that bugs in computer role-playing games seem almost as conventional as spells and hit 
 points. Fortunately, Torment's aren't so drastic that they actually ruin any single part of the 
 game. Nevertheless, you'll probably experience several glitches either in performance or in quest 
 scripting that make portions of the game unnecessarily frustrating, especially in light of Torment's 
 generally excellent quality.  

 In fact, it's evidence of Torment's impressive achievement that its problems, which would be detrimental 
 to most any other game, seem so negligible. It's clearly the best traditional computer role-playing 
 game of the year and is bound to be an all-time favorite for many of its inevitable fans. That's 
 because it's a great-looking game that's lengthy but never boring, and it begs to be played through 
 more than once, just as its unique hero and his story promise not to be forgotten.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (91 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: weedman1985
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 10, 2009 1:59 pm PT
Review:  Perhaps the best way to describe this game is by comparing it to a good book. Although unlike a 
 book, which is a complete product that cannot be changed, you can decide how the story unfolds.
 
  
  Mystery is everywhere in this game, you are surrounded by a shroud of uncertainty from the moment 
 you wake up in the morgue and many of them will never be explained or solved. You play as "The 
 nameless one" , A man who for some reason cannot die. As you travel through the game world and 
 its fascinating places, where you find more details about your past and how you became immortal, 
 you will take part in the most brilliantly written dialogues and side quests ever created in gaming 
 history. The game`s true strength is its mind boggling story and setting. The "world" is described 
 as a multiverse, a place where reality can be created by just thinking about it. Worlds can be 
 shaped and destroyed by the power of a mans thought - The question is of course; how would this 
 universe exist? what kind of laws are rules will such a place have?
  
  You begin the adventure in the "city of doors" - the center of the multiverse. Where any number 
 of portals to different universes or locations exist, and the key to those portals can be anything 
 from holding a certain item in your hand, to a poem or a certain feeling.
  Thus making the game world seem much bigger than it is presented in any other game, adding one 
 more layer to the very immersive and beautifully written plot.
  
  There is not much more i can say that hasn't been said before, except that this game is a must 
 have for every true RPG fan out there.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sequekhan
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 16, 2009 10:13 pm PT
Review:  Torment plunges you into the world of the Nameless One, an apt if rather ambiguous label given 
 to the main character of the game. Much like Baldur's Gate and Icewind Dale, it is a role-playing 
 game involving point-and-click controls, levelling up to improve your skills, and a limited selection 
 of classes to choose from (which will not be apparent when you first begin playing) .
  
  You awake on a slab in a mortuary, and while the Nameless One may look dead, with grey skin and 
 hollow cheeks (not to mention various other unsightly features) he is in fact quite alive. Straight 
 away you can tell there is something special about this game - a break from the traditional beginnings 
 of most role-playing games and literally dripping with mystery enough to arouse the curiosity of 
 just about anyone that's seen the opening FMV sequence.
  
  If that wasn't enough, then a floating skull appears and starts to talk to you better than most 
 people do that approach you in the street.
  
  All characters that you encounter (that talk) have excellent voice acting. The environments are 
 unique. Events like the city giving birth to a new alley (I seriously fell off my chair at this, 
 the first time I saw it) will leave you gaping like a fish. The character interactions (even when 
 your party isn't doing anything) rival the best books you've ever read. Just about all the playable 
 characters are hiding something - to learn more about them, you often have to have a certain level 
 of intelligence. Which makes sense. Some characters take a great deal of skill to keep in your 
 party, as they may not like others in your group.
  
  Battles can sometimes be challenging, but they are fun for the most part. It helps that you're 
 immortal, so you just keep waking up again after you 'die', plus you have something akin to auto-regeneration, 
 which is governed by how high your constitution is. There are a heap of quests to keep you busy, 
 though experienced players may find the game too short. My personal favourites are the riddles 
 that crop up here and there. A good test of your own intelligence, if you try not to cheat.
  
  In-game music is more mellow than other games of the genre, but stands up well and doesn't 
 get irritating. The only sound effects that might get annoying are those accompanying critical 
 hits - if you start to get too many then you're either gonna groan or laugh or cry. There is an 
 impressive array of spells too - some even have movie cut-scenes.
  
  In the end, enjoy the game for what it is - a daring venture into hitherto unexplored realms for 
 role-playing games, a masterpiece in any era ... perhaps even a new obsession. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brendan-Potshot
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 21, 2009 4:49 am PT
Review:  To me an RPG is all about the story, get this wrong and all you're left with is a mechanism for 
 making your experience number bigger and in turn making other numbers bigger until you reach the 
 end or get bored.
  
  There are many epic adventures out there: Baldur's Gate, the Final Fantasies, Ultima (though perhaps 
 not number 9) and so forth. What makes this one shine is the cast and the manner in which the story 
 unfolds.
  
  It's hard to give praise without referring to individual moments, and to discuss those would deny 
 the experience to those yet to encounter them; I can at least say that the relationships between 
 the characters aren't always quite as they at first appear; and that discovering the back stories 
 those who follow you is very rewarding, especially Ignus and of course the Nameless one himself.
 
  
  Of course none of these characters would be quite so interesting if it weren't for the canvas on 
 which they are painted; Sigil, and indeed the planes and the beliefs which sustain their very existence 
 are well fleshed out, from creating someone through convincing enough people that he exists, to 
 watching an entire town being torn from it's home plane due to the actions of its residents.
  
  The rest I leave for you to discover, and I recommend you do so with haste. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ryu_San
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 27, 2008 9:23 am PT
Review:  Imagine a place of infinite possibilities, where metaphor is reality and reality metaphor, a universe 
 where belief molds the physical realm and where a single thought can *actually* change things 
 Welcome to "Planescape". It is hard to better describe the "Planescape" universe (actually, it's 
 a multiverse, but we'll get to that) , one of the famous "Dungeons and Dragons" realms. At first 
 glance, it might seem like a weird, freaky, half concocted world that pales in comparison with 
 its renowned sibling, "Forgotten Realms", but that would be a mistake: "Planescape" is infinitely 
 more complex, thought-provoking and original than the "Tolkienesque" high-fantasy spin-off of "Forgotten 
 Realms". Oh, and it makes the perfect background for a great RPG.
  
  It starts off with a simple idea: what if anyone could change, with will power alone, the universe? 
 How would *that* look like? What rules and laws, of social and physical nature would exist? How 
 would balance be obtained? Who would rule such a world and how? As you can see, the premise alone 
 opens a whole universe of philosophical questions, which is a sign of the inherent complexity of 
 "Planescape". Besides the well built background, the story that unveils during the course of "Torment", 
 written by Chris Avellone (of "Fallout 2", "Icewind Dale" and "Sith Lords" fame) , is equally profound 
 and intellectually stimulating. Not only that, it contains some of the most unpredictable and memorable 
 twists ever to grace a videogame. And I do mean memorable.
  
  The narrative starts in a mortuary, where the main character, the "Nameless One" lies unconscious 
 and completely amnesiac. Unsure of why he lies in a mortuary he starts to delve to into the "Hive" 
 (the center of the multiverse) in search for clues about his past. He learns that he is, by some 
 unknown reason, Immortal, a curse which he cannot fathom escape, even after millennia of trying. 
 He then embarks on a journey to revive his memories, in order to understand the "why" and the "how" 
 of his undying condition. He will meet many adversaries and companions that will help him regain 
 knowledge of the multiverse and of his previous "incarnations": different personas molded by different 
 memories of the same man. In the end of his quest, lies a question: "What could change the nature 
 of a man?" The answer is the key to the game's plot. To find it, you will learn about the whole 
 of "Planescape", its many planes of existence (hence the name "multiverse") , its societies, cultures, 
 philosophies and religions, and you will challenge powers greater than any mortal, such as Angels, 
 Gods, and even Death.
  
  The script is superbly well written. Its dialogues are witty, complex, intellectually stimulating 
 and also have a unique feel, thanks to the use of a language specifically conceived for the game 
 that incorporates 17th century English (complete with proper slang) . The literary dimension is 
 used to its fullest: many actions, situations and memories are only described via text; it's great 
 text, mind you, that allows your imagination to capture the full magnificence of the game's environments. 
 However, it is a shame that certain scenes don't make use of an audio-visual language, such as 
 cut-scenes, or even some sort of controlled artwork slideshow coupled with soundtrack, in order 
 to enhance the sensorial dimension of the game's literary nature. Because of this, "Torment" is 
 a bit like an interactive book, which might displease the more trigger-happy gamers. On the good 
 side of things, the narrative is truly interactive. Whether you want to be evil, killing all those 
 whose stand in your way, or if you wish to make up to all the evil the Nameless One's previous 
 incarnations have caused in the past, it's your choice. Your character's alignment (following D&D's 
 classic divisions: Chaotic or Lawful, Neutral, Good or Evil) , is entirely determined by your actions 
 in the game. Unfortunately, there aren't different endings, just many different paths to achieve 
 the same goals, which for a 1999 game was more than enough to warrant the revolutionary status 
 ("KotOR", "Torment's" spiritual follower, would only surface in 2003) .
  
  Aesthetically it is also a marvelous game, even if it still uses "Baldur's Gate" dated 2D (Infinity) 
 Engine. Recreating the complexity of the "Planescape" was definitely a challenge for the Art Department, 
 but it paid off: the environments are dark, gloomy and dirty, meshing dark fantasy visuals, an 
 industrial-revolution twist and some "Burtonesque" imagery (flying skulls anyone?) , all of which 
 give the visuals that edgy and freaky dimension. However, when the player leaves the center of 
 the multiverse, the scenarios seem to lose quality, lacking the overall attention to detail of 
 the previous backgrounds. It's a shame, because it makes the exploration of the multiverse less 
 awe-inspiring then what you'd expect, considering the descriptions you'll read throughout the game. 
 The sound has an equally broad mix of flavors; from beautifully orchestrated synthesizer melodies, 
 to tribal rhythms, every sound blends perfectly with the visuals, adding one more layer to the 
 uniqueness of the "Planescape" setting.
  
  Notice how I haven't even touched the matter of gameplay? Can you guess why? Yes, it's because 
 the RPG "action" elements in "Torment" aren't exactly as memorable as the rest of the game. They 
 are, for the most part, completely forgettable. Basically, it plays out as a simplistic clone of 
 "Baldur's Gate", e. g. classical turn-based AD&D rule-oriented gameplay. It's dull, uninteresting, 
 and it isn't even tactical or challenging it does encourage grinding and looting, which I, myself, 
 would regard as downright wrong. On the good side, the immensity of side-quests helps the gameplay 
 stay somewhat fresh and keep pace, making action all the more secondary in comparison to the game's 
 other facets.
  
  If you can forget about the slumber-inspiring gameplay (and believe me, you will) , you'll find 
 out that "Torment" is so grandiose, profound and unique, that you'll be left without words to describe 
 it. Its stories, ideas and characters we'll linger in your memory, challenging your heart and mind 
 to fully understand the magnificence of the game's experiences making you want to go back to the 
 "Planescape" universe time and time again. Whether Chris Avellone knew it or not, "Torment" was 
 his undying attempt at immortality through art. It succeeded. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brownba3
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 7, 2008 12:41 pm PT
Review:  This was a fun game. I was pleasently surprised - I bought this to take up the time before Fallout 
 3 came out. Due to its age, there are some issues - It is approximately 10 plus years old so the 
 visuals and graphics are a little dated. Controls were a little clunky and took some getting used 
 to but was a very fun game with lots of possibilities. It is easy to see why it won all of its 
 awards. An enjoyable blast from the past. Lots of help out there for those with questions. Interesting 
 that it has kept it's value all of these years. The second game on the other games (Soulbringer) 
 is not really worth the effort with lots of bugs and issues. Torment is a classic and worthwhile 
 old school game that will keep you occupied and chuckling for hours... days. Offbeat humor, an interesting 
 concept and great execution 
::::::

::::::
UserName: victorlau
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 8, 2008 5:53 pm PT
Review:  Planescape: Torment is one of my favorite RPGs of all time. Planescape is much better than the 
 other D&D games based on its game engine; Icewind Dale series of games are too difficult. The difficulty 
 of Planescape is just right. Almost all new RPGs today are multiplayer or MMO. I would prefer to 
 play by myself as I don't have hours to play games every night. I am also against paying subscription 
 fees. I think good RPGs should have a plot and a definite ending.
  
  Since I last played this game in 2001, I have yet to play another RPG that I have enjoyed as much 
 as I enjoyed Planescape.
  
  As I have gotten older I don't have as much time to play games; yet I still have very fond memories 
 of this game, its characters and the spectacular ending when the mystery of the main character 
 is revealed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dagamemonkey
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 8, 2008 2:03 pm PT
Review:  Planescape: Torment is a superb Baldur's Gate-esque RPG that is set in a very dark and macabre 
 atmosphere. You play as a living corpse who must travel through this dark world seeking answers 
 to his identity and to find answers to unlock his past.
  
  Torment's gameplay is identical to Baldur's Gate in just about every way with the exception of 
 setting, characters, and story. While most of the game's strength lies in its story and atmosphere 
 it also features a decent combat system even though it's kind of cumbersome from time to time. 
 Despite that the system works, and over time you will get used to it. As I mentioned the story 
 is quite dark, and even disturbing to a point because of some of the content pertaining to death 
 and necromancy. Even though the story is very grisly it is also very engrossing; your character 
 is trying to find his identity and his past, and he must do it by going through some mysterious 
 characters and crawling through a twisted and dark land. Like Baldur's Gate, as you travel through 
 the game world you come across people who can join your party. There are the standard mages, warriors, 
 and archers, but one party member in particular starts with you from the very beginning and he 
 stands out. He's a talking and floating skull with eyeballs, and he gives your character advice 
 in the early going. His name is Morte, and he was just such a unique addition to this game that 
 I had to mention him. You have to seek out recruit-able characters by exploring and possibly going 
 through a dialogue with them to open the option. And while on the subject of dialogue, a good RPG 
 needs to have some open-endness in how quests are completed and such, and Torment is the perfect 
 example of this. It offers often many choices on how to proceed in getting information or cooperation, 
 whether it be by diplomacy or threats. And sometimes you will encounter a person who will demand 
 money, and you have the choice to fork it over, fight them, or flee. The freedom to act in sticky 
 situations is very cool, and it's fun to see how decisions you make pan out whether for good or 
 bad. And often there are dialogue choices that are labeled as "Bluff: I'm going to kill you" or 
 "Truth: I'm going to kill you". The whole assortment of choices are really a lot of fun to use, 
 and sometimes you had better be ready to accept the consequences of your selected choice. The game 
 generally works on a "you scratch my back, I'll scratch yours" basis, meaning simply you do something 
 for the person with the information, and once you complete that then you'll get what you want from 
 them. A few instances may allow you to make a threat and the person will spill his guts, but most 
 of the time you are required to do something first. The formula works very well here because the 
 land and people are desolate and destitute to a degree, so often the trade off seems like it's 
 justified because of their condition. And in Sigil quests that may look like quests won't always 
 be be quests; they may be traps where you are led into a dark alley and jumped by four or five 
 thugs. And sometimes you never know what you will see or who you will run into, and the variables 
 that are sometimes thrown into quests makes things very interesting. Torment is a game where you 
 are free to explore, so explore you should. Exploring around will reveal landmarks, passages to 
 new areas, or perhaps quest objectives. Overall Torment's gameplay is superb since it adheres so 
 closely to Baldur's Gate, but it's got its own amazing story and memorable cast of characters.
 
  
  Torment's graphics look and feel identical to Baldur's Gate in every way. The only differences 
 are, as I said before, setting, atmosphere, and world. The game's atmosphere is very dark, and 
 macabre as evident as you'll see from the very beginning. You start by rising up alive in this 
 place called The Mortuary, and around the first room there are surgical tables with corpses that 
 have been butchered and mauled in every sort of way. And that's pretty much The Mortuary in a nutshell. 
 Though once after The Mortuary you will come into a city with living people who are twisted, downtrodden, 
 and sometimes dangerous. The first city you visit is filled with broken buildings, trash-filled 
 ghettos, and dirty pathways. The whole game world is surreal because of the supernatural elements 
 that permeate every aspect of the world from your floating skull accomplice to a wizard-like skull 
 collector. The graphical presentation of the game is sharp, and you will enjoy wandering around 
 this tormented world in search of your identity.
  
  Sound is something that can either set the atmosphere for a game or crush it, but in Torment's 
 case the music and sound add to the aura. There is some sound voice work done that pops up from 
 time to time either from Morte giving advice or from a newly appearing character. The voice work 
 is done well and it adds to the personality and person of each character as the story progresses. 
 Torment's sound effects are also pretty well done. Sound during combat you will hear the clang 
 of blades connecting or the crush of an axe, etc. Magic effects sound as they should whether it 
 be lightning or fire. Overall sounds rocks in Torment.
  
  Torment's appeal will attract any RPG fan out there regardless of its macabre story and setting. 
 If you like RPGs or Baldur's Gate then you should most definitely seek out this engrossing game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuperQ-2
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 30, 2008 9:42 pm PT
Review:  Torment is built on the Infinity Engine, which presents the player with a two-dimensional world, 
 in which protagonist characters are controlled from an isometric perspective. Exploration is accomplished 
 by clicking on the ground to move, or on objects and characters to interact with them. Items and 
 spells may be employed through hotkeys, "quick slots," or a radial menu.
  
  The player is able to join several of the factions that exist in Sigil (the planescape city where 
 the game begins) including the Dustmen, Sensates, Godsmen, Anarchists, and Chaosmen. This sometimes 
 gives The Nameless One abilities, but its main effect is allowing subquests and exploration of 
 Sigil.
  
  Also, the player may recruit adventuring companions over the course of the game. While there are 
 seven potential members, only five (or fewer) may accompany him at any point.
  
  The gameplay is unusual because of the heavy emphasis on dialog and reading. Adding a member to 
 the party, for example, has greater impact on what elements of the story will be discovered than 
 on combat.
  
  The game's interface was occasionally criticized for being ill-suited for the large number of dialog-heavy 
 encounters the game features.
  
  According to lead designer Chris Avellone, Planescape: Torment has numerous inspirations from a 
 variety of books, comics, and games. Notable works among them include Archie Comics, The Chronicles 
 of Amber, The Elementals, Final Fantasy, and Shadowrun. [5]
  
  The game begins with the protagonist, known only as The Nameless One, waking up with total amnesia. 
 He soon finds out that he is immortal; if he is killed, he will simply reawaken in the same body 
 (though sometimes, without his memories) .
  
  He sets out on a quest to regain his lost memories, and discover why he is immortal. As the game 
 progresses, he slowly remembers events from his many previous lives. He discovers much about the 
 personalities of his previous incarnations, and the great influence they have had in the worlds 
 and people that surround him.
  
  After traveling through many Planescape oddities and wonders, such as a pregnant alleyway, two 
 of the Lady of Pain's Mazes, Avernus (the first layer of Baator) , and Carceri (the prison plane 
 of thieves and liars) , he finally discovers why he is immortal. His original incarnation had committed 
 a grave evil and believed that more than one lifetime was needed to atone. So, he sought out the 
 powerful night hag, Ravel Puzzlewell, and asked her to make him immortal. Ravel granted him immortality, 
 but, by accident, with a flaw: sometimes a death would cause the loss of all his memories. Because 
 of this, he was unable to atone for his crimes.
  
  Most of the playing content is in dialog-based subplots. They explain the detailed backgrounds 
 of the characters, the past of the Nameless One, and the oddities of the setting (Planescape) .
 
  
  One example of a character that has a such a "hidden" background is a floating skull nicknamed 
 "Morte", that accompanies The Nameless One from the beginning of the game. 'The Nameless One' might 
 discover that Morte used to be attached to the Pillar of Skulls in Avernus, in punishment for having 
 told a lie that caused someone's death, and help him cope with that.
  
  Another examples is Vhailor, a secret character. Vhailor was a knight that believed so firmly in 
 punishment for misdeeds that after he died, his soul remained in his suit of armor to keep punishing 
 crimes. The player might discover that 'The Nameless One' was once one of the criminals Vhailor 
 persecuted, and is partially to blame for the knight's condition.
  
  There are also many subplots that help the player understand the setting. Often, making The Nameless 
 One or other characters believe in something will make it true (because of a "consensus reality", 
 see recurring themes) . The player might also help quite a few victims of the oddities of the planes 
 (and learn in the process) . There are people that can't find the right portal to return home, people 
 that have lost their names, and many others.
  
  One idea that presents itself many times during the game is consensus reality-if enough people 
 believe in something, then it is real, and begins to exist. For example, when people ask The Nameless 
 One his name, one of the choices of response is to lie that it is "Adahn". If the player tells 
 enough people that this is his name, a man named Adahn will appear in a certain location, claiming 
 to be an old friend, even though he never existed before. Another example is a recovered memory 
 of a past event in which the Nameless One apparently debates a man out of existence. Also, the 
 Githzerai make their home in Limbo, the plane of chaos, using collective belief to shape their 
 cities.
  
  Another theme that is presented prominently is the possibility (or impossibility) of changing fate; 
 many characters in torment are fighting against their natures, or against what seems to be an inevitable 
 fate. One example is Nordom, a member of a race that has a hive mind (the Modrons) but is developing 
 a personality of his own.
  
  Selfishness is also a very present theme. The Nameless One has, in previous incarnations, been 
 so committed to understanding and escaping his condition that he has been willing to sacrifice 
 everything and everyone on that quest. Many consequences of this can be discovered through the 
 game
  
  War, and particularly the Blood War, are also present. The utter futility of the blood war, that 
 started for no given reason, and seems to be endless, is cited many times.
  
  Torment shares, of course, many themes with its setting, Planescape. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Taegre
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 24, 2008 11:10 pm PT
Review:  Once you've completed this game, it's very hard to discuss it without endlessly gushing, especially 
 in the writing of a review. That's a symptom of Planescape: Torment infecting you as it first catches 
 you off guard with it's simple design and slow beginning, then wreaks havoc on your body and senses 
 when the story takes off. It's a disease without a cure; playing Torment from beginning to end 
 will change you and leave you eternally wanting more in a Shenmue-shared Baator.
  
  What's so great about this game? Story. Story, story, story, and more story. Leave your gameplay 
 hopes at the door. You are playing this game to watch a dramatic movie or read a graphic novel. 
 Yet it will never occur to you the way it does with JRPGs, because few story-driven games are this 
 interactive in their telling, and honestly, none suck you in as deeply. It's easy to be skeptical 
 at this point, wondering how a game with a colon in it's title could achieve more in it's narration 
 than a Vietnam War memoir. The honest answer: it just does.
  
  Unfortunately the very nature of that jaw-dropping story makes it hard to discuss without spoiling. 
 You are an immortal amnesiac who wakes up in a mortuary with a talking skull. Anything beyond that 
 is spoiler. Torment is a story of discover and from the get go you'll be solving mysteries as quickly 
 as you come upon them. Although the beginning can be very slow and harsh on newcomers (some start 
 off convinced the gameworld is already the afterlife, or that a certain journal they are supposed 
 to find is in the area you start in, both resulting in a lot of needless fumbling around) , the 
 pacing picks up once you finally get your bearings. It's important not to give up before that moment, 
 Torment is a game in which you are expected to act on the actions you would take were you in that 
 scenario so it doesn't hold your hand to guide you even in its first moments. You are given more 
 advice throughout the game than you need, but sometimes you gain more by going against it (like 
 talking to a character a friend of yours begs you not to) .
  
  On that note, it's worth noting the importance of dialogue in Torment. There's more in it here 
 than any game you will ever play, so much that it outweighs combat. This RPG ends up playing more 
 like a puzzle game as you choose your words carefully through twisting dialogue trees that challenge 
 your morality as well as your intellect. Like most games that feature moral ambiguity, the line 
 between being good and being evil is pretty distinct. What's unusual for an AD&D-type game is that 
 you do not choose your alignment from the start, you earn it through your actions. So if you want 
 to be a paragon of virtue or a menace to the planes, you have to earn it. What's more unusual is 
 just how evil the evil acts in this game are. While titles like Fable or Deus Ex define a cruel 
 act as taking a kid's teddy bear or killing a character that has little permanent bearing anyway, 
 Torment gives you the possibility of permanently killing your friends and damning those that have 
 helped you. Torment may be the only game you'll play where it is harder to be evil than good, if 
 only because of the strong guilt that comes with it.
  
  Part of what makes that so difficult is how attached you will be to your companions and characters 
 in the game. The characters you can add to your party are very well defined with backstories you 
 can dig into by conversing with them. Of particular interest are Morte, your first ally and unorthodox 
 comic relief, Annah, a strangely sexy demonic rogue (and no, nobody will blame you for those thoughts) , 
 and Dak'kon, Planescape's badass version of Chow Yun Fat in Crouching Tiger. This game puts a massive 
 amount of effort into your allies and how they interact with you (and each other in short entertaining 
 skits) , which is very commendable considering you can choose to wade through the game alone. You 
 can even engage in a small love story or two, and blow your chances just as easily as you can in 
 real life. The various character interactions alone warrant multiple playthroughs.
  
  With so much emphasis on story and dialogue, it's easy to put combat on the back burner. That's 
 because it kind of is in this game. Combat revolves around the old dungeons and dragons rules that 
 guided Baldur's Gate and Icewind Dale, with a number of changes to the formula (specifically in 
 dealing with how the Wisdom stat works) , but there are very few random encounters and no multi-level 
 dungeons for XP farming. There are only a few weapons types and hardly any godlike weapons. Armor 
 is completely left out, as are most of the traditional D&D classes. Battles are as epic and exciting 
 as you'd expect from the engine (maybe more so thanks to the great spell effects) but there are 
 huge gaps between them. In fact, the middle of the game can see you go around four or five hours 
 solving quests without ever having to punch somebody. Simply put, dialogue is your ultimate weapon 
 even against the game's bosses.
  
  And that brings up some of Torment's few but jarring flaws. The minuscule weapon and class selections 
 make the game feel shallow at times. The total game map is pretty small and has you spending a 
 lot of time in one area. The interface is tricky and can have you accidentally canceling a player 
 order without realizing. Backtracking is a beeeeeeatch through and through. And as stated before, 
 you have very little guidance to start with, which can convince you to quit the game just before 
 things really get rolling.
  
  But you can pretty much disregard that entire last paragraph into oblivion, because you won't give 
 a crap once you sink your teeth into this game. It's hard to describe, and easy to be skeptical, 
 about how Torment manages to capture its rabid fans on story alone. The only way to learn is to 
 experience it yourself by any means necessary (Gametap would be an easy choice right about now) . 
 Should every RPG be like Torment? No, brilliance does not equal perfection and you'll probably 
 find yourself reaching for an action game when you finally escape Torment's grip. But for the time 
 being, Planescape: Torment is the only game of it's kind, so if you choose to dive into its alluring 
 depths, be warned that you may never again be able to enjoy the sensations of your first playthrough 
 (unless they decide to market Sensory Stones. That'd be kickass) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yemeth-360
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 24, 2008 9:15 am PT
Review:  What can i say about this game that can be vocally spoken? You have to play this game, and the 
 game itself will review itself to you, as the player. 
  
  The way the story is written is a masterpiece. Narratives come together like magic, keeping you 
 gripped throughout the entire game. 
  
  Another thing is just how much reading there is to be done. You will come out of this game more 
 linguistic and knowledgeable, believe me.
  
  The combat is real time, not turn based, so you're always on your toes to equip the best weapon 
 you have.
  
  Tons and tons of quests, missions and problems to solve, this game will stay with you for months 
 if you want to finish every side quest.
  
  A unique array of party members you can encounter, a seamless user interface and one of the best 
 narratives ever told make this the hidden gem to go out and seek. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nocoolnamejim
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 22, 2009 4:02 pm PT
Review:  Planescape: Torment
  
  The Good: One of the best storylines ever devised for a video game. Highly memorable characters. 
 Lots of excellent side quests. Innovative protagonist who can switch character cla$$ at will. Fascinating 
 setting and environment. For the time period, excellent graphics. Thrilling sound track. Lots of 
 user created mods and patches. Quest resolution almost always provides far more experience than 
 combat. Multiple endings.
  
  The Bad: Buggy unless patched. Little voice acting. To some, endings are unsatisfactory.
  
 
  If Planescape: Torment is not the greatest game of all time, then it certainly is a contender 
 for the title. Released to rave reviews and lackluster sales, the game never spawned a sequel that 
 it should have had and fans everywhere have clamored for. So we are left with something highly 
 unusual in modern times: a game that received almost unanimous positive reviews that didn't spawn 
 at least two additional follow-up titles.
  
  But what is it that makes this game so great that it can match up successfully with most modern 
 titles even today, nearly a decade after it was first released?
  
  Any answer to that question must first begin with the storyline, which puts nearly all storylines 
 in modern day games to shame. In total, the game's script contains roughly 800,000 words. This 
 is the equivalent of a 2667 page book if we assume three hundred words per printed page. To say 
 that the storyline is fleshed out is a bit of an understatement. But anyone can just throw a lot 
 of words at a storyline. The true mark of a great story isn't the amount of words that it contains, 
 but the depth of the themes included. This is where Torment shines the brightest. Torment's storyline 
 touches deeply upon some of the most important themes that mankind has struggled with throughout 
 the course of human history. When is it too late for a bad person to be redeemed if they've led 
 an evil life? Is it possible to cheat fate? Do gods create men or do men create gods through the 
 power of their belief? What can change the nature of a man? These are just a few of the questions 
 that the game, and the game's main protagonist, grapples with through the course of his journey 
 of self-discovery.
  
  To talk too much about the storyline would be to ruin it, so let's move onto the thrilling characters 
 the game features. Any discussion of the characters must, of course, begin with the one you play, 
 who is appropriately titled "The Nameless One". Not your typical hero. The Nameless One wakes up 
 in the mortuary (morgue) with no memory of how he got there or why he isn't dead, a bunch of instructions 
 from someone literally tattooed onto his back, and an animated, floating skull babbling at him. 
 He is, apparently, immortal. This then, is the ultimate freedom that many rpg titles strive for 
 and never quite achieve. You are offered the ultimate choice that an RPG can present: define who 
 you are completely from scratch. Granted, you've had past lives and clues of who you have been 
 are scattered everywhere, but who you are now is left up for you to determine based on your choices 
 throughout this long game, of which there will be many.
  
  The Nameless One is hardly the only interesting character you will meet in the game. Developed 
 by Interplay, the predecessor to renowned RPG developers Bioware and Obsidian, the cast of supporting 
 characters is top notch. The floating skull I mentioned earlier who is present when you wake up 
 in the Mortuary is one of them. 
  
  Others include a beautiful succubus demon, who has turned her back on seducing mortals into giving 
 up their souls and fled from hell. She now runs a place called "The Brothel for Slating Intellectual 
 Lusts" where all the prostitutes do is slate lusts of the mind alone. Another is a floating suit 
 of animated armor, with a distinct hard-on for smiting evil doers and anyone who shows any hints 
 of mercy. Still another is an insane mage whose had a portal to the elemental plane of fire opened 
 within him and is therefore constantly on fireand loves it. I could go on. Suffice it to say that 
 the cast of characters is expansive, original and fun to interact with.
  
  You and the supporting characters start in a place called "Sigil", which is also known as the City 
 of Doors because it serves as a interdimensional hub of sorts between the various heavens and hells 
 of existence. Sigil alone would qualify as one of the more unique settings in recent rpg memory, 
 but it is not the only plane of existence you'll visit in your quest to answer the ultimate questions 
 that the game poses. Seldom have rpg settings been so vibrantly unique and alive as the ones you'll 
 travel through during the course of the game, and finding the multitude of various side quests 
 that the game offers is an experience in and of itself.
  
  Those side quests range far beyond the typical "go kill person XYZ" or "fetch/deliver the widget". 
 For example, early on in the game you can encounter a man called "Reekwind" who insulted the wrong 
 wizard and has been cursed with, you guessed it, incredible stench. A quest you can undertake is 
 to remove the stench from the manor you can just decide to make fun of him instead if you so choose. 
 Another example is the quest to convince a mage to provide final death to a zombie he created. 
 A zombie named "Dimtree" was created because a mage was hired by the coffin maker's neighbors to 
 provide the coffin maker a friend, because the coffin maker talks so much that nobody can stand 
 to be around him. Unfortunately, the zombie actually turned out to be much more intelligent and 
 aware of its surroundings than zombies are supposed to being is now suffering horribly and wants 
 to go back to being fully dead and needs you to convince the mage in question to let him. The variety 
 of different quests that you can undertake is truly staggering.
  
  Unlike a lot of games, the side quests in Torment truly are quite optional. You can beat the game 
 without doing a bunch of side questing to power up, which is ironic because unlike other games 
 that almost require you to do side quests in order to become powerful enough to beat the game, 
 the side quests in Planescape: Torment are so much fun that even though you really don't need to 
 do them, most players will probably do a lot of them anyway just to see how they get resolved. 
 And the resolution of quests definitely compensates players appropriately. Torment differs games 
 which focus on killing things as the main vehicle to gaining experience and additional powers, 
 Planescape has few absolutely mandatory battles. True, a player can choose to battle often if they 
 like, nearly every battle in the game can be avoided with minimal loss of power and experience 
 if your conversation states like charisma, wisdom and intelligence are high enough. In addition, 
 you aren't penalized for avoiding combat because you gain far more experience as rewards for finishing 
 quests or having good conversations with folks than you do from mindless slaughter. Torment is 
 a game that truly rewards players for, surprise! Playing a role.
  
  Another interesting thing to note is that you can switch cla$$es at will throughout the game. Unlike 
 most other RPG games where you chose what cla$$ of character you will play when you create the 
 character and then it is set for the duration, The Nameless One can switch between being Fighter, 
 a Wizard or a Thief almost at will once he has access to the proper trainers. The in-game explanation 
 for how this is possible is that the protagonist isn't so much learning new skills as he is remembering 
 old ones. Since he's an immortal, he's held a wide variety of different professions during his 
 many lives. So if you get tired of solving quests by bashing someone over the head and would prefer 
 to zap them with a few well-placed spells, then there is no need to start over. Just switch up 
 your cla$$!
  
  Of course doing this does have some drawbacks. You get some extra rewards for specializing such 
 as rising in levels quicker and, based on how you allocate your stats, you may be better suited 
 to play one cla. ss over another, but the freedom you're allowed to make those choices is truly 
 remarkable.
  
  By modern standards, the graphics in Torment are, of course, subpar. The game is a decade old after 
 all! However, by the standards of the time period it was released in, the graphics are top notch 
 and they hold up well enough today to not be a distraction from the overall fun of the game. The 
 graphics are also supported by a very solid soundtrack. The main theme is the best music overall 
 but many of the themes for the individual characters that you meet in the game are equally well 
 done and memorable. And while voice acting is rather minimal, what is there features nearly a wide 
 selection of some of the more memorable voice actors both in and out of the video game industry. 
 (For example: Jennifer Hale, who voiced Bastila Shan from Knights of the Old Republic and Lady 
 Aribeth from Neverwinter Nights.) While some of these choices are surprising, such as the voice 
 actor who did Homer Simpson doing one of the characters you can recruit, they all work well.
  
  For all that Torment does correct, it isn't without a couple of flaws here and there. Of course 
 one is the sparse voice acting, but that is minor. Much more serious is the buggy state of the 
 game until it is patched. Interplay released an official patch before it went out of business that 
 advances the game to version 1.1, but the cult following that the game has developed has done a 
 great deal more work since.
  
  This reviewer recommends the following patches/mods in the following order.
  
  1. The Official 
 Patch
  2. Comprehensive WeiDU Fixpack by Qwinn, which includes a number of previously released fixpacks 
 all incorporated together.
  3. Unfinished Business which restores a bunch of cut content back into the game.
  4. Qwinn's 
 Torment Tweaks which makes a number of minor but very helpful tweaks to the game, such as allowing 
 you to stack items (thus saving valuable space) and rest anywhere.
  
  Author's Note: For some reason links don't work here. I have a version of this review in my blog 
 that has the links, along with better formatting. Feel free to PM me to provide if you need help 
 finding these patches/mods.
  
  But since Torment has been out for quite some time, nearly all of the original bugginess of the 
 released version of the game has since been fixed. It may take a little bit of time and effort 
 to get the right patches and mods installed, but they are all available.
  
  Summary:
  Planescape: Torment is easily one of the best rpg titles ever released. It is a must-own for any 
 true fan of the RPG genre, and cannot be recommended enough by this reviewer. Do yourself a favor 
 and find a way to pick this title up used somewhere. You won't be disappointed.
  
  True Final Score: 10.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blarbl
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 17, 2008 7:24 am PT
Review:  I stumbled upon this game years ago and it is one of the best RPGs I have ever played (and I've 
 been gaming since the eighties) . If this were a book, I would call it a page-turner.
  A great storyline, wonderful characters, interesting side quests and beautiful graphics make this 
 a near perfect game. The game's use of the Baldur's Gate engine and isometric view gives it an 
 atmosphere that is unique, yet familiar. The interface takes some getting used to, but the auto-pause 
 feature mostly offsets this, preventing the UI's kludginess from seriously detracting from gameplay.
 
  What really makes this game stand out is the story. The story is one of the most immersive I've 
 experienced since the days of text adventures (when the story WAS the game) . With the recent shortage 
 of good scripts in Hollywood , I would not be surprised to see an adaptation of this game on the 
 big screen some day (anything is better than another Beverly Hillbillies movie) .
  When judged within the context of the year of its release, this game has no real weaknesses, although 
 fans of gratuitous cut-scenes may be slightly disappointed. Planescape: Torment requires players 
 to read and use their imaginations more than most modern RPGs, but is that really a negative? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phone_tools
Rating: 10
Date: May 25, 2008 3:43 pm PT
Review:  Planescape: Torment is a game for the ages.
  
  it is a game that is completely fresh and original, and will astound and amaze you at every twist. 
 It is a supreme work of imagination, and will actually manage to make you THINK and FEEL. Just 
 the sheer originality and willingness to be thought-provoking make this game something you will 
 never forget.
  
  It has been likened to more of a 'work of art' then a game... but i think this falls short. To 
 me, the game is more of an *experience* then anything else.
  
  The reason why people love planescape torment so much is mainly because of it's fantastic story. 
 The quality of the writing in this game is unmatched, and dialogue can often turn into heavy philosophical 
 debates on things like death, order, chaos, and suffering. It is mainly very dark material here, 
 but the game does have some great comic relief (mainly thanks to your floating skull-sidekick, 
 Morte) . Whereas the goal of most RPG's is to slay an evil boss or save the world, your only goals 
 in PST are only to 1. find out who you are, and 2. to regain your lost mortality (in a way... to 
 be able to truly die) .
  
  To start off, PST throws you, nameless and with no memory, in a the slums of a giant city called 
 Sigil. Think of Sigil as huge, inter-dimensional crossroads; a place littered with portals to every 
 place and plane in existence. Every bounded space in this city has the possibility to be the portal 
 to another frame of mind, whether it be heaven, hell, or Louisiana. The setting is meant to be 
 one of philosophical concepts given life through belief... forces of good, evil, order and chaos 
 not only shape the world around you... they ARE the world.
  
  The originality of PST doesn't end with the setting, however. The designers seemed to have looked 
 for every 'convention' of traditional rpg's, and came up with a unique twist for it. For instance, 
 rats, usually the classic annoyance of low-level players, now become deadly bosses, with groups 
 of them casting brutal spells on you through their hive-mind. Instead of getting new swords and 
 armor, you will instead get new tattoos, axes, and teeth. There is even a sequence that makes fun 
 of the classic rpg dungeon, where a group of extra-planar beings creates an artifical dungeon for 
 you, all for the purpose of finding out what the appeal of said dungeons are for adventurers.
 
  
  The most brilliant design element in the game, however, is the handling of death. the twist here 
 is that the protagonist of the game is immortal. Instead of having to hit the reload button, you 
 will just awaken from a predesignated area, with all memories and experience points intact. You 
 might think that this would make the game trite and easy... however it does not at all. Death is 
 in fact one of the most important themes of the game, and dying is often the only way to solve 
 puzzles and advance the plot.
  
  The other part of the game which stands out to me the most, is the wildly imaginative NPC's you'll 
 meet. Each one has a very clever and well-thought out backstory, and just the first character you 
 meet, Morte, has more personality packed into him then just about all the characters in baldur's 
 gate, combinded :P
  I have to give a special nod to the developers here- not only are all the characters well thought 
 out, but they aren't just a random group of people. They are all linked together by the fact that 
 they are *tormented* souls. The way the game stages and implements this is brilliant, and you will 
 get a chance find out what each character's torment is, and help them with it. I personally found 
 this to be one of the most rewarding parts of the game.
  
  As for the graphics, even though PST is going on 10 years old, it still gets high marks in this 
 department. To be sure, it is very dated, but still looks good. This is ultimately because of the 
 superb art direction. If you have ever played World of Warcraft, you probably know what i'm talking 
 about -- even though it is technically simplistic, the use of a few well-thought out color pallets 
 and carefully designed environments can make it still look great. Also, the spellcasting in this 
 game is awesome. Spell effects all look very good, making the screen flash and shake as magic flies 
 across the screen and explodes. Sometimes, the spells are of such power that they actually pull 
 away to in-game movies in order to capture their full effect. And yes, there is a certain spell 
 in this game, called 'Mechanus's Cannon' that has got to be the coolest spell in ANY game EVER 
 :)
  
  The sound- music and voice acting, are also top notch. The music blends perfectly well with the 
 game, and can be quite haunting at times. The voice acting is a little to sparse in my opinion, 
 but the little there is, is all very high quality.
  
  To sum it all up- PST is not only the best game i have ever played, but it is a game that i think 
 ever true gamer should play at least once before they die. It is a game that will not only effect 
 you very deeply emotionally, but will ultimately change the way you *think* and *feel* about certain 
 things. It is something that i personally will never forget, and has a lot of meaning to me.
  So, if you're not afraid of questioning your own beliefs, then PST is a game that you should go 
 and buy immediately if you you haven't yet, enjoy thoroughly, and savor till the very last last 
 moment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stowik
Rating: 9
Date: May 7, 2008 7:14 am PT
Review:  Basically, the story sells this game. The gameplay is really good -- you have a party, so there are 
 a lot of options... such as melee, magic and thieving. It's based on the Dungeons and Dragons (a. k. a. 
 D&D) mechanics so it helps to be familiar with D&D, HOWEVER, it's simplified and the in-game tips 
 are great so it's not necessary. 
  
  I would recommend that you approach this game with an open mind and most importantly BE PATIENT. 
 The text is the beauty of this game... do NOT rush through it with a "kill monster, win game" mentality. 
 
  
  In spite of what some players say, I actually found the combat challenging. The good thing is that 
 you can pause the game and manage your party's inventory during combat. This is really important! 
 My biggest piece of advice is to carry A LOT of Blood Charms. They heal 18 health (hit?) points 
 and are the cheapest healing item on a health point per cost basis. 
  
  If you die, then it isn't a big deal... however, I'm a perfectionist so I would rather reload and 
 retry then die. Either way is ok. 
  
  Not much else to say... not many games are recognized as "classics" and although it will cost you 
 the price of a new game to find Planescape on Ebay or Amazon, I would say "go for it" because odds 
 are that someday this game will become unplayable on future systems. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smerlus
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 1, 2008 2:35 am PT
Review:  After hearing so many RPG fans hold a single game in such high regard topic after topic, post after 
 post, I knew that I had to pick up this game and see what all of the fuss is about. The game I'm 
 talking about is Planescape: Torment and it is indeed RPG goodness.
  
  Planescape: Torment takes the tried and true clich of a hero suffering from amnesia and actually 
 makes a whole story out of it instead of using it as a simple plot device. What follows is a 40+ 
 hour tale of past personas, lies, deceit, betrayal and loyal companions. The story and characters 
 are simply amazing all around. I can't remember the last game this thought provoking in a long 
 time. 
  
  The plot reminded me of Groundhog's Day in the simplest way. It's all because the main character 
 has had so many incarnations that he literally has done pretty much everything. Some characters 
 I ran into despised The Nameless One because he was evil in the past while other adored him because 
 he treated them well. This forgotten familiarity also extends to the three classes available; Fighter, 
 Mage and Thief. The Nameless One easily picks up on these professions because he's done them all 
 before.
  
  Planescape actually feels like there are hundreds of quests and that pretty much everyone you talk 
 to has a different personality and something you could do for them. What's even more surprising 
 is that the majority of the quests are actually interesting to do and often net some surprising 
 rewards. The job didn't always match the payment but I enjoyed that the game kept me guessing. 
 I loved receiving permanent stat boosts out of no where or unlocking prior memories out of the 
 blue. Its little bonuses like these that made me want to talk to every single person.
  
  The best part is that this game is an actual RPG meaning I can get just as much done by trying 
 to talk my way through things as I could by just taking the physical route and attacking everything. 
 In fact I think you can level up more through conversation. If you've played a game like KOTOR, 
 then you pretty much know how the controls and combat work out. However, while typical RPG's only 
 have stats to improve combat, Planescape's stats affect everything from conversation options to 
 how much exp you get in any given situation. It's amazing that Torment has this deep of an RPG 
 system under it and that only very small parts of it are used to this day.
  
  The graphics held up decently and I must say fair better than Fallout's graphics. I think this 
 is due in part to bigger sprites and a closer camera. The backgrounds occasionally got confusing 
 as sometimes paths looked like buildings and vice versa but for the most part I would say the game 
 has aged well. Even the blockyness and blurriness of the cutscenes weren't that distracting.
  
  With Neverwinter Nights 2 fresh on my brain, it was nice to see some of the creatures in that 
 game in Planescape. I mean they are from the Dungeons and Dragons universe so I did expect to see 
 some familiar sights. What I didn't expect is that Torment had so many more creatures that I didn't 
 know existed in this realm. It also gives a nice detailed explanation about the different planes 
 of existence.
  
  The voice acting and music are also timeless and perfectly fitting for this game. There's not a 
 lot of spoken dialogue but when there is, it's done well. Sound effects are everything I expected 
 them to be so there's really not too much to say here. The audio portion has withstood the test 
 of time.
  
  My main complaint would probably be that the game difficulty ramped up a bit near the end. It's 
 pretty meaningless when you're an immortal with infinite lives (mostly) but constantly getting 
 my ass kicked in certain parts then marching back sometimes made me feel like a feeble kid going 
 up to a bully over and over again. Also it may be Microsoft Vista, but most of the spell effects 
 didn't work the way they should. All the effects had black boxes around them so I usually strayed 
 away from magic or killed magic users first because of the ugly boxes.
  
  I really wish I could keep gushing about the story and characters I met along the way but that 
 would delve into spoiler territory. I guess I'll just end saying that Planescape: Torment is an 
 old game and that may turn some people off, but for anyone that likes a great story, it's worth 
 taking a trip back in time.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: KTs2006
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 25, 2008 11:43 am PT
Review:  Planescape Torment is a CRPG game based on the AD&D rules. Along with Baldur's Gate and Icewind 
 Dale series they are part of one of the greatest periods in the history of CRPGs. Contrary to other 
 two Torment takes place in the setting of Planescape. The story is absolutely intriguing, the graphics 
 really good (even nowadays) , the sounds and the acting also of the same high quality. I don't think 
 i can find any flaws in this one. A highly addictive game that keeps you busy for quite a long time. In 
 its case the most interesting element perhaps is your companions who have their one unique story 
 being unfolded through the course of the game. Forget the typical dwarf fighters or elven wizards 
 etc, etc. Your very first companion now is a flying skull!!! The other ones are very interesting as 
 well but this one's a highlight. If you haven't tried this game it's never too late!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SonicBoyster
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 13, 2008 11:03 pm PT
Review:  Quickly after its initial release this incredible piece of interactive fiction developed a cult-popularity 
 status, which it has managed to maintain and even managed to expand over the last eight years. 
 For the sake of brevity I'll simply state that it's less of a role playing game than it is a work 
 of literature, and if you find reading to be an enjoyable activity, this is the game for you. The 
 game has length, polish, intrigue, immersion, and an emphasis on philosophy only seen in a fistful 
 of games published to date. If you can actually get your hands on a copy of this game you'll find 
 it was worth all of the work you had to put into locating it.
  
  Planescape: Torment is a game with an interactive adventure that you'll carry with you into conversations 
 and personal philosophies from its conclusion until your own. Buy it!
  
  And it's only like $10 now! Snag it off of ebay, or try amazon, or bargain bins, or your friends, 
 or other places I would probably not be allowed to list in a publicly posted review on a commercial 
 video game review site! Just get it before it fades even further into obscurity... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thrasher91604
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 7, 2008 1:48 pm PT
Review:  Play this if you want a really deep and mysterious story, in a unique setting, with great NPCs, 
 companions and otherwise.
  
  There is a LOT of reading in this game. It's one of its strengths and it's all well done. The text 
 reveals the deepest story, setting, and characters available in any game I've played to date.
 
  
  However, the voiceacting, although limited, is probably the best I've heard in any game to date.
 
  
  As the story progresses, I had some very emotional moments when I really felt for the characters. 
 No other game affected me as deeply.
  
  There are a lot of great roleplaying opportunities. But in the end, your actions don't significantly 
 affect the destiny of the main player character. Given all the other deep roleplaying allowed throughout 
 the game, this ending to the game disappointed me greatly. But it was consistent with the story.
 
  
  The planescape setting is unique, graphically, as well as conceptually. And it is huge. This setting 
 is much more expansive than your typical DnD game. There are lots of unique creatures, locations, 
 factions, and people to interact with. Part of the fun of this game is the learning about the setting 
 and its deep history. Playing it is truly a fresh experience. Although, at times, the setting (especially 
 in the first area) , can be a bit morose. This is not about happy elves singing in the valley. After 
 the starting location, the setting really opens up, and becomes quite a wonder to behold, and, 
 at times, a bit disturbing as well.
  
  The user interface for combat has been improved over the Baldur's Gate games upon which Torment 
 is based. So combat is less tedious, which is great. There are many new unique spells and items 
 that don't appear in any other games. Some of the spell graphics are very funny and invoke monumental 
 cut scenes, that can be quite entertaining.
  
  The most unusual aspect of this game is that the typical gameplaying goal of trying to stay alive 
 at all costs is turned on its ear. You play an immortal. If you die, you wake up fully healed with 
 all your companions nearby. In some cases, it's actually desirable to die to complete some of the 
 subquests.
  
  Much of the gameplay is centered on dialogues with NPCs, and trying to find out about the player 
 character's past history. Because of this, characteristics such as intelligence, wisdom, and charisma 
 are much more important in this game than combat related stats such as strength and constitution. 
 Although you can play a warrior with high combat stats, you will miss out on a lot of interesting 
 dialogues and setting/story related info. You can also roleplay a thief or a mage, or so some combination 
 of the three. This fun aspect is also unique to this game.
  
  One last thing, the music is fantastic. It's quite haunting at moments, and it truly amplifies 
 the emotional content of the story.
  
  Don't miss playing this classic before it becomes too hard to play on modern machines! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jadeheart6
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 26, 2007 10:37 pm PT
Review:  The story and plot of this game is worthy of its own movie. There is not much to say except this 
 game has a very emotional and surprising end. You can probably find this game on Ebay or in a discount 
 rack. Unfortunetly they never made a sequel this excellent game. Although the graphics are kind 
 of outdated for 2007, the story-line is superior to Baldur's Gate in almost every way. So what 
 are you waiting for? Get out there and find this game today! If only the newer games had this kind 
 of plot-line I would be a happy gamer.
  The npcs in this game really made this game shine. The dialogue they use through-out the game will 
 make you laugh and sometimes cry. My favorite was Mort the talking skull because he makes a lot 
 of undead jokes and there is a side quest that involves him later on in the game. 
  You start the game wakingup in a morgue. It's kind of gruesome and yet at the same time thrilling 
 to find out why you are in the morgue. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: master_blue
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 27, 2007 11:43 am PT
Review:  Planescape Torment was developed by the team behind fallout 1 and 2, Icewind dale adventure games 
 and also assisted in the development of the other truly great RPG's the Baldurs Gate series and 
 this game is using the 'Infinity Engine' from the BG series.
  
  Planescape Torment is based of the now defunct Planescape universe were all the various "planes" 
 think dimensions intersect so people and monsters can travel to brand new worlds/dimensions by 
 going through portals all of which lead at some point to 'Sigil'. I can't go into too much detail 
 about the Planescape universe because its so indepth a description would probably exceed the information 
 in regards to review.
  
  You take on the role of 'The Nameless One' called this for good reason, you see you wake up on 
 a mortuary slab and have forgotten who you are how you got there and so begins the adventure to 
 uncover your identity.
  You quickly find out that you are also immortal only vulnerable to permenant death from being eaten 
 and burnt alive, if youve been slain by more conventional means you'll be ressurected nearby with 
 replenished health points.
  
  Before the very start though you can edit your character by assigning various skill points, its 
 fairly limited coming from the likes of baldurs gate, icewind dale, Arcanum and fallout but you 
 can specialise your character too have one or two very strong stats maybe constitution and strength 
 for a fighter with plenty of health points or having high wisdom or intelligence to effect dialog 
 and quests.
  Which leads me onto another point, your characters actions and stats have a huge effect on the 
 game as you progress, you can find out ways to solve quests, notice what other characters might 
 be doing or learn from past experiences from your previous incarnations.
  Its also worth noting that whilst you cant pre determine what style of character you have you can 
 specialise the stats and eventually become trained to be either a thief, mage or fighter.
  
  The fighting in the game is in the same style as Baldurs Gate series, its in real time with 
 'invisible' rounds as it were, your character will be attacking a monster but only after a certain 
 amount of time will a hit or miss check be done then damage calculated which will then display 
 above the creature, fighting can be interrupted by pressing the space bar to pause it at which 
 point you can still decide what actions to undertake, spells to cast ,where to move to and maybe 
 even use some quick items.
  
  And in classic RPG fashion once a enemy is killed you're rewarded with some experience points, 
 when you have enough experience points you can level up and you gain more hps dependant on your 
 'constitution' stat , if you're a mage more spell slots dependant on your 'intelligence' stat , 
 a fighter can gain more weapon proficiencies and your general combat skills improve and a thief 
 gets thief points to spend in various ways these being disarm traps, pickpocket, stealth and pick 
 locks. Conversely and this is a postive, Planescape Torment also takes what is standard RPG elements 
 and changes them so the game feels much more unique, for example devils dont lie, death isnt the 
 end for the main character, rats can become the most powerful enemy and theres no staple races 
 as seen in other classic DnD style games like dwarves etc, it makes for a unique refreshing take 
 on a fantasy setting, and what a setting it is!
  
  The system works well enough, offcourse a turn based option would be preferable but the game has 
 alot of monsters which tend to be in mobs so sometimes the speed at which combat with the lesser 
 creatures is done can be a time saver, but against anything remotely difficult or challenging the 
 combat system is more of a hindrance tapping the space bar alot just to gather bearings and respond 
 to the situation.
  
  Planescape is quite an amazing setting for a game, theres a huge variety in monsters, views and 
 characters to meet throughout the game, some are pretty bizarre indeed such as your very first 
 companion, a floating talking skull with a penchant for dead females and later on (and somewhat 
 disturbing) a giant column of writhing skulls and heads.
  And although the game focuses on the city of doors - Sigil its still a really big area comparable 
 easily to Baldurs Gate itself from that series with a huge array of factions, characters and quests 
 to check out easily the biggest section of the game and certainly fun.
  
  I don't want to spoil the story in any way, but out of all games ive had the fortune to play and 
 even hear about or read about, this game has the best storyline out of them all, the setting, the 
 characters and the actual story and how it plays out and how it all fits together is really a work 
 of art and puts even published novels to shame.
  
  The world looks very nice even today when finding every game is being made 3D some of which really 
 really isn't all that good, the 2D graphics such as in Planescape Torment are ageing very well, 
 everything looks well drawn and vividly coloured, nothing seems too bright or too dull and animations 
 are likewise done to a high standard, it is a little annoying that the resolution is fixed quite 
 low to the same degree of Baldurs Gate 1 without a way to change this (though im sure theres a 
 mod out there to do so) but still it looks good even after all this time.
  
  Conversations take place in standard RPG form you go up to a character and engage in a discussion, 
 in planescape its much much much more indepth and has descriptions for virtually every NPC , every 
 odd looking object in the game , the descriptions read like they're actually from a novel so , 
 theres a lot of reading involved in this game so whilst the real time combat might appeal to twitch 
 gamers it takes a patient gamer to truly appreciate the game, and such a gamer is blessed with 
 a rewarding gaming experience where choice and consequence truly matters, your character stats 
 will effect dialog and solutions to quests, you can join factions which have their own benefits 
 and enemies, a huge impact dependant on your choices during conversations, beats the hell out of 
 modern RPG's which tend to be rather light on the choice and nonexistent on the consequence part 
 - join every faction in oblivion? you got it!, wiki dialog in morrowind? you got it! , mass effect 
 choices lead to the same conclusion? - you got it!. In planescape its not like that at all and 
 there are very few parts of the game where you'll be forced into a confrontation with a major character 
 and have to kill them. 
  
  Sound wise, the voice overs what little there is in the game is done well, cant fault it, sounds 
 in general are well done too but the music is the highlight, its mainly done by the same person 
 who did the music in the Fallout series of games, Mark Morgan and there are a few tracks you can 
 definitely tell are composed by him. The music is a mix of almost orchestra with a modern synth 
 creating some very nice tracks such as the main theme and deionarras theme and fitting ambient 
 tracks such as Sigil and Mortuary themes, its a very good soundtrack on par with the excellent 
 Fallout soundtrack aswell.
  The credits music is also very good and was composed by Richard Band, but the lions share of the 
 soundtrack was Mark Morgans work.
  
  Planescape is a big game, its not as big as say Fallout 2 or Baldurs Gate 1/2 but its still lengthy 
 enough, one of the other problems I have with Planescape though is that, whilst its superb I cant 
 help but get the impression that Black Isles were rushed when developing it, because Sigil is done 
 absolutely amazingly well but when you leave Sigil/ravels maze and arrive at 'Curst' the town has 
 very little to do in comparison yes its smaller than sigil but theres not many quests and its centered 
 around one hub essentially that being the bar, furthermore the dialogs are bit lame, I talked to 
 the fellows in the bar then came back when I had to get 'a key' and talked to one person again 
 and they simply said 'so do you have both of the items yet?' was abit strange considering that 
 I didnt have an option to ask what items and just got lucky that I found what items they required.
 
  
  Furthermore the game then (after ravel) relies on massive encounters with some pretty tough enemies 
 which might surround characters and mercilessly butcher them and then later on theres respawning 
 enemies which I hate - hook horrors from Icewind dale and the infuriating ninja monks from Vampires 
 The Masquerade :Bloodlines also have this weakness although in those latter two games its done 
 to a much worse degree.
  
  This is a great game, its such a shame that Planescape universe is no longer supported and no new 
 content is made , not even any fictional novels, and its equally disastrous that this game didnt 
 become a huge hit it deserved to be and that black isle is no more.
  
  I recommend wholeheartedly acquiring this game, its considered quite rare these days and demands 
 a higher than expected price even for a budget version on ebay, so good luck finding a copy.
  
  Pros:
  
  .Superb storyline much more engrossing and emotive than other games.
  .Excellent 
 unusual setting - refreshing setting compared to standard DnD affair.
  .Quality soundtrack
  .Choice and Consequence gameplay
  .Filled with many memorable moments and interesting characters
 
  .Graphically still looks fine.
  .Big game will last quite a while, not the same size as Baldurs Gate but satisfying amount of gaming 
 hours to be had.
  .Quite abit of replay value due to the choice and consequence nature of gameplay
  .Unique take 
 on what would be considered standard RPG elements..
  
  Cons:
  
  .Path finding can be abit iffy, may find your character getting stuck or blocked by other team 
 mates - a minor inconvenience.
  .Real Time combat is a mix bag.
  .Fixed resolution which is quite low
  .a little bit buggy still
  .Felt a little underdeveloped/rushed 
 after Sigil and Ravel section.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: JokerStelios
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 12, 2007 12:17 pm PT
Review:  It is Traditional, it explain a world 
  that you never see or imagine cause 
  all typical RPGs share the story of knights, 
  angels, demons and e. t. c. but none the trully
 
  fantastic story of the Planes and of its fearfull Goddess
  the one and only Lady of Pain :D
  
  I love it at first sight ofc cause i worship Anti - heros 
 
  You have a broken man that made many sins 
  in his past lives ... 
  So he take a terrible punisment for that ...
  What is that ? Eternity ofcource !!! 
  He wants 
 to find exit to this curse, so at first try to make 
  allies and fight his Terrible fate ...
  
  We hope for a sequel ... with Nameless One fight 
 in the blood
  wars and try to attain his greatest wish ... TRUE DEATH and forgiveness
  for his sins ! 
  
  Joker out :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sridanu
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 14, 2009 8:24 am PT
Review:  The first thing that comes to my mind when writing this review is the amount of bugs i encountered 
 when playing this game. Torment is a fantastic RPG game with a captivating storyline but the bugs 
 in the game just made it a hell of a less more enjoyable. For a hard core gamer with a lot of gaming 
 experience on these type of games i found it extremely difficult to finish the game without the 
 help of a walk through. Though out the game there are many occasions where you get stuck just because 
 you cant see a entry point or item. Meaning that the developers have not ironed out the game properly.
 
  
  But nevertheless the game boasts of great graphics and a very captivating storyline. The sad part 
 is that your character model is not customizable which was a big disappointment for me.
  
  Overall if you want to play a smooth game without frying your brains then this is definitely not 
 for you. On the other hand if you are the type that enjoys such challenging situations then Torment 
 will satisfy your needs.
  
  http://gamezopinion. blogspot. com/2009/04/refreshing-game-with-lot-of-bugs. html 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rhcpvisigoth
Rating: 9.9
Date: Aug 12, 2007 1:57 am PT
Review:  I have played almost all the RPGs there are out there, right from Baldur's Gate to Oblivion to 
 Guild Wars. Then there's Diablo, and scores of others.
  
  Planescape was something entirely different. Instead of the usual  
 storyline where the protagonist needs to go on a journey and gather evidence and eventually defeat 
 the source of all evil, Planescape is a journey of self discovery. I played this game after playing 
 all the latest ones so I found that the game lacked a few things, but comparing Planescape to games 
 that came 8 years after it did is hideously unfair. The storyline and the characters are very memorable, 
 though I must say that the game lacks as far as items such as weapons or armor is concerned... 
 the plethora of items in Dungeon Siege only speaks against Planescape.
  
  No matter who you are or what you play, I STRONGLY recommend playing Planescape: Torment. Not only 
 will it grow on you, but you will find yourself playing it over and over again. I only hope other 
 games can achieve the kind of immersive environment that Planescape has... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mslawson
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 10, 2007 12:54 pm PT
Review:  An extremely immersing story line, that allows your actions to influence subtle changes in the 
 characters development. When compared to the Baulders Gate series and similar games of the time, 
 this one stands head and shoulders above the rest.
  Has easily some of the most interesting characters, both playable and NPC, of any game to date.
 
  The inventory system is also much more interesting than that of your standard rpg, with each character 
 having various items specifically for them, the lead character being able to equip tattoos instead 
 of armour, or different eyes in place of a helmet for example.
  This game almost plays out like an interactive novel as you can spend far more time talking through 
 the various situations rather than fighting if you so choose. The dialogue options are extremely 
 vast and can quite oftenly be your best choice on how to deal with many situations. With great 
 characters, superb dialogue, and intriguing story line, and a tried and true gameplay style, i 
 find myself unable to forget about this game despite the years since i first beat it, it is arguable 
 the most memorable game i have ever played, and i believe it to be one of the greatest games ever 
 made. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Caleb367
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 21, 2007 5:38 am PT
Review:  Now, this one gem is what defines Black Isle Studios as a bunch of geniuses, even more than Fallout 
 and Fallout 2.
  Game isn't a good word for this. Torment is an interactive novel wonderfully written, with some 
 of the best characters ever seen either on a PC screen or in several books.
  Graphics are excellently done for its time, gameplay is simple to learn, but where it really shines, 
 it's the sound. A magnificent soundtrack stes the mood perfectly and the voices feel just right, 
 from the raspy, deep, from-beyond-the-grave tone of the Nameless One, to the almost innaturally 
 cold serious words of Dak'kon (Mitch Pileggi, by the way) , and let's not talk about Dan Castellaneta 
 (Homer J. Simpson's voice, if you lived under a rock for the past 20 years) lending his voice to 
 Nordom!
  
  The story... well... it's just amazing. A deep, convoluted, mature tale of a man who literally 
 lost himself. No worlds to save, no damsels in distress, just a desperate search to the answer 
 of a most basic question: Who am I?
  This is not a game for kids or people wanting a quick hack'n'slash session: Torment needs devotion 
 to be played. Speaking of that, it can give some problems when playing in Windows XP (at least, 
 i had some, feel free to PM me if you can't get it to run, i'll try to help as best as i can) .
 
  
  To sum it all: play it. Now. You're missing a piece of art if you don't do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: roadtoady
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 5, 2007 10:38 am PT
Review:  OK, so I waited nearly 8 years to finally play this one, and wow, did it not disappoint! Very cerebral 
 from the very beginning, however, I have to admit that at my more advance gaming age, the necro-atmosphere 
 of the overall game's many settings took some getting used to (all right, so one does not need 
 elves, dwarves and dragons all of the time to make for a good fantasy RPG) . Voice acting holds 
 up even after all of this time, the vintage music and sound effects are very atmospheric and don't 
 detract at all. Graphics are not what one might expect in 2007 from PC games that want to compete 
 with the XBOX/Play Station offerings, but when the gameplay as intense as this is the driving force, 
 this game can be forgiven for the aging visual bells and whistles not being that important. The 
 central issue is that if one wishes to play it all the way thru, this game demands your undivided 
 attention, and thereby, you either become immersed in the story, or, if not, you would probably 
 discard it soon after starting it up. I found myself that once I got into it after a few hours, 
 feeling like I was part of a very detailed fantasy novel, rather than just playing a game where 
 I'd hit the ATTACK button everytime I saw bad guy emerge from the edge of the screen. It is in 
 fact text-heavy at times, but the text is not overbearing, and remains not only crucial, but interesting 
 thru-out. Make no mistake, this is not an easy game, and I would be a hypocrit to admonish anyone 
 who said that they needed the many various available walk-thru's available online to get thru the 
 more difficult parts, but, this game continually surprises and challenges me, and, that to me, 
 is what PC Gaming is all about. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sanchofirestorm
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 4, 2007 4:11 pm PT
Review:  PS: T is to video games as to D&amp; D is to dice.
  
  I have to admit, back in the day when this game came out I was hesitant to pick it up. the planes 
 is one place I did NOT want cooperate America to put it's greedy little paws on, I knew they would 
 Mess it up. Baldur's gate was a pretty fun game, but I thought pretty fun just wasn't good enough.
 
  
  I was so wrong.
  
  first, the graphics. this was in the day where companies where making 3d games where 3d graphics 
 still had a few years to go. for THIS REASON, this game gets a high mark on graphics. things where 
 detailed, magic looked great. the only thing they should have done was made the resolution larger.
 
  
  character selection was easy, unlike baldur's gate. don't get me wrong, I loved minsk and a number 
 of other characters in the gate , but there was simply too many to chose from, and I hated choosing. 
 in this game, every character has enough character (specially morte) to fill in a game by them 
 selfs. it's not like you had to play the game over and over to get the full affect with different 
 characters, the party members you have give the same amount of story as all the characters in Baldur's 
 gate combined. leave behind ignus and get the modrone and you are set.
  
  the only real complaint that I have heard from other people is one of the main reasons I love this 
 game, the game is a book period. you feel a part of the game world, you feel a part of sigil... 
 not just as someone who is giving a quick stroll through the game for a couple of laughs. you get 
 so attached to each of the characters that it rivals any book. because there was so few characters 
 you really get to get in their heads. indeed the game is not a game, but more of a... it's like 
 you are there.
  
  all this without a word on the actual story. there is a reason why so many people love this game. 
 I'm sure you can read a countless other reviews on the story, but this game is really one of the 
 first games to give precedence to the story over everything else. there are side quests (overall 
 there are some 100 quests ) but most tie in directly to the story. and the story itself is INgenious, 
 it rivals ANY OTHER fantasy title, book ... game... movie, you name it.
  
  this game also set the trend apart from what a traditional fantasy role playing game is, but unfortunately 
 few games have followed. now days whenever you hear the word role playing in association to games 
 it's always about how your character is built up, what skills you have, how much hp you have etc... etc.... 
 this is not role playing. sure with D&amp; D you do have the characters stats and feats and whatnot, 
 but that is not what makes the game, role playing means you are taking on the role of another person, 
 you are living their life and your actions and choices in context to the story will affect you. 
 in this game, you don't even have to battle the last boss, you can talk your way out of it... THAT 
 is role playing, your decisions affect the game world.
  
  one last word on this game. the game takes away from the traditional setting for a rpg . whenever 
 most people think of D&amp; D or role playing they think of king and country and all that jazz. 
 Torment takes away from this and places you in a world not many have seen before and shows that 
 fantasy/roleplaying/D&amp; D can come at you in a host of angles.
  
  what can change the nature of a man I know, but do you? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kadaj108
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 3, 2007 9:11 pm PT
Review:  This is one game that makes me miss Black Isle Studios the most. Planescape torment is among the 
 best RPG's i have ever had the opportunity to play. The story is gripping and really makes you 
 want to explore the world around it and know more. The characters are great and memorable even 
 to this day, 8 years later. The graphics are outdated now but looks great for what it was back 
 then. The sound effects were pretty good as well. This was Black Isle at its finest. Even now i 
 wish this would be a world that they would revisit for a new Planescape game.
  
  If you haven't played this game I would encourage you to find it and play it through to the end. 
 Can probably find it on amazon for cheap and hey they will ship it to you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: will98499
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 2, 2007 7:34 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of the original starter games that set up a lot of RPG's to follow. It has a great 
 story line and quite a few ways to do one thing. I loved this RPG, and it's something I still have 
 the urge to play every now and then.
  
  The game is made from the Baldur's Gate series creator, who also made Icewind Dale, and similar 
 games. It has a lot of DnD type of rules on attributes of the characters, so it falls in quite 
 well to fans of DnD.
  
  It also explains mostly everything so you can learn it yourself over time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RomanKingNYC
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 21, 2007 7:23 am PT
Review:  The story and characters are amazing. I finished the game many years ago, but i still think about 
 the characters and their tragic story. No game has touched me more than Torment. I've built 7 computers 
 since 1999 and torment has been transferred to each one. I am planning to purchase a small monitor 
 just so that the 640x480 resolution doesn't look distorted like it does on my Dell 2405FPW. I want 
 to try the evil side this time around... The nameless one rules! In fact it's the only game that 
 made me laugh histerically and then feel very sad a few minutes later. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pailesisthebest
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 13, 2007 12:59 am PT
Review:  Well, I'll hav to say that I never really liked CRPG's... I didn't like computer gaming at all, 
 but the thing I've loved most since I was a little child are good stories, those kind of stories 
 that keep you immersed and not only because of the EVENTS in the plot but also because of the characters 
 or sense of humour.
  
  In that aspect Torment is absolutely PERFECT... and this word has a vast implication. I think it's 
 completely perfect from the beginning to the end. If you take this, put it in a game with an interesting 
 gameplay (despite my un-liking of CRPG's) , some really really good graphics, perfect sounds (they 
 fit perfectly don't you think) , the best world ever made ^^, you'll have torment, simply more than 
 just a game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ark123
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 6, 2007 4:35 am PT
Review:  If I told you that Planescape Torment was a fantasy RPG, you would probably think its another 
 game where you play as some mighty hero, fighting an evil wizrd in order to save the world. And 
 you couldnt be more wrong, Because Torment is one of the deepest, engaging, well-written, and 
 most original role playing games ever made.
  
  You wake up on a stone bed in a mortuary, without any memory of who you are. Before you can gather 
 your thoughts, you meet your first companion: a flying skull. Thats right, the creatures you will 
 travel with are not your common elves, dwarves and orcs, but a skull, an animated suit of armor, 
 a burning man and the like. Together you will begin the quest of finding out who you are, why have 
 you lost your memory, and how is your fate connected to the fate of your companions. The game is 
 played from a top-down perspective, and you control a party of 6 characters. Most of the game consists 
 of dialogue. You can fight your way through, but you will miss most of the plot, and thats a shame, 
 because the plot is nothing short of spectacular. Moreover, the conversation trees are very impressive 
 and every dialogue option will lead to a different response and/or a different alignment change. 
 In this game you dont choose to be lawful good, and then stay the same after you slit someones 
 throat. Here you start as true neutral, and everything you do affects you alignment in one way 
 or another, and your current alignment affects the dialogue with most of the NPCs and determines 
 what weapons you can equip. As you progress through the game, you gather, in a non-linear way, 
 clues that remind you of who you are and slowly regain the memory of your previous self, and never, 
 until the climactic end of the game, you lose interest in knowing what will be next.
  
  The game looks very good for its time : all the locations are rather detailed, and varied. The 
 pictures of the NPCs and creatures in the journal look excellent, and the FMV sequences are very 
 well done. The soundtrack, for the most part, is good, and voice acting, when present, is great. 
 However, a bit more voice acted dialogue couldnt hurt.
  
  Bottomline: Planescame Torment tells an amazing story, and guess what? You are part of it. Travel 
 through many different and original locations, and talk to hundreds of NPCs to uncover who you 
 are. This game definitely defines the role playing in the RPG genre. Very recommended. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MafiaMizo
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 13, 2007 5:10 pm PT
Review:  Planescape: Torment is hard to describe, It's a Game one must experience it to understand it, however 
 I will do my best. Planescape opens a new door for gaming that allows someone to experience a good 
 story instead of just reading or watching it.
  
  The Game:
  Torment is based on the Infinity Engine, the same Engine that powered Baldur's Gate and Icewind 
 dale. Torment is also loosely based on AD&amp; D in terms of saving throws, hit die and so on.
 
  
  Other than the above, Torment is unique in story and setting Allow me to explain:
  There are no Elves, dwarfs, gnomes, Halflings, etc. Sure there are humanoids and super natural 
 beings, But that all adds to make Torment Different than it's counter parts. The Hero of the game 
 is The Nameless One, Woke up in Mortuary with no memories save for flash backs that hardly helps, 
 Tons of scars and tattoos decorate his pale Grey skin. All that he knows is that he gets cut, Burns, 
 crushed and he gets better.
  
  Torment Uniqueness knows no bounds, Companions who help The Nameless one in his quest are Unique 
 themselves, each with his/her story and reasons for helping the Nameless One: A Floating Skull, 
 A Githzerai Who wields a Karach blade, A tiefling thief, A fallen Succubus, A Burning mage, A Modron 
 gone Rouge and Finally a Spirit that might be the Avatar of justice itself. More Unique are the 
 Items: Blood drops that heal wounds, Fly charms that invokes swarms of insects, and even Unique 
 Eyes that can replace normal eyes.
  
  Torment is a Story driven game, a lot of what happens depends on your Dialog choices (Which can 
 be good or evil, lawful or chaotic) , you gain most Xp from recovered memories, quest solving although 
 not limited to fighting monsters. However most of time you will be speaking to city's denizens 
 to learn and advance through the game. There's a lot to read, But since it's written masterfully 
 you'll be hooked and Immersed quickly.
  
  To Add Even more of the Uniqueness, The English used in torment differs a lot from your normal 
 English, it's tricky to understand the words at first, but after an hour or so you'll begin to 
 understand just fine. Now in almost every quest or dialog you have choices, they choices will most 
 of the time alter your alignment, allowing you the choice to proceed in Good, Evil, Lawful or chaotic 
 Alignment. You also can join one of the many factions in the game, some would require a certain 
 alignment to join.
  
  The Nameless One starts out as a Fighter. However there are many trainers who could train him in 
 the Art (Magic) or Thievery. And he is able to switch classes freely. The graphics:
  When the game was released back in 1999. The game's graphics was actually Superb, Each and every 
 character was well animated and made unique, Although the resolution is questionable, you'll soon 
 overlook it when you get into the game. Unlike BG and Icewind however, the game includes a quick 
 bar which allows you to access Spells, Items and special abilities. Magic effects also deserve 
 a praise, Until today I have seen no better spell effects, Higher level spells would actually make 
 the screen darken and the game will pause, to allow you to see the great animation that's been 
 done, some even higher level spells has 'movies' showing their effect. The game doesn't need a 
 powerful system, and Fans has made a lot of fixes and enhancements for it.
  
  Sound:
  Now there's nothing I could say that would be able to describe the game's Music, Suffice to say 
 it blends in perfectly with the game. Sound effects and speech is well done and brings the game 
 to live Making the game a pleasure to one's ears.
  
  Value: Torment offers a great replay value, Simply because there's so much you can do in single 
 play through and much more to in the second, choices are many: Would you be a lawful good fighter? 
 A chaotic good mage? Neutral evil thief? Much combinations can be made, and each play through will 
 be unique.
  
  Bottom line:
  Torment is a shining example of game that is perfect in every sense, If you're a Role-playing fan 
 and haven't played Torment, Then Shame on you! If you aren't than you're you missing out a fine 
 piece of gaming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChaosIncarnate
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 13, 2007 10:13 am PT
Review:  Before you play this game, there are a few things you should know. First off, there are very few 
 pieces of armor, few weapons, and you'll probably spend more time talking than fighting. If you 
 are looking for the next action adventure piece, this probably isn't it. It's run on the infinity 
 engine, so it looks and plays a lot like Baldur's Gate and Icewind Dale, albeit it looks better. 
 The combat that is there is fun and can be challenging, but its certainly not the central focus 
 of the game.
  
  That being said, this game is still amazing. The depth of the plot is incredible, and you'll find 
 yourself talking to the same person for the better part of 10 minutes sometimes because they have 
 so many interesting things to say. For the most part, it plays out like a normal RPG, and you meet 
 random characters along the way to join your adventures. You'll meet the floating skull, a Tiefling 
 girl, a chaste succubus, a crazy man always on fire, a possessed suit of armor obsessed with justice, 
 and more. If you invest the time (and stats) to learn about your allies back story, you'll find 
 that only one person is truly random, and the rest have powerful ties to you and aren't simply 
 helping you for the hell of it like you first think. I can't really explain how without spoiling 
 part of the story, but it's a refreshing change from pretty much all RPG's where people simply 
 join you without much reason. Your conversation related stats, Intelligence Wisdom and Charisma, 
 make a major impact on what you can learn as you play through the game.
  
  If your wondering what the game is about, you wake up in a mortuary with no memory of anything, 
 and along comes a chatty floating skull ready to help you out. If you ask the right questions, 
 you find out your body is covered in tattoo's, and one says not to trust the skull. Do you trust 
 him when you have no one else? It's up to you, and you can eventually solve his mystery, but in 
 any case the game is mostly spent trying to find out what happened to you, why you are immortal 
 and why you can't remember anything. You have a lot to learn too, because apparently you've been 
 running around hundreds of years, and you've had major impacts on many places and people. You don't 
 even have so much as a name, and noone seems to know it. Your referred to as the Nameless One, 
 and he often gives out the alias Adhan. Interestingly, his missing name is integrated into the 
 story, and if you play your cards right you can even learn it eventually, and why you gave it up 
 (it wasn't simply forgotten... and no he didn't simply commit a bad deed and want to forget it) . 
 Why would anyone give up their name and not claim a new one? The plot is full of twists and turns, 
 and crammed full of irony. It's a dark story to be sure, and while not very graphic visually, it's 
 very graphic through its highly descriptive text. You'll often feel like your in a novel that you 
 feel your driving through your actions.
  
  In all I would say the greatest flaw of the game is how hard it is to uncover all there is to know 
 in the game. I've played through more than once, and couldn't always remember how to find out a 
 piece of information. The game even kind of punishes you in a way for not invested everything you 
 have into the conversational skills because it limits what you can learn, but if you like to play 
 as a mage (and ironically they are better fighters than the fighter class anyway) then this is 
 no problem. If this is a problem, you have other fighters or other mages that will join you, to 
 compensate wherever you think you lack. The powerful spells in the game have movies to go with 
 them, so when you cast the spell Mechanus Cannon, you'll see a movie of the Modrons from the plane 
 of Mechanus charging up a gigantic cannon and firing it through a portal to blast away your enemies.
 
  
  As bad as this sounds, I've never been able to find the true words to describe how amazing the 
 story is in this game. It's simply so deep and involved you'll find yourself trying to find out 
 more and even frustrated when the game makes you wait. I've read hundreds of books and this is 
 probably the most enjoyable and lasting story I've read. If you also enjoy reading, you'll find 
 the game's plot not so intrusive. Each party member literally has volumes of backstory, and in 
 fact every Bioware game thats been made since makes references to this game and its story. It's 
 a highly under appreciated game. At the time I write this review, the game is suitably old enough 
 that it only costs $5-$10, so if your hesitant, it's cheap enough now to give it a shot without 
 losing much. The game certainly isn't for everyone, but if you want an amazing unpredictable story 
 full of characters you will literally never forget and will tell your friends about, then play 
 this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fastpunk
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 31, 2008 3:46 pm PT
Review:  The gaming industry moves pretty fast when it comes to graphics and technology. Sadly, the same 
 thing cannot be said about gameplay or story. Yet there are a few exceptions; some games manage 
 to become a bit more then just forms of entertainment. Planescape: Torment is part of that category, 
 maybe even the greatest of them. This game marks a first for me: the first game I rated with a 
 10... it has a few flaws but the story element is so strong and great that it washes away all of 
 them and in the end I think it deserves it through and through.
  
  Yes, it is an old game and the graphics are dated. Planescape: Torment runs at a resolution of 
 640x480 and is powered by a 2D graphics engine (Infinity, the same engine that powered Baldur's 
 Gate series and Icewind Dale series) . For some, that might constitute an insurmountable problem, 
 if that is your case then I pity you. The best way to approach this game is with an open mind.
 
  
  Among the first things you will notice is the unusual level design: a lot of metal and stone, many 
 sharp shapes and many arches and archways. This "look" can be found almost everywhere in the game 
 environments and creates a very coarse feel. It serves as a complement to the overall theme and 
 adds to the immersion factor. Sound and music also play their part in this and both are great. 
 Actually, Torment's soundtrack is probably one of the most breathtaking soundtracks you'll ever 
 hear, no joke! It's such a strange mix of orchestrated melodies, tribal beats and electronic effects, 
 do not play the game with music turned off!
  
  But the thing that contributes the most to immersion is the writing. You'll have to keep your eyes 
 on texts most of the game's time, offering a level of immersion that only a book can offer. The 
 story takes off with you awakening on a slab in a mortuary with nothing but the scars on your back 
 and a talking skull starring curiously. You begin a quest of self-discovery that is crafted with 
 incredible attention for detail and full of memorable moments. Your journey will take you to some 
 strange places as you retrace your past and depending on your actions you will also leave a mark 
 on the world. That's one of the remarkable things about this game, the world is not static, NPCs 
 respond to you differently and there are many situations that can be handled in different ways. 
 The characters you meet are also one the best aspects of the game: it's easy to get attached, each 
 and every one of them has something special, something unusual about them. Also, I've heard people 
 saying "the end is bad, it sucks etc"; I can tell you that there are multiple endings and they 
 reflect your character's emotional stance and choices and I can also assure you that Torment has 
 a proverbial "grand finale"! It's also worth noting that this game breaks a lot of cliches, even 
 death is handled differently here.
  
  But what of the gameplay? Sure, Planescape: Torment is an unusual game but it still uses the Infinity 
 engine which means it is somewhat similar to Baldur's Gate. You don't have as many customization 
 options here but to be perfectly honest, who cares about customization when you've got atmosphere 
 and writing like this. You begin as a fighter class but you can change it by seeking a teacher: 
 you can remain a fighter or you can also choose to become a mage or a thief. The weapons are also 
 unusual, you can fight with bones, with big talons or with huge axes, but no swords (cliche-breaker 
 element) . Also, there are no ranged weapons but you will not need them, specially if you play as 
 a mage. The combat might not be the best you'll ever encounter but the multitude of dialogs and 
 dialog options, coupled with a fascinating setting and a masterpiece of a story make this game 
 one of the best ever made.
  
  It's no use carrying on about how amazing Planescape: Torment is, you have to play it for yourself 
 to see. So my advice is this: if you like a game with a great story or if you like RPGs then play 
 it... and after you do, maybe you can tell me what can change the nature of a man. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Good_Juju
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jun 25, 2007 3:07 pm PT
Review:  Usually when a game has a weird title, is based on an obsolete Dungeons and Dragons rule system, 
 has ugly box art, and is from the previous millennium, you dont buy it. Especially when it isnt 
 even made anymore. This is why you may be a tad skeptical when I tell you to find the best copy 
 of Planescape: Torment you can and start playing it. Torment is a role-playing game (RPG) which 
 takes place in the now-defunct Planescape setting of D&amp; D. Central to the Planescape setting 
 is Sigil, the City of Doors, a place with gates that lead anywhere in existence, provided you 
 have the proper key. This is a place where the word is mightier than the sword, where thought 
 defines reality, [and] where belief has the power to reshape worlds. Sounds pretty cool, doesnt 
 it? And thats not all: the main character is a tattooed, immortal, amnesiac called The Nameless 
 One. After an extremely eerie introductory movie, the game starts with him waking up in a mortuary, 
 as he has apparently just diedagain. The games 100+ hours of game play will take you on a journey 
 to discover The Nameless Ones past, and on a mission that may quite literally be suicide. Many 
 choices you make (such as whether to lie, who to help, etc.) will affect the games ending, on 
 which there are several variations. Players characters can also switch between various professions, 
 so that you can experience the game in various ways. On my first play through I plowed through 
 the game as a brutally strong fighter, but on my second (and trust meyou WILL be playing through 
 again!) I played as an intelligent mage, and the story developed much more rapidly and extensively. 
 Dialogue will also differ depending on what kind of character you are, so that intelligent mage, 
 for example, will have many more (and more satisfying) choices as to what to say, and thus will 
 uncover more in the game As in almost all RPGs, several characters will join you on your quest. 
 Notable among them: a dirty-talking, floating skull, a robot with a few screws loose, and a haunted 
 suit of armor. The Nameless One will be able to learn skills from them, and also have conversations 
 (I guarantee that youll never get enough of Morte, the talking skull) . Although the Nameless One 
 should be able to handle all the fights on his own near the games end, youll want to have your 
 party members hang around just for the entertainment they provide. This game is not a typical RPG, 
 but I think players will find it interesting. Di Lou, formerly of Computer Gaming World, called 
 it An RPG that respected the gamers intelligence. Several Amazon. com reviewers praised its philosophic 
 content, and one called it a blend of literature and gaming. All though it may be a tad strange 
 for some, or perhaps a bit dated for others (these are Baldur's-Gate-esque Infinity Engine graphics, 
 after all) I would highly recommend that you check this game out if you can find a copy anywhere. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alecu
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 27, 2007 1:47 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the few games that offers a unique storyline. What I liked about the game what that 
 it doesn't focus on action and exaggerated pointless fantasy that we see in most modern games. 
 The hole story actually has substance being based on a philosophical concept. You start out with 
 no memory of what you were along with your first companion, a flying head. Throughout the game you 
 gather companions and most importantly you discover clues about who you were. Death isn't an issue 
 here because he is immortal adding more to the originality of the game. There are no elves, dwarves 
 and all the other popular fantasy races. Just humans and demons which didn't bother me at all. 
 In fact it made the game more interesting, because some demons that you meet aren't evil at all 
 and just like the humans they have a well developed character. Each has his own story and his well 
 defined character. Hence, sometimes you spend quite some time investigating their past which proves 
 to be rewarding. Most of the time you can earn more experience from quests if you abandon the classic 
 find and kill technique. Which is why you have to think a lot. There are many ways to solve quests 
 and intelligence and wits can help a lot. They add more dialog options or enable new quests which 
 is a big plus for the game. And the hole story focuses mostly on the character. It's not the traditional 
 save the world through courage and cleverness. Though it doesn't seem ,it's vastly superior than 
 this which is the main thing that kept me hooked to this game. Too bad people prefer MEDIOCRE games 
 like the all too popular Elder Scrolls IV Oblivion which surpasses Planescape only in graphics. 
 But this doesn't matter considering the fact that oblivion was made in 2006 and planescape in 1999. 
 That over 7 years distance between the two games. But considering the  
 gameplay Planescape is much better. It doesn't take good graphics and exaggerated publicity to 
 make a good game. And this game proves it. In fact most of these games are addressed to the masses 
 which hate to think a lot and instead prefer to point and click or just press keys like hell . 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wolverine_r
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 24, 2007 9:28 pm PT
Review:  Planescape Torment is a traditional computer role-playing game from Black Isle Studios, developers 
 of the highly acclaimed Fallout series. But while the Fallout series contained a post-apocalyptic, 
 futuristic setting, Torment features one of the favorite settings for cRPGs, Advanced Dungeons 
 and Dragons. Despite choosing a setting familiar to most traditional RPG players, the developers 
 do a great job in weaving one of the best stories ever told in a role-playing game that will have 
 you questioning your own actions at every turn and that is what makes Torment a truly outstanding 
 game.
  
  In Torment you play a truly out of the ordinary protagonist. You are not a charismatic hero blessed 
 with the powers of all Gods out to save the Earth; you are The Nameless One. You are horribly 
 scarred and not only are you immortal but have also lost all your memories from previous deaths. 
 You awaken in the Mortuary of all places and beginning from there your quest is to find out who 
 you are, who you were and why you cannot die? As these questions begin to play in your mind, you 
 begin to develop an almost personal bonding with The Nameless One and by the end you feel like 
 you are more part of an experience created by yourself than a game created by a developer.
  
  It is not only you, The Nameless One, who is extraordinary but every character in your party 
 is just the same. Your party contains everyone from a talking skull, to a fiend with a bad attitude 
 to a mage burning in flames to a walking armor suit who believes everyone will get their justice. 
 As a result of the games great writing, you get to know about each of the characters in your party 
 intimately and begin to care for them unlike most other games where they are passers-by more than 
 anything. The great thing is that your party members will react differently depending on whether 
 you are good or evil and your level of interaction will be varied depending on your moral alignment 
 which really makes you choose your actions with greater care.
  
  The only part of the game where D&amp; D comes of any use is in character creation and combat. You 
 can play either as a Fighter, a Mage or a Thief. Though owing to the main characters immortality 
 playing as a Fighter is considerably easier than playing as a Mage or a Thief. And at any point 
 in the game, you can switch between these classes easily and it makes perfect sense in the context 
 of the game given the protagonist is an amnesiac. Combat is one of the noticeable flaws in the 
 game, the only saving grace being there is not a lot of it. From playing the game, one can clearly 
 make out combat was not in the developers mind from the first point. Since this is a D&amp; D game, 
 all of the attacks are calculated as Dice Rolls, though these take place under the hood and the 
 only indication that you have made contact is a small spot of blood from your enemys body and 
 a small text displaying the amount of damage done. Given that the early portions of the game contain 
 very few healing items, most people (especially spellcasters) will want to avoid combat early in 
 the game. All in all, combat could be one major area which many people will complain about in the 
 game.
  
  Comparing Torments graphics with the standards set by todays games like Oblivion would be simply 
 unfair. But considering that the game is almost 9 years old and based on an even older Infinity 
 Engine, Planescape still looks average only. Some of the spell effects like Cone of Cold, Fire 
 and Ice and many others still look dazzling considering the games age and there are some other 
 neat effects like when you see a huge Abhishai in front of you, it will look like it towers above 
 you. Overall, the games graphics does its job quite well but you wouldnt even care about the 
 graphics even if you feel it is average as you will be engrossed by the games awesome story.
 
  
  Considering the fact that most role-playing games have great sound, Torment can be considered a 
 disappointment. Some of the sound tracks in the game are awesome but there are very few of them 
 so by the end of the game you will hear some of the same tracks looping again and again and this 
 can really put off some people. Some of the sound in the combat sections of the game is very nice 
 and it does well to set the mood for some of the bigger battles in the game and other neat little 
 effects like when you are inside some house or an underground tunnel you would hear the voices 
 lower than ordinary and also hear it echo inside the place are very good. The voice acting in the 
 game is very well done, the only irritating fact being it is few and far between. But when you 
 do hear the characters speak their voices and it happens only during some of the important dialogue 
 in the game it is very good.
  
  The game's interface is rather well designed than most other isometric RPGs. The onscreen action 
 is much closer to your perspective than other isometric games like Baldurs Gate. The interface 
 is not the best but is easy to get used to. Every time you want to choose a special item, spell 
 or weapon, you right click anywhere on the screen to bring up a smaller menu from where you can 
 perform your actions easily. The bad thing about this interface being it opens up right in the 
 middle of the screen covering your characters but the good thing is that the game is automatically 
 paused when you bring up this interface. Overall, you will definitely get used to this interface 
 easily especially if you have played other Infinity based RPGs like Baldurs Gate 1 and 2.
  
  Notwithstanding the games graphics and sound, the best part of Torment is actually in its 
 written dialogue and there is a whole lot of it. The best part of the writing is that it never 
 gets boring or tiring to read because of its incredible quality. Some subtle dialogues in the game 
 do a greater job in setting the mood than onscreen action ever would have. For example, you would 
 be in a dark alley and suddenly one of your party members will say What a stinking place to be 
 in! and this also helps in character development as you would grow to care about your party members 
 because of it. The developers officially claim there are more than 1 million words in the game 
 and I can safely say that you would not even see all of it in the first play through since most 
 of the dialogue options only open up depending on your stats. The dialogues play an important role 
 in your alignment and because you can be good or evil or shades in-between, you will want to choose 
 your words carefully. Since you see many characters in the game and read lots of dialogues, you 
 would find yourself going back to think what little dialogues earlier in the game actually meant 
 in the wider context of the games story and it is kudos to Chris Avellone and his team for integrating 
 the dialogues this tightly to the role-playing aspect of the game rather than relying on combat 
 and action for developing the story.
  
  In spite of having this many likable qualities and one of the best stories in an RPG, Torment didnt 
 break any sales records and that is primarily due to the fact that there are many minor things 
 which one could nitpick about in the game. There are many bugs in the game which slows the game 
 to a crawl and makes the game nearly unplayable during some of the important sections in the game. 
 Many quests could never be finished because of bugs and though many patches were released they 
 never fixed all of the games problems and this was the main reason for the games quite ordinary 
 sales. Other things you can complain about are the games quite average sound and the fact that 
 only some of the dialogues were actually voiced but these minor problems in no way reduce the quality 
 of what is a great game by all accounts.
  
  Planescape Torment features an amazing cast of characters right from the protagonist to the people 
 surrounding him, an awesome storyline, nice combat and above all a highly replayable campaign to 
 boot. The first time play through will take you about 20-25 hours to finish give or take the number 
 of side-quests you choose and since there are alternate endings and whole different paths which 
 you can choose depending on whether you want to be good or evil, the game offers further incentive 
 to go back at least a second time if not more. Though, there is no way to stop after you have finished 
 the game twice or even thrice as you will eventually get addicted to The Nameless Ones adventure 
 and never stop playing it. Torment is one of those rare gems that comes once in a while to surprise 
 everyone with its originality and that is the main reason anyone who has not yet played this amazing 
 title should get down to it right now. Take my word for it, it is just that good. Go find yourself 
 a copy of this game and see what youve missed for the past 9 years. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kingrich06
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 13, 2007 10:18 am PT
Review:  My friend was talking about a great RPG game he was playing. At the time it I was playing Dungeon 
 Siege. I actually stopped playing Dungeon Siege and started playing this. I don't know why but 
 this game is so addictive. I am the type of person who likes leveling my character as high as possible. 
 Although doing that made the game alot easier, still this game has a inventive story line. The 
 quests were not too hard. Even though I will not play this again (too many good games to play) , 
 I strongly recommend to others who want a solid single player RPG. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shrike
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 28, 2006 3:08 pm PT
Review:  I have already posted my full review and remembrance of the game on my profile blog, but I feel 
 this game deserves another long overdue review on my part. For those of you who enjoy to buy and 
 purchase older games and enjoy the old school, more gameplay focused experience, and who don't 
 mind some date graphics, then this is the gem you have been searching for. I cannot properly explain 
 in words how wonderful this game is. Although the games graphics are dated, due to their artfully 
 drawn style, they hold up surprisingly well. The sound is a bit of a let down because they only 
 have very small scores and very little spoken dialogue. However, what's there is pretty good, and 
 after a while you really don't mind the reading of all the wonderful text in the game. Now the 
 gameplay is your standard top-down RPG fare. Diablo style action but without having to click over 
 and over again to attack. However, the fighting has a certain bite to it. Every time you score 
 a critical hit, the screen shakes a bit and a heavy chord sounds. Little touches add to the weight 
 of the fighting making you feel the attacks. Although there isn't much in terms of magical spells 
 and such, each of the character's styles and fighting moves are very different and very exciting 
 to watch. And, as with everything else in the game, the gameplay is incredibly stylish. Getting 
 tattoos increases your skills, a special attack is a book of curses that you grow and get better 
 with as you talk more and more in the game, hell one of the characters (Morte) can equip a woman's 
 teeth in lieu of his own for better attacks. But frankly, all of this is nothing compared to what 
 really matters, the story and the characters. Expect to find each of these characters to be absolutely 
 incredible and unique, and expect to completely be wrapped up in them. And the story... well I can't 
 give anything away, but it's epic beyond belief, yet manages to remain small by focusing in on 
 the mysterious origins of your main character (The Nameless One) , who has some huge secrets that 
 you would never expect. In short, this game is a miracle of game making with a unique style that 
 creates its own world. I would try to compare it to other top-down RPG's like Baldur's Gate, but 
 it's so unique, that it stands as a game that walked its own path towards greatness. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gatsubzk
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 21, 2008 3:08 pm PT
Review:  Masterpiece word can't describe enough what the Black Isle Studios people developed. If you enjoyed 
 FFIII, Chrono Trigger, FFVII (Square rpg in general) , Baldur's gate II and all others Black Isle 
 Studios great rpg's you'll see that PLANESCAPE TORMENT is in a much higher level and in that level 
 only P. T. takes it well deserved place. In the early of the XX century the television showed it 
 to us a new conception of entertainment, later the vhs, cds, dvds, Virtual Reality, video games, 
 powerfull processors etc... and the "PLANESCAPE TORMENT". Clearly it's the best thing that the human 
 being could have made with the digital and eletronic world of entertainment. When i knew that Black 
 Isle Studios was gone i got very frustrated. Well the texts, dialogs, story and everything else 
 about this game is just perfect. Fallout 3 and Torment
  2 will be made one day i really hope but without the superb Black Isle Studios guys
  (Torment) 
 and the Interplay staff (Fallout) i'm sure it'll not be the same.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dmso12
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 10, 2006 4:55 pm PT
Review:  There are 49 other reviews on this site that say the same thing, but I loved this game SO MUCH 
 that I am just writing a mini-review here that says 1) Almost a decade later, there has not been 
 an RPG made with a story that is BETTER than what is found in Planescape: Torment
  
  2) This is a thinking person's game - don't get it for the combat, get it for the discovery and 
 role-playing aspects
  
  3) If you like cRPG you probably already have this, but if you are new to gaming then by all means, 
 buy this game!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cmpunmu3
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 10, 2006 6:53 am PT
Review:  All the mystery starts from the beginning. You wake up in morgue, ou don't know what's happening 
 and why, only the visions in the mind reveal the lost the lost time gaps in the memory, it's hard 
 to understand who you are but the help from external sources build a path for completion of understanding 
 about your purpose and targets, that have further information for the way out of this cursed circle. 
 There are people that will follow you by asking to join you for unknown reason, either they're 
 looking for something that you seek, or want to learn more about you or... spying on you? There 
 are many decisions to be made with different consequences, sometimes even if you think this is 
 unacceptable for a sane person to do, still you have to go for that one - no other choice for your 
 eternal body, but a single mind in the need of aid. Bravery is not the only answer, not everyone 
 understands a brutal way out of the specific situation - so many different experience to acquire 
 and the test of your will. What seems lost to you returns in a while if a trying was not in vain. 
 What i found original, is that the purchased items in shops had an influence in revealing the mysteries 
 around you. The order of completing specified quest was also an interesting thing - some of them 
 was a really difficult puzzle to solve. Some of the music here deserves a high-class rating comparing 
 with the ones that's being created now. The story here is mysterious and confusing at times, the 
 dialogues mostly are fun to read, because of the crazy people roaming the streets of these seemingly 
 familiar places. Anyone can be your friend or foe, you'll never know, until you learn it yourself. 
 Combat system is easy, pause button helps you decide who to beat up first: the mad mage, that is 
 surrounded by his companions, or the pesky companions first. One more convenient thing is is that 
 some of the attacking magics makes everyone freeze around, and then makes an attack. Have fun with 
 this game - you'll certainly will. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cymbol
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 21, 2006 2:36 am PT
Review:  I had very fond memories of this game when it first came out, and after six years, decided to give 
 it another try as memories sometimes play tricks, and certain things are only good the first time.
 
  
  Not so with this game. You play an immortal with lost memories, trying to recover his past and 
 his purpose. In the course, you meet up with old friends, and combat powerful enemies, with each 
 clue increasing the complexity of the story and leaving you musing at many 'what if's.
  
  The graphics may be old, and the main character may be ugly, but the story is one of the most interesting. 
 With over one million words to read, this is a graphic novel and an RPG rolled into one. The title 
 may not be the best game ever made, but is certainly the most under-appreciated.
  
  Give it a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mussumbranco
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 6, 2006 6:48 pm PT
Review:  This game is necessary for any player who wants to see what games are made of. The answer is Planescape: 
 the stuff that dreams are made of. Isometric Rpg still haven&acute; t been overpowered by 3d, and 
 this is game is one of the reasons why you can&acute; t get the same level of excitement in a tri 
 dimensional design. The graphics are incredible, great gameplay, great story, its all about the 
 story really. The rest is rest. It takes a train to laugh, it takes a train to cry (don&acute; t 
 forget to check out fallout 2, another masterpiece) .
  play the game play the game play the game play the game!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ianmoroni
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 27, 2006 2:24 pm PT
Review:  Planescape: Torment was one of the games that took longer from the time I bought it until I Actually 
 started to play. When I bought it, the PC I had at the time couldn't support the game, it was only 
 a few years later (when I finally threw away my windows ME) that I started to play it. Well, every 
 second waiting was worth it. Until today I found no other game that had such a great story. I pent 
 hours playing, and still, never get tired.
  
  The story is magnafically construceted, in a way you never gets tired of it. Every action has a 
 reaction, and every reaction affects you and the others around you. Especcially you.
  
  Thae game is unique in many aspects. One of the most interesting one is yourself. Your character 
 actually. Unlike most RPG, you et few customization of it. You may change your starting attributes 
 and that's it. No portrait, no name change, no class selection, nothing. And that is one of the 
 best things they could ever make.
  
  Why? Because you're the Nameless One. You have absolute amnesia, and remember absolutely nothing 
 aobut yourself, or your life. And that's is just the beggining of one of the most unique stories 
 I've ever seen. It is not an story about "How to save (or destroy) your world", as happens in most 
 games.
  
  You have no greater quest. The God's don't look after you for help. People don't have any idea 
 of who you are. You simply must discover who you REALLY is. And why you never die, anyway you want.
 
  
  That is another of the greatest points in the game: anyway you want. Nearly all the puzzles in 
 the game have at least 2 solutions, and you may go throught the game nearly without fighting if 
 you want.
  
  WIch brings us to another aspect of the game: the combat system. In essence, it's the same as the 
 one found in Baldur's Gate engine, as well as the graphics.. The greatest difference is that you 
 control your actions trought a radial menu, that resembles a lot the one from Neverwinter Nights 
 engine. I would say that the Torment engine was the transition beetwen both engines.
  
  The dialogs a're amusingly well constructed and incredbly envolving. But, be aware, if you want 
 to play Torment, you must be ready to read a lot. Dialogs give crucial information resolve most 
 of your quests, or even to solve then at all. The game has lots of other amusing caracteristics. 
 But, it would take too long to describe then all, so I'll restrain myself to two of then.
  
  The frist is the world where you play: Planescape. this is one of the most curious scenarios 
 in the Dungeons & dragons world. It's an demy plane that acts as a connection to all the other 
 planes in existence. It's all a question of triggering the right portal with the right key (that 
 may be anything, form a key itself to a kiss of lovers, or cheating someone, or a certain date, 
 etc...) . As such, there is a countless number of diffent spicies coming from everywhere in existence, 
 and a few of the native form Planescape itself. creating an unique assortment of characters.
  
  Wich bring us your party. It is one of the most unusual partys you will ever seen. It consists 
 of characters as a flying skull, a good demon, an creature I've enslaved in one of your previous 
 lives, and, as such, is still bonded to you, an fire elemental, an construct, and, of course, you, 
 an undying being, that knows nothing about itself. As you can see, it's an world with endless possibilities 
 of adventuring. A few of then have been extremely well explored in Planescape: Torment, making 
 it one of the best games ever made until today, in my opinion. Nowadays, it's graphic engine is 
 overly superated. Still, it's storyline is not. That alone keeps the game in my favorites list. 
 I realy hope that biore someday makes a remake of this game, or, at least, makes one game with 
 an storyline as good as the one in planescape. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: heavylurker
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 25, 2006 8:31 pm PT
Review:  
  Torment has a lot of enduring qualities: the story, the characters, the sound, the music, the setting 
 ... so far only the graphics are a bit behind current games, but RPG's don't necessarily have to 
 rely heavily on graphics anyway. In Torment, any lack of details in the graphics are compensated 
 by detailed, apropriate text found in the conversations of the characters, the journals, and the 
 information of the items. This will make casual gamers cringe, but for us tired with the same old 
 (and basically eye-candy) formula of most RPG, it is one of those games that is still enjoyable 
 (and will still be) for years to come. 
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: megafeck
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 17, 2006 10:31 am PT
Review:  Torment takes a dark ride through the unusual worlds of the Planescape multi-verse. With the familiar 
 feel of Dungeons and Dragons this game escapes the cliches of playing the effete elves and dour 
 dwarves to really give you a something new to explore. It also has a story line with considerable 
 depth. And since this is a Role-playing game the story is what is important.
  
  Torment uses the same technology that made Interplay's earlier innovation Balder's Gate such a 
 big hit with it's stunningly rendered backgrounds and clearly defined elements. You get to play 
 up to six characters at the same time, exploring this truly unique setting while delving into the 
 characters pasts and personalities. You begin as The Nameless one, an enigmatic semi-immortal with 
 a bad case of amnesia. Waking up in a city Mortuary after dying once again, you join up with Morte, 
 a talking skull with an encyclopedic memory who you can't really trust. And it just gets weirder 
 from there. You can fight or talk your way through much of the game giving a more non-linear feel 
 to the game. Another improvement to the world of computer role-playing is that your dialogue options 
 really do increase if the Nameless one has a high intelligence score and this has a tangible impact 
 on the course of the game. Basically this means a better replay value even after you trek through 
 the entire 4 discs worth of Planescape. One thing that may frustrate some is the tendency to close 
 off some of your options and side quests by saying the wrong thing to the wrong person- but that's 
 all part of the fun.
  
  This game does have a pretty steep learning curve, and is quite long so it is directed at the serious 
 role-player. There is not a lot of instruction in the tiny black and white manual that comes with 
 the game, and some of the elements of the game are not exactly intuitive. For example you can pick 
 up tattoos with special abilities for various characters just as you can pick up magic rings or 
 use a severed arm as a club- but using the special abilities from a tattoo is pretty much a mystery 
 until you figure it out for yourself. Another problem with the game is that you can get pretty 
 frustrated when you are faced with a puzzle you can't figure out. The game is non-linear so you 
 should be able to wander into another area, but there are some places where a puzzle or a test 
 does bottlenecks the progression of the game.
  
  This game has made many improvements from Balder's Gate, but not everyone will love them all. First 
 of all Torment is shorter, but it's characters are not as limited by experience points or level. 
 This means your fighters will be stronger, your thieves become sneakier and you mages will cast 
 more powerful spells- up to level 9! You still end up running delivery quests, but they are more 
 complex and contribute more to the overall story line. And while the characterization and story 
 lines are amazing in Torment, Interplay had to get rid of multi-player options in order to make 
 all the game features work so seamlessly. Since Dungeons and Dragons has historically been a group 
 activity this may torture some hard core group gamers, especially those of you who love playing 
 Balder's Gate and Diablo over the net. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: world69star69
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 5, 2006 4:17 pm PT
Review:  I bought Torment maybe a year after it came out in 2000, I had also got The orignal Bauldurs gate 
 as well at the time! Both were great! Torment stuck out though as beening unique and immersive 
 full of twists and turns that are rare for rpgs anymore. The game appealed to all your senses. 
 You had to think and solve problems. The vombat, although not the focus of the game thankfully, 
 was done well and you had incredible depth here with high level spells and unique npc abilities. 
 The story and npcs are what stick out to me the most. Lets see... you are the Nameless one, you 
 start off on a mourge table in a mortuary covered in scars and strang tatoos, about to be desected 
 by a zombie mourtary worker. You gain assitance by a talking floating skull named morte who gives 
 comic releif and witty remarks throughout the game. 
  
  You have amnesia and don't know a thing about yourself. Using modifies 2nd edition ADand D rules 
 every stat means something, even stats like charisma (determines what reactions you get from npcs 
 ) , wisdom ( reveals more flashbacks and gives more expearience) and intelligence (more dialog options 
 as well as the standard spell stuff) influence play, unlike most rpgs that are more combat hack 
 and slash focused. You journey through one of the strangest uniquely created world"s" ever created 
 starting in sigel the city of doors... doors to where... everywhere... who knows... some lead to the 
 other planes upper and lower (celestail heavens, Gehenna, Limbo, 9 hells, the lands of the dead 
 etc.) the elemental planes where traditional rules of things aren't always what they seem, and 
 to other places in sigil or to other realms or planets. But all doors have keys they could be an 
 object a tune you hum anything, and they aren't always in the same place or always revealed. It 
 is an amazing incredibly crafted, , twisted world of worlds!!!
  Some other characters you will meet are a Succubus with a sexual problem, a tiefling rouge (half 
 demon ) with an attitude problem, ingus a man scorched in ever burning flkame, a githyankari with 
 his energy blade of thought ( fighter/mage with thought powers) and many more. All are voiced acted 
 by talented Hollywood talents that most will recognize. And each has there own stories that are 
 intermingled with your own, and your choices decide the fate of what happens or which ones you 
 recruit to help you or kill them off right, morals are of your choosing and as you play you begen 
 to develope an alighnment based on what you choose throughout the game. Even items have personalities 
 as well as the varied non playable npcs throughout the game. 
  All in all this game is a masterpiece that should not be misssed by anyone who calls themselves 
 a crpg fan. It merges elements of adventure and action rpgs into a spellbinding classinc true to 
 what roleplaying really is, toatlally dynamic and open ended to a degree. Developers need to take 
 note on what Blake Isle did with this game, and make something new along these lines to go with 
 this style game. For the time it came out the graphics were great highly detailed 2d artwork, but 
 can you imagine a game using the Oblivion engine and the depth and scope of planescape torment! 
 I would pay over $100 for a game like that!! GIve this a go you must you will not be disapointed! 
 I garuntee it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DJ_Lae
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 27, 2006 3:34 pm PT
Review:  The two main RPG styles are rarely broken - Japanese RPGs love their part fantasy part sci-fi settings 
 with tween characters and Western ones are quite content with their monogomous relationship with 
 Dungeons & Dragons. Occasionally you get a game that tiptoes out of such a description, but not 
 very often. That in itself is enough reason to take a peek at Planescape: Torment, as while it 
 carries D&D designation it takes that setting (and even style of gameplay) and warps it. With excellent 
 results.
  
  Torment is a role-playing game in every sense, and it's arguably the game's greatest strength. 
 While there is unavoidable combat it isn't frequent, and there are large portions of the game that 
 involve nothing but playing your character in a city full of interesting people. Whether you act 
 good or evil or somewhere in between is entirely up to you.
  
  You play as the Nameless One, a hideously scarred immortal with absolutely no recollection of who 
 he is. This fuels the story, as you are constantly discovering things about his past, and the gameplay, 
 as you cannot die. It also defies any genre conventions, as your character is definitely not a 
 young, handsome, charismatic hero.
  
  D&D peeks in via character classes, as you can play as a warrior, thief, or mage, depending on 
 your preference (and you can switch through at will during the game if you want) . Ultimately it 
 makes no difference, although the game is certainly easier to play as a warrior - and being immortal 
 means that those combat-oriented sections are do-able simply by charging the Nameless One ahead 
 and killing a couple of enemies, dying and respawning, and then repeating the procedure. Your party 
 members can be involved in combat, but as none of them are immune to death and healing items are 
 in short supply, there is a strong incentive to simply pull them back most of the time. It doesn't 
 help that very few characters actually have healing spells, and most areas do not allow resting 
 to regain HP. Healing items and judicious use of the Nameless One are key.
  
  All of your potential party members are extremely interesting, well-voiced (voiceovers are a bit 
 too rare, though) , and have fairly deep backstories. Some are obviously more prominent than others, 
 but none could be called boring. They range from Morte, a hovering skull, to Ana, a half-fiend, 
 to a perpetually burning mage, walking computer, succubus-turned-cleric, and more. Some join automatically 
 and others require more devious methods to enlist.
  
  The meat of the game lies in interacting with characters and reading text. Sounds boring, doesn't 
 it? It's not. There are many varied quests, usually with alternate ways of completing them (often 
 these are good/evil variants) , many areas, and a lot of interesting characters with much to say. 
 Dialogue exchanges are extremely well-written, as are the text descriptions of certain areas. There 
 is an awful lot of writing in the game, to be fair, and often it feels like you're in an interactive 
 novel rather than a game. This is in no way a bad thing unless you absolutely hate reading, of 
 course, as Planescape: Torment is one of the best written games, period. You will care about the 
 Nameless One, be interested in his story and those of your party members, and talk to each and 
 every named NPC in the various areas just to see what they have to say.
  
  The fact that the game lets you be good or evil or in-between is just a bonus. It's not half-assed, 
 either, or as blatant as other games that advertise such a feature. Even simple questions from 
 NPCs can often be answered six or seven different ways, depending if you want your character to 
 lie or otherwise deceive someone. Little things like this creep in to affect your alignment, which 
 in turn affects how people treat you. Even being completely evil is a viable way to play the game 
 and will result in noticably different interactions with people.
  
  If any complaints could be leveled at the game it's that the combat is somewhat unsatisfying (it's 
 very similar to other Infinity-engine games such as Baldur's Gate and Icewind Dale) and the overall 
 length is short. But the length becomes much less of an issue given the replayability, as due to 
 different alignments and the wealth of quests (and alternate endings) you'll certainly see something 
 new the second time. Of course, there won't be any way you can just play the game once, anyway. 
 It infects you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Limonadi
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 18, 2006 12:55 pm PT
Review:  As all RPG's should, Planescape: Torment's story is nothing short of amazing, but saying anything 
 about it would be giving too much away. You really need to find it out for yourself to get the 
 most out of it, though I will tell you it won't be dissapointing.
  
  The graphics are about the only acceptable complaint that can be made about this game, and that's 
 only because they were made so long ago. At it's time, it was amazing; today however, it's acceptable. 
 That's not to say they're bad, but it really doesn't matter when everything else is amazing.
  
  As compared to other games like Baldur's Gate and Icewind Dale, Planescape: Torment is much 
 more about the story than combat. There are few items and armor to collect, instead the items have 
 great stories as well. Combat is similar to Baldur's Gate and Icewind Dale as well, though it is 
 much easier.
  
  If you're an RPG fan, chances are you probably own Planescape: Torment, if you don't, get it now! 
 You might be able to find it for 10 dollars in a 2-pack with a game called Soulbringer, which is 
 ok. I would definintly recommend this game to anyone who enjoys a good story being most of the 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkAnxiety
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 23, 2006 12:42 pm PT
Review:  Alright i'm gonna make this as short and sweet as i can for two reasons: 1. I'm not the best writer 
 and 2. i want you to go out and get this game now, not waste time reading a long review.
  
  Planescape: Torment is set in the planes of the Dungeons and Dragons universe. Starting in Sigil 
 you play the role of the Nameless One an immortal who has appeared to have died one too many times. 
 With a band of misfits, each with their own personal torments, you set out on your quest to find 
 your identity , the reason why you are immortal and why someone is sending shadows to kill you.
 
  
  This game is completely story driven, combat only exists to give you something to do while you're 
 not immersed in the story, which moves forward using an array of NPC conversations, cut scenes, 
 cinematics and flashbacks. The Flashbacks are a result of you slowly regaining your memory which 
 is sparked by the touch, sight and sound of certain objects and people, it is advisable to increase 
 your wisdom when you can to improve the frequency of these flashbacks. The story itself is so immersing 
 that like a very good book you become a part of it, at one point in the game there is an emotional 
 exchange between the Nameless One and another character that touched me so very deeply and brought 
 me near tears, but then i might be soft.
  
  Yes the graphics werent all that great when it came out and it's aged a lot since then but for 
 me this is trivial. Games these days are all graphics and no substance, this game is all substance 
 and little graphics so which is better? If you go for the first one i feel very sorry for you! 
 :P
  
  This game is well worth the 30 quid i paid for it when if first came out but you can pick it up 
 for less than 10 these days, it's a bargain go get it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HeavensCataract
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 15, 2006 1:52 pm PT
Review:  With a compelling storyline and the occasional multicoloured characters, and in the vain of other 
 Black Isle games, is one of the best RPGs in a long time, ie, Planescape: Torment. Overall gameplay 
 is outstanding, with good replay value (not so much as Diablo) makes you wanna play it again and 
 again. A must have for RPG fans (and of course BG fans) . Everything is superb about the game (so 
 nothing to complain about) , so go grab the game NOW and be prepared to go for constant eye-check 
 ups and the occasional sleep.
  
  Thanks Black Isle, hope theres a follow up, or something similar to Planescape 
::::::

::::::
UserName: imaginate
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 9, 2006 4:06 pm PT
Review:  I put this game down twice before getting into the meat of it. Once I did, the trap was sprung, 
 and I couldn't get enough of it. The story line is the best I have seen to date, and you can't 
 help but be drawn into caring about the characters.
  Along with this, there's plenty of action to go around, but beware the decisions you make. They 
 will come back to haunt you, whether you're good or evil or somewhere in between.
  
  If any game out there deserves a well-written sequel, with up to date graphics,
  this is a clear 
 winner. Pick it up and enjoy the ride 
::::::

::::::
UserName: easy0neasy0ff
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 3, 2006 6:06 am PT
Review:  Classics like Planescape make me believe that there might still be people like me out there that 
 like total immersion, and limitless options, and minute details to pine over. Why couldn't Bioware 
 and Interplay team up again, WHY . . . ok . . . that aside I will continue.
  Planescape came on the heels of some very successful PC gaming revolutions like its cousin 'Baldur's 
 Gate ' but never got the recognition it deserved. This game was almost fully realized and so much 
 thought was put into its making. I would challenge anyone to find a game with more dialog that 
 comes attached with not only a story , but background, and reply options that will make you sit 
 for a while thinking "What would my RP character say at a time like this". Classic dialog lines 
 like -
  Fall-from-Grace: You know, Nordrom, you are perhaps the cutest little rogue modron I have ever 
 encountered. 
  Nordom: 'Cutest' is a subjective term. I prefer the designation "fearsome cubed warrior". 
  Fall-from-Grace: 
 Of course! That's why you're so cute. 
  - make this game gold in my book. Every character had strength and weaknesses that were more than 
 mere number rolls, it was like they lived and breathed in this little pocket dimension on my PC. 
 The engine was actually pretty extensive for its time but the sound borrowed heavily from other 
 bioware games, and the global visuals such as clothing options where almost non existent. As far 
 as character classes and attributes this game takes every part of your character into count. Wanna 
 sneak through a fight , sure . . . wanna talk your way through a fight , sure . . . wanna beat 
 everything into submission , ok but you might have actually benefited more from finding a peaceful 
 solution, who knows. Thats the beauty of it. High wisdom characters can gain more from their experience 
 which equals more
  earned xp from completing objectives or more dialog options for NPCs. Strong characters can bash 
 locks meant for theives; thieves can back stab and one shot bosses that fighters cant get close 
 to. The music and ambience is engrossing to a point where you might just pause the game and let 
 it play in the back ground while you do house chores. There are very few things about this game 
 that I could complain about. A few missions seemed nearly impossible to complete for varied reasons 
 ranging from 'i have no idea where im going now' to the ever popular 'I've thrown away something 
 i needed and i cant go back and get it'. Little gripes like these can be avoided by saving in many 
 spots and saving frequently. I think anyone who never attempted to tackle this game should go out 
 and hunt a copy down. And don't forget to watch out for 'fearsome cubed warriors' at the game store. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SacrificiaLamb
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 3, 2006 10:20 am PT
Review:  All I can say is that no game has made more of an impact on me than this one.
  
  The characters are extremely well written and are equally unusual and unique. A floating skull 
 that talks smack, a long-dead Mercykiller whose soul has fused into his armor, a morally-upright 
 Succubus, a streetwise Tiefling, a samurai-like Gith, a man who has been set eternally aflame, 
 and a Modron who likes crossbows. There's a mountain of dialogue to back it up, and depending on 
 your INT and WIS a great many responses to choose from in any given conversation. You can play 
 the Nameless One to be as good or evil as you want, and yet the path is not always that clear... 
 none of the trite ' save the princess' crap. The quests are far more interesting than the typical 
 'get this, kill that, return for you reward' type quests that are prevalent in so many RPGs. Many 
 of the 'secondary' quests also serve to advance the main quest, which makes them more than just 
 a loot or experience-gathering opportunity. I can't do the story justice by describing it here. 
 Let's just say it's the best story I've encountered in an RPG since Ultima 7. The level of conversation 
 that you can conduct with party members is unprecedented, allowing you to discover new plot information, 
 change party members' characteristics and dispositions, and possibly even alter parts of the story. 
 By the end, the player can get quite attached to the characters, and may wish that the story would 
 go on forever.
  
  The combat mechanics are pretty much the same as you'd find in BG, not surprising since it's built 
 on the same Bioware engine. Combat can get pretty hectic, however, and the pause option is greatly 
 appreciated. Path-finding is oftentimes problematic. Playing an immortal being certainly means 
 that death by normal means is not a concern and later in the game the Nameless One can potentially 
 become a one-man slaughterhouse in combat, turning most enemies into a cakewalk and perhaps killing 
 some of the player's interest in combat. Thankfully, because of the terrific story and characters, 
 combat takes a back seat anyway.
  
  The sound is well done and detailed. You can hear the crowds milling around in the background, 
 hammers hitting anvils, etc. There's very little voice work, but of what's there, it's convincing 
 enough - characters speak out in combat, critical hits/misses, and the occasional important event.
 
  
  The graphics are both good and bad. Bad because of the locked 640x480 resolution, which limits 
 your range of view since the characters/objects in this game are much bigger than those in BG (you've 
 got a closer view of the action) . On artistic merit, the graphics are really quite good and far 
 superior to those found in BG/IWD, which tend to look like a bunch of hand-drawn stick figures. 
 The characters/buildings/objects in PS: T were originally rendered in 3D and then mapped to 2D sprites, 
 which makes them look a lot more realistic and '3D-like'.
  
  This is the type of game that you can easily play twice through from the beginning and not get 
 bored. If you select a different style of character the second time, good/evil, strong/smart, etc., 
 the game will look quite different.
  
  If the concept of 640x480 doesn't offend too much, PS: T is absolutely worth any true RPGer's time. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joost2000
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 8, 2006 4:15 pm PT
Review:  Positive: storyline, character-evolvement, atmosphere
  Negative: 2D, AI of the playing chars could be better
  
  Many games are said or predicted to 
 be timeless... few really are. Planescape: Torment is one of the exceptions. Even today, anno 2006, 
 I still consider it the greatest RPG. Is it out of nostalgia? I don't think so. I only started 
 playing it a year ago. What makes Planescape so great?
  
  The most important thing of an RPG would be the storyline combined with some nice  
 The story behind Planescape is very complex, but at the same time original and addictive. Not the 
 usual fearies, dwarves & gnomes but planetravellers, flying skulls, thieflings and hellish creatures. 
 The best element about Planescape would probably be the possibility for the player to chose weather 
 to fight or not. Having conversations or solving conflicts by dialogue will get you as much, if 
 not even more, experiencepoints, which can be used to level up. Prepare yourself for a lot of reading 
 however! But it's all worth it. 
  
  How come Planescape can be considered timeless while other old rpg's aren't able to withstand the 
 test of time? Well, at first, no other game with the same complexity was ever made. Next, although 
 the graphics are very old - they don't really look that outdated. It was like almost the best 2D-isometric 
 view possible. There is lots of variety in de decors and NPCs, it is a colorfull environment beaming 
 out the right atmosphere. The only real downside can be the Artificial Intelligence of the characters 
 you play with: they might get stuck at places, stand still in stead of fighting or walk etc. 
 
  
  All in all, even for today's standards this game is just great. If you liked rpg's like neverwinternights 
 & icewinddale, you will like this one better. The game really gets a hold on you, and the story 
 digs a lot deeper than any other rpg I've encountered this far. 
  
  PS: the scoring is for today's standards... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iedoc
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 18, 2006 11:54 am PT
Review:  the storyline for this game is sooo sweet. its coolest part i think is that you can't die. and 
 you have to be pretty smart with figureing things out, cause this game is just pretty difficult, 
 unless you have a strategy guide or whatever. also, then ending for this game is really cool too. 
 i actually don't care a ton for the graphics, cause its a lot like diablo graphics, and i got sick 
 of that game, but you might like them. the music is ok, but its not the best either. i would definately 
 recomend this game. if you enjoy rpg's, then you should for sure check this game out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: war_master68
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 15, 2006 4:20 pm PT
Review:  This is truly the definitive Computer Role-Playing game of its time, there is so much to do, you 
 can't do it all in one run, and the story is wonderful, and complex, it begins simply enough, you 
 wake up in the mourge, on an operating table, with a talking skull named Morte, you make your way 
 out of there, and begin trying to discover who you are, if you'r familiar with the Baldur's Gate, 
 or Icewind Dale series, then you will be instantly familiar with the battle system, for those of 
 you who aren't, battle consists of selecting a character and giving them an action in real time, 
 you can pause the action, to micro-manage your party without the pressure of trying to fend off 
 enemies at the same time, there are three classes to choose from, and you can usually switch between 
 any of the three once you unlock them, the three classes are fighter, thief, and mage, the story 
 takes place in the City of Sigil, a Planar City, also known as the City of Doors, because of its 
 reputation for having a portal to anywhere. The games spell animations are breath-taking, and the 
 music of the game fits the game well, even if you don't agree with my review through most of the 
 game, once you get closer to the end of the game, you will, The Ending that I Earned, on my one, 
 and only play-through was un-forgottable, and thinking of the Planescape Torment only brings fond 
 memories to mind, if you like PC Games, at all, then I strongly urge you to seek out a copy of 
 Planescape: Torment and give it a go, I promise it will be one of the greatest games you have ever 
 played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: knofou
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 27, 2006 3:34 pm PT
Review:  This is a unique game. Its a totally new experience in role playing games and fantasy worlds. There 
 are no magic swords and elves in this one but a complex universe of worlds. The plot is the best 
 I have seen in any game and you care about your hero and what happens to him and as he gains his 
 memories you shape his alignment. The companions that join the hero are not extra inventory slots 
 but have their own history and personality and behavior and come alive and you care for them. The 
 graphics are not the best in todays standards but the music and the plot will keep this game alive 
 for years. This is a masterpiece and its no surprise that no sequel was made as it would have been 
 hard to replicate it. If there is a perfect game then this one comes very close to it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gettalife185
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 19, 2006 9:50 am PT
Review:  This game is at the very top of my all-time favorite games list although I realize that it's a 
 bit dated by now.
  
  Perhaps the best part of this game is the writing that went into not just the story, but every 
 conversation, every book, every artifact you find in this game. Many games these days are filled 
 with extra book and stories that you really don't have to read -- and usually don't because they're 
 actually boring -- but Torment is different; everything is a pleasure to read because it's all 
 written well and is very entertaining.
  
  The story itself is awesome as it very intriguing. You wake up in a morgue one day with no memories 
 of your past. The name of a person is tatooed to your back and you set out to find this person 
 who may know something about your past. Oh, and you find out that you have a friend who's nothing 
 but a humorous floating skull.
  
  The gameplay is also awesome. For anyone who loves the Baldur's Gate style of play, they will find 
 a very similar style in Torment and it is one that I enjoy. You can combine different characters 
 with different abilities. I particularly love the detail put into the spells, especially some of 
 the very high level spells that almost turn into mini-movies in the game.
  
  The interaction with the characters is great. Often, the characters will engage in conversations 
 with you or with each other and this adds a great depth of character to them instead of just being 
 a set of random people that you happen to be playing a game with.
  
  This game has a great balance between action and adventure. The level of combat in this game is 
 definitely lower than in most RPGs but is still very significant and very satisfying. To compliment 
 it is also a great deal of investigation as you try to solve or complete the various quests that 
 you are on, many of which have nothing to do with combat. This to me is the sweetest part of the 
 game. You get to play through a story and not simply hack-and-slash your way to the next level.
 
  
  The music is very eerie and evocative and adds a great atmosphere to this game.
  
  Despite the age of this game and what are now dated graphics, I would highly recommend this game 
 to anyone who is a fan of the RPG genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: profwhite
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 19, 2006 7:44 am PT
Review:  This game takes a different route of hero destroys evil and 
  
  wins the girl routine of most rpgs. If your a fan of reading, 
  
  reading, and more reading 
 than this is a game for you. The 
  
  hero of this story is a immortal zombie called the nameless 
  
  one. The thing that makes this 
 game different from other rpgs 
  
  is that the main character never dies. You can lose all of 
  
  your hp only to wake up somewhere 
 else. You run around with a 
  
  party of six different people in a real time battle, meaning 
  
  the enemy does not wait for 
 you to make a choice of what you 
  
  want to do. There are lots of different weapons and magic for 
  
  you to use. The menus are 
 easy to use. The areas in the game 
  
  are well thought up of. Fog of war makes a appearance in this 
  
  game keeping you from seeing 
 possible enemy's. The music is 
  
  very easy to your ears. The voices are not as easy to your 
  
  ears. You will hear "updated 
 my journal" more than you want 
  
  to. In short if your looking for a 50+ hour game this is for 
  
  you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: felfo
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 7, 2006 6:53 pm PT
Review:  What can I say? Simple, is the year 2006 and nobody has bettered it to date, after 7 years.
  We all know graphics have improved a lot but, this game has a unique story, the script is just 
 great and that is very hard to do these days where story lines are very poor.
  I don't give tens usually, but if half-life is a ten on FPS's then Torment is a ten on RPG's.
 
  You can't avoid but to submerge there, it scares you, it surprises you, thrills you.
  The combination between characters, the complexity of the different side stories.
  Really if 
 you like RPG's and haven't played torment, you just have missed the best ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StoicLeopard
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 5, 2006 11:58 am PT
Review:  If this had been a book, then it would now be in the canon of many a humanities and english course. 
 That is how well written this game is. This is the kind of game that needs to be made if this venue 
 is to ever be taken seriously. Gameplay wise, it is built like Baldurs Gate but that is where it 
 ends. This does not have the generic "you are the chosen one" story, this has a plot that would 
 rival Dantes Inferno or the Odessy. I am being vague because I do not want to ruin anything but 
 plot wise it is perfect and gameplay wise, if you liked how baldurs gate was made then you will 
 like this. An added plus is that any machine can run this game, it is a classic just as much as 
 Deus Ex and System Shock 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Morgue13-2
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jan 19, 2006 1:00 pm PT
Review:  Okay, you should know one thing about me. I HATE TSR. they're all very well, but I can't play any 
 of their games. This is a fine game. It has the greatest graphics. It has THE ULTIMATE BEST SOUND 
 EVER. It's seriously scary and weird. I love it. But it is made by TSR. and, because of that, and 
 the uncharacteristic lack of cheats it is fundamentaly hard. HOWEVER, you're ALWAYS on god-mode. 
 So, it's possible, but scarily difficult. I remember Baldurs gate. The expansion pack, Tales of 
 the sword coast. I actualy added no benefit to the game what-so-ever, but it did mean you never 
 had to change disks. There is nothing like that for Torment, so you're gonna have to live with 
 the fact that without a patch you are going to need to change disks 1-3 times between each area. 
 However, The change disk screen is one of the greatest game screens of all time. Deionarra is, 
 to exucse the pun, to die for. It's a very involving piece of work, and it's worth the insurmountable 
 difficulty in play. If you have sound, go for it. You'll stay op late each night, incapable of 
 a moments peace all day, living, soley to wonder....
  
  I'm campaigning for a novelisation. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ergo2497
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 9, 2006 5:23 pm PT
Review:  Planescape: Torment is not your daddy's RPG. It isn't even your standard present-day RPG. Torment 
 is cold, cruel, violent, wordy and downright strange. It's by far my favorite roleplaying game 
 of all time.
  
  Torment begins with a very typical setup. Your character doesn't know his name or origins, and 
 is a long way from home. What's atypical is that this character is covered with scars, is wearing 
 animal skins and bones, and is immortal. Stranger yet is the city he wakes up in.
  
  Sigil, the CIty of Doors, is a dangerous place. People have a tendency to go insane, lose body 
 parts, undergo mysterious transformations and disappear into other dimensions. That's because Sigil 
 links several other worlds, which of course the Nameless One and his companions explore throughout 
 the story.
  
  Those companions are both varied and interesting, ranging from a wise-cracking talking skull to 
 a mystical warrior whose blade changes as he ascends in level. They all have their own detailed 
 backstories and interesting conversations, and many of them will have their own effects on your 
 character.
  
  In fact, detail and interesting conversations are two things Planescape: Torment has in spades. 
 Everywhere you'll find long, rich conversations with NPC's that will allow you to do anything with 
 them, from threatening to bluffing to lying to physically harming them. These conversations are 
 the strongest point of Torment.
  
  The game has its weak spots also. It's a bit buggy, and the interface is clunky. Combat could be 
 a tad more interesting.
  
  But you'll look beyond those weak spots, because Planescape: Torment is so fascinating, so well-written, 
 so DIFFERENT that it will grab hold of you, and not let go. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mmhmmm
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 7, 2006 6:58 am PT
Review:  This is a PC RPG game developed by Black Isle Studios. Set out in the universe of Planescape: A 
 city with surrounding portals that is a passage between different dimensions. As you start the 
 game, you wake up on a slab as a horrid creature full of scars and tattoos on his body. You play 
 as The Nameless One, who is immortal, and has lost his memory and cannot remember his past.
  
  It uses the same engine as the Baldur's Gate games. The characters and all the environments 
 are beautifully and carefully designed
  
  As you progress in the game you can meet up and recruit companions to aid you in your quest. You 
 can also learn the history behind these characters by asking them questions.
  
  It's a great game with an original plot, very well-written dialogue. As you progress, you can choose 
 whether you want to be a sneaky Thief, a Magician that casts deadly spells, or a fighter that can 
 specialize in different weapons like clubs, daggers, fist, axes etc. Depending on if you lie or 
 speak the truth to people you will get different alignments. For example, if you lie to a person 
 you will become more evil and so forth. You can become lawful, evil, good and chaotic.
  
  If you like good old RPG games, and you are willing to read long dialogues then this game might 
 just fit you. It is indeed an impressive game that is good for re-play after you have finished 
 it once.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Neothelid
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 23, 2005 11:41 am PT
Review:  As a veteran D&D game master and player and die-hard fan of the PlaneScape setting, I had the highest 
 expectations about Torment, and I'm absolutely glad to say that the game did not just fulfill them, 
 but also exceeded them.
  
  Torment is a tour into one of the most bizarre fantasy settings ever conceived; most of the game 
 takes place into a sprawling city that is an interplanar crossroads of sorts with hidden gates 
 that open into virtually every universe imaginable. The streets are crammed with similarly odd 
 denizens - from demons hailing from hell itself to creatures incarnating the ultimate degrees of 
 logic, you can find everything in between. 
  
  The character whose role you get to play is similarly eccentric. You will start the game lying 
 on a metal slab, with no memories whatsoever about who you are and how you got there, and with 
 a load of questions - not the least of all being what is that eerie room in the first place. As 
 soon as you wake up, you will meet the first of the coterie of NPCs you will be able to recruit... 
 who turns out to be just a floating skull. 
  
  The visuals are just plain impressive. You experience the world of PS: Torment from the same isometric 
 perspective used in Baldur's Gate, but the characters and the enemies in general all look larger 
 and more detailed. The overall visual theme of the game can only be described as grim -- the cities 
 are all dark, and shades of brown and grey are very abundant, with very few bright colors used 
 if none at all. Some locales constitute notable exceptions to the predominantly despondent theme, 
 but this only reinforces the gloom that pervades nearly everything else.
  
  However, among all its strong technical points, I think that the quality of the sound and the music 
 is the most remarkable of all. You are just going to love spellcasting: screen darkens, thunderous 
 booms are heard, and hell breaks loose in your ears! The voice acting is flawless: the characteristic 
 'planar cant' of the PlaneScape setting comes alive in all its splendour, and it's almost a guarantee 
 you'll hear words you never knew that actually existed. The accents of all the NPCs are very cool 
 too: there's a female tiefling, for example, that speaks with a Scottish accent, and the voice 
 of your skull companion has a dry echo that actually serves to remind you that he's just a skull 
 with no flesh at all. And music is on par with sound effects and voice acting, too, if not above 
 them: some of the best parts of the game involve you dealing with a ghostly woman, and every time 
 you meet her you will get to hear probably the best song ever featured in a computer game. Just 
 plain heart-wrenching. 
  
  Combat in PS: Torment is quite an experience as well. As mentioned before, you'll surely be casting 
 spells time and time again just because they sound great and they look even better. Extremely mighty 
 spells have cutscenes of their own, like the Modron Cannon spell: in a clockwork realm a massive 
 energy cannon is fired through a portal, and you designate where the other end of the portal will 
 open -- inches away from the unfortunate target of the spell. It has some flaws, unfortunately: while 
 you are able to recruit a specialist in ranged combat for your party, he's almost useless since 
 the only enemies who don't charge you are spellcasters.
  
  I strongly recommend you to avoid this game if you are fond of hack-and-slashers, since the best 
 PS: Torment has to offer is the most extreme role-playing experience ever. What starts as a few 
 questions ("who am I and how did I get here?") evolves into a plane-spanning search for your name, 
 your past, and some terrible secrets your character has. Issues like mortality, morality and what 
 I can only describe as the most insightful answer that I have had the chance to come across to 
 what the human soul is are brought forth in this game. The alignment system typical of the D&D 
 universe is perfectly implemented: while you start the game as a true neutral person, your actions 
 will affect the moral and ethical views of your character. Whether you do good or evil, your alignment 
 will steer accordingly -- and the multiverse will also react to your choices.
  
  I have very fond memories of PS: Torment, and I am confident you will have them too after you have 
 taken this tour through the multiverse. As one of the most intense role-playing experiences I have 
 had the luck to stumble upon, I advice you: don't fall prey to the temptation of downloading a 
 walkthrough, or you will lose the chance to know yourself a little more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: megawavez
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 19, 2005 8:34 pm PT
Review:  Just reinstalled on my hard drive again for the hell of it and started playing again. It's really 
 is still an *excellent* game - these guys put there heart and soul into making this thing.
  
  The planescape universe is dark, but they story is probably the best you'll ever come across 
 in a RPG game - the writing is simple *excellent* and the characters always interesting. It's probably 
 the only computer game that actually touched me as I played through it as the nature of the story 
 really touches upon some very deep aspects of the human condition.
  
  I still highly recommend playing it!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talonfire
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 2, 2007 7:29 am PT
Review:  Planescape: Torment by the now disbanded Black Isle studios was one of those games that just didn't 
 sell well for who knows what reason. Sales do not determine a games value, however; and Planescape: 
 Torment has what is simply one of the best storylines that has ever graced any form of media therefore 
 making it an instant classic. In Torment you take the role of the Nameless One, an immortal man 
 with amnesia. As soon as you wake up on a slab in a strange room you are confronted by a floating 
 skull who will become one of your many companions over the course of the game. While escaping the 
 Mortuary you'll encounter the lonely spirit of a woman who claims to know you, and she is but the 
 beginning of what you'll learn about your past.
  
  During Torment you will encounter many allies and many enemies both old and new. There's a mysterious 
 warrior that has an obsession with knowing, a lost fiery Tiefling, a good natured Succubus and 
 yes there are more. Each character is fleshed out and has his or her own story and some of them 
 even knew who you were before and can aid you through conversation; if you can get it out of them 
 anyway. The gameplay in Torment is similar to Baldur's Gate and Icewind Dale because it uses the 
 Infinity Engine. Torment, however; focuses more on storyline and freedom than its predecessors 
 and gives you many ways to deal with a particular situation. This of course also means that there 
 isn't as much battle as in Baldur's Gate and certainly not as much as Icewind Dale. There is still 
 combat so putting all of your stat points into wisdom, intelligence and charisma at the beginning 
 of the game isn't the best move either. One nice touch in Torment is how you don't even need to 
 fight a final battle; you can talk your way to victory. The pen is mightier than the sword in this 
 game.
  
  The graphics in Torment are probably the best of the Infinity Engine games; every character sprite 
 is large and detailed and looks all around a lot nicer than Baldur's Gate and Icewind Dale. The 
 backgrounds are not exactly as colorful as the other infinity engine games; they tend to be dark 
 and gritty which fits the setting perfectly (as far as I know) but unfortunately makes the enviroments 
 anything but memorable.
  
  The audio is superb, the voice acting is great and includes several popular voice actors and the 
 sound is just as good as the other Infinity engine games. The music in Torment is atmospheric and 
 catchy; there are quite a few memorable tunes in Torment though unfortunately most of them are 
 just remixes of the main theme.
  
  Planescape: Torment is simply one of the best RPGs you can buy; the storyline is strong, metaphorical, 
 philosophical and emotional all at the same time and the game lets you play the way you want to. 
 If you're looking for a rare gem then Torment is just what you're looking for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thisisthepope
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 13, 2005 12:21 pm PT
Review:  OK, let me begin by announcing that I am not a computer roleplaying game buff. I grew up on the 
 regular nerdy diet of D&D but always managed to even out the nerdiness by keeping up with everything 
 else that was cool (back then that meant the latest U2 bootlegs of their Zooropa tour and spikiing 
 my hair up like Soundgarden's Chir Cornell) . But it was CRPG boom and gamespot's print predecessor 
 and my guiding light in the world of gaming; Computer Gaming World, declared this a classic. So, 
 after getting bored of Baldur's Gate I and then getting conned into Baldur's Gate II, I decided 
 enough was enough and left this one to rot.
  
  But pretty soon graduating from college brought an expanse of time I had lost to higher education 
 and I decided to cozy up at home, beef up the computer, crank up the volume and install something 
 that would eat away my time. Strangely enough, Planescape is easy on the specs and short on the 
 sound.
  
  This game is a strange one. The strongest thing it has going for is it's brilliant game design. 
 The graphics are fine (prone to a little CGI-ish cutscenes, but those are sparse anyway) , the sound 
 good (the characters would only speak the first couple of lines and then the rest was text) , and 
 the fighting system OK I guess. But what I found here was something that has proven me wrong (and 
 only once, I must add) ; that there can be such a thing as interactive storytelling.
  
  I am someone who has dedicated their lives to the understanding of narrative across media and have 
 always been drawn to the mythological weight that narrative has. I've always cast a skeptical eye 
 on every age's admonishment that the old grand narratives have crumbled and that a new modern age 
 of storytelling is underway. Bull. Narrative is a method of conveying mythology (and by mythology 
 I mean a package of culture, morals, and story. Much like what George Lucas did with the first 
 Star Wars trilogy) and it can never be a thing of the past.
  
  However, Planescape manages (through a mainly text driven narrative) to open up the story to people. 
 Basically the system is the same as Baldur's Gate; you command a party (albeit a party of freaks) , 
 move them about, fight monsters and occasionally use things in your inventory with things in the 
 game's world. The meat of the game is in the dialogue box that opens up everytime you look or talk 
 to someone.
  
  It pretty much takes up half the screen, but is laden with equisitely written description that 
 takes over from the isometric graphics in visualizing the game. Characters go through swaths of 
 dialogue and the options are plenty, each slightly altering the course of the game.
  
  Adding to the twists in the game, the universe it takes place in is a brilliant one. As a D&D player 
 I pounced on the Planescape boxed set when it came out. It provided hours of reading, for the Planescape 
 world exists in a land shaped by belief. Somewhat akin to Alan Moore's concept of Ideaspace, Planescape 
 is mapping out of the ethereal world beyond. In it the dead mix with living, ghosts, demons, gods, 
 concepts, monsters - basically anything that can be thought of. It also personifies all the alignments 
 of D&D and paints them out in their respective worlds; for example. chaotic evil a land forever 
 locked in a battle between two demon races called the Blood War. Sadly, it seemed that for all 
 its intricate beauty, the boxed set was one of those unplayable D&D accessories due to all its 
 weird rules.
  
  However, Torment takes all of the madness and lays it out coherently into one of the most splendidly 
 interesting environments you could dream up. You will find yourself helping a street give birth 
 to an alley so that you can make it to the other side of the Hive, at one point!
  
  Central to it all is poetically sad story of your Nameless protagonist. Taking Plato's notion of 
 life (that it is spent "remembering" flashes of the all that we once knew) Torment's gameplay allows 
 your character to shift between classes, let alone morality. At it it's core, the story is one 
 of self-discovery; just why are you immortal? Why are you covered in runes? Why will people follow 
 you beyond the veil of death? The answers are bigger than you could possibly imagine.
  
  To this day I remember the end of the game; pathetically sobbing alone at 4 in am whilst the Nameless 
 One unravels the mystery, wishing this perfect end was not the end. No game has moved me like this. 
 But believe me, if you appreciate a good (great) story and are willing to commit to reading a lot 
 to get to it, this one is must play. The best play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ridcully
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 13, 2005 5:35 am PT
Review:  Planescape: Torment is RPG at its best. 
  
  The game emphasizes the story which is magnificently delievered through traditional dialogue boxes 
 and some voiceacting. Black Isle has done a tremendous job with all written dialogue which gives 
 the game the depht and intrigue RPG-gamers such as myself crave. 
  
  The unique elements of Planescape: Torment is of course the unusual setting for a CRPG, the world (s) 
 of Planescape. Besides from that it's clearly distinguished from other RPGs in certain aspects, 
 such as the demotion of heroism, the way the player is given the feeling of freedom in a very story 
 driven context and how important other character in your party are for the history, they aren't 
 just there to help you beat up the bad guys.
  
  If you are in to RPGs for playing a good story and for the experience you get from playing in a 
 well-shaped universe Planescape: Torment is the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hazeroth
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 24, 2005 2:43 pm PT
Review:  I got this a couple of years ago, and have spent way too many hours on it. It is the best RPG you 
 would be able to come across. It offers something different than the standard "go save the world"-story, 
 since you are playing as an immortal in search of himself and his lost memories. 
  I would also like to add that since you don't choose your alignment from the start but instead 
 start as True Neutral and alignment is depending upon your actions only, this game really makes 
 it brilliant playing as an evil character. 
  Except for the battle music, the music is really good, and while the fights aren't the best, you 
 can manage to complete the game with only four fights, so that's not an excuse not to play the 
 game. 
  It is a lot of text to get through, so if you really only want a fighting game, stay away and go 
 play Diablo II.
  
  Go read the "Best games" article for more info. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_T
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 13, 2005 6:16 pm PT
Review:  This game is a tribute to all its kind. It offers one of the closest things possible to the true 
 tabletop game as far as the depth of the storyline. It is obvious to anyone that has played this 
 that a great injustice has been done here. The fact that this game isn't recognized by everyone 
 in its true light is a show of another sad case where lack of advertising can kill even the greatest 
 game. I would recomend anyone that calls themselves a true fan of RPGs to aquire this game. We 
 can only hope a game this good will come out in our lifetime. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SadExchange
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 11, 2005 12:10 pm PT
Review:  At first criticized by many because of the amount of dialogue present within the storyline, this 
 cult classic has only grown in popularity since its release on November 30th of 1999. Developed 
 by Black Isle Studios and based on the same gaming engine as the Baldurs Gate and the Icewind 
 Dale games, known as the Infinity Engine, this role-playing game gave hardcore role-players the 
 game theyve always been asking for. Within the plot that exists throughout this tale, a story 
 is driven by the players choice. In every conversation and in every action that is done within 
 the game, the player is given choices, not simply just a yes or no for each answer. The developers 
 provided the player with many different answers to give depending on their type of character they 
 created. These choices made by the player would then affect them later on throughout the course 
 of the game depending on their decisions.
  
  If you didnt already know, Planescape is a setting in the Dungeons and Dragons world. It is actually 
 made of hundreds and thousands of different planes throughout the universe and in the very center 
 of all those planes is the City of Sigil, also known as the City of Doors. Sigil is one of the 
 main locales that your character will travel through on their quest, but what is the purpose of 
 this game? From the beginning sequence, you, the player, wake up on a cold slab inside a Mortuary. 
 Without a memory and hundreds of scars across your body, you soon feel alone and lightheaded in 
 knowing absolutely nothing. You are known as The Nameless One and for reason of not knowing anything 
 of course. The only one there in the mortuary to help you on your way is a flying skeletons head 
 named Morte. If you choose, Morte can help you on your journey to find out who you are. With a 
 message that has been scraped into your back, and a flying skull at your side, you begin your quest 
 and along that quest, youll meet many fascinating NPCs. Some that will join your group if you 
 choose and some that may defer you from finding out the true nature of yourself. The developers 
 give depth to each and every character in the game. Every person you talk to on the streets of 
 Sigil or in the burning planes of Baator will have depth, not only in their knowledge, but also 
 in their actions. 
  
  Black Isle Studios caught a lot of flack throughout the beginning stages of Planescape: Torments 
 release because of the hundreds and hundreds of lines to read as you progress on your way to find 
 yourself. One thing different that the developers did was describe the surroundings of the character. 
 When you step up and talk to a NPC, you are given a detailed description of that NPC, their facial 
 expressions, the way they move their body when they talk to you, among other things. All of this 
 detail can help the player further in deciding their answers when asked questions by the NPCs of 
 the planes. Dont just expect a one line description, you will literally be spending hours in front 
 of your computer reading through different conversations and actions, and that may only get you 
 past the first city streets of Sigil. You can also look forward to reading the bantering between 
 your fellow NPCs that join you in the game since there are many different races within the planes. 
 You wont be traveling with just a couple dwarves and an elf. Instead, youll have a chance to 
 converse with the likes of a human male whose literally on fire throughout the game, a Tiefling, 
 a Githzerai, a Succubus, a Modron, the flying skull, and what is known as a restless spirit. These 
 NPCs will provide you with many hours of fun while deciding who to take on your journey. Who you 
 take will depend on your playing style and who you can stand to be in the same group with.
  
  Unlike the games that use the same gaming engine as Planescape: Torment, you dont pick a class 
 type for your character at the beginning of the game. Youre given the same attributes to choose 
 from as those games, but its which attributes you end up choosing which make your character differ 
 from a fighter, a thief, or a mage. Also, while playing the game itself, youll also be deciding 
 which type of character youll have because of where you further spend your attribute points. If 
 youre a person who wants to enjoy the dialogue of Planescape: Torment, I suggest putting a few 
 extra points in both Wisdom and Charisma. Torment is definitely a different type of game from the 
 regular role-playing genre. In all actuality, there are only three confrontations which could lead 
 to fighting throughout the games many characters that youll come across. The developers wanted 
 the players choices of dialogue to affect the outcome, so in conversations that you have with 
 different NPCs, itll matter what you choose to say thatll decide whether they attack you or whether 
 they give you what you needs.
  
  The graphics in Planescape: Torment arent the best, but that doesnt mean theyre terrible. Along 
 the same lines as the Baldurs Gate series, Torment has pre-rendered backgrounds and 2D characters 
 for the player to move around in. The resolution is quite small and cannot be changed. It is strictly 
 stuck on 640 x 480, but you simply wont notice this, because of the detailed backgrounds of Torment. 
 Just like the dialogue describes your surroundings in the game, the surroundings themselves actually 
 create a great atmosphere. The spell affects that you may use or when not being a mage, one of 
 your companions can use really look great in the smaller resolution. With the resolution size smaller 
 than in normal games, Black Isle Studios sure took their time to make the special affects and also 
 the locales look unique and different from one another. You have the City of Sigil, with its blade-like 
 architecture that marvel the Lady of Pain, the ruler of the Planes, and this varies very differently 
 from the Fortress of Regrets which is near the end of the game. Each area that you and your companions 
 will travel to will make a lasting impression on you long after you shut off your computer.
  
  To make the atmosphere of your surroundings even more in the game, Mark Morgan and Richard 
 Band created an engrossing soundtrack during your travels of the different planes on your journey 
 to find out who you truly are. The music within each pat of the game is not only memorable but 
 moody in the way that it really adds to the atmosphere of the place youre in. You might find yourself 
 going into the games files later on and converting the music into mp3s to listen to later on. 
 The voice acting is also done quite well for its time. Much of the dialogue within the game spoken 
 by the many NPCs is voiced and this adds quite a bit to each of their characters while playing. 
 
  
  Planescape: Torment does have a couple flaws though for being one of the best role-playing games 
 to date. Some of the flaws lie in the dialogue scripts themselves. Because of the amount of dialogue 
 within the game, it doesnt seem too horrible and none of thee bugs are in any way game stopping 
 bugs, so be rest assured that youll be able to complete this game all the way through and not 
 only that, but do it more than one time, in more than one way. With the different endings provided 
 to you, and the many differences you could experience through the game on different turns through 
 the planes, Planescape: Torment definitely has a good amount of replay value in it. 
  
  Not enough can be said of this storyline engrossing game. As you progress throughout the many trials 
 youll need to solve on your own and with your companions, youll feel an overwhelming accomplishment 
 from what you have done. Find out if you can discover the identity of The Nameless One. How he 
 came to be where he is today and see if you can answer the question, What can change the nature 
 of a man? Its all up to you, with your choices given to you. How do you want to precede?
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: John_Adkins
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 26, 2005 6:52 am PT
Review:  To start with I might as well mention that this review contains NO SPOILERS.
  
  From the moment you begin Torment, you'll realize you're playing a game like no other. From the 
 fact that your character, the Nameless One, wakes up in the gruesome and disturbing Mortuary, to 
 how you are almost immediately afterward accosted by Morte -- a wise-cracking, floating skull. 
 The game also relies a lot more on speech than it does on combat, so if you are looking for a carnage-filled, 
 adventuring-extravaganza like Baldur's Gate II or Icewind Dale, then Torment is not for you.
  
  The character generation at the very beginning of Torment is far shorter and simpler than that 
 of Fallout, or Baldur's Gate, as you only have to pick your stats. No abilities, no class, no perks, 
 nothing besides your starting statistics. The game itself is the character generation system, so 
 to speak. During the game you have many opportunities to increase your stats through quests, conversations, 
 and the like. As the game starts you begin with a "True Neutral" alignment, but you can change 
 that quickly enough by your actions in the game. For example, snapping the neck of a hapless Dustman 
 in one of the game's first areas makes you a bit more evil, whereas helping save the life of an 
 innocent bystander will make you a bit more good. Your elements of good, neutral, and evil also 
 fall into the sub-categories "Lawful," "Neutral," (this is changed to "True" when you are a neutral 
 character) , and "Chaotic," depending on the kind of things you do, and to the degree you do them. 
 You may also change your class between fighter (which you begin the game as) , mage, and thief by 
 having one of your party members, or an NPC capable of this, train you in the art of your choosing. 
 Finally, you may have one of the select few NPCs of the game capable, train you in the weapon type 
 of your choice, but only if you have unused weapon proficiency points gained from leveling up your 
 character.
  
  Something else this game does that the Baldur's Gate and Icewind Dale series didn't, is have the 
 main character speak in a voice you do not pick yourself. The Nameless One has many lines of dialogue 
 throughout the game and definitely has a somewhat predefined personality because of it. Thankfully 
 though, this only adds depth to his character, instead of removing your ability to make decisions 
 that matter within the game. He's like a balance between the main character in Baldur's Gate II 
 (i. e. lots of decisions entirely left up to you) and the main character in a big name Final Fantasy 
 game (i. e. deep personality) .
  
  The plot in Torment is thick, intriguing, and in the end, highly satisfying. As I said, I won't 
 spoil any of it, but I will say that you won't likely find a better one in any other game. As well 
 as having a magnificent over-arching story, the game also boasts some very engaging sub-plots among 
 the many NPCs and party members you will meet on your travels through the multiverse. These sub-plots 
 help flesh out the characters, making Torment's cast not one you will likely forget any time soon.
 
  
  The supporting cast of characters in Torment is one of the best and most bizarre things about it, 
 but thankfully the weirdness of it all never seems forced. The party members range from the afore 
 mentioned floating skull, to a perpetually burning man, to an empty suit of armor with a justice 
 fetish. What makes the cast even better is the fact that you can start up conversations with them 
 at will. Throughout the game you'll likely be starting up conversations with your party members 
 constantly, hoping for a new and interesting dialogue tree to open up.
  
  The game has very few cut-scenes, so most the story and story-significant sequences are spent on 
 the dialogue screen. But although you usually have quite a few dialogue options throughout the 
 game's many, many conversations, don't expect to be altering the story in any serious way by the 
 ones you choose. While you can make many a decision that matters in the game, you aren't capable 
 of doing anything on the level of Chrono Cross (for the less video game learned, Chrono Cross had 
 around 10 different endings and many plot altering choices you could make) .
  
  The game proceeds in a fairly linear fashion, for both story and gameplay, but this is one of the 
 few cases where a game has actually used this mostly to its advantage. Torment uses its linearity 
 to deepen the plot and characters, which would almost definitely be much less interesting if your 
 many decisions had any serious effect on them, since the time spent developing this game was not 
 nearly enough to put the same depth seen in the single way the story can unfold, into several completely 
 different ways the story could unfold.
  
  The dialogue of the game is exceptionally well-written, and it's obvious that a lot of care went 
 into its fine-tuning. Each of the game's characters has a very different method of speech and a 
 different take on the world, and these things are portrayed amazingly well regardless of whether 
 a conversation is voice-acted or not. From Morte's sarcastic remarks and obnoxious banter, to Fall-From-Grace's 
 courteous speeches and kind comments, to Nordom's odd and not precisely sane-sounding (or reading) 
 gibberish, this game could probably keep you interested with its dialogue alone.
  
  The game also makes use of some extremely high-quality voice-acting, but that isn't exactly surprising 
 coming from a Black Isle game. The voice actors all fit their roles perfectly and bring their characters 
 to life amazingly well. The only real complaint you could have about the voice acting is how little 
 of it there is. I'm not sure why Black Isle decided to have so little voice acting in this game, 
 especially since the voice actors did such amazing jobs, but this is still only a minor complaint 
 and the small amount of voice-acting doesn't really detract from the overall experience.
  
  Yet another audible achieve this game makes is its musical score. The game's music extremely well 
 composed, and is as amazing as most everything else in the game. And although you probably won't 
 get any of it stuck in your head for days at a time, it really manages to help bring to life the 
 many strange characters and locations you will meet and visit during your journey. The music of 
 this game was composed by the same man responsible for Fallout's music, but it hardly shows. Fallout's 
 music was on the simple side, even if it was good, but he really created something fantastic with 
 Torment's music.
  
  Another great thing about this game is its staggeringly beautiful pre-rendered backgrounds. These 
 are easily the best out of all the games developed on the Infinity Engine (Baldur's Gate 1/2, Icewind 
 Dale 1/2, and Torment) . Through sheer art-direction this game's backgrounds are some of the most 
 amazing ever created, and the way they bring the game world to life is incredible. On the subject 
 of art-direction it is hard to not bring up the sprite character models. Regardless of the fact 
 that they are sprites they still animate very well and manage to look as unusual and interesting 
 as the rest of the game. It would also be folly not to mention the game's many eye-popping spell 
 animations, which are easily some of the best I've ever seen in a Role-Playing Game.
  
  Since I have spent the entire review so far lauding Torment, I suppose I'd better make the few 
 criticisms possible for this masterpiece. The gameplay is noticeably worse than the Baldur's Gate, 
 Fallout, and Icewind Dale series. Most every fight in the game is on the easy side, and you cannot 
 roam free like you could in Baldur's Gate I and II, or Fallout. Also, the Nameless One cannot wear 
 any armor outside of the beginning area (where it is possible to kill a Dustman and steal his/her 
 robe) , there is an unfortunately limited variety of weapons to be found, the only character capable 
 of using ranged weapons is Nordom, and the spell animations, while exceptional, usually take a 
 long time to finish, making using them in combat take far longer than it should and even become 
 a chore after awhile. But don't let these flaws deter you from playing Torment, as they are easily 
 overlooked during the game.
  
  All in all, Torment is a masterpiece in every sense of the word. And if you're still on the fence 
 about whether Torment is worth buying or not, then here's your push: buy it now, it is worth every 
 penny you could possibly spend on it. In a few years it will probably become impossible to find, 
 but as of the writing of this review it can still be found quite cheaply on the internet and at 
 the few game retailers who still stock it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xts3
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 10, 2005 3:08 am PT
Review:  Ahh I remember this game, this game was one of the best Story-driven RPG's ever made. The problem 
 was that it used the wacky D&D universe planescape, and at the time the consoles were wowing everyone 
 with full motion video and pre-renders that put any kind of RPG on the PC to shame, it's horrible 
 that this game bombed in the gaming market. But this goes to prove how small and fickle the PC 
 gamer crowd is and why developers jumped ship to primarily making console games. The rise of Real 
 time strategy games, MMO's, FPS and typical tolkien-esque RPG's (elfs, dwaves, dragons, swords, 
 etc) seem the only games being made anymore for the PC. Alas!
  
  Obviously Interplay were taking a big risk with this one with so many people only familiar with 
 the orcs, elfs, dwarves and humans of normal tolkien-esque Dungeons and dragons RPG's like Baldur's 
 Gate, Icewind dale and other copy-cats back then.
  
  The main selling point of the game is the games story and exceedingly intricate dialogue you have 
 with the non-player characters, if you enjoy reading a good book, Planescape would be a good substitute 
 because personally it probably would have sold better as a book under TSR, as a game it's more 
 like an interactive storybook then it is an RPG game, it does have game elements but the story 
 takes precedence over most of the other aspects.
  
  The real problem with this game though was that it was an original property not based on forgotten 
 realms setting (the most common and well known D&D setting in existence for those who read fantasy 
 books, etc) , this I believe was it's greatest downfall, people just couldn't associate or even 
 familiarize themselves with the radically strange concept of the planescape universe in combination 
 with D&D steretype of orcs, elves, dwarves, dragons and swords. Mot to mention the really strange 
 looking box art of planescape torment and you have a game ripe for financial disaster.
  
  The game starts out with you, the nameless one, (that's right you are forced to play the games 
 main protagonist, you can't customize him save for his states and he always looks the same) . You 
 wake up from having died again, and have no memory of who or where you are and how you got there, 
 the whole point of the game is to rediscover who you are and why it is that you're immortal. I 
 won't ruin it for anyone because this is pretty much the whole game is to discover the story of 
 the nameless one.
  
  The game by itself plays exactly like all other 2D engined bioware RPG's like Baludrs gate, Baldur's 
 gate 2, and other similar games like Icewind dale. So if you've played those games, you know what 
 its going to be like to play planescape torment.
  
  Pro's:
  -Great story
  -Amazing characters
  
  Cons:
  -Not exactly the most entertaining game in terms of battle 
 and loot
  -Game can really drag in parts
  -Most likely have to go to gamefaqs, just to figure out how to move the story forward. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TakingBackRufio
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 4, 2005 1:35 am PT
Review:  Planescape: Torment is a game I received for Christmas a few years ago from my parents. I had never 
 asked for the game and I wasn't expecting much from the bright orange box with the scarred blue 
 face on it. When I started playing it, I was immersed in a very dark world with so many things 
 I'd never seen before. I remember taking a break after 6 hours of playing it to take a drink, I 
 immediately hugged my mom and started raving about how amazing the game was. Simply put, this is 
 the greatest RPG I've ever played in my life.
  
  ***WARNING***
  I'm going to warn people now that this game involves alot of reading and is more story based than 
 combat and action based. If you despise reading, this game is not for you.
  
  If there is any reason you should play the game, it's the enriched storyline. If you need an example, 
 pretend that someone held a spinning saw to Final Fantasy VII's face and told it that if it didn't 
 do better, it would be sawed apart bit by bit. I did indeed take a swing at the critically proclaimed 
 game with the best storyline because I do believe in it so much. You start off as a tall scarred 
 muscular man who has no idea who he is. A huge kicker is that you're immortal. Hmmm... An immortal 
 man with amnesia? This game has to be about him finding his past right Shaye? Absolutely. You meet 
 up with tons of interesting and original characters, and oh is the story ever dark. From prostitutes 
 to people who sell dead bodies to a cult-like faction, this game has tons of twists. 
  
  Planescape: Torment has many points to it that create an amazing bliss of storytelling. The detail 
 placed in this game was definately in the dialog. As you progress through the game, you can choose 
 whether to be good or evil, mixed with lawful or chaotic, or you can always stay neutral in both 
 fields. Think Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic with a little more complexity. The amount 
 of dialog options is amazing. The writers definately spent alot of time on planning out which different 
 routes you can take through the game. These routes may include coming between battling factions 
 or gangs, to killing for the sake of justice, or for greed and pleasure.
  
  The gameplay is very simple, with a really neat interface. It gives you tons of time to learn the 
 basics, and the more complicated things come naturally. It would help if you had a basic understanding 
 of the Advanced Dungeons and Dragons rule system, but it's not necessary, as the instruction book 
 guides you through most of the basics. Basically, I can describe the control scheme as simple and 
 easy, everything a gamer really needs. Sometimes the quests can get a little frustrating. Most 
 of them are delivery quests that can be quite time consuming. The latest patch for this game stops 
 most delays from loading different areas, but it can still be a bother.
  I give the gameplay a 9 out of 10
  
  The graphics are the major downfall of the game. They 
 seem a bit dated, but this can be looked past because they were created a long time before the 
 game was released. It's not a true 3D engine, but the way the characters are modeled, it gives 
 it an illusion to this. The cutscene graphics aren't all up to snuff either. The characters can 
 seem blocky and clay-like, but the way they are animated again makes up for this. The highlights 
 are probably how the spells are done in the game. Great animations and effects are attributed to 
 many of these.
  I give the graphics an 8 out of 10
  
  The sound is one of the good things about this game. It helps bring you into the world itself. 
 There is a ton of ambiance, from shop keepers calling out for you in the streets of Sigil, or from 
 the banging of hammers against hot steel in the Foundry. The music is awesome to. From the beginning, 
 it makes the game seem like an epic movie masterpiece, and by the stars it should be.
  I give the sound a 10 out of 10
  
  This game can be played so many times, and enjoyed each 
 way through. There are so many options you can't possibly get 1,2 or even 3 times through. Everyone 
 raves about how many options Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic has in it, but once againt, 
 Planescape: Torment dominates it. You'll want to go through the game just for the different story 
 options. Many of the quests may be overlooked as well, and each is important in it's own way.
 
  I give the value an easily earned 10 out of 10
  
  If you want to see the best storyline you've ever seen in a video game, play this game. It'll be 
 an experience no gamer should miss. If any of the creators read this, make a movie of this game, 
 please!
  -Shaye Ruecker
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: f00
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 5, 2005 2:49 am PT
Review:  Planescape: Torment has been gnawing at the back of my mind for the last few years. It ranks up 
 there with underdog hits like Grim Fandango and System Shock 2. After years of thinking about playing 
 it, I am extremely glad I finally did.
  
  The number one thing that stands out about the game is its storyline. There is little if any hack-and-slash 
 element to this rpg. The amount of reading one does is very likely similar to that of a typical 
 length science-fiction novel. The material is mature and intelligently written. 
  
  There are very few games out there that can seriously discuss topics such as the nature of man, 
 the existence of an after-life, and the nature of mortality. This game has done that with a deft 
 I have not seen.
  
  Drawbacks are seen in the dated graphics and several go-here-get-this-and-return quests. These 
 are more than easily forgiven as they are minimally related to the center-piece of this meal - 
 the story.
  
  If you enjoy a good story and a bit of thought-provoking content in your gaming life, I can easily 
 recommend this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Everclearules
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 1, 2005 1:30 am PT
Review:  As all RPG's should, Planescape: Torment's story is nothing short of amazing, but saying anything 
 about it would be giving too much away. You really need to find it out for yourself to get the 
 most out of it, though I will tell you it won't be dissapointing. 
  
  The graphics are about the only acceptable complaint that can be made about this game, and that's 
 only because they were made so long ago. At it's time, it was amazing; today however, it's acceptable. 
 That's not to say they're bad, but it really doesn't matter when everything else is amazing. 
 
  
  As compared to other games like Baldur's Gate and Icewind Dale, Planescape: Torment is much more 
 about the story than combat. There are few items and armor to collect, instead the items have great 
 stories as well. Combat is similar to Baldur's Gate and Icewind Dale as well, though it is much 
 easier. 
  
  If you're an RPG fan, chances are you probably own Planescape: Torment, if you don't, get it now! 
 You might be able to find it for 10 dollars in a 2-pack with a game called Soulbringer, which is 
 ok. I would definintly recommend this game to anyone who enjoys a good story being most of the 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nealok
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 7, 2005 12:30 pm PT
Review:  I won't belabor this space with material covered in a trillion other reader reviews as well as 
 the Gamespot review. I'll just say I'm a super, mega, ultra hardcore game nerd, and this is my 
 favorite game of all time. 
  
  I'll mention the flaws right out: the quests tend to be of the FedEx or "talk to this guy for me" 
 variety. Ungood. Also, it's not one of those games you can IMMEDIATELY come back and play again. 
 I have come back a year later and found it every bit as rewarding, but it stinks to play through 
 such a powerful game and not be able to immediately relive what you thought was so grand. Granted, 
 that's a lot harder to do in a story-based game than with, say, THPS3, but in a game where you 
 create every aspect of your character during play, you'd think there might be more merit to restarting. 
 
  
  Regardless, this is the only game that has moved me beyond base and fleeting emotions. 
  
  
 I cried when Aeris died. 
  
  I got all tense when I was jumping up those vents in Metroid. 
  
  But when I finished Torment, 
 I was MOVED. 
  
  This is a powerful game, and if you can handle 1998 graphics, a LOT of text -- close to a million 
 words, I think -- and an unusual surplus of talking skulls, this game is one of the only games I 
 would ever deem "must-buy" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nobeaner
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 16, 2005 4:52 pm PT
Review:  In this imperfect world we call "reality" there are somethings that sometimes happen that prove 
 how imperfect "reality" is. Case in point, Planescape Universe is no longer actively produced and 
 this game will most likely never have a sequel. So after this sad statement I will go on to say 
 that this is truly a disappointment of epic preportions to any RPG fan.
  
  If you are unfamilar with the DnD Plansecape universe than thats ok. This game was built with such 
 a great amount of loving care and detail that anyone could pick it up and understand how things 
 in the multi-verse are supposed to happen. Things like the power of belief, the Rule-of-Three, 
 center of the multi-verse and the Unity of the Rings will probably be questioned but once again, 
 thats ok.
  
  You start the game as the Nameless one and like most RPG's of this sort, or as your name implies, 
 you have no recollection of who you are or how you ended up in the morgue. Then from out of no 
 where comes one of the most enjoyable characters to grace an RPG in the form of Mort. a floating 
 skull that claims to be a mimir (floating head that stores information. Think of it as diary or 
 your own personal encyclopedia that you store information in.) He then tells you that you need 
 to get out of this place and start your adventure to finding who you are.
  
  The story of course revolves around you discovering who you are and how it is you keep coming back 
 from the dead every time you die (usually) . All of which is actually quite common in an RPG (except 
 actually returning from death) . So while dying is not always preferrable, in Planescape it was 
 some times necessary to advance the story and also unlock some history of who you are.
  
  The dialog options were superb and it was the first time I experienced anything that adjusted with 
 how high your wisdom or intelligence was in game. It also allowed you to adjust your alignment 
 based on your dialog options and in game choices ala KotOR or KotOR 2. This is probably why I was 
 so in love with this game when I played it the first ten times thru. So for me there was at least 
 ten replays in this game. A very good number since I usually will only replay a RPG three or four 
 times.
  
  The graphics are definitely dated by the time I write this review. But that being said, this is 
 a perfect example of how a truly great story out does graphics anyday. Best example for me, Fable. 
 Really pretty but lame story. But even though they are dated, the background scenery is beautiful 
 and does a great job of giving you an image of what the multiverse looks and feels like. Though 
 I felt they could have made it more dark because of what I know of the Planescape setting.
  
  The voice acting was incredible and in my opinion truly laid the ground work for what future 
 RPGs should try and live up to. The background noise was great too. Everything from a city in revolt 
 to the hammering in the mills was spot on accurate in my opinion (well at least what I THINK they 
 would sound like since I have never been in either of those situations.)
  
  Let me close with what I put in my review deck. What can change the nature of a Man? Well this 
 game can change the nature of any RPG fan to expect more from the rest of the RPGs they play.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rogue_77
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 1, 2004 5:39 am PT
Review:  I remember the ads for this game and when it came out. It seemed like a completely different style 
 of RPG then ever came out before. It looked interesting but never got it when it first came out. 
 Well, a year or so ago a co-worker lended me the game and oddly enough I liked the game a lot. 
 My problem with RPG's is that I get half way thru them and get doing something else because some 
 of them can be SOOO time consuming that you get involved with life again. I do plan on finishing 
 it but now I have a couple other games I've bought I want to dig into. I'm up to the point where 
 I've met Ravel Puzzle something the night hag.
  
  Honestly I'm not sure what it is about the game I love... The writing, the characters or the world?!? 
 The writing is just very good and unlike Final Fantasy games I don't get sick of reading what they 
 have to say because its actually interesting. As for the world, I'm honestly amazed they never 
 did any more games in the Planescape realms because it has, honestly, endless possibilities! A 
 door can randomly open to anywhere, anytime. This game actually made me interested in the Planescape 
 realm of D&D and I bought some old compendiums and want to buy more. Its a realm of basically imagination!
 
  
  I pretty much know how it will end, but I still want to finish playing it... I want to see the 
 other realms the game takes you to.
  
  All of the characters are original and I love Morte and his sense of humor and when hes trying 
 to pick up women! The graphics aren't great, but its still weird how you can love it despite that 
 because it gets you involved. The spell FX are pretty cool and the different factions are interesting 
 along with learning their beliefs and all that.
  
  BTW, I'm rating all the stuff on when it came out, compared to stuff then, not now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: placksheep
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 21, 2004 12:19 am PT
Review:  Planescape is a game that totally and completely bombed when it was released in 1999. There will 
 not be a sequel, and the developers of the game have been re-hired into different companies around 
 the industry. This is a shame because Planescape: Torment is such an incredible game, and a vast 
 amount of work went into it.
  
  From the menu screens on, the player realizes that this game takes convention and throws it out 
 the window. It is an RPG based upon the Dungeons and Dragons ruleset, but D&D isn't the focus as 
 it is in so many other games. When you create a character, you don't pick your class right away. 
 You assign attribute points, but must later learn your discipline of choice (mage, fighter, cleric, 
 thief) from a character in the game.
  
  The gameplay, while intriguing unto itself, is not what is particularly memorable. What is memorable 
 is the setting, characters, and narrative that all come together to create something totally unlike 
 games in the role playing genre, or in any genre at all. I guess I could sum it up in one word: 
 style. Planescape has it in spades, and if you can appreciate the dark themes that are everywhere 
 in this game, you will be able to appreciate a landmark game that has yet to be matched to this 
 day.
  
  If you are not a patient gamer, or person, you will be frustrated with Planescape. At times it 
 almost feels like a choose-your-own-adventure novel, and is not necessarily a game that lends itself 
 to small little play sessions. Even when it was released back in 1999, the engine wasn't new, and 
 looks very dated now. It is locked at a resolution of 640x480, and doesn't truly have any 3d accelerated 
 effects. The atmosphere and character of the game totally make up for though. It is not an ugly 
 game. Just limited by the engine.
  
  I recently finished playing this game for the first time. At the time of this review it is the 
 20th of November 2004. Five years has not diminished the potency of this gaming experience, and 
 since it is widely available for ridiculous prices ($2.50 at my local used game store) I can recommend 
 it to everyone. Play this game! If you have the maturity to appreciate it, it will blow you away. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sepulcro
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 18, 2004 12:57 am PT
Review:  Black Isle Studios continued its winning streak (see the Fallout series) with the release of Planescape: 
 Torment.
  
  The best things that Torment gave to those of us who played it (although I must admit I did not 
 get around to playing it until 2.5 years after it was released) were fully realized characters, 
 a terrific and original storyline, and something that developers rarely achieve: emotional investment.
 
  
  Many successful games, both past and present, focus on either engaging gameplay (say, Unreal Tournament) 
 or what I call empty awe (say, Doom 3) . This means most games really boil down to descendants of 
 Pong/Tetris/Super Mario Bros. because they are fun to play mechanically, or the first game that 
 made your jaw drop because of the graphics (for me, that would be King's Quest IV) , or a combination 
 of the two. The emotions you feel from great gameplay derive from a sense of fun and a feeling 
 of achievement. The emotions you get from jaw-dropping graphics is just that: you can't believe 
 how realistic everything looks. Unfortunately, from either case, the range of emotions you can 
 get are very limited. That's not to say that those games are bad; indeed, many of them are terribly 
 fun and engaging. However, most of the emotions are self-generated.
  
  Torment made you feel a gamut of emotions about the characters, showing that games can be a mesmerizing 
 and immersive storytelling experience. In fact, Torment was the closest experience to the feelings 
 generated from reading a good book I have ever had in a game. I couldn't wait for the the NPCs 
 in my party to talk to each other, talk to me, make comments on the surroundings. The voice acting 
 was excellent (Sheena Easton is great as Annah) . The plot was compelling and personal for a change 
 (although I love grandiose save-the-world plots in RPGs, I want some variety) , and varied depending 
 on your choices within the game.
  
  Do yourself a favor if you haven't played this game yet: go to eBay and snag a copy. You will not 
 regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TazmanianD
Rating: 9.8
Date: Sep 16, 2004 6:01 am PT
Review:  This game is at the very top of my all-time favorite games list although I realize that it's a 
 bit dated by now.
  
  Perhaps the best part of this game is the writing that went into not just the story, but every 
 conversation, every book, every artifact you find in this game. Many games these days are filled 
 with extra book and stories that you really don't have to read -- and usually don't because they're 
 actually boring -- but Torment is different; everything is a pleasure to read because it's all 
 written well and is very entertaining.
  
  The story itself is awesome as it very intriguing. You wake up in a morgue one day with no memories 
 of your past. The name of a person is tatooed to your back and you set out to find this person 
 who may know something about your past. Oh, and you find out that you have a friend who's nothing 
 but a humorous floating skull.
  
  The gameplay is also awesome. For anyone who loves the Baldur's Gate style of play, they will find 
 a very similar style in Torment and it is one that I enjoy. You can combine different characters 
 with different abilities. I particularly love the detail put into the spells, especially some of 
 the very high level spells that almost turn into mini-movies in the game.
  
  The interaction with the characters is great. Often, the characters will engage in conversations 
 with you or with each other and this adds a great depth of character to them instead of just being 
 a set of random people that you happen to be playing a game with.
  
  This game has a great balance between action and adventure. The level of combat in this game is 
 definitely lower than in most RPGs but is still very significant and very satisfying. To compliment 
 it is also a great deal of investigation as you try to solve or complete the various quests that 
 you are on, many of which have nothing to do with combat. This to me is the sweetest part of the 
 game. You get to play through a story and not simply hack-and-slash your way to the next level.
 
  
  The music is very eerie and evocative and adds a great atmosphere to this game.
  
  Despite the age of this game and what are now dated graphics, I would highly recommend this game 
 to anyone who is a fan of the RPG genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dryden555
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 24, 2004 4:46 pm PT
Review:  I dont give 9 or 10 scores easily and this gets a 10.
  
  Most RPG type games on console or PC's have pretty lame plots and cliche characters. This game 
 unlike any other before or since, contains great characters with "histories" that you learn about 
 when you include them in your party. The detailed stories of these characters are really extraordinary. 
 Someone who could actually write was involved in the making of this game. There are a series of 
 plot-twists along the way and it is very uniikely you will be able to ancticipate them. 
  
  The 2D graphics are well-done: they are bizarrely imaginative and well-painted. The characters 
 are well-animated.
  
  I liked the Baldur's Gate games, but this game uses the same engine and it beats those games easily 
 because of the superior story.
  
  Its a shame there aren't more games like this, with great writing and vivid characters. I even 
 liked the combat though it is only secondary to the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Atomic_Mutant
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 7, 2004 5:02 pm PT
Review:  Planescape: Torment is the game that was unfortunately played by a few yet had left enough impression 
 among the press to garner some distinction of fame. It was indeed 'one of the best games that no 
 one played', I recommend that any self-respecting pc gamer enjoying any medium of rpg should be 
 ill-advised to pass this one.
  
  The most notable strength of the game lies in its carefully conceived plot with sweeping premise; 
 the impressive narrations of a kind never to be encountered in my gaming exprience since. A substantial 
 reading material exits and will be a hassle for some; but the quality of experience that could 
 be gleaned from such immersion into the texts cannot be matched by any visual flair or style. If 
 I can be excused by lifting one of the themes within the game, truly even the simplest sentence 
 can be rendered lethal enough to kill. Yes, the plot of the game is so potent it could render you 
 almost incapable of appreciating other merits of the game, of which there are aplenty.
  
  Such strong plot is evidenced by other aspects of the game that seems to borrow heavily from console 
 plot-driven RPGs. The main character is set and no other variations to the character's aesthetics 
 are possible. The range of types into which the character developement can progress is limited. 
 The linearity of the game is deceptively veiled and adopts a brisk pace despite the deluge of reading 
 material. In a way, it is the western perspective of console RPGs grounded in strictly western 
 environment nurturing a darker theme. If there was as perfect a combination of these two disciplines 
 as any such as this game, I can only recall one other game: Anachronox. 
  
  The game has a serviceable visual, but there are many limitations due to its fixed 640x480 resolution. 
 The limited resolution does lend a telling sign in that ranged weapons are almost non-existant. 
 There is no armor for the main character to speak of. But all in all, the rest would not really 
 matter, they would not hamper you in any way to enjoy the game in its entirety. 
  
  During the course of the game, the main character is beset with the question, 'What can change 
 the nature of man?' The question would be unimportant because giving any response would be a clear 
 act of an individual, it is not limited by the dialogue as you yourself give necessary meaning 
 to the existence of the main character. It is no simple spoiler that I listed, it is how a rpg 
 is meant to be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Elkdog
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 19, 2003 7:30 am PT
Review:  This game is so incredible. It may be my favorite game of all time. It is definetly the best RPG 
 of all time in my opinion. It's a fairly long game and I actually played it twice. The second time 
 was easier because I used a fighter type character. The first time around was with a mage type. 
 I have to say being the mage was much more insteresting because of all the dialogue options with 
 high intelligence and wisdom. The music was great the story was very interesting and original and 
 every character and npc in the game managed to interest me. They all have their own stories and 
 seem a part of a larger world. Most rpgs the characters tell you a bunch of stuff that's entirely 
 uninteresting (Morrowind is an example) but every single character in Planescape was unique (well 
 not all, but a lot) and you actually wanted to hear what they had to say. The only thing that could 
 have been improved on was the ending. I got I think three different endings and the one where I 
 get to talk to my friends was the best, but the small cinematic was kind of dissapointing. If you 
 haven't played this game go out and get it. Even when I bought it two years ago it was 10 or 15 
 dollars. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: azeira_10389
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 21, 2006 3:22 pm PT
Review:  WARNING: If you're only into combat-heavy, hack-and-slash and run-and-gun games, and the idea of 
 reading a dialogue longer than five lines scares you, then Torment is not for you. You CAN go hacking 
 your way through the game and skimming over conversations (it's role-playing, after all) , but then 
 you'd be left disoriented and besides, you'd be missing the real meat of the game. If you DON'T 
 mind a real deep story with lots of reading and role-playing, then you should really give it a 
 try. It's only ten bucks at the Best Buy bargain bin (comes with a free copy of Soulbringer, too!) 
 and it's one of the best CRPGs ever.
  
  The gameworld's jam-packed with lots of little details and individual personalities, and by clicking 
 on everything and everyone I became totally immersed. The story is gripping, and it kept pulling 
 at me all throughout the game until the very end. The storyline of Torment is actually the end 
 of a much longer story, and the Nameless One gradually uncovers bits and pieces of the his past, 
 some of which were actually shocking (that's how good the writing is) , especially since I was playing 
 a Good character. I was never bored, because there's just so much variety that it evokes the sense 
 of a real live world. When I first woke up in the Mortuary and took a look around, I thought naturally 
 that all those wandering zombies were probably clones like the nameless NPCs that normally populate 
 towns in RPGs. Wrong: each one of them was different, and some even had surprises for my character! 
 It must have taken Black Isle months just to write all those lengthy individual dialogues.
  
  The graphics are decent, though rather bleak (which is appropriate for the setting I suppose) 
 and a bit blocky by today's standards. Spell effects are simply breathtaking: even the low-level 
 spells are cast with extensive sound and animation, and the highest-level spells come with full-motion 
 video sequences, of energy bolts zapping asteroids and dragons swooping from the heavens to incinerate 
 your enemies. The creature portraits in the creature gallery are also nicely detailed, as are their 
 descriptions. I love Torment's music; for some weird reason it never seemed repetitive to me the 
 way game music always does. Once I even paused in an area just to keep hearing its music. It's 
 very atmospheric, dreamy in the right times, exciting during battles. Overall, the graphics and 
 sound do a great job, though the gameworld is really brought alive in the writing.
  
  I got the most out of Torment by playing a good mage with very high INT, WIS, and CHA. These three 
 abilities are much more important than in most D&D RPGs, because more of the story gets revealed, 
 and in my opinion the good alignment just added an extra dimension to the emotion of the story.
 
  
  So what are you waiting for? Go explore the Planes, and be sure to talk to everyone, even your 
 own companions from time to time, and pay attention to hints and details, and get sucked into the 
 story and life of the mysterious Nameless One. And oh yes: KEEP THE BRONZE SPHERE! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StrikerGold
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 6, 2003 12:25 pm PT
Review:  Let's be clear: this game has been out for years and while the graphics may not be up to par compared 
 to today's games, it stands the test of time like other RPG masterpieces such as the early Final 
 Fantasy games or Fallout. It is truly a work of art.
  
  As such, when I saw the game sitting in the bargain bin for ten bucks at the local store, I felt 
 compelled to write a review, especially for those who are trying to decide which MMORPG to flush 
 their money to. 
  
  You will find no finer piece of writing in a computer game than Torment, and it truly is the story 
 that drives this game. The characters, especially the Nameless One, your character, are so fully 
 realized as a literary figure, you'd swear it was based on someone real, if there actually was 
 a zombie immortal amensiac. The choice of characters that join your party rival any lineup in a 
 Final Fantasy game: a floating wisecracking skull, a repentant succubus, a zen Klingon/Vulcan-type 
 warrior, a disembodied animated suit of armor, a sultry if brash half demon thief, and those are 
 just those that can join your party. 
  
  The sound is a mix of haunting but memorable music, good sound effects for the fighting in the 
 game, if you choose that route to take. But what trumps all that, is the voice-acting. Mitch Pileggi, 
 David Keith, Sheena Easton, Dan Castellanata, John de Lancie are all top notch bringing life to 
 the NPCs.
  
  The gameplay is where Torment shines. You have a huge amount of flexibility in how you play the 
 game, in fact this game is only the second RPG to truly allow such flexibility, with Fallout being 
 the first. Pump up your strength and just bludgeon your way through the game, though be warned 
 this is probably the most difficult way to play the game. Boost your Intelligence, Charisma and 
 Wisdom and outsmart everyone. Remember, in the Planescape universe, ideas are generally far more 
 powerful than any spell or battle axe. 
  
  I implore anyone out there who has not played this game, if you find it in a bargain bin, you will 
 be getting more than your money's worth! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
