-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: PlanetSide
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/rpg/planetside/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun  2, 2003
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.9
Critic Score: 8.0, 50 Review (s)
User Score: 8.0, 804 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Sony Online Entertainment
Genre: Sci-Fi Online...
Date:     May 20, 2003 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
PlanetSide was clearly the result of a lot of ambitious planning, but much of the game experience 
 depends on technical stability and the performance of other players. 

  When PlanetSide was first announced, some people figured that the bigwigs at Sony Online Entertainment 
 had finally gone crazy. Since so many other first-person shooters can be played online for free, 
 who would be willing pay a monthly subscription fee to play a massively multiplayer shooter, even 
 if it had been developed by some of the same designers responsible for the team-based shooter Tribes 
 2? But PlanetSide has a lot going for it: It has a persistent world with persistent goals that 
 give players real incentives to work in teams, and it has an extremely strict system for dealing 
 with "grief" players -- unruly players who shoot up their own teammates just to spoil their fun. 
 And when you have everything set up ideally -- when you're on a good squad with skilled teammates 
 who are focused on the mission -- PlanetSide offers an experience unlike any other. However, the 
 game currently has a lot of issues that can get in the way of that ideal scenario, so that the 
 game can sometimes end up being less interesting and more tedious than it should be.  

          PlanetSide lets you choose from a variety of different skills, weapons, and vehicles.  
    

  PlanetSide is a futuristic online shooter that lets you play as a soldier in one of three powerful 
 factions: the Terran Republic, the New Conglomerate, and the Vanu Sovereignty. The three factions 
 are involved in a worldwide struggle for power that involves capturing as many bases as possible 
 across the world's many continents. In order to capture a base, you generally need to take it by 
 force with a squad of teammates who have various skills, including hacking (to unlock enemy doors 
 and eventually capture an enemy base's control center) , medical training (to heal and revive wounded 
 allies) , and vehicle certification (to pilot vehicles for scouting, head-to-head combat, or squad 
 transport) . You face tough decisions when developing your character's skills. In fact, PlanetSide 
 is easily the most complicated shooter ever released -- you'll likely spend most if not all of your 
 first few sessions in the game trying to figure out its many interface features for certifications, 
 squad and outfit options, inventory, and chat. By gunning down enemies, capturing bases, and successfully 
 performing other tasks, you're awarded experience points and battle ranks (PlanetSide's version 
 of character levels) that let you purchase certifications to use new weapons, armor types, support 
 gadgets, and vehicles. But once you get used to the game's interface, you'll be able to quickly 
 and easily outfit yourself with whichever weapons, armor, and vehicles you like, since the game 
 lets you save your own personalized settings.  

  These different weapons, vehicles, and armor all look and sound fairly good. PlanetSide's graphics 
 are generally decent, and in some cases they're quite good, especially in its dynamic skies and 
 sweeping outdoor landscapes. However, neither the landscapes nor the game's character, weapon, 
 or vehicle designs are particularly inspired. They all look decent enough, but you, your teammates, 
 and your enemies all look like futuristic soldiers wearing futuristic heavy armor, driving futuristic 
 vehicles, and using conventional weapons, kind of like what you might expect from just about any 
 sci-fi themed game. PlanetSide's music is sparse, and its sound effects for weapon fire are decent 
 enough, though they're not spectacular. The game also features support for real-time voice chat 
 to help you coordinate with your teammates, though this feature doesn't work particularly well. 
 The voice chat often ends up being garbled, drowned out by static, or cut off.  

          The game's real variety comes from the different certifications that you, your teammates, 
 and your enemies can choose.     

  Though the game's different factions have slight differences among their high-end weapons and armor, 
 they're functionally identical -- it's less important to choose one side over another than it is 
 to make sure you and your buddies all play on the same side and the same server. As you might expect 
 from a game developed by Sony Online Entertainment (the creator of the group-focused online RPG 
 EverQuest) , PlanetSide puts a tremendous emphasis on teamwork. The game takes place in a persistent 
 world, and you play as a character who gains experience points that can be used to buy the above-mentioned 
 certifications, but in order to have any chance at all of really advancing your character, you 
 need to make sure you're in a good squad at all times.  

  This is because solo players really don't stand much of a chance in PlanetSide, since most of the 
 action takes place in and around bases guarded by, or attacked by, groups of enemy players -- and 
 no single character can stand against concentrated enemy fire for very long. PlanetSide does offer 
 an "instant action" option that lets you immediately jump to a hot spot where players from your 
 faction are currently fighting with enemy players, but even if you do manage to get a few kills, 
 you'll receive far less experience than you would if you were in a good squad of players, so you'll 
 want to try to be in a group at all times.     

  Unfortunately, putting together a good group and actually coordinating a successful assault can 
 take a lot of time. Essentially, you'll stand around doing nothing, or next to nothing, and shouting 
 on the broadcast channel to get invited into a squad. Then you'll wait as the rest of your squad 
 forms, wait for transportation to your destination if you yourself can't pilot a vehicle, wait 
 to actually arrive at your destination, and wait for everyone else to arrive. In the worst possible 
 case, with no vehicles available, you may end up waiting for your teammates, or your own character, 
 to finish walking all the way to your meeting point. You have the option of using a universal transport 
 known as the High Altitude Rapid Transport (HART) to travel directly to your destination, but unless 
 everyone in your squad takes it, your group may end up divided on arrival. Basically, you'll encounter 
 a surprising amount of inactivity -- especially for a game that's supposed to be a fast-paced first-person 
 shooter -- as you wait for everyone to assemble. You can join an outfit, PlanetSide's version of 
 a persistent player "guild," and while chatting with your fellow outfit members can help get you 
 into a squad faster than randomly shouting for a group, it won't make coordinating an operation 
 any less time-consuming if no one has their act together.  

          There's nothing like joining a good squad and launching a coordinated attack.     

 
  But if you can put together a good squad of skilled players, PlanetSide can offer an exciting 
 and highly distinctive first-person shooter experience. You may have played other multiplayer shooters 
 with team-based objectives such as attacking or defending certain positions, but you've probably 
 never played one in which your character's next permanent experience level (and his next set of 
 certifications) is on the line. PlanetSide makes a few feeble attempts to get you interested in 
 the story of the war between the three playable sides, and you can actually help your faction take 
 over entire continents, but this control really only means you can travel through those territories 
 safely -- there aren't any really meaningful incentives to continue to defend a particular territory, 
 and you'll often find that control of various territories changes hands between the three factions 
 regularly. However, you'll find well-organized battles to be exciting enough on their own. Successfully 
 surviving heavy fire, putting down your enemies, and hacking their base can net you an extra battle 
 rank and new certification points, while getting shot down often means a long walk back from your 
 last spawn point. Better still, if you're the leader of a squad, you also stand to earn command 
 points that can be used to increase your rank as a commander within your faction. Increased rank 
 currently earns you perks like the ability to set in-game waypoints and even send broadcast messages 
 to an entire continent, though the command rank feature itself will likely become more important 
 as the game (and its players) mature, and as Sony Online Entertainment expands on it.  

  It's these potential rewards and losses that really help distinguish PlanetSide's battles from 
 what would otherwise be standard sci-fi first-person shooter firefights. Depending on which certifications 
 you choose, you'll be able to use assault rifles, grenade launchers, miniguns, sniper rifles, and 
 others, and these weapons behave much like they do in any other first-person shooter. In addition, 
 you, your teammates, and your enemies may acquire certifications to wear heavy combat armor or 
 stealth armor and to lay traps for your enemies in the form of mines and grenades.  

  PlanetSide uses the same sort of lenient physics used in arcade-style first-person shooters, so 
 any skills you may have developed in other games should transfer over to PlanetSide intact, as 
 should any team-based skills you may have developed as a medic, pilot, or driver in other team-based 
 games. The different armor types, weapons, and vehicles collectively add a good deal of variety 
 to PlanetSide's battles, which are, at their best, at least as interesting as those in other popular 
 team-based games such as Battlefield 1942 and Counter-Strike.  

          Despite its technical and gameplay issues, PlanetSide offers a unique challenge.     

 
  Unfortunately, it can sometimes be difficult to truly enjoy PlanetSide's battles because of the 
 game's occasional but exceedingly annoying stability problems. The game currently suffers from 
 periodic bouts of lag that can at best break up the action and at worst get you killed by enemy 
 fire while you remain rooted to the spot. PlanetSide also currently has some problems with crashes 
 and disconnects (or "going linkdead") , which can break up a squad and, in rare cases, thwart a 
 last-minute attempt to recover from a failing attack or defense effort -- if you're on the verge 
 of losing a campaign, having some or all of your squad get disconnected can very well mean certain 
 defeat, despite your best efforts.  

  PlanetSide was clearly the result of a lot of ambitious planning on the part of some very talented 
 designers, but as it stands, much of the game experience depends on technical stability and the 
 performance and skill of other players. In terms of stability, PlanetSide isn't where it needs 
 to be yet -- the game still suffers from annoying lag and disconnect problems that need to be fixed. 
 In terms of player skill, you'll find that although the game's strict handling of "grief" play 
 helps encourage players to work as a team, your enjoyment of the game will largely depend on how 
 experienced, skilled, and focused your teammates are. The less organized your team is, the longer 
 you may have to wait for it to assemble, deploy, and formulate a plan of attack at your destination. 
 However, if you think you can surmount the game's learning curve and whip a squad of like-minded 
 recruits into shape, you'll find that PlanetSide offers a unique and potentially very enjoyable 
 challenge.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (60 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Cerebris
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 12, 2008 8:59 am PT
Review:  Planetside was a jewel among games... 
  
  I can say that I am honestly majorly disappointed with the future that SoE decided to take this 
 game.
  
  The initial release was spectacular, and the calling of the CR5's was superb, as they were true 
 team leaders, and had true tactics and skills... unfortunately several outfits (the equivalent 
 of guilds or clans) that were not very... well the best word I can think of is "honorable" started 
 to become very popular and began to detract from the skill of other outfits, and of course the 
 content and intellectual value of the players in the games. With the balance of control being taken 
 by new factions such as Sturmgrenadier, outfits such as SEPH, and others were slowly or quickly 
 taken out of the picture, and thus a large degree of CR5's decided to no longer play, or to take 
 up new characters or even a new server. 
  
  These events, as well as the patches and updates, and the immature behavior that is the generally 
 accepted norm in mmo's these days (and it seems online play as a whole) started to... break apart 
 the maturity of the game community, the intelligence, the tactical apparatus's, and of course the 
 skill of other players.
  
  However, this game lacked cheats, hacks, or really any such vibrant form of hurting others in the 
 game, and so still remained solid, though many complained of "Newbhammers" and "Lashers", and other 
 insults for the weapon users of the factions Republic, Sovereignty, and Conglomerate... (you'll 
 have to forgive me for not remembering them all, as I haven't played for a while) and thus still 
 remained a solid form of entertainment... unlike good games like C&C Renegade, and other such multi 
 fps's (though this was in a different breed of its own) .
  
  However the problems started the most when the community wanted a big CHANGE, and so Core Combat 
 was made... and though it had great potential, the story wasn't fleshed out enough unfortunately, 
 and it just added new outposts, and a few new clever, but simple weapons and cheap vehicles (such 
 as the flail) .
  
  The underground portion was widely underused aside from some module runners, and new players enjoying 
 the area (though in reality new players didn't have the necessarily tech to really survive or enjoy 
 it to the most) , and with the lack of bugs or glitches in the whole game, as well as such an underground 
 level... well things were still stable, but with the lack of use, many people didn't even decide 
 to buy Core Combat.
  
  But that was just the schism... the real destruction game when the literal schism did occur. "Aftershock" 
 brought "Battle-frame Robotics" or to most immature people "Big f-ing robots" that were individualized 
 but balanced for each faction, and basically destroyed many of the tactics and skill required to 
 play the game.
  
  I haven't touched this game for a very long time, as now they've made it near free... and they 
 are trying their best to get people back into it, but when they made a new "appealing site" in 
 place for their intelligent, gathered, and VASTLY SUPERIOR one, it was obvious that the focus was 
 changing, and they didn't want to spend that MANY resources on an uncertain product, which is only 
 uncertain because of their changes.
  
  In total the game was grand, but it is now nothing more than a 4.5, in my eyes.
  
  I suggest 
 anyone willing to try it, do so however, as the touch of the past can still be seen, and it is 
 still a fun game I hear... but with a much less mature and involved community.
  
  - Cere. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nephallim
Rating: 7.4
Date: Mar 7, 2008 12:47 pm PT
Review:  You've never seen my name on any Top charts and I'm not anyone that was well-known in any communities. 
 Of course, if Ostekake was the name he went by in PS, I never heard of the dude, so there's a few 
 grains of salt to take there.
  
  I received a copy of Planetside for free at GenCon in '03 or maybe '04. To this day, I'm not sure 
 if the cute booth-girl was giving me the game or if I was supposed to have walked to a nearby register 
 to pay for it. I walked away with it, so the outcome is easy.
  
  It was probably 6 months or more before I had a computer, though, and it was a late night with 
 my brand new laptop whenever I decided to see if the free trial was still valid. It was. I remember 
 that was a Wednesday and I probably played until 3 or 4 in the morning. Work the next day sucked. 
 Second wind had kicked in by the time I got home and I starting playing immediately, stopping only 
 to make some instant noodles and line up some sodas next to me. I think I fed my cat that night. 
 Maybe. I called in sick to work the next day, having not slept yet. I think I napped whenever the 
 servers went down for maintenance but was anxiously trying to reconnect as soon as they were supposed 
 to have been back up.
  
  So, in that first 96 hours of having Planetside, I think I slept 8 to 10 of them.
  
  The irony? 
 I hate... hate hate hate hate HATE first person shooters. I suck at them. All these little kids 
 who do nothing else but play and whose reflexes are SO much sharper than mine. And, in the beginning, 
 time spent playing mattered a lot... no matter what anyone tells you. At that time, you started 
 with enough Certifications to start in a single direction with a character and you needed to level 
 a bit to earn the few more Certs to get that build solid. Then you needed even more to balance 
 yourself out so that you had options outside of your specialization when needed.
  
  But it was innovative and ambitious... and, while horribly unstable and unbalanced, it was a great 
 concept.
  
  Some of my fondest gaming moments and oft-told stories are from Planetside. From a guy named Byrd 
 who was the best enemy I ever had and who made taking a horrible beating entertaining to finally 
 getting an Outfit who would follow my orders instead of zerging like the teenagers on "Command 
 Chat" insisted on calling strategy. I will always smile whenever I think about me, a pitiable Command 
 Rank 2, leading a wing of air cavalry and dropships to salvage a poorly planned assault by those 
 "Commanders" only to have them question why so many people were following a CR2. I will smile broader 
 when I remember the reply from someone I didn't know... "At least he knows what the hell he's doing. 
 So go call in an orbital strike somewhere and get out of our way."
  
  I miss the silly kids in the Vanu Mafia, who would regularly go play on some remote continent just 
 to see how long it would take people to come see what we were up to. I miss being so annoyed with 
 DireWolf (or however he l33t spelled his name) , that I picked up a bolt driver and followed him 
 around for a whole night, Griefing him until I couldn't shoot any more (and was then offered $20 
 to switch to another character to keep doing it, because his whining was amusing some people) . 
 I miss being at the apex of a dozen-strong wing of Reavers and watching a carpet of rockets blanket 
 a target. I miss ANTs being viable weapons when dropped from a Galaxy.
  
  I went back for a while, some time ago. The BFRs just make the vehicle-centric play that had formed 
 before I first left so much worse. It was more frustrating than it ever was and, with but a fraction 
 of the playerbase left, the battles were not varied enough to let me enjoy finding a niche to play 
 within.
  
  I will miss Planetside. It held my attention for a very long time and for all of its flaws, it 
 was an innovative and noteworthy game. Maybe I'll pick up a Pulsar again and have a giggle as attacking 
 snipers find auto-turrets popping up behind them... that's so much more fun than detonating mines 
 under their squating hindquarters any day. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ultragamer2005
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 20, 2007 6:41 pm PT
Review:  After playing World of Warcraft a year ago, I hated it. So I tried Guild Wars. Hated it. Then Anarchy. 
 Guess what? I hated it. I hated Everquest. I hated Hellgate. This game fixes all the problems I 
 had with them.
  
  One of the main problems was grinding. A lot of companies use grinding as a cheap way to get the 
 players to play the game. What it really does is bore them to tears and make them quit the game. 
 I don't know why the put it in, and I also wonder why so many people like World of Warcraft, but 
 it certainly needs to be replaced.
  
  This game takes a ton of the grinding away and only leaves some remains. Sure, you have to gain 
 experience for Command Rank and Battle Rank, but you'll get that without even noticing it. Plus, 
 you don't need it. Certifications only give you new things. They don't make you instantly better 
 at anything (another reason I hated World of Warcraft) . I found myself actually playing the game 
 for fun; not for leveling up.
  
  Another problem was repetitiveness and lame combat. In most MMOs, you found yourself doing the 
 same tedious combat, clicking and watching, clicking and watching, clicking and watching. It gets 
 boring! This game still has some repetitiveness, but pays back with top-of-the-line combat and 
 better gameplay. Even when almost every battle had the same objective, it was hard for me to get 
 bored. It was different enemies, different tactics, and different methods. No battle was the same.
 
  
  Overall, this game is one of the best MMOs ever. It still has some flaws (such as the graphics 
 being outdated and combat isn't really a revolution in the FPS genre) , but overall it's great. 
 If you're looking for an MMO that has more action and is not just a way to pass time, look no further.
 
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ObjectiveTruth
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 4, 2007 7:02 pm PT
Review:  This game is by far the best game ever created. Of course it does have its pitfalls
  
  Unfortunately, the pitfalls are all due to technical issues.
  
  The game itself, if you can 
 get past all the bad programming is one of incredible ingenuity and just pure fun.
  
  This is the kind of game where leadership really matters. A war is waged based on real people's 
 reactions. The art of war is real in this game. When you make a decision you make it within your 
 rank. Everyone has a purpose.
  
  In the game you attain Command Ranks which is a different kind of experience you get for leading 
 a squad to do objectives. Every time you go up a rank, you can speak to those of similar rank in 
 your area. This creates a real command hierarchy where the lower squad leaders are called on by 
 the higher commanders to do objectives. In my experience, we were in a clan that specialized in 
 special operations. Going behind enemy lines and disrupting supply lines. Our leader was often 
 called upon by the cr5s (the highest rank) to destroy a generator as they were getting ready to 
 orchestrate a way to attack a new base on a new front.
  
  No game will ever immerse you as much as this game will.
  
  If you like teamwork then this 
 is the game to play.
  having said that the other problem is population, something that is seriously lacking. :- ( 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sexyneo
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 3, 2007 7:47 am PT
Review:  Well planet side was one of the best mmofps out there back in the days, but with recent new fps 
 online and BF 2 and 2142 ET and so on planet side with years took a fall down but with 2 expension 
 pack and a lot of work form SOE the game became more stable i won; t say there no more lags or bugs 
 but the game like ive said is pretty stable all the way most of the time or so. But the prob are 
 no big deals . Anyway the game play is fun having 2 different ennemy at the time can be challenging 
 lol but quite amuzing and of course the music is particually right and good for the game i would 
 say that if you like a fps online with a lot of friends and foes well go try it out you won; t regret 
 it . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Grantelicious
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 7, 2007 7:32 am PT
Review:  I used to be in Planetside beta back in early 2003 and i thought the bases would be placeholder 
 ones until more dynamic and better looking unique ones came in, nope SOE just released the game 
 in May of that year. At the time Planetside was a game with some things missing but still ALOT 
 of fun because it was the gimmick of having large scale FPS battles that you've never seen before 
 of i think it was upto like 1000 back then but i know it was cut down to 600 (200 a side) which 
 might have changed again now.
  
  So at the time i just finished college and spent my whole summer not getting a job and playing 
 Planetside non stop, it was THAT much fun. The battles were sooo intense and great fun with all 
 the vehicles and weapon loadouts that you could spend all day on it. Also Planetside has levels 
 BR (battle rank) and CR (command rank) and basically they don't make you anymore powerful in battle 
 like giving you more health. All levels are there for is to give you you more options on what you 
 can use, basically you get 1 SP per level to spend and you start off with a few too. CR however 
 will give you more commanding skills like writing on the map or palcing way points or even obital 
 strikes to kill mass people quickly with a very long cool down.
  
  So the weapons/armor and vehicles you'll be buying with these skill points some in certs which 
 at the time you had to buy each item on their own. Now vehicles come in little groups or upgrades 
 so buy one item and you'll be allowed to buy the next. It really makes Planetside still lightyears 
 ahead of everyother FPS because it has sooo many weapons and vehicles and combinations + armor 
 too. They come in common pool (most of the equipment and vehicles are these) this means every faction 
 can use it. Faction specific which means only your faction can use that weapon. Also Stolen so 
 if your a adv hacker then you can hack another factions stuff even if it's not common pool and 
 use it.
  
  The three factions which are terran Republic, vanu sovereignty and new conglomerate. The Terran 
 are in red and they have fast firering weapons which do lower dmg but because they fire fast your 
 more likely to hit more often. Vanu (my fave) are in alien technology and their vehicles float 
 above ground also their weapons can change from armor pericing to normal rounds without having 
 to cary the seperate ammo for it. The Vanu's lasher also can do splash damage which is very effective 
 in coriddors + lasher 2.0 ftw. NC have one shot LOTS of power but a longer cool down till next 
 shot as they use alot of shotgun type things. Their Tank was the most powerful but the slowest 
 too but everyone feared it.
  
  The problem with Planetside is because the way they designed it the game was always going to get 
 boring fast. Theres only a few types of bases and they all really look the same so your fighting 
 in the same bases across boring continents all the time and noone ever wins. Sure you can win the 
 island but then you all leave to fight for another island and by that time they'd be hacking it 
 again.
  
  What i wanted for Planetside was original bases and little cities. One of the developers i spoke 
 to said they wanted all that too but SOE made them make a expansion from launch to be ready with 
 little testing 3 months later. the expansion was released in Sept 03 and was callec Core Combat. 
 Basically it added some new weapons you could only get from going down into the caves and hacking 
 it connecting it to your bases above ground. The caverns were really poorly designed and while 
 they gave the city type gameplay we wanted, it was in the wrong place. The world was already big 
 enough and it just added more space, they should have put them above ground in city form and not 
 aload of rocks underground that looked ugly.
  
  So after that expansion many people quit because they were hoping it would get rid of their boredom. 
 Later on in 2004 SOE decided to do the bending and BFR's which just totally ruined the game and 
 most people quit to the horrible population we have today. Basically in short BFR's were some overpowered 
 walking tank that made all other vehicles useless. Then bending got rid of Oshur island and replaced 
 it with a horrible map and 4 smaller islands which sucked.
  
  Now with the small population Planetside is showing it's age with most new additions to the game 
 if it has any at all being for veterans and not new players. It's a slowly dying mmo and forever 
 hard to find a battle specially on the Euro server so if your from there your screwed. It's such 
 a shame because Planetside lost alot of the original developers due to SOE's ways of rushing everything. 
 It could have been a amazing game but instead it's a slowly dying one.
  
  However i had ALOT of fun with Planetside and was sooo amazing before it got ruined to no hope. 
 Yes Beta 2003 till sept 2003 was the most perfect time with Planetside and thats when we saw the 
 biggest battles and was just amazing.
  
  So my pre Sept 2003 score: 9/10
  
  My now score....... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ostekake2
Rating: 7.3
Date: Apr 28, 2007 5:30 pm PT
Review:  I started out as everybody else back in 2003 but quickly advanced in command rankings and by the 
 end of 2004 i was ranked #2 in the world all servers all empires. Only beaten by my good friend 
 JeffBeefJaw :)
  
  So as an experienced Planetside player i figured, why not write up something when looking back 
 at what Planetside was.
  Planetside is different. Planetside is in my opinion the best mmorpg.
  Yes, RPG ! You dont agree 
 ? read on...
  
  Planetside did (and still do) provide players with the first chance to truly take team gameplay 
 to the next level. By providing a game platform that would bring together up to 366 players in 
 a playfield about twice the size of the average unreal tournament or counter strike map.
  The carnage and high octane action fps you could get from 300+ twitchy and highly trained multilevel 
 teams clashing every time all three empires would converge on a base of strategic importance is 
 unsurpassed by any other game.
  
  So why RPG ?
  Well, when you start out your first character you are imidiatly give every opportunity to be whatever 
 you want to be. From transport pilot, medic, heavy weapons specialist or whatever floats your boat.
 
  Outfits (as clans are called in PS) always have certain roles that needs filling so as soon as 
 you get into one you can actually do something you like that means something for other players 
 around you.
  It kinda gave me a huge kick knowing that when we decided to launch an attack on our enemies, readied 
 and loaded up 100+ players in air transports (galaxies) , there was nothing else that would ensue 
 massive panic and complete readiness amongst our enemies awaiting our onslaught.
  Often i would get reports back Holy (rears end) its an Ostekake galaxy raid ! ! ! - those where 
 the days :)
  
  The only way you can coordinate that many players towards common goals in a game is if these players, 
 understand, respect and profesionally execute their own role and the role of others in their team.
 
  In this way, Planetside, was the best RPG i have ever played !
  
  So what does other games have to learn from Planetside ?
  Well, first of all - the amount of 
 online gamers clashing in a small and confined area without utterly and completely lagging out.
 
  Second, it was'nt any grinding, as soon as you logged in you could be anything you wanted to be. 
 You could even create a new character just because your outfit needed you to fulfill a certain 
 role for the night - that made the team play very easy.
  Last but not least, the every single tactical and strategical, both local and global actions or 
 objectives, had a meaning. From the single solo playing guy who saved the day for hundreds of other 
 players - actually making a REAL difference for others, to global command of hundreds and hundreds 
 of players towards common strategical goals.
  
  World of Warcraft tried and utterly failed, they had to resort to tiny play fields with their battlegrounds 
 and they had to totaly nerf players ability to lead across guilds by using global chat.
  Why ?
  Well, Blizzard ignored the fact that with power comes responsibility to treat your fellow 
 players respectfully and as human beings and not as your personal cartoony rag dolls you can bash 
 and throw around as you please. In Planetside they let the community evolve and only those players 
 with the right abilities would in the end get the job done with leading and sharing responsibilities 
 for the unbelievable task of actualy coordinating that many players at one time, trust me its NOT 
 a one man gig. Mix this with cultural, ethical and political differences among the hard core of 
 20-30 regular commanders per server and you got issues to solve. Mostly we could resolved our differences, 
 because we where trusted by the game administrators to do so - and in the end we did. So yes, we 
 had our arguments in command chat, TRUST ME we did ;)
  If this was the intentions of SOE or just plain ignorance doesnt matter.
  The end result was 
 good, simply because SOE unleashed the community and let it evolve. Thus history was made and Planetside 
 will forever stand in history for me as the best Fantasy first person shooter role playing game, 
 EVER !
  
  In short, if you have not tried planetside yet... You should !
  Because it represents something realy special when it comes to game mechanics.
  
  Now i'm looking 
 forward to Funcom's Age of Conan and truly hope they can learn from both their community experience 
 in Anarcy Online and look at what other games have done. Then maybe, just maybe, we can get to 
 see something truly unique in gaming history.
  
  To put it in planetside lingo...
  Think Xbox instant action spawn in a galaxy seat, millions of online Xbox players just itching 
 to enjoy being cannonfodder, combined with real deep - in depth - lore and a massive MMORPG, building 
 on all the mistakes of former MMOs. Then mix that with thousands of guilds across hundreds of servers 
 in one seamless gigantic pvp battlefield set in a violent and grotesq world where individuals and 
 groups of players battle it out for fame and glory. Its truly a I have a dream vision.
  Might be worth to mention that all this comes in a FullHD 60 frames per second presentation and 
 if this comes to pass then Hollywood realy needs to start looking for something else to do..
  
  We can only hope :)
  
  Thank you for reading my ramblings and please forgive my none native 
 english, i hope it wasnt to bad... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: boku14
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 5, 2007 3:43 pm PT
Review:  so, you are looking around the web, to figure out if you should buy this game. well maybe you should 
 know some stuff first. like, this game is an FPSMMORPG (yea, long title huh?) . once you buy the 
 game, and install it. you will have to update it. which can take up to 3 hours. now hold on, don't 
 leave! after it updates you will go to a main menu, and pick a server. which, is split up into 
 three time zones (EST, PST, and EURO) . then you have to pick a faction. there are a total of three 
 factions in the game. 1st you have the Vanu (no not the car....) , who likes to put the color purple 
 on EVERYTHING they own. the Vanu like using super Tech (even if it is not that good...) , lasers, 
 energy weapons, shields, ect... they want to take over the world through cool looking tech *cough* 
 attack of the Geeks *cough*. 2nd you have the Terran Republic, who likes to put the color red on 
 everything they own (starting to see a pattern here?) . the TR (nickname for Terran Republic) like 
 to show that they are badass by having super-rapid-fire weapons, chain-guns, gattling-guns, rapid-fire 
 pistols, ect... they want to take over the world using there rapid-fire weapons, and there coolness 
 *cough* Rambo wanna-bes *cough*. last you have the New Con (hmm...) , they use the color blue on 
 there stuff. and they like the power weapons , shotguns, missiles, magno-rifles, ect... lets just 
 say if you like to nuke the crap out of an enemy, you might just like this faction. they are simple 
 people, who take up arms to kick the living daylights out of anything that comes near them.
  
  all of this, + countless weapons, tanks, jets, water-tanks, mechs, and even hover-craft are 
 in this game. there is also a command part of the game, where you can lead from Squads, to whole 
 armys. though, most of the players who can lead whole armys, are dumb 12-years olds who would not 
 know a tactic if it bit them in the butt!
  
  so, in short, if you feel like spending hours and hours blowing away people online, without all 
 that you must save the king! crap in RPGs, GET THIS GAME!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GenTom
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 24, 2006 2:10 am PT
Review:  I'll just tell you right here and now that I'm thoroughly impressed. I have spent the last month 
 entrenched in one of Sony's latest online offerings, which goes by the name Planetside. Before 
 you ask, NO! I have never played Everquest. I don't know why. It just never appealed to me but 
 Planetside does. I'm not sure if the reason is that the game takes place in a futuristic technology-driven 
 society or if it's because the game is a first-person shooter which encourages team-based play. 
 Whatever the reason, I'm hooked. Planetside basically boils down to a massive online game of Risk. 
 You have the choice to play as a member of one of the game's 3 factions -- the Terran Republic, the 
 New Conglomerate, or the Vanu Sovereignty. Each faction has its own strengths and weaknesses and 
 each is trying to take over the planet. Depending on which faction you choose, weapons, vehicles, 
 and armor will vary. Now, I know some of you out there are reading this and saying to yourself, 
 Great, Another #$!@*% online multiplayer game. But believe me when I tell you that this one's different. 
 You can jump in and play right out of the box. Unlike Everquest, all players are equally vulnerable 
 on the battlefield. Also, unlike many other online multiplayer games, a veteran's rank will not 
 protect him from a newbie. If you've got a gun and can get a jump on or seek up behind a Planetside 
 veteran, you have the upper hand. High-powered weapons and better armor can be acquired by using 
 what the game refers to as certification points. Through battle experience you can acquire new 
 ranks. For each new rank, you receive one certification point, which can then be used to unlock 
 new weapons, armor, vehicles, etc. Also, you are given grief points if you wound or kill someone 
 on your team. Accumulated grief points can result in penalties ranging from warnings to losing 
 weapon privileges. You can make your character specialize in a specific area or be a jack of all 
 trades. For example, if you're not the greatest shot in the world, you can buy a certification 
 which gives you the ability to become a medic, an engineer, a hacker, a pilot, or a host of other 
 professions, all with the ability to excel in that area. This makes for an amazingly diverse player 
 population. When you first log into the game you're on your own. And let me tell you, if you expect 
 to log in and wreak havoc alone, you can forget it. Progressing in Planetside, as a single player, 
 is near on impossible. The easiest way to play the game is to find a group of people to play with. 
 These groups are known as squads. A squad is, basically, a group of people who travel within the 
 game together. The advantage to this is that each squad contains players with different abilities. 
 One player may be able to fly a transport ship while another may have expertise is driving an assault 
 tank. Make no mistake. Planetside is, at its heart, a squad-based shooter. Depending on which faction 
 you choose to play for, your goal during the game is to take over as many enemy structures (i. e. 
 bases, labs, guard towers, etc.) as possible. Not only do you have to deal with the resistance 
 that you encounter, but you also have to enter the structure and hack a computer. This may seem 
 like a simple feat, but hacking a computer takes no less than 15 minutes in real time. During which 
 time, the person hacking the main control console can not move and the structure goes into complete 
 lock-down. Other squad members have to watch his/her back. Also, medical consoles, equipment terminals, 
 etc. will not work. As good as the squad system works in the game, it has its problems. For example, 
 if you're in a squad and you log out of the game, you're dropped from the squad. If you try to 
 reenter the game, you have to find your squad again, start your own squad, or join a new squad. 
 This is probably not a game flaw. It was probably built this way to encourage players to meet new 
 people. However, it's an annoyance if you've found five or ten guys that you really enjoy playing 
 with and want to play with them all the time. The game allows you to find people you've played 
 with before by the use of a friends list. Any name that you put on the friends list will stay there. 
 The next time you log into the game, it will tell you if that person is online or not. This feature 
 is great, but it has one minor problem. Although you can see if they're online, you can't tell 
 where in the game-world they are. You can try and find them using Broadcast Chat but if they have 
 deactivated Broadcast Chat, they won't see your message. The addition of the ability to private 
 message a friend would easily fix this problem. Another option is to join an Outfit. An Outfit 
 is a squad of 10 or more people with added benefits. In a stroke of genius, the developers of Planetside 
 decided to incorporate voice-chat, which makes working with your squad much easier. How does it 
 look? I can honestly say that Planetside is one of the best-looking games Ive ever played, online 
 or otherwise. The game takes place over ten continents with varying terrain, atmosphere, and weather 
 conditions. Whatever type of realistic environment you can imagine, it's in the game trees, lakes, 
 fields, deserts, mountains, etc. With all of its graphical splendor, you might expect severe lag-time. 
 While the game has its fair share of lag-time, there have not been many times when my gameplay 
 experience was affected by it. I give the net team at Sony credit for that. The sound in the game 
 is what you would expect in a war zone. Transports moving overhead and tanks rolling by are common 
 occurrences in Planetside. It really adds to the immersivness of the game. So what's the final 
 verdict? Well, this is a great game with only a few minor problems. There are tons of online first-person 
 shooters out there but none can quite reach this level. I'm very excited to see how the developers 
 tweak and change this game in the future. Can you say industrial espionage?
  
  Graphics: 9
  
  This game looks fantastic. I don't care how long you've been playing games or 
 how jaded you are. This game will drop your jaw. The environments are believable and the planet 
 has a day and night cycle that makes me want to cry. It doesn't get any prettier than this. Sound: 
 9
  
  Everything that you would expect in a wartime environment is here. Heavy tanks, fighter planes, 
 machine guns -- you name it, it's here. Everything sounds absolutely incredible. Of course depending 
 on the sound setup on your PC, the experience may vary but those with 4 or 5 piece sound systems 
 will be glad they have them. All-in-all the sound adds to a game and makes you believe you're in 
 a wartime environment. Gameplay: 9
  
  This game is flat-out fun. It takes the first-person action that we all know and love and places 
 it in an online world that will keep you coming back for more. Switching from play mode to the 
 chat screen and back again is a bit cumbersome but you get used to it. The interface could be simplified 
 a bit but all-in-all it works. Replayability: 9
  
  There really is no end to the game. I could concievably see myself getting bored with this game, 
 but not anytime soon. The fact that the game never really ends keeps it fresh. The ability of the 
 developers to add new wrinkles into the game will keep you coming back for more. The manual is 
 by no means small. It spans 52 pages and contains everything you'll need to know to get started 
 in the game and become an effective player. The games website also contains FAQs, technical support, 
 and anything else you might need. Summary: 8.4/10
  
  This is a great game. Yes! It will suck your life away but it's worth it. Buy it now! You know 
 you want it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrTWiggy
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 9, 2006 12:17 pm PT
Review:  Wow.... where do I start? Ok. For one thing, this game was made back waaaaaaay back in the days 
 of 2003. Now everyone knows that 2003 had some pretty crappy games ever made that year. Well this 
 game was made from that year and surprisingly, its really freakin' cool!!!! If you watch shows 
 like Firefly, Stargate, or Battle Star Galactica, and you have a vivid imagination of mass war 
 between 3 nations then you have PlanetSide!
  
  Gameplay - Basically, this is your typical 1st/3rd person shooter set in the future. Heres what 
 your going to do: Get to know your weapons and vehicles, build strategies, join squads (basically 
 grinding parties) , then on to outfits (your typical guild) , and enjoy the game! The game is great 
 at making you feel like a very small contribution to a very big war. Every kill counts and helps 
 you gain your next Battle Rank which allow you to gain implants (abilities) and Certificate points 
 which can be used to acquire new weapon classes and vehicles. There are the 3 armies ranging from 
 the Terran Republic, the New Conglomerate, and the Vanu Sovereignty each with their own pros and 
 cons. The game is very deep on gameplay and strategy, especially if your a squad commander, You 
 didnt think ordering new recruits around could be so much fun!
  
  Graphics - For a game from 2003 it is surprising that it can look so good! If you have ever played 
 Unreal Tournament 2004 then the graphics from that resemble PlanetSide a great deal. The planets 
 are colorful, and the textures are quite solid. Since it is an older game it does lack the little 
 Glints and Glimmers of now-a-days graphically improved games. Nonetheless, its not going to gross 
 you out. ;)
  
  Sound - HOLY CRAP TAKE COVER!!!! This game excels in sound, every gun you fire has a different 
 sound effect all with their uniqueness and they all sound like they fit the weapon from which you 
 fire from. When bombs are being dropped on you above you can hear the beautiful sound of bombs 
 dropping and killing people ;) . Ahhh the memories of WWII!
  
  Value - This game will go a long ways with value. It can be worth starting from ground zero again 
 and getting the certificates that match what you need to do. There is almost never a dull moment 
 in the game and seeing as how their are so many freakin patches (what? A FIVE HOUR DOWNLOAD FOR 
 PATCHES?!?!?!) that it is worth it because most of them fix the bugs of the game from 2003 and 
 adds more to the gameplay than what was originally there. Overall, I will be playing this game 
 for quite a while.
  
  Tilt - Everything seems to be in place... the only thing that I can note is the physics and the 
 collision damage are a little off in the game. It doesnt take anything down from the gameplay, 
 but it can be annoying at times. The grief system is a little weird too. (TeamKill System)
  
  If you have gotten bored of everything else then I strongly recommend PlanetSide. Its an easy 
 Recommendation to Scifi and FPS fans alike. As far as the MMO part plays, this ain't know Medieval 
 hack/slash game so the kills can be pretty freakin' hard to get. But, like every other game, theres 
 always an easy way to level up =P. See ya Around the BattleField! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: d0a0n0i0
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 5, 2006 10:28 am PT
Review:  Ok, there you are, behind a tree. There are 30 enemy troops heading your way. There's at least 
 6 bombers flying above your head. Your team's been scattered by the opposing force. What do you 
 do? You low on suppressor ammo so you can't fight them, and anyways you'd probably die. If you 
 run one of them's bound to see you. You could call for backup, but what if no one replies? Make 
 the right choice, or it may be the last choice you ever make. Thats just one of the intense moments 
 you can encounter in Planetside. This game is just amazing. It ain't like any other game you've 
 played son. This isn't one of those team death-match game where it just run, duck ,peak, shoot, 
 run. This is a game where you have to strategies. Not by your self but with your team. In most 
 other games you can run around the map by yourself and be fine. But this game, you must stay together 
 or you're history. Oh and the maps... Those ain't maps those are PLANETS!!! Thats right you fight 
 on a planet not a map! ANd the vehicles really help in large scale battle (we're talking 100 vs 
 100) This ain't PvP this is EvE (empire s empire)
  Just try planetside reserves to get a taste of it o and the only downside is the monthly fees which 
 is $13 bucks a month so play planetside reserves! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CheeseGuardian
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 6, 2006 6:31 pm PT
Review:  If it works, and you get organized into a squad / outfit / platoon or whatever... this game is 
 really amazing. Tons of vehicles and different armor / weapon options and different gameplay roles 
 make this game one of the best FPS's I've ever played. It's VERY addicting.......
  
  But then again.............. there's always the camping and idlers you can expect from every FPS...... 
 and it's never any fun to travel for a half-hour just for a BFR (Battle Frame Robotics, A. K. A "Big 
 Friggin' Robot") to wipe you out. But believe me, the good FAR outweighs the bad, it's just a matter 
 of getting set up to play 
  
  The three teams are balanced fairly well, so the course of the battle is usually determined by 
 the skill of a commander. The game is all about getting organized enough to strategically take 
 continents.
  
  (BTW, the game has some serious crash issues, but most of these can be eliminated by simply putting 
 your video settings to 'low'.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JimLad800
Rating: 9.8
Date: Aug 1, 2006 9:40 am PT
Review:  I can't even remember why I picked this game up in summer of 2003. I had just got a new PC and 
 decided to buy a good looking online game to test it.
  
  but OH... MY... GOD...
  No game has ever consumed me over as much time as this one.
  I say over as much time because 
 I've taken breaks from it on numerous occasions as I'm sure most have. But I just keep coming back 
 to it over and over. 
  You think Star Wars Galaxies will make you quit, and it doesn't. 
  You think World of Warcraft will make you quit, and it doesn't.
  
  The thing is, if you like 
 PvP in MMO games, NOTHING out there does it better than this. Of course it doesn't have all the 
 role playing elements and adventuring of a MMORPG, it's just 100% player on player puree, no levels, 
 no rares, no fixed choices. (minus your faction choice)
  
  There are some MINOR performance issues in regards to lag, I think you can get round this by having 
 an ultra top-end PC, but even without one it's still hella fun.
  IMO the only people who have a problem with this game are whiners and cry-babies. They don't seem 
 to realise this isn't Everquest with guns or Unreal with just more people. This is war, savage, 
 brutal and many a times unfair. But that's how it goes, you either learn from your mistakes and 
 play smarter next time, or throw your toys out the pram and piss off back to whatever run of the 
 mill **** you were playing before.
  
  So, what is Planetside?
  I won't go into detail because there is just SO much in this game, you'll have to read up or better 
 still, try it out.
  The idea is pretty simple really...
  It's an online FPS. You pick one of 3 warring factions for your character and then go fight with 
 several hundred other players at a time for control of bases. There are loads of unique weapons, 
 armours and vehicles which you can learn to use. (and unlearn to get the skillpoints back for something 
 else) You fight on huge battle continents of all kinds of terrain, deserts, snow, swamps, coastlines, 
 bridges, mountains, cliffs, as well as giant caverns with numerous hieght levels.
  
  One of its defineing features is there's just so many ways you can play it. 
  
  Infantry, artillery, 
 defence technician, support, medic, heavy armoured, cloaker, convoy assault, vehicle gunner, mobile 
 scout, hit and run, gunship pilot, fighter pilot, dropship pilot, mech pilot, bomber...
  Then you can go solo, join a squad/platoon (or outfit guild) or just follow the empire zerg across 
 open ground, over hills, through trees, over bridges, down coridoors, up staircases, in store rooms, 
 on rooftops...
  
  Imagine any kind of first person shooter scenario and Planetside will have it in some form if not 
 better. They've added so much content, and they still are adding more. And because there are no 
 NPCs or pre-determined numbering factors, it never gets old with different enemies every day. It's 
 also free until BR6 now.
  
  In the end this is just a war game, and while it is of sci-fi breeding, it's more realistic than 
 anything else out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Solaris222002
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 28, 2006 4:26 pm PT
Review:  PlanetSide is so addicting, I have spent so many hours trying to level my character instead of 
 doing school work. It takes a while to learn everything there is to know about it but once you 
 have everything down its very easy to get into battle and start killing people. There are 3 empires 
 to choose from with there own distinct characteristics, Terran Republic, New Conglomerate and Vanu 
 Sovereignty. I cant tell you everything this game has to offer but if you liike Tribes, this is 
 Tribes on steroids with ninjas throwing flaming monkeys. All I can tell you is you'll love this 
 game if you take the time and join a good outfit (PlanetSides guilds) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Frunku
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 28, 2006 7:32 pm PT
Review:  When you get good at this game, it cannot be compared to any other. It combines FPS gameplay with 
 RPG elements which provides more tangible and long-term goals than just winning a BF2 round.
  
  The learning curve is steep as you will be facing only players, most of which are veterans. 
 What you will find interesting is that character level isn't the determining factor in combat, 
 player skill is. As you get better, you will become hopelessly addicted and you will start to be 
 able to beat even higher level players in better gear.
  
  Gameplay and replay value are perfect. Graphics are dated but you still need a fairly good computer 
 because of the scale. Sound is great.
  
  Go pick it up right now for free at www. planetside. com, it's free up to br6 for 12 months. It's 
 really not worth skipping. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Greatwasabi
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 5, 2006 7:24 pm PT
Review:  Population problems only real flaw in this game!! Give it a chance! Join the reserves, do a ten 
 day trial, something!!
  
  Gameplay 9/10::
  Different approach from what I can tell. Everything seems very very balanced and forces you to 
 use strategy with your other team mates. MAX armor was really cool, new BFR additions kick *ss 
 also (Huuge robots that walk around and wreak havok if used properly) Again though it shows how 
 it's balanced, if the driver is being stupid and throwing himself into on coming fire a well trained 
 squad of footsoldiers can bring him down with the appropriate weapons. The game is a little hard 
 to aim though, cone effect can sometimes be frusturating but thats okay, you get used to if after 
 a while.
  
  Graphics 8/10::
  Nothing to gawk at, seem a little dated by now but if you can play it on the highest settings it 
 looks pretty good. Explosions of vehicles etc. look very fake though.. but that isnt a huge huge 
 problem.
  
  Sound 7/10::
  Soundtrack is good but everything else is a little blah. Guns dont sound that amazing, neither 
 do explosions or anything else. Could have been more inspired but doesnt really detract from the 
 gaming experience like a Single Player Fps would.
  
  Value 10/10::
  Wow.. you get this game and you WILL lose alot of sleep. You die pretty quickly but get back into 
 the action very fast also so youre always on your toes. Sieging bases can take up to two or three 
 hours sometimes. It is a pay per month game though so if you slack off and dont play for a few 
 weeks you will feel pretty bad about yourself.
  
  9.1- Awesome.. just give it a chance, if you love it you will not be able to go on without it. 
 Population problems arent really huge, a few thousand people still play but sometimes battles are 
 hard to find. Get it, NOW.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zlinko
Rating: 7.9
Date: Feb 22, 2006 8:55 am PT
Review:  So lets start with the good. I have played PlanetSide off and on for a while now and what always 
 gets me coming back are the PVP battles. There Great! 100's of people battling on an island for 
 bases. You not only have to fight your way thru the massive amounts of people but you have to hold 
 a base for a certain amount of time to over take it. One thing that I recommend is that you get 
 with some type of guild. This brings the game to a whole new level. You become a part in an important 
 team with a single mission. Each person has there role and is needed. Also I would get on TeamSpeak.. 
 this is a must have... it is very diffcult to be shooting at people and then try to type "HELP!" 
 or "Theres someone behind you!". 
  
  Ok so now the bad. There are tons of choices in the game. Lots of equipment, classes, lots of vehicles 
 which can lead to problems. If your going to go solo how do you pick what to be? Its diffcult, 
 there may be one attack and people really need repairers or even hackers but no one has it. All 
 this leads up to that PlanetSide is a player guild game. You have to team if you plan to be successful 
 in the game, and even get the most enjoyment out of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: geldonyetich
Rating: 7.3
Date: Feb 16, 2006 11:48 am PT
Review:  Planetside was released May of 2003 as the first massively multiplayer first person shooter. Along 
 these lines, there are few other games that even come close. Huxley is long from release, and games 
 such as Endless Ages and Gun Online are something else entirely.
  
  The overall flow of Planetside is simple. Choose one of three factions and join them in battle, 
 overpowering and capturing facilities from other factions in first person shooter combat. The execution 
 is the complicated part. Planetside is a game of combined arms strategy, and only the faction that 
 employs the right mixture of vehicles and infantry will have a chance at success. Of course, numbers 
 also play a major role in deciding victory, as is the case in any unrestricted online PvP environment.
 
  
  Planetside is fun on the very individual level, as a first person shooter should be. After choosing 
 your certifications, you are given access to a wide variety of weapons and vehicles. Then it's 
 just a matter of suiting up and blasting the bad guys. Each weapon has a varying amount of accuracy, 
 and Planetside uses a Cone of Fire (CoF) system that determines your likelihood that you'll hit 
 what you're aiming at. The CoF has been scaled back a bit from release, so in general the odds 
 of your hitting are more up to you (the player) rather than the cone of fire. Still, I think the 
 CoF makes things interesting. Appropriately certified characters are able to heal themselves between 
 fights, although this renders them vulnerable to an ambush. Lone guns are generally taken down 
 in short order, and those who take the time to organize their attacks are rewarded with greater 
 success.
  
  My main gripe against Planetside is that the rate of change has been abysmal. It has changed, as 
 any massively multiplayer subscription-based game should, but not nearly often enough to justify 
 $15/mo. In the nearly three years the game has been released, there's only been a about half-dozen 
 new vehicles and four new weapons added. There has been some enriching in the gameplay in that 
 capitols (bases that require bases around them be taken in order for them to become vulnerable) 
 and capture the flag-like capturing has been added. Aside from that, however, there's only been 
 hundreds of nearly imperceivable changes. I'm ticked that there hasn't been a single combat-engineer 
 toy added since beta. Medics have been left equally neglected, with only a map indicator for downed 
 faction members. They've even dumbed down the game a bit from its roots, by reducing the size of 
 the Cone of Fire to the point where effective accuracy at comparatively obscene ranges has long 
 been possible and using cover nearly useless compared to the levels back in beta. They've even 
 largely ditched the idea of armor-piercing ammunition to the point where few both to carry it anymore. 
 Bah!
  
  Regardless of this veteran player's complaints, Planetside is a genuinely entertaining experience. 
 Everybody should try it out at least once, and in a little while Sony Online Entertainment is going 
 to give everybody that chance. They're working on a "Fodderside" project where anybody can download 
 a client and play up to Battle Rank 6 for free for a year. Also, they've announced they're going 
 to implement a number of cool changes that may actually include more engineer toys, MAX armor variants, 
 and more. Perhaps it's too early to write Planetside off entirely, it may yet have a future as 
 worthy as the fun it can generate. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: C0deZer0
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 9, 2006 9:39 am PT
Review:  In 2003 Sony released this ambitious MMO that puts you in the thick of futuristic warfare. Planetside 
 puts a fully functional FPS game that has a lot of elements of an RPG, and surprisingly enough 
 manages to pull it off well. The objective is a simple one, total global domination. Choose from 
 three different factions that have their own arsenal of weaponry, and head into the battle.
  
  Getting into Planetside is extremely simple. Starting out, you will get to choose three factions, 
 the Vanu Sovereignty, Terran Republic, and New Conglomerate. Each faction has a wide variety of 
 weapons at your disposal. After you have chosen your faction, you will be able to create your character, 
 which is rather plain and simple, you just pick a face and a name and your good to go. Once you 
 are in the game, you will start out at your faction's home island, and will have the choice to 
 take some training or jump right into battle by catching a drop ship. The game has an instant action 
 option as the name says, will drop you into the heart of combat. When you start you will have the 
 option to only your your starting battle rifle, and will need to earn what the game calls battle 
 ranks. You can achieve this buy doing things such as killing enemies, repairing items, hacking 
 terminals and so on. As you do this, you will also get Certification points. These points are used 
 to buy the ability to use new weapons, armor and vehicles. One of the great things about PS, is 
 the fact that you will want to look at your points and strategically pick out your certifications 
 for what you are good at. If you are good at sneaking, you can buy a suit that will let you cloak, 
 but keep light weapons on you. If you like to use brute force you can buy what is called the MAX 
 armor, and you are pretty much a walking tank. You can be a hacker and sneak into an enemy complex 
 and try to take it over. There are many roles to play, and each has a certain fun factor to it. 
 Planetside consists of nothing but actual players, so any person you see (excluding the dummy characters 
 in training) are actual players. When you play, you are in a full war and with how many vehicles 
 and weapons there are, it truly feels like it. Most of the vehicles will vary from chaingun mounted 
 ATVs to huge transports. Most of the vehicles will require more than one person, one person as 
 the driver and others as gunners. At times when defending a base or attacking it, there can be 
 a lot going on all at once and can bog down your system, but if you have a high end system, shouldn't 
 be much of a problem. One nice little feature to the game is a penalty if you shoot people on your 
 team. Any team killer out there will end up with Grieve points, which will hurt your development 
 in the long run. While this is a nice feature, it can get a little bothersome when there are a 
 group of people who get in your way while you are gunning down an enemy, you will gain some of 
 those points.
  
  Everything is layed out to be user friendly, and the HUD is in fact very easy to use and utilize. 
 A lot of games use a very cumbersome HUD that requires a lot of use of the mouse pointer during 
 combat, PS is not one of those games. Getting to where you need to go is very simplistic, and can 
 be all accessed by a convenient map. You will have 2 different ways of getting to your goal area... 
 First off is by using the dropship, or by huge warpgates. When viewing the map, you will be shown 
 by colors what islands are your faction's, and which aren't. You can easily find a battle on the 
 map by a blinking explosion mark, so finding some combat is never hard. The graphics in the game 
 a dated, and that is to be expected seeing as the game is 3 years old. The characters animate like 
 running soldiers, and you will see planes fly overhead and tank turrets move like they are supposed 
 to. As a FPSMMO game, the graphics could have been a lot worse, and are rather good for a game 
 like this. 
  
  In Planetside, you will be treated to a variety of rich sounds and orchestrated music. Every sound 
 that is needed to make this game that much more intense is there, and loud. There are a medley 
 of gunshots and explosions that are constantly happening that will make you that much more tense. 
 You will hear tanks roll by, bullets whiz past, teammates yelling, and planes screech overhead. 
 This is just the type of game that you want full surround sound for, not to mention LOUD! The music 
 surprisingly fits the game really well. All the music in PS is all orchestra. When hitting a new 
 island you will be treated to some music that makes things feel a little eery, and almost makes 
 you feel on edge and want to look around every tree to make sure you aren't about to be sniped.
 
  
  There is a lot to draw a person to Planetside. This is one of the biggest, most intense MMOs out 
 there. While the battles are big and loud, eventually the battles start to feel repetitive and 
 you will start to Gage if you are going to win a battle or not early on in that fight. For $20 
 the game is a good bargain though. When you buy the game you are given a month free, so in reality 
 you are buying the game for $5. My recommendation is to give this game a try. It is a lot of fun 
 and gives you a true challenge, while the new lasts. And even though the game eventually starts 
 to go stale, you might just find that you go back to it a few months later. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DiabeticDude
Rating: 8.1
Date: Dec 15, 2005 7:21 am PT
Review:  Planetside is too date the only massively multiplayer first person shooter, or MMOFPS for short 
 (gotta love these abbreviations eh?) . The game is based around a complex storyline that I never 
 truely understood, as it involves a complex time and space 'bending'. Basically the storyline consists 
 of three powerful human factions fighting over the various planets in the Auraxis system. Then 
 again, who cares about the games storyline? I mean, this game is about massively multiplayer war, 
 we don't need no god damned story! 
  
  At the games start the player must select a name and gender for his/her character and then choose 
 from one of three factions (the Terran Republic, New Conglomerate, or Vanu Sovereignty) . Once the 
 player has created their character they are then dropped into the 'Sanctuary', the home planet 
 of their chosen empire. From here the player can participate in virtual reality training, select 
 'certifications' (the clearance to use certain weapons and vehicles) , and communicate with fellow 
 soldiers. The Sanctuary is where most attacks upon a planet start and so it is often common to 
 see masses of people in H. A. R. T (high altitude re-entry transport) buildings, awaiting the 'go 
 code' from a commander to begin an invasion. This leads me onto the whole point of Planetside: 
 complete online warfare. Planetside is all about fighting alongside your 'buddies' in an attempt 
 to conquer territory (military bases) for your empire, this game truely is 'massively multiplayer' 
 with every single character under the control of a human, no AI in sight. This lack of AI also 
 means that empires are led not by some nameless computer, but by intelligent (well, semi intelligent) 
 human commanders. No order you receive will ever be from a computer, everything in this game is 
 player controlled. Planetside's game engine whilst not great makes it more than possible for fights 
 over a certain planet to be more than three hundred soldiers per side, which as you can imagine, 
 leads to some AMAZING battles. 
  
  The atmosphere in Planetside is simply astounding, I mean, no one can deny that their first full 
 scale battle in Planetside doesn't make them exclaim Woh! rather loudly (I know I did!) . Tanks 
 rumble across the battlefield, whilst infantry surge forward guns 'ablaze, all the whilst aircraft 
 fill the skies with their roaring engines and deadly bullets. Sadly Planetside is not the prettiest 
 game out there, sure the graphics are good enough, but no where near Half Life 2 or Doom 3 standards 
 which is a shame, as breathtaking graphics would have made this game nigh on unbeatable. Another 
 sad thing is that the developers of the game (SOE) feel the need to constantly release poor and 
 unbalancing new content, such as the game ruining Battle Frame Robotics (imagine a giant jumping 
 robot with the power of a tank and the nimbleness of a dancer) and 'health incentives' (bonuses 
 that grant the empire with the fewest number of troops a health boost to allow them to take that 
 little bit extra damage) . Luckily though not even Sony Online Entertainment can ruin a game as 
 good as this and they do occasionally release new content that people like (shocking isn't it!) . 
 
  
  Planetside truely does portray what war could be like in the not so distant future with its numerous 
 tactics such as 'gen dropping' (the act of destroying a base generator to disable the automated 
 turrets, lighting, medical facilities, etc.) , co-ordinated massive 'blitzkrieg' (lightning war) 
 attacks and rapid troop deployment via land, air and space! The only limiting factor in your empires 
 success is tactics (or lack of) . 
  
  I strongly advise any first person shooter fans or 'arm chair generals' out there to buy this game 
 and become yet another part of the great Planetside war machine! Also, if you don't fancy shelling 
 out the money for the game then their is soon to be a 'basic' version of the game that will be 
 downloadable for free from: www. planetside. com, and will allow players to participate in the war, 
 just with a limit on the type of weapons and vehicles they can utilize (and the inability to be 
 promoted to 'commander' status) . Get fighting soldier! For land, for power, for ever!
  
  - Diabetic Dude of the New Conglomerate signing off. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheSniperSteve
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 24, 2005 8:31 pm PT
Review:  PlanetSide is a MMOFPS, one of the first of **** kind and by far the best.
  
  Planetside has the winning combination of massive battles, hard core action, strategy, teamwork, 
 and the best character persistancy of any other FPS developed and published by Soney Online Entertainment.
 
  
  PlanetSide takes place on the world of Auraxis where three empires duke it our for the control 
 of large land masses called continents. (To give you an idea of the scale of these Continents, 
 it would take 15-20 minuites to walk from one end to another on some of the larget ones.) The three 
 empires, The VS, NC, and TR all have unique empire specific weapons and vehicles. The VS weaponry 
 uses laser and electic orbs, The NC weapons pack the most per per punch, but limited range. The 
 TR weapons are fast firing full auto machine guns. In adition to the empire specific weaponry there 
 is also common pool weaponry wich any empire can use. There are different classes of armor you 
 can use, each having more invintory room and armor, but reducing the movement speed. The heaviest 
 armor is called MAX armor which has guns mounted on it for AA, AV, and AI. All of them empire specific. 
 
  
  To give you a quick taste of the vehicles available.
  ATV: Fast transportation, with 3 models to chose from. One fitted with a machine gun, another with 
 a rocket launcher, and another one that has claking abilities.
  Lightning: Basic tank with light armor, light weaonry and only room for the driver.
  Mossie: 
 Light scout aircraft, fited with radar and machine gun.
  Reaver: Assault Aircraft, fitted with rockets and machine guns.
  Ground Transport: There are 
 2 basic ground transport vehicles, One fited with machine guns holding 5 passangers, another larger 
 one fited with light tank cannons holding 8 passanges, the driver, and 2 MAX's In addition to the 
 2 common pool transport vehicles there is a varient for each empire.
  Main Battle Tank: Each empire has thir own MBT which is the backbone of the Armor. Carring 1 driver 
 and up to 2 gunners these are very deadly.
  BFR: The recent addition to PlanatSide has caused some conterversy among PS players, but the BFR 
 now finds its place in the battlefield as the heaviest armor unit, packing the most firepower, 
 and again is empire specific.
  Air Support: Air Support include a Vehicle Transport Aircraft, A troop transport, and a bomber.
 
  Ground Suppot: Ground Support Includes a Teleportation Device, and a Mobile Spawn Point Vehicle. 
 
  
  PlanetSide focuses on team play much more than other games. Being a new player you won't get very 
 far without your squad. You start off with around 7 cert points and battle rank 1. Vising the in 
 game virtual training areas and doing the training missions can get you to battle rank 4. This 
 gives you enough certs to learn the certifications you will need to fight among the ever incresing 
 population of very skilled veteren players. You will spend your certifications on weapons, vehicels, 
 armor, and support equiptment. Once you spend your certs on that item, you will have access to 
 it forever, or untill you unlearn it and try something new. 
  
  One of the key elements to this game is the Outfits, (AKA Clans/Guilds) The game has support for 
 in game outfits, somewhat like World of Warcraft. Being its on a persistant word, and the 3 servers 
 can each hold a large number of people this aproach is possible. Once you start playing planetside 
 join a squad, and ask around for a good outfit. Most outfits are willing to train new members, 
 so it should be easy to find one. Once in an outfit you will start playing planetside the way its 
 ment to be played. When looking for an outfit, choose it carefully, many are no good. Some good 
 signs is: A website, Active forums, Active players, and the use of teamspeak or ventrillo. Outfits 
 will sometimes ally with outher outfits and join an out of game alliance with large voice chat 
 servers for coordination between the outfits.
  
  Once you advance through the ranks you may want to considder learning some support equiptment such 
 as Medic, Engeneer, or Hacker.
  To each role there are 2 levels, basic and advanced. 
  Basic med gives you the ability to heal yourself and other friendly troops, advanced gives you 
 the ability to revive friendly troops. And simmilar benefits for the Hacker and Engeneer.
  
  Unlike Other games like BF2 you can preform all 3 roles if you are willing to spend your precious 
 certifications on it. You can also customize your inventory to have whatever you want in it. For 
 example my certifications include Advanced Medic, Engeneer, Heavy Assault, Renforced Armor, Special 
 Assault, And Air Cavalry. My squad members always know im there for them when they are wounded 
 or near death, and i know they are there for me when enemy armor comes, or we need to roll ground 
 vehicles. 
  
  The Servers are company owned, which means they are just about always up, and players hacking is 
 not a problem. The servers are seperate from eachother, meaning of you make a character on Emerald, 
 you cant go and use him on Werner. Each player has a sort of attachment to their server and empire. 
 Playing day and night on such a massive scale, its easy to forget that you really do have a life 
 other than planetside. 
  
  The players in planetside range from the uncommen very unskilled to the more commen ub3r 1773 pwnz0rz 
 players who are at the highest rank and will easily own you when you first log in. 
  
  Lag is an issue, but with the Client side hit detection, unless you have 300+ your not going to 
 have much of a problem. There are some players that intentionaly make themsleves lag to increase 
 thier random movements which in known as warping. 
  
  The Graphics are decent. For a game that is no older the graphics are great. However they do not 
 compare to BF2, FEAR, Doom3 or Quake4. Many users are forced to turn their graphics settings on 
 low or medium low as PlanetSide is a system hog. I reccomend no less than 2.8 P4 1 GIG of ram, 
 and a AGP 8X video card with 128+ DDR memory. DSL or Cable is also a must. 
  
  Once you really get intot he game there will be people complaining about this empire being too 
 easy, and that empire weapon is bad, etc.. this does make it less enjoyable while playing, and 
 has made me log off the game for a few minuites with a burning hatred towards my enemies. The quick 
 rule of thumb is that if you have a poor system play VS/NC as they seem easier, and it will help 
 balance out the fact that your FPS stinks. If you have a decent PC and want to play hard core join 
 the TR, where its harder, and without your squad you arnt living long unless you very skilled. 
 The rest of the gameplay is balenced perfectly, with the great teamplay and outfit organization, 
 and battles that blow away anything on the market, and even in development its really a sight to 
 behold. With a maximum of 400 players fighting over a base it can be very intense and a littile 
 laggy. if your do get lag, there are always smaller battles that are just as important, or even 
 more important than the large ones. Whatever your taste, there will be a battle to fit it.
  
  The sound effects are good, but like the Graphics they dont compare to the new games. The music 
 is also very good, but can slow down preformance, and many players turn it off.
  
  The bigest downfall of this game in my opinion is the steep monthly fee. For somone who has bought 
 the game, and the expansion pack, and the $13 a month montly fee for over a year, i can tell you, 
 it adds up. Unlike most FPS games where you buy the game then forget about it, every month you 
 have to pay your cash. However they do continue to develop the game, so its not all to waste. But 
 to the normal FPS player, this makes the game a no buyer. However there are 7-10-30 day trials 
 you can get, and after giving that a try chances are you will be hooked on it. 
  
  Overall I rate the game 9.1 for its unique gameplay, its massive battles, wonderfull teamwork elemnts, 
 and being downright good fun. Its graphics and sound take a back seat, where the value doesnt appear 
 to be good to a onlooker, but once you like the game your willing to pay it. 
  
  I rated the dificulty hard due to the ammount of veteren players that know the game inside out, 
 but if you stick with your squad you can make out. 
  The learning curve should read 'never ending'. After playing over a year im still far from the 
 best, and being totaly PvP you never know what the eney will think up next. learning the basic 
 parts of the game will take you 4-10+ hours depending on whether you join an Outfit, and after 
 months of playing you will still attend your outfits traning operations and sit there saying. "I 
 never knew that." 
  personally i have spent a few thousand hours playing PlanetSide, and its all been well worth it. 
 
  Being a totaly PvP online game the Classification is obviously a Great Multiplayer. 
  
  -TheSniperSteve
  The Black Widow Company TR Emerald
  
  Here is some extra information that 
 you may find usefull.
  
  
  
  PlanetSide 7 day Trial
  
  The 7 day free trial has been opened up again for anyone who 
 wants to sample the game, or if you're an ex player and want to see the changes that have been 
 made. You will need to make a new SOE station name - you cant use this offer with old characters 
 if you've played PlanetSide before.
  
  What's PlanetSide? Watch this video: http://www. marcopolo. me. uk/PSMovies/PS_AD_LARGE. wmv.
  
 
  Next, get hold of a free 7 day trial CD key from: http://cmt. ubisoft. fr/planetside_pcgamer/.
 
  
  And a complete download (1.6gb!!) using this installer: http://www. marcopolo. me. uk/psinstall. exe. 
 
  
  You'll find an great FAQ about this trial and PlanetSide here: http://www. marcopolo. me. uk/PSFAQ. html.
 
  
  PlanetSide seems to have turned a corner over the past few months - it's become a whole lot of 
 fun again!
  
  Enjoy.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: AtomicEdge
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 21, 2005 12:04 pm PT
Review:  I have only recently discovered Planetside, my computer only got up to speed in the past few months. 
 What a ride it is, its like an ongoing never ending, huge player counted deathmatch with capture 
 the flag and territories combined.
  
  You choose one of three empires and attempt to lead them to victory by capturing all the continents, 
 which may sound easy, but when you and a hundred allies walk into a base defended by a hundred 
 and fifty enemies, you realise what a huge task faces you.
  
  You can choose to be anything. A medic, a driver, a pilot, a heavy weapons expert, a sniper or 
 any other army type you can think of. Its all about teamplay, you mash in by yourself, your going 
 to hit the ground. But if you join a squad with a sniper covering you, a medic healing you, an 
 engineer fixing your armor and a you covering a hacker while he breaks into the bases command console, 
 you can be truly efficient.
  
  I say give it a go, it wont be to everyone's taste, but its only $20 to download (and it comes 
 with a months play) and its also covered by SoE's all covering gamer pass. If you have dreamed 
 of true war in a computer game, this is the place to be.
  
  Long live the Vanu. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sakko
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jun 7, 2005 4:58 pm PT
Review:  Okay one thing you should know about Planetside. It contains some of the largest battles known 
 to any computing platform ever. High tech weapons and vehicles duke it out against one another 
 in sometimes absolutely horrific battles against one another, numbering sometimes 100+ per side. 
 If this at all sounds intriguing to you, you owe it to yourself to try planetside at least once. 
 Borrow it from a friend, get in on their free deal promotions, something. But check it out, you 
 just might get hooked.
  
  With that out of the way, one word that sums up Planetside quite well is "ambition". Planetside 
 to me, is a very ambitious game. They have done something noone has ever done and that is make 
 an MMO First Person Shooter that contains HUGE amounts of players all duking it out.
  
  As a result, there is a proportionate amount of lag, but it is controlled in a such a way, that 
 you kind of adapt to it. An example:
  
  Let's say you're running around a battlefield with a bunch of other players and you find a tower 
 that is enemy and move in with your buddies to take it over for your side. You round a corner and 
 see some bad guys, who begin to open fire on you. You jump back behind the corner for some cover 
 but for the next second or so you are still taking damage from their fire. Why is this? Lag my 
 friend, lag.
  
  Instead of having chopping and stuttering type lag, you have this persistent 1000 or so ping overhead 
 that is always affecting you. This sounds absolutely horrible, but it is quite preferrable and 
 for most circumstances does not affect you that much. In fact you find your self sort of adapting 
 your play to it in one way or another. I will give a couple examples:
  
  You are flying an aircraft doing missile runs on a heavily defended base. There are multiple lock 
 on style weapons aiming at you as you begin your run. One might think that the moment you hear 
 the lock on signal, they have just acquired you and are about to fire. In actuality they have already 
 fired and the projectile is closing in on you already. There are no "one shot one kill" anti air 
 weapons, so it's important to turn away immediately the moment you hear the lock signal and afterburn 
 out of there.
  
  From the other perspective you might be in a tower as a trooper, standing behind a corner, with 
 third person view activated so you can see around that corner. You see someone coming your way 
 so you pop around the corner and open fire. This person won't see you for about a full second, 
 but you have already begun to open fire.
  
  Planetside calculates hits based on the client, so you are in effect hitting him for a moment before 
 he can see you.
  
  I didn't mean to spend so much time talking about lag properties but it is important to know what 
 you're getting into. With that aside Planetside is a pretty fun game. You've got 3 factions battling 
 for territory constantly. There is usually a main hotspot or "zerg" as it's called by players which 
 you will find the big battles at, and also some small satellite battles as the factions begin to 
 try to take over continents completely owned by another side.
  
  Each faction has it's own specific weaponry and vehicles as well as a common pool category which 
 everyone has access to. There's something for everyone from the rate-of-fire centric projectile 
 weapons of the Terran Republic to the quick hitting energy technologies of the Vanu Sovereignity.
 
  
  Ultimately though, Planetside is a numbers game. It's a factor of having an FPS with so many people 
 in it. If it's 10 vs. 20, the larger side is going to win every time. It's just a simple fact. 
 You can have lots of fun in the mean time killing as many people as you can. But how much fun? 
 I've had some people complain that it's just the same thing over and over again. I've had some 
 people praise how it's the only truly MMO FPS, and you really can't get anything like it anywhere 
 else.
  
  Let's go over the vitals:
  
  Gameplay - PS is very fun and addictive, with huge continents to wage war over.
  
  Graphics 
 - Very nice. Seeing a 100+ battle really makes you say WOW!
  
  Sound - Not bad, not stellar. Some of the music is cool, some terribly bad.
  
  Value - You 
 get good value with PS, depending on if it's your bag or not. You won't know until you try but 
 they have alot of free deals to try out the game all the time, which is nice.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt - I like PS. I always play a couple months then take a break for some other games, 
 coming back to play another month or so. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PNXPNX
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 1, 2005 9:08 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the most intense games ive played in a while. Good graphics, lots of actions and 
 a lot of weapons & vehicles to choose from. 3 different empires gives it more fighting than two 
 teams always fighting each other on the same map, but in this game you can fight one or two empires 
 on the same map or fight one empire at a time. If your looking for an intense, lots of actions, 
 coordinated attacks, strategy, teamwork and go anywhere freely. The game is updated frequently 
 and there is a lot of different things to do in this game such as, finding monoliths, joining an 
 outfit and making ANT runs & Drop ship drops on bases. Give this game a try you wont be disappointed.. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: L33tBudDha
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 23, 2006 3:51 pm PT
Review:  The good:
  
  1) Challenge: Since the game is based souly on player vs. player combat with not even so much as 
 one NPC in the game the challenge is of a very high and adaptive level. The players are constantly 
 changing their strategies when new features are added to the game and you can clearly see the impacts 
 of these strategic modifications. With the global map being just the right size Planetside rates 
 among the best games for challenge.
  
  2) Gameplay: You will find Planetside easy to pick up and survive but offers a very difficult challenge 
 when you try to become a master at this game. Planetside tries to provide enjoyment for both the 
 soloist and the team player but make no mistake about it Planetside is designed for team oriented 
 gameplay. Also, Planetside is not just built for team play it's built for teams (squads) working 
 with other teams (forming a platoon) who in turn are working with those teams of teams (the empire 
 as a whole) . Also like most MMO's there are outfits (guilds) that one can join and to really enjoy 
 Planetside they should join.
  
  3) Lack of grind: This is possibly the one reason why Planetside contiunues to thrive. The game 
 gives you "certification points" that you use to purchase skills such as different weapon types, 
 vehicles, support certs like medical or engineering, so on and so on. You are fully capable of 
 involving yourself in the greatest battles Planetside offers even as a new player. The XP you gain 
 allows you to gain more cert points but they only make you a more versitle player not a better 
 one or give you the ability to be involved. So there's no "XPing" in Planetside.
  
  4) Dev team: Planetside is constantly updated and problems addressed. Though Planetside does not 
 have a history of being the most problem free MMO it certainly has player involvement in the bug 
 identification and many of the ideas that are now in the game have had strong player input associated 
 with them. The dev team responds to the reaction players have to their updates. This is a good 
 thing.
  
  5) Combat: The combat is high-end. If you are a FPS fan and you also enjoy the perminant world 
 characteristics of an MMO Planetside is for you. I am a member of a very prominant Outfit in Planetside 
 and gaming with them is beyond anything I have experienced before in an MMO. The variety of weapons 
 and vehicles is just impressive. What's better is that it's always growing. You have very specific 
 targets and objectives in the game if you are trying to control a continent. Think Tribes meets 
 Joint Ops and then throw that into an MMO. Minus the jetpacks.
  
  6) Free trial offers: SOE is constantly offering free 7 day trials of Planetside. Download their 
 software and play for free. Can't go wrong here!
  
  The bad:
  
  1) The graphics are not elite by any means. The graphics are not the attraction to Planetside nor 
 is it marketed as such so it's not a knock on the game. The graphics are late 90's quality.
  
  2) Cost: The cost of Planetside is higher than I think it should be. Guild Wars have proven 
 that the MMO's that charge $10+ a month are unjustifiably making too high a profit off it's players.
 
  
  3) Performance: Planetside is a memory hog and it's not understandable. Even running a high-end 
 machine you can find yourself seeing a 20% or more drop in FPS than from other online games you 
 have played and the reason can only be linked to the host. With the graphics not being among todays 
 best it doesn't set right with this gamer that the game demands today's best hardware to run very 
 well. Don't get me wrong you can still play Planetside with even as little as nVidia TNT2 64mb 
 but to see Planetside at its best which isn't all that impressive you will need at least a gig 
 of ram running a nVidia 6800 or better.
  
  The Ugly:
  
  1) The only ugly moment in Planetside came with it's release of Core Combat. This expansion was 
 the worst thing to hit the MMO world as far as percormance since SOE released Luclin for EQ. Remember 
 Luclin, kiddies? If you had an AMD I bet you do! Thankfully I run Intel but none-the-less that 
 was horrid and so was Core Combat. However, Core Combat is a different review! Bwa ha!
  
  Overall:
  
  Folks, I love FPS like Tribes, Joint-Ops, CS, MOHAA, Unereal Tourney... and I like 
 to group up with the same players but I also love MMO's like EQ, UO, and GW. Combine some of the 
 best elements of these two genres and you get Planetside. I really don't have to say more than 
 that. Planetside simply is a MUST PLAY for any gamer of either/both of these genres. There's no 
 excuse not to try it since they offer free trials! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chaoseternite
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 22, 2005 8:29 am PT
Review:  OMG - Planetside is by far the BEST gaming experience I have enjoyed in my 31 years of gaming. 
 You will become immersed in the never ending struggle in the Galaxy of Auraxis. The storyline even 
 has some bizzar twists in that the Galaxy has a hidden ancient alien "concienseness". Planetside 
 is a dream come true for anyone who has ever wanted to play a largescale futuristic war. Pick your 
 empire and prepare for war. Many, many battles await.
  
  Vehicles, guns, Air war - it's got it all!! You you will enjoy playing a variety of playstyles 
 as they all come together in Planetside. 2 years of play here and still learning something new 
 everyday!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Unreal-
Rating: 7.8
Date: Feb 6, 2005 10:40 am PT
Review:  "For land. For power. Forever". The moto of Planetside is a good description of both the story 
 and the core gameplay of one the very first MMOFPS games ever created.
  As you may already know, 'MMO' stands for 'Massively Multiplayer Online'. There are quite a lot 
 of MMORPG's out today, but Planetside brought the MMO game to the thrill and adrenaline pumping 
 action of the FPS genre.
  The game is completely player versus player (PVP) and there is absolutely no AI soldiers in the 
 game. There is three empires or armies, each boasting unique and powerful weapons. The Vanu Sovereignty 
 (the purple colored army) are the more technologically advanced team. The New Conglomerate are 
 the blue colored team who make use of slow, but powerful weaponry. And finally, the Terran Republic. 
 These are the red team and they fight using high rate of fire weaponry.
  
  Gameplay
  As mentioned above, Planetside's gameplay is the seemingly never ending fight between players of 
 each faction. Each team has a 'Sanctuary', which is their own island which cannot be entered or 
 assaulted by any enemy. The rest of the world (Auraxis) map is made up from several continents. 
 These continents are linked to each other by warpgates which have large force field type domes 
 over them which allow players to move through them. Once these domes are entered however, enemies 
 cannot fire their weapons, and so no fighting can occur.
  The goal of Planetside is simple; to capture as many bases on as many continents as possible. Enemy 
 or nuetral bases are hacked by a single player (ideally with back up) using a hacking tool called 
 an 'REK'. There are several bases dotted around each of the unique continents, each of which give 
 the owning team certain upgrades or access to different technologies. There are medical facilities, 
 technology facilities, dropship facilities and more, although admitedly, they all look alike in 
 design inside and out. Every base is also defended by wall turrets in each corner of it's walls. 
 These turrets can be entered by a player, or if an enemy which is detectable by radar enters the 
 turrets feld of vision, it will auto fire on that enemy.
  All of the continents are pretty well designed, offering some really great battles at times, although 
 these aren't as frequent as we'd have liked. These battles are particularly exciting when enemies 
 find themselves fighting over a bridge with bases or towers at either end. These can be some very 
 strategic battles, where the bridge will become a valuable asset to the team who has managed to 
 push the enemy back from it.
  
  You start of Planetside with some Battle Points which are used to purchase certifications at a 
 CERT terminal in either a medical facility, or a base in your teams sanctuary. You do start off 
 with some basic skills, allowing access to the standard assault rifle, grenades and pistols, but 
 no vehicles. Certifications include heavy assualt, medic, engineer, hacker and infiltration.
  Each teams heavy assault weaponry, anti armour weaponry, heavy tanks and more are different and 
 unique to their empire, we will go into this later. The medic and engineer certs speak for themselves, 
 they allow you to heal yourself and others (provided you carry a medic device) and the engineer 
 can repair vehicles and the armour of you and your comrades. Hacking is another cert in this area, 
 and simply upgrades your hacking speed for hacking bases and towers. You can also take these certs 
 a step further by upgrading them to their advanced counterparts. Advanced meid allows you to revive 
 dead soldiers, combat engineer lets you place small gun turrets, mines and motion detectors, and 
 the adv. hacker lets you not only hack bases faster, but hack enemy equipments/vehicle terminals 
 and their vehicles too.
  
  Each empire has their own set of weapons, as well as the 'Common Pool' weapons which are available 
 to all three teams. The Terran Republic (TR) have the fast firing chaingun and cycler, the New 
 Conglomerate (NC) has the automatic shotgun (devastating at close range) and the gauss rilfe, and 
 the Vanu Sovereignty (VS) have the electric orb shooting lasher and a laser gun called the pulsar.
 
  Heavy tanks are also different for the empires. The TR have a Prowler, the NC a slower moving 
 Vanguard, and the VS have a floating, strafing Magrider.
  You can also get heavy armoured battle suits called 'MAX'. These suits are slightly larger than 
 standard soldiers armour and are slow moving but carry awesome firepower and a lot of armour. They 
 are however weak against anti armour weapons like the VS Lancer, the TR Striker and the NC Pheonix.
 
  There's also several aircraft to pilot, including a fast and light craft with a chaingun, a slower 
 rocket carrying craft, and also a dropship called a 'Galaxy' which can carry one small vehicle 
 and a squad full of people and drop them over a base.
  
  The vehicles handle quite well and all have their own feel to them. ATV's are fast and maneuverable, 
 and the aircraft are great for swooping past enemies and taking them out.
  
  Graphics
  The world of Auraxis is fairly well done, but doesn't offer as much detail as other shooters on 
 the PC. The textures, character models, vehicles, weapons etc all look very detailed, it's just 
 the actual design of the maps that could have been better. Bases also all look the same, and this 
 does make every base you go into seem the same as the last. These are minor niggles though becuase 
 you're constantly on the move accross continents and through bases.
  The continents look unique though, and there are snowy, grassy, swamped and rocky lava continents 
 throughout the world. There is also some quite impressive weather effects which kick in randomly 
 including rain, sandstorms and thunderstorms. These actually do add to the battle very very well, 
 particularly the sandstorms. These can really reduce sight in battles and will effect your gameplay. 
 Thunder crashes are also really loud and look good too.
  Particle effects are good too, especially when you see a Vanu lasher bolt scream past your ear 
 with a bright purple/blue glow and ripping sound.
  All in all, Planetside is a pretty good looking game with some fantastic looking models, it's just 
 the bases could have been a little different from each other.
  
  Sound
  Sound is great in Planetside, and all the weapons sound very heavy and brutal. The Jackhammer shotgun 
 is a good example of this, as it strikes fear in any enemy who hears it blasting through the walls 
 of their base. 
  Vehicles sounds are pretty good, but not as good as the weapon sounds. 
  There are also quite a lot of macro's in the game too for you to use and all sound clear and perfect 
 for taunting your opponents corpse after you pumped him full of lead, or for warning of incomming 
 enemy aircraft. They come in to great use when in need of a medic, or for telling allies (or any 
 enemy that hears you) what your plan is.
  The theme tune to Planetside is also worth a mention, as it sounds quite epic. There is music which 
 kicks in when you are fighting, and music for the various continents too. You can turn these off, 
 which might help you in the game becuase sound in Planetside is crucial.
  
  Controls
  As this is an MMO game, you can expect to have an initially daunting array of keys to swat up. 
 There are a lot, it's true, but they are all layed out well and quite typical for most FPS gamers. 
 You have the standard WASD for movement, F1-F12 for quickslots and the number keys for weapon selection.
 
  All the keys can be configured to your liking, but what you have straight away should please most 
 FPS players.
  
  Conclusion
  Planetside is not for everyone. It also comes with a monthly fee which can be payed by credit card 
 or by a pre-paid gamecard. It is a game that you need to sit down and get stuck into becuase it 
 is a deep game with a lot to learn. If you like the sound of having huge scale battles over land, 
 sea and air all at once and you are able to spend the time to get into the game, then this could 
 be one for you. It also requires a pretty fast PC to run the game, and although they reccomend 
 512mb of RAM, we say 1024mb will help you a lot more. You will also need a fast internet connection 
 becuase this game deals with a lot of players and a lot of action. There's regular auto downloaded 
 patches too, which are needed to play the game and these can be very large in size.
  You can find regular trials on the Planetside website, so you could try the game before you buy 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jmann3001
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 1, 2005 1:41 am PT
Review:  Inovative... right off the bat this game diservs credit for being the first and only game in a 
 genre I hope to see pickup. Its much better and different than games like BF1942, UT2004, etc. U 
 dont choose a map to play on the game is one huge map, where players wage a consistant online war. 
 Anyone who bashes the game obviously doesn't belong to a good outfit b/c unfourchinitly playing 
 with good people is what turns the game from average to superb. It takes a while to get into it 
 but when you do you'll be happy you stuck with it. Another great feature is the online updates. 
 The devs are always adding and improving the game. Like a couple of months ago new giant robots 
 were added to the game. 
  
  The last thing is www. planetsidemovies. com I encourage people to check out this site and if you 
 own the game make your own movies its another exciting fun thing to do with your buddies in the 
 game.
  
  To rap it up beside from the monthly payment (I suggest buying game card.) And the fact you need 
 a very powerful machine to play with no lag PS is an amazing game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spasnof
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 29, 2004 10:14 am PT
Review:  This game can go from great to tedious at times but mostly it seems to stay consistently entertaining. 
 Like most massive online games the community and the people you choose to join largely affect the 
 gameplay experience. Planetside does seem to suffer from the usual crowd of folks who, no matter 
 how much you try, do their own thing. This detracts from the teamplay aspect. For example when 
 you join a squad only to have it break into chaos as soon as you hit the battlefields. But if you 
 do happen to find a good organized squad/outfit to join, then the gameplay experience is unmatched. 
 With people taking point on entrances and covering you with everything from air support to mobile 
 artillery.
  
  The sheer size and complexity of the game is what I appreciate most. It is what sets this game 
 apart from its counterparts such as BF1942 or Halo. When playing other multiplayer fps's you just 
 can't help but notice how much smaller they are than what is available in Planetside. In larger 
 battles it can seem overwhelming with the huge amounts of people fighting, while strategy takes 
 a back seat. But in those smaller battles where small groups skirmish for territory, I find the 
 game to be the most satisfying. (personal preference, most people like to find large fights.)
 
  
  The dev's have done a great job at keeping things fresh and new. For example I have played this 
 game from release on and off and in its current build it is unrecognizable from the first. The 
 devs are a bit sluggish with most patches and updates. They listen to community requests and have 
 done a good job of balancing the factions out. (Although higher population counts usually mean 
 victory) Bugs have always seemed to plague this game. Although none I have experienced were particularly 
 game stopping.
  
  Graphics are ok as well as the sound. Im too afraid of boosting my settings for fear of slower 
 fpss. I should have mentioned this game is a hog and requires a beefy system to run it. I have 
 a p4 1.4, ti4200, 1gig ram, and it seems to run fine around middle quality settings.
  
  The game does have one fairly major fault that shows up later in your game experience and that 
 is repetition. There are no real long-term benefits from the bases/towers/whatever you capture. 
 Everything you gain is usually lost in the 24-hour cycles of war. And the levels cap off at 20. 
 For me that does not faze me much but for others it can wear thin after a while. There is an option 
 those of you who wish to take on the challenge of leading others into battle. You can gain command 
 ranks from capturing enemy facilities, which allow you to higher and higher channels of communications 
 and abilities. (Think Orbital Strikes, Global Announcments)
  
  Overall I would say this is a good game to look into if you are in the least bit interested. Its 
 an ambitious project and I cant wait to see what the future of this genre and Planetside will 
 be.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShadowDrop
Rating: 5.8
Date: May 5, 2004 10:57 pm PT
Review:  I liked this game for the most part, but my comp just couldn't handle it (I was well above the 
 minimum specs listed on the box, but I barely made it out of the tutorial before I started experiencing 
 the worst lag imaginable. Other than that it was an ok game (not $50 ok but wth, you win some and 
 you lose some) Oh yeah, it also neglected to tell me that should I forget (or just flat out ignore) 
 to renew my membership... IT DOES IT FOR YOU! That was some money down the drain before I realized 
 what was happening... anyways like I said... an ok game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phishin3321
Rating: 1
Date: Mar 15, 2004 9:50 am PT
Review:  I played this game since it was released 10 months ago. 10 months ago I would have given this game 
 a 10 across the board. It was great despite a few bugs and small imbalances.
  
  Since then, it has evolved into a battle of population. Do not be fooled by the adverti****t of 
 "Squad based strategy" and "Massive scale battles". The battles are won purely by the highest populated 
 empire on the continent.
  
  The developers are still trying to balance weapons that were released when the game was released. 
 This is pathetic to say the least... especially for a game you have to pay a monthly fee to play.
 
  
  Also, if you are still bent on buying it, do not pay attention to the specs on the box. With the 
 minimum requirements, you'll be lucky to log in for more than 10 minutes without your computer 
 completely crashing. With the suggested requirements you'll be lucky to run 15 frames per second 
 in a large fight. You need a top of the line PC to play this game effectively. By top of the line 
 I'm talking 3.0 speed processor, 128 mb video card, and ATLEAST 1 gig of GOOD memory. Even with 
 that (Which is what I run) you'll drop to 30 frames per second at times.
  
  On top of all of this, the developers have no direction. They rely solely on a community made of 
 new players. Every patch takes away motivation to develop skill, and pushes to just "Zerg" (Overpopulate) 
 a battle. It gets very repetitive, and very, very old. EVERY battle will be won by either blowing 
 up spawn tubes or generators. There is no strategy involved.
  
  Many of the weapons are 1 shot kills. Shotguns, tanks, morters... get used to staring at the respawn 
 screen. There are times that you will spend the majority of an hour looking at the map waiting 
 for your respawn timer rather than playing the actual game.
  
  It was a great game a long time ago. Lots of great ideas and a promising future. The lack of confidance 
 from the developers, as well as their lack of direction and motivation have destroyed what this 
 game has become. Stick with the proven greats like BF:1942 and Half Life and wait for the next 
 MMOFPS. 10 months ago I was happy to spend $30 on this game. It has turned into a game that I wouldn't 
 have even looked at, let alone spent money on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gen_Rommel
Rating: 7.2
Date: Dec 18, 2003 7:35 am PT
Review:  Let me start off by saying if you didnt buy this game when it came out your screwed low level people 
 are conquered I remember hearing much about this game and I went and bought it played the tutorial 
 to gain two levels of rank couldnt because it messed up on the last mission and I have over what 
 is required for the game so it was NOT my computer. So I say ok so what it wont matter that much 
 I go to play I cant do crap! I drop right into a hot zone guns flaring lots of enemys to pick from 
 I lay rounds beyond rounds into the person according to my aiming system and the starter weapons 
 blow! I played this game for 3 days got 1 kill and it was because he had low life. I played and 
 played but kept getting killed by people in cloaking devices and Heavy Armor suits there just was 
 no fun in the game because my charecter sucked and I couldnt gain rank because I couldnt kill any 
 one or anything to get my rank up I did energy runs for the base and ranked up once but of course 
 my charecter still blew! This game at the moment is not worth buying not because of the gameplay 
 or the way its setup just because of higher level people youll never enjoy it because youll die 
 every 10 sec in battle. I am not saying anything bad about the game just simply that its too late 
 to buy because of this reason other than that this game is great if you manage to get pass the 
 whole level problem youll be fine. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: russlc
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 15, 2003 6:36 am PT
Review:  I just started playing PS about three weeks ago and it is a marvelous, fantasic game. The fact 
 that you can play for minutes or hours makes it great for people who can't invest tons of time 
 in a MMO. You also do not have to be a first person shooter expert to have fun. It does take sometime 
 to learn. You will die often when you first start out  light reading and squads will fix that. 
 Second, the graphics are great but I had to turn them down to get better performance. Most bugs 
 since launch are gone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tmarkelz
Rating: 9.2
Date: Sep 11, 2003 12:23 pm PT
Review:  Back when I was younger, maybe junior high, I remember sitting around with my computer buddies 
 discussing what we thought would be the ultimate computer game. In our minds it would have to be 
 a persistent 24 hour world where the battle was always raging. You could choose to be anything 
 you wanted... fly aircraft, drive tanks, be a foot soldier, a medic, a transport driver, etc. It 
 would be hundreds of people fighting hundreds of other people from all over the world. That is 
 what PlanetSide is. It is the realization of a childhood dream and my first step into Massive Multiplayer 
 Online First Person Shooters (MMOFPS) . It is, in one word, amazing.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sys14
Rating: 9.8
Date: Aug 19, 2003 9:53 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game, is the type of the game i was dreaming years ago. And, even there are many 
 faults in this game, the great intense gameplay still made this game my favorite! (I haven't played 
 Battlefield 1942 since i bought Planetside :S ) .
  
  First of all, i want to say, there is no game fits everybody. My mom likes play a very interesting 
 ball game. Yes, i think that's the game can almost fits everybody. But planetside is not, this 
 game is only for:
  1. FPS lovers.
  2. People who wants to feel the rear "War" likes.
  3. People can spend time on it.
  
  Many game players ONLY like shot period battle, like CounterStrike, 
 Medal of Honor, they don't even like Battlefield 1942. I think Planetside is not designed for these 
 players. But that doesn't means it's not a great game. In Planetside, there is skirmish, battle, 
 campaign, and WAR! someone wrote in his review: when you climb up onto a mountain, suddenly, you 
 see hundreds of soldiers, tanks, turrets, air crafts. Dense laser beams, rockets, missiles flying, 
 exploding... Yes, this kind of scene made me cry~~ :D
  
  The gameplay of planetside is also wonderful. If you are good at FPS game, you will be very useful 
 in a squad, but there are so much more things need you to do in Planetside than in other FPS game. 
 I like the whole RPG setting of this game, the perfect Certification system, and a lot of different 
 accessories, you need cert and equipment to be a hacker or a engineer. There are a lot of fun to 
 play these roles.
  
  This is a great game, i think all players above battle rank 6 (the level system in planetside) 
 in planetside think the same as me.
  
  Don't use the different expectation to judge this game. Don't be like my mom!
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kaemon
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 12, 2003 9:48 pm PT
Review:  Great FPS! Even Better RPG!!! 
  
  It's a great FPS because you are constantly running and gunning, be it from a hand-held rocket 
 launcher, a fighter jet, or a tank turret. It's also a great RPG because the game design begs for 
 cooperative play. A squad that works together can GREATLY outperform a squad that doesn't. 
  
  Attacking or defending a tower or base requires the combined effort of many different skills 
 - Someone to fly the transport ship, a scout, a sniper, tank and air assault pilots, heavy assualt 
 soldiers (big weapons and high armor) , medics, an engineer to repair vehicles and soldiers' armor, 
 a hacker to get in doors and take control of towers or bases, and the most important role - the 
 squad leader, who organizes his squad consisting of all these roles into a cohesive and effective 
 fighting unit. 
  
  Each role offers a different game experience and each one is a blast to play. Planetside's unique 
 certification system works brilliantly! Players earn points for experience which they use to certify 
 in specific skills, armor, weapons or vehicles. The certs they choose determine the role they'll 
 play. They can change certs (and their role) but not on a whim so players 
  tend to choose a role and get good at it before switching. 
  
  Playing with a good squad leader 
 makes all of the difference in the world between an OK game and a great game. Without a good leader, 
 players play independently and ineffectively. It can be hard to find a good squad each time you 
 log on which is why the game has "outfits", large groups of players that are dedicated to playing 
 together as a team. Outfits typically have experienced squad leaders and players, you are always 
 welcome in their squads and you get to know players by continuously playing with the same people.
 
  
  You can chat to your team by typing but voice chat really brings out the RPG aspect of the game. 
 (The Planetside Voice chat module works pretty well but not everyone can host it. Everyone in our 
 outfit uses TeamSpeak which I highly recommend!!)
  
  You will truly experience the wonder and brilliance of Planetside when you are in a vicious drawn 
 out battle to attack or defend a location and your team is working together and communicating effectively 
 to excecute one strategy after another until victory is achived. 
  
  Planetside is an excellent game that breaks new ground. Excellent, Excellent! Excellent!
  
 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Signal_Jam
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 8, 2003 7:28 am PT
Review:  The Black Hole of gameing? It may never escape the gravity of itself. With no real feeling of victory, 
 and no fulfilling goals, this game fails. You can max out your character fairly rapidly, and it 
 the player often feels cheated. How can a super powerful missle blow up a tank and barely scratch 
 a trooper? Alas, the feeling of superiority an Unreal Tournament Victor feels is no where in sight. 
 The idiotic, self obsessive players don't help either. Where are the Destroyers and submarines? 
 On the bright side, this game may instill a feeling that no other can-the feeling of an individual 
 player deciding the near future for hundreds of other players. As it stands, it's a very solid 
 shooter. With some effort and love from the developers it could be made into the next Half-Life 
 or Doom. I think, (a bit of a stretch here) with the addition of Ocean battles, with Destroyers, 
 Submarines, Space Stations which can decide actual victories if certain peramiters were met, and 
 some more interesting locals, like deep canyons, High Mountains, Airship bases, this game could 
 own. I mean like Eq X 10. Think about it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nortbot
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 1, 2003 6:00 am PT
Review:  Planetside is the Game of the Year. This game is completely addicting and outrageously fun. When 
 you experience your first massive battle of 100 vs. 100 you will realize that your $12.95 for that 
 month was well spent on that battle alone, let alone battles like it for the remainder of the month. 
 If you're not sure about the monthly fee, spend another night searching gamespy for crappy, laggy 
 servers with your favorite FPS, enjoy getting kicked and enduring cheaters of every form. You got 
 all that for free! 
  
  Conversely, login to Planetside, sign in the character you've been building for weeks, if not months, 
 join a stable server supported by a team of the industry's finest developers, and take part in 
 daily battles for bases, towers, or maybe just a bridge. Regardless, you're sure to have a blast. 
 And realize, your monthly fee will help pay for regular server maintenance, bug fixing, and content 
 additions like new battle objectives, new vehicles and new weapons.
  
  I recommend this game to any avid FPS'er who is tired of the same old maps, cheaters, and laggy 
 servers. If you do join, come to the Konried server and fight for the New Conglomerate!
  
  Nortbot [New Conglomerate] Konried 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tyrael
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jun 7, 2003 11:22 pm PT
Review:  This game is great, at first. It's addictive for a while. Then you realize youre playing musical 
 bases, and using the exact same tactics every time you capture a base. This game's engine and potiental 
 is one of the best I have ever seen, but the game ends up falling short of it's potential. The 
 XP system needs to be totally redesigned, and a number of other improvments are critical before 
 buying this game, but hey seeing as how it's an MMOFPS changes happen fast, and by next week it 
 might be worth it. (note this was posted on 6-7-03, so it may be better already) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jake22222007
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jun 7, 2003 4:14 pm PT
Review:  I like first person shooter games and I like role playing games, so great I should like this game, 
 and I did, but please why could not sony try to balance it a little more.
  
  Perhaps for a game like this as well as having servers for a jurisdiction there should be servers 
 for difficulty levels. I love first person shooters, BUT I AM A CASUAL GAME PLAYER AND ONLY PLAY 
 A FEW HOURS EACH WEEK. For many players who would like to have the experience of this game it is 
 a pain just to keep dying all the time at the hands of players who are so obviously so much more 
 advanced. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShadeZ
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 3, 2003 1:41 pm PT
Review:  Planetside is a great game to play if you like team play. It doesn't hold up so well if you go 
 it alone. The graphics are fairly good as can be expected from an MMPOG. The Music get pretty annoying 
 at times, you can't use your own MP3s which is a minor downfall. The controls can be annoying but 
 can be setup though keybindinns eg Counterstrike. 
  
  Its totally pointless really, but is fun so who cares... It reminds me that its like Multiplayer 
 Halo will be. 
  
  In a few months the lag should be lessened with SoE adding more servers. You can't really judge 
 this game since it is an MMPOG, and updates are coming out all the time. 
  
  If you have anything below a top notch computer you'll probaly want to skip this game though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BMWGamer
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 3, 2003 1:31 pm PT
Review:  Planetside is the best Massive Multiplayer Online Game to come out in a long time. The only constant 
 battlefield like Planetside was WWII Online, which was a miserable failure. Planetside has it all. 
 The graphics are great, the gameplay is exellent, and it handles like any typical FPS. Lag is nearly 
 non-existant and teamplay is the order of the day. A lonewolf will get nothing accomplished, you 
 must have a squad to accomplish anything. One thing I was pleasently surprised with was how easy 
 it was to create or join a squad of ten guys and get right into battle relatively quickly. If you 
 broadcast "Im looking for a squad" you will immediately recieve offers from squadleaders wanting 
 to recruit you. You can play the game the way you want to play it. There are so many jobs, everyone 
 will find something they enjoy. 
  
  All I can say is buy planetside you will love it. You will quickly make friends and will take pleasure 
 and pride in advancing your character. Look me up on the server Emerald on the New Conglomerate 
 forces, my name is Deficit, hope to see you on! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Malovech
Rating: 2.3
Date: Jun 3, 2003 8:25 am PT
Review:  What a total pile of dog crap this game is! You might as well play Tribes 2 or Battlefield because 
 they are more fun and don't cost nearly as much. I hate when a company gets this ambitious with 
 a game, then totally screws up the delivery. There is absolutely no real reason to fight in this 
 game, no real consequences to your actions. Yes you can take bases and continents but in the end 
 it effects nothing, causes the other team no real grief and is just another in an endless series 
 of wins and losses that in the grand scheme of the game mean very little. That is just fine for 
 a free multiplayer FPS, but for one in which I am asked to pay $12.95 a month I want a lot frickin' 
 more! 
  
  I want my guild to be able to completely obliterate an installation- blow it to smitherenes, then 
 setup camp and custom build our own installation. Then after that it is up to us to make sure it 
 doesn't get destroyed. Yes I want Planetside crossed with Shadowbane! That is the bar to which 
 MMORPG and massively multiplayer games of any kind should be aspiring too, anything else is a waste 
 of time and energy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VeXeN
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jun 3, 2003 8:21 am PT
Review:  A true score, I have to agree with the gamespot review, at first when I got this game I really 
 did have fun with it. Later on I found some problems I really didn't like for example how the aiming 
 works, this game takes no skill to play. You can't get a head shot or anything like that, if I 
 hit you in the toe it does the same amount of damage as hitting you in the eye.. Lame.. The graphics 
 are pretty good, but really could use some bump mapping and specula lighting. I have a Monster 
 Box so it would be nice if I could see some of this cool stuff. I really don't care about the people 
 with a crappy computer.. play Xbox or get a job.. nuff said.
  
  I just built me a AMD 3000+ Barton, 2X CORSAIR MEMORY XMS 512MB 64MX64 PC-3200C2PT , A7N8X ASUS 
 mobo. All for 570 bucks. And I over paid.. :-)
  
  To the noob with the 1.0 ghz I hate to tell you bud but that's an ancient system really anything 
 under a 2.0 ghz (2000xp+) is, deal with it. 
  
  
  P. S. I bet you couldn't program your way out of a four loop. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jack_Tripper
Rating: 9
Date: May 31, 2003 2:12 pm PT
Review:  If you dont already know, Planetside is a Massively Multiplayer On-line First Person Shooter (or 
 MMOFPS for those of you in love with acronyms) . The basic premise is that you start out as a general 
 grunt, and through kills and base captures (the meat of experience building) , you earn certificates 
 that you can use to buy new abilities (whether that be Piloting a vehicle, earning new armor classes 
 with more room for weapons and ammo, or class changes-to s****er from grunt for example) . The players 
 are split up into three different factions of a warring society, and dropped onto the World, 
 where they duke it out for continental supremacy and dominance. This is achieved by capturing and 
 holding key points on the individual continents the world is broken into. These capture points 
 are bases, that are governed by a control point that must be hacked (a process by which you capture 
 that point, and hold it for 15 min, against all odds) . Once that is completed, you are rewarded 
 experience points based on; how long you were involved in the capture of the base, how many times 
 you died trying to capture the base, etc. All of this takes place in a persistent world with areas 
 (continents, are the subdivision of the world) that are so huge, they dwarf some of the biggest 
 levels in Tribes 2. The size of these levels makes travel by foot none to desirable, as it takes 
 forever to walk (especially if your wearing one of the heavier classes of armor) from base to base. 
 To remedy this, there are vehicles that can be obtained for transport, offense, defense, or just 
 plain old Sunday driving.
  
  Few things have interested my as much as the concept for Planetside. The very idea of a persistent 
 world first person shooter is one thing, but to be able to travel throughout that world in a squad/outfit 
 in vehicles, nonetheless, really had me excited from the get-go! I was a huge Tribes/Tribes 2 fan, 
 and the idea that I could keep a running profile of my victories and tribulations was very appealing. 
 The other big draw for me, was the idea of having 50 on 50 battles, with Tanks and Aircraft all 
 doing their thing I have to say, some of these fights can take on epic proportions and have to 
 be seen to be believed.
  
  Lets fast forward to the (almost) official release of the game, some months ago I was asked to 
 be part of the first public beta. So I went fourth to the internet, got the beta, downloaded itand 
 it was good! There were problems here and there, but overallexactly what I expected! Over the 
 months, things went from good to fair, occasionally skating with mediocrebut then back to good 
 again. By the time the beta had ended, I was still relatively sure the launch would go off without 
 a hitch. That was kind of true, I dont think that the launch was handled badly by any means, but 
 there were some problems (but more on that later) .
  
  The game lived up to all my expectations, there really is a lot of ground to cover here, and its 
 about as open ended as you can get. Want to pilot a Reaver (light armor, well equipped, air assault 
 vehicle) ? No problem, pop over to a certification terminal, and its as easy as clicking two buttons. 
 Decide that you want to drive tanks now? Great, either go earn more certificates, or choose to 
 unlearn another skill and apply those toward your tank certification. You can choose to play the 
 whole game as a grunt the whole time and never once pilot a vehicle, or you can choose only to 
 pilot and never fire one round with an assault rifle if you dont want to (though, I promise as 
 good as you may think you areyou will get shot down at some point, and it makes it much easier 
 to get back to a vehicle re-spawn terminal with a gun.)
  
  There are a couple of downsides to the experience however. First and foremost, minimum system requirements 
 are pretty steep. I warn you that running with a rig listed in the min sys req. on the side of 
 the box will not get you a pretty looking game. I run a 3GHZ + processor and a Radeon 9800 and 
 I still usually only play at 1280x1024 and keep AA/Aniso at about medium settings. To be perfectly 
 honest, this isnt a beautiful game. Some of the texture work is nice and all, but the draw distance 
 is miserable, fogging is used to help cover this, but that gets annoying too. As one would expect 
 of a game of this size, poly count was kept down on most everything in the game (to keep everything 
 working smooth) so dont expect anything breathtaking out of the models/bases. Also, Im not sure 
 if its just me or not, but AA/Aniso algorithms dont get all of the edges and I wind up with a 
 lot of blurred gray lines, where I normally expect to see clear black lines. The game is still 
 in its infancy though, and I expect graphics updates to appear regularly.
  
  Also, lag is a concern right now, though I will tell you that if you dont play on the most populated 
 servers from the start (Emerald, at the offset the only East Coast server) , you will have a much 
 better overall time with the game (I started on Emeraldwhat seems to be the most populated serverand 
 built up a characternow that its hugely overcrowded. I really dont want to start over againso 
 I deal with the LAG) . It was much touted a few weeks ago that Lag was bad, and the devs were not 
 doing anything about it. I have to say for the record, the worst I have ever seen it was over Memorial 
 Day weekend where the servers were crunched day and night-it was badIll give you that (but what 
 do you expect, it was the first two weeks of release on a holiday weekendhell the whole internet 
 was slow) . After that weekend, another East Coast server was put into place. Id expect no less, 
 as currently Im paying $13 a month for the right to play this gamekeep it smooth Sony, were paying 
 big bucks for this.
  
  Those things considered I still feel like this is one of the best games Ive played this year. 
 Despite the performance problems, this game still delivers exactly what it promisedand thats 
 a good thing. I cant wait for some of the newer vehicles to be put into place (a bomber is so 
 desperately needed its scary) , and hope to see them add new islands/bases to the existing continents. 
 Finding a fight is never a problem, as there are literally thousands of players on each of the 
 servers (usually and hopefully not ever all at once) . I can sign on at 4AM and still expect to 
 find the same amount of people on as I could at 8PM! Its a fantastic feeling to be at base, get 
 in an aerial transport vehicle (GAL or GALAXY) and be flown to the target to be hot dropped right 
 into the fray, and then capture that base. I cant quite put into words why this game is so great, 
 so Ill tell you to go find someone with it, and get their buddy key that lets you play a free 
 7-day trial. I hope that at the end of those 7 days, Ill see you singing on to your own account. happy 
 hunting!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: VISent
Rating: 3.9
Date: May 30, 2003 5:35 am PT
Review:  A sub-par first person shooter plagued with unresolved technical issues - that's how i'd sum up 
 Planetside so far. Even with a very powerful PC/laptop you'll likely encounter horrendous lag and 
 slowdown, even in relatively quite areas of the game. For example, whenever entering or leaving 
 a building expect a 1-3 second lock-up as the shoddy game engine tries to stream textures from 
 your hardrive. The same goes for battles - lag and stuttering can render game completely unplayable. 
 
  
  Technical frustrations and lack of support from the Planetside developers aside, what you're left 
 with is an ill-conceived game that basically wants to be the first fps to include mmog elements, 
 despite the obvious flaws with this concept. There's very little point to capturing bases as they'll 
 simply be recaptured a few moments later, and the slow character progression just makes the game 
 feel restricting as you move from vehicle to vehicle only to discover you don't have the appropriate 
 skills to use them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Krush_Groove
Rating: 6.8
Date: May 28, 2003 11:11 pm PT
Review:  An epic battle fought by thousands of armchair warriors in a persistent world. Such is the premise 
 of PlanetSide, which publisher Sony Online has dubbed the worlds first Massively Multiplayer Online 
 First Person Shooter (or MMOFPS, as the kids say) . The concept is good, and it was a noble effort 
 by Sony to spend years developing this game. Then again, Prohibition was considered by some historians 
 a noble effort as well, and most of us know how that worked out. 
  PlanetSide was shipped out last Tuesday (5/20) , and the Gamespot editors have yet to upload a review 
 for the game. Maybe its because of the fact they dont review games that appear to be still in 
 beta. Server shutdowns still appear daily to correct various bugs (such as XP exploits and voice 
 chat screwups) . Also, there still seems to be a slight imbalance between the weapons of each empire, 
 with the Terran Republic having the good fortune of owning the most powerful weapons of the three. 
 Of course, the Terrans also attract the most n00bs, whereas the Vanu Republic (with the weakest 
 weapons) tends to attract seasoned veterans of other team-based first-person shooters. If you havent 
 figured it out by now, the New Conglomerate is well-rounded in weapon capabilities and attracts 
 the intermediate crowd.
  If PlanetSide was released a couple years ago, the graphics would have been considered outstanding. 
 However, several games out now (and a few more on the horizon) have left this game in the dust, 
 in terms of visuals. This could partly be due to the fact that enhanced visuals would cut into 
 critical frames per second (FPS) needed for one to be competitive in battle. Nevertheless, it is 
 a shame that Sony Online didnt pay attention to how their competitions products were turning 
 out. If PlanetSide is meant to be played on a high-end computer, the developers should have put 
 a little effort into pushing the hardware to create the best visual experience possible.
  As of right now, there isnt much in terms of content. Apparently, the warriors of Auraxis only 
 need constant war and medipacks to survive. There are bases, sanctuaries, and gun towers. Thats 
 it. Nowhere to pick up a decent meal or gas up your Reaver, Gal, Vanguard, or whatever youre cruising 
 around in. Im not asking for a Sims war expansion or anything, but there should be a semblance 
 of a city structure within the game. 
  Also missing is a mission plan to make available to squads and outfits. Basically, the game currently 
 boils down to an eternal base color swap amongst the three empires. Getting in a game of Graffiti 
 is fine and dandy if youre playing Tony Hawk 4, but for a game that is supposed to be of Spartacus-esque 
 scale, something more is needed. The developers could have programmed Geo-Mod coding into the game, 
 so that bombers and tanks could blow holes into bases as an additional alternative to having infantry 
 rush into one of the two openings and get mowed down at the gate (Hot-dropping is a viable option 
 as well, if you can dance around bullets in midair) .
  The music, while not of John Williams quality, is tastefully done and does an excellent job of 
 matching the mood of the situation. The logout music gives one the idea that the game is depressed 
 that the player is leaving the game, trying to lure him back into the game for just a few more 
 minutes (before the inevitable server shutdown, anyway) . The firing effects for the weapons are 
 well done, but there arent enough loud explosions in the game. Hopefully this will be remedied 
 if the developers can program in the ability to destroy and rebuild bases.
  In conclusion, PlanetSide has a good concept and wonderful long-term potential on its side. However, 
 if there arent any good expansions or mods in the near future, I wouldnt suggest paying $13 a 
 month for it (not right now anyway) . If you want instant, constant, and gratuitous violence at 
 a better value, keep Counter-Strike and Battlefield 1942 on your hard drive. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SnugBall
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 27, 2003 1:57 pm PT
Review:  After reading the reviews of this game, you might be a bit torn tward buying it. Well, let me clearify 
 why this game might just be up your alley. If you've ever been part of a Clan, or other gamers 
 group of like minded individuals, and you had good experiences in that group, your allready half 
 way to loving PlanetSide. The other reason you might like PS is the fact that it is a first pearson 
 shooter with combat in real time... no locking on target and queing up attacks and moves; most 
 massive online games play in this fashion, and I for one find such games really boring.
  
  PlanetSide would apeal to most enthusiasts of first pearson shooters, but, only gamers that enjoy 
 playing in a team are going to find indefinate replay value in this game. You may have read that 
 this game is slow, or boring, the battles aren't so big, or whatever... these are the words of 
 players that have not either known of, or, not taken the time to find a serious squad with a decent 
 squad leader... they don't really know how to get the fun out of PlanetSide. Good leaders can tell 
 where the action is, they listen to other players that sound off about large battles, and they 
 target those locations accordingly always keeping you in the thick of it, having fun and gaining 
 massive experience points. The number of good squads is growing, and hence the number of good outfits (another 
 word for 'Clan') are growing as well. 
  
  PlanetSide is great fun but, you're not going to really know that unless you 
  give it a go. 
 Just remember, its a "TEAM GAME", if you like to make friends and play awesome PC games with those 
 people... your going to enjoy PlanetSide.
  
  I would like to make one note: PlanetSide requires a large amount of RAM to play. Recommended system 
 requirements call for no less than 512mb... I started playing this game in Beta with 256mb... it 
 played well in most areas, but 512 makes a HUGE and wonderful difference. Check the sys requirements 
 and make sure you have at least 512mb.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: AngelArms
Rating: 6.5
Date: May 26, 2003 5:02 pm PT
Review:  Played beta for a month up until release, and this is a clear example of how great server stability 
 and lots of "features" can still add up to one boring-azz game. It was kind of fun for awhile, 
 until you realize that you're just doing the same thing over and over again. Go capture a base 
 that looked exactly like the last one, get the xp, and move on to the next place. This repetition 
 wouldn't be a problem (see de_dust) except for the fact that you're paying a monthly fee to do 
 so. If you want vehicular combat, play BF1942 and download the Desert Combat mod... I guarantee 
 you'll have 10x more fun with 100x more replay value, and none of the monthly fees to pay.
  
  Don't get me wrong, I came into this game with really high hopes - I was following it for over 
 a year before I got into beta because I thought it was going to be the best game of the year... 
 but there's just nothing really at stake here. And yeah there's a couple thousand people on at 
 once, but there's so many continents and bases in the world that you'll rarely find more than 70 
 people at one battle at one time... which ends up not feeling too much different than 16 on 16 
 in any other online FPS. Overall, it's probably worth the free month of play, but only if you're 
 DYING for a game like this would I say to even spend those 50 bucks on it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chrisbrooke
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 26, 2003 8:07 am PT
Review:  I would say although certainly not the most graphically immpressive. They attempt and to a large 
 part succeed at many things. First getting 100's of complete strangers to work in unison is cool. 
 They rules force players to engage in squads and outfits. The concept of teamwork was in the past 
 a group of people running around trying to be the person who "gets the kill first" for the XP's. 
 Now you have squads acting like real teams. The concept of voice chat works periodically and disrupts 
 the sound but a worthwhile feature that I am sure will be improved on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Resplendent_Elk
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 26, 2003 5:38 am PT
Review:  Apart from being a solid online FPS with well-implemented action, tactics, factions, vehicles, 
 bases, etc, Planetside makes a recommendable job of finding its own niche in the crowded arena 
 of online games. It's not as deep as most RPGs, but it doesn't require players to invest the same 
 energy or time to get a good experiece. You can have a rewarding experience in just 30 minutes, 
 which MMORPGs generally don't allow, but there's also room for the gamers who like to waste all 
 their waking time to advance their character, get involved in communities and further the game. 
 The only real downside is the monthly fee, which is too high for a game that ultimately doesn't 
 offer the depth of MMORPGs (for good and bad) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: connor
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 22, 2003 12:42 pm PT
Review:  This is a really cool game. I knew it was goin to be good just buy looking at it. The way the game 
 is makes it alot of fun which i know the fun wont die out. The cetafication system is really well 
 made as along with the way the fighting takes place. The idea of taking over bases on continents 
 is really neat. The graphics in this game are good in some places and sometimes the r really awsome. The 
 sound isnt anything great even with a 400 watt 6.1 speaker system. The fact that squads can be formed 
 and that it is all online shows that the game will never die out cause there will always be updates. This 
 game is really good u should get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: desanvium
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 21, 2003 2:02 pm PT
Review:  After Beta testing this game for about 3 weeks, I can honestly say that SOE covered most of the 
 bases in so far as creating a well balanced FPS/RPG hybrid in an MMOL environment. Yes... it's not 
 perfect, and yes the dev team is going to have to come up with more stuff to fill the world with 
 in order to keep people paying for playing... to not give this game it's due credit would be to 
 deny how much time and effort went into a game that, for sheer size alone, rivals any other large 
 scale war game that I've played (including Battlefield 1942) . Forget about Halo on the PC... Planetside 
 is here to stay! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: weirjf
Rating: 4
Date: May 21, 2003 10:19 am PT
Review:  Here's the deal; play it for 3 weeks before you review it. Me? I was a beta tester, I'll give you 
 what you have to look forward to in the coming weeks:
  
  Graphics are interesting, but not great. Every base and tower looks the same. We complain about 
 cookie-cutter developers in our neighborhoods, why shouldn't we do the same in our games.
  
  Sound is ok, but weak. The ambient sound is pretty cool, but the weapon sounds are pathetic 
 and unbelievable.
  
  Gameplay; what a blast; for a couple of weeks. Then you realize that you paid $50 for the game 
 plus a monthly fee to trade the same identical-looking bases over and over again... it starts to 
 annoy you. How many times can you cap the same 2 bases before the term "pointless" comes to mind? 
 The big-battle feel is great, until the novelty wears off. Gaining levels is also pointless, by 
 BR12, I have all the skills I want and find myself buying more vehicle certs just because I can, 
 but never actually using them.
  
  There are so many games out there that do what PS does, only better and you don't need to pay a 
 monthly fee. "you're paying for the servers and the big battles"... let me clue you in on something... 
 even on a server with 3500-5000 people on it, you will rarely find yourself in a battle bigger 
 than 35 vs 35 because there are so many continents, and so many bases, and so many towers, and 
 people hanging out in sanctuary.... blah blah blah that even if the battles DO happen to get bigger, 
 then it becomes impossible to live more than a few minutes, which then cause the respawn time penalties 
 to start to kick in. The big battles become a cycle of attackers sitting on the base perimeter 
 firing on people on the wall, and defenders respawning in the base, firing back. *yawn*
  
  Buy it if you want, I'm saving my money for something that is fun for more than a few weeks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TalonX
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 21, 2003 5:13 am PT
Review:  In my opinion Planetside is one of the coolest games ever created. They took ideas from MMORPGs 
 (Massivly Multiplayer Online Role Playing Game) and made an MMOFPS (Massivly Multiplayer Online 
 First Person Shooter) . This was published by SOE so we can expect plenty of expansion packs ala 
 EverQuest.
  
  After you create a character by choosing one of three empires to fight for, a face, voice, and 
 name for your character you can get started. The core of Planetside consists of getting into a 
 squad of other people from your empire and capturing bases on one of the 10 continents that are 
 on the planet. You do this by using a device called the REK to hack into the control consle for 
 the base. Once the hack is finished you have to hold the base for 15 minutes until the hack transfers 
 control over to your empire. This can create some intense fun. Don't be afraid of being a newbie, 
 SOE was nice enough to put in a set of offline training tutorials and a practice shooting range 
 to use to learn your way around the game.
  
  In PlanetSide you gain levels like an RPG, this is called your Battle Rank, as you kill enemies 
 or capture bases you gain experience towards gaining a new Battle Rank. In a sense PlanetSide is 
 a leveling treadmill. Each battle rank gives you a certification point to spend on different vehicles, 
 weapons, or non-combat abilities such as being a Medic. Once you have a certification you can use 
 that peice of equipment anytime.
  
  As for the visual look of PlanetSide it is quite impressive. Now it isn't an Unreal Tournament, 
 but it is very nice in it's own sense. For example, one nice touch is that the ground isn't flat, 
 there is flora, such as flowers, grass, and weeds all over to add a nice look to the world. All 
 the models are nicely done as well. PlanetSide should run a moderate to high gaming system just 
 fine.
  
  PlanetSide has a nice assortment of music as well, different music for every ocassion that seems 
 to seamlessly fade in as whats going on in game changes. This is very cool and adds intensity to 
 the game. The guns and vehicles all sound decent as well. Don't expect the ultra realistic gun 
 sounds that you might see in a Rainbow Six game though.
  
  The inerface in PlanetSide isn't the greatest in the world, but it is out of the way and non intrusive. 
 On the top you will see your squad members names, health, and armor. You get a radar, a chat box, 
 and your own character status as well. Overall it isn't a bad inerface. Along with the chatbox 
 is a built in voice communication system you can use to communicate with your squad members with.
 
  
  Now it's time to talk about the downsides of PlanetSide. It has in a way a basic concept of capturing, 
 defending, and recapturing bases that may get old to some people, other people it may not. That 
 is the core of PlanetSide, although they will be adding new content to the game via downloadable 
 patchs and expansion packs, this is the state of the game now. I still recommend the game to anyone 
 that wants to play a great online FPS, PlanetSide is a fun game, hands down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zanetanos
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 20, 2003 8:43 pm PT
Review:  Overall I really enjoy this game and plan on keeping my subscription. This is one game that no 
 FPS or MMOG fan should be without. There have been quite a few new MMOGs in the past couple of 
 years, but this one truly is unique. It is the first game to integrate RPG, FPS, and MMO into one 
 game. Truly amazing.
  
  Gameplay:
  Great replay value. Think Tribes II, except MMO style. How does that sound? Pretty good I bet, 
 especially when you see those massive battles raging throughout the whole of an entire continent 
 or perhaps the entire planet. This game has great gameplay value.
  
  Graphics: 
  Best I have seen in a MMO game. Absolutely amazing. Considering this is an MMO game, makes the 
 graphics even more jaw dropping than they already are. The detail is amazing. I haven't seen one 
 glitch the ENTIRE time I have played in terms of graphics.
  
  Sound:
  5.1 Surround Sound + realistic Sounds for gunfire and other effects... need I say more?
  
  
 Value:
  I am gonna have to give this game a 6 on this due to the fact you have to pay a monthly fee. Don't 
 get me wrong I am glad to pay it... I am just not so sure about many other people, which means 
 less people to play with online.
  
  Tilt:
  Great game, loved it. Just buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wiggles
Rating: 7
Date: May 20, 2003 6:45 pm PT
Review:  Planetside is an overpriced, boring, first person shooter with slow paced combat that requires 
 little, if any, skill. The vehicle physics are below sub par, and the air vehicles are even worse 
 off; however, after playing the beta test, I have to admit, im hooked. This mediocre lagfest has 
 a hold on me, and I dont know why. Even though I could waste my days playing technically superior 
 games, e. g. Halo (or the less succesful, but equally, if not more entertaining, Mobile Forces) 
 for its intense vehicle combat; Quake III, Raven Shield or Counter Strike for their superior speed 
 and twitch oriented combat; and Soldier of Fortune II or Tribes II for their squad based combat, 
 I always came back to Planetside. You may be wondering why this insurmountable waste of time and 
 money has such a hold on me, and I can tell you with a straight face, that I really dont know. 
 But, I do have two theories, the first of which is freedom. In game, you can really do whatever 
 you want, whenever you want, wherever you want. Even though you are rewarded for working in a squad, 
 it isnt a neccesity. If you want to join a squad, wait around for 20 minutes while they debate 
 over exactly where in the massive world they want to go , listening to ridiculous remarks like 
 "I dont want to go to Hossin, its too cold" or "HOW BOUT DEM' BENGALS!!!" from your idiot squadmates 
 with names like BuzzLightBeer and BigTexas (By the way, you can usually find me on Johari under 
 the name BigTexas :P) . Or, if you dont feel like working with your teammates, you could just as 
 easily hop in any of a variety of one man vehicles and venture forth on your own. My second theory 
 is by far the more plausible, Sony Online Entertainment is EVIL!!!. Yes thats right, SOE is evil. 
 Planetside is an attempt to ensnare the first person shooter community, made up of casual gamers 
 for the most part, and swallow their souls in the same manner as the role playing folk were devoured 
 alive by Everquest. Well, maybe Sony doesnt want to absord our souls ala Chucky but they are after 
 our money... dear god, our money, $50 plus $13 a month is excessive to say the least. And one addiction 
 leads to another, before you know it, you will be up at 4 am playing Planetside, and need a caffeine 
 fix, so you'll drink a Mountain Dew, or a Red Bull, you know, just one to keep you up. But before 
 you know it, this will be every night, and you will be broke and unfulfilled. So listen to me and 
 listen good, they already got me, dont make my mistake. Stay clean. DONT buy Planetside, DONT do 
 the Dew... dear god dont do the dew... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dvader76
Rating: 1.8
Date: May 20, 2003 4:01 pm PT
Review:  After playing this game I was extremely dissappointed. This game brings nothing new to the FPS 
 other than the fact that you can have over 2000 people on a server at one time. Does this mean 
 you will actually see all 2000 people at once?... Not from what I see. The battles revolve around 
 caputuring bases and you may have 100 people or so at once defending/attacking. The bases all look 
 alike as do the character models. The gameplay is severely lacking in that you have the same objective 
 to just capture bases over and over and over for little, if any, decent rewards at all. The exp 
 system is not really that exciting due to the very few things you can actually specialize in that 
 are worthwhile/fun. The vehicle physics are anything but subpar and the "cone of fire" system of 
 shooting is basically just a spray and pray type of fighting with very little actual gaming "skill" 
 needed. Planetside brings nothing new or revolutionary to the FPS front, and to have to shell out 
 $50 bones up front and $13 a month is a little steep for the same kind of action you can have on 
 countless other "free" FPS that are already out and have been out for awhile. For the monthly cost 
 and the lack of good content and gamplay I would advise steering clear of this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mikemcl
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 20, 2003 3:26 pm PT
Review:  Just got it today. Great game!
  
  GAMEPLAY: 10/10. Awesome! Complete with upgradable skills, abilities and licences. Gamesplay is 
 smooth and nice on high end PCs. Slightrly slow paced, really depends on what vehicle/suit you 
 are using. Teams are quite well balanced and here's a brief description to help you choose:
  
  New Conglomerate: Heavy weapons, large variety.
  Vanu Sovereignty: Alien Technology, hovering 
 vehicles, laser/plasma weapons.
  Terran Republic (me) : Heavy Armor, strong tanks (and my personal favorite weapon: the Mini/Chaingun)
 
  
  GRAPHICS: Very good. Not amazing, but for the better. Good enough that it wasn't limited in the 
 terrain/modeling aspect, but not too good that it laggs out on sub-par configurations.
  
  SOUND: Uhm... Great. Nothing in the game is modeled on real counterpartss, but quality is high, 
 and crisp. Great with 5/6.1 surround sound.
  
  VALUE: Pretty good. You have to pay a monthly fee, have not figured out what it is, but this helps 
 the game get updated and new features and weapons will come out to fuel the games blazing fire. 
 Cool because it's llike your army is researching.
  
  REVIEWER'S TILT: I don't know what that is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zellk
Rating: 10
Date: May 20, 2003 3:03 pm PT
Review:  Planetside, a much needed twist in the MMO game community. PlanetSide delivers a fun and unique 
 gaming experience. I know of very few games that have tried to make a MMOFPS. However, each game 
 was weak in one aspect or another. PlanetSide shines in every attribute.
  Everything about PlanetSide runs smoothly, from server logins and updates, to taking over a base 
 in a tropical jungle. I am very impressed with the user-friendly interface. It is very easy for 
 a new player to learn PlanetSide, which makes it an excellent game for MMO new comers. PlanetSide 
 lets you try stuff out in a VR simulation before spending certification points on them.
  Ever wanted to feel like your making a difference in the world? I know I got tired of playing team 
 based games of 64 players. For a while I thought it was great, taking over a base in Tribes 2 and 
 winning the game. I couldn't help wonder, what if the game didn't change or restart the map. PlanetSide 
 is an on going world of hundreds of bases and towers scattered over 10 unique continents. Believe 
 me, it is the greatest feeling when you take over a base after a large battle. You changed the 
 map of the world for thousands of people.
  Another key aspect about PlanetSide is Battle Points and Leadership Points, better known as experience 
 points. You gain BP from fighting and taking over bases. After collecting 10 BP you gain a level 
 and a Certification Point. With CPs you can learn new abilities, like piloting and using new weapons. 
 Leadership Points are gained by being a squad leader. Gaining levels with Leadership Points gives 
 you abilities like placing Waypoint's on your squad's map. Leadership points make you a great squad 
 leader.
  PlanetSide is a great game to play with friends. Friends you know in real life or friends you meet 
 in game. PlanetSide has an awesome in game "clan" like system. Clans in PlanetSide are called Outfits. 
 There is a giant ranking system, which allows you view your Outfit's rank with other Outfits. Outfit 
 leader's can post announcements in their outfit info page. Outfit info pages show other various 
 information about your group, such as a member list. The Outfit leader can assign rankings to its 
 members.
  PlanetSide is WELL worth the monthly fee. If you have ever been skeptical about paying monthly 
 for a game (I know I have) no need to worry, PlanetSide is worth every penny. I know your money 
 will go to great use into future development of PlanetSide.
  
  I hope this review was helpful. SEE YOU IN PLANETSIDE!
  
  Want more info!? www. planetside. com 
 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
