-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: PlanetSide: Core Combat
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/planetsidecorecombat/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 13, 2003
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.4
Critic Score: 6.3, 21 Review (s)
User Score: 6.9, 144 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Sony Online Entertainment
Genre: Sci-Fi First-Person...
Date:     Oct 27, 2003
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
While some are more interesting than others, in practice, Core Combat's new additions don't seem 
 to add much to PlanetSide. 

  EverQuest creator Sony Online Entertainment released its massively multiplayer shooter PlanetSide 
 earlier this year. The game lets you play as a futuristic soldier in one of three factions, duking 
 it out for temporary control of five major continents by gaining "certifications" to carry different 
 weapons and items. Additionally, you can gain certifications in driving different vehicles. PlanetSide's 
 initial design was ambitious, and, at launch, it offered a uniquely enjoyable experience. Unfortunately, 
 it was compromised by technical problems and by a complete dependence on other players' performance. 
 So, if everyone else screwed around, you were doomed to lose. Six months later, Sony Online has 
 released an expansion pack, Core Combat, which adds new cavern areas, new weapons, new vehicles, 
 and a new game objective -- that consists of capturing modules from the caverns that can grant special 
 bonuses to your faction. While some are more interesting than others, in practice, Core Combat's 
 new additions don't seem to add much to the main game, and they suggest that the developer's time 
 might be better spent addressing other issues that plague the original game.  

          Core Combat introduces new cavern areas that look interesting but are usually empty.   
   

  Core Combat's most obvious addition to PlanetSide is a set of new cavern areas for each continent 
 that house "ancient technology" -- a technology that powers special modules which provide bonuses 
 when installed in a surface base. Additionally, ancient technology provides the expansion's new 
 weapons and vehicles. The caverns themselves are quite large but consist of tight areas that don't 
 allow too much room for vehicles, though they are connected by ziplines, a series of glowing lines 
 that drag any player who is on foot from beginning to end (ziplines were recently made two-way 
 transportation) . However, the caverns are accessed by portals that periodically become active and 
 inactive, so if you're "off-hour," you're out of luck. The developer has recently made the timer 
 a bit shorter, though. Ziplines or no, the caverns are still usually empty when you  can  access 
 them. This is because they're mainly a means to an end. The cavern represents a location you run 
 into. You then grab a module. Finally, you run back out to the surface so you can actually use 
 the module's benefits. Though you can also use cavern terminals to get any ancient technology weapons 
 or vehicles you may be certified to use, installing the right module in a surface base actually 
 lets you commission the new vehicles and weapons on the surface. Modules can also be stolen by 
 any players (even those who don't have Core Combat) , from enemy bases, for use in your own bases. 
 This means that you can participate in module runs without the expansion, even though you can't 
 use the new vehicles or weapons.  

  The expansion's new weapons include an assault rifle, called the radiator, which deals continuous 
 radiation damage to enemies; a heavy assault weapon, called the maelstrom; and perhaps the most 
 interesting weapon, the spiker, which is a pistol that deals a small amount of area-of-effect damage 
 on contact. As such, the spiker presents a viable, new option for players wearing PlanetSide's 
 restrictive infiltration suit, which allows only the use of small firearms. The vehicles seem a 
 bit more interesting. They include the router, a short-range two-way teleporter ideal for base 
 defense; the switchblade, a hovering vehicle that can be deployed as a more-damaging stationary 
 turret; and the flail, a powerful long-range artillery vehicle that fires at targets that your 
 teammates "paint" for you. The flail and router seem like the most popular of the vehicles, but 
 you won't see them on the battlefield that often, since they can only be commissioned from caverns 
 or from bases with a vehicle module, and they can only be commissioned while or after caverns have 
 become available for use. Sony Online has stated that it intended to introduce vehicles that are 
 different but not more powerful than existing vehicles (so that players who didn't get the expansion 
 would not be at a great disadvantage) , and this seems true. Apparently, these additions don't fundamentally 
 change or significantly improve PlanetSide's gameplay, either.  

  Since launch, the developer has introduced some new features into the core game, including a few 
 new vehicles, the ability to form double-sized squad groups (called platoons) , and lattice link 
 units (LLUs) . LLUs are items that are treated similarly to flags, from a standard first-person 
 capture-the-flag mode, and appear at certain bases when hacked. Module runs are actually similar 
 to LLU runs in that both modules and LLUs are crucial items that clearly mark their carriers and 
 can be dropped if their carriers are killed. Otherwise, the core game of PlanetSide remains similar 
 to the original game. Your primary goal is still to attack or defend surface bases by shooting 
 down your enemies, tending to the wounds of your comrades, and/or hacking enemy control centers 
 to eventually take control of bases for your faction.  

  As before, the game's pacing can sometimes include long periods of inactivity, where you're either 
 sitting and waiting for a control point to be hacked, or you're walking a long, long distance back 
 from your spawn point if you can't commission a nearby vehicle. Just as at launch, PlanetSide can 
 still be exciting and enjoyable -- as long as you're working together with a squad of competent players 
 who know their roles, and as long as you're not experiencing any lag. However, if you're either 
 stuck with bad teammates or experiencing lag, PlanetSide can get as frustrating as it was at launch. 
 As before, the game has a tendency to run into lag when lots of other characters are onscreen, 
 and, ironically, big battles with lots of opposing players and vehicles are where PlanetSide is 
 at its most interesting. The caverns were apparently intended to provide alternate battlegrounds, 
 and Sony Online has discussed plans to change access points to caverns so that they can be used 
 as transportation between different continents. This, along with other future changes, may make 
 caverns more appealing to players. However, as of now, they remain usually empty and are not always 
 accessible.  

          If you have bad teammates or bad lag, you can still expect to see this screen often.   
   

  Core Combat looks and sounds about the same as PlanetSide. The new cavern areas are filled with 
 colorful but blocky crystalline structures, and the new vehicles and weapons have an unusual, contoured 
 look to them. However, the new vehicles and weapons don't look significantly better than those 
 of the original game. Likewise, the expansion adds new sound effects for the new vehicles and weapons, 
 as well as new music for the cavern areas. While the sound is certainly appropriate for PlanetSide, 
 it, like that of the original game, isn't especially noteworthy or hard-hitting.  

  Core Combat's additions can be very interesting for PlanetSide players who take the extra effort -- and 
 really go out of their way -- to use them. As it stands, however, most players don't seem to bother; 
 they'll use routers and other vehicles, if available. Most of the game's action continues to take 
 place with standard-issue weapons and vehicles in and around surface bases -- all of which are included 
 in the original game. If you're a diehard PlanetSide fan looking to expand your game, you should 
 definitely consider Core Combat -- if you haven't already gotten it. Otherwise, if you're not a devoted 
 PlanetSide fan, it seems doubtful that this $30 expansion pack will change your mind about the 
 game.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (4 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Gammit10
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 6, 2007 3:28 pm PT
Review:  I am an avid Planetside fan, and have been since being in the exclusive beta. Nothing, and I mean 
 NOTHING, is as exciting as playing a FPS against not just 10-30 opponents, but THOUSANDS. Defending 
 a base, waiting for the attack, just to see the scout vehicle that you KNOW is heralding 20 tanks, 
 15 buggies, and about 40 infantry is tense to say the least.
  
  Now on to Core Combat (v2.0) . When Core Combat was released, it officially was a near-death blow 
 for Planetside. They released an expansion WAY too early (when it wasn't even wished for by the 
 community) , it was too buggy, and it advertised close-quarters, urban-style gameplay, which it 
 did NOT deliver. It did bring in some new equipment (artillery, a very nice pistol, and a SUPERpowered 
 heavy assault weapon) , but those positives were by far overshadowed by the issues. Thankfully, 
 those issues have mostly been resolved since then by well-thought tweaks and balances by the development 
 team.
  
  Since then, Planetside has grown in leaps and bounds, to be set back again by the addition of v3.0, 
 Aftershock (the addition of BFRs, or Mech-like robots) . Again, it was received with mixed reviews 
 by the community, but has since been brought in-line and into balance.
  
  Overall, I'd give PS a 10, Core Combat a 5, and Aftershock a 6.5. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gen_Rommel
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 18, 2004 8:55 am PT
Review:  This really is a great game but its just that its pretty difficult for begginers I mean you can 
 go to training and gain like 3 levels but that hardly helps actions awsome but you have to have 
 a good rank to last a while or else some guy in a mech suit will crush you wile your trying to 
 kill him with a mini gun that for some reason isnt very effective but all in all this game is pretty 
 good and is worth playing but you may not want to keep paying for it as it does have a semi low 
 replay value espicially after you die frequently and when that happens your respawn time increases 
 so you have to wait and wait even longer for you to get back into the battle So if you like first 
 person shooters and semi futuristic battleing this game is for you but if your looking to be in 
 a heated battle killing everything and blowing holes in buildings this is not for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: planetshaun
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 2, 2003 4:51 am PT
Review:  PlanetSide Core Combat being the first expansion pack for PlanetSide is a very good one, after 
 being in the beta and now playing Core Combat quite a lot I have to say it's a great expansion 
 pack, that has it's fare share of positive and negative aspects.
  
  One Negative aspect that also applies to PlanetSide itself is th frame rate problems suffered by 
 even top-end computers. The caves are not exactly high quality but they do offer a fun new aspect 
 of fighting on planetside.
  
  Large fights in these caves can be fun, vehicles can be purchased, you can zoom around on zip lines 
 and there's good fighting there too. One thing that is quite a downside is that these caves are 
 often easily captured as bases can be captured as soon as they are "hacked". Which spoils it quite 
 a bit. One other thing is the caverns are often abandoned as all the "modules" have already been 
 taken to the surface and there's no need to get any more.
  
  On the other hand fighting and combat here is very fun and enjoyable and overall if some of the 
 issues of it were fixed it would be really enjoyable expansion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: russlc
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 29, 2003 9:12 am PT
Review:  I have been playing Planetside for a month now and I am absolutely loving it. I got Core Combat 
 yesterday and it makes an already great game even better. The underground environments are well 
 designed, look great, and add a whole new gameplay element to the world of Auraxis. It also integrates 
 well with people that haven't purchased Core Combat yet. Each underground environment (a total 
 of 6 of them) have unique looks and attributes. You can get planes and tanks fighting underground 
 - quite impressive.
  
  In terms of value, you can get it for $29.00 and get an additional $10 coupon at ebworld so I feel 
 it is worth the price even though there is still the $11/month subscription. I dont really like 
 how SOE makes you pay for these expansions when they should be covered in subscriptions. Oh well, 
 compared to games like Max Payne 2 (with only 8 hours of game play)  it is a much better value.
 
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
