-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Platoon: The 1st Airborne Cavalry Division in Vietnam
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/platoonthe1stacdiv/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec  3, 2002
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.7
Critic Score: 5.3, 15 Review (s)
User Score: 6.4, 49 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Strategy First
Developer: Digital Reality
Genre: Real-Time Strategy
Date:     Nov 21, 2002
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Platoon isn't a bad game by any means, but it could have been much, much better. 

 If there had been computer games in the 1940s, it probably wouldn't have been considered safe or 
 even tasteful to make a game about World War II until maybe 1965. This logic may explain what appears 
 to be a newfound interest in the Vietnam War among computer game developers like Digital Reality. 
 The film  Platoon  was released back in 1986, so if you happen to be keeping track, the developer 
 has had plenty of time to try to follow up on the atmospheric film but may have fallen short of 
 the mark.           The game does a decent job of re-creating the feel of fighting in the Vietnam 
 War.    

  Despite the movie tie-in with the trademark shot of Willem Dafoe on the manual, the game itself 
 has nothing to do with the film, except for the Vietnam setting. There is a sort of story told 
 through the main character's diary, but generally speaking, Platoon is a fairly straightforward 
 squad-level real-time strategy game, which turns out to be a good thing. The game incorporates 
 terrain, weapon types, visibility, and cover in a surprisingly elegant manner. Terrain exists as 
 "areas" on the map, and different terrain types grant different types of cover and visibility bonuses. 
 You can see the extent of any terrain type by holding the cursor over that feature. This eliminates 
 any guesswork while creating some interesting tactical choices.   

  The graphics are nicely done, and although the soldier models look a bit clunky, the animations 
 are superb, and the terrain -- while it looks a bit artificial -- does a decent job of setting the 
 stage. The sound is a bit inconsistent; Platoon has simply excellent background music and absolutely 
 awful voice-overs. You'll be best served by turning the voices completely off.   

  The game itself has 12 separate missions. Once you play a mission in the campaign, you can unlock 
 it for solo play. The first time you go through a mission, you'll find that the game does a good 
 job of re-creating what it must have felt like to fight through the jungles of Vietnam. You'll 
 creep along, unsure where the next danger will appear, and worry about the slow speed of your support 
 weapons, and you'll also have to worry about making your soldiers crawl to take advantage of cover. 
 Soldiers have only health points and endurance -- they can't develop their skills, so Platoon doesn't 
 really have much in the way of role-playing game elements.   

  Platoon's gameplay is simple without being simplistic. Soldiers can stand, run, or lie prone. Unit 
 facing and position are very important, and setting up your units prone in good terrain is essential 
 to getting through extended firefights. The game does a good job of informing you when you've spotted 
 enemy units or when you're taking fire from an as-yet-unseen source, and with the ability to pause 
 the game and issue orders, you'll never feel like you've lost control. Missions typically consist 
 of several objectives, which are revealed to you sequentially throughout the mission.   

  Unfortunately, because the missions are completely scripted, once you've gone through part of a 
 mission the first time, you'll know exactly what to expect the next time through, so you'll be 
 reloading missions with complete knowledge of all the mines, ambushes, and other "surprise" events 
 you've seen up to that point.           The terrain "areas" actually work quite well despite the 
 abstract way in which they're presented.    

  You'll be doing this a lot, too, because even on the medium difficulty setting, Platoon is quite 
 tough. This isn't, of course, due to any skillful play by the AI, but is simply due to the fact 
 that you'll be greatly outnumbered and face so many enemies that you'll be forced to reload each 
 mission multiple times. There is no in-mission save, so if you screw something up three-quarters 
 of the way through the mission, you'll have to go back to the beginning and do it all over again. 
 This is where the game gets most of its replay value, because these missions are  very  difficult. 
 They are puzzles with very little margin for error, and as you load one for the second, fourth, 
 and even 10th time, you'll find frustration overshadowing a lot of the game's strengths.   

  It's a shame that all these limitations keep Platoon from being a truly good game, because the 
 basic game engine works quite nicely. The slightly abstracted terrain really gives a nice feel 
 for the cat-and-mouse tactics so common in the Vietnam War, and if the scenarios had been designed 
 better (and if the game gave you a few more resources early on) , Platoon could have been a remarkably 
 good game. Instead, you get lots of repetitious play and no tactically challenging situations. 
 Even the introduction of tanks and air strikes later on can't save it. Platoon isn't a bad game 
 by any means, but it could have been much, much better.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (3 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: UBCS1967
Rating: 4.9
Date: Mar 23, 2006 4:41 pm PT
Review:  Ok besides this game not being anything at all like the movie it was named after besides being 
 in Vietnam, the game is ok accept (I haven't downloaded this patch yet) it is really friggin' hard 
 to play. If you don't see the enemy first and you don't get to ambush them or at least open fire 
 first your squad will be turned to mince meat extremely fast and with no relent. Also navigating 
 the map quickly is laughable with this game because even though your men can run once they run 
 out of stamina they have to stop and cannot even shoot until they get at least half of it back. 
 The machine-gunners in your squad also run out of stamina way faster then your riflemen do so your 
 also waiting all day for them to even arrive and then you have to wait longer for them to set up. 
 So go ahead and buy this game if you want but don't spend any more then 10 dollars on it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: QC17
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 8, 2005 8:42 pm PT
Review:  Overview: I pick this game up for $5. It is by no means the best RTS i've ever played but for the 
 price its not bad.
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay is pretty good. Missions vary from rescues to search and destroy. There 
 are a good number of different kinds of units and vehicles. With the latest patch your squads are 
 smart enough to survive. Without it, they won't fire back until told, so do yourself a favor and 
 get it.
  
  Graphics: Not the best but for five bucks you can argue.
  
  Sound: Sound is fairly good. Explosions sound okay and gunfire sounds generic. 
  
  Value: There 
 are a good amount of missions to keep you busy for awhile and there is multiplayer mode to play 
 on a LAN. 
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mgindles
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jan 8, 2005 12:58 am PT
Review:  When this game first came out, it was way ahead of the current Vietnam craze, and as such actually 
 stood out. The game follows a platoon leader (you) as he progresses through his tour of duty in 
 Vietnam. Except for a brief animated sequence at the end of a level of the famous scene from the 
 movie in which Sgt. Elias runs from the VC through the jungle as the Huey lifts off, the game has 
 nothing to do with the actual movie.
  When this game was first released, the player was only allowed to save at the end of the level 
 after completing it. This aspect made the game virtually impossible, as you would have to repeat 
 levels many times to advance. However, the latest patch allows the player to save as many times 
 as he wishes at any point during the level. This review is from playing the game after installing 
 the patch.
  Ironically, the ability to save mid-level makes this game short and easy. Most players will probably 
 be able to complete the 12 levels in under ten hours. When you dont have to redo any parts of 
 the level, you suddenly realize just how short each level really is. Unfortunately, the levels 
 really dont become much more difficult with each new level.
  Ill start with the graphics which are actually pretty impressive. The characters are kind of blocky 
 and the VC characters are a generic template but the backgrounds are pretty nice to look at. The 
 game does a nice job rendering the various terrains of Vietnam, whether its the jungle or mountainous 
 terrain. Dusty roads have tire tracks in them and burned out villages still smoke, a nice touch.
 
  The sound and music, on the other hand, is on the other end of the scale. While I cant say that 
 they are awful, they really dont vary enough to be enjoyable. The music is pretty much the same 
 from level to level. And the sound effects do not include more than the standard explosions and 
 gun shots found in a war game. The voice acting is also pretty average and only occurs in small 
 spurts, but in fairness, this really isnt much of a story oriented game and isnt necessary.
 
  Game controls are also pretty simplistic and standard, again nothing to complain about. Usually 
 you only have a few units to control and order around. You can pause the game and issue orders 
 at any time. This is a nice feature in the combat portions of the game.
  And now on to combat. From the standpoint of a tactical strategy game, there is not much in the 
 way of tactics and strategy. When combat breaks out, it goes pretty much like this: you immediately 
 slam the spacebar to pause things. Then you have all of your units drop to the ground because the 
 game gives a cover bonus (and therefore harder to hit) . If you also have a chance, you send your 
 units to crawl into the jungle because you get an even better cover bonus if your men are fired 
 on in the jungle. Then you tell everybody to fire on the VC unit or units that are attacking. Then 
 you hit the space bar again to unpause the action. Then you sit back and watch and hope that your 
 men take out the enemy before they take you out. Thats pretty much it. On occasion, youll need 
 to time it right to have a mortar land in the middle of a charging group of VC or lay down a claymore 
 in the path of a tank, but thats about it.
  Unfortunately, the only level with any type of strategy is the very last level. In that level, 
 you initially have only single green beret to help take back an LZ from a much more powerful force. 
 Usually, though, brute force is the way to go.
  The levels are also the same each time you play them. If your platoon comes across a ridge and 
 is suddenly attacked by five soldiers, every time you cross that ridge when you play the game, 
 you will be attacked by five soldiers. As a result, if you lose your men one time, you can almost 
 set an ambush when you replay the next time. This takes a lot of the challenge out of the game, 
 a result of the new patch.
  With all of that said, I will recommend this game as a nice bargain bin item. Ive seen this in 
 stores for as low as $5. It is definitely worth five or even ten dollars and you wont be disappointed. 
 Any more than that and you may not get your moneys worth.
  Overall, this game could have been a lot more than it was. However, as the result of not being 
 much in the way of strategy and the short levels (with the patch) you will probably want more when 
 you finish. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
