-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Playboy: The Mansion
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/playboymansion/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Cool extras pulled from Playboy.
 Eclectic soundtrack.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Half-hearted clone of The Sims.
 Sucks the fun out of the Playboy ideal.
 No depth to the gameplay.
 Censored soundtrack.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jan 28, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.3
Critic Score: 6.0, 31 Review (s)
User Score: 6.8, 1,390 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Arush Entertainment
Developer: Cyberlore Studios
Genre: Business Strategy
Date:     Jan 25, 2005 &raquo;  
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
This Sims-style strategy game comes off as cold and mechanical, capturing none of the devil-may-care 
 attitude you'd expect and casting Hef's idyllic lifestyle as a hollow grind. 

  The life of Hugh M. Hefner, the man whose lifestyle  Playboy  almost seems named after, is the 
 stuff of dreams. Or, as it might seem in Cyberlore's Playboy: The Mansion, the stuff of good PR. 
 You'll take control of a virtual Hef to try to build the Playboy empire while rubbing elbows with 
 celebrities, frolicking with Playboy Bunnies and Playmates alike, and throwing a seemingly endless 
 string of parties along the way. Oh, and you'll publish a magazine or two. Yet despite the bacchanalian 
 context, this Sims-style strategy game comes off as cold and mechanical, capturing none of the 
 devil-may-care attitude you'd expect and casting Hef's idyllic lifestyle as a hollow grind established 
 purely for the sake of selling more magazines.  

          Now you've got a friend in the magazine business.     

  The idea is that as a young, 
 vital Hugh Hefner, you take the magazine from the first issue and build it up from there. However, 
 in the game's mission mode, you'll get a good head start by having already acquired the famous 
 Playboy Mansion. The game breaks down into three easy pieces. Of course, your primary concern is 
 publishing your magazine, which demands that you acquire a set number of pieces of content: one 
 cover shot, one centerfold, one article, one interview, one essay, and one pictorial. You'll need 
 to hire a small staff of journalists and photographers to produce most of the content, as well 
 as a new Playmate each month, but for the cover shots, essays, and interviews, you'll need celebrities. 

  To get connected to celebrities, you'll need to throw some parties... a lot of parties, actually. 
 By inviting prominent figures from the worlds of politics, sports, and just about every arm of 
 the entertainment industry to your get-togethers, you'll be able to strike up conversations with 
 them. And after you've gotten to know them, you can ask them to contribute to the magazine. Social 
 networking plays a big role in Playboy: The Mansion, though its execution is extremely shallow, 
 making it easy to go from perfect strangers to best friends, to business partners, to intimate 
 partners with a few clicks of the dialogue menu.  

  Successful parties will increase your overall fame, which helps sell magazines. To throw a successful 
 party, you'll need to make sure you've invited a group of compatible people, in addition to hiring 
 Playboy Bunny hostesses to keep the rooms alive and providing plenty of other activities to keep 
 your guests happy. To keep the Mansion as fabulous as possible, you'll have to take some of your 
 magazine money and reinvest it in the grounds. There's an extensive amount of customization available, 
 letting you determine the floor plan of the mansion as well as the furniture and various decorative 
 pieces that are housed inside.  

  It seems like there's a lot to juggle in the Mansion, but in reality it only requires as much tending 
 as you feel compelled to invest. Time seems kind of nebulous, and you have no hard deadlines for 
 when you need to have each month's issue finalized, allowing you to collect the content you'll 
 need at your own leisure. Similarly, if you don't want to obsess over the interior design of the 
 Mansion, you can simply do the bare minimum to keep guests happy and be done with it, since Hef's 
 own personal satisfaction isn't a factor at all. In fact, rather than being harrowing, which might 
 even be preferable, Playboy: The Mansion is just dull. Your goals and your means to them are laid 
 out pretty plainly, and the obstacles between you and success are numbered.  

  The game gives you the option of playing in mission or free-form mode. The mission mode provides 
 you with additional goals to meet as you publish magazines, throw parties, and expand the Mansion, 
 while the free-form mode stays true to its name by letting you play however you feel fit. Though 
 the PC version's mouse-based controls feel a bit more natural, especially given the heavy influence 
 of The Sims, experiences with the PS2 and Xbox versions aren't too different from each other, both 
 in terms of navigation and overall presentation.  

  The most compelling bit of content inside Playboy: The Mansion involves the unlockable extras, 
 which include classic Playboy covers, centerfolds, and interviews with celebrities ranging from 
 Snoop Dogg to Jimmy Carter. The dozens of photos from across Playboy's history provide an interesting 
 retrospective on the magazine, and to a certain extent, American pop culture at large. The interviews 
 hold up without any nostalgic assistance and simply represent good reads. Ironically, the articles 
 might just be the best reason to subscribe to Playboy: The Mansion.  

  The game plays an awful lot like The Sims, and its presentation similarities to Maxis' suburban 
 lifestyle simulation are many as well. The game is mostly played from a three-quarters overhead 
 perspective, though you can spin the camera around and zoom in and out at will. The people in the 
 game all have a pleasantly nondescript look to them,  la The Sims, and after interacting with 
 dozens of unique celebrities and staffers, they'll all start blending together. Similarly, the 
 girls who pose for the cover and centerfold shoots, despite having different hairstyles, skin tones, 
 and bra sizes, are otherwise indistinguishable. Combine this with the limited animation routines 
 the girls go through during the photo shoots, and over the course of publishing a year's worth 
 of  Playboy  magazines, it'll start seeming like you're just taking pictures of the same girl in 
 a different wig... which, if you think about it, is kind of creepy. The overall look is mildly playful 
 and a little chunky, and despite a bevy of topless models galavanting around the grounds, the game 
 never even proffers a close brush with titillation. It makes some effort, but the bland, somewhat 
 mechanical look of the game keeps it from being anything more than just slightly bawdy.  

          This is what happens when The Sims goes wild.     

  Buying sound systems for the Mansion 
 can provide you with some good background music that covers a pretty broad range of tunes, from 
 fairly stock rock, hip-hop, and techno stations to more-unusual options, such as an industrial 
 station, a flamenco station, and a jazz station. More curious than the eclectic nature of the soundtrack 
 in Playboy: The Mansion is the rampant censoring. Having already earned a firm M-rating with its 
 healthy attitude toward toplessness (both digital and otherwise) , Playboy: The Mansion's self-censorship 
 seems almost hypocritical. Though Hef and everyone else who visits the Mansion speaks in some house-brand 
 version of simlish, the gibberish language spoken by sims in The Sims, you have a handful of assistants 
 and executives that will regularly dole out useful information in plain English. Their utility 
 far outstrips the chops of the voice actors, whose reading of the expositional dialogue is often 
 stilted and unnatural. The music is the most prominent element in the game's sound design, and 
 it does inject a little personality into the proceedings. However, the game still can't help but 
 feel kind of dry.  

  Beyond simply not being a particularly compelling game, Playboy: The Mansion really seems to balk 
 at presenting the swinging spirit of the Playboy name, and it openly treats both Hefner and the 
 Playboy reader like a commodity. Like Hef himself, who has gradually shifted from outspoken cultural 
 icon to caricatured corporate mascot, there's not a lot of Playboy left in The Mansion.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (21 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: CRC000
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 9, 2009 8:46 pm PT
Review:  This is a somewhat older game (2005 release) , i've had it for years sitting in a box gathering 
 dust while I played other games. I can't believe I missed out for so long on such a fun title... 
 This game is very similar to The Sims, but without as much complexity. You get to be Hef, at the 
 start of the playboy empire. 
  
  It's an adult game, but sex in the game isn't really anything to get too excited about; the focus 
 is on building the magazine... 
  
  you get to build and design the playboy mansion (upper and lower levels) , plus the grotto (pool 
 area) and the clubhouse (games areas) . you can easily spend dozens of enjoyable hours customizing 
 and tweaking layouts (i sure did) . 
  
  As you introduce new magazines and hold successful parties, you gain fame. As fame increases, you 
 unlock locations, more famous people to meet, more famous people to hire for your staff, as well 
 as in-game objects. 
  
  The formula is moderately simplistic to gain fame, but it's entertaining in its own way. It's quite 
 a bit of fun to play this while i wait for The Sims 3 to be released. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gigapunk
Rating: 4.9
Date: Apr 19, 2007 11:02 am PT
Review:  How to sell a mediocre product? Simple! Just find a good sponsor, give it a good name, put it into 
 an appealing package and you're done!
  Who could resist that little bunny (and that girl) on the box? Who could not think OMG! I always 
 dreamed them, now I can play with them! ? :P
  
  I must admit it.. i fell in the trap...
  
  (... though i bought the game bundled with a magazine for 5$, so that's not a big deal :) )
 
  Anyway.. let's get back to the game, I can synthesize it in just three words: boring, pointless, 
 repetitive.
  I got bored playing this after one hour of play, but i wanted to give it a second chance and forced 
 myself to play it a little more (just to confirm my first opinion) .
  
  The game goal is to publish as many issues of the magazine as you can and then become rich and 
 famous.. and this is achieved by always doing the same mechanical steps: hiring a staff, organize 
 a party to ask VIPs some contribution for the magazine (a photo shoot for the cover and an interview) 
 tell the journalist to write an article and so on...
  You can also take the pics of the playmate of the month by yourself, but even this feature is boring 
 as hell, there are so few poses and expression that u'll probably end all possible combination 
 before the December issue is out. (and i don't know why, but all the girls looks the same when 
 you take photos, once I invited an asian looking girl with ponytails, but when i had to take the 
 pics, she looked as all of the other girls i saw before her, same face, same long hairs (no ponytails) .. 
 but maybe that was just a bug...)
  
  The main aspect of the game (publishing issues) is contoured with other features that should make 
 it more interesting... but they don't:
  
  .. as the title reads.. building the mansion .
  Even the houses in the sims (1) looked better than the mansion .
  The items ugly and completely 
 useless: u can buy a bed but u can't sleep, u can set up a nice dining room, but that will be useless 
 too, since there is no need to eat in the game.
  the mansion is not even useful even in the terms of gameplay.. I published 3 numbers of the magazine 
 without leaving the party room (just a room with a bar table and a stereo) , keeping clicking on 
 the organize a party button, waiting for the VIPs to arrive and socialize with them..
  
  .. and that is the other feature that fails to make the game less boring.. socializing and live 
 the life of the great Hef. (I hope his real life was waaaay more interesting than this) .
  Socializing just consist on clicking on the person u want to talk to and choose from a series of 
 chained options..... and then wait for a LONG and SLOW animation to finish before u can choose 
 the next conversation option and go on with the dialogue... in one word... boring
  
  2 years have passed since the game was released.. so I don't think many people is buying this anymore.. 
 but if that idea passes in your mind, be smart, look further the bunny and the girl on the cover, 
 and buy the Sims2 instead.. that is 10000 times better; and if u want something adult at all cost... 
 the sims could be better than this game (that IS supposed to be adult) in that aspect too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kingrich06
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jan 16, 2007 11:00 pm PT
Review:  I thought this would be adult version of Sims, I was so wrong. It not even a close relative. Visually 
 I thought this could be a lot better. Leisure Larry Larry has nicer visuals than this game. There 
 was way overuse of the Playboy Logo. I imaging developers wanted to keep reminding you what game 
 youre playing.
  One of the few positives is we get to see what the Playboy Mansion would look like inside.
  Even 
 though I like strategy games and micro managing games, this one got really boring after about thirty 
 minutes of game play. I would strongly recommend staying away from this game or if you want to 
 see this game I would advise on renting it before hand.
  Even Viagra cant help this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: guzganu2006
Rating: 6.3
Date: Dec 29, 2006 8:57 am PT
Review:  The game makes massive use of the build style we found in series such as The Sims . Of course, 
 it's only a reminder of that, focusing on what Hef had to deal with on his way to building the 
 mammoth empire that Playboy is today. As is written in the official review, we only find the ideas 
 and problems, leaving very little room to actually enjoy the lifestyle of Hugh Hefner. If anyone 
 said that Hugh never sleeps, I think the game makes this point very obvious, thus taking away much 
 of what realism the game had left. Sure, it's much easier this way, but... not quite the same. 
 The Sims proved frustrating at a point when you had to take care of your entire family's needs 
 at the same time. Well, try entertaining a house full of guests all equally important and convincing 
 them to sign contracts or do cover shoots. It's not that hard during the first few missions, but 
 after mission 5 these issues require so much of your attention that it's the only thing you'll 
 see: a life full of trouble. All work and no play... Hef is THE playboy after all and the free 
 build mode doesn't help the game get back on its feet much. If anything, the soundtrack is quite 
 good, more than I would have expected. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AmarJ
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 20, 2006 5:32 am PT
Review:  Any good you will find good of this game are the girls, belive me they do look good. You play the 
 role of a young Hef. In his shoes you get the power of becoming the playboy magazine editor. Arrange 
 ur staff, build their office and pay them, seems good. Then impress girls, models and actresses, 
 build casual flirting relationships and get them to shoot for centerfolds or cover pages, that 
 is a good part of the game, and the more sexier posed photos with better backgrounds get higher 
 ratings. And invite personalities for reviews and articles via parties. But that's the biggest 
 blunder of this game, yeah, the parties. You will soon notice girls flirting with each other making 
 love. Clearly that's absurd. The story mission doesn't add much sprite either. Plus, there are not 
 much environments in the game, infact only four which adds to the game's boringness. The free mode 
 and story mode are almost the same save the fact that the story mode wants you to impress certain 
 personalities, big deal ! But a few melodious tracks may get you to play a bit more. So, all in 
 all, this game is not even near to the Sims. Rent it first, trust me, you will never want to buy 
 this, don't waste your money 'cause this game's damn boring. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kuipstoel
Rating: 6.7
Date: Sep 30, 2006 1:14 pm PT
Review:  When you see it in the stors and sh*t ya think: O What nice i always read the magazine way shall 
 i not buy the game . And then you and buy it. Ok till here its ok and the first hour of playing 
 too. But after then you wanna bring it back and ask you cash back. Becouse its look very much like 
 the Sims. You can make you own characters and you can dress them too. the extra what this game 
 has and the sims not is a Goal and a view and hommade breast's. The onlything nice on this game 
 is that you can look at archives from all the years. And You can see the you now what. thats nice.
 
  
  It looks nice i the stores but in your Computer its crap. Just like Driver. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shailesh_das
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 19, 2006 3:59 am PT
Review:  This game becomes complicated after level 4. The player has to worry about the relationships and 
 it becomes very hectic. Its very mechanical. The game does not gives what was expected from a top 
 adult brand like playboy.
  It just gives you the ability to take screenshots. Which is the only good feature in this game. 
 The sex scenes are pathetic. The gameplay becomes tough as you increase the staff and your relationships 
 with other people and you have to look into the relationships does not gets low. The graphic in 
 this game are nice. The music is also good and they are in mp3 format in the game folder. Its not 
 so addictive game. The player gets bored after 4th level. Doing the same relation thing again and 
 again. It wont give you the time to use your imagination to build the environment because you have 
 to pay the staff salary as the time passes. The game theme is nice but it might be even better 
 if it gives some better adult scenes etc. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheCMan13
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 31, 2006 5:44 pm PT
Review:  I had been reading about the Playboy game for quite a while now and I was flip flopping whether 
 to get it or not, well I waited for the price to drop to twenty and I said what ever I will pick 
 it up! And I was happy to I am generally a big fan of bussiness simulation or tycoon games and 
 I think that this is one of the better ones! First lets start with the gameplay there is quite 
 alot to do in the ol' playboy mansion (whoda thunk!) whether you are fooling with the playmates 
 putting togeter material for your sophisticated porno magizine chilling with your inner circle 
 throwing awsome partys or many other things! Not to forget the very, very fun photo shoot sessions 
 the game is almost worth that! The graphics wernt the best but they sure looked nice during a photo 
 shoot hmmm! I loved the sound it has a million diffrent stations all with awsome music to run your 
 empire to! I think it has large value also just to its famous name also this game has great tilt. 
 So I think in all this is a great game so I will go on and give this game a 8.6 now you should 
 try it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: citislacker
Rating: 7
Date: May 17, 2006 1:11 pm PT
Review:  
  
  this time again they have proved that they can keep in the competition. This game well as u can 
 gess from da name !!!!! 
  THIS IS THAT KIND OF GAME IN WHICH U GOT TO HAVE A SEPERATE PAIR OF UNDIES....
  n u need then 
 trust me.. any hoo diss game has nice graphics n the game play is kOOL but it culd be improved, 
 it kud be better... well it doesn't count cuz da character sketches r 
 
  but it gets a bit to long an going and keeps on going going going n going on.
  though it has only abt 11 - 12 missions. but they r really lenthy. i actually got tired playing 
 this game. 
  
  
  
  
  but in all aspect .. the game is play able.
  espically ppl like me a gonna like the details in this game. ;) .
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: aiman24
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 1, 2006 3:27 am PT
Review:  what it says on the top, the game is kinda like the sims only slower... and only Hef is controllable....
 
  the story and everythin is that u have to make a lot of money by selling playboy magazines, in 
 which u have to get pics of girls, an interview of someone famous, an article on anythin, etc... the 
 more magazines the better... u can make many girlfriends, u can have sex, view the girls in nude, 
 etc... all throughout the game u have to make friends have parties make magazines make girlfriends 
 and more
  overall the game isnt that good, but if ur really into these simulation type games then rent it.... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cid8807
Rating: 6.8
Date: Feb 27, 2006 6:18 pm PT
Review:  Playboy is given to you step-by-step in a lenient, tutorial Mission Mode or you can wing it in 
 a Free Play Mode, though "Play" is term loosely applied. You must first choose up to ten compatible 
 people among celebrities, models, rock stars, pro athletes, or politicians. Social engineering 
 is inherantly a dull venture, since what you're doing is eliminating factors which would contribute 
 to chaosand chaos should be the fun part, especially in The Grotto! Thankfully, you can have 
 your assistant choose the ten most compatible people for you. She'll do a much better job at picking 
 them instantaneously anyway than you would with an hour to kill, so strike that one off the "To 
 Do" list. 
  There are many other features of the game that you'll have to figure out for yourself once you 
 play the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: miguelpalazzo
Rating: 1.1
Date: Feb 13, 2006 4:51 pm PT
Review:  If you liked The Sims 2 and thought you would get more fun with this game, YOU WERE WRONG!
  
  What you get with this so called "Mansion" it is just a bunch of Sims running around dressed 
 like bunnies, using bikinis or nothing at all. Can I say something else about the game? I think 
 not because there isn't.
  
  Do you want to have more fun than with The Sims 2? Go get its expansion packs! You would feel a 
 lot better wasting your money buying all of them than playing a "mature" (which looks more like 
 a game to show a child some porn) game.
  
  Seriously, if this game was Hefner's idea for a game to immerse people on his oh so wonderful mansion, 
 he didn't consider how boresome you needed to be in order to see more than on TV shows, but with 
 worse ambient. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CooperTeam
Rating: 6.2
Date: Jan 27, 2006 11:11 am PT
Review:  As far as I am concerned, this IS a SIMS2 knock-off. The engine is the same, the playability is 
 the same, the Idea is the same, even the comversations are done the same way. The only exception 
 is that you can only control one person in the game. Hefner, the Playboy ower himself. You can 
 tell other people what to do, but you can't really control them.
  
  GRAPHICS
  =========
  Graphics are great, very equal to SIMS2. The characters are nicely detailed and move 
 as if they were real people. The items you buy are also very well detailed as well. Chairs, pool 
 table, swimming pool, even the house you make is very well done. All looks very detailed oriented. 
 They put a lot of time and effort into realism, I can tell.
  
  CONTROL
  =========
  Pretty straight forward. Use the mouse to control the characters, interact with objects and other 
 people, move your camera around the screen so you can get a better view (Of more things than naked 
 bunnies :-) ) , and also used to make your magazine. You can't get much more simplistic than that. 
 The only down side is that you can only control Hefner, but Hefner can tell his workers and Bunnies 
 what to do.
  
  OVERALL
  ========
  To me, this is just Playboys attempt at trying to get into the gaming market. I mean, since this 
 game is also for PS2 and XBOX and I think also Game Cube. I personally don't think this game was 
 ment for just to get and play, it seems for like a publicity stunt. Mind you, of course, I am not 
 complaining, but to make a game just to get your name or product in a particular market is not 
 always a good idea. As I said, I am pretty sure that was the whole Idea. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ch33zWiz
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 26, 2006 3:38 pm PT
Review:  PB is just about as fun as the Sims, just like it looked on the back of the box. The pervs will 
 be let down; "sex" scenes are dry humping infinitely on couches and pixelated boobs grow old quickly. 
 But PB is better than the almighty Sims in one aspect, there's actually a goal to be achieved. 
 While growing as an empire, you release better issues, meet bigger celebs, and get more skilled 
 staff. The game is addictive, but as each mission involves talking to a group of people, then getting 
 them to talk, and talking McTalkerson.... it can get old. Being able to put your own tunes from 
 the pc to your in-game stereo does rock though. Nothing quite like having a lingerie party with 
 government officials while rocking out to Disturbed and playing "just the tip" with the senator 
 in a bush.
  
  Worth buying for 25 bucks or so... or at least worth pirating off the internet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: durrty2
Rating: 5.5
Date: Dec 31, 2005 9:26 pm PT
Review:  For all you Sims players out there or just people who really like to look at topless pixilated 
 video game characters (yes theres nudity in this game) might want to check this title out. You 
 play as Hugh Heffner and taking control of his entire playboy empire. In the game your main goal 
 is to create monthly issues of the playboy magazine. You fire and hire staff, have to befriend 
 celebrities while gathering material for his magazine. That includes articles, interviews and arranging 
 photo shoots. In order to achieve these goals, you can throw parties. At these parties, Hef can 
 make the connections he need for business or personal pleasures. Playboy the mansion isnt a bad 
 game but also not a good one, it offers some laughs, good ideas and fun for some mature gamers 
 looking for a sim like game. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SZeroC
Rating: 6.9
Date: Dec 20, 2005 4:20 am PT
Review:  Money makes everything better. Take pornography, throw some money at itand it becomes art. Trouble 
 making friends? Get money. All of a sudden, everyone wants to hang out with you! Awkward around 
 women? Out of shape? Use the Money Cheat and you're instantly The Man. It's that simple! No more 
 sweating or repeatedly lifting heavy hunks of iron dangerously over your skull. Like Apollo Creed 
 so wisely said: "Be a thinker, not a stinker."
  
  Then a fter all this success is achieved, with people simply throwing themselves in your general 
 direction, you face a new problem: What do you do with yourself? Life gets boring without a sense 
 of risk. And that, unfortunately, is exactly what happens in Playboy: The Mansion, a place where 
 you, as Hugh Hefner, can do no wrong. That makes a great life, but not a great game.
  
  The flow of Playboy is given to you step-by-step in a lenient, tutorial Mission Mode or you can 
 wing it in a Free Play Mode, though "Play" is term loosely applied. You must first choose up to 
 ten compatible people among celebrities, models, rock stars, pro athletes, or politicians. Social 
 engineering is inherantly a dull venture, since what you're doing is eliminating factors which 
 would contribute to chaosand chaos should be the fun part, especially in The Grotto! Thankfully, 
 you can have your assistant choose the ten most compatible people for you. She'll do a much better 
 job at picking them instantaneously anyway than you would with an hour to kill, so strike that 
 one off the "To Do" list.
  
  Once the incompatables are weeded out, you will throw one of your countless Playboy parties and 
 schmooze with the invites through Sims-esque dialog trees in a hunt for six types of content: Cover 
 Shot, Centerfold, Essay, Article, Pictorial, and Interview. At the mansion there are no dates or 
 times, and your job as The Uber Bachelor is to make sure your guests are happy, and that their 
 Sims-like drive meters are full. This means making introductions, leading them around the mansion 
 telling them to drink if they're bored, and talking to your guests about whatever they want to 
 talk about, since Hef has no drive meters of his own. Ol' selfless Hef just lives to make others 
 happy.
  
  When a person likes you, which will take all of five minutes, you can extract the content you were 
 really after. Now a game where throwing parties is the gameplay's core has a ton of promise, that 
 is if the parties don't suck. Slow dialog and character movement, redundant animations, and the 
 inability to multitask soon make parties a chore. Add on the limited object interactivity, and 
 the game's promise of fun is all just pillow talk. No "Do Body Shot" option at the Modern Bar?! 
 Unforgivable.
  
  There is a spark of "Yay" here and there, most of which involves having sex on a well-placed couch 
 in the middle of a crowded room, or taking pictures of the playmates as they go through multiple 
 poses using the furniture around them. As impossible as it seems, even taking pictures of topless 
 women gets tiresome after time, since the variation of the girls' appearances is quite limited. 
 Boob sizes, skin tone, and hair vary, but if you happen to be a butt man, you also happen to be 
 out of luck. Though you can swap their outfits at will, which is a bonus.
  
  The magazine content you'll get from your partygoers is dependant solely upon the character's profession 
 with the content quality determined by the relevant value of one of three meters: Physique, Charm, 
 or Intellect. It's a good foundation for a sim game, but Cyberlore must have designed this game 
 with the prepubescent and/or stupid in mind, since they removed all strategic or decision making 
 depth. Of the eight pictures you took for the Cover Shot, if you decide to use the one of the girl's 
 knee with dirt in the background, its still has the same quality rating as the good shots. Also, 
 if a runway model with a high Physique value who worships the ground you walk upon is your live-in 
 girlfriend, the dialog option of requesting a Centerfold doesn't even appear. She's just not the 
 right "profession." Or a Playmate who happens to have a PhD in Bioengineering cannot write an essay, 
 since, you know, hot women are dumb.
  
  Better content means a better mag, which you can sell at a higher price. Not that a rag with Butter 
 Bean's man-boobs on the cover won't sell for big bucks anyway. Hiring lame staff won't make much 
 of a difference either. It's really just impossible to fail. So "Strive for Better Content" is 
 also knocked off the To Do list for you.
  
  Every party is successful, every magazine sells well enough, and the Playmates - the incentive 
 to buy the game - do not get better physiques as you progress. Thus, what could have been true 
 open-ended strategic gameplay becomes a basic one-track, no-brains guided ride just for the hell 
 of it.
  
  The graphics, not surprisingly, are Playboy: The Mansion's best asset. The mansion, objects, people 
 and costumes are vibrant and well detailed. Though some of the furnishings' designs, like their 
 interactions, are rather uninspired. Hef, rather than walking with the stride of confidence we 
 imagine, looks like a hunchback. And naturally, the girls are sufficiently" ahem... bouncy.
  
  When you buy a stereo system, you are able to choose between a healthy selection of Jazz, Rock, 
 Techno, Flamenco, Industrial, and Hip-hop. No Grammy winners here, but they do the job well. The 
 dialog is primarily Simmish, with occasional bursts of English by the game's assistants imbued 
 with mediocre acting talent.
  
  A consequence-free game is not much of a game; it's more of a pastime, like curling or needlepoint. 
 Since there is little rush to put out a magazine, your focus shifts to what else you can do in 
 the mansion; and that's nada -- except go through the loop of party, socialize, and publish an 
 issue yet again. For a while, it is rather enjoyable to cruise by and experience the closest thing 
 you'll ever have to being anything like Hef, but you'll quickly long for deeper gameplay or a more 
 real sense of progression. Use that $50 on 3 years' worth of Playboy subscriptions instead. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ladel924
Rating: 6.3
Date: Dec 11, 2005 9:40 am PT
Review:  When i bought this game, I thought it would be Carolyn Wheeler hardcore caliber. However, the sex 
 in this game is barely better than Carolyn's. And the girl are not even that hot! I wanted to see 
 hot girls, like Linsdey Wheeler. Now, Lindsey is hot. I love how her fat slaps around when we play 
 football, and when she tackles a 250 pound man with one finger (approxmetley the same weight as 
 the man) . All I can say is "LINSDEY, WHERE WERE YOU WHEN THEY AMDE THIS GAME" They needed to model 
 the characters after you more chunky body, and therefore helping reduce annorexia. Also, they needed 
 you competitive instincts (NO, WE WON!) in the marketing, LAst, they needed you to stand up to 
 your abuse brother, and tell him no more! I will not be molested by you anymore! Then beat him 
 up, like you do to you dad. Then, marry me please!! I love you!!! For difficuly, I did not know 
 what to put so I just put how my weiner feels when I see Lindsey. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zozo99
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 27, 2005 7:00 am PT
Review:  I dont know about ya but this is a good game .realty games are fun. ya people are stupid and ya 
 dont have any taste .just like sims2 .the movies and. playboy: the mansion are good games i give 
 all a 10.0 well done directors. this game is not the best game i ever played because me i am a person 
 who like reality games. This is a perfect game for people who like nasty things and who like realty 
 games and stuff like me .but i dont like nasty stuff i like reality games so for ya people who 
 dont like this game must be crazy . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Typhoon89
Rating: 7.6
Date: Feb 10, 2005 6:00 pm PT
Review:  I saw this game on the Gamespot main page and saw the hype surrounding it so I decided to get it, 
 I haven't regretted it as suck but I do feel like I overpaid.
  It flawlessly installed so I started it up, after the 5 or so introduction movies I finally got 
 to a menu screen, oh dear, crash. I got a bit annoyed but I thought there may be a patch, wrong. 
 Thankfully the Gamespot Forums were a help and there was a solution, move/delete/rename the opening. wmv 
 file, yay I'm in.
  
  After walking around and interacting with people an objects, which wasn't too hard as I have years 
 of experience with The Sims, I discovered the Photo Shoot option. Yes, this game does have full 
 frontal nudity and you can take pictures of it. But... When I changed the clothing of my fine female 
 her hair came over her face, when I exited the shoot, hey, another crash! After a few more crashes 
 and boots the game stabilised and I could explore more features.
  
  Also, unlike The Sims there is no need to sleep, eat, bathe etc so you're awake 24/7, all this 
 adds to to remove any serious challenge in the game and after a while it gets very easy and repetitive.
 
  
  I mentioned good graphics quality and the sound is even better! The OST features bands I've actually 
 heard of, the first time it's happened in a game (other than the 2 newest GTA games and True Crime) , 
 I was surprised to hear All American Rejects whilst having a chat with Jose Conseco!
  
  Apart from the crashes it is a quite well-made game, the graphics are acceptable but a few things 
 that holds Playboy: The Mansion back is the instability and the fact you can't move away from Hef 
 (the main character) and explore other areas of the mansion.
  
  Overview: Wait for a patch & for the price to go down 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kenuty
Rating: 4.1
Date: Jan 30, 2005 6:15 am PT
Review:  I have just downloaded the game off Direct2Drive and quickly installed the game, Though the gameplay 
 was expected to be very much like The Sims but way easier and unchallenging. Here's Why
  
  Sound- The music is good, there are parts where if you install the stereosystem you can choose 
 from a variety of songs from hip hop to even old school rock, most of the time though theres no 
 music during the game without that stereosystem purchased at locations in the game and the only 
 time you hear any speeches are when your employees contact you on a new mission
  
  Graphics: Though very cool with the nudity and all the only problem was that even though each characters 
 or playmates looks different, when it comes to taking thier pics for photoshoots, The same 3d girl 
 is always involved except her hair or maybe her skin color is of different color, thats it they 
 all look the same in the photoshoot very big disappointment
  
  Gameplay: All you do is basically talk to your employees or playmates and try to fill up thier 
 bars which is a total bore, its too easy and you can even turn on the FAST FORWARD button and just 
 hit a random conversations and they agree with you almost all the time, once you fill up thier 
 bar you can have sex with them (which involves the girl gettin on top of you on some of the game 
 furnitures and dry humps you) . There is about 12 missions which can easily be rushed in less than 
 2 hours
  
  Value: The only good value out of 40 bucks on this game is the extras centerfolds and bonus materials 
 that you get after completing certain goals and recieving bonus points to unlock em
  
  overall: While the game is funny and can be entertaining to have fun with, only the most serious 
 of sims fans can handle this or those that enjoy watching sim like characters dry humping. other 
 than than that, your better off playing the sims 2 or actually using that 39.99 on a subscription 
 of playboy magazine itself. What a disappointing game too easy and just too cheesy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: davillain
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jan 29, 2005 11:44 am PT
Review:  I will honestly say that when I was going to buy this game, I was extremely excited. I think deep 
 down we all want to be Hef. Now that's said let get down to nitty gritty.
  
  The Good:
  
  Very easy (almost too easy)
  Good unlockables and rewards. You earn points for mission goals. 
 These points can be used to unlocked various articles, photos, and cheats!
  Great music (customizable, you can add your own)
  When comes to putting the magazine together 
 that is fun as well.
  No deadlines! No time constrains
  Ladies will get nude for you!
  Playboy Model: Petra Verkaik!!!
  Parties are fun
  Topless nudity
  Sex
  
  The Bad:
  
 The graphics are super basic. Almost bland
  The females in the game pretty much all look alike in the face.
  The controls are kinda weird 
 to get used too.
  Just topless nudity....
  Just topless nudity....
  JUST TOPLESS NUDITY!!! (Why bother with the 'M' Rating? They could have just blurred it out like 
 "The Sims 1 & 2" do it!
  
  The Ugly:
  This is the part that really killed me.....
  
  I kept hearing all about the game having a character editor. But that's just it an editor, not 
 a character creator! That's what this game needed! If I want to add Jenna Jameson or Aria Giovanni 
 or Ewa Sonnet. I have to take a premade character, change it's name and hair, clothes, skin tone 
 and body type. But that's it! You can't alter there personality, or change the face to best match 
 the girls you wish to create! That's ugly! Very Ugly.
  
  In the End:
  
  In the end I am still enjoying playing this game. There are somethings that annoy me about it, 
 but I am still having a good time with it. I think it really comes down to two questons. Do you 
 like the Playboy Magazine? Do you like Simulation games? If you say 'yes' you might want to give 
 this game a try. If not, well stick to your Halo 2 or whatever else you might play! 
  
  Peace out and things for reading my review! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
