-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Poker Superstars
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/puzzle/pokersuperstars/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Good, solid AI that does many of the things real poker players do.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 No real graphical presentation to speak of.
 Poker celebrity involvement is utterly meaningless.
 Ungodly terrible audio.
 The game insists on showing you the winning hand every time.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jul 12, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 4.9
Critic Score: 6.0, 1 Review (s)
User Score: 6.2, 34 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Funkitron
Developer: MumboJumbo
Genre: Casino
Date:     May 11, 2005
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
It's too bad that Poker Superstars' solid gameplay is wrapped in such a shallow, ugly package.

  Poker Superstars is yet another failure in a long line of licensed poker game failures. This one 
 is based on Fox Sports'  Poker Superstars Invitational Tournament , which you've probably seen 
 an awful lot of on TV lately. Unsurprisingly, publisher Funkitron has trotted out a number of pro 
 poker players to endorse the product and appear on the box and in the game, though the actual extent 
 of their in-game involvement was to let the developer put static images of them into the interface 
 as opponents, and nothing else. Also perhaps unsurprisingly, the game features a bargain-basement 
 design and interface that seems like it could have easily been downloaded in a hundred-megabyte 
 client from just about anywhere... and for free at that. However, there's one absolutely shocking 
 thing about Poker Superstars, and it's one that also makes this the most tragic poker game to date. 
 Namely, it's the first in a long line of budget-priced poker games to actually get opponent artificial 
 intelligence  right . When you play against any of Poker Superstars' computer-controlled opponents, 
 you feel like you're playing against someone who actually knows what the hell he or she is doing. 
 If that isn't a feat in and of itself in this day of slapdash, stump-dumb poker games, then nothing 
 is. It's just too bad this solid gameplay engine is wrapped in such a shallow, ugly package.  

 
          Poker Superstars takes eight of the top pro players in the world, puts static images of 
 them at a lousy-looking poker table, and makes them all play roughly the same.     

  Let's start with the good that Poker Superstars has to offer, which begins and ends with the gameplay. 
 The developer behind this game has finally managed to create an AI engine that makes some kind 
 of sense, without being overly predictable. AI opponents will slow-play hands, bully you with large 
 chip stacks, back off if they get the impressions that their hands aren't worth the bet, and even 
 throw in some bona fide bluffs from time to time. You can't call the AI overly challenging either, 
 but overall, the competition is thoroughly decent. However, as a pure learning tool, Poker Superstars 
 probably isn't your best bet, if only because the rigidity of the AI is such that you don't really 
 get a sense of the unpredictability that makes poker such a great game. Sure, there's a degree 
 of randomness to it, but it almost feels algorithmic in nature rather than genuinely random. Still, 
 it's fun AI to play against, just perhaps not the most educationally beneficial AI to play against. 

  Though the game features eight real-life names from the poker world, including Doyle Brunson, Phil 
 Ivey, Barry Greenstein, TJ Cloutier, Gus Hansen, Howard Lederer, Chip Reese, and Johnny Chan, none 
 of the opponents really seem to play much differently from one another. Maybe you'll notice some 
 subtle differences in betting philosophy, but it's so subtle that you probably won't. Then again, 
 considering none of the opponent characters animate, emote, or, really, do much of anything, it 
 might have been too hard to really get too deeply into the nuances of each player's style, since 
 you wouldn't be able to get any kind of reads off of them whatsoever. The engine is certainly great, 
 but the one supremely obnoxious thing that Poker Superstars' gameplay interface does -- and subsequently 
 is dragged down because of -- is show you the winning hand, no matter what, every single time. If 
 a guy goes all in on the flop and nobody bets against him, the game still tells you what he has, 
 which is a big no-no in the real poker world. Maybe this was done for instructional purposes, or 
 maybe just to keep people from throwing away fortunes just to know whether their opponents had 
 top pair. However, it isn't realistic.  

  While that's all well and good, Poker Superstars contains as much content as your typical shareware 
 client. The game presents you with a structure similar to the actual TV tournament in its season 
 mode. You play two different rounds, each with two preliminary rounds and a final round. The preliminary 
 rounds build up your chip count for the final round. At the end, you play one last final round 
 with the combined chip counts of the two previous final rounds, and then... nothing. Well, your 
 end chip count will be displayed on a leaderboard of sorts on the main menu screen, but that's 
 all. Another problem is that the entire season mode can be completed in about 25 minutes if you 
 know what you're doing. Inexperienced players might get a little more play time out of it simply 
 because they'll want to sit through all the hands they fold out of to try to learn a few things. 
 However, just about everyone else will be skipping through quickly, moving toward the end of the 
 game at a wholly brisk pace.  

  Apart from the season mode, there's a cash-game option with bet limits, a single-round mode where, 
 you guessed it, you play a single round, and that's the full extent of the package. There's no 
 multiplayer feature, online or otherwise, and there isn't even an opportunity to play any other 
 kinds of poker other than Texas hold 'em. For as good as the gameplay engine is, it isn't enough 
 by itself to sustain you beyond a few plays through the season mode. Ultimately, the game just 
 becomes tediously dull.  

          The game's AI is a major improvement over most of what's on the market today, but that 
 doesn't make Poker Superstars a compelling product all on its own.     

  It certainly doesn't help matters that Poker Superstars is presented about as well as a cell phone 
 game. It looks exactly like the kind of thing you'd download for free so you could play against 
 random people on the Internet, only you don't even get to do that. All you get at the table are 
 these square, low-res images of your opponents, a simple card interface, and nothing more. There's 
 no animation beyond the dealing of the cards. Not a single bell or whistle. The audio is just about 
 the worst thing in the world, consisting of just one really awful looping MIDI jazz song and a 
 scant couple of repetitive card-shuffling and chip-stacking sounds. Generally, the audio is best 
 left turned all the way down.  

  What inevitably ends up bringing down Poker Superstars is the same thing that's brought down most 
 every PC poker game released to date. Better options exist for free on the Internet, thus making 
 a $20 product like Poker Superstars completely irrelevant. Yes, the fact that the game's artificially 
 intelligent players actually play like real opponents would is a welcome change of pace. But why 
 would you need to pay for fake players that play like real players when you can just go find real 
 players for free online just about any time you like? Hopefully, you wouldn't. And you won't in 
 the case of Poker Superstars.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (4 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: AdmiralNorton
Rating: 4
Date: Jun 9, 2008 1:50 am PT
Review:  Poker Superstars is one in the line of nowadays very popular Texas Hold'em simulations. As its 
 name suggests, the main catch of the game are the professional poker players such as Gus Hansen 
 and Phil Ivey, that make their way into the game. The sad thing is that it's almost the only catch.
 
  
  The graphics and sound are the best thing about this game. The felt of an online-poker-like cardroom 
 table is a well-placed relief from the mostly ugly and disastrous 3D simulations of real casino 
 poker tables. The sound of stacking chips and betting by selecting chips adds to the live poker 
 feel. With a standard 2D interface, the game doesn't look outdated not even compared to today's 
 poker simulations. The only downside is an annoying melody playing in the background all the time.
 
  
  Single-player is pretty much uneventful. The tournament campaign consists of two rounds of semi-finals 
 and a final and, as a relief, there is also a cash game. When using the right strategy, it is too 
 easy to beat the game. The fixed icons of the poker pros around the table relieve you of having 
 fun through spotting tells, which ultimately kills any gaming experience which could have existed.
 
  
  AI is the dirty spot in Poker Superstars. I got the game long before I became proficient at online 
 poker. As someone whose knowledge about Texas Hold'em rested on the belief that a straight beats 
 a flush, the game looked fine to me. I even picked it out as difficult since I was losing all the 
 time, until I found the game wasn't fool-proof. A simple "bluff, bluff and only bluff" all-in approach 
 made the game mindlessly easy.
  
  Later on, as I found this game on a shelf a few months ago, I analyzed the strategy from the point-of-view 
 of a no-limit poker player: all tables in the game are total "rock gardens" (full of predictable 
 players) , all tight-passive. The lack of a random crazy fish makes the play even more boring. Players 
 are using basic strategy (such as all-in with AA) , not taking into account the occasional (better 
 say: rare) slowplay, predictable bluff and the lack of continuance bets. I find play money tables 
 harder to beat than these games.
  
  What do we have here... Texas Hold'em, Texas Hold'em and Texas Hold'em. No 7-card Stud, no Omaha8, 
 no Cali Triple Draw, no nothing. In the small repertoire of the game there aren't any side games 
 available for entertainment when you get bored of Hold'em. Though, I'd hate to wonder what would 
 the AI of a side game look like, considering how was it done in the "cadillac of poker".
  
  The multiplayer is one of the major aspects Poker Superstars lacks. It is actually not present, 
 nor LAN, nor internet. I'd have at least some comfort playing against random internet players for 
 free money, if not organizing virtual tournaments for friends, but it's simply not an option.
 
  
  Finally, has anyone heard of a showdown after everyone folds? Of course not. If possible, every 
 good poker player prefers to keep his hand to himself. In this game, even after a series of folds, 
 you get to see the blind stealer's hand. This definitely puts the last nail in the coffin.
  
  Summary - Graphics and gameplay are thumbs up, but that's about it. Since the Gamespot review 
 presents the Poker Superstars' AI as tough and good, I wonder what are other AIs like. Texas Hold'em 
 has a long time to come even near the level of grandmaster computer chess and Deep Blue. In the 
 meantime, I'll stick to real poker players. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: calicow
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 14, 2006 5:54 pm PT
Review:  What I really like about Poker Superstars is how you could play a game of cards against table full 
 of legendary poker players with impressive resumes. One thing that I must say about the game is 
 that the first time I played it, I felt a little intimidated playing the computer version of the 
 poker pros. But after a few hands of playing, it was easy to read the computer version of the players.
 
  
  Another thing that I like about the game is the graphics. It's like actually sitting at a poker 
 table inside a casino, with the sound of the chips being stacked in front of you or being pushed 
 into the middle of table to call a bet or to raise. 
  
  In all, I find Poker Superstars to be a very fun game to play. If you to play poker, or any kind 
 of card game, I would highly recommend getting this game to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nycraider56
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 14, 2005 7:34 pm PT
Review:  This is a solid game with a good feature, the speed up. When you fold out you can speed up the 
 hand. Its also a pleasure to see the whole table. This feature beats out other poker games where 
 you move person to person, and they try to say things that only end up repeating after a few hand 
 plays. My only few points to change would be to have more players, and selectible skill levels, 
 and instead of making the game tedious by moving from person to person, have the player picture 
 boxes bigger and have their facial expressions in the boxes, this way you can keep the whole table. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wakka_Wakka14
Rating: 1
Date: Jul 13, 2005 11:41 pm PT
Review:  I paid for this expecting something decent. The game failed miserably.
  dddd dddd dddd dddd dddd dddd dddd dddd dddd dddd dddd dddd dddd dddd dddd dddd dddd dddd dddd 
 dddd dddd dddd dddd dddd dddd dddd dddd dddd dddd dddd dddd dddd dddd dddd dddd dddd dddd dddd 
 dddd dddd dddd dddd dddd dddd dddd dddd dddd dddd dddd dddd dddd dddd dddd dddd dddd dddd dddd 
 dddd dddd dddd dddd dddd dddd dddd dddd dddd dddd dddd dddd dddd dddd dddd dddd dddd dddd dddd 
 dddd dddd dddd dddd dddd dddd dddd dddd dddd dddd dddd dddd dddd dddd dddd dddd dddd dddd dddd 
 dddd dddd dddd dddd dddd dddd dddd dddd dddd dddd dddd dddd dddd dddd dddd dddd dddd dddd dddd 
 dddd dddd dddd dddd dddd dddd dddd dddd dddd dddd dddd dddd dddd dddd dddd 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
