-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Police Quest: SWAT
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/policequestswat/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: May  1, 1996
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 3.7
Critic Score: 3.7, 4.6 Review (s)
User Score: 4.6, 206 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Sierra Entertainment
Genre: Strategy
Date:     Sep 30, 1995

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
SWAT begins with an interesting premise, but the designers seem to have paid too much attention 
 to detail in the wrong areas. 

 Attaching the Police Quest moniker to this game may be misleading to long-time fans of the series. 
 Police Quest: SWAT is not an adventure game, but an attempt to simulate the experience of being 
 a Special Weapons and Tactics team member. Unfortunately, the designers, under the guidance of 
 former LA Police Chief Daryl Gates, seem to have aimed for realism in all the wrong places.  

 
 Most of your game time is spent at the various SWAT training facilities, honing your marksmanship 
 skills while waiting to be "called up" on assignment. For the most part, these training areas are 
 no more than point-and-click shooting games, mighty boring and plenty repetitive. Even more frustrating 
 is the fact that they do little to prepare you for actual assignments and are included only, it 
 seems, to simulate the typical day of a SWAT member.  

 In the actual missions, any pretense of realism is discarded. With only a few commands and an inadequate 
 communication system at your disposal, missions are more like restrictive puzzles than strategic 
 simulations. The linear structure simply requires the player to execute a predetermined set of 
 actions, but it is never quite clear what those actions are. When the mission is over, it's hard 
 to tell whether it was completed correctly or not. Adding to this confusion, each scenario is repeated 
 more than once, each time closing with a different outcome, but never with any justification for 
 the inconsistencies.  

 On top of everything, SWAT is burdened by one of the most cumbersome interfaces ever devised. Figuring 
 out what to do in this game is difficult enough, but the poor design makes figuring out how to 
 do it nearly impossible.  

 SWAT begins with an interesting premise, but the designers seem to have paid too much attention 
 to detail in the wrong areas. Humdrum tasks are too prevalent, and the areas which could have been 
 truly intriguing are simply confusing and frustrating.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (7 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Serpens6
Rating: 3
Date: Feb 16, 2009 4:50 pm PT
Review:  I will go on record and say that I love Swat 3 and it is a fantastic tactical shooter, albeit not 
 as much consequence as it should but that's another review. So I went into the original Swat with 
 decent expectations but realistically lowered due to the fact Gamespot and others rated it pretty 
 low. Also it held the aura of an FMV game which, if you don't know, is not a good thing. And now 
 onto to the breakdown of this game known as Police Quest Swat from Darryl F. Gates. 
  
  The story of this game is basically you are new Swat recruit and are now beginning to prep for 
 a callup. A "callup" is when you actually go out on missions. This preparation is the majority 
 of the game unless you tweak the settings which will increase the frequency of said calls. What 
 this phase consists of is point and click shooting exercises that will get you ready for the real 
 gameplay of this title. That is a total lie as you will barely shoot people and use of deadly force 
 is generally looked down upon; this all ties into the "realism" of the game. You can also prep 
 up to travel down the path of being a Swat sniper where you do get to shoot people like in the 
 training. However there is math that is necessary to pull of a good shot. 
  
  The gameplay in this game is there, sort of. The gameplay interface is this really unappealing 
 point and click interface vaguely reminiscent of an adventure game, except it's a train wreck. 
 The reason I call it a train wreck is that it will take multiple clicks to use pretty much anything. 
 The multiple facets of the interface are as follows, LASH (a way to communicate with your team 
 members) , Slice the Pie (you learn about this in the training phase, it's basically a way to approach 
 a corner) , various tools in your inventory which can take multiple clicks to get through) , and 
 the usual menus for saving and quitting. Most of this stuff works but will create a good amount 
 of frustration due to the fact you don't know what you need to do half the time even if you sit 
 through two hours of reading and listening to game's extensive procedure tutorials. I also get 
 the sinking suspicion that the developers were trying to create a new type of frustration genre 
 as this game will get monks with vows of silence cursing. Also this game only has 3 missions to 
 perform with different variants and a completely different perspective if you are a sniper. There 
 is also no clear and discernible ending and you will repeat the first mission guaranteed, which 
 if you hadn't known this like me, will confuse you. My first thought in relation to that was," 
 Why did we not arrest this lady, she's clearly a danger!"
  The graphics don't have much needed to be said, it's grainy FMV. It does the job and the acting 
 isn't too bad, although unintentionally funny at times. The music is alright as it is appropriate 
 to the environment and situation and sometimes is melodramatic. 
  
  Now due to the age of this game there are some complications with playing it on a new computer. 
 It works on new systems if you use the windows installer, the dos version will need to be played 
 in the dosbox. The game consists of 4 discs and comes with a manual that outlines equations for 
 shooting distance and the drop loss of the bullet (only necessary if you want to be a sniper) . 
 The game does require switching out of the discs and disc 1 will cause a problem where it will 
 seem that the game has frozen, but be patient and then the autorun will finish and then the game 
 can be played again (adds more to the annoyance factor but that will really only a problem the 
 first time you switch back to disc 1) . Also due to the fact that this game runs in a window it 
 will not be full screen unless you change the desktop resolution. For people interested in the 
 history of the Swat series all you will find is a new appreciation of the squad commands of the 
 later games and deep knowledge of police procedure, gun history, Swat terminology, and be able 
 to calculate a dead-on headshot on Zakhaev only to see his arm get blown off anyways. Beyond all 
 that, if none of that sounds interesting, which I don't blame you, pass this game up! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: thegodfatherIV
Rating: 4.8
Date: Aug 6, 2008 2:00 am PT
Review:  Police Quest: SWAT... not all that great. Well first off you have to realize that this game was 
 made back, way back in 1995 when computer games were still in absolute infancy. This particular 
 game lets you take control of a rookie LAPD SWAT Officer named Pup. At the beginning of the game, 
 you must pass a series of tests or obstacles to be able to qualify for a spot on a SWAT team. You'll 
 be able to be a sniper, an assaulter, and a team leader. Doesn't sound TOO bad... right? Wrong
 
  
  I forgot to mention, there are no "graphics" in this game. It's all FMV, or full motion video, 
 which displays pre-recorded video and real people. It's just like watching a movie, I guess. Really, 
 it's not good at all. 
  
  Throughout the game, you will be "called up" to three... yes 3... different situations. You will 
 have to enter a resident home to retrieve a hysterical old woman, depending on chance you will 
 either get her with a gun and have to either shoot her or talk her down or she will be scared and 
 you take her with no problem. Another scenario takes you to an abandoned wearhouse where an armed 
 man has taken refuge, and has shot an LAPD officer. You will breach and enter the wearhouse, and 
 depending on chance you will either get the guy holding a hostage in which you will have to take 
 him out or you get the guy by himself and talk him down. The final scenario lets you take the position 
 of a SWAT Sniper in which you will have to monitor terrorists in an office building. Again, depending 
 on chance, they will either be hostile and kill a hostage or the SWAT assault team on the ground 
 will breach and take them out. In the latter part of the game you will take command of that Assault 
 Team as the team leader. This is the ABSOLUTE ridiculous part of the game. You will have to order 
 commands via LASH headset to guide your team in and around the office building. YOU WILL NOT complete 
 this part without some sort of guide or walkthrough from the internet, trust me. Any wrong move, 
 action, or command will have repurcusions and you will be forced to redo the mission. Ridiculous, 
 impossible to say the least.
  
  All in all, a 4/10 in my books... the 4 points given purely because the game caries the name "Police 
 Quest", one of the best police video game series of all time. And because it has great music in 
 the end credits. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: garey017
Rating: 3
Date: Feb 5, 2008 9:05 am PT
Review:  This is the only game in the Police Quest series that I didn't absolutely love. As a matter of 
 fact, I completely hated it. This was basically the transition game from the old point & click 
 Police Quest adventure games into the current tactictal shooter type game, although this would 
 hardly qualify as a tactical shooter. I'm not sure exactly what this game would qualify as, other 
 than a total let down. I couldn't figure out what to do, and if you make one wrong click it's game 
 over. The controls are really bad, you basically click what you want your person to do, then you 
 lose all control as the action plays out. You have to click on the right spot, or you screw up 
 & die or kill an innocent person. It's basically trial and error. The SWAT games since this one 
 have been huge improvements (except maybe SWAT 2, I don't remember that one) . But if you're a Police 
 Quest fan that wants to go back and play all the old games, leave this one off your list, it will 
 only disappoint. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: steel_strings
Rating: 1.7
Date: Jun 15, 2007 2:34 pm PT
Review:  This might actually be the worst game I've ever played. It is without doubt the most disappointing 
 game I have ever played. The worst part is you have no idea what to do. There is no hint guide 
 or anything and the slightest wrong move results in failure. Too difficult to be fun. I never got 
 past the first mission and after a few tries, I didn't care to. The idea of being a sniper would 
 be cool if you weren't literally waiting around in real time to be called up for a mission. I think 
 this takes a simulation way too far. Unless the developers are willing to pay me to be on call. 
 Gaming is supposed to escape reality. If I wanted boredom, I'd go to work. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ccooke
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 15, 2007 7:32 pm PT
Review:  This is one of my favourite games mainly because of its authenticy and realism. Now I can only 
 really reccomend this to Police buffs because you do ndeed have to sit through lessons on how to 
 perfrom different actions that can go on for sometimes 10 minutes. Alot of the game is spent training 
 and honing your skills at Metro waiting for a call up. This is much like a real day in the life 
 of a S. W. A. T. officer, and I personally really liked that paticular aspect though it can be a little 
 annoying sometimes. You begin as a nameless rookie SWAT Pup who has just arrived at Metro ready 
 for action. All the graphics are filmed scenarios which is really awsome, I think this is the first 
 game I've seen do that, (well except for Police Quest 4) . When you do finally get a call up a mission 
 usually starts with you intrviewing nearby civilians while waiting for your briefing. Once your 
 Element leader Rooker lays everything out for you and you team, you will begin the mission. The 
 missions are very strange in that you will have absolutely no idea just what the f*ck you are supposed 
 to do., Once you figure that out though things will progress a little and you can go onto blasting 
 and bustong suspects. Its basically set up like a flight simulator where everything is pretty damn 
 complicated but after a while youll get the hang of it.
  
  I would not reccomend this t shooter fans as this is no Doom or Halo. You must follow your Element 
 leaders orders or youll be sent back to Metro to coninue- you guessed it, More training!!!
  Police buffs will love this but shooter or straight stratagy fans may not enjoy the ride as much 
 as the true fanatics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Holtke4987
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 13, 2006 5:17 am PT
Review:  Police Quest: Swat is one of the best games I have ever played on PC. I know its not the greatest 
 game in the world but it still ranks near the top of my list. I am a big strategy guy and so this 
 game fits my taste perfectly. I really like how you can see the whole stage and how it is not a 
 first person shooter. I really would reccomend this game to anyone looking for a fun and easy game 
 to play. I don't know how the other Swat games are because I have yet to play them. I also like 
 how if you don't want to be on the SWAT side you can join the Terrorists and play as one of them 
 doing different missions. This game like I said is right there at the top of my most favorite games 
 list!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MUherd14
Rating: 3.5
Date: Feb 1, 2006 3:44 pm PT
Review:  Sometimes I wonder what could have been.......
  
  When I bought this game I was very excited. I though anything by serria... and had to do with Police 
 Quest, had to be great. Well everynow and then a great company does make a mistake.
  
  Graphics: This was made during the Full motion video craze. Depending on your views, the graphics 
 could be a 10/10 or a .5/10. Well i'm toward the latter on this one. I feel that the pictures become 
 pixilated and muddy. The more movement in the game the worse it gets. Although in defense of the 
 FMV, it does what it is supposed to, which raises the score slightly.
  
  Music: Bland repetitive trite. They could have done alot more with this. The only good music is 
 when they play a bagpipe version of Amazing Grace when you die.
  
  Gamplay: Bad..... really bad. The Headset doesn't work right. Sniping is much worse than anything 
 in real life. And guess what? You get to spend hours at the practice range. YAY!!!!!! That and 
 after you get the crazy grandma, you get to get her again. And don't kill her... you will get fired... and 
 no one wants poor "Swat Pup" to lose his job.
  
  Fun: At first the game is fun, but once you get into the meat of the game.... you notice its terrible 
 and no fun at all. 
  
  Overall I reccomend Swat 2 or 3... they are much better than this 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
