-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Police Quest: SWAT 2
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/policequestswat2/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Aug 13, 1998
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.7
Critic Score: 7.0, 15 Review (s)
User Score: 6.4, 303 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Sierra Entertainment
Developer: Yosemite Ent.
Genre: Real-Time Strategy
Date:     Jun 30, 1998 &raquo;  

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
SWAT 2 could have been filled with nail-biting intensity and adrenaline-pumping action; instead, 
 it's composed of a frustrating command system and messy gameplay. 

 If you ask an average gamer to explain the focus of real-time strategy games you'll probably be 
 told that the two most important elements are resource management and building a better combat 
 force than your foe. With few exceptions, that's been the rule ever since Westwood's Dune II. What 
 most people don't realize is that the real-time strategy game goes as far back as the original 
 home computers. Combat Leader and NATO Commander were both golden age real-time games, focusing 
 on managing troops in real time without concerning themselves with resource gathering. Real time 
 creates a realistic situation where you must assess and react to threats instantaneously, a perfect 
 setting for tactical simulations. It causes you to be proactive and to be constantly thinking, 
 which is exactly what Sierra's SWAT 2 aims for, and, sometimes, it hits the mark. For the most 
 part, though, SWAT 2 simply shoots itself in the foot.  

 Don't fret if you remember the first SWAT; SWAT 2 only shares the name of that horrid FMV affair. 
 SWAT 2 is a 30-scenario real-time strategy game, which can be played either as SWAT or a terrorist 
 organization. In addition to the scenarios, multiplayer is of course supported, and a multiplayer 
 map editor has been included.   

 The 30 scenarios are divided into 15 scenarios for each side, and each scenario begins with a short 
 animated video. The video is essentially your briefing for the upcoming scenario and gives you 
 an idea of what your team will be facing. Scenarios for SWAT involve everything from riot control 
 to snipers, while the terrorist side sees you starting the riots and ambushing the police. After 
 that you can create your teams that will participate in the scenario. There is a large selection 
 of officers and terrorists to choose from, and, thanks to the multiple means of filtering information, 
 picking the right one is a snap. Finally you equip your teams. The SWAT player has it easier with 
 equipment, thanks to unlimited acquisition, while the terrorist player must make do with a limited 
 stockpile. Once that is done, the scenario proper begins, as do the problems.  

 The first glaring problem is that some scenarios will have your officers ill equipped to handle 
 the situation. While perfect intelligence would not be realistic, you should be told if you'll 
 need something special, such as repelling equipment, but some scenarios wait until you enter them 
 before you find out that interesting tidbit. Time to restart and reequip.   

 If you have the right equipment, the scenario proceeds. The graphics are good, but the sound effects 
 are only decent, and there's a decided lack of ambient sounds. The gameplay itself is a chaotic 
 mess. Close Combat shows how much fun a tactical game can be in real time. By creating a player-hostile 
 environment, SWAT 2 only shows you how much fun Close Combat can be.  

 Since SWAT 2 prides itself on creating a game in which violence is not the key, you simply can't 
 go in and gun everyone down unless you're playing the terrorist side. But for some reason your 
 officers rarely have a clue on following proper police procedure unless you nursemaid them. Making 
 this more problematic is the fact that nonviolent actions are the hardest to accomplish in SWAT 
 2. Here's a prime example: An officer spots a suspect with a gun lowered. You start by challenging 
 the suspect. You hit the hotkey and then move the cursor over the suspect. The suspect aims at 
 the officer. Since this is all happening in real time you need to quickly switch to firing mode 
 and shoot first. Since the computer doesn't have to fumble with hotkeys or icons, more than likely 
 that officer is leaving in a body bag. All this could be avoided if your officer could do those 
 actions immediately and automatically within sight of a suspect. One way it could have been handled 
 is to assign stances to the officers that would dictate how they react to threats. Instead the 
 game moves far too quickly while you're fumbling to issue orders.  

 SWAT 2 manages to drop a concussion grenade at its feet with the length of gameplay. The average 
 scenario (not counting team selection time) takes anywhere from one minute to five, with a few 
 possibly extending to eight or nine minutes. Sure it's realistic, but consider the fact that the 
 entire game can be played out in under three hours. Even if you replay each one until you get it 
 perfect, expect only about five to six hours of play. Compare that with any other real-time strategy 
 game on the market. And no, multiplayer doesn't add that much life to it. Those scenarios are over 
 just as quick and usually end up being nothing more than a laggy bloodbath.  

 SWAT 2 could have been filled with nail-biting intensity and adrenaline-pumping action; instead, 
 it's composed of a frustrating command system and messy gameplay. The designers of SWAT 2 really 
 missed the boat by choosing to use real time. As a turn-based game it could have been a winner. 
 If nothing else, at least it would have lasted longer.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (8 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: MagnumPI
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 20, 2007 2:20 am PT
Review:  It's basically like police quest 1-3 except the player commands a SWAT team. It's like the original 
 Command &amp; conquer exepet the SWAT members are on a departmental roster and they each have a 
 profile and career record. Much like a real SWAT team the player has a budget. The player must 
 spend wisely before sending operators through training courses. The player must also take care 
 when purchasing tools for the team, such as guns and other equipment. Next partition Members into 
 squads or elements. Players will need at least one entry team if not more to start. Eventually 
 assignment will require multiple entry teams. You'll also need trailer teams, containment teams, 
 breaching teams, and a sniper teams. You will only have so much equipment and men with advanced 
 training throughout the game. As the game progresses your roster recieves more training and you 
 get more money so you have more highly skilled members &amp; more equipment to use. The more men 
 you get killed the less trained men you have. This game suffers from being released at the wrong 
 time. Late 80s early 90s it would have been a hit, but late 90's was too late and today it's just 
 vintage. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fjell666
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 22, 2007 9:00 am PT
Review:  Forget leakybubbles and his horrible review for this game which prompted me to write my own, THIS 
 GAME IS NOT A SHOOTER. With that aside, I used to play the older police quests and this game bears 
 the title... I dont know why, its not an Adventure game. But it is a fun tactical game, you dont 
 run around shooting everything, you take your time, try and save the hostages and catch the badguys.
 
  
  You can also play the Terrorist side, taking hostages and fending off swat, maybe you wanna try 
 and negotiate with them, getaway vehicles, money.. but the longer you hang around the more time 
 swat has to surround the building and take you out.
  
  I have had some problems with this game, its not perfect... pathfining can be a pain as it usually 
 is. Theres more but enough writing, time to play some SWAT 2!
  
  I recommend this game to anyone who is into real time tactical strategy.
  
  BELIEVE IT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bruno-K
Rating: 7.6
Date: Aug 1, 2007 1:48 pm PT
Review:  SWAT 2 is actually a great game. The gameplay is messed up, I agree... but this is countered with 
 the superb theme and game presentation.
  
  First of all you make up a team with some officers, each one has its very own attributes (these 
 that can be upgraded) , making the game seems to be like a RPS (Role-Playing-Strategy) . This is 
 not a FPS, there's a stupid guy who thought it was one and bought/download, after discovering so 
 idiot he was, he gave this game a bad review. =/ Hahaha.
  
  The graphics are bad... but **** yourself haters, this is a game from 1998! By the time is was 
 truly great.
  
  Sound is OK, firearms sounds good... The dialogue between the characters is a very strong point. 
 You'll hear the team leader talk to his team, the team responses and receive further instruction 
 from the primary SWAT negotiator, in the Dialogue box. As I said the gameplay could be better and 
 the interface more user-friendly, guess it was the game main flaw.
  
  This is a great game, old... with few problems. Play if you like the theme or the genre, or is 
 a SWAT/CT buff. If you play only great graphics games or don't like a Strategy game (or don't have 
 the brain for it, preferring clicking instead of thinking) drive thru. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Leakybubbles
Rating: 2.5
Date: Dec 14, 2007 3:51 pm PT
Review:  It could of been something if it was first person or actualy had fun in it.
  
  lol this game is so bad don\'t even buy it to make fun of it..
  
  gosh this game is terrible..
 
  
  doesn\'t even deserve a mediocre.
  
  WHAT THE HECK WERE THEY THINKING
  
  this game is absolutely aweful lol i could laugh at it forever.
  
  graphics are just kinda 
 like command and conquer so thats the only good thing they got going for this game...
  
  sound lol pretty much dun dun dun dun
  
  you get so excited about choosing ur weapon and think 
 its first person but its a crappy game terrible... not fun at all............
  
  little 2d things moving around doing nothing at all LOL
  
  of course i only played it for a 
 few minutes so maybe im complety wrong. meh my first inpressions sucked for me so ide say don't 
 buy it. seriously there are ALOT of better games
  
  but don't buy this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ccooke
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 14, 2007 6:17 pm PT
Review:  Ok so maybe its not THE ONLY authentic Poilce sim, because theres a couple. Nevertheless this one 
 was still pretty damn realistic though, if tour looking for a tactical shooter, or just a shooter 
 in general, this might not be the tour of duty you were expecting. Police Quest SWAT 2 puts you 
 in command of a elite SWAT force of your choosing. You get hand pick the officers for each position 
 from a 100% real roster, no s*it, these are actual SWAT officers your commanding here. Not only 
 do you have control over your officers but you can also call in observation choppers and even an 
 armored SWAT van. The graphics are standard stratagy game fare. top down view dosent leave much 
 room for individual character detail, but the Police and suspects still look pretty good. The sound 
 dosent fall short either as there are lots of good quality voice work and suspensful music to keep 
 you immersed. The gameplay is straragy pased though the shooting is done manually which is really 
 cool. There are many different weapons to choose from as well as gas masks and different types 
 of body armor such as Kevlar and Flak jackets. There is alot of trial and error no doubt and suspects 
 can sometimes be hard to see being how small everything is, so sometimes you can spend a great 
 deal of time tryig to find that one guy you need to arrest. m Overall this is a pretty good Police 
 sim and a good mix of Stratagy and shooting action. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: guardianNJ
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 12, 2006 7:59 am PT
Review:  People, this game is released in 1998.... so thats almost about 9 years back?
  Ive played this game over and over because it was just a good game!
  I don't see why this game 
 is low rated cuz i had lots of fun. Not always, but mostly yes.
  Its not a game like we have now in 2006... but its not bad!
  Not if you tried the whole game.
 
  
  You can play as SWAT or Terrorist.
  As a terrorist you can make demands like asking food or an escape car.. Have hostages etc.
  As 
 swat you have up to 20 men, five men teams, snipers, dogs to solve the whole situation.
  Yes its not as good as a strategic game is now, but still its worth trying if youre looking for 
 a nice classic swat game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Defender_502
Rating: 5.5
Date: Oct 4, 2006 1:01 pm PT
Review:  Police Quest: SWAT 2 put the player in charge of a team of SWAT operators, in their quest to rid 
 their city of crime.
  
  The player had the ability to customize his team based upon the mission at hand; numerous SWAT 
 operators were available, each with different abilities and armament.
  
  The player controlled his team through an overhead perspective. The SWAT team members could be 
 moved individually, or as a group. The player had to develop a good plan to defeat the enemy, especially 
 since the AI was well-developed.
  
  Police Quest: SWAT 2 could be considered a precursor to the team-oriented games of today, such 
 as Tom Clancy's Rainbow Six, but it wasn't nearly as well-developed. The controls were clunky, 
 and the command controls were poorly designed. Police Quest: SWAT 2 was one of the final games 
 in Sierra Entertainment's Police Quest series, and for good reason; the whole series, including 
 Police Quest: SWAT 2, had good intentions, but wasn't well executed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andch17
Rating: 3.5
Date: May 14, 2006 9:50 pm PT
Review:  Shooter fans have had some great games released recently, Goldeneye 007. the Rainow six games are 
 solid, but Swat 2 is an embarresment to shooting games. It is a joke of a game and is the last 
 game a shooter fan should even consider buying.
  
  First of all, the game's gamplay is a mess and very frustrating, it could've been an instense game 
 that could'be been pretty good but it ended up being terrible. The game plays out badly, the controls 
 aren't good, and the command system in the game is very disgraceful. Out of all this the graphics 
 are probably the best thing about the game, but the graphics aren't revolutionary so they won't 
 make you come back to the game. The game's sound is pretty horrid and is another thing that brings 
 this game down. The game has a lot scenarios, 30 to be exact, 15 for each side (terroritst and 
 SWAT) . But since the game isn't that good you'll probably quit playing this game before you're 
 able to finish the campaign.
  
  This game coud've been an intense nail-bitter strategy game and could've been pretty decent. But 
 SWAT 2 will be remembered as a game that could've been a lot better but ended up being a messy 
 waste of time. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
