-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Pool of Radiance: Ruins of Myth Drannor
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/rpg/poolofradianceruinsomd/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct  1, 2001
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.3
Critic Score: 6.0, 22 Review (s)
User Score: 6.3, 403 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ubisoft
Developer: Stormfront Studios
Genre: Computer Role-Playing
Date:     Sep 24, 2001 &raquo;  
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The game is primarily an uninspired dungeon crawl, burdened by repetitive gameplay, a cumbersome 
 interface, and some serious technical issues. 

 While most early computer role-playing games were essentially crude, unauthorized adaptations of 
 pen-and-paper Dungeons &amp; Dragons, computer gamers weren't granted the opportunity to play a 
 sanctioned translation of D&amp; D until the 1988 release of Pool of Radiance. Pool of Radiance 
 was an ambitious, pioneering game that offered an effective combination of first-person-perspective 
 exploration and tactical combat from an isometric perspective. It spawned the acclaimed "gold box" 
 series of D&amp; D games, which is still mentioned reverentially by RPG fans. Given that pedigree, 
 it's surprising that the design for its belated spin-off is so lacking in ambition. Pool of Radiance: 
 Ruins of Myth Drannor features some good graphics and a decent adaptation of D&amp; D's turn-based 
 tactical combat, but the game is primarily an uninspired dungeon crawl, burdened by repetitive 
 gameplay, a cumbersome interface, and some serious technical issues.           Ruins of Myth Drannor 
 mostly consists of turn-based tactical combat.    

  Ruins of Myth Drannor doesn't attempt to provide an expansive gaming world or varied gameplay. 
 Instead, as the name suggests, the game is almost entirely set within the labyrinthine ruins of 
 the ancient city of Myth Drannor, and gameplay primarily consists of tactical combat interrupted 
 by brief spelunking interludes. Myth Drannor is one of the most famous cities in D&amp; D's Forgotten 
 Realms milieu, and early in the game's design the developers indicated that they were going to 
 incorporate existing maps and other source material from tabletop D&amp; D to flesh out environments. 
 Those plans were either changed or significantly reduced in scope, since the game's dungeon layouts 
 are simplistic and largely devoid of distinctive features. There are very few nonplayer characters 
 to interact with, and no depth to your interactions with those characters. Since the skeletal plot 
 is completely linear and there are no meaningful opportunities to role-play characters of varying 
 alignments or motivations, the emphasis of the game is almost exclusively on tactical combat.  

  Many RPGs are combat intensive, but combat is virtually the entire focus of Ruins of Myth Drannor. 
 Although this will disappoint those who were hoping for a more substantial RPG, at least the battles 
 can be engaging, even if repetitive. While last year's Baldur's Gate II plucked a few elements 
 from the new D&amp; D 3rd Edition rules, Ruins of Myth Drannor is the first game to attempt to comprehensively 
 adapt those rules. The combat and movement aspects of the rules were adapted relatively faithfully, 
 so you can maneuver your characters to flank opponents, charge distant enemies, or be positioned 
 to make attacks of opportunity against nearby foes that attempt to cast spells. The turn-based 
 nature of Ruins of Myth Drannor also lets you more effectively cast spells than you could in the 
 frantic, dynamic real-time skirmishes of recent D&amp; D games, and the game's interface highlights 
 each spell's proposed area of effect to facilitate precise targeting. Still, the fights in Ruins 
 of Myth Drannor lack the complexity of Baldur's Gate II's mage duels and the variety of tactical 
 options offered by other turn-based combat games, such as Jagged Alliance 2. You'll also fight 
 each of the game's various monster types hundreds of times, and there's little variety to these 
 engagements, once you master a few rudimentary tactical maneuvers.   

  The initial design for the game contemplated letting characters interact with a variety of objects 
 in the gaming world. Early press materials for the game promised that characters would be able 
 to tip over tables, push crates, block doors, climb objects, and otherwise interact with the environment 
 to thwart opponents or gain tactical advantages. A variety of objects did make it into the game, 
 but you can't do anything with them other than smash them. But unlike games such as Diablo that 
 similarly stock their environments with breakable objects, there's almost never anything contained 
 in the barrels, boxes, and tables scattered through the dungeon levels. Yet since your progress 
 is dependent on finding a few key items, you'll likely be motivated by fear that you'll miss a 
 vital item, or frustration when you can't find a particular one, to waste time fruitlessly smashing 
 hundreds of hapless pieces of furniture.           An automap feature helps you navigate the game's 
 winding corridors.    

  There are other indications that suggest the developers were either unsure of the type of game 
 that they wanted to make or were unable to adequately test their ideas. As in many hack-and-slash 
 RPGs, your characters will acquire a mountain of gold and items, but that loot is almost valueless 
 in Ruins of Myth Drannor, since there's almost no opportunity to actually spend your wealth. The 
 dungeons are overflowing with healing potions and scrolls, and yet you can just rest to immediately 
 recover all hit points and spells, making the utility of those items questionable. The game even 
 highlights when you can rest without any fear of interruption, and a safe haven is almost always 
 available every few steps. The ability to freely rest at almost any time also makes spellcasters 
 far more powerful than in other D&amp; D games, since there's no reason to conserve your available 
 spells when you can easily recover them after every combat.   

  The game's menu-driven interface is cumbersome, at least until you assign hotkeys to each character's 
 frequent actions. For instance, to use a magic item, you have to first either press "I" on your 
 keyboard, or right-click on a character to bring up a menu of items and then select the inventory 
 tab, and then you have to further select the magic tab to bring up a list of carried magic items, 
 and finally select the desired item. As if that weren't burdensome enough, if you didn't use the 
 same item in the previous turn, you then have to repeat the exact same process a second time before 
 you can finally target the magical effect created by the item. If you happen to inadvertently move 
 your mouse or release the button prior to making your selection, which happens far too frequently 
 as a result of the intermittent slowdowns the game suffers from, you'll have to repeat the selection 
 process.    

 The interface is flawed in other ways as well. You'll often encounter inconsistencies between the 
 feedback provided by the interface and the actual actions of your characters. Characters occasionally 
 won't move to a location you designate, even though the game's interface indicates that the location 
 is accessible. In the middle of a character's turn, the game will occasionally seem to change its 
 mind about whether or not the character has a clear line of sight to an opponent, preventing you 
 from completing an attack with a ranged weapon or spell. Characters sometimes lose their ability 
 to attack by failing to take a direct path to a selected destination. The game's isometric perspective 
 makes it difficult to move characters close enough to, without inadvertently opening, doors or 
 chests to search for traps. Since you can only move either a single character or the entire party, 
 it's tedious to frequently change your formation or clear out the area near a doorway or by an 
 object you suspect is trapped. Your party members are required to remain in very close proximity 
 to each other, which makes it impossible to scout or search dangerous locations or objects and 
 makes multiplayer games dull for players not controlling the party leader. You can elect to have 
 your party either walk or run, but the walking speed is so interminably slow that it's almost unusable. 
           Impressive spell effects are a highlight of the game.    

  The 3rd Edition D&amp; D rules are significantly different from their predecessors, and in many 
 ways the developers of Ruins of Myth Drannor did a decent job of adapting those rules. Large sections 
 of the game's manual, including almost all of the descriptions of skills, feats, and spells, are 
 taken directly from the D&amp; D Players' Handbook, highlighting the faithfulness of the adaptation 
 of those aspects of the game. While some players will bemoan their inability to use simulated dice 
 rolls to generate their characters, the point system used by the game is specifically sanctioned 
 by the D&amp; D Dungeon Master's Guide. Weapon traits, including the new system for calculating 
 the likelihood of landing a critical hit, were accurately imported from the tabletop rules. Spells 
 were adapted particularly faithfully, and the graphical effects attached to some of the spells 
 are easily the single best feature of the game. With a couple of very minor exceptions, instead 
 of inventing their own spells, skills, or feats, the developers stuck exclusively to the core rules. 
   

  The game also perfectly adapts the new flexible multiclass rules, which generally let you gain 
 levels in different character classes without having to designate which class you want to advance 
 in until you're ready to gain a level. Character-level advancement is rapid under the 3rd Edition 
 rules, at least relative to the older D&amp; D rules, but because the developers elected to stick 
 with experience point awards that are consistent with the rules, level advancement is ironically 
 slower in Ruins of Myth Drannor than in most RPGs. Characters can reach up to level 16 in any character 
 class, and since that cap is level-based, it can be reached in more than one class, which is more 
 relevant in multiplayer where you can continue to take characters on randomly generated adventures. 
           D&amp; D 3rd Edition skills and feats aren't well implemented.    

  Unfortunately, some of the compromises made by the developers in adapting the 3rd Edition rules 
 dilute some of the principal advantages of the revised rules. In pen-and-paper D&amp; D, the 3rd 
 Edition rules provide you with the ability to customize the development of your characters, by 
 selecting special abilities (called feats) and skills, in a manner similar to the "perks and skills" 
 system used by the Fallout games. Under prior iterations of the D&amp; D rules, there were few opportunities 
 to meaningfully distinguish characters, and each character class and race was somewhat arbitrarily 
 limited to certain development paths. For example, spellcasters could use only a handful of basic 
 weapons -- but in 3rd Edition D&amp; D, spellcasters can optionally use skill points to acquire expertise 
 in swords, halberds, or any weapon. But in Ruins of Myth Drannor, you can't choose the skills and 
 feats given to your characters, and as a result the developers have essentially reintroduced the 
 rigid class restrictions imposed by the old rules and removed the ability to customize character 
 development. Spellcasters, clerics, and even rogues are limited to using basic weaponry, which 
 makes the Ruins of Myth Drannor system even more punitive than the old tabletop D&amp; D rules. 
 Even worse, the only decent ranged weapon that such characters are normally entitled to use, a 
 crossbow, doesn't exist in the game. You also have no control over the operation of some of the 
 most interesting skills, such as a rogue's stealth abilities. Metamagic feats, which let spellcasters 
 further personalize their magic, likewise aren't available. The handful of chosen skills for each 
 character class, and their ongoing development, often don't make sense. Fighters are given the 
 "concentration" skill that prevents spells, which they're unable to cast, from being disrupted. 
 Clerics focus their development points, and automatically choose a related feat, into "spellcraft," 
 a completely worthless skill that lets characters identify what spells enemies are casting against 
 them.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (14 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Valloy
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 4, 2008 11:12 am PT
Review:  Hints: 
  - pay close attention to the double and triple damage weapons
  - pay close attention to the racial items (weapons, rings and boots)
  - you do not really need 
 a cleric to clear the Halls or outside. So you can try one of the computer characters.
  - not mentioning that those characters usually have better stat points than anything you can create
 
  - easy mode: use magic all the time and rest a log
  - or you can try to win some battles with what you have at that moment
  - if you want to multi-class 
 a half-orc barbarian or warrior dwarf wait until you have two strikes per turn
  - avoid too low wisdom characters (or try to protect them through magic) .
  - you do not really 
 need a high dext sorceress (try anything between 10 and 12) just because you will find out a very 
 nice armor soon (or almost soon in the game) but try at least a 8 in str
  - easy mode 2: try at least one fast fighter/rogue character (more than 50) giving you an advantage 
 against magic-based enemies
  - buy anything you want (money is not a problem here)
  - always, always in any D&D game, keep a concussion weapon (hammer, club, staff) with you or be 
 prepared to have the most bothering fights against any mediocre skeleton.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Misfit1119
Rating: 3
Date: Dec 20, 2006 11:31 pm PT
Review:  Alright, Ill admit to it Im a huge dork for Dungeons and Dragons. There, I said it and now Ill 
 do my best to not feel ashamed. All joking on the issue aside, Ive been a fan of the table top 
 version of the game for a good twelve years now and I have played almost all of the D&amp; D franchise 
 video games to be released, be it on PC, Nintendo or whatever. So, having played both the good 
 and the bad, it comes as a serious surprise to say that Pools of Radiance: Ruins of Myth Drannor 
 is the single worst D&amp; D game, nearing being the single worst video game I have ever played. 
 Once you load up the game, you will be given the option of picking from pre-created characters 
 or to make your own party of four adventurers. The character creation system is a point-based system 
 that lets you allocate the points how you like rather than rolling for them. The advantage of this 
 system is that you can give your character the stats you like, the downside is that your characters 
 will have to suffer in several areas to have anything other than mediocre stats in what matters 
 to his class. Other than that, the game automates all of your feats and skills, taking away much 
 of the character creation that makes games like Neverwinter Nights so much fun. Having the most 
 enjoyable part of D&amp; D taken out of your hands is a pretty good sign as to what is ahead of 
 you. From there you are taken to the city of Myth Drannor to find out what happened to the party 
 who went there before you. As soon as you arrive you are attacked by several orcs and it is here 
 that you will see where the crucial failings of this game come into play. The combat is atrocious, 
 with a good ninety percent of your attacks missing their mark, no matter how skillful your character 
 gets and when your attacks finally do hit its almost a guarantee that you will do the minimum damage. 
 Normally, I would just chalk it up to bad luck, but the random rolls in this game are fairly consistent 
 in hanging out near the lower end of their respective ranges. This problem doesnt seem to bother 
 the enemies however, with even the slowest enemies going first and hitting more often than you. 
 This makes the game frustratingly hard to play, having your party getting smacked around by enemies 
 that should be a breeze. The best part of the game is the storyline, which really stinks because 
 if the story was horrendous as well it would be easy to just consider the game a total wash. But 
 I actually found the story to be interesting enough to force me to keep trying to play the game, 
 no matter how much it may have frustrated me. The problem with even this is that you have to actually 
 play the game to see how the story pans out. Honestly, you would be better served looking for the 
 book that came with the boxed set and buying that rather than this game. It goes over most of the 
 main events of the game as well as some of the side stuff, all without actually forcing you to 
 deal with this horrible game. I really wanted to like Ruins of Myth Drannor, especially after my 
 father had bought it for me for a good fifty dollars, but that wasnt to be. Playing this game 
 is like getting repeatedly punched in the gut for trying to have fun. It goes out of its way to 
 make sure that you never enjoy it and just when you start to make the mistake of enjoying yourself, 
 they find a way to squelch that. If I didnt know better, I would honestly think that they had 
 purposefully tried to make a game that nobody who played it would enjoy. You have to give props 
 to the developers for that at least, even if you avoid this game like a plague.
  
  Pros: Immense and detailed maps, Interesting storyline, the music and sound effects were pretty 
 awesome, the soundtrack and novel included with the boxed set rocked.
  
  Cons: Characters move far too slow over the huge maps, Enemies are far stronger than your party 
 which forces many restarts, Party members seem to miss 90% of their attacks even on weaker enemies, 
 Must place markers on the map on your own to mark any and all places of interest so you can find 
 them later.
  
  Score: 3/10
  
  Recommendation: Even for the hardcore D&amp; D fans, avoid this game. Its one of the worst D&amp; D 
 franchise games to have ever been made. I highly suggest reading the book that came with the boxed 
 set however. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cougerweasel
Rating: 1
Date: May 20, 2006 5:23 am PT
Review:  Boring boring boring do the same thing over & over & over & over & over & over & over & over & 
 over & over & over & over & over & over & over & over & over & over & over & over & over & over 
 & over & over & over & over & over & over & over & over & over & over & over & over & over & over 
 & over & over & over & over & over & over & over & over & over & over & over & over & over & over 
 & over & over & over & over & over & over & over & over & over & over & over & over & over & over 
 & over & over & over & over & over & over & over & over & over & over & over & over & over & over 
 & over & over & over & over & over & over & over & over & over & over & over & over & over & over 
 & over & over & over & over & over & over & over & over & over & over & over & over & over & over 
 & over & over & over & over & over & over & over & over & over & over & over & over & over & over 
 & over & over & over & over & over & over & over & over & over & over & over & over & over & over 
 & over & over & over & over & over & over & over & over & over & over & over & over & over & over 
 & over & over & over & over & over & over & over & over & over & over & over & over & over & over 
 & over & over & over & over & over & over & over & over & over & over & over & over & over & over 
 & over & over & over & over & over & over & over & over & over & over & over & over & over & over 
 & over & over & over & over & over & over & over & over & over & over & over & over & over & over 
 & over & over & over & over & over & over & over & over & over & over & over & over & over & over 
 & over & over & over & over & over & over & over & over & over & over & over & over & over & over 
 & over & over & over & over & over & over & over & O V E R 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chrisnd
Rating: 2.6
Date: May 17, 2006 9:41 pm PT
Review:  This is one of those few games where you hear so many things during its preview and hype stage 
 that you can't help but wait with baited breath. I honestly thought that it would be a great game, 
 being that it would be the first game to be based on the new 3rd Edition rule set. So, I was looking 
 forward to a refreshing restart to Dungeons and Dragons based games. I even went and bought a new 
 video card for my rig so that I could play this game.
  
  Ug... instead, I feel ashamed to admit that this is actually in my "Collection" list. What an utter 
 and complete disappointment. At its best, it is ponderous, time-wasting, and a noteworthy of nothing. 
 At its worst, it is a virus that will wipe your hard-drive if you try to uninstall it (thankfully, 
 the patches and later releases fixed that issue) .
  
  Regardless, everything about this game pretty much reeks of "Software developer rips off consumer". 
 To this day, I don't think I have bought one other UbiSoft game - at least not intentionally - 
 because they allowed this product out without any serious testing. Personally, I was not only disappointed, 
 but insulted.
  
  There is nothing else that I can say about this game. It is tedious and a complete waste of time, 
 with very few redeeming qualities, if any. The mechanics were questionable, and behaved erratically 
 for me, and the sound always appeared to be one or two notes behind the action. The interface became 
 difficult to use. And one of its worst qualities was the movement betwen area and town.
  
  I never did bother to finish the game, although I so desperately wanted to give it the old "college 
 try". However, it instead languishes in my pile of "never complted games" - and it seems awfully 
 lonely there (although it does have a few friends) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ranzou
Rating: 4.5
Date: May 6, 2006 3:14 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game when it first came out. Then shortly after was the big scare that if you uninstalled 
 it, it would erase your hard drive. Off to a rocky start.
  
  Having never played D&D in person, it took quite a bit of getting use to the rules. Especially 
 the turn based combat. Very frustrating.
  
  I had to buy the strategy guide so I'd know what to do, otherwise the scope and width of this game 
 would leave me confused. Though the guide made a world of difference, I still crawled through the 
 game.
  
  Finally I lost interest and played other games. Better games. Couple years go by, and decided to 
 pick it up again. Dungeon by dungeon crawled by, until again I got too bored and moved on.
  
  Finally, another couple years go by. Now I'm 2 computers later, and my conscience caught up 
 with me about finishing what I had started years ago. YAWN.
  
  Screw it. Read the manual to get the story end. Moving on. Oblivian calls... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jesusismyhomie
Rating: 1.1
Date: Feb 28, 2006 3:41 pm PT
Review:  This game is so terrible!!!!! The first time I played it... it sucked.... the second time (I tried) 
 playing it... it sucked again. The sound has a glitch to it and it is very annoying. I hate this 
 game so much cause it put a friggen virus on my computer and BLEW UP MY WHOLE COMPUTER! And then 
 I had to get a brand new computer. yeah. The gameplay sucks and it is repetitive. If I were you, 
 I wouldnt even try to play this game. This game is for losers, (No offense to anybody) But it is 
 the truth.
  
  0/10 Stars... not even stars!!! Turds!!! lol
  
  This is my worst favorite game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: game_god_
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jan 10, 2006 3:04 pm PT
Review:  PoR is a good game with a lil Warcraft in the mix, but just a tad bit. Not much, but still a lil. 
 It is fun and great map and good idea, but this game is SOOOOOOOOOO HARD. Most wont be able to 
 get 5 minutes into this game without gettin stuck and thinking, wow wtf is this? But like i said 
 for Fallout2, if you have the super power of playing the RPG and all of it's hardest games (hint 
 hint, PoR, Fout2, BG2) . It's so difficult that the creators tested it and they got stuck a numerous 
 amount of times and had to look over the game completly to find out what is going on. But they 
 never switched it once it had been made because it took so long to make and they were pressed to 
 get it out. But they shore did make an accomplishment for the right player, but for the normal 
 4-5 hour gamer in a day, don't get this. Now if you are like WoW players and devote the whole day 
 to games when you get it and master it then this may be interesting to play. May even get you into 
 a few movies. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: birdinflight
Rating: 2.5
Date: Jan 5, 2006 8:09 am PT
Review:  Pool of Radiance: Ruins of Myth Drannor
  
  Since the trend of pen & paper Dungeons and Dragons gaming fell by the wayside, TSR (now owned 
 by Magic card game creators Wizards of the Coast) has been focusing its efforts into the computer 
 gaming world for some time now. There have been some incredible games (Baldur's Gate, Icewind Dale, 
 and any of the original Gold Box games) as well as some insane disappointments, many of the latter 
 being tries at dominance in the console gaming market. 
  
  With Pool of Radiance: Ruins of Myth Drannor they attempt to bring back the olden days of the Gold 
 Box series, only with a more modernized approach. What you end up getting is something close to 
 Baldur's Gate, except for it has been turned to turn based style within combat. I guess there were 
 enough purist complainers about the Baldur's Gate series being in real time (even though you can 
 easily set up auto-pause) that the developers thought they could outdo Black Isle Studios (creators 
 of the Baldur's series) by doing one that is turn based for the whiners.
  
  BIG HUGE **** UP!
  
  Pool of Radiance is probably one of the slowest modern role-playing games 
 ever. Only those with incredible patience should even attempt to play it. In this modern age where 
 there is no disk swapping and incredible load times... this game is outshone in speed by games that 
 are more than a decade old. I'm almost tempted to pull out my Commodore 64 and my old copy of Knights 
 of Legend to speed my game playing up a bit (and anyone who has ever played that game knew how 
 slow it was) . Some enemy types within combat are such slow movers that you can actually take bathroom 
 breaks while they move close to your party enough to attack. Trust me... after you play this game 
 for a few hours you'll groan each and every time you come across a group of slow moving zombies, 
 and there are LOTS of them. I have some mean patience but even I was pounding my head against the 
 keyboard in extreme boredom.
  
  Even if that was taken away though it still has some awful aspects to it. It is still incredibly 
 bug filled. You need to save your game almost non-stop just in case one of your characters ends 
 up suddenly popping up on the wrong side of a wall. Your party must ALWAYS be within some manageable 
 
  distance of each other, so if a character is on the opposite end of a wall, in a room you can't 
 get to, you're basically screwed. The turn-based gameplay is amusing for all of about 20 minutes, 
 or until you find that you are trying to attack the wrong creature accidentally because they are 
 too close to each other. All in all, the gameplay can be infuriating to say the least. 
  
  Even the most hardcore computer role-playing game fanatics might not be able to deal with this 
 new foray into the Forgotten Realms. Gone are all the original rule systems, now replaced with 
 TSR/WOTC new version, which this was the the first D&D game to use them. The differences between 
 them are pretty vast, so many of the fans of Baldur's Gate and the like may be turned off by them 
 easily. Nearly every role-player knows the original rule system quite well, but it's an incredibly 
 small percentage that actually knows this new system. I think that was one of many bad decisions 
 on the behalf of the developers.
  
  I'd only recommend this game to those that seriously have no life whatsoever and are jonesing for 
 another RPG to fill the void in their wasted lives, or to those that are fans of japanese style 
 role-playing games where the enemies have 1,000,000 hit points and it takes 350 rounds to kill 
 them.
  
  I think those two groups are the only ones that have the patience (read between the lines: no lives) 
 to be able to enjoy this game at all.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: galinthas
Rating: 5.2
Date: Jan 5, 2006 5:17 am PT
Review:  Being a huge fan of both the campaign setting and Dungeons and Dragons in general, I purchased 
 this games in hopes of experiencing one of the first adaptations of D&D 3. X rules. While this game 
 may have managed to put those rules into effect, the amount of effort required to get past all 
 the technical issues, and slowness of gameplay made it impossible to enjoy.
  
  To give an example of the issues dealt with... After painfully installing the game, a number of 
 patches were necessary to deal with various gameplay and install issues, the least of which being 
 the inability to uninstall the game correctly. That likely was the first sign that should have 
 clued me in to the evilness of this game. Even if you want to get rid of it, you'll have difficulty. 
 
  
  Then, once all the various patches had been installed, you begin gameplay and are immediately thrust 
 into a combat situation with a single Player Character (PC) who is battling two relatively powerful 
 foes. At this point, without familiarity with the game interface, its fairly difficult to survive 
 unless you've chosen to build a uber-PC. Add to that, the time it takes for the animations of the 
 individual PC (s) and monsters, and you'll be spending most of your time watching the creatures 
 get to you and attack you then actually doing anything of importance.
  
  Eventually I resorted to installing a tweak that allows the user to manually increase the game-speed. 
 This, at least, allowed me to reduce the excruciating time it took to get through combat. Even 
 then, there appeared very little guidance for the user as to the path they should be taking. So 
 oftentimes, I would find myself entering into battles that were way too challenging for me at the 
 time. Now, for some people that would be a more accurate representation of a dangerous world to 
 adventure in, however I would expect for most people, the idea of a good game is one that tends 
 ot tailor the challenges a PC -can- face, based upon their current level of power.
  
  Despite the various methods of easing the flaws of gameplay, I just never could fully get into 
 the story or care about what was going on enough to really feel engaged. Unless you're really bored 
 and just -have- to play a D&D game in the Myth Drannor setting within Forgotten Realms... I would 
 avoid this game like the plague. There are just too many flaws to waste your money on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hobblegott
Rating: 3
Date: Dec 5, 2005 2:43 am PT
Review:  This game is an absolute waste of time. The only reason I could even see some one excusing the 
 play of this game is because it's based on D&D 3rd edition, but if that's the case then you really 
 should get Neverwinter Nights instead. I own NWN Platinum and it is the greatest thing to ever 
 happen to this D&D nerd, but i digress. This game caused so much frustration. I wish I could say 
 something - ANYTHING - positive about this game, but all in all I can only say that I wasted my 
 money. Seriously, for the love of all that is good and holy, buy Neverwinter Nights and don't give 
 this game a second glance. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Everclearules
Rating: 5.9
Date: Mar 1, 2005 1:33 am PT
Review:  The graphics are great for a D&D game still in 2D (it's not up there with Neverwinter Nights that 
 is) . Great looking characters with items that actually appear as they should, and spells that look 
 great. 
  
  The sound is the worst part of this game. There is just about no music to talk of, which really 
 does not work well with a dungeon crawl game. Sound effects are bland and that's being generous. 
 Alot of work should have been put into this game because of how it plays, which sadly wasn't. 
 
  
  The gameplay is basically Baldur's Gate or Icewind Dale turnbased, with 3rd edition rules. Characters 
 move a little to slow, so battles take entirely too long. The game in general is pretty boring. 
 Having items that could be found somewhat regularly and that were atleast somewhat decent would 
 have made the game a bit better, but sadly it's just a dungeon crawl with little 'loot'. 
  
  Again, this game isn't the worst game ever, but I still wouldn't recommend anyone to get this. 
 Try Greyhawk: Temple of Elemental Evil if you want a turnbased RPG, Pool of Radiance: Ruins of 
 Myth Drannor is too dull. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lightweb69
Rating: 5.2
Date: Nov 6, 2004 6:18 am PT
Review:  i definately expected better after playing the original gold box series from SSI. the interface 
 is extremly cumbersome i have played 25+ hours and still find it hard to control it seems like 
 the developers decided to change all the common keystrokes / commands from what you would expect 
 them to be. 
  
  It one redeaming factor was the graphics, and the story line is not that bad just repetitive overall 
 i would give this game a 5.5 as the story and graphics help to overcome some of the cumbersome 
 gameplay issues.
  
  I had looked forward to playing this until about an hour after installing i dragged myself through 
 the next 10 to 15 hours hoping that it would get better nut it never did. i would regulate this 
 one to the bargin bin and leave it there. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jgalt
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 25, 2003 10:40 am PT
Review:  Simply put, until TOEE arrives it's the only turn-based DD3 CRGP available. Ok, so that's not a 
 glowing endor****t, but for old-time P&P RPG'ers like me who want some alternatives to the large 
 number of real-time games out there POR2 represents a welcome choice. For those people who don't 
 like turn-based combat, this game is not for you. Not only does this game have turn based combat, 
 but the combat is somewhat slow-paced and there's plenty of it. It's not unlike most modern CRPGs, 
 because at its core it's an RPG combat simulator with a simple story and a foozle to kill at the 
 end of the dungeon. While this obviously cannot compare to live DD3 sessions for story and interaction, 
 it is a fun dungeon romp for those few of us left that think that turn-based combat in CRPGs and 
 in strategy games is generally the most fun.
  
  You can probably find this game in bargain bins on the Internet for $10.00 or less. At that price, 
 if you like turn-based CRPGS, my advice to you would be to ignore the negative reviews and pick 
 up this game. There's a reason this game is rated just over 5. There's a large group of turn-based 
 fans who like the game and large group of real-time only fans who hate it. Plus a number of negative 
 reviews were for version 1.0. The game is now patched up to version 1.4 which has removed most 
 of the bugs and other problems in the game. So if you could remove all of the low scores for bug 
 issues that have since been fixed and removed all of the "I hate turn-based (because it's too slow) " 
 flame ratings of 1.0, you'd probably end up with lots of scores from people like me who enjoy CRPGs, 
 enjoy turn-based combat, and who played the game with version 1.4 and enjoyed it. I'd guess the 
 average score in that group would be between 8.0 and 9.0. If you fit in that group, get this game, 
 you'll enjoy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheShadowDawn
Rating: 1.9
Date: Jul 6, 2003 9:04 pm PT
Review:  Without doubt, PoR2 is the most mind numbing game I have ever played.
  
  I like to work on the principle that if I haven't finished the game, I shouldn't comment on it. 
 However, after wasting at least 50 hours on this game so far, there's no end anywhere in sight 
 and the game remains so damn tedious that I'm afraid I'm going to have to give up.
  
  I suppose the word 'epic' on the box might be justified. If by 'epic' you mean 'huge'. Yes, the 
 dungeons of Myth Drannor are huge. And boring. And full of orcs and undead, with very few variations 
 thereof. And, apart from that, not much else, I'm afraid to say. By about your 50th encounter you 
 get a little suspicious at the lack of variety. By the 100th you're certain of it.
  
  I don't have anything against turn based play, though yes I'll freely admit, I'm a PC gamer. Not 
 a pen and paper fan. However Pool of Radiance's turn based play was not strategically paced, it 
 was idiotically tedious. Encounter with generic orcs #5464, #2623 and #6263 takes four minutes 
 due to the turn based play, even though the battle is a foregone win from the start, and I'll I'm 
 doing is assigning automatic primary weapon attacks. Encounter with minor boss #245 takes twenty 
 minutes because of the time necessary to navigate the chaotic submenus to find the appropriate 
 wand, spell, or ability to win.
  
  Outside combat, the game is tediously slow as well, as characters shuffle around the endless dungeons. 
 Formations are not automatic, and you have to manually assign them once you exceed four starting 
 characters. Breaking/examing every chest/table/tampon dispenser that you inevitably need to just 
 in case there is some critically important item hidden inside takes half an hour thanks to the 
 strange need for characters to pause and take eight second breathers after swiping.
  
  Oh, and let's not forget the fact that the game lacks any of the elements of a CRPG except for 
 dungeon crawling. Quests? Oh, well, there's one or two highly cryptic, non engaging, and heavily 
 bugged ones. Phat loot to save up for an buy? No, cos there's only one merchant right at the start 
 of the game, and even he gets yanked, apparently so as not to spoil the gaming experience. (Why 
 the hell did they even include gold in the game anway?) Character development? Nope, you get your 
 feats chosen for you. NPC's to talk to? Yeah, I think we saw one... on the last level... about ten 
 hours ago.
  
  Even the sound was bad. Once you kill your thousandth orc, that death sound is pretty much ingrained 
 in your skull. Along with the shuffling footstep sound. The music got repetitive after only an 
 hour of playing the game, became a mind numbing cacophony later on until I realised mercifully 
 I could turn it off.
  
  The graphics were really, all in all the only decent part of the game. The fault I had with them 
 was aesthetic only - the way your characters turned to stick figure skeletons when behind walls 
 and other obstructions, making me doubt how far technology has come with games.
  
  So yes, I'm ashamed but not regretful to say, I uninstalled pool of radiance before I finished 
 it. By my judgement, well before anywhere near the end of the game. If you want a 'dungeon crawl' 
 party based D&D game, go back and play Icewind Dale. An older on an older ruleset that was actually 
 fun. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
