-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Populous: The Beginning
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/populousthebeginning/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec 11, 1998
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.5
Critic Score: 8.0, 14 Review (s)
User Score: 8.5, 634 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Electronic Arts
Developer: Bullfrog Prod.
Genre: Real-Time Strategy
Date:     Nov 30, 1998

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
This isn't a Populous for the 3D-accelerator age; it's a game that takes inspiration from the original, 
 but little else. 

 Truly classic strategy games - of which there are but a handful - become greater in hindsight. When 
 you look at the hundreds of mediocre games available each year, it's easy to long for the days 
 of Civilization. Of SimCity. Of Populous. Sequels to these classics can go one of two routes. The 
 safe route is to make a slightly modified version of the original (such as Civilization II or Populous 
 II) . The daring route is to completely revamp the game, taking the core elements and building a 
 new game atop them. Populous: The Beginning, the third in the series, does the latter. This isn't 
 a Populous for the 3D-accelerator age; it's a game that takes inspiration from the original, but 
 little else. There are some minor similarities, but Populous: The Beginning is a very different 
 game.  

 The original Populous cast you in the role of a god, influencing your worshippers to obliterate 
 the heretics who worship other gods. You could manipulate the terrain. You could cast devastating 
 spells to kill your enemies' followers. You could influence your people to move and attack but 
 could not control them directly. In Populous: The Beginning, you can manipulate terrain. You can 
 cast devastating spells. But you aren't a god, you are a shaman, with godlike aspirations (hence 
 the title) . You do control your followers directly, and in that, Populous: The Beginning makes 
 the biggest break from the original. The end result is more akin to a contemporary real-time strategy 
 game than the strange subgenre of "god games" that Populous created. It's like Warcraft with no 
 resources, a small handful of units, and amazing graphics.   

 Each mission starts with you and a handful of followers. You command these followers to start building 
 structures, such as domestic huts to generate more followers and training huts to generate combat 
 units. There are two types of combat units: warriors and priests. Warriors come in a few flavors, 
 such as the basic, hand-to-hand unit and fire warriors, who shoot fireballs at your foes. Priests 
 have the ability to convert enemy units to your cause. You also have your shaman, the most powerful 
 unit in the game, who has an assortment of powerful spells in her arsenal.  

 Once you have a solid force at your disposal, you go out to destroy the enemy. There are two goals 
 in almost every mission: Gather as many followers as possible and eliminate the enemy. Followers 
 are gathered in many ways. They can be generated in huts; as stated before, priests can convert 
 enemy followers; and the shaman's convert spell can turn neutral natives to your cause. Destroying 
 the opposition basically requires you to select all of your forces and throw them at the enemy. 
 Mixed forces are required, because only priests can prevent your soldiers from being converted 
 by enemy priests. Occasionally tactics can be utilized effectively, but basically it's just a case 
 of the biggest army winning. Once in a while, a mission uses a slightly modified structure, but 
 these are the exception.  

 As in many Bullfrog games, you gain access to higher-level buildings and spells with each subsequent 
 mission. In this, Populous: The Beginning is similar to Bullfrog's Dungeon Keeper. You can get 
 new spells and structures from worshipping totems or raiding vaults of knowledge. With the former, 
 you gain the knowledge for a limited time. With the latter (which only your shaman can access) , 
 it becomes a permanent part of your repertoire. For instance, you may get a few castings of the 
 tornado spell early on, but you won't get to use it consistently until much later. The pacing is 
 good, and almost every mission gives you something new to play with.  

 Graphically, Populous: The Beginning is quite impressive. The artists have given buildings a primitive, 
 thatched-hut-like appearance. Each mission is set on a different, small world, and the engine accurately 
 represents the fact that you are on a globe, with curved surfaces and an effective horizon. Control 
 is somewhat similar to Bungie's Myth: The Fallen Lords, and you can rotate and zoom the map at 
 will (even zooming all the way out to view the world as a globe, with buildings and units appearing 
 as small icons) . The sound is good, from the cartoonish battle sounds to the strange language your 
 minions speak.  

 The only real problem with Populous: The Beginning is the difficulty in controlling your minions. 
 Battles can be quite chaotic and frenetic, even at the lowest speed setting. Your minions can be 
 difficult to control with any precision, as they often act with a mind of their own. This is both 
 a good thing (they'll find work to do if they're standing around idle) and a bad thing (they'll 
 often run headlong into battle while you're trying to formulate a plan) . As it stands, Populous: 
 The Beginning has enough innovation to make it more than just a run-of-the-mill real-time strategy 
 game. It isn't really Populous, but it's a solid game with some interesting twists and features. 
    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (11 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Epochend
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 5, 2009 5:05 pm PT
Review:  I've never played the original Populous games, so I'm unable to compare this one against them: 
 I understand that they're pretty different, though. Either way, I'll be reviewing Populous: The 
 Beginning as if it were a wholly new entity; and coming from this viewpoint, I thought it was a 
 great game.
  
  ~
  
  Pros:
  
  + Satisfying Combat: It's just as important in RTS games as in other genres that combat be satisfying: 
 perhaps even more so, given that you can't have direct involvement in it. Populous is one of the 
 best RTS games with regards to this, with every thwack of your tribesmen, every horrific spell 
 cast their way really hitting home. And when a particularly large battle kicks off, it's great 
 fun to just sit back and watch the chaos!
  
  + Setting: You just don't get many games inspired by Native American culture, and this one does 
 a wonderful job of getting that feel across. The art design and general look of the worlds you 
 visit are all top-notch, and the game still looks remarkably pretty today - playing on a globe 
 is still cool!
  
  + Accessible: It's very easy to get into this game, and you can have a lot of fun for relatively 
 little investment in learning its intricacies.
  
  + Music: This game has some of the most relaxing music I've ever heard, fitting the style and setting 
 perfectly. Despite the fact there are only a few tracks, all of which are pretty similar, I just 
 can't get tired of it!
  
  + Landscape Manipulation: The fact that you can fiddle about with the game's landscape at will, 
 once you have the appropriate spells, is still something that barely crops up in RTS games, and 
 adds a world of amusing opportunities for you to play around with.
  
  Cons:
  
  - Longveity: Once you've got through the campaign, there's nothing else apart from multiplayer 
 available to try; not even different difficulty settings. This could all have been adressed if 
 there were a Skirmish mode, but sadly no.
  
  - AI: It's fairly clear that the AI has only a few preset strategies for each level, which makes 
 it all too easy to abuse their limited approaches. I suspect this is why no Skirmish mode was included...
 
  
  - Repetitive: There are a few interesting missions that give you strange twists and odd things 
 to do, but for the most part you'll be doing the same village-building/burning the whole way through. 
 Given that there are comparatively few unit-types and strategies available, many of which you acquire 
 quite soon into the game, you really begin to notice this the further through you get.
  
  ~
  
  Despite the longveity issues, this is still a very satisfying game to come back to now 
 and again. Its presentation, style and setting are still impressive and unique after all this time, 
 and the simple savagery of the combat never ceases to please the eyes and ears. People expecting 
 something more directly related to the other Populous games may have been disappointed, but for 
 anyone just looking for a fun RTS, I recommend giving it a shot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TugaSoldatTV
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 4, 2008 4:59 pm PT
Review:  What else to day? Even after 10 years, this game still rocks. I still have it.
  
  The amazing battles, spells, sceneries are just wild as me. This game was an insta-classic games, 
 and it was the best in the series. It was challenging and fun at the same time.
  
  Constructing your village, training warriors, fire warriors, preachers etc, charging your deadly 
 spells... all made the game so fantastic.
  
  Well enough of repeating myself. This games rocked, rocks and will rock and so on.
  
  And i 
 need 100 words so: the game is awesome, it runs pretty good on your pc, its funny, creative. Play 
 it if you find it, you wont regret.
  
  P. S: there are spells from lightening to tornadoes, volcanoes and even the Angel of Death. BEAT 
 THAT!
  
  Populous Rocks!
  
  And i need more words so:
  
  Rocks, Rocks, Rocks. 10 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NRG753
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 21, 2008 6:10 pm PT
Review:  I think this game is one of the most underrated game of all time. Although it was different from 
 the previous titles, it was a very unique, fun, and addictive game, and still is.
  
  In this game you control a shaman, who over time can learn spells and plans for new buildings. 
 This is one of the main aspects of the game that urge you to keep playing as you'll want to keep 
 hacking away at the level you're on, so that you can gain new intelligence in order to defeat your 
 enemy in different ways.
  
  The graphics are amazing for something released in 1998, and I'm sure it was one of about 3 strategy 
 games that were actually 3d. No other strategy game, besides perhaps those made by the same developer, 
 could surpass the quality of this games visuals for many years. It was also one of few, if not 
 the only strategy game in it's time where you could zoom out and see your entire planet, or even 
 the entire solar system. To have a game where you could shape the landscape, destroy buildings 
 by sinking them, or create a volcano in the middle of your enemies base was astonishing for 1998.
 
  
  I would say the difficulty is just right, yes there are a couple of hard levels early on, and you 
 do get the feeling that things are only going to get harder, but in fact they do get slightly easier 
 as you gain more spells. There was one stage that took me 2 hours to complete, and it was quite 
 a fun level, but the stage after that only took me 17 minutes to complete. This shows that even 
 though you think the next level might be harder, it may be quite easy, and this is a good aspect 
 to the game. The enemy AI is quite intelligent after you get past the first planetary system, and 
 even if you set up 3 bases on a planet, they seem to know how to scout out each one and attack 
 it.
  
  The one thing I think they could have done better on is the multiplayer side of the game. It's 
 hard to set up a game over a LAN, and even harder to set one up over the internet. Once you do 
 get a game up and running however, it's just absolutely fun to play against an actual person.
 
  
  Like Dungeon Keeper II, it's underrated, and it's impossible to find something you wont like about 
 the game, you might find you like everything about this game. If you're looking for a good strategy 
 game, even though this game is 10 years old (at the time of writing this review anyway) , it really 
 is a must-play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: More_Dakka
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 26, 2007 11:35 am PT
Review:  Populous the Beginning is a god/strategy game that was made by Bullfrog way back in 1998, following 
 the success of the series previous two titles. While The Beginning can be quite simplistic at times 
 in that there really isn't much variety to the strategies you can use, the hectic combat and spell 
 flinging is addicting, and ultimately makes Populous the Beginning more than capable of keeping 
 you interested throughout all 25 of its single player levels.
  
  First thing you'll definitely notice about The Beginning, is that you aren't playing as a god this 
 time. You play as a shaman instead, who has similar abiliites to a god, but is more restricted 
 as her spells all have a limited range since she is a mere mortal who has to walk around just like 
 everyone else. But she is still your most powerful character by far and is essential to your success 
 in the campaign. She'll gain access to more spells as you proceed, and becomes more powerful when 
 you get more followers, as followers generate mana for spell casting.
  
  Your basic objective on each world is always to defeat your enemy, using conventional means or 
 otherwise. To do this, you'll generally have to build up a village on each world, and train yourself 
 an army that will eventually consist of warriors, preachers who can convert the enemy's followers, 
 firewarriors who shoot fireballs, and spies who can sabotage enemy buildings. There are also Braves 
 who construct your buildings and can be trained into those varying types of followers. Each follower 
 has its strengths and weaknesses. For example, warriors are the best fighters in the game and generally 
 live the longest, but they are extremely vulnerable to preachers, while preachers are vulnerable 
 to enemy preachers. One thing is always consistent however- every type of unit in the game is easily 
 countered by a well-prepared Shaman. So the Shaman is essentially a wild card that is devastating 
 when fully charged.
  
  While you do need a well-balanced force to succeed, the actual combat is quite simplistic. No need 
 for complicated positioning or formations since combat quickly deforms into a blob of followers. 
 What you do need to manage however is your Shaman, make sure she doesn't get into too much trouble, 
 or a lot of spells could go unused very quickly. Despite the simplistic combat however, the game 
 tends to be very difficult, for the campaign's difficulty ramps up really quick. You can expect 
 to run into some real challenge as early as level 9. And it only gets harder from there. This is 
 mostly due to a combination of the fact that the enemy tribes generally start with a well-developed 
 village, and the AI can be quite vicious in some levels. The AI likes using increasingly large 
 attack groups as the game goes on, and they make good use of their own Shaman's spells. The only 
 nit-pick against the AI is that it is almost completely scripted, so it is completely predictable 
 with its attack patterns in all of the levels. They will generally use the exact same routes every 
 time as well. So you'll eventually know what to expect from the AI in a level if you keep replaying 
 it. Its also unfortuante that you can't play multiplayer matches with the AI.
  
  When your done with the single player campaign, you can move on to the Beginning's multiplayer. 
 Unfortunately, the main site for online play went down a while ago, so you will have to find the 
 other methods available on the web in order to play online (Wikipedia's Populous the Beginning article 
 has some links for this) . Even if you did go online though, there aren't that many maps available, 
 so it probably won't keep you occupied for a very long time. There are also modem and LAN modes 
 available as well.
  
  Graphically, The Beginning does a great job of making a global map for you to play on, so the sights 
 to be seen here are impressive, especially how you can see units and buildings on the horizon at 
 times. (Albeit, these graphics are dated at this point, but their still impressive) . Sound wise, 
 the game has some great sounds for the spells, but everything else merely gets the job done, and 
 nothing else.
  
  Ultimately, Populous: The Beginning is an addicting god/strategy game that'll dare you to try and 
 make your way through its punishing single player campaign. And the game is certainly a blast to 
 play through if your in for the long haul.
  
  Pros: Great graphics. Challenging and addicting Sinlge player campaign. Capable AI.
  
  Cons: 
 AI is completely scripted, and thus predictable. Main Multiplayer site is down. Multiplayer itself 
 is lacking.
  
  Recommendable for: Strategy fans who like some challenging and hectic action. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flakk3r
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 13, 2006 12:34 pm PT
Review:  This was one of the first games I really got stuck to.
  Alongside Age of Empires I then had my two favourite games.
  
  With the quite chaotic and most 
 amusing gameplay a strategy game ever have had, populous gives you alot more then building houses 
 and getting militarys to fight for you. It's so much more. By praying to stoneheads, totems, or 
 vault of knowledge you learn new magics and buildings
  The whole idea of havin a shaman as your tribe leader and that she reincarnates when dying is great.
 
  
  With your shaman you can play god, with enough mana you feel invincble, just by walking around 
 the map blasting little braves around makes you a happy man. You start upp at your reincarnation 
 site, with your shaman and a pack of braves (villagers) . From there all the fun starts, throughout 
 the whole campaign you always weres a smile on your face. It's really hard to stop playing after 
 you have got going and it's easy to learn.
  
  The difficult is perfect and the whole idea is fantastic with the warriors, firewarriors, preachers 
 and not to forget, the shaman that works as your miltary when u decide to attack another tribe
 
  
  On the multiplayer side I know theres a matchmaker for it and theres alot of populous players out 
 there, that also is a plus for this game
  
  I think it's the simpleness that have made this strategy game what it is,
  it's old but still 
 I take it down from my shelf to clear some levels time to time 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maester-Slayer
Rating: 9.9
Date: Sep 13, 2006 12:03 pm PT
Review:  Its hard to get started about populous without mentioning the graphics. So I'll start with the 
 graphics. Except for the people themselves, the graphics are comparable to graphics even in this 
 day and age. To this day I've never seen a game that allwos full control of the land. and the land 
 is another matter. even the textures themselves are in layers. you can find a streak in the ground 
 and follow i ta long ways. Tiles are just pressed together, they flow perfectly from one tile to 
 the next. For all elevations. Battles are very good aswell. What they do corresponds to what happens. 
 If you attack someone that is running by water, usually your guy will just shove them in the water. 
 The automation in the game really helps too. You can focus on the attack rather than making sure 
 you have enough untis available for defense. You don't have to search the world looking for peoplel 
 to build your structures. If there is a brave standing around, he will come build it. Self-motivated 
 followers, go figure. Put a warrior in a guard tower and he rings a bell that brings all followers 
 in range to help fight. Preachers automatically beat the crud out of other preachers. firewarriors 
 automatically pick priority targets (shamens, other firewarriors, preachers) . This is simply a 
 great game. fun in both single and multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TriPPZz
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 9, 2006 9:46 pm PT
Review:  Populous: The Beginning is a very good and well donr game. Even though it is much like its other 
 games in it's genre like Command and Conquer, Starcraft and Warcraft but it is still a very good 
 game and very addictive. What I most liked about the game is that you get to play the role of a 
 GOD if you want to say it in that way and the setting is very original in a sense of ancient times 
 or Aztec.
  
  I played the demo before this game came out and I recently started playing it again and again...
 
  
  I recommend it to people that like this genre of games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matenmoe
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 15, 2006 1:13 am PT
Review:  I don't think it is awesome just because it has a 3D Engine, and you can zoom in/out as well as 
 rotate the entire planet (your game map) around. I really don't mind that there is only one physical 
 resource to collect (re-growable trees) instead of gold or stone etc. The wood builds Huts, the 
 Huts 'grow' tribesmen, But none of it is a kept 'score' of any kind. I don't think the resource 
 of Manna (for spellcasting) based on the number of your tribesmen/ followers is too hard a system 
 to worry about. There is no scoring in this Hawaiin Looking stone age- your Shaman and her tribe 
 conquers each planet (world) or gets defeated. 
  I don't find the humor cheesey when one of my tribe gets his butt caught on flames from an enemy 
 Shaman's lightening or firestorm spell, and runs about hollering and smoking from behind. Its somehow 
 even funnier when your arson bent Spies (who change into another tribe's color for you) torch the 
 hut the other guy sleeps in for the same result. Even the swirling stars over a tribesman's head 
 after he has a fistfight are cute. It IS a Prehistoric and primitive age afterall. 
  All shaman's are female-don't mind that either-they look kind of 'animae hotty' these leaders. 
 Even if she gets killed, as long as the Shaman has at least ONE live follower, she comes back, reincarnated 
 at your tribe's stonehenge site. If she has NO followers left however, her stonehenge crumbles into 
 the earth and GAME OVER! It isn't such a bad thing to completely reshape the various planets you 
 fight for dominion over using your Shaman's spells. It's good to be Shaman-not that you have the 
 choice as the main character. But only she can cause Volcanoes and Earthquakes. (BOOM!) Tornadoes 
 and Swarms of Insects, Temporary dragons (Angel of Death-eats the other guy's followers YUMMY) and 
 Invisibility. Sure it's bad the enemy Shamans can do just the same, but you know what to expect 
 then, huh?
  Nor do I find it sacreligious when my tribesmen bow down to Easter Island type stone heads and 
 chant away. Getting us more powerful spells or hut designs, then those idols sink into the earth, 
 Unless another tribe beats us to it. The boats and Hot Air balloons are great ideas (since swimming 
 hasn't been invented yet) in the battle for control of the 25 planets, Each planet with a different 
 environment & each planet also being another level of the game. 
  Sometimes it is hard to get to the stone head or pyramid that gives you blueprints (to build the 
 woodhuts ) which make the boats or balloons. Afterall- the Matak (green) Dakini (red) and Chumara 
 (yellow) tribes are always nearby, Although all 3 aren't on every planet you try to conquer. But 
 there's help! Your standard issue Braves (The name of your blue loin-clothed tribe) can train in 
 the Warrior Hut to weild swords. All training is almost Instant, too. Your Firewarrior hut lets you 
 make fireball throwing fighters out of regular tribesmen. The Temple lets you make tribesmen into 
 (enemy -unit- converting) priests in Bishop Hats-Even their hypnotic droning is fun to hear. Especially 
 if you build a tower for them to perch in as they do it! Watch out though-the other tribe (s) are 
 doing the same, and usually faster than you!
  I just DON'T KNOW what one thing makes me love Populous The Begining so much. Maybe if I had more 
 time I could figure it out for you all, but I'm enjoying myself too much playing it to really care. 
 And a week, month, or year from now I'm STILL going to enjoy it, even though I've won it numerous 
 times already. 
  
  IT IS JUST PLAIN FUN. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: amoebaman360
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 27, 2006 5:58 am PT
Review:  Currently, I'm running off of a Nvidia GeForce mx440, a fairly obsolete video card. so, while i'm 
 saving up for a good one, I dug up Populous, the Beginning. I remembered being addicted to this 
 game for hours at a time, remembering all the cool spells and stuff, so i decided to install it 
 and give it a try. 
  
  at this time, the game is probably not more than 10 bucks on amazon, and the game takes up about 
 90 megs, so you cant complain that it's a waste of time or money. but enough about that, now to 
 explain why i scored it the way i did. 
  
  yes, i gave the game an 8 in graphics in an age of doom 3, half life 2, and elder scrolls 4. but 
 i did because although its not anything really spiffy, the game has really beutiful looking enviroments, 
 with nicely stylized buildings, and there are some very nice subtle details, like when you cast 
 a lightning spell near a tree or stack of wood, it will burst into flames.
  
  i gave it a 9 in gameplay because this game is highly addicting. there are so many things to do 
 in a single game. the jist of it is you have a mana bar, showing how much out of how much mana 
 you are currently using. the more mana you have, the faster your spells will recharge, and the 
 fewer spells you have charging, the more mana you have. you gain spells and buildings over time 
 by stealing it from your enemies, who are suprisingly smart. your enemies can be predictable, but 
 they still intelligently respond to what you do, and guard their base. when you start out, you 
 have a shaman, who can cast said spells. you are a higher power, who has the ability to control 
 the entire tribe. you have a recarnation site, and in most missions, so does your enemy. a recarnation 
 site will dissapear if all a shamans followers die. by default your people are braves, who can 
 be made by converting wildmen using a spell, or they can be reproduced by putting your men in houses. 
 also, you can build things such as temples, warriors huts, and several other training structures, 
 allowing you to get real warriors with distinctly different attributes and uses. now, before i 
 spoil anymore of this, just know that the gameplay rocks, lol.
  
  i gave sound an 8 because, again, its not doom 3, but its not bad, and it goes nicely with the 
 style of the game.
  
  i gave it a tilt of 10 because this is a highly addictive game, which, coincedentally, im about 
 to go play right now. bottem line is, if you are considering searching for this at the bargain 
 bin in eb games, go do it. now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CorruptCuban
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 2, 2006 4:14 pm PT
Review:  The game is too cool. the graphics are very nice (for being such an old game) and the gameplay 
 is astonishing. Any time I see this game in stores, I purchase it (ridiculously cheap) and give 
 it to a friend so we can play on-line. Its the concept is fun and I don't see why it got such a 
 low rating. I'd give it 9.5 and call it a ground-breaking game that should be remade and continued.
 
  The only down fall I see is its lack of a skirmish mode. All there is a campaign and although 
 long and fun, a 'pick-up game' mode would of put the icing on the cake! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxdemobster
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 22, 2006 4:32 am PT
Review:  OVERALL: When my mother bought me this game about...5 years ago, I was disappointed, that she did`t 
 find the game, I wanted. But I`ve said: "Why should not I try it? It can`t be so bad." And I did. 
 In fact I was very happy, that I have tried it.
  
  GAME PLAY: This is a rare RTS game, where everything is about the gods, magic, shamans and... Indians. 
 You actually play as "blue shaman" - (her name is not mentioned) , which is in war with other tribes 
 - Dakini (red) , Chumara (yellow) and Matak (green) .
  In this game, you have a lot spells at your disposal - from Blast (fireball) , Invisibility to Lighting, 
 Tornado and even Volcano. There are also numerous buildings at your disposal - living huts, then 
 Boat and Balloon production huts and various training huts for your followers (Temple for example 
 trains Preachers) .
  The bad thing is that many of new spells and huts needs to be obtained via Vault of Knowledge (for 
 unlimited use, but anyway, spells need to be charged) or Stone Heads (limited uses of spells and 
 buildings plans) - therefor, you can`t enjoy the full experience; another thing is that the opposite 
 tribe will always have some advantage - and sometimes, defeating the opposite tribe can be hard. 
 There are also Totem pools and Obelisks, that trigger various spells.
  But you will certainly enjoy the battles with other tribes, especially the big ones - just like 
 in the past.
  Campaign is very long and therefor hard, but enjoyable.
  
  GRAPHICS: Graphics effects are amazing, only the details are bad, especially of buildings and natural 
 objects (trees etc.) . The colourfulness of this game is really good, which is particularly useful 
 for identifying the enemy.
  
  SOUNDS: Sounds are superb, only the followers and shaman voices are little boring.
  
  MULTI-PLAYER: 
 In multi-player, there is always a lot of fun and nonstop fighting. It is even better than Single 
 player.
  
  FINAL THOUGHTS: A great game, that won`t disappoint you, if you like RTS. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
