-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Port Royale
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/portroyale/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun 20, 2003
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.5
Critic Score: 8.0, 18 Review (s)
User Score: 8.2, 262 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Tri Synergy
Developer: Ascaron Ent. GmbH
Genre: Historic Real-Time...
Date:     Jun 4, 2003
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Once you get past Port Royale's steep learning curve, you may find yourself enthralled by the game's 
 promise of profiteering and pirating on the high seas. 

  Ascaron's strategy game Port Royale takes place in one of the most exciting seagoing settings for 
 a game: the pirate-infested Caribbean of the 16th and 17th centuries. At the time, huge Spanish 
 galleons loaded with gold carried enough cannons to keep ordinary pirates at bay, but there were 
 still plenty of less-defended trade ships that were easy prey for dastardly pirates and buccaneers 
 looking to amass a quick fortune. Intermittent wars between colonial nations made this frontier 
 even wilder -- well-armed traders would often be pressed into duty as privateers with a license to 
 sink or capture enemy ships. Port Royale sets you loose in the middle of this world to make your 
 way as a trader, privateer, pirate, or some combination of the three. Once you get past Port Royale's 
 steep learning curve, you may find yourself enthralled by the game's promise of profiteering and 
 pirating on the high seas.  

          Port Royale drops you in the beautiful -- and dangerous -- waters of the Caribbean to trade 
 peaceably or engage in piracy.     

  Those who played MicroProse's classic game Pirates! will find many of the same basic elements in 
 Port Royale, including real-time ship-to-ship combat, career advancement, treasure maps, and story-based 
 missions involving the search for lost family members. But developer Ascaron's prior work on Patrician 
 II -- the 2001 strategy game based on medieval Hanseatic League sea trade -- is reflected in Port Royale's 
 sophisticated trading system, and the new game has a similarly dry, detail-oriented style. Still, 
 the game is much better than Patrician II, not only because of its more refined interface and graphics 
 but also simply because there's now plenty to do when you're not in the mood to design the best 
 sea routes for buying low and selling high.  

  It can be surprisingly difficult to get started as a rookie pirate or trader in a normal game of 
 Port Royale, but fortunately the game features a tutorial that provides a detailed walk-through 
 of the game's basic elements. There are no variable difficulty settings for the overall game, but 
 the normal game mode does present you with a handful of custom settings that shape the way your 
 career will unfold. The first step is to represent one of four nations -- Spain, England, France, 
 or Holland -- which will determine your hometown and initial reputation among the major powers. The 
 time period option (available in 30-year increments, from 1570 to 1660) determines what the map 
 will look like; in earlier periods, the Spanish will control more colonies than they will in later 
 periods. Finally, you can adjust a series of options that will make you slightly better suited 
 for pirating or for trading.  

  Once you've made those decisions, you're ready to start adventuring, though you'll begin with only 
 a single, defenseless ship with an empty hold and a stack of gold coins. With such lowly beginnings, 
 your weekly expenses are minimal, so it's possible to sit around in port to buy and sell as prices 
 dynamically rise and dip or to build a basic business like a tobacco, sugar, or cocoa plantation. 
 But the real way to make your way in the world is to fill the ship up with cannons or with goods 
 and get to sea.  

          The real-time battles can be played quickly for routine pirating, but you'll need to use 
 tactics for larger fleet engagements.     

  Hunting the high seas isn't easy, but it can be rewarding. Port Royale features an interesting 
 and simple real-time combat system that lets you capture and commandeer enemy ships, and, by recruiting 
 additional crew members, you'll be able to increase the size of your fleet surprisingly quickly. 
 And pirates aren't just general targets -- some infamous pirates have prices on their heads that 
 you can collect if you successfully capture them, and in other cases, you'll be able to ransom 
 captured privateers to their sponsor nations.  

  You can also turn to hunting the armed merchant ships flying national colors. These ships are much 
 more lucrative prey because of the free goods you can seize from their holds, though attacking 
 a nation-sponsored ship damages your reputation. After a few more attacks, ports will start refusing 
 you entry, and after many more attacks, you may find yourself the target of military convoys. But 
 once you can afford to buy a letter of marque and become a deputized privateer, then every bad 
 deed against an enemy nation is repaid with a corresponding increase in reputation with your own. 
 Though you'll find that many settlements close their doors to infamous pirates, Port Royale does 
 give you the option to attack anyone and everyone. It's even possible to play the game as a lawless, 
 bloodthirsty pirate, especially once you discover a map to the pirate hideout (which you can capture 
 for your own use) , but this is a somewhat limited path fraught with many additional challenges. 
     

  At times, trading can seem like a painstaking minigame that's separate and distinct from Port Royale's 
 pirating and adventuring elements, but you don't need to get extremely involved in the game's dynamic 
 economy if you don't want to. At its best, the trading game is a constantly engaging way to make 
 heaps of money, and the fact that the towns can grow (or shrink) as a result of their needs being 
 met (or not) both underscores the importance of trade and forces you to adjust business strategies 
 and trade routes with the shifts in supply and demand. Enlarging your convoy with purchased or 
 captured ships means more cargo space. And since Port Royale lets your character gain levels, like 
 a role-playing game, each time your character gains a level (as a result of success in business, 
 missions, or combat) , you can hire more convoy captains so that you can eventually operate multiple 
 routes, though this does require more effort.  

          The game's random and story-based missions offer a change of pace.     

  For what it's 
 worth, the game provides some tools to manage some business tasks automatically, and the trading 
 interface is as clean and clear as you could hope for. For instance, an important step in establishing 
 your business presence is to build storage facilities in other towns. These buildings can buy and 
 sell inventory within very strict guidelines, and if you set these parameters up properly, you 
 can sell products at a good profit simply by dropping off goods from your ships and having your 
 storage facilities sell it all automatically. The game also lets you set up automatic trade routes 
 to specific towns, which can free up your time and attention for other matters, though you'll often 
 want to check these routes for efficiency and any unexpected events. Managing several trade convoys 
 in real time can often require a level of attention that not all players may want to put into the 
 game.  

  Fortunately, Port Royale offers random and story-based missions as a change of pace from either 
 pirating or trading. At the governor's mansion found in large towns you can find a variety of random 
 missions for profit or an increase in reputation. These missions include simple tasks like taking 
 settlers to an underpopulated town or tracking down a specific pirate. Every town also has an inn, 
 which is a steady source of rather mundane search-and-retrieval missions and of collectible map 
 pieces for the pirate hideout or buried treasure. However, some of the missions are related to 
 a long-running story that involves finding your character's sister, as well as tracking down the 
 pirates that were involved in the deaths of your character's parents. The story is presented simply 
 with a few paragraphs of dense text to read at each step of the way, but it's still rewarding enough 
 the first time through, and the pirate battles that result are big and particularly challenging. 

  Ship-to-ship combat is an everyday affair in the life of an ambitious privateer. The game's tactical 
 combat may seem simple when compared to the combat in specialized games like the Age of Sail series. 
 However, Port Royale's combat has just enough detail to keep the tactics interesting, and many 
 battles are short enough that they let you get back to the main game in a matter of minutes. You 
 can fire on enemy ships with three types of ammunition -- grapeshot, chain shot, and standard cannon 
 balls -- to attack different parts of a ship: the hull, crew, or sails. Interesting features like 
 wind direction and speed control help you maneuver your ships into range to fire salvos without 
 getting hit yourself. The unit AI is good for following enemies and aiming cannons, but it's otherwise 
 problematic; your AI-controlled ships will sometimes get in each other's way and collide. The naval 
 AI also has problems when attacking a town's shore batteries, so if you're trying to plunder a 
 town, you'll often find that it's a better idea to assemble a huge crew armed with muskets and 
 try a land-based attack.  

          With big ships, enough crew, and some luck, you can loot towns to get piles of gold.   
   

  The 3D ship battles are the high point of Port Royale's graphics, but the 2D town and world map 
 views are also generally crisp and detailed. And although the game could have benefited from at 
 least some voice work for the combat or story aspects of the game, the sound effects do a good 
 enough job, and though the game's soundtrack is limited, it helps the hours pass unnoticed. Unfortunately, 
 we did run into some occasional stability problems while playing. You may also find some missions 
 to be frustratingly difficult in unexpected ways -- sometimes they'll be scripted with unreasonably 
 short time limits or with ships that appear only in special circumstances.  

  However, if there is an obstacle that prevents you from really enjoying all that Port Royale has 
 to offer, it's the game's learning curve, which you should hopefully be able to get past in the 
 first few hours. Over time, you'll see how the interface works to streamline both naval trading 
 and patrolling the seas with warships. Even though you may find moments of frustration with the 
 game's missions and its challenging economic model, digging deep into Port Royale provides a varied 
 and open-ended experience -- along with the simple satisfaction of playing as a pirate.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (5 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Everclearules
Rating: 8.1
Date: May 6, 2005 5:05 am PT
Review:  Port Royale, as with quite a few other games, puts you in the Carribbean during the 16th and 17th 
 centuries. However, Port Royale allows you to control numerous convoys of ships (up to 20) to send 
 out to patrol the seas in search of pirates, or to send them on trading missions via trading routes. 
 You can also buy a builders liscense in a few towns and build your own businesses to either sell 
 directly to the town, or store it and allow your ships to trade them with towns in need of it.
 
  
  The graphics are nice, overall, yet not outstanding. Cities look pretty good, all with nice animations 
 for most buildings and citizens and gaurds walking around. The water looks quite good too, with 
 water that reflects ships and also moves up and down imitating waves. Ships look decent though 
 a bit plain and uninteresting. Sound is the same way, nice but not great. They don't hurt the game 
 in any way, though they certainly don't help it any.
  
  The game itself can be quite complicated and requires a decent amount of time to learn how to play 
 it. The tutorial does a decent job of explaining how to do things, but not how to do it well, that's 
 left up to you to figure out and can take quite some time. However, once you do figure it out the 
 game becomes quite entertaining since the game is open-ended and allows you to persue whatever 
 path you want. Wether you want to go about building businesses in a town or hunting down pirates, 
 it's up to you. Port Royale provides you with 60 towns and a fairly large portion of the Carribbean 
 to do this in.
  
  Trading and fighting require you to make convoys, which is a group of up to 10 ships wich requires 
 a captain a minimum crew. If you plan on making a fighting convoy, you'll also have to equip cannons, 
 extra crew for boarding ships, swords, and optionally muskets. However, to get all that you'll 
 have to travel to quite a few different islands and have a pretty deep pockets, and preferably 
 a decent amount of trading convoys bringing in some money. 
  
  Thankfully you won't have to manually control all these convoys and instead can set up patrolling 
 or trading routes. It takes a little while to set one up since you have to add each city you want 
 your convoy to visit from a list, and unless you've memorized every city in the game, you'll probably 
 have to keep switching back and forth between the map and the trading route menu. Thankfully, though, 
 the trading route menu gives a good amount of options to make a trading route that should fit your 
 needs.
  
  After awhile Port Royale can get quite repetitive since there just isn't that much to it. Yes, 
 you can trade numerous items, build buildings, and fight pirates, but there just isn't that much 
 to keep you coming back after you've done each a few times. Still, that won't happen for quite 
 awhile, especially if you only play it in moderation (i. e. not 6 hours at a time) . Port Royale 
 is one of the best Carribbean trading simulations I've played yet, and I'd recommend it to anyone 
 who has an interest of this time period. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: T0I0M7
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 6, 2003 6:01 pm PT
Review:  It's true: this game is extremely complicated and takes hours of play to understand. However, the 
 longer I play it, the more fun it becomes. At first I struggled to make any income, and was stuck 
 with one measly ship. However, there is something of a breakthrough point that occurs after two 
 events.
  
  First, you reach a certain income level which greatly increases your flexibility and allows for 
 larger shipments of goods to be bought and sold. Second, you finally learn about all of the little 
 autopilot features that allow you to make money without micromanaging ever aspect of gameplay. 
 Once those two things occur, the game becomes much more fun.
  
  The graphics and sound are both pretty good, but neither stands out in any way that blows you away. 
 However, for this kind of game, that's fine. They do the job, much in the same way that Civilization 
 has decent graphics that are only there to move along the great gameplay.
  
  And the gameplay is very satisfying once all aspects it become clear. At this point, the amount 
 of fun yet to be had seems huge, and I look forward to many entertainging hours. Again, I started 
 out as a small-time trader, but now that I'm expanding I've got some of my attention focused on 
 trade, and some focused on combat, and the combination is awesome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Oddible
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 9, 2003 3:41 pm PT
Review:  A little Tropico 2, a little Civ, a little Age of Sail and an excellent Caribbean setting make 
 Port Royale overall a very engaging game in the Pirate genre. There are basically 2 tacks you can 
 choose at the beginning of the game, though your choice won't keep you from being involved in both 
 throughout the game. 
  
  The first choice is as a trader and you get bonuses to help your path. As you discover new cities 
 on the various islands around the Caribbean you will see that each has its own production strengths 
 and weaknesses. You buy where a good is being produced and sell where its needed. There are also 
 goods that are only delivered from the host countries - so these will need to be distributed from 
 their point of delivery. As you become accustomed to the prices in your locality, you can set up 
 complex trade routes and set a convoy of ships to automatic. This frees up your time to take on 
 lucrative and influence gaining missions from governors and adventurers in the local tavern. Of 
 course your trade convoys are not just free to sail the open seas, you must fear the pirates.
 
  
  Which brings me to the second path you may chose. That of the privateer. This will give you battle 
 bonuses. Engage pirates who are preying on your country's convoys to increase your influence. Buy 
 a letter of Marque and help your country's war effort by pillaging other countries convoys. The 
 ship to ship battles - though not as complex as Age of Sail - are very exciting. You will want 
 to disarm your trade convoys and set them on auto-fight to cause them to flee in most cases, but 
 your military convoys should be armed to the max and ready for battle. There are some interface 
 tweaks here - despite setting the battle on manual, you cannot always fire when you want to and 
 often your ships will turn course despite your directives. Still, with a bit of strategy and the 
 right wind position, a smaller human fleet can take on larger AI convoys with success and allow 
 you to capture ships well beyond your means. You will soon find that you have more ships than you 
 know what to do with! Well set up a trade convoy to support your large military convoys. 
  
  When I first sat down with this game I found a steep learning curve and a not so complete manual. 
 I began as a trader and quickly got bored with the more tedious trading activity. My advice to 
 anyone trying Port Royale for the first time - don't get bogged down in one activity - there is 
 a lot going on in this game. Visit the inns and take missions, visit the governors help your nation 
 - and very importantly - build an island industry. My first few games could not support the number 
 of ships I had in sail. By building up an island industry, you will still be making money when 
 you lose a ship to piracy. 
  
  One fascinating aspect to this game is the storyline. As you advance in skill, you will be given 
 more and more advanced missions and responsibility from your host nation (s) . Eventually, to win 
 the game, you must win governorship of an island. 
  
  This game also has a multiplayer aspect - which I haven't yet tried. Will conquer the AI first 
 to get my sealegs on then see where we go from there. Despite some minor interface issues (like 
 the misrepresentative word 'Cancel' to close every dialog - doesn't cancel, saves) , I have had 
 few technical issues with this game. I'm currently playing an English buccaneer - I have massive 
 industries in Port Charles and Grand Bahama and a dutch wife. For more details and a great Port 
 Royale community, check the Ascaron forums.
  
  See you on the high seas, matey! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rwmartin
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 16, 2003 10:42 am PT
Review:  Port Royale is a very solid game! But it has a steep learning curve & can be
  frustraing as it's hard to build up any cash at the beginning to buy more ships.
  Also everytime 
 you try to gain access to ports outside of your 2-3 port radious
  your constantly attacted by pirates. As I'm currently letting the computer
  resolve all my sea 
 battles, the best case is I just barely escape with all my 
  ships, usually I lose 1-2 & some goods [ I "have" to learn how to fight the
  battles myself] .
 
  
  The sound is great & the graphics are excellent. You can enter most building &
  talk to someone, find out what they think of you , play a game of chance, etc
  it seems almost 
 endless. The game it self so far hasn't crashed, & is very stable, with 1 exception where after 
 I started a new game instead of playing
  the saved 1 , all my seamen left the ship & I had no one to rehire, ie game over. [on the saved 
 game] But I "think I screwed up restarting the game, so this might not be a problem. 
  
  Play time on this game will be endless, & after learing all the in's & out's
  which I'm no where 
 near at this point will mean more long nights [I've already gone on until 4AM 3 times] this is 
 a hard game to stop playing. My only real
  complaint is the tutorial is all but useless, after trying to do what it ask's for over an hour, 
 with out actually showing you how I gave up & went to the
  game play. This means my learning curve will be longer than it should be.
  
  If you want a 
 game thats hard to actually stop playing, & has a steep learing
  curve you have it in Port Royale.
  
  Regards
  Randy
  P. S. Don't try to contact me I'm to 
 busy playing....... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: csm101
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jun 13, 2003 5:51 pm PT
Review:  Spreadsheets of the Caribbean? I am a big fan of pirate games, and I really wanted to like this 
 title. But there doesn't seem to be much that's piratical; mainly lots, and LOTS of buying, selling, 
 and starting up and running of businesses. The game's learning curve is steep, and the tutorial 
 isn't very helpful. When you do get to the sea battles, the clumsy combat system makes things very 
 frustrating. The graphics are very good, with amazing detail; waves lap up on the beach, and palm 
 trees sway in the wind. Sound is decent as well. Replayability is very good, as the game is completely 
 open-ended. But if you're looking for a good, rollicking pirate game, this ain't it. Wait for Pirates 
 of the Caribbean, or Sid Meier's remake of the classic Pirates! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
