-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Portal
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/portal/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Portal technology is pure mind-bending delight.
 Sublimely witty writing.
 Brilliant song accompanies end credits.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 It's short.
 Like, real short.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr 29, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 9
Critic Score: 8.9, 26 Review (s)
User Score: 9.2, 4,443 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Valve Software
Genre: Sci-Fi First-Person...
Date:     Oct 9, 2007 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
With delightfully unique gameplay and fantastically witty writing, Portal is a huge success. 
 

  When Portal was originally released as part of The Orange Box in October of last year, its uniquely 
 puzzling gameplay and dark, sharp-witted humor thrilled consumers and critics alike. Set in a mysterious 
 scientific facility, Portal introduced players to new ways of moving through the gameworld that 
 challenged their perspective and flexed their spatial awareness. The pitch-perfect voice-over soon 
 became stuff of Internet legend, and the song that played during the end credits was so popular 
 that it has since been released as a downloadable track for Rock Band. The only real complaint 
 that surfaced was that the game ended too quickly. Recently released as a stand-alone retail product, 
 Portal remains a unique gem of a game that packs a huge amount of appeal into a small package. 

  At the outset of Portal, you wake up in a sleeping pod. Rising to the tinny sound of Muzak playing 
 on a radio, you look around your glass-walled cell and notice that there is no door. A sedate, 
 quasi-robotic voice welcomes you to your "relaxation vault," mentions something about "enrichment 
 center activities," and alerts you that a portal will be opening shortly. A moment later, a tall, 
 orange-rimmed oval appears on the wall next you. Looking through the glass to the hallway outside 
 your cell, you notice a similar, blue-rimmed oval. Inside the blue oval stands a woman in an orange 
 jumpsuit who appears to be mimicking your every move. Then you realize that the woman  is  you, 
 and that you are looking at yourself in profile. Stepping through the oval, you find yourself in 
 the hallway outside of the relaxation vault, looking in at where you stood just a moment ago. You've 
 just had your first taste of portals, and it's only going to get weirder from here on out.  

           So if you step through the blue one, you'll come out... where?      

  The first few 
 levels of Portal introduce you to fairly simple applications of portal technology, eventually putting 
 the portal gun in your hands and enabling you to create portals anywhere you like. Well, not  quite 
  anywhere. Certain surfaces are not portal-able, and this is one way that subsequent levels, known 
 as test chambers, become more difficult. Other elements, such as energy balls, weighted cubes, 
 floor switches, and moving platforms, are incorporated into the test chambers in increasingly exacting 
 ways, but the real complexity and the real genius of Portal lie in the challenge of "thinking in 
 portals."  

  Sure, you know that if you place portals here and there, you will enter here and exit there, but 
 what if  here  is the floor 20 feet below you and  there  is a spot high up on the wall? You'll 
 retain your momentum while going through the portal, so entering the floor portal at speed will 
 rocket you out of the wall portal perpendicular to the floor. This has a profound impact on your 
 strategy, but not all portal-thinking is strategic. If you place one portal at your feet and the 
 other on the ceiling overheard, will you fall forever? Or if you put two portals on the floor side 
 by side, could you create a reasonable facsimile of whack-a-mole? The magic of Portal is that it 
 truly does inspire this unique flavor of spatial imagination, and once you get a taste, you'll 
 be delighted to find yourself thinking in portals even when you're not in front of your PC.  

 
  If portal technology is the meat of the game, then GLaDOS is the perfectly paired wine. The omnipresent 
 voice that guides you through the test chambers, GLaDOS initially reveals a dry, almost unintentional 
 sense of humor in the first few test chambers. As you progress, her humor begins to show signs 
 of self-awareness, eventually blossoming into something too hilarious and too well-deployed to 
 spoil here. Suffice it to say, it is one of the chief pleasures of Portal and features some of 
 the best writing in video game history.  

           Speedy thing goes in, speedy thing comes out.      

  For all its heady delights, Portal 
 is a short-lived feast and can be reasonably completed in as little as five hours. To help draw 
 things out a bit, Valve has included six advanced chambers, all of which are existing test chambers 
 tweaked to present a tougher challenge. You can also take on challenge maps and attempt to complete 
 the test chambers with the least number of portals, the least steps, or in the least time. Ever 
 since it was originally released more than six months ago, there has been ample time for the online 
 community to produce a bevy of maps that, though varying in quality, are freely available for any 
 test-chamber-hungry portaler to download. Its Orange Box roots mean that Portal also comes equipped 
 with in-game achievements that can serve to extend its longevity. Nevertheless, the odds are that 
 it'll be over a bit too quickly for your liking.  

  Short as it may be, Portal is a fantastic game that should be played by anyone interested in unique, 
 well-crafted gameplay and a witty, whip-smart script. The stand-alone retail release comes with 
 the same price point as the downloadable Steam release, which is about the cost of a night out 
 at the movies. Portal may not last much longer than some feature films, but pound for pound it 
 remains one of the best games on store shelves.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (239 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: tasty-man
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 15, 2009 7:45 pm PT
Review:  This is no doubt the funniest game I have ever played. Taking setting in the universe of Half-life 
 you awake in a sleep chamber. Only to find out that you are a test subject for a robot with the 
 name of GLaDOS. You start with some simple tasks, such as putting a box on top of a button that 
 opens a door. Of course the game isn't like this all the way through. Eventually you get a gun. 
 No it doesn't shoot bullets but it does something ten times more awesome, it shoots portals. The 
 whole idea of this is that one portal shot will lead to the other portal shot. A task that you 
 must use to complete 20 levels of brain tangling fun. Not only is it a good puzzle but the humor 
 is endless. Throughout the game it seems as if GLados's job is to tell jokes, which after a while 
 will prove to be. If you want a good puzzle game with a ton of humor then this is the game for 
 you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheBatFreak777
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 7, 2009 9:40 pm PT
Review:  When I first saw the info on this game I was pretty excited. I love games with a unique idea and 
 the fact that this was a puzzle game made it all the more enticing.
  
  I simply had a great time with this game. Certainly, this not the type of game that you pick up 
 for the intense story or dynamic interactive elements with other players. Instead, you play this 
 game for its wit and create puzzle style.
  
  The graphics in this game are what you'd expect. They're suitable, music fits and it's not overdone 
 in any way. In fact, it may err only in its simplicity of style more than anything else.
  
  One of my favorite portions of the game is the witty banter that comes from the computer system. 
 They really did a great job here and it really added the "spice" the game needed to really make 
 it great.
  
  I can't give this one a 10 because it was just so short. Yet, I'm definitely glad they took the 
 time to make this one as they knew they had a really cool idea even if it is on the short side.
 
  
  If you're looking for a good game to fit in between one of your other longer quests then this one 
 will certainly be a great catch! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FabulousGamer90
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 8, 2009 5:59 am PT
Review:  Portal is very unique. For a start, it's a first person game with a large emphasis on puzzles and 
 platforming rather than killing everything in sight; and it's also a truly funny game, something 
 not seen very often these days. Portal introduces a new method for you to move through your surroundings 
 in ways never seen before in a game, which test your reflexes and more significantly, your brains.
 
  
  Set in the Half-Life universe, Portal intertwines (very slightly) with the aftermath of the resonance 
 cascade in Half-Life 1, but you wouldn't really know this if you don't pay close attention. In 
 Portal you play an entirely uncharacterised person named Chell; a prisoner in the Aperture Science 
 research facility. You're given a gun that creates portals on surfaces and allows you to travel 
 through them around the levels, and each level is a test of your brains to figure out just how 
 exactly to get from point A to point B. There are many objects in your way, sometimes even death 
 traps, and you need to simply reach the end of the level by careful, quick uses of the portal gun. 
 Using portals is pretty simple; you just shoot one on a surface near you, which is the entrance; 
 and then another somewhere else to act as your exit. Then you walk through the entrance portal 
 and come out wherever you put the other. Using portals to travel through levels is remarkably smooth 
 and satisfying, giving a completely new and innovative way to use the environment to your advantage 
 and complete your tasks.
  
  Portal would be best described as a first person puzzle platformer, very different from most other 
 first person games, as you don't actually 'kill' anything in the course of the game, unless you 
 count machines. It's different, it makes you think, the gameplay is satisfying  and to top it 
 off, the writing is genuinely witty. You're guided by a computerized voice named GlaDos the whole 
 way through the tests, who doesn't really help you much, but rather presents you with some really 
 funny lines. The monotone voice saying these comical lines makes it even more amusing, and personifies 
 her as hugely memorable character despite not even having a body. The game draws you in with its 
 wacky humour, some of which includes GlaDos expecting you to become emotionally attached to an 
 inanimate cube which you are then ordered to incinerate, and her empty promises of cake when you 
 complete your tests. She also sings over the end credits.
  
  In the end, Portal's only glaring fault is how short it is. Yes, the price-versus-length ratio 
 works out as very reasonable, and you should definitely buy it on Steam. But the game is over just 
 when it feels that it's getting started. It can be finished by most in about 3 hours, and the game 
 isn't very replayable. However, Portal is a completely unique experience which is worth a look 
 for anyone wanting something other than an ordinary shooter.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GG-raaaaiiiiiii
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 1, 2009 4:01 pm PT
Review:  This is one of those rare games that will make you feel warm and fuzzy inside upon completion. 
 It makes you feel like you really did something amazing, like you're the next Einstein. It's hard 
 to think of a game with such a satisfying ending, and it helps that the song in the credits is 
 one of the most spectacular parts of the game.
  
  The gameplay is unique and simplistic, yet so much can be accomplished by creating two portals 
 to travel through. The puzzles are creative and engaging. Some of them can be solved in unique 
 ways that the creators probably never even imagined, which is awesome.
  
  The most amazing aspect of the game is the story. It is hard to think of a puzzle game that has 
 a story, much less a terrific one. You find yourself not only wanting to play the game for the 
 puzzles, but to find out what happens at the end.
  
  Lots of the negative comments about the game have resulted from the game not being particularly 
 long if you just beat it once. However, the game really shines for me in the extra challenges. 
 Some of them are insanely difficult and make you think. Even as I write this, I haven't finished 
 all of the challenges, but I go back every once in a while to try some of them.
  
  
  Overall, Portal is one of the best puzzle games of all time. It brings a lot of unique elements 
 for a puzzle game, such as a first-person perspective and a good story, and combines them into 
 a solid puzzler. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Inertia
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 1, 2009 10:55 am PT
Review:  Recently downloading this game again from steam I decided I would take this as my first chance 
 to do a real in-depth review of a game; here is my attempt at real amateur game review. 
  
  Portal was a new unique and puzzling experience back on release day April last year but still until 
 this day it retains its playability; the source engine heeding the graphics way ahead of its time, 
 keeping up with even today's high graphical standard, the gameplay is still unique as nothing like 
 it has been released since and the games overall experience is kept well polished by updates provided 
 by Steam.
  
  Set in a scientific research facility, Portal challenges players using a new way for movement in 
 First person shooters that provides the way technical puzzles that require a great thought process 
 to complete. Thinking with portals at first is hard as it's a experience never seen before from 
 the first level you are edged into the game through a series of challenges. The first few challenges, 
 or test chambers, have a great pacing a time to get used to the game mechanics. The first of the 
 test chambers introduce you to the portal technology mechanic effectively at a steady pace and 
 by the 10th test chamber you are ready to tryout you thinking ability in the real test chambers 
 that will later, after finishing the main game, you come back to completing a number of challenges.
 
  
  You are followed throughout the game by a ever watching machine named GLaDOS, her voice accompanies 
 you through the test chambers guiding you on your way, this character is one you will get to know 
 and eventually start to see the characteristics of GLaDOS; her odd humour provides the potential 
 for a dark hilarity which it successfully delivers.
  
  Portal's success is short-lived unfortunately as the game can last from as little as 2 hours from 
 start to finish. This is not helped by re-playability being almost no existent, although the game 
 has other challenges that are unlocked after completing the game, such as 'advanced chambers' which 
 is the previous test chambers revamped to make them more difficult with some parts of the walls 
 and ceilings where it's not possible to place a portal and other difficulties added to them and 
 challenges that are to complete a test chamber in a certain amount of portals or steps and time.
 
  
  Released on a multitude of platforms including the PC, this is where the game lives up to its full 
 potential as the mouse and keyboard combo which, in my opinion, is more easily manoeuvrable then 
 the analogue sticks of PS3 and Xbox. The controls are easy to use and there are no problems involving 
 them just the standard FPS controls which are easily changed in the main menu if required.
  
  This game overall comes together beautifully as a whole but falls short when it comes to the 
 re-playability and longevity as it is ridiculously short but the gameplay while it lasts is a great 
 experience, the character GLaDOS kept me laughing throughout the game with her mysterious humour 
 and the use of the portal technology was a new and unique to any gamer. Portal isn't exactly a 
 expensive game and is definitely worth the money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Naikori
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 15, 2009 3:47 pm PT
Review:  When Valve announced that they were going to release Portal, everyone was excited. The gameplay 
 altered anything that you would see from any Puzzle game. Portal is very Unique and will have you 
 thinking more than any Puzzle game avalable.
  
  Pros and Cons:
  + Unique Gameplay.
  + Makes you think.
  + Achievements.
  + A great amount of replayability.
  + Your not using 
 a gun with Bullets in it.
  + Each map is detailed. 
  + Perfect Physics.
  
  - Only 19 missions.
  
  You start out in the game in a glass box. You hear a voice from a robot 
 who goes by the name of GLaDoS. She guides you throughout the game. Once you get out of your little 
 box, you have a gun with you, but it isn't a gun that has bullets in it. It's called a Portal Gun. 
 You left or right click to shoot out different Portals. You start out by shotting one Portal, but 
 you get to shoot two Portals. That's when the game gets challenging.
  
  You have to colored Portals. One is blue, and the other is orange. If you shot a Orange Portal 
 in one area and a blue in another and you went through the blue Portal, you will come out of the 
 Orange Portal, and Vice-Versa.
  
  You have two Main Objectives. The First is for every Map, which is to get to the elevator. The 
 other Objective is to find GLaDoS. The ending is pretty cool, so try to play the game for yourself. 
 
  
  There are only three things in the game that would kill you. The first is falling from a certain 
 height. The second is a electric ball. The third is Androids, which shoot Bullets at you. Your 
 able to kill Androids by simpley picking the up, and putting them down.
  
  There really is no set Difficulty. The Puzzles are Difficult for yourself. On your first go at 
 Portal, you'll most likely spend 6-10 hours on the Story. If you want to earn some of the Steam 
 Achiviments, the Story Mode will take you about 2-4 hours, since you would already have an idea 
 what to do. Or, you would just like to find the secret cake. 
  
  The Graphics are beautiful. They are game that surpass this games Graphics, but they are still 
 beautiful. 
  
  Voice Acting for GLaDoS is really trumendous. When it malfunctions, it will sound exactly like 
 a machine malfunctioning. When she is happy, she will sound happy. It's just purley amazing.
  
  All of this is put into Portal, and it is such a Perfect game. The unique Gameplay is Amazing 
 and the game will make you think as hard as you can. Sometimes you might need to look at Walkthroughs 
 to get past levels! Portal is a must have for any Gamer, wether you like games with First-Person 
 Prespectiveness, or you just love solving hard puzzles. 
  
  Portal is truely Revolutionary. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tyskenfan
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 8, 2009 11:26 pm PT
Review:  First off, I have to say that I bought the orange box and got Portal included. But I just wanted 
 to review Portal as a stand alone game, although I don't consider it (though many other players 
 do) as a full and separate stand alone game.
  
  I am not going to describe the games plot and game play any more deeper. All one has to know is 
 that you play a young women who has to complete 19 rooms containing different puzzles by using 
 a gun that can shoot portal gates. 
  
  One who hasn't played the game yet may find that sounding extremely boring. I have to admit that 
 I thought that too before I started playing. But unlike anything else, this game has an addicting 
 charm similar to games like Guitar Hero or Pokemon (okay that may be a bit to exaggerated, but 
 it's true) .
  
  Once you learn how to use your portal gun and started solving some of the first puzzles, you will 
 start to find it funny and entertaining. That keeps you wanting more and more. As soon as you have 
 solved one puzzle, you want to solve the next one, and the next one and so on. 
  
  Sometimes it can get extremely frustrating if you are stuck and have no clue how to continue. But 
 if you stay calm and think for some minutes and finally solve the puzzle (*you will often scream 
 out loud: "Oh yes, of course!!! Why haven't I thought of it before??" XD*) you will find it was 
 so simple and obvious that you almost feel ashamed of your stupidity XD 
  
  Also, this game evolves with time and gradually you will notice the story behind the puzzles and 
 a big plot twist awaits ;-) One hint: Always think of the cake, and you will have a reason to finish 
 the game!!! XD 
  
  Yes, many players have been complaining about the games length. I too wanted to have more puzzles. 
 They just made me so addicting to the game, I couldn't get enough. I just wanted more, give me 
 more puzzles to solve ^^ 
  
  But since I am not considering the game as a stand alone version, but a nice add-on for The orange 
 box, I find it quite worth playing. Go ahead and try it. It is definitely something you haven't 
 seen before ;-) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nothang2
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 27, 2009 4:47 pm PT
Review:  This is a really great game. It has to be one of my best, but there's only one issue with it: really 
 really short. It took me a weekend to start and finish it, although it was all I was doing at the 
 time. Great value, seeing how you can get it at Target for $10. There are more maps you can download, 
 but they don't work for mine. Another thing that is great about it is that the computer talking 
 to you is really funny. The plot is sublime and integrated into what the computer is saying, and 
 although that may not seem like much, they could have not included a story at all; just make it 
 a puzzle game. The bonuses rock if you want to cheat, although for some reason you just can't knock 
 a turret over with a machine gun. I found it to be a great value, but I think it might be better 
 if you buy the Orange Box, because in that package it effectively only costs $6, plus all those 
 other games. And there is something to be said for shooting yourself in the head (yes, that's possible) . 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fluteboy95
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 24, 2009 6:09 pm PT
Review:  JK, but even so, there isn't any until the very. . . interesting ending. GLADos is a funny robot 
 that somehow manages to be sarcastic, sadictive, mevacing, and jovial, all without much change 
 in voice patterns. 
  There isn't that much to say about this game yet it somehow manages to pull your mind in and test 
 you in strange echochrome like ways. Echochrome is a mind bending game on the PS3. The portals 
 and there testchambers make up most of the game, but it all comes into play in the final and only 
 boss fight.
  Portal really amazed technically and voice wise. And considering there's only one actress this 
 is quite an achievment. There's really not much to say, this games maniacally evil sense of humor 
 is fantastic to the end.
  Even the gunbots manage to produce laughs, their cute questions of "Where are you? Are You Still 
 There?" provide shock when you turn a corner and they blow the H E Double Hockey sticks out of 
 you if you know what I mean.
  This games maniacal sense of humor resounds till the end of the games thrilling fast-paced ending. 
 This game is a must for all gamers.
  Be warned though, when you get shot there are very large amounts of blood that you loose, that 
 blood ends up all over the walls. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stevewins1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 15, 2009 1:16 pm PT
Review:  If there's any word out there that could be used to quickly describe this game, it would be "stunning." 
 Portal is a game that's unique in its own way, yet is still beautiful. Almost everything is perfect 
 about this game: the music, the controls, the game play, the graphics, and the storyline. When 
 you play Portal, you'll find yourself engrossed in the levels, which range from easy, to difficult, 
 and basic, to confusing. No matter what skill level you have, you would still find this game amazing. 
 The beginning levels are nice and easy, giving even novice players good training for later levels. 
 You don't need to waste time sitting through one of those pesky tutorials with this game, you learn 
 the basics when you start, and you pick up new techniques as you progress. However, the surprising 
 thing about this game is that even if you're an expert gamer, or have played through the game multiple 
 times, you still get some pleasure playing through easy, beginning levels.
  
  The Story
  The game begins in what seems to be a closed glass room. The radio is playing some type of music, 
 and there is a timer on the wall that seems to be counting down from one minute, but for an unknown 
 reason. The game gives a short period of time to get used to the basic controls, and to look around. 
 When there's about 30 seconds left on the wall timer, a female voice comes onto the intercom, and 
 starts speaking about what you're doing there. She starts off by saying something about how you're 
 involved in a test, but doesn't expand on that point. After that, and throughout the rest of the 
 game script too, she states that serious injury may occur from participating in the test, but that 
 the primary goal is to have fun, and to enjoy delicious cake after you're done. However, also throughout 
 the whole game, there is the phrase "The Cake Is a Lie" smeared on multiple walls with blood. All 
 of these points challenge whether or not the female voice, (named GLaDOS) is on your side or not, 
 which adds to the suspense of the game, and the engrossing storyline. After GLaDOS' little introduction, 
 a portal leading out of the glass room which is containing you opens, and you can leave the room. 
 At this beginning time, you do not possess the portal gun, but a few levels later, you obtain it. 
 The gun allows you to do what the whole game is about, which is shooting portals. Overall, the 
 story is amazing, and is really entertaining. The way that the game contradicts itself by promising 
 cake, and then stating that it's a lie really adds to the suspense, and makes you want to play 
 more and more so you can figure everything else about the story out.
  
  The Portal Gun
  The portal gun, as you should be able to tell from its name, is a device that allows you to shoot 
 portals. When the gun is fully upgraded, you'll be able to shoot two portals; a blue one and an 
 orange one. When both portals are in place where you want them to be, you'll be able to step, drop, 
 or jump through one portal, and then come out another. The game follows some physics rules, and 
 the most recognizable one that it follows is "Speedy thing goes in, speedy thing comes out." Basically, 
 what that means is that if you jump from a high distance into a portal on the ground, you'll come 
 speeding out of the second portal just as fast. That adds more realism to the game, as well as 
 the fact that you'll need to consider it to get through more advanced levels. By using the multiple 
 portal techniques, you'll be able to cross large gaps, access new areas, bypass dangerous turrets, 
 defeat enemies, and more! It all just takes some training and some getting used to. However, there 
 is a catch to ensure that the game has an actual challenge. You can't shoot portals in all places, 
 just some. Places that can not have portals shot at them are marked, so you'll be able to tell 
 the difference between places that portals can be, and places that they can't be. The challenge 
 that this delivers is just right, and adds to the fun!
  
  Achievements
  After you've played through the game once, you can look at the achievements menu. This menu basically 
 lists multiple challenges for you to try and accomplish. Some examples of achievements are "Friendly 
 Fire," where you need to knock down one turret with another, "Camera Shy," where you need to knock 
 down all security cameras in the game, "Terminal Velocity," where you need to manage to fall thirty 
 thousand feet, and more! In total, there are fourteen achievements to accomplish, and some can 
 be very easy, but some can also be extremely difficult. Overall, the achievements are a nice feature 
 that has been added to the game. They add lots of extra playtime on to the game, and provide a 
 motive to play through multiple times.
  
  Bonus Maps & Developer Commentary
  Completing most of the bonus maps in the game is another one of the fourteen achievements. In total, 
 there are twelve bonus maps. Six of them are "Advanced Chambers," and six are "Challenge Maps." 
 The bonus maps are basically edited versions of chosen, original levels from the game. For example, 
 one advanced chamber was of a regular level, but with turrets that could not be disabled. Therefore, 
 getting through the level was much harder, as you would need to dodge all of the turrets, instead 
 of disabling them like you would in the normal level. On the other hand, challenge maps are much 
 different. Instead of editing the levels, the levels are the exact same. The hard thing about them 
 is that they have limits on either how many portals you can shoot, how many steps you can take, 
 or how much time you can use. When you pick one of the six challenge maps, you'll the need to pick 
 one of the three that you'd like to try and accomplish. Will you play through the level with a 
 limit on time, steps, or portals? Because of these limits, you need to strategize, and think in 
 advance so that you can actually make it through without passing the limit. Overall, bonus maps 
 are an extremely difficult extra challenge that's been added onto the game. They would even challenge 
 the expert gamers. In my opinion, trying to accomplish the challenges that they present is quite 
 fun, and can take up a lot of time.
  
  One of the final features that are in the game is developer commentary. On all of the 19 levels, 
 the developers have put in some type of commentary that can play in the background while you're 
 playing through the level. This commentary can be quite interesting if you listen to it in detail, 
 as it can tell reasons why levels are made the way they are. The commentary can also reveal the 
 history of the level, how it has evolved, and other wishes that they had for the level. You can 
 actually learn a lot by listening to the commentary, so it's a nice feature, especially for people 
 that like to know lots of things about games.
  
  The Sound
  The sound and music is great. GLaDOS' voice was well done, and really does sound like the computer 
 it was supposed to sound like. I believe that the voice actors did extremely well with this game. 
 The sound effects are also done really well too. The sound of the turrets shooting at you actually 
 makes the fact that they're shooting evident, even if you're looking away from them, and the bullets 
 aren't hitting you. The portal gun also has its own unique sound effect that occurs whenever you 
 shoot a portal. While there isn't really that much to say about the sound specifically, I can conclude 
 that it was done extremely well, and it definitely assists in the stunning outcome of the game.
 
  
  The music and speech in the game are also great. The ending song, "Still Alive" by Jonathan Coulton 
 was written exclusively for the game, and can be heard after you beat the final boss, while the 
 credits are playing. The song is quite popular, and it's unique because it's sung by GLaDOS. The 
 song is based off of the events of the game, so if you listen to it or read the lyrics before you 
 beat the whole game, it wouldn't make that much sense to you. However, if you listen to it or read 
 it after you've beaten the final boss, everything, or almost everything should make sense to you.
 
  
  The speech in the game should be payed close attention to, as it's quite humorous, and often assists 
 with the storyline. GLaDOS often pipes in to say things as you progress through the levels, whether 
 it be warnings of what negative effects the test can bring, warnings of what not to do during the 
 test, explanations of new features that have been added to your gun, or other things. Near the 
 end of the game, I think that her comments seem to be more humorous and entertaining. The turrets 
 also say some interesting things when they spot you, when they lose sight of you, and when they're 
 knocked over. For example, when they're disabled, one of the things that they might say is "Your 
 business is appreciated," and when they spot you, they might say "Dispensing product." They have 
 a long line of possible things to say, so them talking never really gets old.
  
  Graphics
  The graphics in the game are actually quite good, and have lots of detail. In the game's 
 options, you can choose whether you want Low, Medium, High, or Very High detail, depending on what 
 your graphics card can handle. Most players should have no trouble with "Very High" detail, as 
 I can run the game just fine on "Very High" with only a HP 128MB video card, made by neither NVIDIA 
 or ATI. (For those who don't know what that means, I basically just said that my card is an extremely 
 low quality card compared to other ones which are made today.) If you're really having a lot of 
 trouble playing it, you can choose to size the game down, and just play in a window, rather than 
 full screen. In the game, no matter what options you pick, there is still a good amount of detail 
 that makes playing seem quite enjoyable and realistic. There is sufficient texture in all areas, 
 and everything looks really nice.
  
  Controls
  The controls are really quite easy to learn, and by the end of the first few levels you likely 
 will have mastered them. The game is in a first person view, and you look around by moving the 
 mouse. If the mouse movement is too sensitive for your liking, or not sensitive enough, you can 
 change the sensitivity in the options so that everything works well for you. Aside from the mouse, 
 you only use about 7 buttons on the keyboard that are easy to reach because they're all around 
 the same area on the keyboard. Another good point is that you would never end up using all of the 
 keyboard buttons at the same time. Therefore, the controls aren't really confusing at all. To shoot 
 the two different portals, you use the left and right mouse keys.
  
  Playtime and Replay Value
  Like all things, nothing can be perfect, and that includes this game. 
 As much as I want it to be, it can't be perfect. In this game, the one problem is its length. The 
 game is longer then a demo, yet I wouldn't say it's long enough to be considered a whole game. 
 I'd say that the original game, without completing all of the bonus levels and achievements, only 
 takes about three or four hours to play through. Luckily, it's a very addicting game, so it will 
 really make you want to replay it over and over, and then there are the bonus maps to keep you 
 entertained. It's a great game, and I would definitely recommend it, but I guarantee that it'll 
 leave you drooling for a sequel.
  
  Cool:
  - Addictive
  - Great sound, control, story, music
  - Extremely fun
  - Cool features
  - Good for all levels 
 of gamers
  
  Could be Better:
  - The length of the game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mechatac
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 26, 2009 8:59 pm PT
Review:  As someone who isn't a fan of shooters, they fact that I like Portal signifies something odd here. 
 I played the 360 version and actually didn't like Half-Life 2 very much at all and haven't gotten 
 a chance to try Team Fortress due to having no friends (just kidding, I meant friends whom I can 
 play TF2 with) . Portal is actually the reason I got a 360 and I must say it was well worth it.
 
  
  First, the length, 4 or less hours, is perfect. As a result, it never feel like a gimmick deigned 
 to force gameplay on the player It's a great length and goes to prove that a game doesn't have 
 to pack in gameplay hours artificially and can be short and be way better than games that do force 
 uneeded gameplay on the player.
  
  Next, while it is a puzzle game, it neither holds your hand nor comes up with ridiculous solutions 
 that no normal person would ever figure out. As a result, we get a good brain teaser that is never 
 insulting to its audience by either telling them what to do or by being infuriating. Things might 
 take trial and error, but when the portal gun is this much fun, you're likely to spend time just 
 playing with and making the sentries talk by taking them through the de-phaser barrier.
  
  Which brings me to my next point, the humor. This is not a game that relies on lower forms of comedy 
 like sex jokes or pop-culture references. In a reversal, it's made its own pop-culture references 
 (The cake is a lie, the weighted companion cube, the sentries, GLaDOS, etc) . The humor is exactly 
 the opposite of the pretty white rooms you're in for the testing, it's pitch black and downright 
 hilarious. It never gives away the story at huge chunks, but it makes you question "WTF is going 
 here?" and just gives you another reason to keep going to the end (if the awesome gameplay wasn't 
 already enough) . The great voice acting helps this along, you may be likely to spend more doing 
 strange things to get sound bits or to test out the portal gun simply because it's so much fun. 
 Added commentary is also a nice view into the game and how it got to its state of perfection.
 
  
  In the end, for $20, you get a game with a great gameplay mechanic idea that also happens to be 
 executed to perfection. A short game without added padding. A great comedy in the ways of dark 
 humor. One of the best games ever made, all for $20. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jsurfer200
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 26, 2009 6:44 am PT
Review:  "WHOA!", "WOW", "OH SNAP!", "YING!", "YEAH!!!!"
  
  Those are the kind of sounds you are bound to hear yourself making while you play portal for the 
 first time.
  
  As the game starts, you wake to find yourself in a small clear pod containing a bed, toilet, and 
 a table with a radio. Suddenly you hear a computerized female voice welcoming you to the Apature 
 Science Enrichment Center. She tells you a portal will appear in 543..21. Suddenly an oval with 
 an orange outlining appears on the wall. In it, you see another person standing and staring at 
 a similar oval. After a second, you realize that that person is you. You turn to the right and 
 see yourself again, but this time in a blue oval, located right outside the pod. You step through 
 the orange portal and come out of the blue one.
  
  From this moment on, you are hooked.
  
  The first few stages are about explaining how portals work. A couple of stages later, you get 
 the ability to fire blue portals, which always lead to the same orange portal. Soon, you are given 
 an upgrade so that you may fire both the blue and orange portals. You then begin to learn more 
 advanced portal techniques and move from test chamber to test chamber. Each chamber get a little 
 more difficult, yet it never becomes too frustrating.
  
  The robotic AI, named GlaDos, constantly talks to you, giving you instructions and advice. The 
 writing for GlaDOS is perfect. For the most part, it is humorous and somewhat dark. "Please note 
 that we have added a consequence for failure. Any contact with the chamber floor will result in 
 an 'unsatisfactory' mark on your official testing record, followed by death. Good luck!"
  
  There is not very much narrative to this game, but what little story the game tells is epic. I 
 can't really give to much away without spoiling it, but lets just say that there is a whole lot 
 more to Apature Science and GlaDOS that you won't discover until later in the game.
  
  My only real complaint to this game is that it is too short. I beat it the day after I got it. 
 To add playtime, the PC version comes with 6 "Advanced Chambers". These are basicly 6 chambers 
 from the single player game, but with a twist. Also, there is the option to play through the game 
 with a developer's commentary, which is pretty interesting. (I am halfway through it already) Also, 
 you can play challange mode, in wich you replay level while trying to make as few portals as possible. 
 But even with these additions the game still feels short.
  
  Luckily, Portal supposts custom levels. (and there are hundreds of them on the interweb) So you 
 never really have to run out of portal levels.
  
  Overall, I can describe this game with one word: Epic. This is one of the best games evereven 
 if you do have to mess with seam 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shy_Guy_Red
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 6, 2009 7:29 pm PT
Review:  Because Portal is I assume 10-15$ (Orange Box is 5 games so 60 / 5 = somewhere between 10 and 15) 
 the game is very simple yet very fun and addicting with a brilliant new concept that is, the portal 
 gun.
  
  The whole game is surrounded around this portal gun. You shoot portals which you must use to solve 
 puzzles to get to the end of each level. That's it, that's the whole game.
  
  The game is very simple yet the portal gun makes it all great. Getting to shoot Portals is really 
 really cool, and lots of times it's great to just shoot portals and look through them and just 
 be like, "Wow, I'm seeing through that Portal over there," or, "Hey! That's me! I'm in 2 places 
 at once!" The whole Portal concept is amazing and it really makes the game a lot of fun.
  
  The last level is especially good because of the fact that there's actually suspense and mysterious 
 and it really makes you scared in the last level knowing that others are out there and it's only 
 a matter of time before you run into them and that you're about to face the final boss who toys 
 with you constantly throughout the game.
  
  The only problem this game has is the length. The game is literally only 19 levels (though the 
 last level could count as 3 levels it's so long) and each level only takes you about 5-10 minutes 
 to beat. Now I know the game is only 10 dollars, but come on, you could beat the game in about 
 3 hours, that's WAY too short, that's extremely short, and I don't like it.
  
  There is no music though this is used only to make you feel more isolated, and suspenseful which 
 it does well. The graphics are great, no complaints from me.
  
  The story isn't there but picks up at the last level. I do wish that they had hinted more at the 
 epic last level in the earlier levels and I felt the story just kind of jumped out too fast, and 
 would've liked to see it build up over the levels rather than just all be at the end.
  
  Overall, Portal is one of the games I've had the most fun with. The Portal gun is amazing and makes 
 the game feel incredible and the story is actually very good despite picking up late. It's a must 
 buy and I recommend it for all despite the length. The experience is just that amazing.
  
  Overall Score: 9.25 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sam3231
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 2, 2009 10:18 am PT
Review:  Portal is another source engine game where you use a portal device to help you progress through 
 the game. The object of the game is to complete a test consisting of several puzzles, according 
 to a female voice that is supposedly watching you throughout the test.
  
  The graphics are those you would expect of most source engine games - - pretty good. The engine 
 is getting a little outdated but valve have proven time and time again to pump out solid games 
 using the same engine. The music in the game is very good, and accurately fits the situation the 
 player is in. 
  
  As the player progresses through the game, the player realizes that there is more to the game than 
 just solving puzzles. A humorous yet awkward storyline develops. Several times I found myself thinking 
 "wow, this game is pretty funny." or something of that caliber. Although a solid storyline, it 
 felt quite rushed and somewhat empty feeling as the game only lasted approximately 3 hours. It 
 disappoints me because with such an original approach and unique storyline to a game, this could 
 have been so much more than just one sit down in front of the pc.
  
  In terms of replayability, it's basically non-existent. I've played demos that have more replayability 
 factors than this, the "I want to come back for more" factor is long missing. There are a few advanced 
 levels which don't take long to beat, and some other challenges that may satisfy some, but you're 
 probably not going to want to play through portal again after beating it once. While the game seems 
 intriguing and random one time through, its nothing better than linear the second.
  
  But aside from that, this is a solid game and probably well worth your purchase if your looking 
 for a 3 hour fix. If you're looking for a deep, difficult puzzle game that will takes hours upon 
 hours to beat, avoid at all costs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johnhart566
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 26, 2008 12:18 pm PT
Review:  in this game you can make portals on any thing and cause things to fall through you can make enemies 
 or just useless objects move where ever you want. this game was a fun experience for me and my friends 
 and we think its the funniest in the series. it have good graphics and great game play but it needs 
 to get better graphics and more levels to make it harder for expert players. this is one of the 
 best games i have ever played and i hope they make a second one. This game has been enjoyable and 
 fun i hope they make more games like this and i hope they make them soon but until then ill stick 
 to this one. I have enjoyed reviewing this game and i will review more games over time soon but 
 until then good bye and happy holidays. please tell me if you find more games like this if you do 
 email me at John_hart54@hotmail. com thanks and bye for now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cloud_Tifa_seph
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 16, 2008 1:27 pm PT
Review:  The Good: New gameplay mechanics, not a run-and-gun game, requires SOME brain power to figure out; 
 PC Version is open to new custom map packs.
  
  The Bad: Can be VERY difficult at points, specially if you aren't thinking at high brain capacity.
 
  
  -------------------------
  
  The game 'Portal' re-introduced games where there was more to do than run forward, shoot some guys, 
 run forward, grab a medkit, shoot some more guys, (repeat, not necesarialy in that order.) Portal 
 isn't a killing game. At points there are turrets, but they are introduced as funny characters, 
 saying 'I Don't Blame You' and the likes when disabled. I have troube finding anything to nitpick 
 about this game. THere are even challenge maps, featuring the same chambers with different obstacles, 
 including 'Least Steps', 'Least Portals,' And 'Least Time'.
  
  I score Portal with a Perfect 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jimmywire1996
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 12, 2008 4:28 pm PT
Review:  THE GOOD: Clean shiny graphics, unique, excellent music, well crafted test puzzles, great boss battle, hilarious 
 dialouge, tons of replay value
  
  THE BAD: just a little bit short
  
  Graphics: when you boot up this game you'll be amazed, its not on the technical level of gears of 
 war or fallout 3 but theres an excellent contrast in the colours much like mirrors edge theres 
 not just gun metal gray and dog dhit brown, the aperture science labs have aclean, polished, shiny 
 look to them and the contrast from going to white to bright orange keeps your eyes happy,
  
  Story: There are no cutscenes in this game you figuire it out through glados' speeches and notes 
 scribed in blood left by others this is similiar to system shock 2 with its audio messages left 
 by former crew members and you'll have no interactions with fellow humans, although the game doesn't 
 try to be creepy it does non the less, with your closest human interaction is reading the messages 
 of others, the script is charming funny witty and clever with my personal favourites been the gun 
 turrets that speak in cute high pitched voices.
  
  Gameplay: if you were to talk to an fps fan about a puzzle game they would probably turn up there 
 nose at it, but this game bears an uncanny resemblence to half life 2 obv because it runs on the 
 same engine but there is just enough action to keep ppl intrested throughout, id never played a 
 puzzle game before i picked this up and this definately satisfied my trigger finger. Youll face 
 multiple challenges throughout such as powering up machines, destroying gun turrets and so on, the 
 best part though for me is when you start to rebel against glados its very fun to listen to here 
 reactions as she changes from angry to desperate to sarcastic but the best part is by far the ending 
 boss battle its worth playing just for that alone. valve has also thrown in some achivements and 
 additional test chamebers to add depth to this relitavely short game which i beet in under 6 hours
 
  
  Sound: Theres only a few musical scores in this game but they kick in at just the right time to 
 hit you with a range of different emotions, anywhere from sending chills down your spine to giving 
 you a sense of duty and rebeliosnous and voice acting is handled brilliantly with voices reflecting 
 the machines that are talking.
  
  Conclousion: With a great sense of isolation, humor and fear portal is a must by for anyone whos 
 looking for a quick, fun orgy of entertainment dont hesitate buy this NOW!!!!!1 
::::::

::::::
UserName: muthacomputer
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 7, 2008 5:52 pm PT
Review:  Portal is one of those games that make you appreciate you have a brain. Seriously. I mean it's 
 easy to make a game about shooting at aliens (or is it?) . But creating a puzzle game like this? 
 I seriously can't express how much I love this game in a short review.
  
  I actually bought this on the PC (via Steam) and recently for the PS3. And if I get an Xbox 360 
 (that I'm seriously debating doing) , I might even spend some overpriced Microsoft points and get 
 the arcade version of Portal: Still Alive for the extra levels. But I must admit, playing the game 
 with a mouse and keyboard is so much better. Which is why I writing this review today via the PC 
 link.
  
  If you haven't picked up any games in a long time, pick this one up this holiday season. You won't 
 regret it.
  
   
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamemas10
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 3, 2008 7:20 pm PT
Review:  Firstly i have to say ... I am so sorry companion cube. Play this game if you want to know about 
 the cake. Portal, oh man just saying brings back memories of... sorry give me a moment to say sorry 
 to my companion cube. I love you companion cube. Okay moving on. This game tries to be funny and 
 well it succeeds. The game play, controls, graphics all great. The concept is new and inventive. 
 I like the fact that it makes you think, I don't know about you but I like to think and most games 
 these days don't do that. The game tries to be funny and well it succeeds. It really draws you 
 in and makes connect to everything in the game. And even when you do beat the game there are challenges 
 for more extra fun. Plus the build-up leads to a great end. So good job Valve. Oh also I really 
 need a sequel, please Valve please!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Toriko42
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 2, 2008 4:20 pm PT
Review:  Portal is Valve's 2007 sleep hit that garnered massive acclaim and became AAA title seemingly overnight. 
 There was little fanfare leading up to the game but when it finally arrived and people got to finally 
 play it it was celebrated is being one of the most innovative games to come in a long time. There 
 is no disputing this fact. Portal is a highly innovative game and provides a great blend of puzzle 
 and platforming gameplay. It has a unique concept and it's well executed. The game though by no 
 means is AAA title. It is far too short and the campaign is boring to say the least until the last 
 level. Despite this though Portal is bound to give people some delight but it didn't do enough 
 for me to make it anything special.
  
  The story of Portal is simple and good for what the game is. You're an unnamed test subject who 
 gets armed with a portal device and you basically platform through the levels with the help of 
 a computer called Glados. The game takes off from there with about 19 levels to play through. All 
 in all the game will take you about 2-3 hours to complete at the maximum. The major problem with 
 the campaign though is simply how boring it is. Most of the first levels are tutorial levels and 
 the ones up to around level 15 are just terrible. At level 15 they begin to get challenging and 
 fun and the game gets a lot sharper overall. This makes the game feel slow and stale. At the end 
 of the game, you then get advanced chambers and challenges you can do. Sadly there are no leaderboards 
 oddly enough... Overall the game is not worth the 19.99 if you just want to play the single player 
 once but if you enjoy time trials you might get your moneys worth here. 
  
  The gameplay is the most important part of Portal though and it's quite good. The portal gun is 
 a lot of fun and the game has a lot of unique physics which play into the platforming aspects such 
 as acceleration and inertia. The game is challenging and fun in the last levels of the game but 
 before that it's boringly easy. The portal gun is awesome though and I can't get enough of it. 
 The amount of things you can do with it are pretty awesome and it's by far one of the most interesting 
 and diverse concepts I've seen in a video game in a while. This is the source of Portal's greatest 
 feature and I hope in future Portal games we'll get to use the Portal gun for more challenging 
 and fun levels and not for the boring first 3/4 of the game. Other then that there really is no 
 other gameplay in this game. All you do is manipulate portals so you can reach your objective. 
 It's a simple concept that works well. 
  
  The graphics are awesome in Portal. The physics engine has received a big overhaul for this game 
 as the physics are by far the most important parts. The game also has some nice clean areas though 
 some areas appear drab especially in the later levels. The game also sounds good with some awesome 
 music and good voice acting done by Microsoft Sam... One thing I found overrated was the humor 
 though. The game isn't that funny and the cake joke gets old fast. The game has some dry wit though 
 which is enjoyable. Perhaps my sense of humor isn't in tune with this game since many did find 
 it funny but hey it's my review and I'm saying my opinion on it.
  
  Overall Portal isn't a bad game in fact it's good in many respects but the game is poorly designed 
 and there is the issue of it's length. There is not much to see in Portal that couldn't be seen 
 in a few hours at a friends house playing it. Portal is good for people who love puzzling, platforming, 
 and have 19.99 to spare for it. Otherwise there is no reason to bend over backwards to get this 
 game. I hope they can come up with a better campaign in future Portals because the majority of 
 this games single player just didn't cut it. Portal has an innovative, unique and fun concept and 
 when it's potential is fully realized players will be rewarded with a great experience. Until then 
 though, Portal is just going to be 'good'
  
  Pros: Portal gun is unique and a lot of fun, good blend of gameplay, people who love puzzles will 
 adore it, some humor
  
  Cons: Poor campaign, not that funny, far too short, unrealized potential
  
  Overall: A good 
 game worth checking out if you are interested 
::::::

::::::
UserName: um_i_love_games
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 21, 2008 7:44 pm PT
Review:  The Goods:
  Great Gameplay, and Graphics. The Puzzles were challenging and most likely well thought out. The 
 "Momentum" idea was cool. Pretty much everything else I have not covered.
  
  The Bads:
  Not enough levels to play through. Well, I suppose that is why there are sequels!
  
  Portal 
 is a fantastic and well thought out game. It is so fun, and yet so small. Every idea thought of 
 in this game was splendid, except for how many levels they would put in. The first time I finished 
 the game I was a bit sad that it was already over with, but I got over it quickly. If you think 
 this game is a FPS (First Person Shooter) , you are most certainly wrong. This game is a puzzle, 
 not really much of a shooter, unless you put in the cheat for the Half-Life 2 Weapons. Even if 
 you do that it still won't be much of a shooter. As I have already said, It is a puzzle, and a 
 great one while I'm at it. If you are thinking of getting this game, you thought well. A good idea 
 would to get any of the following: The Orange Box, Valve Pack, or just Portal. I do hope you decide 
 to get this game, Also do i hope you have enjoyed the entire review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IMaBIOHAZARD
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 18, 2008 2:10 pm PT
Review:  I think that the turrets, the adorable, almost cute little white oval-shaped tripods of DEATH that 
 are your absolute BANE, are the greatest enemies in any game to date. Once you pick them up with 
 the portal gun you'll see what I mean (hopefully) .
  
  Just as a warning, I want to address the fact that this review believes the game is absolutely 
 stupendous. If you aren't reading this review because you want to hear someone's opinion before 
 you buy, then you should probably stop reading, because all you're going to hear is how much I 
 think that everyone should play this game.
  
  And I really do believe that; it makes you think, sometimes harder than you ever have before, because 
 to beat this game, you have to beat PHYSICS.
  
  Not many games allow you to do that. It makes Portal a very special kind of game, and that's not 
 all that makes it special. The two... three characters, including the turrets, are the greatest 
 characters I have ever encountered while playing video games. GlaDos is hilarious, and mysterious 
 right up until that final confrontation.
  
  And then there's yourself; you have really no idea of WHO you are or WHY you're being put through 
 these horrible test chambers that often result in your death. Until (SPOILER ALERT) you find out 
 you're an android.
  (end spoilers)
  
  When i found that out, I felt for the character. "I'm not Human," I thought to myself. Although 
 I'd played many alien characters in games before, i just never really felt the shock of not being 
 a human being. 
  
  The puzzles: they're just fantastic. They might make you feel dumb, but if you can complete the 
 game without cheating by looking at a guide, then you should be awarded a PHD from Valve in Physics. 
 After beating the final puzzle, I just felt very satisfied. Like eating a whole cake, and then 
 just wallowing in it. (you'll find that Valve [or GlaDOS] apparently has a wierd obsession with 
 cake)
  
  Buy this game. Play this game. Love this game. It's a MASTERPIECE.
  
  Besides, the companion cube is getting lonely.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: flUx_
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 15, 2008 3:43 pm PT
Review:  Running on the new improved Orange Box Source Engine and develped by Valve, Portal Probably the 
 most innovative game I've seen... ever. And that's saying a lot. "Innovative" doesn't always mean 
 "amazing", but in Portal- it does. 
  
  Puzzles are challenging while still being fun and addictive: giving up is not an option. Didn't 
 take me that long to finish, not sure about other people: My two complaints are that it's too short 
 and that the extra challenges you unlock after you beat the game are pretty uncreative and lame.
 
  
  The dialogue, provided by your trusty guide "GLaDOS" (Genetic Lifeform and Disk Operating System) 
 is often ironic and humorous. Easy learning curve, not an easy game. Worth the money, forsure. 
 Look forward to Portal 2. 
  
  Definitely well worth the 20 bucks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stowik
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 29, 2008 6:41 pm PT
Review:  Portal is kind of a first person shooter/puzzle game mix. 
  
  The game has really advanced physics and although shooting a portal in a wall may sound boring, 
 the creativity displayed by the developers is astounding... it is nice to be entertained without 
 having to resort to some form of digital violence (like in most other shooters, for example) . 
 
  
  The level design and portal mechanic are what separates Portal from other games. The story is pretty 
 limited but the concept is so original that the game does not really suffer too much. It's fun, 
 but not emotionally engaging... of course, who expects Tolstoy from a puzzle game? 
  
  At any rate, Portal is an original game that is worth one play through but probably not too many 
 more.
  
  Apparently this review is too short so here is some filler... a good analogy of Portal is maybe 
 Pong, or Space Invaders. It's repetitive and there isn't much else going on besides repeting one 
 style of gameplay over and over, however, that style of gameplay is adequate to provide 10 or so 
 hours of entertainment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrStalker_89
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 25, 2008 5:59 pm PT
Review:  So, I finally decided to pick up Portal. This game has been raised to the skies by reviewers and 
 players alike, so I though this must be something extra. Admittedly, Portal is very unique. The 
 gameplay mechanics that comes with the Portal gun are fantastic, so A+ for innovativeness and game 
 design... and that's about it. Oh, and the wicked humor of course. Well, it's funny but it's not 
 that funny. If you want funny you'll be better of watching a decent comedy. The best part is the 
 ending with the "Still Alive" song (which you can find on YouTube) .
  
  What struck me the most is how short the game is. First I thought I'd finished the first level, 
 then the ending credits came up and I was returned to the main screen. So a bit to short. But on 
 the other hand, if it had been longer I'd probably been bored of it, because there is only a limited 
 set of tricks you can do and by the end you've done'em all. Which brings us to difficulty. Once 
 you've figured out all the basic moves, it's easy, all the way to the end. The puzzles don't require 
 much thinking and your stationary opponents can easily be disposed with a nicely placed portal 
 beneath them. Too easy.
  
  What the game also is lacking is a storyline, except for that bloody cake. There are no other characters, 
 no background, no sense of connection with the main character, no nothing. Finishing this game 
 leaves me totally unaffected, I feel nothing, I think nothing. Some may like it that way, but I 
 don't. Thank God for Beyond Good & Evil (please let there be a sequel) .
  
  Despite it's numerous flaws, Portal still is a great game, there is no denying that, but it's not 
 what it's all hyped up to be. Maybe I just don't get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jacrocks
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 20, 2008 8:04 am PT
Review:  WOW! Whoever came up with this is a Genius! Awesome Awesome Awesome Awesome Awesome Awesome Awesome 
 Awesome Awesome Awesome Awesome Awesome Awesome Awesome Awesome Awesome Awesome Awesome Awesome 
 Awesome Awesome Awesome Awesome Awesome Awesome Awesome Awesome Awesome Awesome Awesome Awesome 
 Awesome Awesome Awesome Awesome Awesome Awesome Awesome Awesome Awesome Awesome Awesome Awesome 
 Awesome Awesome Awesome Awesome Awesome Awesome Awesome Awesome Awesome Awesome Awesome Awesome 
 Awesome Awesome Awesome Awesome Awesome Awesome Awesome Awesome Awesome Awesome Awesome Awesome 
 Awesome Awesome Awesome Awesome Awesome Awesome Awesome Awesome Awesome Awesome Awesome Awesome 
 Awesome Awesome Awesome Awesome Awesome Awesome Awesome Awesome Awesome Awesome Awesome Awesome 
 Awesome Awesome Awesome Awesome Awesome Awesome Awesome Awesome Awesome Awesome Awesome Awesome 
 Awesome Awesome Awesome Awesome Awesome Awesome Awesome Awesome Awesome Awesome Awesome Awesome 
 Awesome Awesome Awesome Awesome Awesome Awesome Awesome Awesome Awesome Awesome Awesome Awesome 
 Awesome Awesome Awesome Awesome Awesome Awesome Awesome!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: join993
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 19, 2008 9:20 am PT
Review:  The best puzzle game ever, And it's in First person!
  
  You play as a woman doing the test chambers at and for a company called "Aperture" I believe, they 
 are like the competitors of Black Mesa and the story take place before the disaster at Black Mesa. 
 
  
  You start in a room, with a toilet a sleeping "pod" and a table with a radio on, That's all background 
 info you actually get in the beginning. Anyway you're stuck in this room until a voice come and 
 talk to you and let you out of the room. Soon along with the tests you will find a hidden room, 
 you enter the hidden room and in there you see writings on the wall along with a frying pan and 
 water bottles.. Those writings on the wall is very disturbing and you just get a sense that something 
 went horribly wrong for someone and that you're next... There is also a computer voice that guides 
 you through the tests and well... The voice is at most times very disturbing. As you walk through 
 the different tests you will soon get the portal gun, or whatever it's name is, At first you will 
 only be able to shot blue portals but later on it will get upgraded so you will be able to shot 
 both blue and yellow portals to make crossing tests easier. The first test are easy and it's more 
 or less to put a box on a designated area to complete, but later on you have to learn about "how 
 the portal effect velocity" and so on... Let's just say that it gets harder and harder, and you 
 really need to think logically to complete the game, and sometimes you just have to throw out ideas 
 to try, not matter how insane they might seem since that's how you will complete some tests. 
 
  
  Now you might be thinking that you will run around in clinical environments that have been polished 
 up for you, but the latter part of the game you will run around BEHIND the tests, where the people 
 monitoring you should have been. The game gives you a disturbing feeling throughout most of the 
 game but in the end you get some answers to the feeling, but you will then also get more questions, 
 It almost feel like there will be a follow up for this game though I don't think there will be 
 one. 
  
  Half life 2 graphics as expected, But it's very good and you just feel like your in the game. The 
 sound is also very good, and turrets even talk to you, which is a funny twist, but though since 
 there aren't too much different sounds since there aren't many things that make noise there aren't 
 extremely many sounds, but those things that should have sound have great sound effects. The physic 
 of this game is very important, since you do go through the floors to fall from the roof, or the 
 other way around, It do behave well and all is good with it.. There really is nothing to complain 
 about except the length of the game, Which wont take you more than a day of gameplay to complete. 
 Other than that it's a great game that I hope to see more of! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nillod
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 9, 2008 11:59 am PT
Review:  portal is one of those few games that i enjoy despite zero multiplayer aspects. i first tried this 
 game on the xbox 360 at my cousins when i bought him the orange box. i was immediately hooked. 
 i recently bought the single game from steam and i love it. GLaDOS is hilarious, the puzzles are 
 great and the game is just plain fun. the whole idea is incredibly innovative. almost like something 
 you would expect from the wii. whoever decided to make a fps with a portal gun instead of an actual 
 gun is a genius. its the kind of game you just need to play to really grasp how addicting it can 
 be. for me the replay value is high and i to beat my times. valve has succeeded once again in making 
 a great game and this is a game i would highly recommended to anyone looking for a bit of great 
 single player fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarthLinux
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 6, 2008 2:15 pm PT
Review:  This game is.... What can I say.... It's AWESOME, there I said it.
  
  Portal is my favorite game of the half-life series. It's innovative, highly addictive and just 
 good fun. The graphics are Half-Life 2 standard and are great. It has a wonderful and fun story 
 and is a must play.
  
  The game play at times is challenging, especially with the advanced chambers and of course challenges, 
 but it's a great feeling once you complete a really hard part.
  
  The portal system is ingenious and is surprisingly fun without a gun. With the portal gun you are 
 forced to find many different solutions for getting through the various levels. 
  
  This game is also very funny and yet quite scary, with a robot called GLaDOS which for the first 
 half of the game is monitoring your every move. She also has very convenient malfunctions when 
 she is explaining what not to do.
  
  Portal is a great game and has to played to truly appreciate it. I just can't wait for a sequel. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonic-36
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 5, 2008 10:09 am PT
Review:  Portal is the most innovative game your'e gonna find in the market. It totally redefines puzzel 
 games. The story is automatically a classic, you are a patient at aperture laboratory and you are 
 sent to take a test using the portal gun. At the end of the test, the robot betrays you and you have 
 to kill him. This is a perfect story for a puzzel game. The game also features terrific dialogue 
 and the best song in video game history at the end. Portal is not very difficult either, in fact, its 
 incredibly simple once you think about each puzzel. However the only problem with portal is the 
 incredibly short game length. This is a game that you can beat in about less than 10 hours depending 
 on your skill level. I beat it in 6 hours. If portal would have been a lot longer, it couldve gotten 
 a perfect score. Portal actually has some great replay value. You get a bonuses for completing each 
 level, so you can play it again in a much harder difficulty. So portal is still the most succesful 
 puzzel game to ever hit stores. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: antipunt1
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 12, 2008 12:57 pm PT
Review:  There's a reason why the phrase 'portal-perfect' was developed over-night. Well I guess you can 
 say I have a thing for things that are amazingly short yet sweet. This applies to anime as well, 
 but Portal is one of few games that was able to produce this effect on me via gaming.
  
  This game was fun and innovative in insane ways but right before things get boring, the ending 
 starts to trigger and you are forced through an insanely intelligent series of events that are 
 so perfect in presentation you want to show all your friends.
  
  And then there's Glados, one of the most intriguing/interesting characters made in video game history. 
 And I mean it because I don't use these expressions often. This game is short, awesome, and amazing. 
 Like an attractive girl that knows how to bail out right before she becomes 'boring' or... err, 
 well whatever, something a little less misogynistic, but along those lines. This game is the ultimate 
 ride into gaming-creativity.
  
  And let your friends play it and see how they solve the same puzzle levels in different ways than 
 you did. This game is truly remarkable, and totally replayable 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kuraime
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 30, 2008 9:31 pm PT
Review:  Recently, I mentioned that it might be awhile before my next review, but I recently found a kickass 
 game that I wanted to buy earlier but completely forgot about it. Im of course talking about the 
 famous piece of yellow-red cardboard called The Orange Box. Now before I start, I need to mention 
 that I have Half Life 2 on my PC, which I haven't yet played through, so I wasn't in the mood to 
 start playing it again yet. So I will (possibly) review it later, but for now, I will review only 
 one game from the big orange box that I have finished, namely Portal.
  
  Portal is a fresh breeze of originality in these times of sequels and mimicry. Even though it's 
 sold along with Half Life 2 and its extra episodes and even has identical controls, it is by no 
 means another Half Life game. Portal is a completely new concept that could even surpass Valve's 
 own Magnum Opus if tweaked a little.
  
  
  Graphics:
  As Portal uses the Source engine, it looks exactly the same as Half Life 2 or Counter Strike: Source. 
 For those unfortunate creatures that haven't yet played any of these games, I can describe the 
 graphics being nice. Not over the top beautiful, but nice and solid. Just like the original Half 
 Life was, when compared to other games of the time. Nothing has really changed in the past few 
 years, when it comes to the visual candies. 
  
  
  Storyline:
  From the get-go, the storyline in Portal feels rather empty. You are some girl, whose job seems 
 to be the testing of the new Aperture Science Handheld Portal Device, or Portalgun for short. Very 
 quickly however, the real plot starts to emerge. GLaDOS is the voice of the game, an AI that monitors 
 your performance during the many puzzles that you need to solve using the portalgun. GLaDOS is 
 truly the star of the show, with her blatant lies and incomparable black humor. She is a lovely 
 little angel of death that guides you through the testing areas. She promises cake after, but in 
 the end, it becomes obvious that the "cake is a lie". She wants you dead, but with the portalgun, 
 you are not so easy to take out. Now you are looking for the a way to escape the facility, with 
 GLaDOS constantly monitoring and trying to take you out. At this point it becomes evident that 
 this facility is unmanned. The only sign of life in this hellhole are the scriptures in some places, 
 and they all say the same thing, "The cake is a lie". Yeah, that's kinda obvious already. So you 
 navigate through the empty facility using the portalgun and finally end up, where every moron ends 
 when trying to escape. Face to face with the big boss, which in this case is GLaDOS. Well, she 
 doesn't really have a face, rather just nuts and bolts. Then an epic battle ensues and let me tell 
 you that this is the best final boss I can ever remember. You with a portalgun versus her with 
 harsh tongue only. She will nag and blame you, like every woman do, and your job is to toss her 
 piece by piece to the incinerator. I just love this boss and the humor it has. Even after completing 
 the game, the rest follow the same line of humor as the game, giving the best end-credits I have 
 ever seen/heard.
  
  
  Sound:
  Portal has a very non-existent music. It's there, but so uninspiring and bland that you probably 
 don't even notice it. There are points, where the music becomes fast paced to emphasize the direness 
 of the situation, but never it becomes something to really take notice.
  
  The voice acting on the other hand is... well... very unilateral. The main character does not speak 
 (what a surprise) , and besides her there are only one other character. And she talk, a lot. So 
 the entire voice acting of this game is done by only one NPC. That's gotta be a record. So is the 
 voice acting good? Yes, more or less. At first, she sounds like her lines are spoken by Microsoft 
 Sam (or rather Microsoft Anna) . However, once it becomes evident that she is infact an AI, it makes 
 sense to sound like that. Oh buggers, I forgot about the bots (scrap the record) . Those annoying 
 little scraps sound very, very odd. They are like Marvin from the Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy 
 (2005 film) . They are like kids playing hide-and-seek with you. Only with machineguns.
  
  
  Gameplay:
  Even though it uses another game's engine, Portal is a completely new kind of 
 game. It's basically an FPS, but at the same time its a puzzle game. Actually it's more a puzzle 
 game than actual shooter, since it doesn't introduce any guns that you can shoot the enemies with. 
 The one and only "weapon" in this game is the portalgun. This gun can create portals between two 
 points in a very mind freaking manner. First thing you notice when you use the gun is that you 
 can actually see through the portal, unlike in most games, where teleports are just solid objects. 
 Its very disturbing to fire an exit portal to the roof and then look at yourself from above. What 
 is even more disturbing is how well the physics handle the changes in the direction of gravity. 
 If you shoot a portal to the ground and then go through it, only to emerge from the exit portal 
 which was placed on the wall, you get real sense of disorientation and confusion as gravity sends 
 you to a direction you didn't expect to. Playing with the portals is so much fun that you will 
 be begging for more complex structures to play in. 
  
  The game offers puzzles that will challenge you minds to the limit. At first, you will find the 
 puzzles easy, but the puzzles quickly become harder and harder, forcing you to to fully grasp the 
 idea of these new and innovative ways to alter physics. Falling through a hole on the ground to 
 gain more exit speed to launch you across the hall or creating a portal so that a turret will shoot 
 your obstacle through it are few of the ones that will challenge every braincell you have in order 
 to continue. With Internet being the all knowing sage in your living room that you can turn to 
 in every problem, the game never becomes impossible. But the joy and sense of accomplishment by 
 figuring the puzzles on your own makes a huge portion of the fun. I can proudly say that I finished 
 the entire game without consulting the sage. Yet, my ego can't boast yet, since I still have the 
 bonus challenges to complete. That brings me to my next issue.
  
  Portal is short. It has about 20 puzzle stages that I thought were just training levels. But after 
 you get out of the loop, over half of the game is already done. For the entire duration of the 
 game, I anxiously wanted to roam outdoors with the portalgun, but never got the chance. All you 
 get is a factory type levels with big pipes and steam. This game was almost perfect, like a diamond 
 in the rough. If the game would have been longer and had more variance in the level design, it 
 could have been better than Half Life. Instead, it falls a little short. Now imagine Portal and 
 Half Life 2 merging. Instead of the obsolete gravitygun, we would get the portalgun. Now that's 
 a game I would play.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: smikle
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 20, 2008 1:27 am PT
Review:  Overrated.. I really liked the idea of Using transport portals at the players whim; you are have 
 a portal gun that shoots portals.. every successive pair will connect allowing the player to pass 
 through. You can shoot them on any concrete wall no matter the orientation.
  
  The game was fun at first, but being a gamer who has been through games like Zelda i expected more 
 in terms of fun uses for the portals themselves. 
  
  The game introduces you to concepts and you do them over and over again until the end... You never 
 figure out a concept on your own.. you do what the game tells you but just at the designated place 
 and time.. shoot here.. jump in there.. drop that in there.. jump on that switch etc.. 
  
  The best parts were the uses of momentum and manipulating the laser from a robot. beating the levels 
 are more of a chore, not very rewarding at all. Fighting the final boss is a little boring; you 
 just want to kill it to get the rest of the story.
  
  Luckily the game is short for good reason.. Any more and i would have yawned my way through the 
 rest..
  
  It is Fun at first, drawn out and Tricky, but the only motivation comes at the end when the story 
 unfolds. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jpph
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 9, 2008 1:12 pm PT
Review:  portal is a puzzle game where you play a character in an enrichment centre, where you are equipped 
 with a portal gun, which can make two portals, when you run through one, you come out the other, 
 simple.
  firstly, while this sounds basic, the designers have made an incredibly clever and genuinely mind 
 bending game, while keeping the difficulty level perfect. no puzzle is simple and they all require 
 (apart from the first ones) attention and careful thought.
  next, this game is hilarious. i mean, laugh out loud until you cry hilarious. i nearly died with 
 laughter, and it takes a lot to make me laugh. 
  graphics are fine, nothing to report. 
  gameplay is original.
  yes, portal is shallow, but it does what its supposed to perfectly, humourous 
 and fascinating.
  i implore people to buy this game, it is just impossibly funny and equally ingenius.
  im going 
 to give it for a ten, simply because there is nothing negative i can say about it. it is just the 
 perfect little puzzle game. no faults.
  this is a must play!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Old_Gooseberry
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 4, 2008 9:57 pm PT
Review:  This game gets better as you play it. It starts out very normal, and does become a little spooky. 
 I don't think its too short, it starts and ends perfectly and it was a good fun few hours.
  
  There is not a first person game that I've played that works this well using such really simple 
 controls. Really, there is so little to explain, each level you are like a rat in a maze, and when 
 you get out, the next level will challenge what you have learned on the previous levels.
  
  I think this is a good game for people to play, its hard enough that it makes you think a little, 
 but not too frustrating either.
  
  By the time the game comes to an end, I really wanted to know more about what happened in the testing 
 facility, and I guess if there is a sequel, maybe there can be an explanation. I hopefully, there 
 could be more locations, the only change throughout the game is near the end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aires457
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 4, 2008 5:07 pm PT
Review:  I love this game so funny so addictive so... short : ( this game would be the best game ever if 
 it wasn't so short. Some times when I'm feeling down I like to just quote a line from portal to 
 cheer me up :) "That thing is probably a raw sewage container go ahead and rub your face all over 
 it" lol all ways gets me. Or "did you know that you can donate one or more of your organs to the 
 self esteem fund for girls... it's true!" lol always funny. or my favorite "this is a poisonous 
 toxic... if you fall in you will get a black mark on your permanent record....... followed by death" 
 if you don't have this game then I wouldn't recommend buying it alone but if your thinking about 
 getting the orange box then let portal be the thing that convinces you to buy it. To wrap this 
 up get portal!!! It rocks. oh and i've heard some rumors or the portal gun being in half life 3 
 as a weapon you get half way though the game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: guitarist131
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 3, 2008 8:39 am PT
Review:  Well Portal was launched as part of The Orange Box in October as i view the name of the game i 
 think that it will be a bad game but this game is awesome in all things the graphics the puzzles 
 evrething but the story is too short very short but this is still an awesome game if you are a 
 fanatic of puzzle games i recomended you to buy this game and if you hadn't play a puzzle a game 
 i recomended you to buy this game so what are you waiting buy this game now. Trust me this a game 
 you will want to play .This game is a revolutionary game since the realese of tetris so buy this 
 game in the standalone version or in the Orange Box. Well i Know that the review is very short but 
 this game is described in 2 words TOTALLY AMAZING!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
  Buy IT now this game is also amazing.
  Do I mention this game is TOTALLY AMAZING  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shehzad202
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 1, 2008 8:08 am PT
Review:  I picked up Portal on sale for $10, and it is worth every penny. GLaDOS' voice over is fantastic 
 and the game itself is a LOT of fun. Granted it is short, but not every game has to be sprawling 
 over 40+ hours of gameplay. The game is perfect as-is. I would highly recommend it to all gamers.
 
  
  The core of the game consists of solving puzzles using a "portal gun" which allows you to "teleport" 
 from one part of the map to another. Sounds easy, but with momentum coming into play, obstacles 
 which you can use portals to move through, and dangers which can be redirected using the selfsame 
 portals, it is a heady piece of trickery. The challenges get more and more tricky towards the end, 
 and the last stage is fiendishly difficult, but satisfyingly fun to finish.
  
  Oh, and be sure to watch through the credits, the song that accompanies them is awesome.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alpha_Wolf_86
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 20, 2008 3:48 pm PT
Review:  Ok. I knew that Portal was going to be good but, Wow!
  
  I actually had no idea what I was getting myself into. The only reason that I bought The Orange 
 Box was because of the fact that it was 3 in 1. But the only game I really wanted was Portal.
 
  
  When you finally perform your first consecutive free-fall that is infinite, your brain will explode.
 
  
  It's also how you get that big falling achievement.
  
  Portal starts off kind of humorous and a little creepy at the same time but then gets fun.
  
 
  Of course, it is a puzzle game so it doesn't really have to be fun but the fun part happens when 
 you have to sling-shot yourself across the map for the first time. 
  
  I nominate the "Companion Cube" for best character for 2008. And I hope that you all made it to 
 the party at the end. Or were smart enough to realize what is actually happening.
  
  I have to admit though, I got really frustrated. But of course, it all goes away once that challenge 
 is finished. And oh, here is yet another challenge.
  
  PERFECT!!!
  
  P. S.- Hell-0. Wel-come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deathx112
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 18, 2008 7:48 pm PT
Review:  So i got the orange box and one of the first games i played was Portal. I heared things like "its 
 a really short game" and "its really hard at some spots" and both of those are true!
  
  First the good things. One good thing about this game that i really like is that it gives you a 
 REAL challenge. by that i mean its not obvious what to do next so it gives that challenge to find 
 out what to do, and when you find out, it makes you feel just a little bit smarter. Another good 
 thing about Portal is there is no time limit or guys in your way to force you to hurry up and get 
 the level over with or you die, you just kind of go at your own pase. With all the good things 
 added up into one, Portal is a fun, exciting, and really gets your adrenaline up at some parts.
 
  
  Now lets talk about the bad things. Its short. That is the only reason i gave this game a 9.5 and 
 not a 10, beacese it was short. 
  
  but in the end even know this game is short its still a really good game to play for fun and have 
 a great time ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShadowLaguna
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 11, 2009 6:49 pm PT
Review:  Portal was released as part of a recently released Valve compilation called "The Orange Box". This 
 box of "orangeness" contains Half Life 2 and the Episode One expansion, and three new games. Half 
 Life 2: Episode Two, Team Fortress 2 and the last game is Portal. Portal is a very neat puzzle 
 game which is also considered a favourite from The Orange Box by many, and myself. It may not be 
 that long of a game, but you're sure gonna get some addiction outta Portal.
  
  It may not look like it, but Portal does have a story. You take control of a female character, 
 Chell who is "supported" by GLaDOS (Genetic Lifeform and Disk Operating System) , a robot with a 
 brilliant sense of humour. Portal takes place in the "Enrichment Center" for "Aperture Science 
 Laboratories", the research corporation responsible for the creation of the Handheld Portal Device. 
 Information about the company is revealed during the game and also via the real-world website.
 
  
  Portal's plot is revealed to the player via audio messages from GLaDOS and side rooms found in 
 the later levels. The game begins with Chell waking up from a stasis bed and hearing instructions 
 and warnings from GLaDOS about the upcoming test experience. This part of the game involves distinct 
 "test chambers" that, in sequence, introduce players to the game's mechanics. GLaDOS's announcements 
 serve not only to instruct Chell and help her progress through the game, but also to create atmosphere 
 and develop the AI as a character. Chell is promised cake and grief counseling as her reward if 
 she manages to complete all the test chambers.
  
  The gameplay is terrific. Portal is in a first-person perspective. It looks like some sort of FPS, 
 but it's more of a puzzle game. The first couple of test chambers are pretty basic, pretty much 
 tutorials. Eventually, you'll find the Aperture Science Handheld Portal Device, simply known as 
 the Portal Gun. If you fire the gun at a wall, a portal will be created. The orange portals are 
 connected to those of the blue, so everytime you go through a blue, you'll go out through the orange 
 and vice-versa. Only the blue portals are available to fire at the start. In one of the later test 
 chambers however, you can find an expansion to the portal gun which can fire the orange portals 
 as well. There are many puzzles to solve in the test chambers. It might be blocks that you have 
 to carry through to the switch, which then require heaps of portal jumping. Pictures on the walls 
 and floors may give you some tiny hints on how to pass through a complex puzzle. You may also find 
 switches that get activated by electricity. Luckily, there are lasers that shoot electronic balls, 
 so it's up to you to lead then to the switches with your Portal Gun. Then, there are the puzzles 
 which you have to somehow get to the upper floor. There a many more fascinating parts in the test 
 chambers of Portal. A downside of Portal however is the length. It is possible for newcomers to 
 beat Portal in less than 2 hours, and maybe even just the one if you know the puzzles. It might 
 not be very long, but the difficulty can get pretty tricky.
  
  There isn't very much to say about the graphics in Portal, but they're pretty good. I didn't spot 
 any major problems, so the graphics is definiftely a pass. I'm just thankful that there isn't a 
 spot of dull greyness in this one.
  
  There isn't too much to say about sound either, as there is only the voice of GLaDOS and ONE TRACK! 
 It's unfortunately a common problem with First-Person Shooters, and is the case with Portal too. 
 The voice of GLaDOS is very well done though, and makes Portal much more entertaining than normal. 
 A lot of the time, she will say something outrageously hilarious, so be prepared for a lot of laughs 
 through your puzzle solving. The one track in the game is great! "Still Alive" is the name of the 
 song, and it's played at the end of the credits. The closing credits song, "Still Alive", was written 
 by Jonathan Coulton and sung by Ellen McLain as the GLaDOS character. It's a pretty sweet song.
 
  
  Portal is a very fascinating and addictive wonder. It may be the only part of The Orange Box that 
 i've played, but I have a very good feeling that it will be a favourite from me. No matter what 
 genre of games you like, you should still be able to enjoy Portal. If you do get it, I highly suggest 
 that you get The Orange Box, which comes with some pretty sweet games aside Portal. You definitely 
 need to play this!
  8.6/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TreyoftheDead
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 12, 2008 7:31 pm PT
Review:  Games these days are a dime and a dozen. A month cannot fade into another without the release of 
 Generic Shooter #3 or Generic, well, Shooter #4. Developers seem to have completely lost interest 
 in creating new and exciting IP's in lieu of making sure that they can break even when all is said 
 and done. Thankfully, this is only the case for typical developers out there and Valve, one of 
 the most respected in the industry, is far from typical. Part of the value package The Orange Box, 
 their new IP ,Portal, is proof of this.
  
  In Portal you play a silent protagonist who is, for some unknown reason, put through a series of 
 tests using an experimental portal creating device, the Aperture Science Handheld Portal Device. 
 You are guided through these tests by an A. I. going by the name of GLaDOS, who may or may not be 
 telling the truth, which adds an interesting twist to the core gameplay elements. Though harmless 
 at first the tests, contrary to GLaDOS's initial statements, become more and more deadly as the 
 game progresses and players must rely on their own wit to make it through them alive.
  
  The game is dripping with sophisticated black humor and while this is certainly an important aspect 
 of the games overall quality, the real beauty lies in the solving of seemingly impossible puzzles 
 with the portal device. 
  
  The function of the device is to create two distinct portals, one orange and one blue, and either 
 can be used as entrance or exit. The puzzles you are presented with throughout the game are cleverly 
 designed to allow you to use the device to overcome them through relatively simple means, thus 
 making what at first seems impossible to be very possible. For example, in one of the testing chambers 
 you are faced with the seemingly insurmountable odds of making it through a turret filled room, 
 with each of the AI controlled weapons placed in highly strategic positions. This may seem difficult, 
 but if you use a little brain power, you'll find out that overcoming it is incredibly simple.
 
  
  As I said, this is Portal's greatest strength, it makes you think without ever becoming too frustrating 
 and thus negating your enjoyment of the game. So many games these days rely on a tried and true 
 run-and-gun method that can almost be played with your mind focused on anything else around you 
 but the game itself. With Portal, Valve forces you to pay attention and use your own intelligence 
 to make it through the game alive. The game even provides extra challenges such as timed test chambers 
 for the those with quick minds and a mode that requires you to make it though in a specific amount 
 of footfalls for those who wish to push the requirement of planning things out to the extreme.
 
  
  While the game is relatively short, most will find that it's length is just right. One doesn't 
 feel like they were short changed at the end, nor does the game ever over stay its welcome. In 
 other words, the amount of hours you put into on your first run through is balanced out perfectly.
 
  
  Valve has done gaming a service with this game. They've forced us to think while giving us a hilarious 
 and refreshing experience that will live on in the minds of gamers for a very long time. Intelligence, 
 solid gameplay, and fun. What more could you ask for in a game? Be warned though, the cake is a 
 lie.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: munger88
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 12, 2008 8:05 am PT
Review:  This game is a game that is different than most others. It is so fun though that you don't know 
 how to describe it.
  
  GRAPHICS: 7/10
  The graphics aren't something to be impressed about in this game. If you get a close up look at 
 your character, she isn't the prettiest person. Looks wise and graphics wise. Although I must say 
 the Companion Cube is some of the most detailed graphics ever.
  
  GAMEPLAY: 10/10
  You would never think a game such as this would actually have a plot. But it does, and it includes 
 turrets, portals, companion cubes, GLaDOS, fiery death, and lots of cake. Each level gets more 
 difficult and more fun. Great ending as well.
  
  REPLAY VALUE: 9/10
  I did beat the game 3 times, but after you memorize every level the fun value goes way down. It 
 is still an amazing game I know in about 5 months I will pick up and beat again, but everyone is 
 anxious for the sequal.
  
  SOUND: 8/10
  Whether it is hearing the turrets say, "Are you there?", or GLaDOS promising you cake, the sound 
 in this game is entertaining. Especially the best part of all... "This is a triumph... STILL ALIVE!"
 
  
  OVERALL: 9/10
  You won't find many games as unique or entertaining as Portal. I can't wait until the sequal, Portal: 
 Still Alive being released in the Xbox 360 Arcade. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WhiteTigerX
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 9, 2008 10:20 am PT
Review:  Since the day this game got introduced to the community, we've seen videos, images, since that 
 time I said to myself "This is going to be a great Game"
  And damn, I was right. In my opinion this is the best thing Valve did in it's history, never liked 
 Half Life, boring story, maybe TF... anyway....
  
  Gameplay:
  
  Using the Source engine ( if i recall right ) this game has everything you need. Sharp controls 
 make it really easy to move and go through the portals, there is no Lag, or any other bugs related 
 to the portals, which is a very good achievement, for creating a game with few/none bugs.
  The game enviroment is simple and maybe plain, but that it is how it's meant to be, because ... 
 well it is a Testing Area, there is no need for fancy things. 
  When you get your portal gun, it is just simply great. I couldn't go through the first level because 
 I was fooling around with portals, chasing myself, infinite jumps, for a great time. When i finally 
 got bored and started playing the Puzzles came at me, the first ones, were easy but it got tougher 
 and tougher, which is great, Nowadays games are, Get a gun and go forward shooting everything you 
 see. While here... well you can't go forward, you need to create portals so you can continue.
 
  
  Graphics:
  
  What can we say nice graphics, nothing from other world, no need for that anyway. Loved the ending 
 where we finally meet "The Voice" , or GLaDOS.
  
  Sound:
  
  The Voices are just great, and i simple love the ending song. As graphics this is really simple, 
 no much fancy stuff. The sound effects, like the lasers, and shooting is also nicely done =)
  As the game starts, it is pretty cool to hear GLaDOS telling stuff like, "It is impossible for 
 you to Continue" and then ZASH you finish that test chamber. Nice sense of humor .
  
  Overall:
  
  This game is a Unique piece of gem. There is nothing like that in the market... 
 Well maybe Prey, but those portals you cant choose where you want'em, they are... pre-made. This 
 game has only one flaw, it's size. It is short , very short. 1hour maybe 2 or 3 enough if you fool 
 around with your Portal Gun. But putting that on a side, the game is Simple, has a very good gameplay, 
 nice sound effects and voice acting, and the graphics are Good and Simple. Everyone can enjoy it. 
 It also does not have any visible Bugs, Glitches, so you can play it with safety. Remember, The 
 Cake is a Lie!
  
  And you gotta love the Companion Cube ... it is so cute xD
  
  If the game was bigger, like more hours of gameplay, more puzzles i guess I would give it a 10. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danjoseph
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 2, 2008 7:34 am PT
Review:  What a fantastic and unique game. I just played through it completely and I was blown away at how 
 complete an experience it is. From the beginning of play through the end credits and through the 
 bonus materials, this is a top notch game that all game players should enjoy.
  
  You start without fully understanding why the detached an ominous voice of GLaDOS is being so kind 
 to you. Why you are being subjected to the series of tests or who you are. This uncertainty allows 
 you to concoct your personal back-story giving you the reigns in the ensuing levels.
  
  It doesn't take long to find the voice that has been helping is in fact playing a game of its own, 
 and you are the pawn. This reversal is very amusing and adds to the fun of destroying GLaDOS at 
 the end of the game.
  
  Graphically the game is clean and simple. Having said that, the game also has clean textures and 
 a perfect feel for what it is -- a research environment / test center. The lack of variety in what 
 you see adds to the the feeling of actually being there. The particle effects are quite good when 
 you shoot your Portal gun and the supporting cast of sentries and cubes look perfect.
  
  This game is great and should be owned by all. It's a steal in the Orange Box and well worth the 
 $20 purchased alone. Give it a try and you won't be disappointed.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkAngeles
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 30, 2008 11:25 am PT
Review:  When I first saw the trailer and screenshots for this game, I thought: OMG, this looks so hard, 
 no way that I'm going to enjoy it! And that thinking rested all the way until October 10. When 
 you start the game for the first time, you're already seeing that this game is a bit different 
 from most other game. The only thing in this "glassy" room is a toilet, a radio, some other things, 
 and the weird bed you woke up in. Then you suddenly see a clock counting down, and a voice begins 
 to talk. She welcomes you from the relaxation vault and says that you should stand back. Suddenly, 
 a portal opens up, walk through it, and you will soon see the room you were in before. You go through 
 some test chambers before you get the Portal Gun, with it, you can create your own portals, and 
 then you go through many tests, testing your brain and thinking. With the Portal Gun, you can do 
 really crazy things! You can endlessy fall from the ceiling to the floor, or why not chase your 
 self? Possibilites can be endless! The first few test chambers are relatively easy, but they do 
 get harder, obstacles and metal walls can hinder your way. Somethings are even deadly. The later 
 chambers requires patienty and quick thinking at the same time. But all of these things that can 
 be tricky are eased up a bit with the things you learn in the game. The graphics are great and 
 the gameplay are realistic, you can easily go through portals without glitches, and speed is precisely 
 excact. "Speedy thing comes in, speedy thing comes out". And if you didn't have enough when completed 
 the game. There are several challenge test chambers, where you can choose to make the least portals, 
 complete the chamber in as little time as possible, or why not make the least footsteps? There 
 are also advanced chambers, normal chambers, tweaked, to make it even more challenging and fun. 
 There are also achievements to unlock. But although all of these extra things make the game filled 
 up, it still feels to short when you have completed all of this. Unlike games like Half-Life 2, 
 it feels like you already know everything about the test chambers. It's much more easier and more 
 boring when replaying the game, because you know all the things. But if you coun't away the only 
 bad thing; the shortiness, you have a game that is indescribely fun and entertaining, a game that 
 is revolutionary in it's genre, a game I would recommend everyone to give a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: firebirdboi06
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 28, 2008 5:48 am PT
Review:  Eventually it was bound to happen. With what seems like every person making a web-comic regarding 
 how "The cake is a lie!" or how they're Still Alive, it was inevitable that I would grab a copy 
 of the Orange Box solely for the intent of playing Portal. And, I'm happy to say, the fan service 
 is well-warranted.
  
  The first surprise about Portal is that it's a puzzle shooter. Your gun isn't made to shoot ammunition 
 to destroy, rather, to create portals on walls, floors, and ceilings to move yourself and other 
 objects elsewhere instantly. The puzzles that Valve has constructed can oftentimes look daunting 
 and tough as nails, but the majority of puzzles don't have any sort of a time constraint on them, 
 allowing you to complete them at your leisure. 
  
  Gameplay is as simple as it sounds, point and shoot a portal, point and shoot another one, and 
 you're usually good. There is also a jump and crouch command available, but the uses are rare. 
 
  
  While Portal may not be worth much to look at for visual wow, chances are if you have a fairly 
 decent machine, you'll never see it dip in it's frame rate, which in this sort of precision sensitive 
 game is always appreciated. 
  
  Audio is interesting. Save for the end credits, there's not much music, but for what there is in 
 game there's just enough to allow you to think and enough to add a cinematic flair for tension. 
 Also, there's marvelous voice acting courtesy from GLaDOS, the computer that guides you through 
 the game. GLaDOS is a role that could've easily been destroyed by someone not knowing what they 
 were doing, but it was great casting and directing that saved the day there. 
  
  Now like all games, Portal does have one nagging shortcoming: it's short. Incredibly short really. 
 I was able to beat Portal in a single evening, and I was trying to pace myself. Despite this, Portal 
 is one of the best games of 2007, and wether you snag it as part of the Orange Box or in it's stand-alone 
 package, you're sure to have your cake and eat it too. If you bake it yourself anyway. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wolfather
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 26, 2008 4:01 pm PT
Review:  I'm leaving a note here, huge success.
  
  Yes, Portal is a true innovation to an extreme degree. Not only does it set the bar for what games 
 can do in concept, it manages to innovate how interesting concepts can represent themselves. 
 
  
  The idea for Portal is that you are a subject of an experiment at Aperture Science, a fictional 
 science lab. You're test is to go through a number of stages using portals, using what I believe 
 to be the best weapon of all time, The Portal Gun. You can shoot one blue portal and one orange 
 portal at a time, and whichever portal you walk into, will lead you out of the opposite portal. 
 Using this device, you must reach an end destination, often going through multiple obstacles.
 
  
  Not only is this idea brilliantly original, it manages to truly show what video games can do, not 
 even based on story, but based on idea. This applies to the gaming world in general, including 
 big-name long-time games, and it raises question as to what we might be seeing in full-length video 
 games in the near future. This idea especially applies itself to Xbox Live Arcade Games, which 
 often tend to use platforming and small little puzzles as a medium, however, Portal brings the 
 visual style one step forward with a first-person view in solving puzzles. Who knows, maybe someday 
 there will be a first-person adventure of Sudoku on the XBLA.
  
  Speaking of visuals, Portal sticks to the general style of most Valve games, of course using the 
 Source Engine. There is little to say on the visual style, it isn't particularly beautiful, but 
 of course it isn't bad at all. However, there is an honorable mention to how extreme the sight 
 on-screen can look with two portals on the screen making themselves look like four.
  
  Along with sound there is little true power, there are small details such as how the radio in your 
 compartment at the very start of the game is playing the end credits theme instrumentally, and 
 how odd the noises are when you try to put portals onto surfaces that don't quite support them. 
 Aside from this, there is very little background music, with only a few seconds hitting in rarely 
 during the gameplay, however if the Academy Awards supported video game music, I'm sure Portal's 
 end credit song "Still Alive" would be at least nominated.
  
  The gameplay, for how long it lasts, is outstanding. The concept is put to use terrifically, and 
 its a truly thrilling experience from the beginning where you don't even have a portal gun, to 
 the end as you, well, I won't spoil it for you. Of course, it must be noted that depending on your 
 ability to play first-person video games mixed with your puzzle-solving ability, Portal's length 
 can range anywhere from as little as half an hour, to as long as three hours (the latter is rare, 
 and is still notably short) . Though it is hard to say how long someone will take on this game, 
 the learning curve can be compared to the number of stages. There are around ten stages, some very 
 short and some a bit longer, but around the time you obtain the Portal gun (early on) is about when 
 you should get a knack for things. But again, though minorly flawed due to length, Portal's gameplay 
 is probably the most notable of the 2007 year.
  
  In completion, Portal is a terrific idea and manages to do itself justice during gameplay, with 
 no issues regarding sound and visual style, however the length of Portal brings down some value, 
 though the bonus challenges can prove to be truly addictive and even though campaign is short, 
 you will probably spend around five hours on this game over the course of a couple weeks anyways. 
 Fans can only hope for longer length when Portal 2 hits sometime in the next couple of years, but 
 it still might be hard to beat, what with the hilarious script of the voice of GLADoS speaking 
 to you, the amazing, and largely satisfying end credits song, and the notable purity of such a 
 brilliant concept at its first attempt.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: smashfanatic
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 20, 2008 1:57 pm PT
Review:  this game is soooooooooooooooooo well put together, it has all the makings of a great game, shooting, weird 
 weapons, it creeps you out sometimes, and a sick boss battle at the end. plus a bunch of other stuff 
 that separates portal from other games out there, for example. its funny, it uses mechanics that are 
 hard to find in alot of games like physics, trajectory and a bunch of other things that will get 
 your brain moving. some people think its to short, and it is, IF YOUR A GENIUS!! if you were to complete 
 all the puzzles without having to try more than once or think some of the puzzles over you would 
 be done in about 2 hours, but if you have an average brain, it will take you alot longer, not to mention 
 the fact that this game is so addictive you will want to play through it again and again. and all 
 the crazy maps and mods you can get for this game you be messing with it a loooooooooooooong time. not 
 to mention the advanced maps and challenge maps under the bonus map section. really only has on 
 flaw that keeps this game from perfection. its a little on the hard side but not impossible.
  to summarize, this game is great and if you have a brain and a computer that meets the requirements 
 just buy it!! orange box-crap=portal
  
  p. s. my time spent playing is only for the main story, not all the stuff you can do 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WizengamotX
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 12, 2008 3:15 pm PT
Review:  "I am still alive..." Portal through its unconventional storytelling and mechanics revolutionizes 
 the genre; though it is much more than a game, and presents a sort of magic wonder appealing much 
 to everyone. A perfect masterpiece, I cannot digress to the degree of quality Valve has produced 
 this game, this piece of art, because even the slightest hint of this or that could alter significantly 
 your experience. The audiophile quality sound has won numerous awards due to the outstanding voice 
 performances, singing, effects, and musical score. The graphics are far from dated, and though 
 not photo-perfect, fit perfectly with the context of the game. The physics are by far some of the 
 best ever created, and leave to the player countless opportunities and decisions in puzzle-solving 
 and adventure gameplay. Conclusively, Portal's immersive sound, graphics, and physics together 
 output the most innovative shooter, first or third person, I have ever played. I hope this game 
 though is not merely a glimpse into another dimension but the first in a path of Portal games, 
 where no boundary is permanent. [Related reviews: The Orange Box] 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chesterocks7
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 10, 2008 7:21 am PT
Review:  The Good: Ingenious gameplay never seen before, excellent learning curve that never throws something 
 at you without giving you proper training, hilarious writing and voice acting including the best 
 end credits song ever created, achievements, challenges, and modding tools add excellent replay 
 value.
  
  The Bad: Main game is very short, gameplay can be a little too easy at times.
  
  Portal is a game unlike any I've ever played or even heard of. You take the role of a test 
 subject in a scientific testing facility. Early on you receive a portal gun which can fire two 
 different portals, of which you can enter one and come out the other and vice versa. The idea behind 
 the gameplay is absolutely mind-boggling as you soon find out by playing around with the portals. 
 For example, you can put one portal in the floor and the other directly above it in the ceiling 
 and just fall endlessly until you move one of the portals. Or you can two portals on the walls 
 in a corner of a room and run circles through them. There really is no limit to the things you 
 can come up with using this portal gun.
  
  Portal is a puzzle game. As you progress through the mysterious facility, you are forced to use 
 your logic along with creativity to use the portal gun, and sometimes other objects, to progress 
 to the next room. Portal does an excellent job of teaching you the different concepts that are 
 combined with the Half-Life 2 physics engine and the portal gun. I'm not the best at puzzle games, 
 but I did find this game to be a little too easy at times. But on a whole I would say the difficulty 
 was just about right.
  
  Probably the greatest thing about Portal is the humor. The writers in Valve have done an incredible 
 job of incorporating a dark sense of humor into the games nemesis, the main computer in the facility. 
 Even when you are being trained in the basics of the gameplay, you will be told different things 
 that will make your sides hurt from laughing so hard. And on top of all this, the song that plays 
 with the end credits may just be the funniest song ever made.
  
  The graphics and sound are both excellent. Portal uses the Half-Life 2 graphics/physics engine 
 and the game looks great. The sound effects are all very well done, and the voice acting is incredible.
 
  
  Portal is an amazing achievement and is bound to become a legend among gamers. The mind-bending 
 gameplay on top of the fantastic humor combines to make a game that has never been done before. 
 No true gamer has an excuse not to get this game. It's going to be a long time before another game 
 comes out that is so innovative and all-around enjoyable at the same time.
  
  Gameplay: 10
  Value: 9.5
  Replayability: 9.5
  Graphics:10
  Sound:10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheCoreBit
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 9, 2008 3:21 am PT
Review:  Portal is a great game. I mean if you're not really a fan of puzzle games like me you will still 
 love it. It's a very fun and annoying game and it's nice to know the devs have a sense of humor 
 ;) Anyway Portal is set in the Aperture science labs where you go through levels using your portal 
 gun and companion cube and you have to think with Portals you are a test in Aperture Science Labs 
 and yes you play as a women and then is no choice. But this game is very confusing at times but 
 thats the fun of it, trying to find out what does what and if I pull this or drop this will it 
 open that but If your reaction time Isn't quick then I don't recommend playing Portal because a 
 lot but not all challenges require a lot of quick jumping and thinking. You also get awards in 
 Portal for doing mini missions or knocking things down or jumping so far which are pretty nice 
 but you don't really get much out of it on the PC version but on the Xbox 360 version you get gamer 
 points from them. All and all a great game I loved it, it deserves all the awards it's one :) I 
 rate it 10/10 thanks for reading my review.
  
  -Core 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pesadilla
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 7, 2008 7:37 pm PT
Review:  This is by FAR one of the best games I have played in a LONG time; however, like the cover review 
 said, this game is way too short - I probably spent under 15 hours playing this game start to finish.
 
  
  I do like the fact that you can download new levels. I don't know if it has one, but it would be 
 nice for the game to include a level editor so we can make our own levels and submit them for download.
 
  
  I only had one place in the game where I needed some help (level 18) . I watched a clip on YouTube 
 and saw one guy complete the level in under 2 minutes. WOW - that guy was good.
  
  It is hard to come upon an original game like this. The voice acting is very convincing and very 
 funny.
  
  In terms of originality, I compare this game to MYST. Simply Amazing!!!
  
  Even though it was way too short, it was worth the $19.99 I spent on it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chicken32
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 3, 2008 9:43 pm PT
Review:  I started playing Portal after a few months after looking through gameplay, and other peoples reviews, 
 and thought "what the heck". So i popped it in and it was fun, innovative, and just plain WOW, 
 until an hour or so passed.... not so much. If people said Assassin's Creed gets boring, you haven't 
 seen nothing yet.
  
  I had a high bar set for this game, everyone said it was innovative, never seen before, MUST OWN, 
 BEST OF THE YEAR. Innovative, yes, never seen before, yes. But not quiet so much "must own title", 
 and/or best of 2007. First off the length of the game is too short, i understand this is only a 
 small attachment to the Orange Box, but i expected a little more hours into it. there's about 10 
 or a little more puzzles/levels to go through. About half of that introduces new mechanics to you 
 such as, making a portal, using the Cube, making two portals etc. The other half is where you'd 
 use those abilities. And by then, you'd have finished the game.
  
  The levels are fairly simple and easy, most require a few minutes of thinking, and i', speaking 
 towards the average intelligent person as well. A little more variety and harder puzzles are required. 
 Having more difficult levels can also help lengthen the game.
  
  Graphics are great, textures are top notch. With one exception, motion blur, it seems even with 
 the option enabled, there is none for the PC version. 
  Sounds, well there aren't many in Portal, object sounds, and the Female Voice, or guide.
  
 
  I've also seen places saying that this Female Character is a great character and are praising 
 it as if this character is an icon to the gaming industry, but I don't see any qualities to promote 
 such a rank. If thats the case, then Jack Thompson should deserve more attention. Oh wait, he already 
 has!
  
  Portal, really wasn't the game I thought it'd be. People with high hopes, for a innovative puzzle 
 game, go play Professor Layton.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: WINDWAKER1
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 3, 2008 2:53 pm PT
Review:  Valve is known for creating some great games, so Portal, their newest original game, was clearly 
 next in line. The game could have been much better if the developers hadn't had tried as hard as 
 they did. What could have been a fun, subtle experience is instead marred with exaggeration and 
 heavy-handed writing. Portal's gameplay is simple, and if you're reading this, you probably know 
 what it is: shoot portals out of a gun to walk through and solve puzzles. A strange difficulty 
 spike occurs around the end of the game, and then suddenly the game gets easy again during the 
 last level, which brings another problem. If the entire game was anything like the last level, 
 it would have been much better. The last level had a little more creativity than any other level 
 before it, which was more pleasing. The writing in portal, to be put plainly, isn't very good. 
 The jokes really aren't funny and seem to be trying too hard. The game desperately tries to create 
 jokes that could be used when talking to your friends about the game, but it fails miserably. Portal 
 perhaps commits the biggest problem of all in humorous writing: It thinks it is really funny. Like, 
 hysterical. Too bad the writing is poor. Overall, the way you play the game is fun, but the surrounding 
 game is rather dull. Portal is a fun game that just tries way too hard. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Simianjohn
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 1, 2008 6:57 pm PT
Review:  Okay so I bought the orange box, and it wasn't because portal was in it. It was because the Halflife 
 episodes and teamfortress were in there. But I must admit that Portal is actually the game I have 
 enjoyed the most. 
  
  It has a rare sense of wierd humor that you very very rarely see anymore. All games theese days 
 take themselves very serious so that alone was a refreshing aspect finding yourself laughing. Though 
 it has humor it is still so insanely inventive a fps puzzle game never thought that something like 
 that would work but it does. 
  
  You could say it is too short but then again it's replay value is great. For the orange box you 
 would just consider it a bonus and if u buy it on it's own you won't end up in the poor house my 
 advice is that everybody should try playing it and my gues is that most of you will be pleasently 
 surprised. 
  
  So what are you waiting for if u haven't played it go do it right now !!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cmiquila
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 27, 2008 1:47 pm PT
Review:  How to start? If you haven't play Portal, I will find it hard to describe it to you. But then, 
 I'm supposed to write this review to give you my opinion so you can go ahead and play Portal, or 
 not. I will try anyway
  
  Portal is not like something I have played before. It is not an FPS, even if you're holding a gun: 
 there are not enemies to shoot except your own pre-conceptions of space, distance and time. It 
 is not an RPG, the only roll you play is, well yourself. An RTS? There is no strategy, just ways 
 to get through holes, and many. So this game can easily be something unique, even if officially 
 is classified as an FPS (again, it's not) . To me, the game seems more like the result of some mischievous 
 behavior from some game developers to create a game that can throw your concept of space and distance 
 and pc gaming- off the window. I know, it's just a game, but the amazing experience that Portal 
 is will keep you thinking about it long after you have finished the game, hoping to give it another 
 try to see if there are different ways to resolve the clever puzzles and situations you've encountered
 
  
  The game mechanics is simple enough: you start in an unknown, 2001: A Space Odyssey-like environment, 
 clean and white and modern, already equipped with some leg extensions devices that will allow you 
 to jump longer distances and fall from a very high altitude without hurting yourself. Soon, you're 
 provided with a Portal Gun, an experimental device that can open holes through walls, floors and 
 ceilings (at least through some of them) and you are set on a frantic run through escalating difficulty 
 levels to get to an end you are not even sure what it is, or why are you doing it. In your confusion, 
 you have to move through the game by opening entrance and exit Portal holes with your gun, while 
 a computerized voice, funny at the beginning and purportedly annoying at the end, promise you will 
 get cake at the end if you finish all your tests. Yes, the whole objective of the game is to get 
 cake. Is there something more rewarding or ingenious than opening multi-dimensional holes with 
 a gun, jumping through them, and fighting strange computerized enemies just to have cake at the 
 end? This is just great! Of course, you will also learn the secret of why this portal device has 
 not moved beyond the experimental phase, and about its intentional resemblance with Half Life's 
 Gravity Gun. But what matter at the end is to eat cake. And eat it all
  
  I have to take a bow for Valve for creating such a game, and I cannot recommend it enough so you 
 go ahead and give it a try. It's short and funny, it won't take you more than 5-6 hours of playing 
 tie to get through it, but it will leave you hungry for more, I can assure you. The only problem 
 is yes, you guessed, as other Valve games you need the evil Steam to run it, and again, a game 
 that could have easily got a 9.5 rating (0.5 off because is too short) , gets only 8.5, a whole 
 point off because of Steam. I cannot hate it enough
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: godofhell2
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 20, 2008 11:26 pm PT
Review:  Positive
  - A great unique FPS
  - Shooting portals in actually fun
  
  Negative
  - It's far too short
  
  Portal is a unique, fun and very interesting FPS. This one was one 
 of the games which were included in the Orange Box. Unlike other shooter, in Portal you won't like 
 people or anything. You will just have a gun which shoots portals. Portal is consists of short 
 chambers which are more like puzzles. 
  
  At first you will have to pass through portals the game gives you. Later in the game, you will 
 first get the blue, then the orange portal. The main purpose in the game is to arrive at the lift 
 at the other end. You will have to complete a little task like carrying a metal box or just pass 
 through a few obstacles. Portal isn't a difficult game at first, it's not especially challenging 
 at first, puzzles most of them are very simple, only at first. Mainly at first when you'll have 
 the blue portal you'll just have to shoot the portal with the left mouse button and a portal will 
 open. Later on in the game you will have both portals. You need to shoot the 2 portals in order 
 to pass. If the are no portals in the chamber, you have to shoot one. If the portal is completely 
 blue or orange, you have to shoot the other one. It's fun. When entering a chamber a voice will 
 welcome you and in early stages it will explain what you have to do. Portals are ovals, if that 
 interests you. One good feature is that if you run into the portal you will gain range when you 
 get out of the other portal. You might even have to jump a bunch of meters. Your character won't 
 get hurt, but there are stages where he or she can die. 
  
  Mainly the problem in Portal is the game is over far too quickly. It only consists of 19 chambers. 
 The game can be beaten in 2 to 3 hours. Lastly Portal is a very unique game with plenty of interesting 
 ideas. The graphics are great, too bad that it's too short. Still it's worth playing more than 
 once. The game's puzzles are tricky and interesting. But they never get dull or boring. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tudyniuz
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 8, 2008 4:48 am PT
Review:  Portal is a unique game. It is something you have never seen before. It offers a unique feel in a 
 well designed and produced game.
  Portal is a puzzle game. It is distinguished by it's innovative camera and good graphics and hilarious 
 voice acting. The game uses the Source Engine which is also used in Half Life 2. So the graphics 
 look the same as in HL2 which is a good thing. One of the most important thing that makes Portal 
 a different game from what you are used to is the camera which is the same as in FPS games. In Portal 
 you will have to open portals so that you can open certain doors and move certain objects around 
 and changing their way. It is very difficult to describe this game.
  One of the best things in this game, besides it's great game play, is it's sound. The sound is brilliant. Even 
 though you will be listening to only one voice throughout the hole game the interpretation is great. Everything 
 is so funny. This is a game in which you will have fun. The only bad thing about it is it's lenght 
 which is about 4 hours. Of course you can play it over and over again if you want. I would recommend 
 this game to anyone who wants to play something unique and also want to take a break from all the 
 other games that they are playing, from the more serious game, from games which take themselves more 
 seriously. This is a must have for those who want to experience something unique.
  
  My Score 8.7 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wanderer5
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 16, 2008 9:56 pm PT
Review:  Portal is a very interesting game, and it turns out to be a very good game. As far as the story 
 go, there is not much to it. You play as a silent character, name Chell who going through these 
 tests with the Aperture Science Handheld Portal Device (or in short the portal gun) . These tests 
 are being monitor by a AI name GLaDOS. GlaDOS is a very good character, with lots of humor here 
 and there. This game actually take place in the Half Life universe, but for the most part you don't 
 need to play the half life games to understand the story here. The ending is pretty good too, but 
 I not going to spoil it of course.: P
  
  Now let talk about the gameplay. In the game you use the portal gun to create two portals at a 
 time, and use them to solve puzzles. You can also have fun with them to, and since there can be 
 different ways to solve some of the puzzles you could come back and try to solve them another way. 
 Overall it easy to get into, and it pretty fun.
  
  Graphics wise, while you are going to be mostly in very closed areas, the levels do have a lot 
 of details to them. But overall most of the levels wall and such look the same to each other. Sound 
 wise is great. GLaDOS and the turrets (yes they speaks) voice acting are great. The soundtrack is 
 great too, plus Still Alive is probably one of the best end credits song, through for most of the 
 game there no music.
  
  Now then the biggest flaw to this game is how short it is. You can beat it in about 2-3 hours. 
 Also the game is pretty easy, even the later levels aren't that hard. Thankfully there are a few 
 things you can do after you beat the game. There are two modes which are Advanced maps (it contain 
 some of the levels from the main story, but they are really hard this time) and Challenge mode (where 
 it contain some of the levels from the main story also but you can break records like the least 
 portals or least steps) . Plus you can import maps and there are Achievements to get which you may 
 need to go through the game a couple more time. So overall despite that the game is short there 
 is some stuff you can do after you beat it. 
  
  As I said before Portal is a very interesting and very good game. You can get it with the Orange 
 Box or get the stand alone PC version. Portal may be a short game but is truly one of the best 
 this gen.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: yosef95
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 12, 2008 12:59 pm PT
Review:  This is a game you must play nomatter what games you like. I thought the game sucked when i looked 
 through some pics but when i finally played it it rocked .... i bought the orange box today and 
 decided to play a game since it was along time i played one. i installed half life 2 then portal 
 and it was just phenonomal.
  
  if you like fps, rpg or other genres this game still gotta impress you.
  
  The good things=
 
  1. you get to use a portal that no game has ever let you use.
  2. Great graphics not needed but still it looks great
  3. A lot of maps that you can download 
 if you completed all
  4. funny and exciting gameplay
  5. never a lookalike map
  
  The Bad things.
  1. the maps are short
  2. you get frustrated when you begin
  3. the story 
 itself is short
  
  The Game is still a masterpiece that i thought was a piece of junk before i played it.... Im giving 
 it a 8.5 because it could be better with some weapons, hostiles but it is still good... this is a 
 must buy game nomatter what genre your into
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: coolchris330
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 11, 2008 9:38 am PT
Review:  Well, when I bought this game, I had heard that it was very innovative, and I also liked the idea 
 of the game, and yet, I was dissappointed, it was too good, it overwhelmed me.
  
  This is the reason that Portal suceededs in everything it does. There is very little violence and 
 the game is filled with black humour and puzzles that actually make you think. Portal is so good, 
 it is unexplainable.
  
  I recommend this game for anybody doing physics because it does them so well. The physics of this 
 game are totally perfect, so much so that there is not limit to what you can do, the longer you 
 are flying imbetween portals, the faster you get. Yet, if you go between portals particularly slowly, 
 you will not gain enough spped to make it and you sadly fail and fall towards the ground and have 
 to retry that one part.
  
  Another of the good things about Portal is the fact that you don't have to shoot yet another guy 
 because he 'had what was coming to him' as the enemies of this are either a machine or sentries 
 (not that weird, your best friend is a storage cube!) .
  
  Portal is innovative and new, however, if you dont have a great computer, Narbuclear Drop, thats 
 also a good game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deadly669
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 7, 2008 8:48 am PT
Review:  Very, very fun!!!!! This game is very fun. It has lots of cool puzzles that require you to think, 
 yes this game requires skills! The graphics are very cool. I LOVE THE HUMOR IN THE GAME, this when 
 you fight last boss...."Its a raw suege dump, rub your face all over it." Or the song at the end, 
 still alive..."ma bey Black Mesa, Ha ha that was a joke fat chance!" BUT....
  I BEAT IT IN 3 HOURS, probably the shortest game I have ever played.
  Overall though a very great 
 game. I recommend that if you have a PS3 or X-BOX 360 to just rent the orange box..... If not then 
 buy for PC. OK Also this game can get a little frustrating because its hard to do some of the stuff.... but.... still 
 great..... I encourage everybody to at least rent this game. I hate to demerit this game but, honestly 
 it isn't worth $20, IT IS SO SHORT, 3 hours of game play (thats how fast I did it.) But then again 
 it is only $20..... There are 20 levels so about a $1 per level.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sandyqbg
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 4, 2008 7:44 am PT
Review:  The game's simply great, be it graphics or gameplay, but the one thing that makes it stand out 
 in the inexhaustible list of First-person shooters is its innovativeness. I'd go so far as saying 
 that this is no first-person shooter. This is something different... something, in my opinion, 
 far superior to the average FPS.
  
  The game begins with you waking up in a glass-walled cell, greeted by robotic voice with no apparent 
 source. This is the only voice you hear throughout the rest of the game. Soon after you wake up 
 an orange-rimmed 'Portal' appears on on one of the walls and the voice guides to walk through the 
 Portal. You come through another blue-rimmed 'Portal' in an adjacent room. From here you can see 
 yourself walking through the orange Portal in the glass cell. For starters this is actually confusing 
 and it takes some time before you realize that the woman you see walking through the orange Portal 
 is your character.
  
  There isn't much in terms of a storyline. For the first half of the game, you spend your time solving 
 the puzzles set to you by the robotic voice and the second half of the game involves escaping. 
 Though you don't actually know why you are trying to escape to begin with, you get a few answers 
 towards the end of the game.
  
  As for the graphics, the HL franchise never looked better. The developer has made good use of the 
 Source engine's potential to developer a good looking game, that is further enhanced by an uncluttered 
 HUD.
  
  Now, gameplay's where the true strength of Portal lies. The out of the box thinking is what makes 
 the game so enjoyable. Unlike regular FPSes you don't get to use scores of guns in varying shapes 
 and sizes. There's just one gun and that's the Portal gun. This Portal gun allows you to create 
 Portals. Initially you will be allowed to create only the blue Portal, the orange one having been 
 created for you already. However, you'll be able to create the orange Portal yourself a few levels 
 into the game.
  
  So what do you do with the Portal gun? Create two Portals, one for entry and the other for exit, 
 to help you traverse non-walkable terrain. However it's not as easy as it sounds, as not all surfaces 
 allow Portals to be created. That's where the puzzle-solving feature is enhanced.
  
  For most part of the game takes place in a series of chambers. In the first half you are led through 
 a series of test chambers, with the robotic voice guiding you bit here and there. However, don't 
 expect it drop any hints on solving a puzzle. The only useful stuff it says are what should be 
 done in the current test chamber and introduce you to a new concept. Most of the time you'll hear 
 it droning about how impossible the task is, or that you should back.
  
  The second half of the game takes place in both chambers similar to the test chambers and in places 
 that look like utility shafts. Either way, you are on your own this time, with the voice asking 
 you what you were doing or that you were going the wrong way or that there's a party for you that 
 you are missing. If you expect a radically different situation from the test chambers, you are 
 mistaken. The puzzles are of a higher level than the initial stages of the game and there are a 
 few more sentry bots trying to gun you down. And yeah, the different setting, of course. Other 
 than that nothing changes.
  
  If the new Portal concept makes up a half of the gameplay, the puzzles make up the other half. 
 In fact, it is this traditional puzzle-solving that introduces us so neatly to this new concept 
 and also makes ideal use of this to make the game interesting.
  
  The game progresses ever so steadily with successively more difficult puzzles, that makes sure 
 that the gamer is able to have a good grasp of the Portal concept. The puzzles are well planned 
 and makes the gamer think ahead before jumping into the pit, much in the conventional HL way. The 
 good thing about the way the puzzles play out is that every puzzle you solve gives you a sense 
 of satisfaction. There are weighted cubes, energy balls, switches, sliding platforms, etc., which 
 you have to manipulate correctly in order to achieve your goal, which in most cases involves getting 
 your character from one place to another.
  
  The game's level design is very good. There are no unwanted objects. All the objects in the level 
 are those which are needed for you to get things done, so that you can advance through the game. 
 This helps to reduce clutter, which may distract the gamer from his main quest. Further there are 
 no side quests or mini-games to distract you.
  
  Despite all its revolutionary gameplay and cool graphics, the game faces the major bane of being 
 too short. The main game lasts only 5-6 hours at the max. However, there are bonus levels and special 
 challenges, like completing an older level within a given time, given no. of portals, etc., which 
 are available as unlockables. There's also a special feature called commentary. You can also download 
 maps from the internet. All these help increase your gameplay time substantially. Yet it is far 
 from enough. Another thing is that the main game has no replay value whatsoever.
  
  VERDICT:
  
  This game is short, a'right, but the time you play the game is thoroughly entertaining. 
 You could say short but sweet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jediknight52501
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 3, 2008 8:52 pm PT
Review:  Portal is a great game that is both fun and exciting to play. Valve has put a lot of effort into 
 the game using the Half-Life 2 engine and the game looks great on the PC. the controls are fun 
 and each level is never the same. you start at a Research Facility and your first task is to get 
 the Portal device. the Portal Gun is a great weapon and can be used in many ways, from creating 
 a Portal to creating 2 different Portals. you can move objects, destroy cameras, and even use gun 
 turrets against each other all in the name of Science. what is even better is that you can download 
 new Maps on the PC version and try new areas of the game not found in the Console versions. the 
 new Maps add some great depth to an already interesting game. even GLaDOS has a sense of humor 
 and believe me, The Cake Is A Lie. the game is a little short but you will want to keep playing 
 to try the advance maps after you finish the game the first time. and even the Achievements are 
 nice and add some fun to the game. Portal is a great game, its just a little short and could have 
 been a little longer. you can get the game 2 ways, either with The Orange Box, or by itself. either 
 way, it is worth owning a game that is always fun to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Anti-Repellent
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 1, 2008 11:45 am PT
Review:  Portal is the game the hype lives up to. With it's beautiful graphics, fun and interesting gameplay, 
 along with the wonderful voice acting. Any person with a sense of humor will get a chuckle in it.
 
  It's easy to get through the levels as the controls and way the game works becomes as easy as 
 walking.
  With amazing voice acting using only one person, it really creates a personality for the robotic 
 opponents you will encounter.
  
  The only problem I found with this game is how short it is and the story. When nearing the end 
 you begin to feel angry and that you want more portal shooting goodness. 
  While you feel you know the story, many parts come up blank and make you question it, only hoping 
 there'll be a sequel that will fill in the parts.
  
  The game is amazing, funny, interesting, a bit of a challenge to some, and all around a great game. 
 This one's one of the main reasons to buy The Orange Box, even though you may only get 4 hours 
 of gameplay in it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dizzyman572
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 31, 2008 9:29 pm PT
Review:  Portal is a humorous puzzle game that obviously involves portals. These portals are created by 
 you, with the help of your weapon that I like to call a Portal Gun. The game itself is very unique, 
 and the puzzles are so creative. 
  
  Even the final boss, was so creatively made that it's possibly one of the best bosses ever made 
 on earth, you might die of laughter before you beat him/her/it.
  
  The way you use portals is what amazes me the most. Imagine yourself at the Grand Canyon and you 
 want to get to the other side. All you have to do is use your portal gun to make two portals at 
 the bottom of the canyon, jump off the cliff, Aim carefully for one of them, fly into it and then 
 fly out of the other. In other words, speedy thing goes in, speedy thing comes out.
  
  Sadly this game is too short for its own good, when the game ends it leaves you saying "I want 
 more!" I can't wait for the sequel to come out as much as you do.
  
  Portal can be one the best downloads on earth, and is the only game, I would recommend to every 
 body reading this review.
  
  I give it 5 thumbs out of 5.
  
  P. S. I would use stars, but they were already taken.
  
  P. P. S. Give this review a comment, 
 because I know where you live.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: wrednajasobaka
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 31, 2008 8:45 pm PT
Review:  Are you the kind of person that enjoyed more in Half-Life the part when you had to figure out where 
 to go next rather than all the shooting? If the answer is yes, then Valve has something for you: 
 Portal. 
  As the title suggest, the main theme of the game revolves around the portal gun, on which you'll 
 rely heavily as you make your way from one level to another. This might seem like very simple concept 
 but creators of the game were creative enough in making puzzles so that you'll need to think hard 
 how to use portals' properties to proceed to the next location. One of the disadvantages of the 
 game is that it's pretty short: as a matter of fact you'll most likely be able to complete the 
 game in one evening. Afterwards there are bonus maps unlocked that are considerably harder, but 
 even with that extra content the game seems short. 
  At first I took Portal for another puzzle game where you can't die and friendly voice guides you 
 and gives you tips... However, by the time I encountered machine guns I realized out that things 
 are not what they seem. While the puzzles are the main theme of the game the plot gets interesting 
 enough that you want to keep going. 
  As a small spoiler ( stop reading here if you don't want to find out) I'll add that you never get 
 the cake you were promised. Instead, you get something else: a song. A song is much better because 
 cake would have given you nothing but empty calories; but song will make you laugh so hard that 
 you'll burn a bunch.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: superfrog123
Rating: 10
Date: May 28, 2008 10:58 am PT
Review:  I first heard about Portal when my friends were talking about it one afternoon, and I thought I 
 would pick it up out of curiosity. 
  
  I have had a certain prejudice against puzzle games, mainly because of repetitive puzzles all the 
 way through the game. I was amazed of how different Portal is to current puzzlers; my first thought 
 was "WOW" because it was like nothing I was expecting. Picking up the Portal gun for the first 
 time and shooting my first portal was great and slightly confusing, especially when I shot it onto 
 a wall and fell from a height, and you self right automatically.
  
  The graphics are good, as you would expect from a modern PC game. 
  
  The humour in the game 
 is great, the one liners made by GlaDOS really have stuck in my mind, and having turrets with cute 
 childlike voices is funny but disturbing at the same time. 
  
  My only criticisms of this game is how much more complex it gets during the later levels, maybe 
 making it harder for the casual gamer. And the turrets have horrible knock back, and when you get 
 shot at you have no chance of moving and end up dead. 
  I have no problems with the length of the game, it is so enjoyable and I just keep retrying levels 
 to try out different ways of getting through.
  
  I find this game very enjoyable, and I recommend it to anyone, especially people who like a challenge. 
 I think that the people at Valve have done an excellent job. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: metalisticpain
Rating: 9
Date: May 27, 2008 2:42 pm PT
Review:  So here we are for portal.
  
  Portal was released as part of the orange box, along side with Half Life 2, HL2 Episode 1, HL2 
 Episode 2, Team Fortress and Peggle Deluxe (A Demo) . It was then also released individually, and 
 can be played on multiple platforms (PC, 360, PS3) .
  
  The game introduced the portal gun, which the player must use to navigate a series of tests in 
 order to make it to the exit. The way it works is that you create a portal (Blue or Orange) and 
 you will come out of the opposing colour. E. g Walk through blue, come out of orange. The games 
 puzzles revolve around making you think how to use them in order to make it to the end, and are 
 fantastic brain teasers. Its one of those games where you might spend 20 mins staring at it, and 
 trying to figure out how to proceed when it will suddenly click and seem obvious.
  
  The games story is one best experienced whilst playing, so I'm not going to shed any light, other 
 then that considering how short the game is, the story is a fantastic part of this game and helps 
 to really drive it along. Its incredibly funny, and has lots of dark humor which really adds to 
 the feel of the game.
  
  Graphically, its a Source game. its based in the HL2 world, though you wont see outside much, and 
 looks as you would expect it to. I though it neat hoe you can see who your playing as (A unnamed 
 female protagonist) by placing portals close together and looking through them.
  
  As far as sound is concerned its brilliant. The voice acting is fantastic, and the 'bad guy' is 
 absolutely awesome. It also gives a lot of charm to this game, and adds atmosphere. 
  
  So what are the cons? Well you have probably heard that this game is short. .. Yep there's no denying 
 it. It IS short. It will last several hours for the main play through, but those few hours are 
 so fantastic that you wont care one bit. Once the main story is done there is also achievements 
 to complete, Extra hard challenge stages ect, so there is Re-playability here and extra content 
 outside of the solo campaign. To top it off, being a source game, there are Map packs and user 
 created content.
  
  Overall this is a fantastic game. It simply makes a very enjoyable couple of hours that not only 
 makes your brain tick over more then the overage run and gun shooter, but also incorporates a funny, 
 witty story with excellent new unique game play. Definitely a must have, you wont be disappointed. 
 For 360 and PS3 gamers I would say rent, but it really is a gem that should be in everyone's collection. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GoliathUK
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 26, 2008 6:42 pm PT
Review:  Portal's genius is in its simplicity - left click, blue portal. Right click, orange portal. Walk 
 between. Repeat ad infinitum.
  Gamers are all too used to the cliches for puzzle solving in shooters - more or less all shooters 
 involve a YOU NEED THE BLUE KEY moment at some point, but Portal manages to get away from this 
 and work with the cliches the player has come to know and love, in the form of the character controls. 
 The puzzle in Portal will involve getting through a barrier the player knows by conventional means 
 to be impassable - but, again and again, in exciting ways, the game's Portal mechanic allows for 
 the player to break these barriers. You won't forget the first time you do the whole  
 thing.
  If this refreshing approach to gameplay wasn't enough, Portal is also hilarious - the passive-aggressive 
 GlaDOS lies, cheats, and harrasses the player, showing us the trap and laughing as in spite of 
 her warnings we still fall for it.
  Finally, the clever way that Portal fits into the Half-Life canon, through the Aperture Science 
 company and the new Portal technology being referenced in Half-Life 2 Episode 2 and (possibly) 
 foreshadowed for episode three, rounds off the essentiality and pure rewarding joy of playing through 
 Portal. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Saturn33
Rating: 9
Date: May 24, 2008 5:07 pm PT
Review:  I don't play a lot of today's games anymore, but this one immediately caught my attention, largely 
 due its proclaimed innovative gameplay. Well, after several days of extensive playing, the game 
 really lives up to the hype, and I'm hooked. I guess playing into the wee hours of the morning 
 should be enough indication of how addictive Portal really can be, but it is also a nice change 
 to be challenged by an ingenious game concept instead of waves and waves of armies of evil-doers. 
 Portal offers a (in my opinion) much needed new approach to the FPS genre, with a wonderfully meditative 
 atmosphere, a subtle score, simple but expedient graphics and a strong, exclusive emphasis on strategy 
 and tactics. If you are saturated with today's walloping mass of trigger-happy shoot-first slaughter-fest 
 action games and you feel it's time to try something new, Portal could be what you've been looking 
 for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeathScape666
Rating: 9
Date: May 24, 2008 9:06 am PT
Review:  Portal begins with the main character in a room alone. She's then greeted by a robotic voice, known 
 as "GLaDOS," that tells her to step through the portal. This is where the game begins. You are 
 test subject at the Aperture Science laboratory, and you have one mission: To overcome the challenges 
 put in front of you so that you can have some delicious cake. I'm sure that by now everyone knows 
 that the cake is a lie, however. At first, it's hard to know where you are going to go, but then 
 you learn that if you step in the blue portal, you'll come out the orange portal, and if you step 
 in the orange portal, you'll come out the blue portal. It's a rather simple concept, but there's 
 so much more to it.
  
  At the beginning of the game, you have to step through portals that the robots shoot out, since 
 you don't have a portal gun. Eventually, you get the portal gun with just the blue portal. Then 
 you get the orange portal. You can't make a portal out of everything. Some tiles and other objects 
 won't let you portalize them, so you have to use your mind to figure out what to do. For example, 
 there may be a tile that you have to shoot far up in the air with one portal that is perpendicular 
 to the tile that you have to go to. You then need to find a large cliff you can jump off of. You 
 shoot the other portal there, jump in, and then come flying out of the other portal landing on 
 the ledge.
  
  Portal has many key objects that you'll have to use throughout the game. There's the companion 
 cube (your "friend) that you'll have to use to climb on top of or lay on switches to open doors. 
 There are these electric balls that you have to put in certain objects to trigger an event. There 
 are turrets that you'll have to malfunction, so you don't die. And there are a lot of other things 
 that you'll use throughout your journey.
  
  One thing I really like about Portal is how there isn't much backtracking. The only thing you'll 
 have to worry about is your portal gun and occasionally carrying a few objects. You don't have 
 an inventory with tons of items that you'll have to use to get past a set event. No, the portal 
 gun is everything you need. It's really quite fantastic how much Valve has used their imagination 
 when making this game. It's such a simple concept, but there's so many challenging puzzles that 
 you'll have to overcome in order to complete the game.
  
  Throughout the game, GLaDOS, will talk to you, so you are not completely isolated. She says some 
 very humorous things, and this type of writing has never been used this well in any video game 
 I've ever played. On top of having an amazing concept, Portal also has a hilarious robot/computer 
 that you'll grow to love.
  
  The rooms in the game really aren't the colorful or different. They all have the basic layout, 
 and works well with the game, since it's supposed to be a laboratory. I just hope the next time 
 around, there will be more places to explore, and it won't be as linear.
  
  Once you beat the game, which won't take you long, you can download some user created maps, play 
 the game again with commentary, try to aim for achievements, try to do the extra challenges, or 
 play the same levels again, but with harder puzzles inside. There's enough in here to keep you 
 busy, but not for too long.
  
  The graphics are good, but the sound is even better. Terrific voice acting from everyone's favorite 
 robot/computer, and the best song ever to be heard at the end of the game, alone, makes Portal 
 worth playing. But the fantastically clever level design, humorous dialogue, and amazing portal 
 gun is what really makes this game absolutely incredible. Despite its short length (Give or take 
 five hours.) , Portal is worth picking up for anyone that's interested in having a fun time.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilJohnnyboy
Rating: 5
Date: May 23, 2008 1:19 am PT
Review:  okay this is my first reveiw
  I personally didn't like this game at all there is just no replay value at all
  all it is, is 
 the same puzzle almost but in a different form The portal gun itself
  is quite fantastic and for valve to make such a gun that can pretty much teleport you is great 
 unlike in most games where you just get the same weapons over and over again others have a different 
 opinion but this is mine do not buy this game alone its not worth the twenty dollars
  get the orange box so it comes free and see how you like the game if not
  them don't worry because 
 you have other great games to play so you won't be kicking yourself over it the game it self is 
 also quite short and 
  in not untill the later stages it gets suprisingly difficult it really depends on what you think 
 A lot of the challenges were simple enough to understand but it was the process of the challenge 
 that you had to get perfect for you
  to move onto the next challenge and all portal really is doing is frustrating you in a way you 
 just want to snap that portal disk or delete if you have orange box and say whos laughing now this 
 game could have been so much better for example there were test subjects to meet or some sort
 
  of human enemy that you could kill instead of the same old plain turrets with
  on first inpressions make you sort of laugh 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NightFadez
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 22, 2008 10:06 am PT
Review:  Portal is a game that most people would go : "What the **** is this?" when they pick up The Orange 
 Box, which most start on TF2 or HL2E2.
  
  Likewise, like many others, I did exactly that, with Portal untouched for weeks. Till one day I clicked 
 it and couldn't let go from then on.
  
  It's smart, it gives you a gun. No, not a gun for you to shoot the crap outta people. It's a gun 
 that lets you create holes. 2 to be exact. One blue and one orange, which let's you travel between 
 them. Much like a teleporting device. The game comes bundled with an AI, known as GLaDOS, who will 
 lead you around the game. An unexpected twist will come though, but you have to figure what it is 
 yourself. And the funny thing is, the game comes jam-packed with humourous lines that keep you laughing 
 as you struggle to create new Portals.
  
  Bad thing is.
  The game is just damn short. Like, really short according to GS.
  
  Game gets a 9.5 for being 
 a little short.
  
  Don't forget the cake guys. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JaccoGoris
Rating: 9
Date: May 18, 2008 5:52 pm PT
Review:  I'm pretty sure you all heard it by now. 
  it's short.
  
  what bothers me is that most people think it's hard.
  sometimes I had to chunk my brain into 
 certain ways to get my mind wrapped around it. However, I never needed any guides or walkthroughs 
 to get there. it's usually a bit over-obvious. You look around for a while, and it falls into place.
 
  
  It's disappointing to see there is only one way to fix things. even though a fake idea of capacities 
 is created, you sure can mess around a bit, but to advance you still just have to do it the way 
 the game needs you to do it. in that aspect it doesn't makes much difference from other games.
 
  
  now you could state that it is a good thing. but it has two sides: the positive side is that you 
 feel comfortable holding a gun, shooting as usual, doing the course as usual.
  the negative side would be that you wont get anywhere with experimenting end that the choices of 
 solving the game are narrowed down a lot.
  
  now, I'm not saying that just putting us in a big pit with a lot of stuff and a gun is the correct 
 way.. i'm not even trying to tell them what to do, I just though a few more options might be fun, 
 which would make the game bigger, and would make the replay a lot more fun. where it is now around 
 40.
  
  the game was fun, and the comments of the robot-girl were absolutely incredibly witty. still, the 
 credits Cracked me up most.
  
  overall: innovative, smart, but short, and linear.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: stevenjamesh
Rating: 10
Date: May 12, 2008 2:04 pm PT
Review:  Whenever I finish a game, I am always left with the same empty feeling of wasting a crap-ton of 
 time. I think of all the things that could have made the game better, more worth my time, and move 
 on to the next game hoping to be satisfied. Well Portal is one of the very few that completely 
 fulfill all of my expectations: great innovative game-play, intriguing story, hilarious humor, 
 great voice acting, perfect atmosphere, and AMAZING ending. It is a breath of fresh air in the 
 arena of first person shooters type games. I finished Portal and no longer felt the need to play 
 any other game -- completely satisfied. YOU MUST PLAY THIS GAME. The only problem is that it is too 
 short. However, if it were longer, I feel like the humor and wittiness of it would be strained 
 and maybe even ruined. Still, it is a perfect game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mircea_calarasu
Rating: 9
Date: May 11, 2008 2:31 pm PT
Review:  Everything about this game is amazing and innovative. You take control of and unknown woman, and 
 are sent through training courses to test out the newly developed "portal" gun. However, things 
 don't go as planned and you must take action to escape from the facility. I will say no more of 
 the plot.
  
  It's been a while since a game with such innovation has come around. There is no killing or exploding 
 things in this game, just portals. You are presented with a variety of obstacles you must overcome 
 by creating portals which you can walk into, and come out somewhere else (location of your choice, 
 providing the surface is not metal) .
  
  I'll be honest though, the standard campaign is rather easy. It's the advanced levels that really 
 get your thinking. Not to mention the game is terribly short; I beat the full game and all the 
 advanced levels in 4 hours (approximately) .
  
  Graphics are done very well I thought. I'm running it on my new PC, and I jacked up the settings 
 so everything looks crystal clear and very well-polished.
  
  The amazing gameplay is also backed up by humor as well. The robotic lady talking to you makes 
 wise cracks about cake, death, disintegration and the like. This game has some strange obsession 
 with cake, but it's hilarious.
  
  And once you beat the game, you're treated to a very amusing song at the credits. Trust me, you'll 
 want to hear it.
  
  Summary: Amazing gameplay and humor, just too bad the game is over before it really gets started. 
 It really is one of those games that you have to play to understand it's beauty. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smithy92
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 11, 2008 9:06 am PT
Review:  Portal / PC / Puzzle / 8.6
  
  You wake up to a weird computer voice. As you look around you'll see yourself caught in a glass 
 cage. The voice tells you to go through a portal. The game has now started. 
  
  You play as a female test subject whose sole purpose is to test a "handheld portal device" through 
 a number of test chambers. Once you get your hands on the portal device the fun begins. You can 
 now shoot 2 different portals at certain walls. Go into one and appear at the other one. If you 
 shoot one blue portal, the older blue disappears but the orange will be left wherever it is. Just 
 remember that speedy things go in, speedy things go out and you'll be fine.
  
  Portal makes sure you don't get confused or shoot the wrong portal with it's smart cross hair. 
 On it you can see which portal is out in the world and which you have yet to shoot.
  
  All you do is solving puzzles and with the help of some companion cubes, knock guard turrets down, 
 press buttons and so on. Towards the end of the game you'll notice some similarities to half life 
 (which isn't bad in any way) .
  
  The graphics are great because they hold today's standards on PC gaming. AS for the sound, it's 
 simply funny. The computer and the small turrets says fun stuff all the time and even though they 
 loop after a while they stay funny.
  
  The game will guaranteed put a smile on your face as you play. The game is filled with Easter eggs 
 and funny speeches. The funniest joke that made me laugh a couple of times is a funny thing about 
 a cake. Valve really put depth and soul into this game!
  
  Portal sure is fun but it doesen't last forever. It has the gameplay, the only thing missing is 
 the actual game. The story mode may last for 4 hours, but don't be alarmed! It has some more cake 
 to get afterwards and the replay value is good.
  
  As a part of The Orange Box - it's a great deal, go get that box! As a stand-alone game it's cheap 
 but still too short.
  
  Overall it's an amazing and innovative game that you'll be wanting more from. A sequel would be 
 very welcome. After you've completed the game you'll definitely go back for more, I know I will. 
 
  
  If you want to get maximum enjoyment, make sure to have a big screen, surround sound and good graphics.
 
  
  Real Score 8.6
  
  
  // the cake is a lie 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LeNOR
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 9, 2008 1:51 pm PT
Review:  I had heard a lot of good things about Portal and needless to say, I was really excited to play 
 this game. And trust me, this game lived up to the hype and more. While it starts slow, Portal 
 really picks up steam when you receive the portal gun. From that point on it is hours of none stop 
 puzzle action. 
  My only complaint with Portal is that it just is too short. I would have loved for this game to 
 be at least twice as long. That said, the game will last you a good 5-6 hours. (More if you're 
 like me and play through it over and over again.) This game is the hidden gem of the Orange Box 
 and reason enough for me to justify the purchase. It is a PC must have.
  
  The best way I can describe it is to ask you to imagine your all time favorite flash puzzle game- 
 the one that you find yourself playing additively in those lazy hours in front of the computer- 
 and imagine it in the form of a first person shooter. If that idea sounds fun to you, you will 
 love Portal as much as I do.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: shamiq_loco
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 7, 2008 11:07 am PT
Review:  From the great story, to the witty humour, to the mind bending puzzles and finally the amazing idea 
 as a whole. This game just literally blew me away, i played it quite a few months ago, ended it and 
 also completed the advanced levels that get unlocked after you beat it.
  It really tests your brain and logical power and you definately know your one kikass genius once 
 youve ended it.
  Some people say its boring, but let me let you beforehand, this game isnt like your average puzzle 
 gamewhich you probably get bored of after a while, its completely different from anything ive ever 
 played before........... i truly praise the creators for providing such an innnovative experiance.
 
  
  The only ting is that it seems really short and thats probably a firt for a puzzle game, if you 
 know what i mean.
  
  So i say buy it, and hey you can get bragging rights over your dumb friends if you complete all 
 the advanced levels. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arron_stew
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 6, 2008 8:24 pm PT
Review:  Good Game, good concept, good graphics, great sound and music. Puzzles are a little easy and the 
 game seems 'incomplete'...
  
  I got the feeling that this was going to be a really deep and engaging game that would keep me 
 hooked etc, but after the initial learning curve, it's far too easy and over all too soon. Additional 
 maps and challenges add some playability but these seems like cheap things tacked on...
  
  Great end credits, interesting but fairly easy boss battle at the end. Got it first time. Very 
 few levels required more than 2 or 3 attempts. I finished this game well under 5 hours. And that 
 is NOT worth its price tag.
  
  All in all, tremendous 'diversion' or coffee break fun. Not enough substance to make it a true 
 'game' experience.
  
  However, I think perhaps I am good at puzzles and lateral thinking - so perhaps the average Joe 
 would find this more of a challenge.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rubberguy
Rating: 9
Date: May 5, 2008 5:17 pm PT
Review:  Let's start with the bad. It is short, but who was expecting zelda out of a small puzzle game anyways? 
 Graphics are good, but not revolutionary. Again, this is not a game trying to be crysis.
  Now the good, no, great!
  You start off thinking this will be a small fun tech demo for a cool 
 new tool like the gravity gun. What it turns out to be is a surprisingly twisty story, which I 
 will not give away. Whatever you do, watch out for the cake!
  This game is for anyone who wants a challenge, not just the same shoot-em-up. Although, there is 
 one reservation for anyone susceptible to motion sickness. This game is very disorienting. It has 
 a lot of flinging yourself through "portals", which means you'll be traveling in every direction 
 possible faster than you can think. Other than that, I'd say go for it. It's a great game.
  Oh, and did I mention that it has an amazing dose of humor too?
  Just get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheRooskie
Rating: 9
Date: May 5, 2008 7:15 am PT
Review:  First off, I can't recommend this game highly enough. While it is short; it's lasting and you will 
 find yourself thinking about it days after the initial experience is over. 
  
  Since the game had been initially released for the orange box, it's now a standalone package and 
 packs a huge appeal to gamers all over. 
  
  In the beginning you wake up in an air tight chamber, or cell rather. A sober robotic voice comes 
 in over the intercom, talking about enrichment activities. With no grasp of who you are or why 
 you have been seemingly "detained" in this facility you trudge on, in this sterile environment 
 through a series of tests utilizing the portal gun. 
  
  The portal gun in cohesion with the source engine lays the foundation for gameplay, as you solve 
 16 levels of puzzles that can only be completed using "the portal gun" and one massive finale. 
 As you just start out in the games puzzles, the concept of plot may seem irrelevant, but the further 
 you continue into the game it becomes much more dangerous and revealing. 
  
  The humor in its own right is worth experiencing, as it is a little dark and well thought out, 
 as you'll find yourself giggling with the silliness of some of the intercom's remarks. As you continue 
 on you will begin to notice that the "intercom" will show other signs of self-awareness. While 
 I can't say much without giving away the initial surprise of the story I'll say that my girlfriend 
 and I couldn't have been more satisfied with the ending. Excellent writing! 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: godofthunder48
Rating: 10
Date: May 4, 2008 8:51 am PT
Review:  It's just hard to describe what portal is . Some would say it's a first-person shooter , others 
 would say that it's a puzzle game , and other would even dare to say that it's the weirdest thing 
 they've seen in they're entire life.
  Well I say it's a combination.
  Portal it's among the best games you can play today and have been able to play never. It's just 
 right!
  The games puts you in the shoes of some generic gaw that's taking part on an experiment run by 
 a super smart computer called Glad0s . The experiment basically takes you on various tests that 
 are supposed to make you think as you work you way to the final chamber accompanied, by your portal 
 gun . This gun is the solver to all your problems and it's just as simple as one right click ( for 
 a blue portal) and one left click (for an organge portal) . The final objective in the game is to 
 get through this chambers whit your portal gun by resolving the many puzzles that are presented 
 in each one.
  The graphic environment in portal is as amazing as the game itself . It runs with the havok engine 
 just as Hl2 so you know what to expect. 
  Sounds in portal are also very good but what's really among the highlights of the game is it's 
 dialog and voice acting. Never had so many laughs with a game of this nature.
  The only thing that i'd have to say against portal is that the game feels short , but it kinds 
 of compensates with a few extra against time challenges and very difficult chambers.
  So , all in all , portal's just an amaizing game that you whether you are a fan or not of first 
 persons shooters , should get 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TooNu
Rating: 10
Date: May 4, 2008 2:24 am PT
Review:  If you have not played this, then you fail as a gamer and should be ashamed. I understand fully 
 if you can not afford it but when the day arrives that you can, you better play it for the sake 
 of your soul.
  
  Here's why. See i have owned this game since Orange box day 1 but other games kept coming up and 
 demanding that I pay them more attention so like a fool, i did. However after seeing the front 
 page review i realised that I should at least give it a go. So there i was playing for about 5minutes 
 and i was instantly hooked. This rarely happens in game terms, i hope you are aware of that. Let 
 me explain.
  
  Great games all come from some background with stereotypical features and we all know and love 
 them which is why people play specific genere's of games because they know what to expect and how 
 to play to get good. 
  
  Platformers let you jump, are not too difficult and are usually just clean fun. FPS titles give 
 many weapons and either scripted or non-scripted combat. Flight Sims give you realistic flight 
 conditions and that sense of thrill in a dogfight. You know how it works and you know that sequels 
 to your games offer improved graphics, more features and improvements on existing features. However, 
 rarely does a game come your way that offers something completly unheard of and completly thrilling 
 as the Portal gun.
  
  See, its not only fun to use but it's "genius" to use. The whole point of this game is to get from 
 A to B using your own methodical approach on how to do it. As in all games, at first it treats 
 you with baby steps in how to approach the game but eventually you are left to your own brain to 
 learn about gravity and momentum. The game also removes you sense of up, down, left and right in 
 a hugely successful attempt at rewriting a gamers perspective.
  
  Fire the Blue portal anywhere you like, fire the Red portal anywhere you like, look through one 
 and end up looking through the other. If you fire one portal at the ceiling, the other portal next 
 to you and step through it, you fall from the ceiling to where you were just standing. Fire one 
 to your left and one to your right, stare through them and see yourself infinite times over. Likewise 
 you could fire a portal directly above your head and one at your fet and fall through infinity!
 
  
  Despite marvelling at these mechanics the puzzles can and will be at times a bit much on some people 
 (myself included) as you do need to think a bit beyond the normal in solving your puzzles. That 
 is, forget most of what you know in terms of FPS and puzzle games and just walk in with a clear 
 approach to them. Doing this, helped me.
  
  Ok now a rant on the only reason why people mark this awesome game down, then i will end:
  
 
  Ignore the "Games too short" rubbish, because its the correct size for a puzzle game and anymore 
 than its current size and it would be pushing it. As it stands now the story that is so beautifully 
 simple; works perfectly as it is, the voice of the tester is often hilarious and perfectly scrpited 
 as are the sentry robots. anymore script and it would seem a tad pushed because its so simplet 
 o begin with.
  When you finish the game you are offered advance levels of the ones you just played and also there 
 are challenges to test your wits so there is plenty of repeat value. Besides, if you moan that 
 its too short you, just play it again. It deserves your time because its new and fresh and exciting 
 to play. A smile on your face from start to finish, whats worth more than that?
  
  Buy this game, download this game on Steam, download it from some site just MAKE SURE YOU PAY FOR 
 IT because whoever made it deserves that. And besides its very cheap, if you are on a budget income 
 its ideal and you will be playing one of the most important special little games ever made for 
 years to come, past years, years in parallel universes, years of dimensions within dimensions.. ARRRGH! 
 see what this game does to your thinking!
  PLAY IT NOW!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hayner225
Rating: 9
Date: May 3, 2008 6:05 am PT
Review:  Hey look every body portal finally game in a stand alone pack. will it sell alone? NO! the game 
 is one of the top games I have played. still doesn't beat F. E. A. R. but it beats half life and other 
 games in the orange box by 200 miles. This game is long right? haha the company puit 19 levels 
 on to the game but that doesn't mean that the game is long. the first levle took me about 1 minute 
 to beat. only until level 5-7 does it get challenging. it may be considered a first person but 
 it IS NOT a shootem up type of game. This game uses deep thought and intelligence to finish the 
 last few levels. The game doesn't wanna tell you what to do. the game also needs skill and patience 
 to get through. if you want the game get the orange box for only $30 more and get 4 more games 
 with it! You cn also purchase the game off of steam and not go to a store! use steam people! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PHeMoX
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 3, 2008 2:46 am PT
Review:  Before we dive into this, lets look back on how Valve cleverly made all the magazines review the 
 "Orange Box" as one product instead of reviewing all games separately as they would normally do. 
 Portal was, just like Team Fortress 2, always meant to be released as stand-alone game. It was 
 clever marketing to make a single box out of it to cover the obvious flaws of a lot of the games 
 in the package. Mostly the flaws of the other games, I might say.
  
  Yes, you hear that right, although the sum of all parts of the Orange Box still makes it worth-while 
 spending your money on, basically none of the games are excellent.
  
  I've already reviewed the Orange Box (7.5/10) and I felt it was so much hyped beyond what it really 
 offers and Portal clearly was one of most hyped games it contained. The Orange Box still offers 
 relatively good games, but nothing worthy of 9/10 or 10/10 scores at all. Not even for the entire 
 package.
  
  Qt: "When Portal was originally released as part of The Orange Box in October of last year, its 
 uniquely puzzling gameplay and dark, sharp-witted humor thrilled consumers and critics alike"
 
  
  True, the game Portal has a lot to offer and it's definitely the best game the Orange Box had to 
 offer. However if you really feel like buying this game, go for the Orange Box instead. It's a 
 better deal price/value-wise.
  
  The game itself is innovative and unlike anything you've experienced and because of that alone 
 it's a great game. The humor is brilliant, the style is perfect, the puzzles are okey. Some puzzles 
 seem to be easier than others, especially the last part of the game is too easy in comparison to 
 some of the previous levels, but I guess by the time you reach the latter levels Portal also 'ran 
 dry' when it comes to new puzzle ideas. Despite that I liked the last few levels a lot more than 
 say the first 10. It's difficult to really look at this as real critique though, as the first few 
 levels clearly are meant to teach you how to solve puzzles, but in my opinion they should and easily 
 could have added a lot more puzzles towards the end. There really is only a single puzzle in Portal 
 that really made me have to think outside of the box. I would have loved to see some more of those 
 near the end of Portal, but there weren't any. I'm not saying the game was too easy, as solving 
 puzzles is mostly a matter of understanding the concept behind the portals and doing quite unthinkable 
 things, sometimes solving puzzles by trial and error and messing around. 
  
  Sound and music is okey. The voice-overs are very cool, in their own way they come extremely close 
 to the one-liners Duke Nukem used to spray whilst doing his thing, in terms of coolness. It has 
 so much style, you'd miss out on something if you would have never played this game.
  
  There's not much music and some sounds seem to be pretty much ripped directly from Half-life 2, 
 but nothing to annoying going on there either.
  
  Right, so now down to why it isn't worth the money as stand-alone game. First and foremost this 
 is because the Orange Box is less expensive. Portal costs $19.99 and the Orange Box costs (or at 
 least did last time I checked) about $45. Obviously you get more games in the Orange Box than Portal 
 alone and the 'added' value it gives you is worth spending a bit more money in comparison to buying 
 Portal alone.
  
  This may sound complicated, but basically it boils down to Portal being a great game, but priced 
 far too expensive as stand-alone product. This wouldn't be such a big issue for me if it was a 
 game that lasted a little bit longer, but it doesn't. In fact, it's easily the shortest game I've 
 played since Max Payne 2. And to make things even worse, it easily beats Max Payne 2 both in shortness 
 and greatness, making it a difficult thing to forgive. 
  
  In all honesty there's not really a reason for not being critical about the small amount of levels 
 Portal has and how short the gameplay duration will be. There's no multiplayer to set things right 
 and most puzzles hardly have any replay value.
  
  It's a bit sad really, because I feel this game really is excellent, but never reached it's full 
 potential. It's so terribly short that it's ruining the hype for me. Did I want more of it so badly? 
 Actually, no it didn't, I haven't touched Portal in months after I had finished it completely, 
 only to launch it one more time a couple of days ago. I probably would not even have started the 
 game this one more time if it weren't for a certain argument with someone about some of the hidden 
 texts. (Which was a touch of brilliancy by the way, as it made sure the game had this 'conspiracy' 
 feeling all over it.)
  
  I guess you'll understand by now that there's no real replay value. 
  
  In conclusion, if you 
 are willing to spend a lot of money for about 4 to 5 hours of gameplay maximum... that will amaze 
 you and be like a short short roller coaster ride. Go ahead. Still, if you really feel like spending 
 any money, you'd be better of buying the Orange Box instead. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: whoozwah
Rating: 9
Date: May 2, 2008 11:35 pm PT
Review:  I haven't reviewed many games but I had to do this one. Portal is the surprise hit title that was 
 originally released with the Orange Box last year. I didn't get the Orange Box as I haven't beaten 
 HL2 and I don't like Team Fortress so getting Portal solo was great. The game is short. I beat 
 it casually playing over 2 days. Was it worth the money for something so short? Yes and here's 
 why.
  
  The game initially starts out like an experiment. Picture this: you're a lab rat in a maze and 
 you have a gun that shoots holes in walls. Blue ones and Orange ones. You go in one and come out 
 the other. The point is to make it to the elevator at the end of each map. There are 19 standard 
 maps in the "experiment" and then it gets fun. There is a bit of story involved but I will say 
 that you'll want to keep playing because a) the puzzles are fun to solve and b) you'll want to 
 hear what the computer says next.
  
  After you beat the main game you get the bonus maps to go through. You have the advanced chambers 
 which are more difficult maps and there are the challenge maps. These maps give you objectives 
 to complete like solving the map with the least number of portals or steps taken on foot and so 
 on.
  
  Also, if you run through that and you're still bored, you can download user-created maps off the 
 internet and prolong the life of the game. I had a blast playing it and will go back and play it 
 again. It's a game that really did something original in a good way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: armless1987
Rating: 9
Date: May 2, 2008 7:21 am PT
Review:  This game is great. If you hav had 40 quid in your pocket since this game came out and you have 
 not bought it you really need to incinerate yourself. It is probably the most original, well written 
 and well voiced game I have ever played. Except for the over-long boss battle there is basically 
 no low points in the experience, and you will be constantly amazed at what valve has managed to 
 achieve- especially in the third quarter of the game. Its also funny as hell throughout - a feat 
 very few games manage to achieve, and it features the best game character and one of the best characters 
 in general I have seen in the shape of glados.. If the boss battle at the end had been shorter 
 and the ending a bit more satisfying this would have been one of those games that would have stuck 
 in my head for weeks after. Hopefully theyll get these things right in a portal 2 - hurry up valve! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xivor-dk
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 30, 2008 11:53 am PT
Review:  Portal was the main reason I bought The Orange Box. Sure, I got Half Life 2 along with Episode 
 1 and 2 and even Team Fortress 2 but after seeing videos of the game it was just a must-have. And 
 the result was nothing shy of mind-blowing, the gameplay is simply great and truly unique.
  
  You play as Chell as you run through various "test chambers" trying to locate the exit and 
 get to the next one. Like Gordon Freeman, the protagonist of Half Life, Chell never says a word, 
 this can be rationalized with the fact that Chell never meets another person. The only dialogue 
 comes from Ellen McLain who gives voice to GLaDOS (Genetic Lifeform and Disk Operating System) 
 and later the most adorable automated turrets you will ever find. Ever! GLaDOS starts out with 
 funny lines and then all her lines turn into solid gold and I found myself hysterically laughing 
 in my chair with fear of falling over or losing bladder control. The other only thing you come 
 across is your Faithful Companion Cube which will help you later in the game.
  
  The only flaw that you can rationalize with Portal is that it isn't very long (I finished it in 
 3-4 hours) and for, probably, 99% of all games that would be considered bad but in Portals case 
 because if you tried to put in 10-15 hours of gameplay you would just postpone the inevitable and 
 I'm afraid the game could get a little repetitive. The length of the game fits perfectly with the 
 game and makes it a game that you can pick up and finish in an evening so you can hear all the 
 great comments from GLaDOS.
  
  When people ask me now what I think is the best game ever made I'll have a clear answer: Portal. 
 A strong and well deserved 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Technocactus
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 30, 2008 9:27 am PT
Review:  Originally packaged as part of The Orange Box, quirky puzzle game Portal is now available as a 
 stand-alone game. And it's good. The game basically revolves around shooting portals into walls. 
 You go in one and come out the other. Simple, right? But it isn't so easy as that. The game packs 
 a wicked punch with some of its puzzles, which will have you scratching your head or summoning 
 a strategy guide.
  First, the good. Portal is not just funny, but occasionally hilarious. Whereas the ordinary game 
 might make you smile a couple of times, Portal is a riot. Well written and full of funny dialogue, 
 its surprisingly light-hearted tone makes it a joy to play. The puzzles themselves are challenging, 
 but you won't feel like you're in over your head. There are a few stonkers in there, but most feel 
 just right to test you. The game is essentially a FPS without fighting, but you'll still encounter 
 a few things that don't seem to appreciate you. These too, must be dealt with, and are blended 
 well into the puzzles. One of the big positives is what must undoubtedly be the greatest end-game 
 song ever.
  Sadly however, Portal is not perfect. One glaring omission seems to be most of the game. Yes, Portal 
 is so short it feels like the first chapter of a longer story. About half (at best) the length 
 you might expect, it will only last a few hours, and because of the nature of it being a puzzle 
 game, it doesn't have a whole lot of replayability. I could ramble for hours about Portal, and 
 dull as it may be, it wouldn't matter, because you'd still have time to beat Portal.
  In short (just like the game) , Portal is a game you should definitely look into getting. However, 
 the fact it is so brief means it ultimately feels like a missed opportunity. You may prefer to 
 pick this up as part of The Orange Box, to give you something to do that will last. I can comfortably 
 recommend it, either as a solo game or as part of the excellent The Orange Box. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hl20302
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 29, 2008 4:54 pm PT
Review:  Do you remember Half-Life? and it's expansions? Do you remember the game, Narbacular Drop? Well 
 if you want a Half-Life combined with Narbacular Drop, this game makes your wishes come true. I 
 am not a fan of puzzle games, and i love First Person Shooters the most. But, this game is actually 
 a First Person Puzzle game, and it's really good... well, for a puzzle game. The puzzles in this 
 game are easy but fun (You might get bored of it sometimes, but it's still fun) . It's funny too, 
 especially the ending song. The graphics are pretty nice for this game because it uses the source 
 engine (Also, it's made by Valve too) . The storyline is well... pretty good. But the game is pretty 
 simple, you basically have to do 19 test chambers in Aperture Science to get... cake. But, after 
 you finish test chamber 19, GLaDOS, a robot that can be annoying, funny, stupid, or scary, that 
 tries to kill you, but you escape, and you have to explore in Aperture Science to escape (I think) , 
 and find GLaDOS, using the Aperture Science Hand-held Portal Gun (Which you get at the beginning 
 of course) . Then you basically found GLaDOS, and stop it (Or her) from filling the room with a 
 deadly gas. After you stopped it (Or her) from doing that, it (or her) will explode and... uhhhh... 
 you have to play the game to find what happens next. So, the game worth buying? Yes, but it is 
 even worth more if you buy the Orange Box.
  
  My score for this game is:
  
  9.0/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: demonkiller111
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 24, 2008 1:52 pm PT
Review:  Lots of fun tricky puzzles. that will keep your brain on overdrive for hours. yes it is kinda short 
 bt there are TONS of user made maps and map packs. I dwnloaded the rentest maps and I hade another 
 4 hrs. of play. (4 maps) this game is very fun challenging and funny. I personly like the "Still 
 alive song at the end) i like the fact that you have to use the enviorment to help you. like to 
 break the window you have to fire a portal at a wall and another behind the glass you want to break 
 so th rocket goes in one portal and out the other to break the glass. and you have to use a companion 
 cube to jump on so you can rech the next platform. Also to get across a long gap you can fire a 
 portal on the wall the jump down to a lower ledge and when you are falling you can fire a portal 
 at the ground and you will come flying out of the other one to reach that high or unreachable ledge. 
 in other words "speedy thing goes in speedy thing goes out. It has great physics. and is mand by 
 a good company "VALVE". I liked it because you are not getting shot at. what i mean is that there 
 is no bad guys running around trying to kill you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: saginadir
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 20, 2008 4:06 pm PT
Review:  This game has everything, It has atmosphere, Humor, Thinking.
  I have not played such a game in a long time i must say... This is a game that when you finish 
 you want to play it again and again just to find the little things and hear the jokes again...
 
  
  The ending song of the game has so many "Youtube" views just listen to it!.
  Great game... i don't have much to say, Don't want to ruin anyone anything,
  Just go and get 
 the game... Great job (better get it with the orange box) .
  
  P. S 
  visit 
  P. S. S
  I love GLaDOS
  P. S. S. S
  And the companion 
 cube
  P. S. S. S. S
  I bet valve is shocked by the popularity this game has
  P. S. S. S. S. S
  You won't understand the P. S. S...... unless you play and finish the game, so what are you doing 
 still reading this review?! get the game!!!
  Good night. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JerKris
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 18, 2008 3:28 am PT
Review:  For starters, portal is the one game you would brag your friends about, because of its strange 
 storyline and addictive gameplay. Kind of reminds me of the movie 2001: A Space Odyssey, when the 
 computer AI named HAL suddenly revolts and attacks his creators. If I'm not mistaken, some of this 
 game's aspects are inspired by the film.
  
  At first i was a bit skeptical on how this game would turn out. The title is simple but it's scrutinizingly 
 catchy. But once i started the game, it kept me glued to my seat. Up until the end credits rolled 
 and that funny yet cleverly written song played in the background which made me love the game even 
 more.
  
  The graphics really fit the cold yet soothing environment of the game. Its nothing fancy but its 
 enough for you to feel as if you're right there shooting portals. The game details are great and 
 the level designs are smart and massive.
  
  The sounds are great, from the simple squeaks of metal crunching with each other to the computer 
 generated voice heard throughout the chamber. As a matter or fact, the only voice you'll be hearing 
 in the game is from Glados the passive-aggressive computer AI and those small robotic turrets and 
 their disturbingly eerie yet memorably cute dialogs. You'll be getting hints and advices from the 
 computer AI (Glados) for the length of the game. Her dialogs are so funny and hearing her voice 
 is such a welcome treat that makes you want to progress to the next chamber just to hear what new 
 clever dialog she comes up next. The other sounds come from the environment, pistons releasing 
 gas, contraptions falling and your footsteps on different platforms are just some of the gargantuan 
 sonances you'll be hearing throughout the game, and they all sound realistically convincing.
  
  As for gameplay, it's one of a kind and is the most entertaining and fun game i have ever played 
 in years. This game is jam-packed with cool puzzles that are mind boggling but not impossible. 
 And you would feel a sense of satisfaction in finishing each of the puzzles. The physics of the 
 game are awesome, the momentum of falling on a portal and majestically appearing to the other side 
 with increasing velocity is fun to execute. You can also drop a box inside the portal and watch 
 it show up or fall on the other side. But the most interesting thing to do with this portal mechanic 
 is to shoot one above and below you and jump in it, then you could see yourself infinitely cycle 
 through a redundant stream of endless loop. The portals are so cool to look at, it really mimics 
 what you're suppose to see from the other side. All this gameplay mechanics come together nicely 
 and really make the game stand out.
  
  Too bad the game is so short. But its a worthwhile and fun experience. There are challenges waiting 
 for you when you finish the game so i guess its okay. And the fun doesn't stop there, you still 
 have the other 3 games from the compilation.
  
  PORTAL has got to be one, if not the best Action-Puzzle game released in the PC. An exhilarating 
 roller coaster ride. You'll be doing yourself a favor to play this game. It is a MUST HAVE!!!
 
  
  
  
  Jeramie A. Lim
  Junior Editor Division 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bardock138
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 14, 2008 8:36 pm PT
Review:  I find it hard to describe how amazing this game really is. Valve really hit the jack pot with 
 this one, because I seriously haven't talked to one person who doesn't love this game.
  
  Ok for those who have no idea what this is about: You are testing out technology for Aperature 
 Science. You are given a gun which is able to make portals with which you will complete puzzles, 
 tasks, etc.
  
  Oh but there's a twist ^_^...
  
  But, I'm not going to ruin it for you people.
  
  But yeah, pretty much the only thing I hate. 
 And when I say only, I mean ONLY thing I hate is the fact that the game is so short. It'll maybe 
 take you around 3 hours to complete it your first time, less then an hour the next play through.
 
  
  But this is a GREAT game. Anyone and everyone should most def. try this game out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: duckduden
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 14, 2008 11:16 am PT
Review:  best game i have ever played to date, been looking for a game that had something new in it, who 
 would have thought that opening portals and walking throught them for 3 hours would help, well 
 it did. Together with the funny remarks from the start til the end this is a game that you must 
 play before you die. If you dont belive me download the demo (if there is any) and play it, i promise 
 you that you will be addicted to this (portal) drug before youve even completed the demo. so good 
 luck to you, and even thought the game is short the rest of the orange box will make up for it 
 with 3 great games, so run to the store and buy buy buy i did and it was greater then any game 
 in ALOOOOOOOOOOONG time.
  
  Was kind of sceptical but thinking back on the buy it was worth every dollar.
  
  And now im 
 jsut adding 20 letters so i can post this, 
  
  Writen by DUCKDUDE 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sadlet
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 13, 2008 8:31 am PT
Review:  Portal in my opinion = BEST GAME EVER i have listened to the still alive song over 50 times today 
 lol. GLaDOS is my favorite character from any game ever i have portal wallpapers on all my electronic 
 devices woot portal woot woot woot woot woot INOVATIVE PORTAL 2 COMIN WOOT WOOT WOOT WOOT WOOTW 
 OOEOAS OSAOSJFWE EIHGRIW HGIEWGH IEGH WIGHWF IRHGE WO IFD WO WOOW OW OW OW OWWOW OWOWO WOWOWWO 
 WOWOWO WOWOWO W WOWWW OWWWOWWOWWW WOWOWO OSTILL ALIVE THE CAKE IS A LIE WOWOWOWO W SHES WATHCING 
 US WOAJS CAKE LIE WASD THE COMPANION CUBE j POTATO CUBE OWOO EGG SALAD WOO WWOWOWOW CUBES TURRENTS 
 LOLOLOLOL WOOO CRAZY POTATOS WOOW WOOOOW OWOO WOOOW OWOOOW OOW OWOW WOWOWO WOWWOWO WOWOWO WOWOW 
 WOWOWOWWO W OWOW EO WO WO WWOOW OWOW OW OWO W OWOWO WWO WO WO W OWO W OWO WO WO WO WO WO WO OWWO 
 WO WO WO WO WOWO W OWO WO W OWO W OWO WO W W OW WO WOWOW OOWOW WOW W OO W W W W W O WOWO WOWO WOOWOWOWOW 
 OWOWOW WOWWOOW 
::::::

::::::
UserName: diablopaul20
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 12, 2008 9:23 am PT
Review:  Well for those of you that bought Orange Box you have surely noticed Portal. This sleeper hit coming 
 out of nowhere , from a bunch of students ,which ,having made the prototype of Portal ,were hired 
 by Valve. These 10 individuals managed to create one of the most unique experience you'll ever 
 enjoy.
  
  First off it uses the source engine and the Havok physics system in an interesting way. The whole 
 game-play is a series of physics puzzles , such as deploying portals and letting gravitation do 
 its work ( Or as GlaDOS , one of the most unique villains in all of gaming history, puts it" Speedy 
 thing comes in ,speedy thing comes out") The graphics are sharp , and the old source engine has 
 aged wonderfully. 
  
  The most important thing though is the humor. Ranging from Glados' smart witty remarks, the ever-promised 
 piece of cake or the taunts shouted by the turrets ( your only true enemy ,besides GlaDOS) , all 
 make up a great way to spend your afternoon.
  
  Sound is sky-high. Voice acting is greatly done and the music , well to put it simply , is greatly 
 linked with the atmosphere , giving you an adrenaline rush when your close to danger. Also the 
 ending credit song is the best every written and it is worth buying the game just for the credits 
 alone.
  
  That being said don't waste your time reading any more reviews. Just go out there , buy it and 
 have the most fun in the world with your PC for how long the game lasts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: icedfacekilla57
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 10, 2008 4:29 pm PT
Review:  When first getting the orange box my immediate reaction was to play portal for it's unique playing 
 style and usage of portals through puzzles.
  
  From the get go of playing portal, it seemed just like an ordinary puzzle game that was sort of 
 an additional bonus to the orange box, but my assumption was way off. Your guided by a computer 
 program and watched by cameras as an experiment to demonstrate how you fulfill complex tasks using 
 a portal gun, sort of how scientists experiment on rats and the function of their brains. 
  
  Slowly but surely, a story reveals itself, as well a an unsolved and mysterious conflict within 
 the Aperture Science facility. I wont reveal too much in that area, because if i did, the story 
 wouldn't be as great and revealing as it would be if you actually played it.
  
  The puzzles are fun to figure out, they arent entirely difficult if you think and set your mind 
 to what you have to do, but if you do get stuck , theres always gamefaqs. When you beat the game 
 though, you do get awesome challenges that are given to you, based off the different levels in 
 the game. 
  For example, a challenge given can be: Complete the level only using a certain amount of portals, 
 or completing it in a certain time, with only using a certain amount of portals. Its worth the 
 replay value, so play on.
  
  
  All in all, Portal is a fantastic game that will have you saying "wtf?" for a while, even if the 
 ending song doesnt give you the chills. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MaDaStar
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 10, 2008 4:29 am PT
Review:  Portal reminds me of an old cartoon by Warner Brothers about a scientist that invents a Portable 
 Hole. The concept and puzzles are fantastic and some will make you think "outside the box". The 
 game teaches as it progresses, introducing new elements and then implementing them in the next 
 puzzle. However, it is over way too soon. As part of The Orange Box, it was like a nice bonus game 
 to go with Episode 2 and Team Fortress 2. As a stand alone title, this game needs to be expanded 
 to justify a price above what people are paying for another recently released 'mini-game' named 
 Audiosurf. As fun as the game is, replayability is low, because once you've solved a puzzle, there 
 is no need to return and try again. I, as well as many others I expect, would really like to see 
 the Portal gun and puzzles be integrated into Episode 3 of Half Life 2. With that and the anti-gravity 
 gun, I might only use the crowbar to open crates. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: davekirchner
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 8, 2008 1:25 pm PT
Review:  If you want to try something that you won't find in any other game on the market, take this title 
 for a spin. I love the Half-life series and pretty much anything that Valve releases will get my 
 attention for at least as long as it takes to try it out. Whether you're like me or if you've never 
 played any games in the series and have little to no inclination to do so, Portal would still get 
 my endorsement. It combines the traditional control and familiarity of your favorite first-person 
 shooter along with the sinister challenge of your best puzzle games. The deviousness of some of 
 the later puzzles and traps are what kept me going even after the initial novelty of the game play 
 wore off. In other words, it has the features and flash to hook you, and the rewarding sense of 
 solving a migraine-inducing problem to keep you in. Throw in the streak of sarcastic humor that 
 the designers heaped into the game and you have an experience that is just what a video game should 
 be, entertaining. From the off-the-wall comments of your  nemesis 
 to the humorous inscriptions on the walls, you won't be disappointed. This is just the kind of 
 freshness in gaming I had been wanting to see for some time now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: glyder56
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 9, 2008 1:47 pm PT
Review:  Portal has recreated the First Person Shooter. A First Person Shooter puzzle game that has nothing 
 to do with killing and everything to do Half Life 2. Portal is from Alex's mum and Eli's Wife's 
 point of view when she is still with Apature Science. This game has enjoyable gameplay with a strange 
 sense of humour that gets stronger through out the game. The story line fills us in from what happened 
 with the competing science company against black mesa. The Levels get harder as you play until 
 of course you realise that if you finish the game you are going to be killed by some physco robot 
 who wants to feed you cake :) In the End of course you will kill her and so on. The graphics are 
 decent enough for this game, graphics don't play a huge role but do help. the gameplay is fun. 
 the humour is great, the music is good. but over all its a great game and worth getting with Orange 
 Box 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mokz0r
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 8, 2008 8:17 am PT
Review:  Funny, a little challenging and with a good pace. It's fascinating how a game with just a simple 
 "feature", the portals, can provide for such a diverse and fun experience. Everytime you jump across 
 a cliff to be hurled across the room to a seemingly impossible to reach platform you feel like 
 saying "weee" as the camera rotates.
  Dealing with the robots is not as much fun however, but it's an obstacle easily surpassed and it's 
 good to feel challenged for a time.
  The developers keep us entertained by feeding new challenges and objects as the game progresses 
 but they're hardly repeated, leaving a sense of under-utilisation of the game's potential. Too 
 much of an effort on not leaving us bored, perhaps.
  If it was longer, more problems would undoubtedly pop up, but as it is, it's nearly perfect.. however, 
 a short game is a short game. As such, it can't get a higher rating than 8. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bruno_fmenedes
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 8, 2009 12:18 pm PT
Review:  --------------------------
  SCORE: ( ( ( 8.5 ) ) ) - (in a scale of 0.5 increments, without a formula)
  --------------------------
 
  Gameplay - ( 9 )
  Graphics -- ( 8 )
  Sound ------ ( 9 )
  Value ------- ( 6 )
  --------------------------
  
  THE GOOD:
  - Accurate FPS controls;
  - A groundbreaking and 
 exciting new gameplay mechanic, the portal-gun;
  - Innovative puzzles that use very well the portal-gun and the game's impressive physics engine;
 
  - Effective sound effects and art design;
  - Great new character, named GLaDOS, with some genuinely funny speech lines and a terrific voice 
 acting;
  - One of the best "End Credits" song ever made for a game.
  
  THE BAD:
  - Half the content you should get for 20$, in my opinion;
  - Most puzzles are very easy;
  - 
 The bonus levels don't add much lasting appeal to the game.
  
  FINAL WORDS:
  Portal is a very innovative game indeed, but a lot of potential was left untapped. It's very fun 
 while it lasts, but it ends too quickly. If you're not going to buy the "Orange Box" but want to 
 play this game, wait until it costs near 10$, unless there aren't any other games with more value 
 that you want to buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kahlzun
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 2, 2008 2:56 am PT
Review:  Wow.
  
  This game is excellent. Graphics, sounds qualtity, voice actors, plot.. there is rarely a grey 
 area. The only complaint is that it is somewhat short - even coming into the game dry (with no 
 idea how to play it) it shouldn't take more than 8 hours max to finish.
  
  Otherwise, it is an excellent game, which all FPS fans and puzzle afficionados should acquaint 
 themselves.
  
  The puzzles start off simply, though some of them require more timing than planning, by and large 
 it is a 'this goes here and then that goes there' style of puzzle. With the added complication 
 that if you line it up wrong, the stuff you're trying to redirect can kill you.
  
  The creators of the game deserve a salute. Portal is engaging, interesting, and bizarre in a glorious 
 fashion. They also achieved what Prey didn't. Made the game fun.
  
  Oh, and the song at the end was great :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HAMODA
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 1, 2008 11:45 am PT
Review:  Portal is a first-person puzzle game in which the puzzles are solved by the use of a gun that places 
 portals on different surfaces. There is a very loose story in the game that picks up more in the 
 last hour-or-so of the game, but it's enough to keep you moving forward.
  
  The puzzles are simple, yet complex, and made possible by Valve's Source engine. You will be using 
 portals to travel to the opposite side of a room, propel yourself across gaps, climb up platforms 
 towering above one another, and much more. The puzzles will keep you thinking, but are a ton of 
 fun to solve.
  
  The graphics on the Source engine are holding up surprisingly well compared to the commonly used 
 UE3. The game looks great for the most part, and a new motion blur effect has been added, helping 
 the game look more realistic. The sound is great too, though it is limited. The best sound in the 
 game has to be GLaDOS, your "guide" throughout the game. As you progress through the game, she 
 will utter some of the best dark humor you will ever year. The game will keep you laughing throughout, 
 with hilarious moments involving everything from Weighted Companion Cubes to cake. The humor adds 
 a great deal to the overall experience, so much that it wouldn't have been nearly as good without 
 it.
  
  For most people, the game will last 3-4 hours, depending on how good you are at solving puzzles. 
 The last hour of the game is an exhilirating experience, and takes the game beyond what you could've 
 expected. To say more will spoil it for you, though. The length is the only major downside to the 
 game.
  
  This is defintetely, no-doubt-about-it, the best game of 2007. Period. The only reason it didn't 
 win any game-of-the-year awards was because it was commonly associated with The Orange Box as a 
 whole. But it is beyond everything else in that box. All of the parts add up into the best afternoon 
 you will ever have. If you bought or are going to buy The Orange Box, don't pass this up. If you 
 don't want The Orange Box, but have a decent PC, pick up this game on Steam. It's only $20. And 
 it's the best $20 you will ever spend. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: blurrypixel
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 16, 2008 10:03 am PT
Review:  Portal
  
  What's to like:
  - GLaDOS, the computer AI antagonist
  - Aesthetically pleasing graphics
  - Very Funny (dark humor)
  - Fun boss fight
  - Unique 
 and hilarious ending
  - Superb AI voice
  
  What you may not like:
  - Short game
  - Little character depth of yourself
  - Little level diversity
  - Little puzzle diversity
 
  
  
  Story -- "The cake is a lie"
  
  As a human test subject you will be asked to go through a series of puzzles.
  
  Where Portal 
 really shines though is with your interaction with GLaDOS. She (?) is the computer AI who seems 
 to be supervising those tests. She will guide you through the puzzles while passing along hilarious 
 remarks and observations about your progress. GLaDOS is really the soul of this game.
  
  
  Game -- It's all about the "Portal Gun"
  
  Early in the game, you will be given a Portal 
 Gun. This gun has 2 functions:
  
  - Create an entry portal (left click -- blue circle)
  - Create an exit portal (right click -- orange circle)
  
  The way it works is rather simple, 
 anything going through the blue portal will exit through the orange portal and vice-versa. Any 
 objects can go through a portal -- including yourself. Know though, that not every surface can 
 be used to create a portal.
  
  There is 1 puzzle per level and each time you successfully solve a puzzle, you get access to the 
 elevator to get on to the next level.
  
  Portal takes full advantage of Source's physics engine from Half-Life 2. There will be numerous 
 puzzles where their resolve rely on either dropping something through the portal or throwing yourself 
 to gain enough velocity to be "thrown" to the next platform.
  
  The Portal Gun is the only tool/weapon you will use in Portal.
  
  
  Puzzle elements -- Cubes, 
 Energy balls & Buttons
  
  There isn't much diversity in ways to solve the puzzles. In addition to the portal tricks, most 
 of them can be solve with the proper use of Cubes, Energy balls, and Buttons.
  
  
  Enemies
  
  There are some turrets. Since you cannot directly shoot a turret, you will need 
 to either body-push them down, throw something at them or open a portal underneath them.
  
  There is also one boss fight, which is a lot of fun but is really too short and straightforward.
 
  
  
  Conclusion - Long Live GLaDOS
  
  Easily one of the most unique character to have existed on the PC. GLaDOS totally makes Portal 
 a very enjoyable experience, especially in the later parts of the game. The Ending is by far one 
 of the most original seen in years and completely deserves to be experienced.
  
  
  Rating: Considering Portal is part of the Orange Box (+) but is quite short (-) , I give it a 8.2/10. 
 It is _very_ important to mention that Without GLaDOS, this would have been a very bland and basic 
 puzzle game. GlaDOS plays a big part in bringing the score a few whole points up. 
  
  So Kudos to Valve in introducing us to such a great NPC. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: end15
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 22, 2008 4:41 pm PT
Review:  With a plot that could have easily come out of a Philip K. Dick short story, smooth but simple 
 graphics, very smart game design, and of course some moist cake and a song for me, I fell for the 
 companion cube right away.
  
  This is without a doubt the smartest game I've played in a long time. It was short but sweet. 
 
  
  The character of GLaDos is one of the most inventive I've seen in a while. It really helped the 
 puzzles and mind tricks work out very nicely. The level at which it messes with you was almost 
 on par with Eternal Darkness on the Game Cube.
  
  There seems to be no end to the variations on which these puzzles can potentially be solved. Just 
 take a look at some of the YouTube videos of unique ways that I'm sure Valve didn't expect people 
 to use to solve the puzzles.
  
  Although I like Half-Life 2 as far as the engine goes, the characters were often to sentimental 
 for me. This was a nice change back to good old ruthlessness and trickery.
  
  All of the people who worked on this deserve credit for breaking out of the genera and doing something 
 interesting. Thanks for taking the time to execute this idea properly. I look forward to more great 
 ideas from all of the staff at Valve! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cranberry2
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 19, 2008 7:28 pm PT
Review:  I was in the game 3 minutes ago. I came from beating it without stoping. Like Narbacular Drop (The 
 original piece, but incomplete) the gameplay is addicting and strait foward, so when you beggin 
 you feel like playing all the way. 
  The game beggins with nothing of story (its a puzzle game) but you see you are in a experimental 
 test where soon you talk with a voice thats the same from the offical comercial video of the game 
 (very funny the video) . And the game is inteligent, funny and dramatic even without a story whats 
 much surprising. 
  
  I've beaten the game with a few hours, the game was easy for me also like Nerbacular Drop. The 
 original it seems I beated it in much less the hour without any trouble (I couldnt believe when 
 It got finished, but its incomplete. Portal, I began thinking if it was going to be hard for me, 
 becouse I felt very close with the gameplay; but it was very straitfoward. I dont know how it is 
 for others, the game have really inteligent twists and puzzles (you fell it) but I could be able 
 to always found out what I have to do, only 1 time in the game I stoped more time to think what 
 I have to do, but in 10 minutes I think I found out. I never stuckd anywhere. So the game was easy 
 for me, but I loved it; I guess I just got ajusted with this gameplay becouse I have hard times 
 in other puzzle games. 
  Sadly I havent count the time I spented at it, but was short. 
  
  The silly things She talks to you are funny, the mood in the game is good. Your final prize 
 is also very nice and funny. Well you get two final prizes. The final music is one of them, I loved 
 it!!! Also becouse I loved the enemy. And She tells she is not angry with you and that shes still 
 alive, all you want to hear, I didnt liked to fight her but the fight maked us even more close. 
 
  Its amazing. The game was more a story to me than a challenge. So I never got fustraded, or really 
 challenged, but I enjoyed all the way, and the puzzles are smart neitherway what makes you feel 
 good when you complete any of them, and so you go on. Nice music, nice radio music. Great enemy! 
 Best enemy of all time! 
  
  I think this game worked all around becouse the producers didnt bother puting silly things, or 
 iventing craziness, but maybe it was all calculated to work this way, wich means huge thinks. Im 
 talking about the events. Still I think, they worked with free mind without retritments about the 
 talks and events, most of the serous had to be made about the challagens only; giving them free 
 will to make the nice events (story) . It just come out amazing. Im now, wishing to hear that final 
 music again, maybe I find again it at the archives or the game itself. The protagonist is nice, 
 if you look at her she doesnt appear that very pretty girl of most games, wich is good. But she 
 have a nice style and walking, becouse of something she have at her feets I dont really know the 
 why of that, maybe to gave her trouble jumping?
  
  Very very cool, such an experience. Sometimes a short game can mark you much more than much larger 
 games, with deep story and all. This game is like this. No story, short, but its nice events and 
 mood makes you like it so much more than most games. I guess I just got luck with this kind of 
 gameplay, becouse it turned on very easy to me ( but I have played Narbacular before) . I think you 
 should play Narbacular, is also very nice, read the manual (very funny) , the "story" there is also 
 funny and short. Its about a princess niked No-Kenees becouse she cant jump (for gameplay challage) . 
 Sadly, Narbacular never got to be finished so you dont get the pleasure to leave its dungeon. Both 
 games are very alike and Portal turned on best becouse of the bright of the place (Narbacular is 
 dungeon) and the enemy. And the music. Also is more funny and you get a final prize and it have 
 an end. The producers of Narbacular also worked with valve in this one, so its a original piece. 
 
  
  Do a favor to yourself, and find this game if you already dont have it. If the puzzles get more 
 challanging to you, youll find it even better (becouse I wanted to) . Dont bother becouse I got an 
 easy ride, I wish this was more hard for more enjoyment, but still challagens are inteligent and 
 well made wich gratificates you either way, I dont know what could make it hard. The gameplay shows 
 big possibilities but to formulate more smart puzzles (different of the ones that are only repetitive 
 and makes you tired,- this game have none of these) they might need experts. Not that it isent 
 good, but I keep thinking how gamemakers can make these problems. And the problems here is about 
 real thinking, not hard to jump places (tough there is sometimes, but also mixed with thiking) 
 like mario, or puzzle game with strange solutions, anyone can invent that and make that challange. 
 The challagens here must be really well done by experts in formulas and problems. But they did 
 a nice work with the gameplay. So congratilations! and thanks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fALConxxii
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 19, 2008 12:35 pm PT
Review:  Valve is back with an ingenious game to dust the cobwebs off your brain. You are required to defy 
 physics by making portals to reach high places. This great game has engineered amazing new game 
 mechanics like no other! You are a test subject working for Aperture Science. A computer named 
 GLaDOS guides you through and wins an award for one of the top ten phrases "First you shall complete 
 the testing, and then there will be cake." Soon, the story unveils itself and you end up becoming 
 a heartbreaker (play the game before questions!) . After you beat the game, the love song plays 
 and you watch the credits. This is where the game got the top ten songs award (from me) . Even after 
 you beat the game, there are challenges to earn awards and cake :) . Valve has made an instant classic! 
 This is a game you cannot miss! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mad_simon_000
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 18, 2008 4:56 am PT
Review:  Portal
  PC
  
  Portal is a Sci-Fi puzzle game, The game is set around is Portal gun that can shoot two portal 
 that you can sovle puzzles in away its base on the Gravity gun from Half-life the only drifferents 
 is that you fire portal instead of pulling things apart. There are 19 puzzle in overall plus 6 
 advanced maps. The puzzles get your mind thinking and some times you don't know if your up or down, 
 as you progess in the game the puzzles get longer and hard until your brain just gives in.
  
  The has some funny lines from the main computer, and though out the game you are promise cake 
 at the end of all the testing I will not spoil the ending but you will laugh, There are some refrences 
 from Half-life and Half-life 2. The way you do some of these puzzles can be different from person 
 to person, which makes the game fun to play.
  
  Overall Portal will make you mind blow at the puzzles and at graphics, The game is so so fun and 
 you will spend hours and hours trying to finish the game and then you spend month trying to beat 
 the advanced maps. So if you want a great puzzle game then and come and buy the Onrange Box and 
 play Portal and the other awsome games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bangell99
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 29, 2008 1:41 pm PT
Review:  Portal is a first-person puzzle game. You are a test subject in Aperture laboratories, "helping 
 mankind by trying out a new technology". Basically, you use a "portal device" to shoot an orange 
 portal and a blue portal into the wall, and enter through one and exit through the other. Sounds 
 simple? Hell no. 
  In each level, you exit an elevator, to find an area set out for you. You must use the portal device 
 to manipulate the objects and devices in this room to ultimately get you to the next elevator. 
 Your "mentor", if you like, is Gladys. She is a machine who operates the centre, and will guide 
 you through the early stages of the game. One of Portal's many strengths is its sense of humour 
 - Gladys will amuse you throughout with her comments and derivative pessimism. In the latter stages 
 of the game, the plot takes a twist, but I wont tell you about that. 
  The graphics are good, even though the engine is hardly pushed in Portal. All the environments 
 are appropriately clean and white, and the objects in the room look as they should.
  Unfortunately, I am not at liberty to divulge any information regarding the cake. You'll have to 
 see for yourself.
  To conclude, Portal is an innovative, unique experience that will appeal to any gamers. The puzzles 
 are interesting, fun and challenging. Often, after 
  completing one you were stuck on, you'll kick yourself for not seeing the solution. You owe it 
 to yourself to try it - this puzzle game might not look like much, but once you get in game, you 
 will be immersed. It's funny, it's different, it's just fun! Play it!
  Also, Portal has its own funky song - http://youtube. com/watch? v=Y6ljFaKRTrI 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SKaREO
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 12, 2008 7:49 pm PT
Review:  Never before has a studio released a title as audacious as Portal, a breakthrough in game development. 
 A review of this game simply does not do it justice. You have to experience Portal first-hand to 
 fully understand how extraordinarily fun it is.
  
  From the aptly named Aperture Science Center to the shrewdly maniacal GLaDOS, Portal brings an 
 eerie tone and intuitive set of dangerous puzzles that keep you on your toes. The only downside 
 to Portal is that the game is shorter than this review, but after you complete the game you can 
 attempt to get more cake and complete advanced challenges. 
  
  You might not fall in love with Portal, but you have to respect the adventurous innovation Valve 
 brings to the table. Valve deserves a standing ovation for being divergent in this industry of 
 look-alike franchises. I give this game a 9.0. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ItsmeChez
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 5, 2008 10:04 pm PT
Review:  I think that portal is the single most, challenging, fun, funny, and creative game of not only 
 valve and steam but of all of the games I have/have played. it deserves a perfect 10, It was hilarious 
 but in a weird guilty way. I also think it was the right amount of time put into the game and everything 
 to me is just right, I just wished I was clued in a little more! Don't forget to check out other 
 games life Half-Life, CS, TF. Aww I could go on forever. For any good, well any game lover Portal 
 is a must try wether you rent, buy, or even just watch, it catches your attention and brain. Hopefully 
 you agree that this game... is just breathtaking in it's own way! well I have to use up the remaining 
 characters somehow  
 recommend this game to people who like using their brain or even have one for that matter! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Midnightmare
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 5, 2008 9:54 am PT
Review:  Portal is a new game by valve everyone should have heard or read about. It comes with the "Orange 
 Box", a stunning collection of a few of the best games around, namely Half-Life 2 along with both 
 standalone addons Episode One and Two, the new version of the multiplayer shooter Team Fortress 
 and Portal itself.
  
  Portal is set in the Half-Life 2 universe. You play a young woman named Chell who is in charge 
 of testing a new device, the portal gun, developed by Aperture Science. You'll never notice a single 
 link to the Half-Life universe apart from this name, who will, most probably be important in the 
 third episode of Half-Life 2. As I mentioned you have been chosen to test this device, for this 
 purpose you walk through several testing areas in a testing lab which is very sterile and somehow 
 sad, like it derived from an insane's mind. You are guided by a melodious computer voice, named 
 GLaDOS (Genetic Lifeform and Disk Operating System) in a very, very humorous way which makes this 
 game so exciting. 
  
  You have been chosen to test the portal gun with which you can create two portals at walls and 
 floors with both mouse buttons. Simply spoken you go through the first portal and come out the 
 other. This might sound simple but you have to solve puzzles requiring to create the right momentum. 
 For instance, you have to cross an abyss by making one portal on the floor and the other at a high 
 point at the wall across from the side you want to go. Now you jump into the portal on the floor 
 and you will come out the portal in the wall and fall down into the portal on the floor. Now that 
 you have gained speed through the height you will again come out the portal on the wall but now 
 with a very high speed and you cross the abyss. Of course you can also take objects with you. There 
 are plenty of completely crazy puzzles like this, you also have to shoot bullets coming out of 
 one device into another device which is located somewhere else. All this is entertainted by GLaDOS 
 who is making intelligent, sometimes unintended and often very cynical jokes and wordplays. And 
 then there are those cute little machinegun turrets... After approximately two thirds of the game 
 you will be finished with the testing environments and slowly begin to notice that GLaDOS is trying 
 to kill you, thus you want to escape. But I will not tell anything more about the plot because 
 it gets so damn ridiculous and funny you have to play it yourself.
  
  The game is based on the source engine and it still looks really great. The surfaces simply look 
 great though the game is rather focused on simple (but beautiful) , clearly arranged environments 
 and artistic design. The effects look very nice but sometimes you can see clearly that the Source 
 engine is over 3 years old. The soundtrack is simply awesome. It reinforces the insane atmosphere 
 which is so outstanding in this game.
  
  You'll finish the game in a few hours but you will love it. Simply everything is good here: Graphics, 
 gameplay, story and of course the humour. You shouldn't miss this game and it is a good opportunity 
 to pick up the great Half-Life 2 and its addons as well as Team Fortress 2 if you haven't got it 
 yet. By playing the game through you can unlock several challenges like beating the levels in less 
 time or the same levels with a few difficulties more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AndyWilliams24
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 3, 2008 1:36 pm PT
Review:  Aperture Science has taken you against your will and has made you come face to face with a human 
 sized mouse maze. The exception? You have an Aperture Science Handheld Portal Device (Portal Gun) 
 at your disposal. But will you be able to get from point 'A' to point 'B' to claim your warm, moist, 
 delicious reward? That's cake im referring to, surely.
  
  This is a huge step; scratch that, a huge leap forward in the gaming industry. It has been a long 
 time since a new and highly innovative idea has been dropped into the world that is video games. 
 What is the thing you have always wanted in life? A watch that stopped time, a restart button and 
 a portal gun. But there's already games that let you alter the phenomenon that is time, so it's 
 about time we get a game that we can mess with the the assents of the universe.
  
  Portal is all about you not knowing what's happened/happening to you and being manipulated to complete 
 a human version of a rat maze. You need to use your brain, wit, and cunning idea's to advance through 
 each stage of the game. As you progress the game unfolds and twists occur. But will you be able 
 to survive Aperture Science's twisted generic mazes? Even for Cake?
  
  A First-Person-Shooter without weapons and violence doesn't sound all that exciting, right? Wrong, 
 you're just not being creative enough. Because this is exactly what Portal is, a FPS. Sure there 
 are no gun battles, but guns aren't in the criteria for a FPS. But this game has all the excitement 
 that most FPS's could only dream of. Portal knows how to keep you on your toes, and don't think 
 they will implement this gift.
  
  On the graphical side of things, Portal is just above par. But with that said, it's the perfect 
 example that proves quality is greater than eye candy. Don't take this out of context though, Portal 
 isn't a hideous game either, it just doesn't go the extra mile in the graphics department. But 
 it's a maze; you don't want bright colours leaping out at you. But maybe a few extra tones would 
 have been nice.
  
  This game comes into its own when it introduces you to the comedy that comes in the form of GLaDOS 
 (Genetic Life form and Disk Operating System) . A computer artificial intelligence unit that monitors 
 and directs you through the duration of the game. She will give your briefings about each test 
 chamber. Don't get fooled though, these comments won't help you in the slightest. There more in 
 the form of witty, sarcastic comments that will leave your side's aching from laughter. 
  
  Portal also introduces a lot of new technology into the gaming industry, mainly in the form of 
 a Portal gun. The portal gun can create two distinct portal ends, orange and blue. Neither is specifically 
 an entrance or exit though, you can use either. But with this, the gaming industry can thrive and 
 grow. This is something we have been needing for a while now, new ideas - and not having to recycle 
 old ones.
  
  The only major downfall about this game is the length; it can easily be completed in the space 
 of two/three hours depending on your general intelligence and puzzle solving abilities. Despite 
 this, the game is near flawless. A very unique gaming experience and should not be missed by anyone, 
 you don't have to be a fan of Half Life to enjoy this. As the series have very little correlation. 
 If need be the game is also available on Steam for a relatively low price is you would like to 
 try it out without purchasing the full Orange Box package.
  
  All in all, with everything said. Very unique, very heart warming, hilarious moments, a roller 
 coaster ride from start to finish.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: barneycalhoun
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 1, 2008 6:31 am PT
Review:  Portal has to be one of the best made puzzle games known to mankind. From the moment you walk through 
 your first portal to the ending credit song portal is packed with humor and sometimes fustrating 
 puzzles. 
  
  It seems odd to have a puzzle game in a first person style but it works. Portal gets you thinking 
 differently to a normal puzzle game because it defys the normal laws of physics. From creating 
 an infinite loop of with continuosly increasing speed to dropping a turret from the middle of a 
 room to the bottom of an abyss without touching it is one of the best features.
  
  The story is very humorus although sometmes is a little serious. You sart of thinking gladis the 
 main computer is your ally and you will get a cake when you finish the game, however about 3 quaters 
 of the way through you learn theat gladis has 'malfunctioned' slightly and tries to kill you. You 
 make your way through a darker more sinister bit of the base with grafiti of previous test subjects 
 to help you and gladis tries to confuse you. The only 'battle' in the game is right at the end 
 when you fight gladis. I particually liked the reference to black mesa in the credits. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SlikNik27
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 1, 2008 5:57 am PT
Review:  For those of you who haven't been paying attention, Portal is one of the five games included in 
 Valve's Orange Box. At first glance, it looks like a bare bones puzzler in the vain of IQ (PS) , 
 with splashes of color being the exception rather than the norm. At the game's onset, you wake 
 up in a lifeless, sterile room, encased in a glass box with little idea of what to do or where 
 to go. However, you are quickly brought up to speed by an omniscient computer-like voice with a 
 wry sense of humor.
  
  The game progresses from there in a logical fashion. You are introduced to the ins and outs (no 
 pun intended) of portals, in addition to the rules governing the test chambers. Eventually you'll 
 gain control of the portal gun itself and be free to place entrances and exits throughout the levels. 
 Taking into account momentum and portal placement becomes integral as you advance. Puzzles get 
 progressively harder, but never feel unfair or overly difficult. The solution is always just a 
 logical step away and the payoff is a real sense of accomplishment. In fact, beating the game rewards 
 the player with one of the greatest set of end credits in gaming history; you won't be able to 
 hold back a grin.
  
  While the game initially presents itself as a series of "get from point A to point B" mazes, it 
 actually houses an incredibly entertaining storyline. It trods that oh-so-familiar artificial intelligence-gone-mad 
 pathway, but the writing is so clever and the voice acting so spot-on, the game still manages to 
 feel fresh. If there is one downfall to Portal, it is its length; experienced gamers can warp their 
 way through in about 3 hours. This problem is somewhat alleviated by the advanced puzzles and challenge 
 modes that are made available upon beating the game, but one can't help yearning for more sci-fi 
 puzzle solving.
  
  As games go, Portal offers an incredibly unique take on the puzzle genre. It adds a great story 
 to some simple mechanics that will make your head spin. If you haven't played it yet, I suggest 
 you go to Steam and download it on its own or, better yet, pick up the complete Orange Box. Either 
 way, you'll get a great value for a game that you'll be playing for years to come.
  
  9.3 / 10
  
  `Nick 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zmery
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 30, 2008 8:53 am PT
Review:  Lots of humour, mind-blowing puzzles, funny maps, and very linear gaming is what is brought to 
 you by Portal... an amazing game which is likely to not take you that long to beat, but will sure 
 put you a smiling face... (or an headache when stuck at a chamber not that easy) but overall, this 
 is a GREAT game.... I recommend getting the Orange Box, this game is worth it almost by itself 
 :D
  
  In my opinion, Portal is a revolutionary game, and it is perhaps the behhing on FPS not so based 
 on action but on THINKING...
  
  Thanks Valve, we hoping a new addiction now ;) (yeah, biggest flaw on this game... it's too short... 
 and except for chamber 19, all chambers look a LOT alike... but new maps created by mod-editor 
 can be certainly found very soon (chambers 21 and 22 are already out,... (i haven't found 20 yet 
 though :P) and may bring that new extension that the game lacked.
  
  That said, all that is left asking is: Where's the cake? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gbrading
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 28, 2008 5:11 pm PT
Review:  Tucked away within The Orange Box, Portal at first doesn't appear to be anything particularly special. 
 Considering that Half-Life 2: Episode Two and Team Fortress Two got most of the press coverage 
 beforehand, it is somewhat surprising that Portal has been the most well received and critically 
 acclaimed game included in the package. However, it deserves every bit of credit it has got. The 
 game may be short, but is incredibly sweet, in a humorously dark and twisted kind of way.
  
  Set somewhere within the Half-Life universe, you play an unnamed female protagonist (identified 
 as "Chell" in the credits) , who awakes in the mysterious Aperture Science Enrichment Center. Your 
 goal as the "test subject" is to navigate your way through a series of Test Chambers, designed 
 to examine the effectiveness and capabilities of the Aperture Science Handheld Portal Device (otherwise 
 known as the Portal Gun) ; the only weapon you are given in the game. Your reward: the promise of 
 cake, and possibly brief counselling to deal with the trauma. Along the way, you are guided, assisted 
 and occasionally insulted by the emotionless, but utterly cake obsessed supercomputer running the 
 Enrichment Center program, whose name is later discovered to be GLaDOS (Genetic Lifeform and Disk 
 Operating System) . Whilst the plot may sound fairly straightforward, it naturally takes an unexpected 
 twist later on; one which is often foreshadowed within earlier portions, leading to a highly satisfying 
 and suitable ending.
  
  Gameplay consists of solving a series of logic-based spatial puzzles. Often they will require a 
 cube to be placed on a button, or an energy ball to be directed into a launcher, in order to eventually 
 reach the elevator and complete the test. Nearly all of these tests involve using the Portal Gun 
 to do things you would think totally impossible in real life, such as throwing a portal through 
 the ceiling, and another one through a wall, and then being able to look through the wall out of 
 the ceiling at yourself. Further, Valve have also patented an action now known as "flinging", where 
 you use a build-up of forward momentum to hurl yourself out of portals across great distances. 
 When you actually stop and think about it, that's something amazingly clever and cool when actually 
 put into practice. Whilst some of the puzzles aren't too tricky once you've figured them out, they 
 are still wonderfully fun to complete, even after multiple playthroughs.
  
  The intense atmosphere for the game is unique, and is delivered through several different mediums. 
 Firstly, the extremely minimalistic approach to decorating the test chambers, all of which appear 
 very clinical, official and also slightly sinister. Next, the subtle sound effects and quietly 
 chilling background music add to the cool, emotionless feel. Finally and most importantly, the 
 voice of GLaDOS (projected perfectly by Ellen McLain) is a tour de force. The script timing of 
 these lines is flawless, and the automated delivery makes GLaDOS and your journey through the Enrichment 
 Center a very ominously amusing experience. Plus, her lines in themselves are great, being both 
 witty and sadistic, with undertones ranging from the mildly disturbing to the psychotic; "Unbelievable. 
 You, (subject name here) must be the pride of (subject hometown here) ". Apart from GLaDOS, the 
 only other characters are the turrets which you encounter in several levels, whose eerily singsong 
 voices ("Can I help you?") once again add to the atmosphere. Plus, there is also the Weighted Companion 
 Cube, your faithful, adorable and most likely solitary "friend".
  
  General movement and sound is what you have come to expect from a Valve creation, that being almost 
 perfect. Something which is a little irritating this that it is impossible for your character to 
 sprint, although upon closer examination of her legs, it can be seen that she has metal springs 
 attached below the knee, to prevent injury when falling from great heights. These theoretically 
 could prevent her from sprinting. On top of the normal game, there are also several extras, such 
 as advanced versions of several of the test chambers, and challenges, where you attempt to complete 
 chambers using the least portals, time or steps. The advanced chambers are a good adventure, but 
 some problems arise with the challenges. Whilst the least portals challenge is doable and enjoyable 
 when you apply some logic, the least time and steps challenges are almost impossible. One problem 
 with the steps challenge is that it is difficult to predict exactly what will count as a "step", 
 and you can often move what you might think to be a single pace and discover it counted as four. 
 Further, the inability to sprint hampers the time based challenges, and requires almost superhuman 
 reflexes in order to complete within the allotted time.
  
  The greatest reason for Portal's success is because it is something truly unique in gaming. You 
 actually have to be able to "think with portals" in order to complete many of the experiments, 
 and get your head around the strange logic of the game. Though it may be short, almost every second 
 is great fun, and there is definite room for a sequel. Couple that with an awesome darkly comedic 
 script delivered through GLaDOS, and you have yourself a game which will very soon become a classic. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fanboy-buster
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 25, 2008 7:02 pm PT
Review:  As time passes, the FPS genre has been making a lot of generic "kill the aliens, save the world" 
 games or War games.
  But, what else can you make with a First Person Shooter?
  Portal is the answer to everyone who got tired of FPS's or want a new breath of fresh air.
  
 
  In Portal, you take the role of Chell Johnson, a test subject for a top-secret laboratory called 
 Aperture Science. You wake up in a room, and greeted by an unforgetable voice, the voice of GLaDOS, 
 the supercomputer who will try to be your friend, your judge and your executioner.
  The idea of the game is pretty simple: Use a portal-making gun to travel through space. Make and 
 A Portal and a B Portal and go through them to reach other areas. Pretty Simple right.
  But it isn't as simple as it looks. It has great depth since you have to use Portal's in as many 
 ways as you can think in order to beat the level. There isn't a clear path, you make your own by 
 interacting with Weighted Cubes and cute, deathly Turrets.
  There are several ways to beat the level, choose yours.
  
  Teachnically, the game has very 
 little to offer in the first levels, plain, white walls, or dark blocks. But the models look really 
 good, the cubes are very well stylized, the turrets are also plain, but very smooth, and the Portal 
 gun is also very smooth.
  The Portals have particle effects that make them look pretty, and make them easy to spot.
  It 
 has low system requirements, (since my decent laptop could run it at med settings smoothly) so 
 it can be played by everyone.
  
  One of the most important aspect is the character of GLaDOS, the supercomputer. It makes snappy 
 comments, sarcastic mentions and a lot of stuff that really get you thinking. She lures you to 
 the end by promising "cake" and a party with all your friends invited. This character is one of 
 the best made in a game.
  
  But is this game perfect? Almost, the only con I could find is the lenght. You can finish the game 
 in 4 hours, which is pretty short. But that short experience is one of the best the videogame market 
 can offer you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: migduvednok
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 23, 2008 5:23 am PT
Review:  This is an absolutely amazing game! 
  
  Not just being a miniature of semi-halflife2 mechanics, it could definately be a game in it's own 
 right, and would still get top-marks. 
  
  It's hilarous - MANY times i laugh out out and hard, that computer that comments you is dry and 
 wry to the bone, and the ending is not only tying up ends but also driving the game's humour and 
 self irony absolutely over the top. 
  
  An amazing feat !
  do yourself the favor of playing the game through with the commentary track on, as well afterwards.
 
  
  (hundred words hundred words hundred words hundred words hundred words hundred words hundred words 
 hundred words hundred words hundred words hundred words hundred words hundred words hundred words 
 hundred words hundred words hundred words hundred words hundred words hundred words) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 75X
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 20, 2008 9:58 pm PT
Review:  Portal is a puzzle game where you use a portal gun to solve puzzles. You start off with a computer 
 program named GLaDOS setting you up with a test chamber that you must complete to progress to the 
 next chamber. Eventually, you'll acquire the portal gun and the ability to create separate portals. 
 The game starts out well and it stays interesting through-out until the end. It's a short and easy 
 game that never overstays it's welcome.
  
  Gameplay: The whole game is basically a huge puzzle, but not with it's test chambers. GLaDOS pretty 
 much leads you through-out the entire game giving sometimes misleading advice as you figure out 
 how to complete each test chamber. Though, you're probably not going to have trouble solving any 
 of the puzzles the game throws at you, but they use the portal mechanic quite well using momentum 
 redirection. The humor is no doubt the best part of the game, with every line being written and 
 delivered in such unforgettable ways.
  
  
  Graphics: Using the source engine, everything looks quite good. The models for the characters look 
 nice while the textures are simple but clean. The style stays fresh through-out, and the game scales 
 quite well with older computers.
  
  
  Sound: Definitely the best part of the game. From the voice acting to the sound effects - you'll 
 really enjoy what this game has to offer in the audio department.
  
  
  Value: For $20, it might be worthwhile for about a weekend worth of gameplay to get the most out 
 of this game (Time trails, achievements, etc) , but if you're planning on getting the Orange Box, 
 it suits the package perfectly.
  
  
  Tilt: Overall, Portal is a good game, but it doesn't offer much of a challenge. The interesting 
 premise and outstandingly good voice work makes this worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Humikimi
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 18, 2008 8:42 pm PT
Review:  The concept of Portal is simple enough. You create a portal (a doorway essentially) and connect 
 to another portal in order to make a pathway for yourself and objects in order to solve a series 
 of puzzles. This turns very interesting very fast.
  
  The game starts off slowly enough, taking baby steps in familiarizing you with the mechanics of 
 the portal device and introducing you to the types of puzzles you will be encountering, then it 
 just lets loose with all the lessons you learned in a handful of fantastically crafted puzzles. 
 The joy of this game isn't the vertigo you may feel after jumping from a portal in the floor only 
 to be re-oriented in a portal made through a wall, or from the many uses of a simple little cube, 
 or the beautifully crafted puzzles, but the best part is the fact that many players will find various 
 ways of solving these puzzles. Once you have passed the baby steps, many of the puzzles are solvable 
 by all sorts of means. I myself have watched my friend get through the game in ways that I would 
 never had though of when I had tried to get through. This is great, because that means that the 
 game sort of molds itself to your personality and play style. I'd rather not expand too much on 
 the puzzles though, in fear of spoiling them, but be aware that this is more of a puzzle game in 
 first person view rather than an fps game with puzzles in it.
  
  As for the story, within the game's time period it seems like a very simple story, with only a 
 little suspense near the end. Like all of Valve's games though, the true depth lies in the details. 
 If you take the time to actually connect this game to certain events that happen in the Half-Life 
 games (with some obvious hints given in Episode Two) , you will notice that this game actually plays 
 a VERY important part in Half-Life. VERY important.
  
  The game plays great, and the sound is no exception to this. With how puzzle oriented this game 
 is, the sounds do not play that great of a roll. What sound effects there are sound fantastic, 
 and actually the lack of cluttered sounds is good, because it allows for better thinking and helps 
 you notice certain objectives easier. To make things interesting though, is the wonderful GlaDOS, 
 who narrates for you throughout the game, and has the most wonderful personality I have seen in 
 the game. She will make you smile throughout the game, even in the even of the ending. Ellen McLain 
 did a wonderful job as GlaDOS and I'm glad it was her and nobody else.
  
  Unfortunately, the simplicity of the sound isn't as acceptable in the graphics department. Granted, 
 with the shortness of the game, variety might cause confusion, but really there was no need for 
 having the same looking textures in ALL the test chambers, with the only exception being in the 
 end of the game. That's not to say that the game looks bad, because the Source engine looks great 
 when used the way it is in Portal, with the great 'sanitized' look and shiny walls, but it just 
 gets a little tiring looking at the same thing all the time.
  
  Still, the game is extremely satisfying for every minute you play it, and you will definately feel 
 a great level of accomplishment for every goal you complete. Unfortunately though, the game can 
 be completed in 2-4 hours (depending on your puzzle solving skills) , which is immensely short. 
 Fortunately, there is a lot of replay value. There are a bunch of interesting achievements to unlock, 
 6 advanced versions of the last 6 levels (not including the finale level) and 18 challenges for 
 the normal versions of these 6 levels which actually ARE very challenging. To top it all off is 
 a developer's commentary, which is not only interesting in the making of the game, but gives you 
 insights as to why little details are in the game and also different ways to solve the puzzles. 
 
  
  Really, this is a great puzzle game that is solvable by people who aren't great by puzzles, but 
 still helps to satisfy those who are, with appropriate levels of challenge and fun. It's brilliant 
 use of a simple concept makes it stand out as one of the best original games I got to play within 
 the last year or so, and you should not deprive yourself of this possibly naseauting but often 
 blissful experience. Enjoy.
  
  Graphics: 8/10
  Sound: 10/10
  Gameplay: 10/10
  Value: 9/10
  
  OVERALL: 9.0/10 (9.25/10.0) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: infect999
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 15, 2008 5:11 pm PT
Review:  PROS: Solid gameplay, graphics hold up well against current standards, puzzles are well thought-out, 
 great sound, hilarious dark humor
  
  CONS: Very short, not good for people who have issues with motion sickness, gave me cravings for 
 chocolate cake
  
  Awhile ago, I was browsing GameSpot and came across a trailer for a game called Portal. The concept 
 of the game was interesting... having the ability to shoot portals wherever you wanted could lead 
 to endless possibilities. So, I started tracking the game.
  
  Later, Valve releases this gem with a package known as The Orange Box. Only having $30 to spend, 
 I chose to buy this title over Steam instead of TF2, and I'm quite glad I did.
  
  Portal is a first-person puzzle game in which the puzzles are solved by the use of a gun that places 
 portals on different surfaces. There is a very loose story in the game that picks up more in the 
 last hour-or-so of the game, but it's enough to keep you moving forward.
  
  The puzzles are simple, yet complex, and made possible by Valve's Source engine. You will be using 
 portals to travel to the opposite side of a room, propel yourself across gaps, climb up platforms 
 towering above one another, and much more. The puzzles will keep you thinking, but are a ton of 
 fun to solve.
  
  The graphics on the Source engine are holding up surprisingly well compared to the commonly used 
 UE3. The game looks great for the most part, and a new motion blur effect has been added, helping 
 the game look more realistic. The sound is great too, though it is limited. The best sound in the 
 game has to be GLaDOS, your "guide" throughout the game. As you progress through the game, she 
 will utter some of the best dark humor you will ever year. The game will keep you laughing throughout, 
 with hilarious moments involving everything from Weighted Companion Cubes to cake. The humor adds 
 a great deal to the overall experience, so much that it wouldn't have been nearly as good without 
 it.
  
  For most people, the game will last 3-4 hours, depending on how good you are at solving puzzles. 
 The last hour of the game is an exhilirating experience, and takes the game beyond what you could've 
 expected. To say more will spoil it for you, though. The length is the only major downside to the 
 game.
  
  This is defintetely, no-doubt-about-it, the best game of 2007. Period. The only reason it didn't 
 win any game-of-the-year awards was because it was commonly associated with The Orange Box as a 
 whole. But it is beyond everything else in that box. All of the parts add up into the best afternoon 
 you will ever have. If you bought or are going to buy The Orange Box, don't pass this up. If you 
 don't want The Orange Box, but have a decent PC, pick up this game on Steam. It's only $20. And 
 it's the best $20 you will ever spend. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: antimat0r
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 15, 2008 5:53 am PT
Review:  Portal is part of Valves 'Orange box' which also comes with HL2, + ep1 and ep2 topped off with 
 the online madness which is Team fortress2 (review yet to come) .
  
  I wont go into too much detail about the game, as there are over 100 reviews already, which im 
 fairly certain all say the game is about using portals to solve puzzles.
  
  Want i wanted to address, was how did this game get 90% (varying in different mags) ? Im not saying 
 i dont like the game, quite the opposite, but for a game that takes under 3 hours to complete. 
 I mean it got a higher review then HL2: ep 2...
  
  When all is done, its only a mini-game and ask yourself when rating this game, 'would you pay 30 
 for 3 hours?'. Worth getting it through the Orange box bundle, wouldnt recommend buying it on its 
 own via steam. (review too short and needed more words to be allowed, hence this sentence) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Marksman2200
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 13, 2008 5:42 pm PT
Review:  Now, when I bought The Orange Box, this was the first game I played, and 3 hours later I was finished 
 it. The games' length depends on how good you are at problem solving. For some it will take a few 
 hours, to others it will take a eternity. Portal is game that makes you think, and it does that 
 well.
  
  The whole idea of the game revolves around the thought of how portals work. Something goes in one, 
 and comes out another, and this game uses it to the fullest. From transportation to puzzle solving, 
 to get rid of enemies. You don't even start with the Aperture Portal device. But you do gain it 
 after the first few test areas. But then it's not even the full device. But this makes you think 
 even more. But you do gain the second part of the device just a few levels after gaining the first 
 part. This is when the fun begins. With both parts of the device you can do some pretty fun stuff. 
 You can put one above and below and go into a never-ending free-fall. Or you can chase yourself. 
 The possibilities are endless. But having both parts of the device, means the puzzles become harder. 
 
  
  The puzzles differ from test area to test area. The good thing about each test area, they show 
 what to expect in each area when hey show you the test area number. Each one means something different. 
 The falling box, means a puzzle involving the pressure pads and storage cube, the cube meets head 
 means watch for falling cubes. The symbols literally mean what you are bound to face.
  
  With the PC version came a series of achievements that would be recorded on Valve's online community 
 called Steam. These achievements ranged from falling 30,000 feet and living called "Terminal Velocity" 
 to destroying all camera called "Camera Shy". There are 14 achievements in all and their difficulty 
 range from pretty easy to extremely hard.
  
  The story was well... perfect. You are women who was kidnapped at a young age by the Aperture Science 
 Corporation. Then so many years later you are awaken by test labs main computer GLaDOS. She puts 
 you through the test areas promising "Cake" as a reward for finishing all the tests. As you go 
 through the game, GLaDOS is talking to you. Sometimes you hear her glitch up. Making you think 
 if GLaDOS is broken. This is where Portal's humor comes from. If you take a good listen to GLaDOS 
 you will hear about what happened at the facility. As you go through the game there will be certain 
 parts where you find a part of the test area which broken. When you go inside, you will see words 
 written in blood or something else, saying "Cake is a lie!" This makes you think even more on the 
 story. Like what do they mean, what am I to expect. Once you get to "Cake" you learn your just 
 another lab rat and is going to be burned alive. So what do you do, escape. GLaDOS keeps telling 
 you it was a joke and you should return and other stuff. The story comes to an end when you face 
 of against GLaDOS. This where all the loose ends are found out. Like what happened to everyone 
 and why. 
  
  After you finish the main game, you can go back and do challenges in each test area. There are 
 3 different challenges, fewest steps, fastest time and fewest portals. That gives you more challenge 
 in these chambers and gives you more time to take a good look at the great level design done by 
 Valve. Then there are the 6 advanced chambers. But these "advanced" chambers are just chambers 
 13-18 re-done to make it more challenging and these challenges help to achieve other achievements 
 in the game.
  
  I have to admit that the ending is possibly the best part of the game. The credits were greatly 
 done and the theme is possibly the catchiest theme you'll ever hear. Portal is in my mind the best 
 game in The Orange Box and is must have for PC gamers.
  
  Pros: Great story, great level design, humorous, right amount of difficulty
  Cons: puzzles can 
 be difficult for those not good at problem solving.
  
  I really rate this game a 9.8 out of 10 and it surely deserves the "Cake" it presents. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: samusarmada
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 11, 2008 3:11 pm PT
Review:  Portal is the least known game in The Orange Box and as such has none of the expectations and predispositions 
 ladled across it that the other two new features (Team Fortress 2 and Half Life 2: Episode 2) in 
 the collection have, because of this Portal will most likely be considered an afterthought to many 
 buyers as they will have bought the collection for either of the formerly named new arrivals mentioned 
 above. This gives Portal the added benefit of having not only no pressure on it succeeding but 
 because it is a game that so few have heard about most will begin the game with little or no idea 
 of what to expect and this is why Portal will leave such a startling impression on all those who 
 play it. It is both unique and excellent, and this is why it scores so highly.
  
  The games main principle involves the Portal gun, a device that enables you to fire two portals 
 at different areas of a room. One of the portals will act as an entrance and the other will act 
 as the exit. Your two portals will exist as two colours; blue and orange and are interchangeable 
 between entrance and exit. Your progression through the game involves you going through a series 
 of "test labs" which act as levels. What Portal does well is create a learning curve that is neither 
 too slow nor too fast. The game guides you through your use of the Portal gun very carefully, always 
 showing you what you can do with the device and how you can do this to complete your "test". It 
 is an incredibly well designed tutorial system because the game never leaves you clueless or dumbfounded 
 as to how to, or how you completed something. Indeed you will not gain access to the Portal gun 
 until several test labs in and it will take a further few to fully gain the ability to launch two 
 portals. If it sounds slow then you are right. The game does guide you in very carefully but this 
 is essential if you are to understand the fairly complex nature of the game, and although the game 
 never challenges you for too long this is only because the games progression system is so finely 
 tuned; something that is incredibly rare to a genre that is notoriously famous for its difficulty 
 spikes.
  
  Based on this alone and Portal would still succeed as an expertly crafted puzzle game, and would 
 remain a worthy if slightly out of place addition to The Orange Box. But if you had noticed the 
 score I have given Portal then you would know that Portal goes way beyond what is essentially a 
 mod based game. What separates Portal from almost every other game out there is that it is astonishingly 
 well written, from its intriguing start to its startling ending the games story is nothing short 
 of phenomenal. Like all great things Portals story starts small, your relationship with the computerised 
 AI system initially appears to be little more than that of waypoint marker, casually marking out 
 your progress with a slightly ironic tone. But as the game progresses and its conversations with 
 you start to deepen things start to take a maniacally dark tone. The humour built into Portal is 
 pitch perfect with every line coming from the AI's mouth being both humorous and alarming. It's 
 a balance that Portal seems to be a master of sticking to. The AI's voice is never incessant, the 
 dialogue never overly long and every sentence will leave you equally perplexed as it does incited. 
 This progression from humour to the downright sinister is complemented by a sense of atmosphere 
 that is truly impressive. The game never presents itself as overly oppressive but it's the little 
 things such as the tinted glass looking down on you or the ever watchful security cameras that 
 really make you feel like a mouse caught in a maze. Even when you gain a wider perspective don't 
 even think that you are even remotely in control. The game perfectly keeps the sense of mystery 
 alive throughout the whole of its story and even when all is said and done (and you are treated 
 to one of the best endings of a game ever made) there are still some things left unsaid. It is 
 indeed this sense of mystery that makes the relatively short single player story so memorable, 
 and at only 3 or 4 hours long Portal will initially seem short. But with the game type you are 
 dealing with as well as the needs of the games progression it is an ideal length. With such a short 
 game time Portal never outstays its welcome, it constantly keeps you on your toes and it constantly 
 offers you new things. The fact that you can complete it in an afternoon only leaves you with the 
 experience all the longer. It is refreshing to see a game that knows the lengths with which it 
 can play with its own ideas and not try to draw them out with unnecessary padding
  
  Portal is not merely a masterpiece; it is a faultless masterpiece. There is nothing about the game 
 that can be detrimentally factored away from a score total. In terms of design, art work, sound, 
 and gameplay mechanics it is first-class. Its story and writing are not only exceptional pieces 
 of work they are the best pieces of work a videogame has ever seen. Its perfect understanding of 
 how to make the player feel like they are being played is brilliantly executed, and the way it 
 manages to keep you on your toes even when you think the tables have turned is priceless. And when 
 you do finally finish Portal, when you do finally let go of that mouse and realise what you have 
 just finished, when you do realise that you are thinking about a piece of cake rather than an epic 
 boss battle or a thrilling chase scene. You will realise what Portal is; charming, astonishing, 
 frightening and enthralling, perfectly timed and perfectly executed. Surely, that is what a perfect 
 ten is all about. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nocke
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 11, 2008 9:05 am PT
Review:  As a big fan of the Half Life games, I got the Orange Box mainly for Episode Two. But I found out 
 that it included a real gem... PORTAL.
  
  The use of Valve's physics and graphics engine is sublime, and it's quite refreshing to only use 
 WASD, space and the one weapon in comparison to the buttonmashing going on in various other FPS.
 
  
  The problemsolving in the game is quite easy, but not to the point where you laughing your way 
 through them. Some actually took me a couple of minutes to get past the first time around.
  
  The only real negative comment I have about the game is it's lenght... it's painfully short!
 
  
  The first time it took me about 2 hrs to get through...
  
  But anyways, if you're after a fun ride of problemsolving, great and clean graphics and feeling 
 like a physics and momentum pro; it's a game for you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zakld
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 8, 2008 9:25 am PT
Review:  I don't really know how to review this game. I have just finished it and I loved the innovation 
 it is absolutely briiliant and that awards this game at least 7. Graphics are ordinary and there 
 aren't many things around. But then again if the game were to be made differently it wouldn; t be 
 weird as it is which was probably the aim of the developers and successfully delivered. 
  
  The storyline is quite interesting and the only character in the game that talks is quite funny 
 so I really liked it. Some of the ideas are weird but that's good because they made fun out of 
 it all. 
  
  I finished the game in about 6 hours so it is very short. Overall, I would award it at least 7 
 but because of other bits that I liked and wishing to award new ideas I will award it 7.5. I would 
 have given it 8 had the storyline been a bit further developed. 
  
  As for the length, it is short but it is perfect since more puzzles would have been boring. Perhaps 
 one or two more long ones would have been good, but after you finish the game you can play the 
 same levels but harder
  
  
  
  
  My marking system is as follows:
  
  10 - Absolute Legend
  9 - Must Be Played
  8 - Excellent and Worth Your Time
  7 - Worth playing 
 if you have nothing else to play
  6 - worh playing if you have nothing to play and are incredbly bored and have not got absolutely 
 anything else to do. (Barely playable/enjoyable) . 
  
  I don't give marks 1-5 as if a game starts sucking I don't finish it, so I only review the games 
 that are barely playable (6) to the absolutely amazingly incredible ones (10)
  
  I will also probably keep my reviews short as I don't like discovering too much about the gameplay. 
 I only like to give my quick opinion and get on with life.
  
  Best Wishes to everyone
  
  Zak 
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bobbsy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 6, 2008 11:11 am PT
Review:  I'm so impressed with this game. Such a simple idea tempered with Valve's brilliant level designs 
 make it a joy to play. I think I will see portals in my sleep tonight Given that Valve released 
 HL2 Ep2 and TF2 along with Portal simply reaffirms that Valve are the greatest game developers 
 on the planet. Single handedly Valve have restored my faith is PC gaming, I can't give greater 
 praise than that. Role on Portal 2.. the audio commentary hinted that there would be future games 
 in this series, I really can't wait for the day Portal 2 hits the shelves. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jOnGuSm0e
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 2, 2008 10:30 am PT
Review:  I was hearing a lot of good things about this game, and after watching a video about it decided 
 to give it a go. Very glad I did!
  
  In Portal, the idea is simple. It's not just another FPS. You shoot one portal, you shoot another 
 portal, and you walk through one portal to the other. You can gain speed with portals, you can 
 get basically anywhere.
  
  Storyline: 9/10
  Controls: 10/10
  Graphics: 9/10
  Sound: 10/10
  Value: 8/10
  
  Alright, the story was great and very funny. It kept you hooked 
 and wanting to play more. The controls were nailed down, no surprise there being a Valve game. 
 I gave Value an 8, but that's only if you're buying this game separately (ie: not in the Orange 
 Box.) It's not too long, so I think you'd be better off getting it with Orange Box. 
  
  On another note, I think that it's a good thing that it's not long, the length is honestly perfect.
 
  
  So, if you're interested in any of the other Orange Box games, I would definitely buy it.
  
 
  Overall: 9.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zeus_gb
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 4, 2008 3:34 am PT
Review:  Good points:
  
  Nice graphics.
  Advanced and challenge maps included.
  Superb voice acting.
  Good humor.
  Achievements (if you like that sort of thing) .
  Innovative 
 gameplay style.
  Awesome credits song.
  
  Bad points:
  
  Too short.
  The first 17 levels are quite easy.
  
  Portal is one of the most innovative and entertaining 
 puzzle games i've played in a quite a while. The object of the game in simple terms is to use the 
 portals that your portal gun shots to manipulate the world around you and thus solve the puzzles 
 on the level. The puzzles of course get harder and more complex as you get further into the game. 
 Level by level the obstacles and puzzles change, this forces you to use the portals in new ways.
 
  
  Portals graphics are lean, clean, sharp and there's no unneeded fluff like a lot of games. Even 
 without the unneeded fluff the environments look the part.
  
  There aren't a great deal of sound effects in the game but that's to be expected because of the 
 games format. The sound effects that are there are of the quality i've come to expect from modern 
 games. The lady that does the voice acting for GLaDOS really does the part justice, she fits in 
 well with the game and is absolutely superb.
  
  The game does feel short but the developers have added some Advanced and challenge maps to keep 
 your going back for more as well as game achievements. So there is at least some re-playability 
 in the game.
  
  Overall Portal is a great if not short puzzle game with some innovative gameplay and superb humor. 
 It's a must have game for anyone even if you're not a fan of first person games or puzzle games.
 
  
  Here's looking forward to the next Portal! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trenchermanX
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 28, 2007 8:24 am PT
Review:  As I loaded up the game I was curious how exactly this portal business would work. I remembered 
 watching the trailer about a year or so ago and thought back to that moment, when I thought portal 
 would be THE GAME to play. Not because of the graphics or because it was being shipped as part 
 of the OB. But because up until playing Pr&y, it was a novel idea (at least to me) . So I start 
 the game up and am ready. The games beginning is reminiscent of the HL2 games, but no surprise 
 there huh? It constantly feels like HL2, the music, look and game play are all top notch and I 
 cannot stress enough how talented the people that made this and HL2 are. As puzzle- makers they 
 aren't, in my humble opinion, surpassed by any others. I loved Bio$hock, yet it lacked exactly 
 this: a few puzzles here and there, something to get you to think, not just mindlessly aim and 
 shoot. And this game does puzzle-solving justice. They aren't difficult for the advanced gamer 
 but they might just give newbies a hard time. But if you want to put fun back in gaming, do hit 
 this game up. You will NOT be disappointed. The only reason I don't give this game a 10 is that 
 it's only a couple hours long. Maybe that's a good thing. See for yourself. Game on! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TallicaFan2005
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 27, 2007 5:24 pm PT
Review:  Portal is just a novelty game thrown into The Orange Box to add some bulk, right? Absolutely not. 
 Portal is one of the most innovative and entertaining games released. Basically you have to manipulate 
 the world around you using portals (shot from your portal gun) , to solve puzzles that get more 
 complex as you advance in the game. However, it's not as straightforward as you might think. The 
 obstacles change, forcing you to use your portal abilities in new ways.
  
  The environment of Portal is amazing, yet so simple. You wake up in a glass chamber, and are greeted 
 by the wonderful computer voice of Gladus. Everything is all shiny like a futuristic laboratory 
 should look. The game looks as nice as it needs to look, and better yet, you don't need an insane 
 graphics card to handle it.
  
  The controls are similar to most first person shooters (though I wouldn't call this an FPS) , although 
 at times you might wish you could jump more accurately. It's not a big deal at all though.
  
  The difficulty at the game is perfect. If you get stuck on a puzzle, your not likely to be 
 stranded forever. You simply have to play around with the portals (and environment) until something 
 clicks and your able to move on (hopefully) . Also, there is no limit on lives, if you "die", you 
 can simply start off close to where you left off (and you can save at any time as well) .
  
  In the end, Portal is a game that will challenge you, entertain you, and just make you laugh. There 
 is plenty to be found, and of course there is always cake. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: More_Dakka
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 26, 2007 2:39 pm PT
Review:  At first glance- you'll probably think portal is some generic, low-budget shooter published by 
 the guys at Valve for the Orange Box. Don't let yourself think that though- Portal is a rare gem 
 that you should not bypass. Not only is it one of the most inventive games this year, but its also 
 one of this year's most unexpected successes.
  
  The story of portal is said to somehow intertwine with the current plotline of the Half-life 2 
 series. This was made fairly clear in episode 2, but we won't be seeing the true extent of this 
 bond of storylines until episode 3 comes out. Whatever the case- the story within Portal is actually 
 for the most part non-existant. The only facts you know are that you've woken up within the walls 
 of Aperture Science. All of the sudden- your guided through a series of "tests" by the wacky AI 
 Glados. So you set out on these tests- but the nice fact about the story of portal is not necessarly 
 whats going on- but what HAS been going on. You'll find many interesting clues to the story if 
 you really take the time to explore the hallways and rooms you find in the game.
  
  The majority of gameplay surrounds the one-and-only weapon you get in portal- the portal gun. The 
 portal gun allows you to spawn up to 2 portals that you can use to solve the various puzzles your 
 faced with. With these portals- you can do a whole lot of stuff- too much to list here. Especially 
 if you decide to fool around and get inventive. Not that the game tries to limit you or anything 
 though- for you'll have to use your wits more and more as the game gets trickier and trickier. 
 All the while- Glados will be pushing you along with its witty remarks regarding various things- 
 you- what you just went through- what you have to do- the upcoming test- etc. 
  
  Glados may be the only other main character in Portal, but the characters present are one of Portal's 
 best aspects. Glados can be extremely funny, especially in the second half of the game as she gets 
 obviously more and more iritated with you. Then there are the cute little turrets that will occasionally 
 be put in your way- complete with innocent voices with cute remarks such as "nap time!" or "Please 
 put me down". The voice work here- while limited in quantity- it top-notch in quality.
  
  The graphics of portal also are pretty decent. The game definitely benefits from the power of Valve's 
 source engine, and as such the game looks fairly sharp with excellent textures and particle effects. 
 The only downside here is that the environments in portal are actually quite bland. The sound of 
 the game is also decent, but obviously has been majoritively recycled from the Half-life series.
 
  
  The only major problem portal suffers from is its length- its a very short joy ride. But despite 
 this- the inventivness of what portal offers should not be missed.
  
  Pros: Inventive gameplay. Glados and cute turrets. Excellent voice acting sweetens the deal with 
 these characters.
  
  Cons: Very short. Environments are a bit bland.
  
  Recommendable for: This is the best offering from the Orange box- hands down. Puzzle gamers will 
 relish in Portal. Non-puzzle gamers who are willing to think outside the box should also give portal 
 a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fat_otter
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 23, 2007 5:12 pm PT
Review:  Portal was a game announced at E3 06 and had everyone talking. The concept is very simple. You 
 have a gun that shoots two, different-colored portals (orange and blue) , and when you walk through 
 one, you come out the other. You'll find yourself solving puzzles that range from elementary-grade 
 simple, to bain dramageing. Your ultimate goal for completing each "test chamber" is getting to 
 the exit. But don't expect it to be a walk in the park. You might need to activate a swich, carry 
 a "weighted companion cube" (I'm sorry I incinerated you! Play the game to find out what I mean.) , 
 or put an energy ball into a slot that can be several hundred feet away. The game runs on Valve's 
 incredible Source engine, which even three years later, still looks and runs better then most of 
 the stuff we're playing today. When you move a box or knock a turret over, it looks incredibly 
 realistic thanks to the awsome Havok physics engine. But what might send Portal over the top is 
 GLaDOS. This robot with a stereotypical female robotic voice guides you throughout the game, giving 
 you tips, telling you storys, and telling you other random junk. Portal is jam-packed with tons 
 of Valve-based inside jokes. (Told by GLaDOS.) Unfortunatley, The Orange Box is my first Valve 
 game, so I didn't get any of the jokes, but I still had some laughs which rarley come when I play 
 games. While there isn't any story to Portal, there is still a "rising tension" and climax to the 
 game which would make my english teacher proud. I won't spoil the ending, but lets just say that 
 something unexpected happens. So in the end, Poral is nothing short of genius, and is something 
 you can expect from noone else but the brilliant minds of Valve. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Legather
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 21, 2007 4:15 pm PT
Review:  It's short.
  
  Now that the bad is out the way, everything else is praise. It's as pretty as HL2, naturally. The 
 idea for the game may not be original but it has been employed spectacularly. It twists you brain 
 as you try to figure your way around the levels, all the while being egged on by GLaDOS, your constant 
 vocal companion.
  
  The most important part of Portal is the humour and the plot. Out and out, it is hilarious. Be 
 it the promise of an ultimate reward (read: cake) , the brief disclaimers against death, lying and 
 the corporate bring your daughter to work event, your are guaranteed a laugh. Even the turrets 
 will make you chuckle.
  
  I cannot enthuse enough about Portal, I had played an online flash version and entertaining though 
 it was, it cannot hope to match the entertainment of Portal proper.
  
  Brilliant. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drewlll2ll
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 19, 2007 4:27 pm PT
Review:  I had been waiting for Portal ever since I heard about it on Steam News, and believe me it was 
 well worth the wait. The gameplay itself is amazing, there are just so many things you can do with 
 the "portal gun". You can use any objects in the game to your advantage, it makes the challenging 
 puzzles a great part of gameplay. The difficulty of the puzzles starts out easy and by the end 
 it pretty much forces you to think creatively and pay attention to your environment. Another thing, 
 GLaDOS "encourages" you throughout the whole game with some amazing lines. Out of the entire game, 
 the best part has to be the song at the end. It is probably one of the best original songs in a 
 video game that I have ever heard. Kudos to the writer, Jonathon Coulton, and to the voice actress 
 who played GLaDOS. But even after you beat the game there is still more "research to be done" as 
 you can go back and complete the last few test chambers on timed or advanced modes, each with their 
 own set of unique added challenges. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: la_cassanova
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 18, 2007 2:42 am PT
Review:  Half-Life's new entry into the gaming industry, Portal, is a game that won't let you sleep... Furnished 
 with extraordinary intelligence, the game offers a gameplay that is unparalleled... The only gun 
 you get is the portal creating gun, your only companion throughout the game...
  Now whether it be huge walls, bullet-firing turrets, or never-ending confusing labyrinths, you 
 have to work your way through all these puzzles to the end...
  The game begins with you as a test subject, designed to be tested while completing the massive 
 but impressive test rooms from 1-19... A woman, who's voice is constantly in the background is 
 speaking to you...
  After the termination of the course, what you have to do is to escape from becoming a 'cake', as 
 you are being thrown straight into the fire...
  Next, the game requires you to fight your way out of the testing facility with the help of the 
 gun and the loads of graffiti on the walls indicating where to go... The gun came make portals 
 on almost every wall, except a few, and you are free to pick up any lying object, and use it to 
 your advantage...
  With these strange commodities, and quite many funny dialogues throughout the gameplay, you are 
 required to complete this game in approximately 5 hours...
  As if this were not enough, the game has the option of advanced chambers, and least portals, steps, 
 time challenges where you can try and beat your own record... The advanced chambers raise the difficulty 
 to a new level altogether, and do not leave the game easy anymore...
  One thing is for sure, though-This game is a wholly new concept for the gaming world, and such 
 games are always welcome in the industry... This game surely rocksss... Way to go, Portal... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: azrealhk
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 17, 2007 6:15 pm PT
Review:  After reading many reviews, I got my hopes up for this game. So it I was pleasantly amazed that 
 this game did not disappoint me (most hyped games tend to be not what they are said to be) .
  
  When the worse you can say about a game is that it is too short, you know it is good.
  
 
  So how many games allow you to play a lab rat , running through a maze of puzzles. How often does 
 a lab rat, get a chance to escape and kill the experimenter. Then there is the amazing characters 
 (character) , not you player but the computer putting you through the ropes. Not many games create 
 memorable characters, but Portal does it with style and with great humor.
  
  This is not a game you can use numbers to rate.
  Graphics are not amazing, controls are simple, 
 gameplay well its a puzzler, story hardly any. Overall experience - fantastic.
  
  Just for the end credits song Still alive I will recommend this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jc924
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 13, 2007 11:50 am PT
Review:  Make no mistake, Crysis is my game of the year, but Portal is in a strong second, and for only 
 $20 (or $0 if you bought it with the Orange Box for other reasons) . This game design displays pure 
 genius. It takes a simple concept, a teleportation portal, and turns it in to one of the most challenging, 
 enjoyable, and downright funny games I have ever played.
  
  This is an example of outstanding creativity. What would games be like if all teams could deliver 
 end results at this level of achievement? I shudder to think, but this design team has laid down 
 the gauntlet - let others dare to pick it up and maybe we'll see some more really amazing stuff.
 
  
  I hope so. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadow9669
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 11, 2007 10:01 am PT
Review:  Yes Portal it is just an amazing game the idea of having a portal gun that you can make portal 
 just amazes me this game should be a must buy for all PC player and 360 player you will have endless 
 fun figuring out the puzzles or just goofing off like the endless fall if you don't have the orange 
 box or black box you must get it not for just the other games in the box but for portal a game 
 that everyone will love. :)
  
  now it not me buying the game again your the one with the money its up to you to figure out if 
 the orange box is for you because portals waiting for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: traviswitmer
Rating: 10
Date: May 28, 2008 6:53 pm PT
Review:  When was the last time you can remember setting down, forgetting everything, and just having plain, 
 honest fun? Well I couldn't tell you before I started playing Portal. At first, I have to admit, 
 that I didn't think I was going to play through the game because I assumed it would be a lot things, 
 that I wouldn't like, that it wasn't. Read on.
  I believe that game explains itself. Your objective is the same on every board, to get to the other 
 side by using your portal gun, which, of course, lets you, shoot two portals. This alone should 
 get you excited to play it. So, original it's almost unoriginal (what?) .
  It's hard to talk about Portal without giving away anything that will makes the game special. All 
 I'm going to tell you is this; the game is so much more than you think it is: DON'T WRITE THIS 
 GAME OFF!
  If you are not any good or just don't like puzzle games than this isn't for you but then again 
 it comes with three other games so you really don't have a choice if you but it or not. It's too 
 bad it can't be bought on its own or downloaded from Steam for fifteen dollars or so but it does 
 come with HL2 etc so their all stand up games.
  This game has it all. It challenges you but not to the point of physically accosting something 
 around you, you see, I'm one of those people and happy to tell you nothing was broken during the 
 playing of this game. Its dark humor was incredibly well done, one of the funniest games, 
 or any form of media, that I have played and found myself with a smile on my face the entire game. 
 There's something for everyone!
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hat_Damage
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 9, 2007 4:39 pm PT
Review:  Portal is the highly acclaimed puzzle shooter made by Valve. It came in the Orange box, and it 
 is also available as a single game download on Steam's website, just in case u didnt want the best 
 deal in gaming. Portal has so much charm and so much originality and greatness that it is really 
 hard to hate, however, the game isnt perfect.
  
  In portal you play as a test subject in the Aperture Science Laboratories. At the start of the 
 game you wake up in the mysterious Aperture science labs and you immediately are placed in a series 
 of 19 tests involving portals and the portal gun. The portal gun is a gun where you shoot into 
 a wall one gateway and then shoot another gateway into another wall, creating a portal. Lets break 
 it down for those of you who are confused. You shoot a blue bullet into a surface, that creates 
 a blue gateway, lets call this gateway "door 1". Then you shoot a orange bullet into a surface 
 to create a orange gateway, called "door 2". Now you can enter "Door 1", and come out of "Door 
 2", or you can enter "Door 2" and come out of "Door 1". Get it? 
  
  Now in each level in Portal, you need to get to the end of the level using you magic portal gun. 
 But you dont only use your portals, sometimes you use cubes to help you hold down switches and 
 sometimes you use you portals to build up momentum to shoot yourself up to ledges you cant normally 
 reach. Other times you need to disarm robotic turrets by knocking them over or deliver an energy 
 ball to its home. It is simple, but fun, really fun but it is way to easy, I only really had to 
 focus and think a lot about two or three levels, it would be nicer if the game was harder. Regardless 
 this game just reeks of originality and innovation. The whole system warped around the portal gun 
 is just too good for words.
  
  Portal is very simple looking, every room has the basic white, gray and black design. So when it 
 comes to the graphics of this game there isnt much to say. Many people would talk down about the 
 simple rooms but it really adds to the feel of the game. You see pretty much one character throughout 
 the entire game, and that is yourself. Yea the one character model looks like its from the last 
 generation of games but who cares about one character model? The art in portal is great too, the 
 simple stick figure drawings that you can see at times are just great.
  
  Portal sounds great. From the amazing sound effects to the voice acting to the song at the end. 
 The lack of music in the game adds to the feel of the game, and it also wouldnt make sense to have 
 music while there is someone talking, which leads to me to say that Portal is hilarious. Your instructor 
 will talk to you throughout the length of the game and pretty much every thing she says will make 
 you laugh, this game has some of the best dark and black humor I have seen in a game and is one 
 of the funniest games I have ever played. 
  
  Portal is very short, another thing that sucks about this game. It can be completed in two or three 
 hours. While it is good that this game isnt too long, there are only 19 levels, and I think that 
 it could of been longer, maybe 30 levels tops would of been nice or maybe they could included a 
 level editor. But you will come back to Portal, no doubt, it has a high replay value, you will 
 at least play through this game one more time this year. Portal seems like a rip off at $20 a pop, 
 however, if you were even somewhat intelligent, you would get this game through the orange box, 
 where the game is roughly $10 (5 games in the orange box, $50/5 games= $10 a game) .
  
  Portal is amazing, and is simply one of the best games I have played all year, but you may be wondering 
 why I only gave it an 8.0/10? Well the game is way to short and way to easy. If this game was a 
 little harder and a little longer is would be amazing, not to say that it isnt already. Regardless 
 of the score I have given it and the two flaws it has, go an buy Portal (Or I should say the orange 
 box) , support original gaming, play one of the most innovative and quirky games of the year (Something 
 this gen is seriously lacking) , and play one of the best games of the year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kdk-theone
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 8, 2007 7:40 am PT
Review:  - WARNING MIGHT CONTAIN SPOILERS 
  - Rating explained:
  - 1/10 -I can't believe how bad this is!
  - 2/10 - Crap!
  - 3/10  Not worth it!
  - 4/10 
  Below the standards!
  - 5/10  Average!
  - 6/10 Above the standards!
  - 7/10  Definitely Worth it!
  - 8/10  Very good!
  - 9/10  Great!
  - 10/10  I can't believe 
 how brilliant this is!
  
  Story:
  5/10
  When you first play portal, you wake up in a cell, with a bit of 'been here done that' taste in 
 your mouth, however, that quickly changes when a portal appears right in front of you and you see 
 yourself sideways from the view of another portal. (hope you understand this, its very hard to 
 explain) , jump through the portal and already here the bad taste is replaced with a new 'Okay, 
 lets see what you got ' taste
  Portal doesn't have any intro/background story and little story at all, but what it 'lacks' in 
 story it pays back in gameplayAfter awakening and walking through the portal, you simply begin 
 to solve the puzzles/test areas that are presented to you, and afterwards advances to next test 
 chamberUntil things takes an (unexpected?) plot twist and youre suddenly in risk of actually dying
 
  
  Characters:
  5/10
  WellTo tell you the truth, theres not much to go for hereTheres only two characters in the game, 
 one is the player, the other is a computer voiceThe players 'model' looks just like a prisoner 
 or test subject, which matches the prison looking areas very well
  I don't have much to say about the characters, since theres not that many, but I have to comment 
 the voice act of GlaDOS (the computer voice) , cant remember her name, but she does an outstanding 
 performance
  
  Gameplay:
  8/10
  Outstanding  I had fun from the first second I walked through my very first portal, and pop'ed 
 out another place, its hilarious, and it gets even better  when you get control of both portal 
 'openings', that's where the fun truly begins, jump through here, fly out like a rocket over there
 
  The gameplay is very settle and calm throughout most of the game, later on though it gets a bit 
 more action packed, but never like Prey, HL2 or Serious Sam - it keeps its cool and stays tactical
 
  You start in one end of a room, and basically have to find your way to the other end by completing 
 the puzzles in front of you  complete with buttons, boxes, energy bolts, lifts and whatever!
 
  
  Difficulty:
  Way Too Easy
  The puzzles in Portal are fun, but mostly way too easy, theres been one or two maps where I have 
 been like 'What the h!', but after a couple of minutes im back on track and quickly completes 
 the map
  Luckily, when you complete the game, you unlock some bonus mapsbut only 9 ( - haven't played 
 those yet so I cant say anything about them)
  
  Features:
  8/10
  Valve truly found a great way to make a 'portal creation home package' thing here, though the idea 
 of portal use (that resembles this one) can be traced way back in time, or at least to Prey, where 
 there were portals also, however in Prey only the enemies could create portals, and the player 
 would have to wait for one to be created to use them
  Anyway  besides the portal feature, not many new or exciting features is to find here 
  
 
  Graphics:
  6/10
  Nothing new or interesting here, (at least not if you have played Half-Life 2: Episode 2) , you 
 got all the antialising and stuff, but theres not much use for itI think 
  The only interesting thing is motion blur, which I also loved in HL2: Ep2
  The graphics are not 
 extremely detailed nor over whelming, but they match the environments and game style perfectly 
 - the steel cold walls, the hard tiled floors, and glass windows that gives you the creeping sensation 
 of being watchedIts great!, ( and as you progress, you'll get behind the scenes and see a bit of 
 what keeps the place running)
  
  Love:
  Chasing yourself through portal after portal
  The computer voice wicked remarks
  Hate:
  Its way too easy
  The fact it ends 
  
  Final 
 Word:
  Overall: 8/10
  When playing Portal, one should keep in mind that it is (most of all) a show case for the portal 
 technology,
  like the HL2: Lost Coast were a showcase for the features in Half-Life 2 However, despite that 
 and the fact its way too easy and can be complete within a couple of hours (I took 5-6 hours, but 
 im pretty slow) , Portal is still a great and extremely entertaining game, and its an all 'brain 
 game', without crazy enemies  except for some gun torrents, - trying to kill you wherever you 
 go, and that gives you time to truly test the portal feature
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: battlecruiser93
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 6, 2007 11:50 am PT
Review:  Desktop icon........... double click......... I'm in........
  
  Well........ the game is just great. Graphics are based an Steam engine which is already known for 
 its quality. The game is fluid....... there are many interesting elements which keeps you glued 
 to the screen. Trust me...
  But the most innovative thing in this game is absolutely controlling the portals. To solve a puzzle 
 given to you....... you must change your view or reality by placing two different types of portals 
 on specific places.. They enable you to come from one place to another in second.. Isn't that great 
 ?
  Jumping from one place to another, from the ceiling to the floor... falling through unlimited portals... being 
 in air for 2 min........
  
  There are many positive things about the game but one major bad thing is absolutely its shortness. 
 As soon you sit in front of your favorite computer with new "equipment" and GTX 8800 graphics card 
 (no you don't need such monster =) computer to play it ) you will ask for more....
  
  Yeah its that short. I don't know how many levels are there but you can be sure that the lack of 
 the levels wont make you so nervous.........
  Why ? Well the game has one of the best endings ever....... At least that's my opinion. I wont spoil 
 it......... so be a good boy/girl and buy the game.........
  Yeah right now......... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lettuceman44
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 1, 2007 4:22 pm PT
Review:  This game is the best puzzle game ever. You are a test subject to a lab and you go through some 
 tests. You get a portal gun which is extremely fun and interesting to use. You can make a portal 
 one place, and one in another place, then go in one and come out the other. You can do many interesting 
 stuff with the portals, it is great fun. One of the best parts of Portal is its humor. The computerized 
 voice that leads you has many great awesome one liners. The game is extremely funny, and it has 
 absolutely one of the best end credits song ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thejackal465
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 10, 2007 12:11 pm PT
Review:  I should say right off the bat that I am not a PC gamer. I am not a fan of the mouse and keyboard 
 game setup. I don't like the wasd movement preference, I like things that make sense -- push the 
 joystick up, pull trigger to fire. 
  
  That said I was initially turned-off of Portal simply because I had to play it on my laptop. The 
 only game besides Frogger that I ever forced myself to play on a computer was Duke Nukem and thats 
 because Duke Nukem kicks major ass (and chews major bubblegum, even though he's out of bubblegum... but 
 thats a different story) . The plot-twist here, however, is that Portal was excellent. So excellent, 
 mind you, that I am becoming a fan of the whole PC thing.
  
  Portal is a superb idea -- shoot one portal on place -- one another -- and you will warp between them. 
 This is not just used to move from point A to point B, however. Jumping through portals transfers 
 momentum, spo falling from 100 feet into a portal sends players flying out the other end. This 
 (realistic) game physic allows for some absolutely unique gameplay twists and turns -- and players 
 must take advantage of this in order to solve each room of the game. 
  
  The plot is simple -- you are a test subject trying o reach the end of 19 trials using portals in 
 Aperture Science's research labs. You are led by quirky, comical supercomputer GlaDOS , who is 
 always quick to comment on your actions and choices. In level 19, after a statrtling turn of events, 
 the game makes a twist that M. Night Shyamalan would be proud to call his own and the player finds 
 themself treking through the creepy underbelly of the "Aperture Science" labs. GlaDOS becomes increasingly 
 more desperate -- increasingly more violent -- as players journey deeper and deeper into the facility 
 trying to escape.
  
  The dialogue that GlaDOS says is well thought out, juicy, and very funny. At some points, it even 
 hints towards the world of HalfLife outside of the labs.
  
  The game is easy. It is linear, but that is not a problem as I saw it in terms ofa title in which 
 every room is a puzzle and you had to conquer each room to continue.
  
  Okay, now I am going to flat out say it: The game is way too short. Gamers new to PC gaming could 
 beat the entire main game in 2 hours or less. Gamers adept at puzzles and mouse-and-keyboard combinations 
 can do it in even less. Granted, there are other game options -- time trial mode, director's commentary 
 mode, and "see how few portals you can use to complete the level" mode. There are plenty of replay 
 modes, but there is no substitute for a good main game.
  
  Granted, it was more of a demo than a game. That being said I did grade this game rather leniently. 
 In reality the developers weren't planning on it being any more than just a "minigame". This is 
 unfortunate -- and one reason I gave this game a grade other than a 5. The second half -- where players 
 journey deep into the test facility underworld -- should have been fleshed-out more. 
  
  In addition to all this, the game experiences major lag at several portions. I normally would not 
 have a problem with this, but at one point, because of an awkward positioning of two portals, the 
 game crashed and my computer got the blue screen of death.
  
  
  HeadshotJackal's Rating:
  I gave this game 7/10. It is a great game that you can finish in an 
 hour. Even for a small game, that is unacceptable. Anyone who disagrees can kindly go to hell. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shiben
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 28, 2007 3:34 am PT
Review:  Portal is a game packed up in the Orange Box along with Half Life 2 Episode 2. After 3, 4 years 
 of the same boring shooting enemies, Portal is a refreshing change. At first it seems confusing 
 if it is an FPS? Well, it plays like an FPS, but originally its a puzzle game. Let me tell you, 
 this game is something NEW you would really like to try out.
  
  Portal features a first person view with a unconventional gun which can shoot portals on the walls/floors/ceilings. 
 You can shoot 2 portals for entering into one and coming out of the other. Also any other objects 
 can go through these portals we well. Given this simple setting the game throws a number of levels 
 to you one by one which you have to clear.
  
  As the game progresses Portal grows as well. There are clever puzzles of using gravity to gain 
 momentum and use it in a different direction to pass a barrier.
  
  Graphically the portals are worked upon really well. These portals are not just animated textures 
 but you can actually see what is past that portal. There will be tons of moments when you will 
 be able to see yourself.
  
  Along with a fantastic novel game, this has a little dark and sarcastic comedy as well. The game 
 is set in a research lab in which you are a subject, experimented upon, how well you use the portal 
 gun, and thus you have to cross number of levels. A computerized voice will be monitoring you all 
 the while giving away sarcastic comments frequently. Damn even the turrets are funny. And just 
 when the game got over, a wonderful song comes while the credits roll simply making you fall in 
 love with the game.
  
  Honestly speaking in such a puzzle game a story is really not necessary but it does contain one, 
 and let me tell you it isn't there for just for it to be there. It has its own twists, mystery, 
 revelations etc. If you are a Half Life fan, (of course you are, aren't you?) you will be glad 
 to see it is connected to the Half Life universe as well, and probably more will be revealed in 
 HL2ep3.
  
  Portal is a must game to play as it is a real refreshment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pangster007
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 27, 2007 6:54 am PT
Review:  SPOILER WARNING - Contains slight hints to story. Just skip to last paragraph for summary.
  
  I completed this game a while ago actually and have allowed myself time to settle a litle before 
 dissecting this little gem of a game.
  
  Portal comes in the Orange Box compilation alongside Half Life 2, Episode 1 and 2, Team Fortress 
 2, and in my case - Counter Strike 1.6. The idea for Portal actually came from students modding 
 the Source engine which powers the Half Life 2 game. When the big guys noticed this development, 
 they hired the people responsible, slapped a story to the idea and helped develop the ideas into 
 an actual game. And congratulations on a job well done, indeed.
  
  I played this at max settings, 1920 x 1200 resolution on my desktop PC and also on my laptop at 
 1280 x 800. The difference? Not too much actually. The environments are stylistically bland much 
 like a laboratory and there are very little special effects. So, this is not a game to show off 
 the power of your latest graphics card but rather to test your grey matter.
  
  Yes, it's first person, yes, it has shooting in it. But this is a puzzle game which involves moving 
 from A to B by any means necessary - and that is with the use of gravity, switches, your Portal 
 gun, platforms etc. This is actually a platformer.
  
  The very base concept is quite simple, there are 2 portals - you go into one, you come out the 
 other. However, in execution, it is simply quite ingenious. You gain this Portal gun allowing you 
 to place these portals wherever you want (with some exceptions) . So if you see this high ledge 
 that you can't reach just shoot a portal above the ledge and another somewhere close and within 
 reach - walk though the portal and you end up falling on top of the ledge.
  
  At first, you will get disorientated by how the camera angle swings about when you exit a portal. 
 If you happen to walk into a portal and the exit portal faces at a different angle, you are forced 
 to see yourself turned as you exit. It's not huge negative of the gameplay but something to get 
 used to or avoid when placing your portals.
  
  The sound is nothing too special like its visuals but it does it's job. You'll be spoken to by 
 a female voice from unknown origin, like a god, and it fittingly suits the feeling of being a lab 
 rat. The pacing of the game is excellent, something that is most probably inherited from the Half 
 Life 2 staff. When you think you've seen it all, out comes this peculiarity or a puzzle that may 
 have you stumped for the good part of 5 mins. Further progression sees you exploring 'behind the 
 stage' such as behind walls and the constant disbelieve of the female voice talking to you makes 
 you think that not is all what it seems.
  
  That is when the game, essentially thought to be just a puzzling game becomes a full game with 
 a story which was totally surprising to me. The game finishes at a very high note and rewards with 
 a very nice but lightly ambiguous ending.
  
  Nothing stunning in terms of visuals or audio, but in terms of pure gameplay and experience - this 
 short, sweet game is highly recommended. Those who are into first person shooters but would like 
 a break from pure action, this breath of fresh air is just the right game. The simple concept of 
 Portals is excellently executed which will give the brain a nice exercise. It's not too difficult 
 and is highly rewarding. The only shortcomings i can think of, is that with all puzzle games, you 
 may become fustrated if you can't get past a seemingly impossible level. It is also a very short 
 game, which is not all that bad considering that this game comes with the Orange Box compilation. 
 It also includes achievements and developer's commentary for those who want to see (or hear, really) 
 what went behind the games production. Highly recommended game for an evening. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lebbin
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 21, 2007 8:53 am PT
Review:  Note- I only played the X360 verisan of Portal. However, they are the same except for that the 
 PC controls are better. This is taken from my Orange Box review. 
  
  I came into Portal not knowing what to expect. I just knew that it was supposed to be good. After 
 beating it, I can safely say it's the most fun game I've played on my Xbox 360, along with Halo 
 3. So how can a 5-hour puzzle game be as good as Master Chief's third adventure? 
  
  I'm not really into puzzles, but the game is paced enough to ease you into the some-what complex 
 mind benders. You get a portal gun, which lets you shoot portals and walk through them. The developers 
 made very great levels, with some of the most original ideas I've ever seen in a game. It isn't 
 really hard, (I got through it without any help whatsoever) but the length of 4 to 5 hours is perfect. 
 The game is short enough not to get boring, and is long enough to make you feel like it is a whole 
 game. 
  
  What makes it even better though, is that it's the funniest game I've ever played. It made me laugh 
 out loud many times, and has the best ending and credits I've seen in my life. There isn't much 
 of a story, but the addictiveness and enjoyment I had from the game really makes it one of my favorite 
 games ever. I can go on for hours about how great it is, but I'm going to stop here and not give 
 anything away. Portal alone deserves a 9.0. If you are not into Half-Life, the Orange Box is worth 
 renting just for Portal. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DryvBy2
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 19, 2007 3:57 pm PT
Review:  +The ending. By far, one of the best endings in video game history.
  +Terrific puzzles
  -An overall short and easy experience.
  -Lack of any multiplayer (read below to understand) .
 
  
  There comes a time in everyone's life when they buy something because of sheer curiosity. Portal 
 is one of mine. I bought Orange Box for PC, however, I would have bought Portal if it were separate 
 from the bundle just because it looked so interesting. I also like games that make others dizzy.
 
  
  Portal is purely a puzzle game at heart. It's very simple in how you play, so a very great game 
 for casual gamers. You have one gun that shoots In and Out portals. You need to use the portals 
 to get around big areas that contain hazard points, such as chemicals, turrents, and fire. Not 
 in that order. Some of the puzzles require you to shoot the In portal at the ground, the Out portal 
 at a high spot on a wall. When you drop through the In portal, you'll pop out of the high spot 
 on the wall and drop, then you need to use those quick gamer reflexes and shoot another In portal 
 on the spot you're about to drop. Anyone familiar with 5th grade science knows what happens now. 
 You'll end up falling back out of the wall, and with that force, fly over a wall, if that's in 
 your way.
  
  The graphics are really unique. I say unique because they're a mixture of something generic (white 
 textures almost everywhere) but really high resolution in everything and awesome blur effects. 
 Plus, if you really think of what the game is producing, you'd understand how complex this game 
 is. It's creating mirrors of everything multiple times, but doing is so that it's running smooth. 
 That alone is worthy of some praise. Graphics are important in any game, but one of the best things 
 in the game is the dialog. Throughout the game, you'll be congratulated by a robotic woman's voice. 
 She'll guide you throughout the game, giving helpful hints on what to do next. But when the plot 
 twist (the original plot is just to do some puzzles) , the dialog is just hilarious. I love comical 
 games. It adds more oomph to the game.
  
  The game is an overall incredible experience. As far as length, I'd have to say it's on the incredible 
 short side, but let's not fear, PC users. We get free map packs! There's already an incredible 
 number of maps out there for the game, giving the game a lot more replay than those on a console. 
 I usually complain heavily on short games, but given that this is bundled in with Orange Box, it's 
 not that bad of a deal. Even if you were to buy it outright, the price of $19.99 on Steam isn't 
 too shabby. Picture it as a great 2 hour interactive movie. Plus, you can do more with the extra 
 maps provided by the talented community.
  
  Now, the one thing I think would have worked well in this game is a sort of multiplayer. Before 
 Portal came out, another Steam game known to Half-Life lovers as Garry's Mod has it's own mod of 
 the portal gun. It wasn't near as good as the gun in the real game, but it was still awesome. I 
 think the game could have easily done a multiplayer for maybe a co-op single player aside from 
 the main story. Without the multiplayer though, the game is still incredible. I'd say that this 
 was one of those pleasant surprises from Valve and I hope to see more from this series later. It's 
 hard to justify a 9.0, but it's an overall casual puzzle game with some twist. There's nothing 
 wrong with it aside from being short so I'm going to have to say for what it is, it's one of the 
 best. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zionwingcroff
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 19, 2007 11:10 am PT
Review:  Portal is a unique game. It is an FPS of sorts, but without the shooting bullets. It could be classifyed 
 as a puzzle game, but requires good refexes as well. It is in a class of its own that we rarly 
 see, but when we do it's a wonderful sight.
  
  The premise of the game is that you are a test subject in an experiment being run by Apeture Science. 
 You are put in room and are required to reach the exit door. All you are armed with is your wits 
 and a gun. Twist is this gun doesn't shoot bullets. It shoots portals. You use these portals to 
 get around, over and through obtacles and to solve the puzzles throughout the game. The obstacles 
 range from the cliche button and box routine, to guiding a ball of energy to a socket using portals. 
 The only live fire enemys are the turrets. The turrets fire at you if they see you, but if you 
 knock them over they fire a few warning shots and deactivate. Most of the puzzles/obstacles require 
 Quick reflexes and timing rather than straight up logic. Don't take that the wrong way though. 
 The game still involves a lot of logical thinking, but it's not slow about it.
  
  On to the mechanics and such.
  Graphicly the game is not as great as some of the other recent 
 games, but it does a decent enough job on the things that you pay attention to as not to look bad. 
 It's largly a sharp, clean, steralized feel to the game, so it doesn't need a lot of graphic power. 
 The ability to see through the portals is a big feature, as it give that distorted which-way-is-up 
 feeling.
  
  The physics engine is where the money is. The game revolves heavily around the fact that portals 
 don't affect momentum. Gravity plays a big role in giving the feel of the game with the portals 
 as the gravity causes shifts in direction through a portal. It enables most of the puzzles to even 
 exist. The Havok engine is the core of the whole game.
  
  One of the major drawbacks to this game, however, is it's short duraration. The game can be completed 
 in 5 hours easy. Even people who aren't good at puzzles could do it in that time. It's helped by 
 the fact that 6 of the levels have advanced modes and 3 challange modes, but it still ends up coming 
 rather short.
  
  Overall the game is a something new and origanal in a world of repeats, remakes and spinoffs and 
 will give you a great time while it lasts. One thing to note: Don't play if you get motion sick 
 easily.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: redhawk360
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 19, 2007 10:29 am PT
Review:  Portal is a very rewarding game to play, This game is pure genius on a disc; I have never seen 
 anything like this. But always wished for something like this. Portal throws in puzzle solving, 
 with humor, cool robot voices and nice music. I knew when I first watched the first trailer for 
 it (you know the one) , I had to try it out.
  
  Game Play: 
  The point of Portal is to try to get from A to Z using the Aperture Science Handheld Portal Device 
 aka Portal gun. You are a test a subject called Chell and you are trying out this new invention 
 from Aperture Science (Black Mesa's rival company) in hopes of completing all the puzzles and being 
 rewarded a cake! Yup, you get a cake for your troubles. Or do you? The robot voice, named GLaDOS 
 (Genetic Lifeform and Disk Operating System) that is watching your every move will make you laugh 
 through the whole game, "remember the time we made you think you were going to die... good times". 
 And it's a short one at that. There are only 19 stages to complete, including the final chapter 
 if you can survive. This new genius puzzle like game play is fun because it's something new. It's 
 not hard to understand at all. Some of the stages get a bit tricky but with allot of logic and 
 exploration skills you will figure them all out in no time (do not be tempted to use a guide for 
 this game you will end up feeling like you didnt get the full experience) . But overall, it's really 
 fun and challenging at times.
  
  Graphics: 
  The visuals are pretty the portal effect could have been better. It's pretty much basic stuff. 
 You are in a building the whole time (apart form right at the end) so there really isn't much to 
 show. Although what it does have is pretty much the same as what HL2 has to offer. You wont need 
 any fancy graphics to run this on full specs. some of the secret areas in the game reveal more 
 stuff about black mesa, aperature science and cake.
  
  Sound: 
  As I said, the robot voiceover you hear is very funny. It will make you laugh with all the things 
 it says about you and the way it try's to trick you and put you down, especially in the final battle. 
 And the only song in it, the ending theme "Still Alive". It's a very catchy tune.
  
  Playability: 
  The controls are the same as they are for pretty much any FPPG (first person portal 
 game) , it uses W, A, S, D format movement and Mouse 1 Mouse 2 shooting. It's not hard to get used 
 to even if you are new to the FPS. Nothing wrong with the controls at all.
  
  Conclusion:
  Portal is really something great, as i said before it was the little game that could. 
 I hope they plan on making sequels to this because it practically says as much at the end. I can't 
 really say anything bad about this game. I just only wish it was a bit longer. A must buy for anyone 
 of any genre preference anyone can really enjoy it it only has the most basic of controls and doesnt 
 require a huge gaming rig to run.
  
  The Redhawk Rating System:
  It should be the law to own this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yiyo-chan
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 19, 2007 10:19 am PT
Review:  This game we have to control Chell, our female test- subject character. Guided by the AI computer 
 GLaDOS, our goal is to get trough different test areas, using the Aperture Science Handheld Portal 
 Device ( Portal Gun for the friends ) created by Aperture Science Inc.... With the only incentive 
 of being rewarded with CAKE.. Yes, cake.. :D
  
  For those who expected to shoot everything, and kill people and mutants.. This is not the game... 
 This is a puzzle-solving title, where you'll have to use the Portal Gun and your brain in order 
 to get the proper order and placing of portals you should apply. 
  
  The gameplay/controls are the same as Half Life 2, of course.. because it is a mode of it.. The 
 only character you'll see in the whole game is you; there'll be GLaDOS voice and the famous and 
 lovable Weighted Companion Cube. Anything else in the game will consist only in platforms, energy 
 balls, and little attack droids. ( adorable droids, may I add )
  
  Based in the Half Life universe, the plot is good; you'll have humorous moments... The ending is 
 one of the most innovative ones I've ever seen.. I could spend hours just listening to the ending 
 theme..
  
  Following the line of almost everyone who played this game I'll have to say that I ALSO will say 
 that it's TOO short. It's easy once you get used to the movements, and the shifts you'll experience 
 while traveling from portal to portal.. And right when the difficulty gets to be considerable.. 
 the game finishes.. I found it very easy to handle, and to learn how to use. Unfortunately, it 
 didn't represent a challenge.
  
  Simple, calmed OST can be listened through almost all the game, which is fine; because this game 
 happens inside a research facility, so probably heavy metal is not going to be a good choice for 
 the development of a game in a semi-sterile environment..
  
  This game grows in you; you'll get to like GLaDOS and her annoying comments.. But if your looking 
 for a long game.. This is not the title. BUT, once you finish it, you'll get some unlockeable features... 
 where the test areas 'll be the same as before, but with some speed requirements, and such.
  
  This title is quite original... It didn't ring my bell reminding me of some other one while 
 I was playing ( except HL for obvious reasons ) .. So I think I could recommend it without hesitating..
 
  
  I'm giving it an 8.5! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: noambartouv
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 17, 2007 4:44 pm PT
Review:  Well i had no idea what portal was and it sucked me into it for the 3 hours it lasted.
  Well yeah im saying its short. And really short!
  But thats not necessarily bad because the orange 
 box comes with 2 other games which is what makes it so good.
  Portal was really fun until the 19th stage (final chapter) . I have to say that it was the only stage 
 i didnt like! and i got stuck about 5 times for like 5-10 min trying to think what to do (and it 
 turned out to be really small things i just didnt see) . It was just annoying with the whole reverse 
 psychologie that the weird computer voice was throwing at me! (im not using reverse psycoligie! 
 that would be stupid... or w/e it said) .
  But overall it was a really nice game to bad there werent more lvls and stuff... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: miklifton
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 16, 2007 11:14 pm PT
Review:  Portal is something new, and we all love new! This game is genius; I have never seen anything like 
 this. This game throws in puzzle solving, with humor and nice music. I knew when I first heard 
 of this game, I had to try it out. 
  
  Game Play: The point of Portal is to try to get from point A to point B using the Portal gun. You 
 are a test subject and you are trying out this new invention in hopes of completing all the puzzles 
 and being rewarded a cake! Yup, you get a cake for your troubles. Or do you? The robot voice that 
 is watching your every move will make you laugh through the whole game. And it's a short one at 
 that. There are only 19 stages to complete, including the final chapter if you can survive. This 
 new genius puzzle like game play is fun because it's something new. It's not hard to get at all. 
 And some of the stages get a bit tricky so it could take you a bit of time to figure it out. But 
 overall, it's really fun and challenging at times. 
  
  Sound: As I said, the robot voiceover you hear is very funny. It will make you laugh with all the 
 things it says about you and the way it try's to trick you and put you down. And the music is just 
 awesome, well, I am only referring to the ending theme "Still Alive". It's a very catchy tune.
 
  
  Graphics: The visuals are pretty nice. It's not anything revolutionary. It's pretty much basic 
 stuff. You are in a building the whole time so there really isn't much to show. Although what it 
 does have is pretty much the same as what HL2 has to offer. 
  
  Playability: The controls are the same as they are for pretty much any FPS. It's not hard to get 
 used to even if you are new to the FPS. Nothing wrong with the controls here. 
  
  Overall: Portal is really something great. I do hope they plan on making sequels to this because 
 I feel it can be great. I can't really say anything bad about this game. I just only wish it was 
 longer, but it was so much fun to play and so interesting that I wanted to finish it as fast as 
 I could to see how it ended. So really, this game was perfect to me. I recommend it to anyone. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rat5112
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 16, 2007 2:41 pm PT
Review:  The premise of Portal is this. You are test subject being put through a series of puzzles in order 
 to test out a new piece of technology, the portal gun. Step into one of the portals the gun creates 
 and you instantly step out of the other. As you go along you'll begin to realize something is wrong 
 with the place your being tested in but I don't want to spoil anything. The game's portal mechanic 
 creates some truly mind bending puzzles that require you to think three dimensionally from the 
 first person perspective. This opens up some pretty cool scenarios such as opening a portal beneath 
 a turret robot in order to drop it from another one that you opened up in the ceiling in order 
 to take the robot offline. You can also make some pretty freaky visuals such as setting up portals 
 so you end up looking yourself in the face or lining up a portal in the ceiling with one on the 
 floor so you can essentially fall forever it you wanted. I only wish the game were a bit longer 
 but otherwise this is the perfect game for any of you puzzle addicts out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: badATchaos
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 14, 2007 6:35 am PT
Review:  Well, my first thoughts on this game when I first saw the trailer a while back was: "WOW! Holy 
 sh*t that's sweet!" And boy this game does deliver on what that trailer showed off. The game play 
 is something I've never seen before.
  
  In this first person puzzler you play as this mysterious woman character who as somehow been placed 
 in this laboratory where a super computer rules and forces you through a set of test chambers, 
 as if you are a lab rat, using a handheld portal device to complete each task.
  
  Some tasks include getting to high places, opening up doors by first finding a weighted cube to 
 place on a switch. Oh and my favorite level; the companion cube level where you must lug around 
 weighted cube for the duration whole chamber.
  
  Over all the game with pretty fun and intuitive with a set of interesting as well as entertaining 
 test chambers as mentioned. Every now and again the slightly deranged supercomputer that runs the 
 entire facility will offer a small laugh with its otherwise dark sense of humor.
  
  On another note: Portal is compatible with Source SDK now so pretty soon people on the internet 
 will be pumping out modded maps for you to play on. (Which they are already.) However you kind 
 of have to know how the Steam folders, directories and console commands work in order to install 
 the maps into your game correctly. Which can be a b*tch if your now into the whole modding scene 
 like myself. Otherwise there isn't much of a problem here.
  
  On the flip side of things Portal is almost disgustedly short of a game. I think it would take 
 most players around 6 to 8 hours to finish the game. Don't get me wrong Portal is a top of the 
 line game but it almost doesn't make up for its shortness. If you bought the game separately off 
 Steam you my friend have been ripped off. But by all mean, if you got it through the Orange Box 
 pack (which well, is the majority) then that's all good. The game is definitely worth playing sometime 
 but not for $20 if you had bought it along.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: logoleptic
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 12, 2007 8:41 pm PT
Review:  I'm going to skip the usual comments about this game that everyone else is making, and cover two 
 things that I think should be said but aren't so far.
  
  First, this game is *not* too short, it's just right. Any longer, and the story would be stretched 
 thin. The fact that it leaves the player wanting more is just a symptom of how awesome it is.
 
  
  Second, I wand to see more of GLaDOS and Chell. These two characters, especially GLaDOS, are really 
 interesting new additions to the Half-Life fictional universe. I'm itching to know more about who 
 Chell is and where she came from, and to understand the agenda and motives that make GLaDOS do 
 what she does. More! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Anthony9000
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 12, 2007 4:20 pm PT
Review:  While its still a short and sometimes brain dazzling game,....... it serves up an innovative expierence 
 and game that shows off wat an FPS game can do without zombies, a great story line, other characters, 
 guns, and an open world. Now before i show u my PROS AND CONS review of PORTAL...... i just want 
 to let u noe that the real rating (without gamespot rating system change) is 7.1.... not a big difference 
 but it counts.
  
  
  GAMEPLAY
  The Gameplay in portal is rather interesting compared to other FPS games in the orange box or even 
 on the market since the genre was born...... it may not be ground-breaking but its unique and thats 
 all that counts if u just finished playing HL2 with all its episodes or just played another FPS 
 game that is full of guns, blood, gore, fast paced etc.
  
  PROS
  -The whole portal idea is amazing and truly delivers upon the hype
  -Can be played completley 
 at ur own pace
  -The game seems bugless
  -Dev. Commentary also included like in other games included in the orange box
  -Alot of hidden 
 things are found throughout the game or tricks that enhance or effect gameplay in a certain matter. 
 Most of them are so small that u may not even notice them though.
  -Bonus maps included along with the option to upload more
  -U can create ur own maps
  -Great 
 feel to the enviroment
  -The robot person that guides u through the game has an awesome voice (robotic anyways)
  -INNOVATIVE
 
  
  CONS
  -Some points of the game may make u wanna break ur comp. since they are so annoying or just are 
 hard to do
  -SHORT
  -The world seems rather bland and doesnt have that many objects to poke around with
  -No story 
 really
  -Could have been integrated into the world of HL much better since it doesnt have any connection 
 to it except (SLIGHT SPOILERS) until the ending
  -The overall gameplay is fine but nothing special since it may get repetitive to some ppl
  
 
  
  GRAPHICS
  The graphics in Portal arent bad although they arent anything special either so dont have ur hopes 
 up for this game to have any other colour than white on the floors and walls (well maybe black 
 too if ur lucky)
  
  PROS
  -Matches quite well and seems to ''click-in''
  -Portals have cool looks to them
  -The cons i listed may not even matter to some ppl and may 
 not even effect others
  
  CONS
  -BLAND 
  -Main cloour of the game is WHITE with no doubt
  -A few minor graphical errors in the game
 
  -Not enough variety in objects and the game leans toward smaller spaces then larger ones
  -REused textures/objects throughout the whole game
  -The whole game takes place INDOORS
  
 
  REPLAY-VALUE
  The replay-value in portal is somewhere from O. K. to BAD but ther are still reasons to play the 
 game over again.
  
  PROS
  -Achievements
  -Bonus maps and the fact that u can upload and create ur own maps also
  -Dev. Commentary
  -Gameplay 
 is solid
  
  CONS
  -NO multiplayer whatsoever
  -Not even online co-op or slit screen co-op to make things more interesting
  -Modding is quite 
 small for this game compared to the other games in the orange box
  -Even if u replay the game again.... u noe all the tricks and answers so its useless in a way
 
  -The game is short even if u play it again
  
  
  So ther was my PROS AND CONS review of PORTAL... one of the most innovative FPS's of all time (to 
 me) but didnt deliver upon expectancy. Especially if u bought the game alone, not with the orange 
 box. Never pass on this game though and if a demo or preview of some sort comes out, dont fail 
 to not not play/watch it. Portal's a great game but never spend more than 20 bucks on this game 
 alone since it has a play time of around 12 hours WITH EVERYTHING done in it including achiements 
 and the dev. commentary. If u do get portal, have a great time playing it! =) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nyx220
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 12, 2007 1:59 pm PT
Review:  I played it for a good 10 hours straight today. Completed it within this time and began messing 
 around with the more difficult levels. This game completely blew my mind away. The uniqueness the 
 game has, how well it flows is mind boggling and i love it, wouldnt change a thing.
  
  The main gameplay doesnt have alot of story to it, but the computer guiding you though the levels 
 more than makes up for it adds intreguement into the mix to get you to want to see what happens 
 next.
  
  Its a short game but it really doesnt matter. If the game was any longer it would become drawn 
 out and boring.
  
  Couple of warnings before i conclude it will defiantly consume a fair amount of time, it will become 
 adictive and it most certainly will leave you with the oddest craving for cake.
  
  In all the game is exciting, engagine and hillarious. I absolutly loved it definatly deserves my 
 10 out of 10. I really cant wait to see how its either integrated into a bigger game or for the 
 sequel to come out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darthbanker
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 10, 2007 8:47 pm PT
Review:  I finally loaded this up on my Vista x64 install two days ago, and got my first chance to sit down 
 with it last night. I had some initial problems getting the game to work on Vista, with the "hl2. exe" 
 error kept flashing. After searching a couple of forums, I found a fix and disable UAC in Vista, 
 and it started working with no problems.
  
  My initial impressions of the game are extremely positive. This game makes you think outside the 
 box, you have to solve many levels of rooms that are like puzzles. They require that you use your 
 "portal" gun to create paths to solve these rooms. Each level increases the difficulty on how much 
 you have to think to complete the puzzle.
  
  I would say this is in the top ten games I have ever played. Completed in just under 6 hours, it 
 is a short game. But, I hope that Valve will decide to make this title it's own franchise, and 
 allow it to sell in it's own box and make it episodic like the Half Life series.
  
  Oh and one last thing.. The cake is a lie. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: r4v3gl0ry
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 2, 2007 8:32 am PT
Review:  It's evident that Portal is a puzzle-solving game, and as expected, it should be lengthy and challenging. 
 Given today's video game standards, most first-person shooters, or just shooters, take up to 5 
 hours (at the least) to play through. But, does it really satisfy you in the end? Does it have 
 a story long enough to keep you interested? And really, how long is the game?
  
  Simply put, it takes maybe 6 hours, although... you'll be more satisfied with what you've seen at 
 the end, rather than what you've seen at the beginning. 
  
  So, in Portal, you are a test subject at Aperture Science, and your guide is GlaDOS, a  
 , who gives you the portal device. In Portal, you must get through each level by getting to the 
 exit of each level. But how?
  
  The highlight of the game is the portal device, or, the portal gun. You shoot a blue portal, and 
 it's the "entrance." You shoot the orange portal somewhere else, you'll be able to move through 
 the "entrance" and through the "exit" (the orange portal) . You've probably noticed that you can 
 do an infinite number of things while thinking with portals, such as going through and infinite 
 loop, or using gravity to get to greater heights. During the course of the events in this game, 
 you will have to place companion cubes onto buttons to open doors, use portals to get those dark 
 energy balls into the huge power "outlets" (I call 'em that, but you'll see what I mean) , and of 
 course, you WILL use your wits.
  
  In the first few levels, you will only have the blue portal. After the tenth level, you will be 
 upgraded with the orange portal, and you will be able to make those good ol' game play videos. 
 Now, all of this presents a problem, because you'll probably be questioning the pace of this game. 
 I felt it was unnecessary to put so many easy beginning levels, and in addition, not giving us 
 the full capabilities until the tenth level (or so) . 
  
  Level ten, people. That's almost half-way through the game. Some people like the slow pace of the 
 story at the beginning. Some say it'll help you "understand" the game play more. It would've been 
 much easier to just put one test-level of introductions, instead of making TEN where you don't 
 get the full capabilities of the device. The point is that the length of the game play will feel... shortened 
 by the time you reach the eleventh level.
  
  Then again, Portal isn't exactly "easy." I can't really explain it in words, but the levels are 
 challenging, yet the answers that are needed to complete the levels are easy to find, and easy 
 to use. So basically, what may seem hard in Portal actually isn't very complicated OR hard at all. 
 Of course you'll only realize that after you play a level. 
  
  And... the goodies. Portal's voice is GlaDOS, the crazy robot lady. She is crazy, and she loves 
 poking funny jokes into you ear, so try to listen in while playing. 
  
  I'm gonna have to praise its ending-level designs, because frankly, Aperture Science is full of 
 surprises. All I'm going to say (to not spoil it for you) is that you will escape through the ugly 
 insides of the lab, and that it was GENIUS to make those levels. The ending is GENIUS too.
  
  So, Portal is a bit disappointing with its pace and overall length. But, sticking through to 
 the end is what you need to do to see the goodies. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: avataraang1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 14, 2007 6:47 pm PT
Review:  Portal is the new game created by Valve about Portals. You start out as a test subject for Apperture 
 science inc. and you are testing their new portal gun. The portal gun is a revolutionary new device 
 which can allow you to transport anywhere you want. Shoot a portal next to you and one across the 
 room go through and POOF your where you shot your other portal. A awesome Robot voice tells you 
 everything you should now and how to use the Portal Gun. But things start to get strange with this 
 computer. The game is all puzzle so for all you who like killing sorry you dont here. . I wont 
 get into much detail about the story since it really is amazing but heres a Pro and Con.
  
  Pro:
  
  Awesome graphics
  Amazing Gameplay
  Terrific story
  Great puzzles
  Great voice 
 acting
  Great music score
  Replayable
  
  Con:
  
  To short took me about 3 hours to beat 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bulletsword
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 8, 2007 3:09 pm PT
Review:  The term something completely different can be interpreted literally as in actually getting something 
 completely different. It can also be interpreted sarcastically as getting something that's been 
 done over a few times to the point of becoming very cliche.
  
  Portal is literally something completely different. Literally.
  
  Packaged with Valve's The 
 Orange Box, Portal is the odd one out. Already by the concept of the game, it already looks like 
 a unique ride. I am proud to say that Portal is by far, one of the most truly unique experiences 
 ever to grace the gaming world.
  
  I can't really say that there's much of a story to Portal. You're just a test subject that is given 
 a gun that can make portals where you can go through them and stuff. That's pretty much it.
  
  So you have the... portal gun. I have no idea what the full name of the device is, but it's 
 this little gun you hold in your hands and you shoot portals and stuff. Simple as that.
  
  Of course, since this is a puzzle game, it's really not that simple. When you shoot at a wall, 
 floor or ceiling, you'll create a portal which will be the entrance/exit to another portal. This 
 other portal can be created by using the secondary fire (right mouse) . By utilizing these two portals, 
 you'll have to solve various puzzles and just overcome the basic concept of getting here to there, 
 but instead of jumping platforms and pushing boxes, you have this nifty tool at your hands.
  
  But one has to think: Wouldn't you be able to exploit this to a high extent? Well, only certain 
 surfaces can be used to create portals so it's not like you can just shoot at anything to make 
 yourself a door to that little area over there. It's not like you'll only be needing to create 
 portals for the sake of getting from here to there, but it can be used to do unbelievable things 
 like jumping higher and launching yourself across rooms. You have to see it to believe it. You'll 
 really be making portals to accelerate yourself 50 meters a second, or some other high-speed number.
 
  
  Most of the puzzles are just a matter of getting from here to there with only certain portal-accessable 
 surfaces . Now that sounds pretty simple, but sometimes you can be stumped when you're really just 
 in a blank and empty room. You'll be very surprised at how unexpected some of the solutions are. 
 Once you get a bit farther, you'll be a bit more familiar and it should get easier as you go on.
 
  
  Some other puzzles you'll come across will be the usual unlock this door puzzle using blocks and 
 other objects with some spiced up obstacles like these energy walls that close your portals when 
 you walk through them. There are even instances where you have to get around turrets and even move 
 turrets and objects through the portals. It's really something you've never seen before in a video 
 game. Looking through portals at different angles is actually a neat sight to see.
  
  I don't play very many games that are intense on the puzzle solving, but to me the game was easy 
 enough to be playable and challenging enough to be fun.
  
  But it's not all about the portals. Strangely enough, the game is hilarious with its dialogue. 
 I don't really want to get too far with explaining it since it's really worth playing the game 
 through to listen to it. I can tell you, however, that you'll fall in love with the talking turrets. 
 Supposedly emotionless killing utensils are made lovable in Portal. Just every sentence of dialogue 
 spoken is noteworthy and something anyone will remember.
  
  Hopefully you should all know that the game runs off of the same engine Half Life 2 is based off 
 of. The Source engine is still beautiful here in Portal. The graphics may not be comparable to 
 some of the newer games coming out, but this is pretty enough to know that you're in 2007. The 
 game is also backed up by a pretty neat soundtrack which always kicks in at the right moments (though 
 i can't say that I heard much music) . And speaking of which, this is one of those times where you 
 will actually want to make it to the end credits.
  
  There's really not too many negative things about Portal unless you truly despise solving puzzles 
 and using your mind. The game lasts a few hours and once you're done, there's some extra challenge 
 maps available as well as a 100% guarantee of user-created maps. Otherwise, there's probably not 
 much meat left once you're done with the game. I can't say that replaying it through again is that 
 bad now that you know how to solve puzzles, but at least you'll be able to hear the goofy, clever 
 dialogue again.
  
  Out of all of The Orange Box games, this is sure to be a crowd favorite. It's one of a kind and 
 who knows if we'll ever get something as unique as this again. We can only hope that there is a 
 sequel or something to this because any good fan of Portal will be demanding more. If the goal 
 was to make something original involving puzzles, portals, and some hilariously written dialogue, 
 Portal has won the gold. For the time being, anyways. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hastur
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 7, 2007 12:09 pm PT
Review:  If you like puzzle games, this title has it all: original game-play, a great story line, superb 
 voice acting of the narrator, dark humor, a great atmosphere, intuitive puzzles (it never gets 
 frustrating) , quality over quantity (the duration of 10 hours felt just right) , lots of re-playability 
 and the ability to build your own or play the maps of others, and a one-liner you'll remember for 
 the rest of your days. The only reason why I don't give it a straight ten, is because of the dated 
 source engine.
  
  And don't forget to watch the credits at the end. It's the icing on the cake. ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Demagorgon
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 6, 2007 4:51 pm PT
Review:  Portal is a game that has gained a enormous cult following in record time. Within days of its release, 
 the game was hailed as a breakthrough for writing in games, as well as fantastic and innovative 
 first person perspective puzzle game. By now, everyone knows Portal features some of the most memorable 
 moments in a game this year, such as GlaDOS, the sociopathic computer overlord of the Aperture 
 Science centre, with a strange fondness for cake and a constant source of great lines and amusement. 
 The game's turrets, which are adorable with their innocent little voices, except for the fact that 
 they shoot at you.
  
  You've also probably heard about the Weighted Companion Cube. A character that is literally a crate 
 with a love heart on it, and appeared in the game for no more than 5 minutes, has become one of 
 the most popular new characters of the year. The game also features one of the best endings since 
 2002's Mafia.
  
  There is also a good chance you've heard about the games length, which prevents this game from 
 getting an overwhelming recommendation from me. Some would say the length is fine, but if you were 
 to buy this game individually over Steam, rather than as part of the Orange Box, you may end feeling 
 a little ripped off. This is because the game's story is only around 2 hours long. Some would say 
 this enough, that the game does not need to be any longer. I disagree.
  
  First of all, the game hardly ever really challenges the player in the story mode, with most puzzles 
 solved using one of a handful methods. The portal mechanic is not explored nearly enough in the 
 story mode. Several puzzles hint at what is possible, but the game never really gets as intense 
 as you might expect, and solving puzzles isn't as satisfying as it could be.
  
  The story mode is complemented with two different challenge types, once the game has been finished. 
 These are the challenge levels and the trial levels. The challenge levels are just levels from 
 the regular game slightly changed to make the more difficult, while the trial levels are the same 
 levels that are in the regular game, just with several parameters that must be met, such as finishing 
 a puzzle with a certain number of steps or portals. These levels will actually challenge the player, 
 but there is nowhere near enough of them, and it is a shame Valve did not do more with these modes.
 
  
  The game also comes with a commentary mode, in which the development team discuss the creation 
 of the game. It is interesting, and makes playing the game through a second time more worthwhile, 
 but considered how polished Valve's games are, its surprisingly poorly implemented. The commentary 
 is done by placing nodes through out the game which are floating speech bubbles that start minute 
 long comments when the use key is pressed over them. Unfortunately, GlaDOS is much louder than 
 the commentary nodes, and considering how much she talks, it is often difficult to hear what the 
 developer is saying, forcing the player to stop listening to the node, and since there is no pause 
 for the commentary, it forces you to re-listen to half of the node.
  
  Portal is a fantastic experience, and complements the games in the Orange Box superbly. However, 
 if one were to buy this game standalone, they might barely get a weekend's play out of it. There 
 are plenty of games available for $US20 or less that are more compelling purchases. But, if price 
 is not an issue, you still may be disappointed by this game's lack of depth, and although there 
 is the promise of user made levels (for the PC) in the future, there just isn't enough here for 
 anybody looking for a challenge. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tsornasse
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 6, 2007 1:39 pm PT
Review:  If you are into intense action, this is not for you. But if you enjoy the twisted puzzle solving, 
 this is worth experiencing.
  
  on the good side:
  Portal brings a new dimension to puzzle solving with its game play which, at times, seriously challenge 
 the mind. Opening entry and exit portals onto walls is not particularly challenging, but when you 
 have to find a way to gain enough momentum to emerge from an exit portal to clear a 100+-yard gap, 
 it's something else.
  
  My personal favorite is the character of the central computer which provides a surreal narrative 
 to this already unusual game. Take your time to listen what she has to say.
  
  On the negative side:
  I would have loved to play a bit longer, but I suspect that mods may come 
 out in the near future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZoolooMaster
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 5, 2007 10:27 am PT
Review:  First of all, I would just like to point out that I would rather put a score in the regions of 
 9.9 or 9.8, but no game deserves a 10, and since I have to choose between that and 9.5, I chose 
 the latter. There is a lot to be said about this game, but I needn't be the one to say it. This 
 will just be one big praise for what I consider to be the greatest achievement in PC gaming since 
 I first played Warcraft III (in 2002; I was 12) . Everything is good about Portal; from the blinding 
 polish and inch-think layer of varnish that is covering it, to the most intelligent storyline I 
 could contemplate being imagined for something like this. Portal brings an incredible amount of 
 top-quality humour, something which was more or less absent from the VG scene until today. In addition 
 to this, Portal houses completely innovative gameplay (unless you've played Narbacular Drop) teamed 
 with one of the best physics and graphics engines of the 21st century. Portal deserves some kind 
 of reward; I hope it goes onto Gamespot's greatest games of all time list. Despite its short length, 
 I still believe this will remain one of the most memorable experiences I have ever had in PC games, 
 and hold a special place in my heart, shared to equal measure with the companion cube 
::::::

::::::
UserName: viniterra
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 4, 2007 2:50 pm PT
Review:  I have to agree that plan a map for this game is something that requires many ingenuity, and this 
 can justify the few maps preset in the game. But I believe the editor opens possibility to add 
 3rd party maps with good quality.
  
  Tha gameplay is the most innovative feature I saw recently on a game. It is very fun to make the 
 infinite loops and other similar movements. It's inspiring to run against the gravity.
  
  Resuming, I will probably let this game for a long time on my machine and I will add some new maps 
 for more moments of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FatPipe
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 2, 2007 9:17 pm PT
Review:  I looked at this game as an extended level of HL2. Same engine, same look and feel, and same weapon, 
 made the controls feel right at home.
  
  Graphics - Very nice, and no crashes running maxed out at 1920X1080. Not to much in the texture 
 department because of the overall concept of the game, but well done for what they had to work 
 with.
  
  Gameplay - definitely different... needless to say it was a whole new take on a FPS style interface. 
 I'm no genius, but I really didnt find the game all that challenging until the very last 2 bonus 
 levels. It still made me think, but I was never stumped to the point of frustration, so I give 
 the developers credit for keeping the flow up. The game was short, but I wasnt expecting a marathon 
 so no bad marks for length.
  
  Storyline - Clever... I will leave it at that. Overall - prob dont need to convince anyone to play 
 this game as its part of a bundle, but if you were at all wavering, let me say its a fun way to 
 spend a night or two. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bromley2292
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 2, 2007 10:11 am PT
Review:  Portals, the name says everything its a crazy first person game in which you shoot portals to get 
 around levels, if this is not everything a gamer as dreamed of then i'm crazy. The game has really 
 innovative ideas which really make you think about how these people thought it through. So i would 
 say its a great game but there are a few flaws. Which would be the story being kind of crap and 
 boring with an annoying computer voice making random noises. I mean your playing this game and 
 this little annoying thing starts giving you stupid comments and you cant mute it. Then there is 
 something which you can take both ways which is when some levels require you to make portals in 
 the air and sort of 3D actions which my friends and I called trippy actions because some of us 
 would become so dizzy from the game even though it does make it cool. So in the end I would say 
 its a great game, lots of fun, too short, bad story, very TRIPPY and it makes you think.
  
  Love the ending clip and hoping it was a hint to portals 2 Thanks a lot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: apocmessiah
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 31, 2007 1:05 pm PT
Review:  A game that has more invention than big titles such as Bioshock and really engages the player. 
 It shows that games can still offer a great amount of enjoyment beyond eye candy and for this it 
 should be hailed.
  
  This is a first person puzzle solver told in darkly amusing way. The quirks to this game are excellent 
 and it narration superb. Level design has an excellent learning curve and the puzzle solving aspect 
 means it will be more accessible to people who aren't into the run and gun style of FPS's
  
  While short (around 3-4 hours play) , it does come free with the orange box and is only around 
 &pound;10 ($20) as a standalone. Its lower price is very representative to the game time it offers 
 and in my opinion is much better then title such as the aforementioned Bioshock which for around 
 &pound;30 ($60) offers 3 hours of excellent play and several more hours of tedium (the old De ja 
 Vue factor :D) .
  
  Hopefully the warm response of this game will mean they will rapidly work on a sequel. The serialized 
 gaming experience as seen with the Half Life Episodes could work very well with a game such as 
 this and I hope that is the way they will pan this title out. Score 9.5 as it is truly a benchmark 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Downham
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 30, 2007 4:25 pm PT
Review:  Before reading this review in the wrong light, I would like to point out this is for the benefit 
 of those who wish to buy the game standalone from steam. Portal came as a bit of a surprise package 
 in 'the orange box', and therefore, as part of one of gaming's great gems and possibly one of the 
 greatest deals of all time. However, as an individual game, it is nothing outstanding.
  
  You assume the role of a nameless, silent female protagonist who wakes up in a scientific institute 
 who undergoes number of tests involving portals. The game can only be completed through the manipulation 
 of these portals to get you through a linear AtoB environment. To start off, the puzzles are fairly 
 simple, but they begin to get harder as you go on. Having said this, anybody with a mild intellectual 
 capacity shouldn't find this game a chore. Quite often, the solutions will stay the same throughout.
 
  
  The game is also very short. A quick thinker could complete this in 2-3 hours. This is not to say 
 the game is not fun; with a humourous narration from a female robotic voice who begins to guide 
 you (and then misguide you) and a clean, modern vibe, Portal is an interesting and engaging aside 
 to Half Life 2 and whatever you may have on steam.
  
  And that is what it comes down to: Portal is a nice addition, will keep you occupied for a few 
 hours, but introduces nothing groundbreaking. Once you have completed the game, you may come back, 
 but you'll probably be more interested in your other games. As an individual purchase, at $19.95 
 the game is a little too expensive, but is a welcome addition to the orange box. My advice? Buy 
 orange box, or wait for price to drop. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DerekLoffin
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 30, 2007 3:21 pm PT
Review:  It is really hard to review Portal. What do you say about a First Person Shooter with almost none 
 of the normal First Person Shooter trapping, and that is really just First Person Puzzle game? 
 I don't really know, but I love it none the less.
  
  Portal is set in the Half Life universe, and beyond that and the engine used to make the game, 
 it shares virtually nothing in common with HL2. Instead, for the entire game you are trapped within 
 a research facility, forced to solve various puzzles to make your way forward. Aiding you in this 
 task is your portal gun, an awesome tool that creates doorways between two positions in the game 
 world.
  
  The portal gun I believe is probably one of the biggest innovations in an FPS I've encountered 
 in quite some time, and it makes for some real mind bending possibilities. You'll use this handy 
 little tool to defeat turrets, move cube, and generally avoid danger, and it all feels so very 
 natural that you can tell the game designers really put some real good thought into making it work 
 well.
  
  However, in the end, it isn't the portals that makes it such an endearing game. No, what makes 
 portal so very grabbing is GLaDos, your AI tormentor. Throughout your journey in the facility, 
 GLaDos will speak to you, with a very computer like, but also strangely twisted mind that becomes 
 ever more evident as you proceed. Add in the subtle elements of story from your previous test victims' 
 scrawls on the walls, and the gun turrets with child like voices, and you get such a marvelous 
 experience in a game that few have match.
  
  So, what is that glaring fault I mentioned, it's length. Portal clocks in at maybe at most 3 hours 
 your 1st time through, and quickly drops from there on subsequent playthroughs (I did my last one 
 in just over an hour) . There are challenge maps that add to the time, and they can be fun, but 
 it just doesn't match up to the wonderful single player experience.
  
  At $20 dollars (it's individual price) or as a pack in with orange box, it worth it I think either 
 way, and just such a unique experience that I feel everyone should at least give it a try via rental, 
 or a friends house.
  
  Oh yes, and the cake is a lie! :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jthomas29
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 29, 2007 9:21 pm PT
Review:  When I first saw the infomercial-esque trailers for Portal on the Half-Life preview pages a couple 
 of years back I was itching to play it. Now it's finally arrived i am far from disappointed.
  
  In a nutshell, you awake in a glass-walled prison cell and, with the aid of a disembodied female 
 computer voice (going by the name of GLaDOS) as your guide, are very quickly introduced to the 
 concept of 'portals'. These aren't the kind that help you cross inter-dimensional rifts in the 
 universe, though. Put simply, fire one portal on one wall and one on another wall and you can walk 
 through the first hole and come out the second one. Or through the second and come out the first. 
 The beauty - and initial mind-bendery - of this is you can put your portals virtually anywhere. 
 Soon you find yourself falling up through the floor, or plummeting down a gulley only to hurtle 
 forward out of a strategically placed wall portal at the same speed. Whilst early training areas 
 are purposefully simple, later levels have you 'flinging' yourself across ledges, timing portals 
 just right so as to redirect dangerous energy balls or working out novel ways to put pesky (but 
 strangely cute) sentry guns out of action.
  
  Though many - including myself - are a bit miffed by the shortness of Portal, I can only assume 
 the production team had it in mind as a taster game. Why spend months on such an innovative concept 
 only to find it falls flat with its audience?
  
  But Portal does nothing of the sort. The styling is reminiscent of the bright but sterile Black 
 Mesa testing facility (before the 'incident') , with satisfyingly chunky buttons 'n' blocks that 
 almost feel pre-school. Your guide GLaDOS is an object lesson in comedy writing - her lilting mechanised 
 voice becoming more dark, sinister and overtly sadistic as the game goes on, and all the funnier 
 for it. I kept being reminded of the Hitchhikers Guide to the Galaxy's fabulous Genuine People 
 Personality robots - think the Nutri-matic dispenser crossed with the Hal 9000. Even the sentry 
 guns get personalities - anyone who didn't let out a burst of laughter the first time they heard 
 one say 'I don't hate you' as it clattered over can safely be said to have no sense of humour. 
 And any game that can get you emotionally involved with a storage cube... Well - lets just say 
 there's been a lot of love put into this game.
  
  Once the nineteen levels are complete - and the last three alone take as long to get through as 
 the entire rest of the game up till then - you are rewarded with the most inspired end-credit song 
 ever heard on a game. No dodgy Japanese soft-rock here! You then have the added options of 'Advanced 
 Levels' (the last few levels again only with added hazards or fewer aids) and a 'Bonus' challenges 
 (the same levels with limits on things like portal number, time etc) . You can also play the levels 
 with 'Directors Commentary' though this is predominantly tech-based stuff about how the developers 
 tweaked the game. A small suggestion for the future could be an option to see your progress from 
 the point of view of the cameras dotted around each level - kinda like a third-person action replay 
 of your more spectacular stunts once the level's complete. The bonus menu suggests additional levels 
 can be downloaded too. And the game does demand a second play, partly cos the later levels give 
 you ideas on how to finish earlier levels more easily or spectacularly, but partly cos GLaDOS is 
 so bleedin' funny!
  
  If you're after a meaty,  epic of a game then this is not for you. 
 But as an introduction to a totally new kind of puzzler this is second-to-none and I really hope 
 Valve can come up with a worthy follow-up. And soon! Or i may have to pass out from thirst... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mcrunfast
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 28, 2007 10:31 pm PT
Review:  I got the Orange Box largely for all the Half-Life 2 goodness and Team Fortress. I'd never played 
 any of the Half-Life 2 games, and it seemed like the perfect bundle to get all of that. I'd heard 
 good things about Portal, but I wasn't ever really paying attention. So one day I decided to give 
 the little game a shot.
  
  .... wow.
  
  It totally took me by surprise at just how good it was. I think truly good comedy in games is one 
 of the rarest things around. There's moments here and there, but rarely does a game make me double 
 over and laugh long and hard. The writing is crisp and superb, coupled with an equally amazing 
 delivery. The main voice you'll hear is that of GLaDOS, the AI program guiding you along your quest. 
 I won't spoil anything here, but the dialogue given to her and her delivery is just perfect. Even 
 the guard androids have this perfect voice matched to them. They sound so innocent and almost cute 
 at times, as they shred you full of lead for crossing their field of view. The story itself is 
 far better than I expected. When I first started playing I thought it was a pretty neat theme for 
 a puzzler game. The longer I played though, the more I realized there's a lot more to the plot 
 than first seems. It might be a little slow going, but once it starts to open up, it does so at 
 a rapid pace that will hook you until the end. It's rare in modern games where storytelling and 
 voice acting can steal the show like they did in Portal.
  
  So the game is funny, and the story is crisp and engaging, how does it actually play? Very, very 
 well. In a world where games are loaded up with a myriad of different guns, modifications with 
 those guns, abilities and powers, Portal comes along with a refreshing level of simplicity. You 
 have one item throughout the game, the portal gun. It's the cornerstone mechanic behind the game, 
 and while it's simple, as the game progresses, you'll have to bend your brain in a number of ways 
 to unravel the more challenging puzzles.
  
  The gun is fairly simple. Each trigger fires either a blue or yellow portal. If you go in the blue, 
 you come out the yellow, and vice versa. You can place them almost anywhere, and you'll need to 
 as well to solve each puzzle. It's definitely a case of easy to learn, difficult to master.
  
  The game is rather short. In one sense it will leave you wanting more, however the length is 
 perfectly matched to the plot and story. The game does offer achievements and a challenge mode 
 which let you revisit certain areas of the game with the difficulty amped up if you're into those 
 sorts of things. The replay value beyond that is a little low. However there is hope for the game 
 in the sense of user created levels that will inevitably start surfacing. However if you're hungry 
 for more story or the crisp dialog, you'll be stuck with what you get out of the box. Despite being 
 short, it feels perfectly matched to the pacing of the game, and I never once felt short changed 
 by the experience.
  
  The graphics are simple, but the clean simplistic looks completely fit with the test lab theme 
 of the game. They won't break any grounds, but they're crisp, clean and fitting. They also will 
 run great on a wide spectrum of machines.
  
  All in all, Portal is a brief, but engaging experience. As I mentioned earlier, few games manage 
 to actually be a good comedic experience. Portal manages just that. It's been a long, long, long 
 time since I've seen that. Mr. Schafer would be proud. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flclempire
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 28, 2007 12:09 am PT
Review:  Its more of a collection fo mini games really, all revolving around the idea of using portal to 
 the best of the player's ability. The thing that really makes the story mode stick out is GlaDOS, 
 she is just awesome. The game was very short so there isn't much to talk about...
  
  The sounds was excellent, from the clanking of physical objects to the radio and credit songs, 
 its all a+.
  
  The graphics were good too, a bit sterile but thats was the point. b+.
  
  The story and characters didn't have much depth, but the little that is played/shown tells 
 much about the portal universe and introduces them into the HL2 story, I enjoyed it very much.
 
  
  The bad things I can say about this game are:
  Way too short
  Not enough levels
  The achievements are pretty lame
  And thats about it :)
  the end! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kilzombie
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 26, 2007 8:10 am PT
Review:  Well, I've only played this once, and without playing around with the bonus features. This game 
 amazed me. First of all, I'd like to say that, even though you can finish this game in a very short 
 time, it's worth playing. The puzzles are mind blowing-ly simple yet very confusing and disorientating. 
 The graphics are great, but not really important, it's the gameplay that's well executed, and very, 
 very fun. And when you do beat the game, the song at the end will have you laughing your head off. 
 The whole game is filled with humor, from Gladis's remarks to the comments of the turrets themselves.
 
  Overall, this is a SUPERB game that only suffers from it's shortness.
  I'd reccomend this to anyone. Also, you don't have to worry about monsters or zombies at every 
 corner, the only enemies you encounter are the turrents.
  
  Gameplay: 9.5
  Graphics: 9
  Sound: 10
  Value: 9.5
  Tilt: 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: woopdedo
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 26, 2007 3:53 am PT
Review:  Keep in mind this review is coming from someone who has barely played through any FPS's. So this 
 review is from a certain mindset.
  
  Overall i guess i can say i deeply enjoyed portal. There was something about it that really left 
 me with the mindset in the end of wow, now wasn't that nice? now you see if the game was the length 
 of most other games it could have been something real special but as you have probably heard, its 
 VERY short. like, demo length short.... but that most certainly does not stop it from being an excellent 
 game.
  
  [spoiler] But one thing i found very strange the part i found myself having an awesome time on 
 though.... is when your escaping and going through the... like.... industrial area? for some reason 
 the change in scenery made the game seem oh so much more fun in comparison to large white rooms. 
 Call me mad... but the red rusted rooms with grates and everything reminded me of the otherworld 
 in silent hill.....
  
  [spoiler] So anyway, if they had developed more of a storyline after the change of environment 
 in the game i personally would have found it being a favorite of mine. A great game for people 
 who are not much of FPS gamers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Superfluous2
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 25, 2007 6:23 pm PT
Review:  Most likely the most innovative game I have ever played, Portal takes gaming to a whole new dimension 
 (pun intended) . The level of fun and humor that Portal brings to the Half-Life universe is a welcome 
 break from the apocalyptic scenario of Half-Life 2 and it's Episodes 1 and 2. Along with incredible 
 graphics and a proven physics engine, this humorous style reinvents the old, worn out genre of 
 Puzzle Gaming. Inspired by the Free-ware game 'Narbacular Drop', which can be downloaded for free 
 at the Nuclear Monkey Software website, Portal builds on an idea to involve more skill in games 
 and go back to the original idea that games should be fun. It seems that games such as the Battlefield 
 series, although great games, have lost this sense of fun and are more concerned in recreating 
 realism and difficulty. Portal is quite difficult in some places, but remains enjoyable throughout 
 the entire game.
  
  The only disappointing aspect of Portal is that it lacks in length, having a small number of levels, 
 some of which are quite simple. Extra challenges such as least time, step and Portal trials keep 
 things moving, but the same levels can get repetitive. What Portal lacks in length it makes up 
 for in everything else, from fine graphics, amazing effects and a commendable soundtrack and voice 
 acting. I'm giving it 9/10. It would have easily been 9.5 or even a perfect 10 if not for the length, 
 but it's an incredible game all the same. Definitely one of my favorites in the Half-Life universe. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: viceg
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 25, 2007 8:36 am PT
Review:  This game is really awesome. I even can't hard good words to describe it. First of all it is good 
 promotion for games, it shows that FPP game maybe be very good also without much brutality.
  
  Almost all aspects of this game are very good or superb. Whole concept - portals is something 
 revolutionary. Music and graphic... can't say much about that, it is just OK. Nothing special but 
 it looks good. And it runs acceptable even on few years old PCs (my PC is a good one but my brother 
 uses our old PC - Athlond 2600+, Radeon 9700 and 2x512MB RAM) .
  
  One thing is definitely very surprising - humour... I knew about concept of this game but I didn't 
 expect that it could be funny, at all. But it is DAMN FUNNY. Especially in the and (last maps and 
 outro) .
  
  Better play it, because you can miss one of the most important games in the whole history of digital 
 entertainment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bighaben
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 24, 2007 12:24 pm PT
Review:  When I picked up the Orange Box, besides actually playing HL2 for the first time, I was really 
 looking forward to playing Portal, and I was very suprised. This game is fantastic, and surprisingly 
 challenging. The game is simple enough, and there won't be any problems attempting to figure out 
 how the game actually functions. The game does a good job of scaling up the difficulty so you naturally 
 learn rather then being told how to do it. And it all culminates in the last 3 levels, where you 
 use all your knowledge to get through some freakishly hard puzzles toward the end. And then it's 
 over, but you get a good song! A song that, like the rest of the game, is hilarious in a very unique 
 way and that's where this game wins. The humor is top notch, and the mood that is set by the monotone 
 computer voice will draw you into a rather simple storyline. By the time I finished this game I 
 found myself in love with every aspect of it, this is a truly perfect game. Though short, I feel 
 the modding community will provide plenty of extras so I look forward to that. If you have not 
 played Portal, play it, simple as that, it'll be one of the best 4 to 5 hours of your video game 
 life.
  
  Oh, by the way, the cake is total and unjustified lie. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctor_kaz
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 24, 2007 11:25 am PT
Review:  Portal is one of those rare games that comes out every year or two and gives you an experience 
 that you have never had before. It is a brilliant and ingeniously-designed puzzle game that is 
 as satisfying and innovative as Lode Runner, Lemmings, and the other classics of this mostly dead 
 genre. Unlike those games though, Portal also has a surprisingly good story and a highly amusing 
 AI character that blend in perfectly with the gameplay to provide a highly entertaining experience. 
 Its only fault is that it is over before you know it, and it doesnt have much replayability or 
 longevity. A great puzzle game should give you challenges for weeks, but Portal only lasts for 
 a couple of hours.
  
  The premise of Portal is simple. You are an unwilling test subject with an experimental portal 
 gun working for Aperture, Inc, a former competitor of Black Mesa in the Half-Life universe. You 
 can place portals on walls, floors, or ceilings and freely walk in or out of them. You can also 
 pick up and carry a few objects and put them through portals as well. Using these simple tools, 
 you must solve puzzles, avoid obstacles, and reach the exit for each level. The game mechanics 
 are totally different from anything else ever created, and almost every challenge feels like a 
 brand new experience.
  
  Portal is full of wicked dark humor that makes it one of the funniest games in years. The game 
 has only two characters  you and Glados, a strange AI narrator that guides you through the test 
 stages. This character is like a female version of HAL from 2001, but with emotional security problems 
 and a sadistic streak. She is full of one-liners that childishly insult you or remind you of what 
 a hopeless situation you are in. At the same time, she tries to convince you not to try and escape, 
 like she is going to be lonely if you ever leave. Glados is a cleverly written character and one 
 of the most unique villains in gaming.
  
  Gameplay and story aside, Portals presentation is ordinary, but adequate. The graphics are about 
 on par with Half-Life 2, a game that look superb three years ago and still looks good today. Most 
 of the environments are brightly colored and very simple and low on detail. This style works, however, 
 because it is consistent with the games premise that it takes place in a gigantic laboratory. 
 The voice acting for Glados is excellent, and most of the audio other than that is reused from 
 Half-life 2. The sound effects get the job done but they are generally unremarkable.
  
  Portal comes as part of the Orange Box, and unbeknownst to most people, can also be purchased separately 
 for $20 off of Steam. Therein, lies the games major problem. For $20, you get an experience that 
 you can finish between lunch and dinner, and still have time left over for a two-hour nap. The 
 game is tightly linear and doesnt have much replayability, so the optimal price for it would be 
 closer to $10, and not $20. Buying Portal is like buying a $30 hamburger at a nice restaurant -- 
 even if that hamburger is one of the best that you have ever eaten  was it still worth paying 
 $30?
  
  Only you can decide that for yourself, but I, for one, wanted it to be longer for the money. If 
 Portal had lasted longer, it might have been one of the greatest puzzle games ever made. As it 
 stands, it is an incredibly fun experience that, unfortunately, will probably end up on your shelf 
 after a couple of hours to be played never again, or maybe once more. If you are okay paying $20 
 for this experience, then by all means, buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jmrwacko
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 23, 2007 4:28 pm PT
Review:  Portal wouldn't stand as a game alone with its lackluster length (the main story takes only about 
 3 hours to complete in the first playthrough) . However, as a part of a larger package, Portal is 
 a hilarious dose of comic relief from the wrenching emotional finale of Episode 2. The gameplay 
 is unique and the puzzles are probably some of the best ever seen in an FPS, but it's Valve's insane 
 sense of humor that gives this game its value. I've never laughed this much at a video game in 
 my life. Not even Sam and Max can touch the jokes cracked throughout Portal. Seriously, just play 
 it. You'll be so glad you did. Also, cake! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Packfan104L4
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 22, 2007 1:16 pm PT
Review:  Although the game only last about 3 hours during its initial play through, the replay value of 
 this game adds to it's value exponentially.
  
  Portal is a physics based game where you are controlling the Apature Science Handheld Portal Device 
 which allows the user to create 2 portals and when you walk into one, you come out the other. This 
 technique can be combined with the fact that if you fall 3 stories off of a ledge into one portal 
 and place the other portal high on a wall, you'll fly a great distance out of the wall. A VERY 
 cool concept.
  
  This cool concept is executed perfectly over 18 levels that make use of most of what Portal has 
 to offer. After the game is completed the advanced challenges and other challenges make the game 
 MUCH more difficult and turrets are much more fun. Add to this the fact that user created maps 
 that are even MORE challenging than the packed in advanced challenges, you have an experience that 
 will last for a great deal of time.
  
  Oh and the user based maps don't take up much HD space at all. About 1-3 MB per map, assuming the 
 creator doesn't add any new major textures or art.
  
  Overall, a must buy, even if you don't want the entire Orange Box the game comes with. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Smoke0
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 22, 2007 9:35 am PT
Review:  Orginnaly part of the Orange Box, it was supposed to be reviewed along with the Orange Box, but 
 since i&acute; m far away from completing the 3 Half-Life games, and still need hours of fun in 
 Team Fortress, i decided to review the game on it&acute; s own.
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Value is most known for Half-Life, so it was suprising that they made a game like Portal. Portal 
 is a puzzle game trying to break newground. Does it succed, or do we need a portal to throw this 
 game away in?
  
  STORY
  
  Yes it has a story. You play as Chell, who wakes up in a tech lap, called Aperture Science. She 
 is told by the only other character in the game GLaDOS (Genetic Lifeform and Disk Operating System) , 
 that she needs to complete some tests, using their new Aperture Science Handheld Portal Device, 
 which allows the user to create teleportation portals. The story at first seems like non existent, 
 but as you get further into the game, the story really picks up, and throws some suprising twists 
 at you, that you&acute; ll normally never see in a puzzle game. So later it envolves froma sad excuse, 
 to a good story. 8.0
  
  GAMEPLAY
  
  The portal gun let&acute; s you create portals on the walls, celling, and floor, if it&acute; s a 
 special type of floor, wall and celling, which is it for most of the game. The objective is to 
 cler each of the 19 test rooms, and complete the game. Each of the rooms contain puzzles like get 
 from A to B, get box from A to B, and get ball from A to B. Sounds linear, and it is a bit, but 
 it&acute; s the way it&acute; s done that keeps it fresh and intresting. See creating teleportation 
 portals, is never seen in a game. it&acute; s so completely orginal. The puzzles are a bit easy, 
 but from room 17, you really have to think, plus after the game has been completed, advanced versions 
 of the levels is unlocked, which are a bit hard. There are no real enemies in the game. There&acute; s 
 turrents who can kill you yes, but that is the only enemy, if it is an enemy at all. So what&acute; s 
 the bad part of the gameplay? It can get a bit linear at times, but as i said, the orginal gameplay 
 keeps it fresh and forgiveable. 9.0
  
  GRAPHICS
  
  The game uses the same Source engine as Half Life 2 does, but the pyshic part isen&acute; t used 
 as much here. Here it&acute; s mainy for creating the levels, and things standing in your way. It&acute; s 
 still there, but not used as much as in Half Life 2. The levels look a bit linear too, featuring 
 almost the same textures every time, although that changes in the last levels. There is only one 
 character model in the game, and that&acute; s your play character, and you don&acute; t even get 
 to see her much, although you do get to see her. The weapon looks nice, but there aren&acute; t 
 any cool effects following with it. In fact, the game dosen&acute; t have many effects. It does 
 have very few effects, and they aren&acute; t stunning, so in the graphics department, the game 
 disappoints a little. 7.0
  
  SOUND
  
  Sound effects don&acute; t come in big numbers either, but it is helped a bit by the voice acting. 
 The only person that talks in the game are GLaDOS, who has some good dialoge, and promises you 
 cake, which is a nice touch. Seriously the cake talk is awesome. Her voice can be a bit annoying 
 at times, as it&acute; s completely computer voice, but the dialog makes it easy to forgive it. 
 The music is very far and between, and it sounds like music from Half Life 2, so it depends if 
 you liked the music in Half Life 2 or not. 8.0
  
  LENGTH
  
  The game is suprisingly short, and can be completed in a matter of 2 hours, which is really short, 
 and it&acute; s the thing that drags the game down in the long run. It&acute; s far too short. There 
 is new levels and achivements to unlock, but there&acute; s not much besides that, keeping you playing.
 
  
  OVERALL
  
  Portal is a suprisingly good game. It&acute; s orginal, full of good dialoge, and a suprisingly 
 good story. But it&acute; s linear graphics, and very short length drags it down quite a bit. But 
 if you like puzzle games, Portal is the game for you.
  
  (also avaliable in The Orange Box for X-Box 360, PC, and PS3 (PS3 version coming very soon) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: torinraven
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 22, 2007 9:24 am PT
Review:  I went into Portal thinknig that it would be a big waste of time but was pleasantly surprised. 
 I booted the game up the first time just to check it out for a couple minutes before going to bed... 
 Three hours later, I looked up and saw that it was now well past my usual bedtime and now the end 
 credit song was irrevocably stuck in my head. The challenges had a nice level of increasing difficulty, 
 but I did not run into anything that utterly stumped me until the advanced challenges. I agree 
 with numerous other users who say that the game is too short, but it had nice graphics, was a lot 
 of fun, and I enjoyed seeing how it ties in with HL2E2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sarnaath
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 21, 2007 11:15 pm PT
Review:  Portal is simply awesome. I had such fun playing for the first time. It was an amazing experience. 
 Really great puzzles that were challenging enough, but not too tough. I've played the game through 
 about 7 times so far. After the first time, I played it twice to get all the cameras, and about 
 4 times for the sheer joy of it.
  
  The challenges for the last 6 testing chambers are quite difficult. The advanced maps really up 
 the difficulty too. The goals really force you to reconsider how you've made it through these particular 
 levels so far. Overall I found this game an unusually satisfying experience. One that tested not 
 only my intelligence but also my reflexes. But it was also funny. GLaDOS, the AI intelligence behind 
 the testing procedure is hilarious. A standout character to be remembered. I hope she is brought 
 back in Portal 2. I hope there is a Portal 2. I would say, I hope so 'soon', but knowing Valve, 
 I think we'll have to wait a while.
  
  If you don't want the whole Orange Box. the buy this one game off of Steam. It's totally worth 
 the $20.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bnwchbammer
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 21, 2007 9:00 pm PT
Review:  This has to be one of the best games I've ever played. everything about this game except the fact 
 that it is too short. Well lemme break it down like I always do.
  
  Graphics: Insane. the graphics of this game were flawless. I think it uses the HL2 engine sorta 
 so they are comparable with graphics.
  
  Sound/Music: Insane again. The soundtrack reacts to the certain things you are doing in the game 
 and it always feels so cool. The computer, GLaDOS (I think thats how it is spelled) keeps hexing 
 you and is actually funny sometimes. In fact, at the end of the game, GLaDOS sings a song, its 
 pretty funny, and you can download it anywhere.
  
  Gameplay: This gets an 11 but im gonna have to subtract 1 for the fact that there are only 19 levels. 
 But, I'm gonna break this down for you even. The storyline is incredable. You are a test subject 
 in Abeture Sience Labs, and you are subbosed to be testing the new gun that they made that makes 
 portals. The computer is constantly talking to you which adds a little bit of a comic feeling as 
 well as a freaky feeling, I mean it wouldn't be Valve without something freaky right? Well you 
 go through these rooms where your main goal is to get to the exit. Sounds simple, and, in fact, 
 it sort of is. I'm gonna go flat out and say this game wasn't that hard. This game didn't need 
 to be hard though. You are so imersed in this game that you think you are actually in Apeture testing 
 out this portal gun. The game forces you to think outside the box and then switches it up, and 
 makes you think in a more classic puzzle solving way. The game only takes about 2-3 hours the first 
 time around, then if you feel the need to play it again (like I did) it'l only take you about an 
 hour.
  
  Ok, well pick up this game, in the orange box or just on steam, you have to play this if you like 
 puzzles, if you like FPS, or... actually just play this game.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  the cake is a lie 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Grantelicious
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 21, 2007 3:04 am PT
Review:  So my internet has been down for about a month and because i needed it to activate the games on 
 Steam with the same motherboard i had to wait to play the Orange Box games. All my friends were 
 raving on about how Portal is amazing and funny, so i was hyped up about it but when i played it 
 i wasn't impressed. It's lucky this game was sold with the Orange Box because it wouldn't have 
 done well on it's own as it's only about 2 hours long and feels more like a exprimental polished 
 mod rather than a full game.
  
  Don't get me wrong this game has great points like the great graphics and the fantastic sounds. 
 The game has alot of humour in it too but it doesn't really come out till the final level which 
 is a shame. Just what Portal lacks is length and a proper story and level structure because atm 
 it feels too much like a series of small levels until you hit the final one and it opens up. That 
 really sums up the whole game for me, how the last level is really the only good one. I really 
 love all the atmosphere it creates and the computer womans voice that talks to you throughout and 
 has some great sarcasm too but it's just a shame it's sooo short and never picks up till the last 
 level. What i also found weird was how it's dead easy until like around level 11ish and then it 
 suddenly just becomes harder so it has alot of pacing issues.
  
  The sound of the game is fantastic with a great script and music. The credit song at the end is 
 very funny and really really good actually. The graphics are all top notch aswel and even though 
 the source engine was due to be released in 2003 (not released till 2004) it's still looking fantastic 
 and one of the best looking games out there. They really manage to create a experimental atmosphere 
 and really sciencey lol.
  
  So theres not much more to say other than it's a funny game and worth playing as you get it with 
 the orange box. However it's too short and the game doesn't really get good until the last level, 
 maybe these portals however might work their way into HL3 or even episode 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pantweasel
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 21, 2007 1:57 am PT
Review:  Portal is one of those games that when you play it, you will think Wow, this is pretty freakin' 
 cool. The whole concept behind the game is very innovative, yet at the same time it feels like 
 it should have been done a long time ago. I must say, gathering momentum and flinging yourself 
 through a portal has to be one of the best things you can do in a PC game. The game doesn't alienate 
 certain players, unless you're a player who strictly plays 3rd-person action games. The puzzle 
 difficulty level is just right, especially for someone like me who gets frustrated at puzzles very 
 easily and will put the game down for 6+ months after not being able to solve a puzzle. The game 
 is short; it took me 3 1/2 hours to finish it, and that was all in one sitting. The visual style 
 is amazing. The whole Aperture Science facility looks very sleek and clean, and it makes you feel 
 like you're almost in a completely sterile environment, which would make sense, because it's a 
 science facility. The audio in the game is excellent as well. From the sound effects of the portal 
 gun, to the excellent voice-over, to the ending credits (which is arguably the best part in the 
 game) . The script writing was excellently done as well, because the game is flat out hilarious. 
 By the time you get to the end, you will be laughing very hard, I guarantee it.
  
  Long story short: Portal is an awesome first-person puzzle game that looks great, sounds great, 
 plays great, and is just overall an excellent game that everyone should play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pepsiboy987
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 20, 2007 4:35 pm PT
Review:  At first, i wasnt really impress enough to play this game as my first choice was half-life2. ep2 
 to play off........ both of them came along with the orange box ,just as i played the first tutorial 
 of the portal, i was heck of impressed with its graphic n fantastic gameplay (thanks to the new 
 source engine) ........ well not a bad deal for $49...... Impressive graphic details, tricky puzzles 
 (it took me hours to solve some puzzles out) .. very unique script ideas, tests, portal's amazing 
 gameplay and the funny computer talks and guides u lol quite funny... just a little bit of disappointing 
 with the lenth of the story-line , its kind of short like the hl2 ep1 and 2 but i hope soon valve 
 brings up portal's expansions or a new series but still definetly worth playing actually a must 
 play guys... if your into puzzle games and a fan of valve like me then portals here for u!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kev_Boy
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 20, 2007 1:44 am PT
Review:  Going into The Orange Box this was the game I was least psyched for. It turned out to be for all 
 the reasons I had previously expected.
  
  The game just doesn't do much to amaze or vary, the environments are all very similar not to mention 
 the puzzles are down-right to easy before the 15th level. It seems comparable to the gravity gun 
 getting a game all for itself, it just wouldn't hold up very well.
  
  That's not to say it's bad though because it is a good game. It looks clean and sterile which helps 
 with the unique feel the game has, it also manages to use vocal work to a good extent and the puzzles 
 after the 14 level really do get quite interesting to solve.
  
  This is my opinion and I know I shouldn't write it, but I will.
  Reviews with scores of 9.5+ 
 are simply caught up in the novelty.
  
  Overall this is a good game in a great package which is The Orange Box, as a separate game it's 
 also worth purchasing but I think it runs for 30 dollars which is a little bit to expensive though 
 it could also be 20 dollars which is a fair price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mailbox2112
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 19, 2007 2:18 pm PT
Review:  First, I would like to know, how many people bought Half-Life 2 just to fool around with the physics, 
 using Gmod? I did. And this game is exactly what I use Gmod for. Screwing aroung with physics!!!! 
 I mean, how fun it is to put 2 portals next to each other and jump in and out!!! Anyway, let's 
 get to the review. The game has great graphics, plain and simple. Although I suck at puzzle games, 
 I beat this in 2-4 hours. It takes 1-20 minutes per level, depending on which on you're on. The 
 levels are brilliant. They take full advantage of the Physics in the Source engine and are fun 
 to just play around in. The story the Guide voice will make you laugh at some of the things it 
 says. If you like puzzles, portals, and incredibly anoying narrators. portal is the game for you! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: h_alipanahgold
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 19, 2007 10:18 am PT
Review:  When writing your review, remember to keep the language clean. Reviews must be 100 words minimum. 
 We encourage you to try to get your review right the first time  you may choose to edit it later 
 on, but by doing so, you will lose any positive feedback associated with the review. We encourage 
 you to write your review in a word processor or text editor, save it to your local disk, then copy 
 and paste it into the posting box below. When writing your review, remember to keep the language 
 clean. Reviews must be 100 words minimum. We encourage you to try to get your review right the 
 first time  you may choose to edit it later on, but by doing so, you will lose any positive feedback 
 associated with the review. We encourage you to write your review in a word processor or text editor, 
 save it to your local disk, then copy and paste it into the posting box below. When writing your 
 review, remember to keep the language clean. Reviews must be 100 words minimum. We encourage you 
 to try to get your review right the first time  you may choose to edit it later on, but by doing 
 so, you will lose any positive feedback associated with the review. We encourage you to write your 
 review in a word processor or text editor, save it to your local disk, then copy and paste it into 
 the posting box below. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Paladin_basic
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 19, 2007 9:25 am PT
Review:  Portal is a new game based on the HL2 Graphics Engine, and is a puzzle game that has the player 
 using portals created using a hand held portal device and working with gravity to create portals 
 in order to solve puzzles
  
  It's not an overly complex game to understand, and there are quite a few funny moments when listening 
 to the computer as it talks to you. Graphically it's quite nice to look at, although sound effects 
 and music are more run of the mill
  
  One or two puzzles do require some pretty quick reactions and are thought provocing but otherwise 
 they're not exactly Mensa quality, and I have already heard from other players that they felt the 
 game ends way too soon, and that what they had played was a tutorial and indeed many of the earlier 
 tests are tutorials
  
  And this is where the game lets itself down. Tutorials are NOT levels and it's time developers 
 relised you can't really count them as such. I was a good half way through the game before I started 
 feeling challenged and tests were not taking less than 5 minutes to complete, and I wouldn't say 
 I was especially clever!
  
  To sum up, a brilliant game but lacking in longevity due to the lack of tests. I would say Valve's 
 intentions are to release more tests in expansion packs, most likely via Steam. I've given the 
 game 8.5 because overall it is a great game, but it's not getting 9+ due to the shortness of the 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: will226
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 19, 2007 8:41 am PT
Review:  Fantastic game! you really will have a fun time playing it
  
  Problems:
  1. too short, altho there are other parts of the game (ie. time trials and least portal modes) i 
 did feel it went too quick.
  2. altho slightly and enjoyable challenging in places, alot of it i did think the creators were 
 yelling out you're a retard with their lame and unnecessary explanations of certain stuff
  3. Gun turrets that were meant to add action ( i guess) took away from the puzzle element of the 
 game too much in place, i would have liked to of seen more ingenious ways of getting by these obstacles 
 rather than pretty much dodging, grabing and maybe sometimes dropping stuff on them)
  
  Bonuses:
  !script was amazing! the game kept me very motivated to play on with an hilarious and 
 interesting voice-over. also with interesting snippets of music and wall writing, this game actually 
 kept me in suspense too.
  
  Worth &pound;10 solo price? Well its a must play game, so buy it and lend ur account to all your 
 mates (charge a small fee if ur a Bas**** ^^) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johny2giant
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 18, 2007 10:02 am PT
Review:  Never have I ever experienced such a brilliantly made game, from the great puzzle design, to the 
 hilarious dialogue. The learning curve is incredibly short, thanks to the number of tutorial levels. But 
 things instantly get different once you get the full Portal gun. Solving puzzles is just, FUN. The 
 main game itself is on the short side, but the bonus maps and challenges will continue bending your 
 mind for hours to come. Graphics are also nice, thanks to the updated Source engine. But the sence 
 of humor doesn't get really rolling until the end of the game, where you'll just be laughing so 
 hard you won't be able to solve the puzzles! Also, this game will remind you how valuable cake is, 
 just play it and find out. The only drawback is the 19 dollar price, but if you get it altogether 
 with the Orange Box, you'll practically be paying 1/4 of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jansoft88
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 18, 2007 9:36 am PT
Review:  Portal by Valve will probably give birth to a new breed of puzzle games. It is built using the 
 Valve Source Engine's Latest version and comes couple with Half Life 2 series and TF2 in the Orange 
 Box. It can also be purchased alone on Steam. The game revolves around a gun that can open 2 rifts 
 in non metallic surfaces at any time. These rifts or portals are connected to each other and this 
 functionality can be used to do things or reach areas which, in a normal fps game, would be impossible. 
 The game has 19 chapters and then some bonus maps (don't forget the maps that will be out by the 
 mod community soon) which can keep your sitting in front of your computer screen for at least 5 
 hours depending on how fast you solve the puzzles. The game is only single player and has a twisted 
 sort of storyline. The synopsis is that you are an android in a scientific facility being told 
 by a computer to get through areas using just the portal gun. From the start you get the feeling 
 that something is wrong and the feeling persists to the end and as the plot unveils itself you 
 begin to feel more and more confused. This is the beauty of the storyline, you never really find 
 out what exactly is going on at a given moment. When I finished it my words were psyco game :d 
 but in truth it's a true puzzle game and will make you think in ways you have never though before.
 
  The game isn't really a technical achievement when it comes to graphics. It uses the Source engine 
 which is rather outdated when compared with UE3 or CRYENGINE 2 but the rest of the game more than 
 makes up for this shortcoming. The voice acting is amazing (and incredibly creepy) and voice effects 
 are also very interesting. The level design is extremely mind boggling and will probably give you 
 a headache if you play the whole game in one sitting and some of the puzzles will make you wanna 
 kill yourself (good thing or bad thing :D?) .
  All in all portal is a remarkable game and definitely a huge step for the genre. It is one of those 
 games that prove that FPS games aren't just mindless shooters filled with extreme violence and 
 if valve has any plans for Portal 2, I'd say bring 'em on :) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MichaelMorbid
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 13, 2008 6:01 am PT
Review:  We're a big fan of the unwilling test subject genre. Waking up in a room without knowing what's 
 going on, very reminiscent of Saw , Cube, and some of the Twilight Zone episodes. Added in with 
 the mysterious Aperture Science and an AI of HAL like proportions, and your story is set.
  
  Overall the game's difficulty is pretty challenging without becoming impossible. We're no Gordon 
 Freeman, but we were able to figure out some of the more complex puzzles. Grasping the concept 
 of flinging takes a little while to wrap your head around.
  
  The sound is wonderful. It's mostly just the environmental sounds of the background. Think there 
 was a little techno put in there like HL2 did during some firefights. Graphics are top notch. That 
 should go without saying, but it deserves repeating.
  
  There isn't much of a downside with this game. I suppose replayablity will become an issue after 
 completing the game, the achievements, and the advanced maps. It's a linear game in terms of story. 
 Some puzzles may have multiple ways of solving them, but it doesn't effect the game. It's a short 
 game, but that's not necessarily bad. If it had went any longer with just the story provided it 
 might feel repetitive. There aren't a lot of characters in the game, if there were more it would 
 have only gotten better. Save it for a sequel hopefully.
  
  Yeah... so... great game, great gun, what more do you need? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: amacias20_12
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 17, 2007 1:55 pm PT
Review:  Thats right very fresh air id say, portal is game where u have to solve puzzles with a potal divice 
 that can place both an entry and exit portal and using physics not only on objects but also on 
 yourself, if that doesnt sounds like much the game really shines in its humor and on its holy crap 
 no way factor its really a exelent and fresh game that im sure u will enjoy playin. Graphics are 
 good and u can do all kind of crazy stuff with the portal gun my only complain is that its kinda 
 short unless u make all then Bonus maps wich r quite hard compared with the normal ones. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NosmoKing1984
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 17, 2007 12:06 pm PT
Review:  I saw a lot of previews before this was released and thought it looked interesting but I wasn't 
 too sure I'd enjoy it. When I'd realised it was out, I decided to buy just Portal and was pleasantly 
 surprised.
  The game had far more than what I was expecting, I just thought it was going to be a simple puzzle 
 game with nothing too deep or challenging in it. Which while most of the puzzles were quite run 
 of the mill and I could see a solution pretty quickly, it still felt challenged. In the later levels 
 you tend to get more devious puzzles and puzzles linked together, so instead of the main objective 
 being get that box on that button to complete, you have get that energy ball there to open a door 
 to get that box to put on a button I saw 4 rooms back .
  The game really picks up once you get the double portal upgrade, this is when the puzzles get interesting. 
 In some of the puzzles, the solution is easily figured out but executing can be a little trickier, 
 especially when a button is timed and you only have a short time to do something.
  Also what gives this some more replayability is that once you have completed the main story line, 
 you can go back and do some bonus levels that are similar to the ones played before, but with an 
 extra twist.
  Definitely worth a play though it is over far too quickly, I wasn't expecting it to be long but 
 it was shorter than I expected. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KamikazePower
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 17, 2007 9:20 am PT
Review:  This game completely blew me away... Its pretty rare for games to suck me into them, but Portal 
 managed to do it.
  
  The charming (and quite sexy sounding...) GLaDOS is from the beginning happily helping you on the 
 way, and commenting mostly everything you do - while she is constantly watching you through the 
 diffrent cameras on the walls. I didn't really know if I should feel spooked, happy or in love 
 with GLaDOS while running through the diffrent cold and lifeless experimental rooms.
  
  As soon as you get the portal gun, things start to get wild. You can pretty much do what you want, 
 and make up your own solutions to the puzzles. You can use chairs, cameras or other items in the 
 level to reach your goal. Although many of the challenges are quite simple, it get pretty hard 
 in the last few ones. But I still feel like this is only the warmup. There will be more games and 
 a LOT more level soon - either made by the community or by Valve.
  
  The story was great too, when you think of what kind of game this is, and its length. Lots of places 
 you really feel like your doing something the game didn't expect and I really love that. I kinda 
 felt like one of the people from the series Lost, that was slowly finding out the truth - very 
 exciting!
  
  Then there is the turrets that, if you do something to them, you will feel bad and sad about it 
 afterwards. And of course you will meet the legendary Weighted Companion Cube... I wont spoil anything 
 here, but I will just give a few words to my own Companion Cube: I love you and you will always 
 be in my heart. You were the best friend I ever had, and you never tried to stab me. And the cake 
 is not a lie.
  
  If the above didn't get you interested, I dont know what will. If you decide to try out Portal, 
 you will be playing the classic of the year.
  Yes it may be short, but its one of the funniest, most enjoyable gaming experiences I've had in 
 a while. And the end credits are the best I have ever seen in a game.
  
  (WARNING) You might actually need to use your brain while playing this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: popephred
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 17, 2007 3:39 am PT
Review:  I'm sure you have read the description of this game so I won't bore you with too many details. 
 The feel of the game was just right: the feeling of walking from one side of the portal to the 
 other is not for the weak-stomached, especially during some of the jumping challenges. This is 
 not a shooter. Your only weapon is you portal gun and your puzzle-solving ability. I really enjoyed 
 this game in that it held my attention and didn't want to let go. I knew this was a short game 
 and really wanted to get that cake.
  
  This game is certainly short if Valve intended to market it as a stand-alone game for $19.99. It 
 is well worth the price bundled with the other games in the Orange Box. While I was thrilled with 
 this game, I am not sure that this one idea would do well with a longer game. The portal gun is 
 certainly a great idea for use in other first-person shooter games (the traps you could set...) 
 The idea of a sequel to this game would not be far-fetched, but could not be more of the same, 
 which would be repetitious.
  
  Do play this game. It's a great diversion, won't take your entire weekend to play, and will help 
 you become more aware of your gaming environment. Thanks for the fun, Valve! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MacEb3
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 16, 2007 11:26 pm PT
Review:  I got this game originally just because it came with the box and didn't quite care. I gave it a 
 try and what I got what something completely amazing. It's short and sweet. Could be longer, but 
 I think it's genius. The relationship you have with 'the voice' is creepy and quite funny. I liked 
 this better than Episode 2 and I really enjoyed Episode 2 (way better than 1) . The ending is very 
 satisfying and leaves you wanting more. I like the way it ties into HL2 and can't wait to see where 
 they go with it. This is defiantly worth the buy. If you don't like solving puzzles and good clean 
 fun, then go play wow. Sorry, low blow, but seriously this game is great! [much 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gigaman299
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 9, 2007 4:41 pm PT
Review:  Portal is an innovative game where you are controlling the protagonist, Chell, through a test chamber 
 and eventually, the whole Aperture Science facility. Along the way, a humorous (and evil) robot 
 named GLaDOS will impede you. This game is all about surviving these test chambers, and ultimately 
 escaping from Aperture Science.
  
  The gameplay is simply revolutionary. I, personally, have only seen one game with portals, and 
 that was a mediocre game called Prey. In this game, you are able to shoot portals, go into a portal, 
 and exit through another portal. These portals are the main factor of this game, since the only 
 thing you can do is shoot portals, jump, crouch, and move. The Portal Gun is a vertasile piece 
 of machinery that can be used in many ways. For example, when Chell finds the Portal Gun (which 
 is pretty soon in the game) , she decides to pick up things with it. The difference lies between 
 this and the gravity gun is where you cannot shoot the things with the force of the gravity gun. 
 There are things to break, like turrets in the game (in which I will not explain how to destroy) , 
 there are puzzles to solve... The gameplay becomes increasingly difficult as your progress into 
 the game. Soon, you'll be going in circles over and over again to figure out what's going on and 
 how to do a certain thing. The main game is a little bit short though; a mere 3 to 5 hours of gameplay, 
 and you should be done. The atmosphere of this game is incredible. You will actually feel like 
 you are a test subject, in contrary to many other games. You will want to escape from the Aperture 
 Science laboratory, and you do not want to die. This game will make you THINK. It will force you 
 to think of creative methods to execute certain "moves". It will force you to think carefully, 
 and it will force you to be rational. Some things in this game are similar to Half-Life 2. However, 
 one major difference is that Chell has special shoes, which allow her to fall from any distance 
 without hurting herself (and in turn, taking damage or dying) . You'll find this necessary in many 
 areas of the game. It also makes use of the new Achievements section on Steam. You'll keep on trying 
 to complete all the achievements, which are definitely possible, albeit hard. Even after you complete 
 the main storyline game, there is a bonus maps mode, where you can try out new maps and choose 
 a section called "Challenges". I would personally like to see this concept developed upon in the 
 next game in the Half-life universe (which will probably be Half-Life 2 : Episode 3) .
  
  The graphics are spectacular. You can't doubt the Source Engine and its optimization techniques. 
 My video card is low end, and it can still play this game at medium settings. The Source Engine 
 thus far does not require Shader Model 3, and therefore, many computers can run it. I think it 
 detects whether your card supports Shader 1, 2, or 3, and optimizes accordingly. It is extremely 
 optimized compared to the Unreal 3 engine. Which engine is superior thus far; that is debatable. 
 The graphics, in general are crisp and clean. The environment is amazing. The Aperture Science 
 test chambers that you see will be shiny and clean, like you are in a simple environment. However, 
 sooner or later, you'll see what it really looks like... and it looks amazing. However, the Unreal 
 3 engine seems to provide much more detailed graphical experiences compared to the Source Engine; 
 better textures mainly. Don't let that dissuade you from this game, though. This game looks great, 
 although the motion blur is a little subtle.
  
  The music is nearly non-existent, except for the game end (and the song isn't bad, actually..) . 
 However, the robotic voice that guides you through the test chambers is awesome. Everything around 
 you is supposed to be quiet, until a funny little voice breaks out from invisible speakers, usually 
 goading you, insulting you, or in some cases, complimenting you. The sounds really generate a feel 
 for the environment, but there are some recycled sounds from Half-Life 2 that could be changed.
 
  
  This game is one of those games that you will decide to keep playing, over and over again until 
 there's a sequel. Most people who like puzzles will LOVE this game, and people who prefer simple 
 shooters will find this complex and amusing. This game isn't for everyone, but it's for anyone 
 looking for a good game to pass the time for a pretty lengthy time period. Overall, I'd give this 
 game an 8. A 10 for creativity, a 9.5 for graphics, 9 for sound, and 5 for length. Even though 
 it's such a short game, I'm going to be playing this game for a looong time.
  
  
  the cake is a lie
  the cake is a lie
  the cake is a lie ... help 
::::::

::::::
UserName: t3ch82
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 15, 2007 2:48 pm PT
Review:  This is a MUST try for everyone. I will say however, there is only 20 straight levels, and some 
 bonus levels. The game plays QUICK. It took me maybe an hour to beat the whole game, but i loved 
 every minute of it. Be ready because portal opened up *pun* something never seen before this. While 
 the idea is simple it plays very well and is extremely addicting. I've never been a puzzle person 
 myself however this caught on fast, enjoyably fast.
  
  You have 2 fire types. Left button is a blue portal, right button is a red portal. What goes in 
 blue comes out red, and likewise. Watch the trailer on here for examples of the game, its just 
 like that.
  
  This is not a hard game, this isn't even a game that will keep you busy for hours. This is however 
 a game that will have you telling all your friends about and a game you MUST try.
  
  I cant wait till they are more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Colton48
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 15, 2007 11:25 am PT
Review:  This game is another amazing game its hard at times but very fun.
  
  Graphics:
  wow what can I say? the graphics are so crystal clear especially when you shoot the portals and 
 look through them don't thik there is any thing they could have added at this point.
  
  Sound: Another amazing part of this game the sound is very good on my
  5.1 system the voices 
 gun and every thing sounds so amazing its just awesome.
  
  Gameplay: Its very hard at time don't give up there is always a way.
  It becomes very hard at 
 times and can give you a head ache.
  the portals are what mess you up when you see your self go through and portal and your going through 
 the portal at the same time.
  
  Controls:
  the controls are very good they are just like Half Life's controls so if you played Half Life Or 
 Counter Strike you can play this game with no problem.
  
  thanks for reading this review have a great day! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alfarjamie
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 15, 2007 11:07 am PT
Review:  The game was great i mean, this hasnt been done before, but the fact is. The game is very short, 
 i complete it in 2-4 hours, It took me no longer than 5-10 mins for each puzzle, and if i was stuck 
 only 5 mins to figure it out, the game was also very short. And doesnt go beyond portaling to places, 
 knocking turrets over, putting energy balls in recievers and boxes on switches. I would like to 
 see free downloadable maps and extension to the game, this game certainly wouldnt be worth money 
 for extra content, as the game is unbelivably short, there is no difficulty selection. And advanced 
 tests are just a excuse, theyre the same thing redesigned so its really not a huge design project 
 it makes me wonder how they spent so long doing it as well as the missing things from the trailer 
 (the previewed parts in the trailers) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ddost
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 14, 2007 6:54 am PT
Review:  Portal is absolutely brilliant, this game is brainfood. It is a little short, but these are the 
 type of game-mechanics that allow you to really interact within in a 3-dimensional world, and open 
 up numerous posibilties in the next generation of games. Maybe at some point Valve might release 
 a level-editor so players can create their own traps.
  
  The storyline reminded me immediately of the movie Cube where people are trapped inside a never 
 ending box. In Portal you follow the trail of a previous test-subject and go behind the scenes 
 of the rooms and traps. The voice commentary is very funny at times.
  
  The sound and graphics are excellent and the game should run nice and smooth on most machines. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: purplemonkey87
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 14, 2007 5:31 am PT
Review:  Portal is a game in which you fire two portals to achieve certain results - one destination portal 
 (the orange one) and one departure portal (the blue one) .
  
  The entire game is based on using these portals to navigate your way around the Aperture Labs and 
 solving puzzles.
  
  I found that the first two thirds of the game were very cleverly made and fun, but the last third 
 tended to be quite repetitive - as if they realised they'd run out of ideas and used the same puzzles 
 but on different levels.
  
  The dialogue in the game is very funny, and it definately gives you a chuckle after a confusing 
 level.
  
  I highly recommend this game to anyone, you don't need to have played any other Half Life game 
 to have fun with it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VMAN-Vercetti
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 14, 2007 4:35 am PT
Review:  Portal, a game I never thought to see from Valve.
  Still, I have to admit, it was a fun ride!
  
  Basically, Portal is a game in which you play 
 with speed, momentum, trajectory and Portals!
  
  The entire ideea is based on you waking up inside the Aperture Science facility, in which a female 
 robotic voice comes up and guides you throughout series of unique and fun training courses.
  
  The physics engine is a monster! I love it! If you've played Prey, you know how portals work. 
 Well, in Portal, that ideea is brought to a perfected state.
  
  This entire madness with portals though won't be enough to satisfy everyone, as the game is very 
 short. From the moment I've started the game, I've played 5 hours non-stop and finished it.
  
  The sense of humour isn't lacking at all. The robotic voice will tell you some pretty neat 
 jokes :P
  
  So, as that voice would say ... in layman's terms, speedy thing goes in, speedy thing goes up , 
 I say to you: Become a speedy thing yourself and hurry on to the store and buy it :-) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Screamteam411
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 13, 2007 1:00 pm PT
Review:  I must hand it to Valve...
  
  Why? For creating a game that is not only amazingly innovative, but one that non-gamers can enjoy 
 as well, of course. Portal is the first game I've seen in a long time that truly makes an innovative 
 experience that I can't sit and describe as a combination of these two games or a game of this 
 genre with another genre's twist. It's something unique, and I commend them thoroughly for that. 
 I suppose technically the game could be called less innovative as it's ideas all spring from Narbacular 
 Drop, a game created by seven students at DigiPen Institute of Technology, but considering Valve 
 hired those students so that they could create a professional, polished spiritual successor to 
 that game, I'd say Valve's not really ripping anybody off.
  
  The game's concepts are amazingly simple. You are a test subject at Aperture Science Enrichment 
 Center. The game is based around portals (go figure) that you are able to shoot from your Aperture 
 Science Handheld Portal Device, something I (as well as most people) prefer to call the portal 
 gun. You are put through various tests that require you to use your portal gun in a tremendous 
 number of ways.
  
  The game seemed slightly counterintuitive at first, and the first time I stepped through a portal 
 and came out somewhere else I was thoroughly disoriented. I was able to quickly pick up the controls 
 though, and I was jumping through portals with ease within a little while. There are a certain 
 number of concepts that you learn to master with your portal gun as you progress through the game 
 that become useful a number of times, such as launching yourself through the air by placing a portal 
 high on a wall and then another on the ground below your wall portal, falling through the floor 
 BACK into the portal on the floor, and then using that falling momentum to fly forwards. The concept 
 sounds complicated, but it's easy to get the hang of, especially with the Steam engine's stellar 
 physics.
  
  One wonderful aspect is that every level is set up in such a way that you feel like an absolute 
 genius for being able to finish them, but at the same time you never sit there frustrated and stuck.
 
  
  The graphics are top-notch steam-engine-powered stuff, but the game really shines with its atmosphere, 
 especially in the second half of the game. There are no living things in the game at all, and the 
 only seemingly human interaction you ever have is when the eerily robotic voice of a woman comes 
 over the loudspeaker to guide you, make jokes, or encourage you. It is also nice that the jokes 
 do not fall flat and you can sit there and smile at them as you play.
  
  The only shortcoming I have seen so far is that the replay value is not all there. I have played 
 the game for around six hours so far, and I have played through the story mode one and a half times. 
 Each of the six main levels that you play with your full portal gun (both blue and orange portal-making 
 capabilities) can be replayed either as an advanced level or a challenge level as well. The advanced 
 levels are horrifically difficult, and I have yet to see any possible way to finish the last three. 
 The challenge levels come in three flavors: least steps, least portals, and least time. There are 
 goals for each of the three flavors that you can be awarded with an achievement for completing. 
 The achievements also help extend replay value by requiring you to do certain tasks to fulfill 
 all of them, such as falling 30,000 feet, committing fratricide, or beating every advanced level.
 
  
  It is nice that Valve made the game only $20 as a standalone download on Steam, and that they included 
 it as part of the $50 Orange Box, which is the best value in gaming I have seen in years. This 
 really helps justify the purchase of the game despite the poor replay value. Hopefully in the future, 
 Valve will let the community build levels for other people to play. Honestly, I cannot see why 
 they would not.
  
  The game's short length will probably stop it from winning game of the year anywhere, but Valve 
 certainly made sure that the game is a wonderful experience for anyone of any age and any gaming 
 skill level. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bakkoda24
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 13, 2007 12:58 pm PT
Review:  Glancing through my PC Gamer magazine, I saw a preview for Portal. I read the article and looked 
 at the picture and deemed it pointless and a waste. But, in an effort to waste time, I downloaded 
 the demo and was simply amazed. It's not merely an FPS where you run around blasting limbs and 
 heads off. It requires thought and strategy. I would say the most exciting part of the game is 
 in fact, the Portals. The idea of shooting portals from a gun to launch yourself across a room, 
 over walls and trenches, dropping cubes onto enemy droids, and using it to simply mess around is 
 never-ending joy. If you have ever held a mirror in alignment with another, you can see an infinite 
 line of mirrors. Well the designers put that little idea in the game too. The narration from the 
 system voice ( the director that talks to you before and after you complete a floor) adds in humor 
 that you don't get in most games now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: I_AM_G_O_D
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 13, 2007 11:37 am PT
Review:  Ok, I'll start with the good, because there isn't much. The game runs on the Half-Life 2 engine, 
 so if you have played HL2, The graphics, sound, controls ect are basically the same. The game ran 
 stable on my machine, with no performance issues, most settings were on high. Though it did crash 
 on me once. No big deal. The user interface works as expected, and I had no problems with it. Valve 
 has really nailed the way save games work better I think than most other games I have seen. In 
 addition to the autosaves, you have several quicksave slots that run in chronicalogical order, 
 so if, for example you were to hit your quicksave key by accident, as I did, instead of the quickload 
 when I had fallen into a death trap, you can simply load the last quicksave before. Very smart. 
 And last I must give big credit to the concept of portal. I cant really say I've ever played a 
 game quite like it. And though it really annoyed me every second I played it, I dont regret it, 
 it was worth the experience.
  
  Now the bad. This game annoyed the living crap out of me. Constantly. The computer voice is popping 
 in all the time, blah, blah, blah, and its a digitized voice, so its very raspy and annoying. But 
 the worst part is that it tells you absolutely NOTHING worth hearing. Its all just garbage, distracting, 
 and very annoying. The gameplay is extremely simple, and I put an emphisis on extremely. Of the 
 roughly 20 levels, about 15 took less than 2 minutes to complete. The next 4 took about 4 minutes 
 to complete, and the last level was a bit long taking about 15 to 20 minutes to complete. The whole 
 game took me roughly 90 minutes to complete. This is suprisingly short for a Valve game. The game 
 is based around a series of physics puzzles where you must manipulate your enviroment to get to 
 the exit. Sounds pretty boring doesnt it? Well it is, very. You have a 'device' which opens a portal 
 in a wall, floor, or ceiling. in which you can travel. The device can open two differnt portals 
 at a time, and they lead to each other, so you can travel through them back and forth. When you 
 open another portal, the other dissapears, this enables you to move about your enviroment in many 
 different ways. However most of the game is, put that box on that button to open that door ect, 
 ect, ect. Over and over throuhout the game, basically you do the same things. Each puzzle is a 
 little harder than the next, but only the last two took any real thought as to what to do next. 
 Most of the time it is quite obvious. Valve included some pictograms, I guess to give you some 
 idea of what to expect. Some made sense, some absolutely did not. Like a guy bending to drink from 
 a fountain with a slash though it. Like dont drink from a fountain. Well there isnt any. Maybe 
 I misunderstood. In any case the pictograms dont help a single bit, and only seem to serve as a 
 distraction.
  
  There are no other characters in the game to interact with. The only dialog is from the annoying 
 computer voice. You do get to see yourself though. Some chick with a ponytail walking around on 
 her tipy toes barefoot, with some strange straps on the back of her legs. weird. Anyway, there 
 is NO HUD, at all whatsoever, and although you can die, you can never be sure how much damage you 
 have taken. You character never speaks, one thing that has annoyed me about the Half-Life games 
 forever. The game also seems rather large for such a short game, being 5 gig installed. I am quite 
 torn for rating this game. If it was based solely on concept, graphics and sound, I would give 
 it a 9.5. On the other hand, if I based it on the bad elements alone, the extremely short gameplay, 
 extremely annoying elements in the game, a total lack of storyline, and no interaction from any 
 NPC characters, among other things. I would give it a 3.
  
  But, all thing considered. I think it deserves a solid 6.5. The end is ramped up for a sequal, 
 so maybe that will be better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shedding
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 13, 2007 2:42 am PT
Review:  This game was short.. that is the negative. But a game that keeps me up at 4:00AM, and just listening 
 to the background voice and the eerie atmosphere... that is what makes this game. I could care 
 less for a game that doesn't seem real.. but in this case, I did feel like I was in a laboratory. 
 not knowing WTF was going on. It feels a bit like the movie The cube . The ending was absolutely 
 fantastic. The best ending I have seen in a while.. I don't think i have seen a better ending. 
 Some questions remain unanswered. Btw, this game was the ONLY game that has made me feel nauseaous... 
 worth every penny. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: br0kenrabbit
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 12, 2007 10:48 pm PT
Review:  First off, let me say I was at level 19 before I really felt like the game was starting. The principle 
 of this game is incredible, it's execution isn't, however. Sure it works well, has funny dialog, 
 and a great credits song, but this game is like being served a piece of moist and delicious cake... on 
 a spoon: it's just a taste, but there's really nothing to dig into.
  
  A dozen more levels would have brought this game up quite a few points, and I realize that community-made 
 levels are coming (on the PC, at least) , but Valve should really know better than to skimp out 
 on something great like this. The first 15 levels are training, the next three aren't that difficult, 
 and the last one isn't all that hard, either. If they were going to release with so few levels, 
 at least they could be longer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nomadski69
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 12, 2007 9:10 pm PT
Review:  Played it, completed it very quickly, and its left an indelible mark on me of what games can be 
 like at their very very best. I wasn't even going to play this game as i was frustrated at being 
 forced to get the Orange Box purely for Ep2. Only the individual prices made me buy it in the end.
 
  
  My god im glad i did. Episode who? I'm waiting for Portal 2 now, not Ep3.
  
  To be fair, the game was far from perfect. It was waay too short, and the levels themselves didn't 
 get large or complex really until number 18. But there wasn't a single level that went by (even 
 the basic training missions early on) which didn't make me laugh.
  
  What? Laugh? This may be the first game ive ever played that has had as good a sense of humour 
 as the very best tv shows, or movies. GLaDos (sic?) was disturbing yet was (for me) the entire 
 focal point of the game, rather than the portals themselves. Everything i did, i did to advance 
 to the next exceptionally written, and performed piece of comedy genius uttered from her detached 
 voice. Too many superb quotes to even begin to replicate, and so perfectly written that to misquote 
 would be adisservice to them.
  
  Props out to the voice actor (Ellen Mclain?) whose delivery was perfect, even though synthesised, 
 as GLaDos. Even the turrets she gave voice to had more character than most 100 hour+ RPG characters. 
 She was helped no end by a wonderful script, but most gamers know a good script is usually let 
 down by sub par acting in games.
  
  And then the finale, more classic lines, an end boss part puzzle, part action, all comedy. I didn't 
 want to finish it for fear of missing out on some one liners. Upon finishing, and a short sequence 
 showing, once and for all, that the cake WASN'T a lie, we hear Still Alive . Honestly. Genius.
 
  
  I want to personally hug every individual who was part of making this game. Its a game i will return 
 to for many months to come, to brighten up my day as winter draws near, and the early nights creep 
 up. Gameplay used to be everything, but the fantastic puzzles and gameplay in this game come second 
 to GLaDos, the weighted companion cube, and those turrets. This game has personality like no other.
 
  
  This game was genius.
  
  :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheBeardedGnome
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 12, 2007 6:30 pm PT
Review:  To begin, this game is like no other (exception given to Narbacular Drop) . There is no other game 
 like it. This is the perfect cross between the standard FPS and a decent puzzle game. The one complaint 
 I share with most people is that this game is definitely too short, however the dialog is absolutely 
 perfect. This is the most amusing game I've ever played. About half the dialog had me literally 
 laughing out loud. There's even cake! How can you go wrong? We can only hope for new levels once 
 the modders get a hold of this.
  
  If the levels aren't difficult enough for you, there are bonus levels. Although these are just 
 previous levels, they had changed them enough to make them quite difficult.
  
  Even the soundtrack, subtle as it is, fits in perfectly. This game has got to have the best ending 
 credits and theme I've ever seen. Ever.
  
  I highly recommend this game to anyone, especially anyone who wants something different from the 
 standard FPS or puzzle game. Play this game!
  
  R. I. P. Weighted Companion Cube.
  (You're curious now, aren't you?) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eltodd124
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 12, 2007 1:17 pm PT
Review:  It took me 4 hours to play through the main storyline, I can't wait to play through again with 
 the commentary on, and there is also the advanced levels and time trials. Not to mention potental 
 map pack and mod releases from the community . Considering I bought it with the Orange box, and 
 essentially paid less than 10 dollars for the game, it was a GREAT value.
  
  Using the portal gun, you make your way past various obstacles. The setting is a research facility, 
 where you are the lab rat, 'testing' the portal gun. Solving the puzzles was fun, and satisfying.
 
  
  Graphics, and sound are as solid as anything from Valve. I run Vista on a Quad core with an 8500, 
 and have had no issues with the game.
  
  I can't recommend this game enough. The story is intriguing and ambiguous, and will keep you guessing, 
 even after the end of the game. Essentially, you find yourself pitted against GLaDos, an A. I. that 
 seems to have some of the same psychotic quirks as HAL. The ending is easily one of my all time 
 favorites.
  
  We do what we must, because we can 
::::::

::::::
UserName: h3rb
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 12, 2007 9:20 am PT
Review:  Portal is funny. Really funny. The writing behind it is almost as great as the concept behind the 
 portal gun itself. As a lab rat, trying to work your way through a series of tests, you are guided 
 through your experience by a computerized voice. It's non-stop laughter and mind-boggling portal 
 action from start to finish.
  
  The idea behind using a device that creates portals is simply brilliant, and that alone is a must-see 
 experience.
  
  Only complaint... it's really short. You'll be done before you know it, but it's still worth every 
 penny, whether you buy the Orange Box ($45) or purchase Portal as a standalone game ($20) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cfilorvy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 12, 2007 5:06 am PT
Review:  From the trailer we all knew what the game play of Portal was going to be, and I was a bit afraid 
 that there wouldn't be much more to it. But boy, did they surprise me!
  
  This game is the funniest one I've ever played. The whole love-hate relationship with the ever 
 present female computer voice is extremely well done and really drives the story (yep, there is 
 a story, a pity it's that short) ! The end and closing titles song is hilarious and very satisfying 
 (cake! finally) !
  
  The game play is easy to understand, with a perfect learning curve (as expected from a Valve game) . 
 The puzzles in the main game don't get extremely difficult, so you won't be struggling for hours 
 over a single puzzle. Plus: it's highly addictive!
  
  I would recommend this game to everyone, it's a classic in the make! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shanesnake
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 12, 2007 4:42 am PT
Review:  This is such a great, innovate game, that I clapped when I completed it... and maybe even peed 
 a little due to the pure joy I was experiencing.
  
  I'm GLaD I had a chance to participate in the study... and I guarantee you will too.
  
  The 
 cake is a lie.
  The cake is a lie.
  The cake is a lie.
  The cake is a lie.
  The cake is a lie.
  The cake is a lie.
  The cake is a lie.
  The cake is a lie.
  The cake 
 is a lie.
  The cake is a lie.
  The cake is a lie.
  
  I'm still alive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MasterInsan0
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 11, 2007 8:15 pm PT
Review:  Portal is an amazing experience. I really have no better way to describe the brilliance of this 
 game other than amazing. I went into the game expecting it to be a tiny little part of the monstrous 
 Orange Box, and came out thinking that it was the main attraction.
  
  Essentially, Portal is a puzzle game. Sure, you can die, but the biggest part of the game is devoted 
 to figuring out the various puzzles presented to you by the omnipresent AI. I was astounded by 
 this, since the engine it is built on, the Source engine, has been responsible for action-fests 
 like Counter-Strike: Source, Half-Life 2, and Team Fortress 2. Don't get me wrong, there are action-packed 
 parts -- in fact, the balance between puzzle solving and action in this game is pristine. However, 
 the definition of action is a little different, namely in that it doesn't mean shooting. You never 
 possess a gun, only the Aperture Science Hand-held Portal Device. In other words, the Portal Gun.
 
  
  The portal gun in itself could be a game. There's so much fun stuff you can do with it, like creating 
 an infinite loop, or propelling yourself across the level. Many of these fun things are part of 
 the game, making them even more enjoyable.
  
  However, the portal gun isn't what makes this game unique. It's the atmosphere and the humor. This 
 game has the best sense of humor in any game I've ever played, ever. I won't spoil any of it for 
 you.
  
  Why am I still rambling on? Buy the Orange Box, or at the very least, by Portal -- you can get it 
 separately on Steam if you want. I recommend the entire Orange Box though, since you get three 
 EXCELLENT games for the price of one. Unless you hate yourself, buy it. If you hate yourself, buy 
 all three games separately so Valve gets more money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sgmcdaniel2000
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 11, 2007 10:01 am PT
Review:  I thought I was just going to play for 15min before I had to go to bed, but at 3 in the morning 
 I just couldnt stop! I wanted my CAKE!!! This has got to be one of the best games ever!
  
  I Finished Portal last night and all I can say is WOW. It has to be one of the greatest games I 
 have played in a long time. It is sooo creative and is willing to make fun of itself. I was laughing 
 so hard I could hardly play. I really do hope they keep games like this coming out. A real breath 
 of fresh air in the first person genre. Definitely would recommend it to anyone who likes games!
 
  
  It was a little on the short side, but really, really addicting. Valve sure knows how to keep me 
 wanting more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fairlypriced
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 11, 2007 1:57 am PT
Review:  Portal maybe overshadowed by the other great games included in the Orange Box but it should not 
 be overlooked. The great original gameplay will get you racking your brains trying to figure out 
 puzzles and the clever use of physics will make you laugh and cheer at the solutions.
  
  You start off with nothing but the ability to walk and jump. You are first introduced to portals 
 as they methodically move from one location to another by themselves. This eases you into the game 
 as all you have to worry about is timing. Once you have this mastered and you get through the first 
 puzzle you move on to using switches and bricks. However the game really doesn't start until you 
 get the portal gun. Again valve pace things well by initially giving you half of the portal gun. 
 The first part creates blue portals for you to enter and you exit through the predefined yellow 
 portals.
  
  Once you've mastered the blue portals you receive the 2nd piece of the gun and then the fun begins. 
 You can create both blue and yellow portals. Both serve as entrance or exit so it doesn't matter 
 which order you place them or which colour goes where. The complexity of the puzzles grows which 
 each level. Soon you find not all surfaces can have portals placed on them, you have to time entering 
 a portal so you land on moving platforms and in many cases you are in actual danger of dying with 
 from being shot, poisoned or burnt. The most mind-boggling concept to master is that of momentum. 
 If you create a portal on a vertical wall and then create another one off the end of a very long 
 drop and then jump.... You will fly out the portal on the vertical wall with the same speed/momentum 
 as you entered the one you jumped into. This enables you to make amazing leaps across voids that 
 seem to big to cross.
  
  The overall visuals are not anything new or special but look pleasant. This is necessary as too 
 many distractions could add to the difficulty greatly. By keeping it simple you can focus on what 
 is important in the puzzle. The sound is again simple and familiar to Half-life veterans. However, 
 they're is some pumping music to get you're adrenaline going when you reach boss battles.
  
  From a description a game with no weapons and plenty of puzzle solving may not appeal to some. 
 However, try it and you'll love it. This will be fun for Half-life fans and Puzzle game players 
 alike. There are a few subtle references to the half life world - such as computers with black 
 mesa on the screen etc. but for the most part this is a stand-alone product that requires no past 
 knowledge of Half-life and it's various episodes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Doran
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 10, 2007 9:15 pm PT
Review:  There are spoilers in this review. Don't read if you haven't played or don't really care.
  
  
  
  Again, spoilers.
  
  
  
  I loved Portal. Right from the get-go, Valve oh-so 
 cleverly introduces you, one-at-a-time, to portals, how to time them right, and then gives you 
 control over one of them, and then two of them. You're not so sure why you're doing this experiment. 
 Maybe it's the detached, female AI that politely pushes you along, who occasionally (and eventually, 
 often) threatens you. GLaDOS, the disembodied voice brilliantly played by Ellen McLain, reminds 
 me of what SHODAN must have been like to the fortunates who have played System Shock 2. I am not 
 one of them, so my comparison is probably not accurate. GLaDOS moves from instructor, to observer, 
 to intimidation, to outright attacker, and finally to... singer. Yes, singer. The end credits sequence 
 was a marvelous reward.
  
  The last level takes up half the game, easily. I'm not so sure if I can call it one level... you 
 get glimpses of the Enrichment Center's seedy guts and underlevels on a few early stages, preparing 
 you for when you finally dive head-on into them. The cake is a lie... Sure...
  
  Also, the connection you find between the Aperture Science Enrichment Center and the Black Mesa 
 Research Facility is a neat cameo for Black Mesa. It looks like both meet a similar end too.
  
  But, sadly, Portal ends. And save for a few ramped-up advanced levels and challenges, there's 
 nothing else to do but play through it again with the developer commentaries activated (again, 
 Ellen McLain is great on these) .
  
  I gave Portal a high score because I know Valve will soon release new levels on Steam. Plus, it 
 seems that they'll be letting us create our own levels.
  
  REALLY?! YES!
  
  Portal is a bargain if you get it with The Orange Box. Now to play Episode Two and find out what 
 this connection is between the two games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Night_stalker01
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 10, 2007 4:39 pm PT
Review:  Everything about this game is amazing and innovative. You take control of and unknown woman, and 
 are sent through training courses to test out the newly developed portal gun. However, things don't 
 go as planned and you must take action to escape from the facility. I will say no more of the plot.
 
  
  It's been a while since a game with such innovation has come around. There is no killing or exploding 
 things in this game, just portals. You are presented with a variety of obstacles you must overcome 
 by creating portals which you can walk into, and come out somewhere else (location of your choice, 
 providing the surface is not metal) .
  
  I'll be honest though, the standard campaign is rather easy. It's the advanced levels that really 
 get your thinking. Not to mention the game is terribly short; I beat the full game and all the 
 advanced levels in 4 hours (approximately) .
  
  Graphics are done very well I thought. I'm running it on my new PC, and I jacked up the settings 
 so everything looks crystal clear and very well-polished.
  
  The amazing gameplay is also backed up by humour as well. The robotic lady talking to you makes 
 wise cracks about cake, death, disintegration and the like. This game has some strange obsession 
 with cake, but it's hilarious.
  
  And once you beat the game, you're treated to a very amusing song at the credits. Trust me, you'll 
 want to hear it.
  
  Summary: Amazing gameplay and humour, just too bad the game is over before it really gets started. 
 It really is one of those games that you have to play to understand it's beauty. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mbashour
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 10, 2007 2:28 pm PT
Review:  Very innovative game. Most of the maps are extremely straightforward and easy. There's really only 
 2 or 3 maps that took more than try to accomplish. Total game time at around 1hr 5 minutes. Could 
 have been so much more. There are a few hidden areas and the song at the end is amusing ( that 
 was a joke ) . The atmosphere is interesting. It makes you wonder what went on in this facility. 
 Hopefully it ends up getting linked to Half-Life in some way. Besides the easiness and shortness, 
 it's still an entertaining game (for the hour it lasts) . At least I have Episode 2 and TF2 (which 
 are both great, btw) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ytifle
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 10, 2007 1:56 pm PT
Review:  It introduces you on a Aperture Science Experiment, with very good physics, and impressive results.
 
  
  Far more than the just casual puzzle is a deep story that can be found in hidden parts on the map, 
 and that can make you think for a while!
  
  It aslo has a more long than expected story, and a lot of possibitities with the HL saga.
  
 
  A personal recommendation is that you visit the portal aperture science website, (and type, login, 
 portal, portal and play a bit with the apply, then at the end type thecakeisalie) wen you see the 
 website even more things show up. I. E, if you dont see the website, you would not care about what 
 GlaDOS mean, and the relaxation vault, and who has gone before you (im smashing my brain with this)
 
  
  The worst part is the camara hardness when doing rather complex jumps, BUT IT ROCKS HARD!
  
 
  Valve, come on and give us some more!!!!!!
  
  Also, for the most gamers, you have additional puzzles, and the possibility of adding more (valve??) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skank88
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 10, 2007 12:50 pm PT
Review:  I really loved this game, even though I didn't expect much of it. People say that it's too short, 
 but I think that it's just long enough.. any longer and the gameplay might become boring for someone 
 who just wants to finish the game. If you want to have more gameplay, it won't be long before there 
 are engaging custom maps.
  
  One thing that really made the game is the humour provided by the Aperture Computer. Just the credit 
 sequence is enough reward for finishing the game, not to mention the entertaining boss fight. The 
 game isn't particularly hard, but it isn't too easy either. The challenges that you play outside 
 of the campaign add some difficulty to the game and they are entirely optional, so you can choose 
 whether you just want to enjoy the setting, or whether you want to truly play the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blaggart
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 10, 2007 12:48 pm PT
Review:  Oh yes, it's here. And then all of a sudden it's gone... Fantastic premise, well made and it has 
 so much potential but it really is just a little on the short side. Hopefully they'll be some sort 
 extra content coming out soon, it will be interesting to see what people can come up with, as well 
 as the masses of user videos that are guaranteed to be coming out soon enough.
  
  The challenges are not the most difficult but they do ask for a little thought every now and again, 
 especially towards the end of the game where you've got to be quick on the portal throwing. Whilst 
 it is a very short game it is fun, maybe not as challenging as it could be but even despite that 
 it is good fun and I think many people wouldn't appreciate it for the entertainment side if it 
 was too hard.
  
  In summary, yes it is a good game but you can tell it's an add-on to a larger package. Definitely 
 worth a look, however brief it may be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snipasr
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 10, 2007 11:07 am PT
Review:  Portal came out to the world at 12:00 am PST (3:00 am for me) . I decided to wait up to take my 
 long awaited shot at this fantasticly creative game. You start off as some woman thats basicly 
 a lab rat for some portal project. You dont get the portal gun right away though, you start with 
 nothing and it is essentially a tutorial for the controls and game mechanics for the first few 
 levels (but if you have played ANY of the past Half-Life games then you should already know all 
 the buttons) . You soon get the portal gun but you can only control one side of the portal and the 
 other entrance/exit is made for you. a few levels later you get control of both portals and this 
 is where the puzzles get much harder. But really none of the puzzles are really that hard. No harder 
 than some of the puzzles in any of the other Half-Life games. There are only 19 levels to the main 
 part of the game, and I was able to bea all 19 levels in just over 1 hour. But then that unlocks 
 more Advanced levels on the main menu. I am yet to complete these.
  
  But one thing that makes you want to play this are the acheivements you can unlocks. As far as 
 i know unlocking these really amount to nothing buts its fun to see them slowly become acheived 
 and it makes you want to play the game over and over until you get them all. I pre-ordered the 
 orangebox so I also got to play the Team Fortress 2 beta, which blew me away with how fun it was. 
 I recoment to EVERYONE to get the Orange Box and start playing these fantastic games right away! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FreyarHunter
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 10, 2007 5:32 am PT
Review:  Portal is a wonderful game utilizing a rather new way of dealing with space which of course gave 
 Portal it's name. The use of portals allow manipulations of objects and more in ways that you wouldn't 
 originally think of doing.
  
  One of the best things about Portal is that it does make a huge emphasis on the physics rather 
 than combat itself, despite elements of 'lite combat' being present through the use of turrets. 
 This allows more of a way to take a look at things objectively and try to make an educated guess 
 with the physics as opposed to taking the game by pure force.
  
  While the main character you play is silent, you do have two other people that prove to be very 
 interesting. GLaDOS, the AI supporting your testing, and the little turrets that prove to be very 
 interesting. While not wanting to spoil too much, these turrets do give you a sense of a conflicting 
 feelings towards them between harmless and deadly.
  
  The only real problem with Portal is purely it's length. It only lasts about an hour and a half 
 assuming you don't get stuck trying to deal with momentum. However that is offset slightly with 
 goal-oriented puzzles and more advanced versions of the test chambers available once you complete 
 the basic in the story. On top of that, you also have a commentary available from the developers 
 and even the voice actor of GLaDOS which proves to give a very interesting insight to what these 
 designers were thinking giving a better appreciation for what they had done. The achievement system 
 Valve has been implementing makes a show here, giving marks for various accomplishments in-game, 
 however the requirements to unlock them are viable, thus ruining the fun in finding them.
  
  While short, and of course only part of the Orange Box, Portal is a very fun, funny, and physically 
 (in-game sense) intense game. This is a game that has been celebrated, and it should continue to 
 be celebrated as there are even hints of a Portal 2 in the commentary. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
