-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Port Royale 2
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/portroyale2/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct  4, 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.3
Critic Score: 7.4, 21 Review (s)
User Score: 8.3, 463 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ascaron Entertainment GmbH
Genre: Historic Real-Time...
Date:     Sep 13, 2004 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Port Royale 2 might focus more on building shipping cartels than sea battles and swordplay, but 
 its brilliantly realized design is more than just number crunching. 

  All the attention being paid toward the imminent release of the remake of Sid Meier's classic Pirates! 
 is doing a disservice to another game set on the rolling waters of the Caribbean. Ascaron Entertainment's 
 Port Royale 2 might focus more on shipping cartels than on sea battles and swordplay, but its brilliantly 
 realized gameplay is more than just number crunching. Buccaneers, tropical locales, and piracy 
 on the high seas are fully realized in Port Royale 2, and the intricate real-time design is geared 
 to win over even those who aren't fans of economic simulations.  

          While the visuals aren't much to look at, it's impossible to make Caribbean islands look 
 ugly, and the map screen gets the job done in an attractive board-game style.     

  Accessibility is the biggest reason for this broad-based appeal. Unlike the first Port Royale, 
 which dumped you into the deep end without even a tutorial, eight starter scenarios here cover 
 every aspect of building a shipping career amid the feuding English, French, Spanish, and Dutch 
 Caribbean colonies in the 16th and 17th centuries. Starting at the lowly rank of ship's boy, you 
 soon trade goods, set up convoys with around a half-dozen different types of vessel from sloops 
 to galleons, build businesses in towns, construct settlements of your own, stage sea battles, and 
 even track Blackbeard for the governor of Havana. These scenarios practically form a game unto 
 themselves. Most of these scenarios take well over an hour to complete, so by the time you're finished 
 with them you'll be thoroughly prepared for the free play campaign (the game's only other mode 
 of play) .  

  Ease of use is further enhanced by the superb interface. Ships are maneuvered by right-clicking 
 on a destination. Journeys can be accelerated by holding down the space bar to turn up time acceleration. 
 Right-clicking on ports of call after arrival brings up the trading window, and this is where you 
 buy and sell goods on a chart that shows prices and uses a color scheme to indicate the availability 
 of goods. Yes, it's still a spreadsheet, but don't let that scare you -- it's the most user-friendly 
 spreadsheet we've ever seen in an economic sim.  

  Left-clicking on a town while you have a ship in port brings up a view of the settlement's buildings, 
 which control most other game functions. Head to the shipyards to purchase ships, visit the governor's 
 mansion to check on missions, drop into the inn for some gambling or to recruit a captain or pirate 
 crew, and wander into the council building to hobnob with the upper crust. All activities and events 
 are tracked in a log. Aside from a couple of miscues regarding minutiae like button size and location, 
 the interface is a snap to learn.  

  The elegant trading engine at the heart of Port Royale 2 is complementary. You deal in 19 different 
 goods, ranging from foodstuffs to building materials to finished items. Each of the 60 towns spread 
 across the Mid-Atlantic and Caribbean, from Charleston in the north to Georgetown in the south, 
 specializes in five products. The 48 colonial towns produce two essential goods like grain and 
 fruit, two raw materials like sugar and cotton, and one processed item like coffee or tobacco. 
 The 12 governor and viceroy towns produce essential goods and finished goods like meat and garments. 
 These towns are also on European shipping lines, so luxury imports such as spices, wine, and tools 
 can be found there. A handy map provided with the manual shows each town's products, regional specialties, 
 and the colonial power spheres of influence.  

          Spreadsheets in an economic simulation are rarely this straightforward and easy to use. 
     

  Supply and demand rules everything. You buy low in a town where items are common and sell high 
 in a town where they are not. You can make a killing moving coffee beans out of Venezuela, tobacco 
 out of Cuba, and dyes out of Nassau. There are lucrative trading opportunities all over. Also, 
 icons under needy towns alert you to what goods are scarce. Have a hold full of hemp? Scan the 
 map and see which town is the most desperate to, um, make some rope. Such easily obtainable information 
 makes it easy to get absorbed in the game for hours, going from port to port looking for the best 
 deals and watching your bank account grow. It's incredibly addictive trying to figure out the most 
 economical ways of setting up trade routes, largely because there are so many towns and so many 
 possibilities.     

  That said, trading also comes with loads of complicating factors. The map and rate of consumption 
 are designed to impede easy money runs. You can't produce enough of an item to ship it constantly, 
 and even if you could, even the most voracious consumers eventually get their fill. Also, other 
 traders regularly move in on your action, and random occurrences such as storms, plagues, rats, 
 and wartime sabotage change supply and demand. Trade routes can be automated rather nicely, thanks 
 to convoy captains who can be given direct orders to govern what to buy and what to avoid, but 
 you need to micromanage to maximize profits and to develop new markets. This can cause the game 
 to drag at first, as it takes many hours to learn who's selling and who's buying what goods, and 
 to establish sensible trade routes. Before you can really play the game, you need to invest a lot 
 of time in trial and error and pretty much memorize the map.  

          The stellar tutorial may cover every aspect of gameplay, but even it can't help your crops 
 when a storm moves in.     

  Making big bucks requires more than trading, too. Top profit margins are earned by selling your 
 own goods, so it is vital to build businesses like cotton plantations, wheat fields, and the like. 
 Business interests must be watched. Construction materials like wood and brick must sometimes be 
 shipped in, workers often have to be imported, and residential areas must be built for employees. 
 Businesses also have operating requirements. Money, raw goods, and other materials have to be provided. 
 A cocoa plantation, for instance, wears out tools, so you have to keep importing them to maintain 
 production.  

  The end result of all this commerce? Building a mini-empire. In addition to the free enterprise, 
 you also accept missions for town governors. Build a respectable reputation with a particular nation 
 and you can visit the mansion in the governor's towns for assignments like fighting another nation 
 under a letter of marque, seizing enemy towns, hunting pirate gangs, and so forth. You can even 
 marry the governor's daughter and gain the land needed to build your own town, with businesses 
 and facilities like hospitals and schools. Of course, you can also go in the opposite direction 
 and hoist the flag with the skull and crossbones of piracy.  

  No matter which way you go, combat is a bit of a low point. All of the arcade-style action elements 
 feel tacked on to please the Pirates! crowd, and they don't complement the economic part of the 
 game very well. Sea battles are real-time affairs where you control just one of the vessels in 
 your convoy at a time. Lose one ship and you move on to the others, only giving up the fight when 
 all of your warships have been destroyed. These engagements are always simplistic, spin-and-shoot 
 scraps that begin and end very quickly -- sometimes  too  quickly, as you can get ambushed by pirates 
 and lose a whole convoy of ships in the blink of an eye. Town battles are equally basic, involving 
 nothing more than knocking down gates before a time limit expires. And sword duels fought when 
 a ship is boarded or at the climax of a town assault are clickfests so dumbed down that it's almost 
 impossible to lose.  

          Battles feel extraneous, like something tossed in for the sake of fans of Sid Meier's Pirates! 
     

  Visual presentation is another disappointment. Economic simulations are usually seen as the ugly 
 kids on the PC gaming block, and Ascaron doesn't do anything to change that perception here. But 
 even with the blocky minimaps and jagged town buildings and citizens, the map looks like a beautifully 
 animated board game, with bright blue seas, lush jungles, and just enough 3D to satisfy graphics 
 nuts. And the audio is fantastic. The soundtrack perfectly underscores the action, and it is catchy 
 enough to keep you humming after you've shut down your computer.  

  Above all, Port Royale 2 is a remarkable accomplishment, largely because it can make economic simulations 
 captivating even to those who may typically dislike the idea of this game genre. Ascaron has a 
 lot of help from the picturesque Caribbean setting and the always-enticing lure of piratical plunder 
 on the high seas, but the game design is so well thought out and executed that it would be a hit 
 no matter what the backdrop.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (10 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: fandom888
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 6, 2008 12:42 am PT
Review:  Port Royale 2 is asequel to the first Port Royale game. Unlike the previous game, which was a slight 
 failure, this new game is a really good game, just if you take into consideration its new features 
 and customization.
  
  In Port Royale 2, you start from a simple sailor, having just one small ship and a small amount 
 of money. You will have to trade for a long period, before you earn more and more money and reputation. 
 When your reputation meter is high enough, you may purchase building which help you to trade better. 
 You can also get a permission to attack hostile ships, either from an enemy country or pirate ships. 
 After you advance again, you may build your own town, and that's where the game ends.
  
  The customizations of the game are multiple. You can choose your name and the town you begin from. 
 Furthermore, there is a great variety of ships you can buy, the buildings you can build, and the 
 goods you can trade.
  
  The game is not easy to get into, though there are some tutorials which try to help. But they seem 
 to fail if you have not catched the concept of the game.
  
  The battles of the game is another feature of interest. They are well-designed, but they miss a 
 little something. And there are also the duels between two captains, which however are a bit difficult 
 for the players who have not played such a game before.
  
  The graphics of the game are not that good, though they are satisfying. Besides, why would you 
 mind about the graphics when a good gameplay is offered to you. And what everyone should respect 
 is the music, which sticks to the plot of the game.
  
  Port Royale 2 climbs the ladder of prestige till the end, but it doesn't touch the peak, due to 
 its minor bugs and problems. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: m_dorian
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 20, 2008 2:02 pm PT
Review:  This game belongs to the list of the classics for my playing list. It is an excellent economic 
 simulation of the pirate era at the carribean sea. Though it lacks the depth of graphics superb 
 Sid Meier's Pirates! has and the campaign and surprize that the latter gives it can hook you to 
 your screen for hours. It is not as difficult as presented for someone to get the basics but the 
 logic mechanism of the trade is rather easy and as for the action part i. e. battling pirates, anyone 
 accustomed with other pirate games can easily survive. 
  As for the newcomer to this world of sales and sails those tutorial missions can start one up quickly 
 to begin enjoying the game. It will consume one's happy hours of trading from Margarita to San 
 Juan and will only get to the shore when one is worn out. It might not be the most exciting thing 
 for one to play a trader or a pirate or both at an arcade like environment but when you start playing 
 you will be gripped to it with out explanation. And thats what games should be ,not fancy graphics 
 (though those help most of the time) but the player should get the essence and the feeling of the 
 environment the game has. You won't believe how much fun is to try to be a Carribean tycoon during 
 1600 until you play it for yourself. 
  Sound ,and especially music, is awesome and as described from gamespot's 
  reviewer it really 
 can make you hum - it worked with me. Port Royale 2 has excellent playability degree. I occasionaly 
 return to it from 2005 up to now.
  
  For anyone who want's to sail to the Carribes this game is for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shystr3
Rating: 8
Date: May 13, 2008 7:58 pm PT
Review:  Where Pirates! lacks in economy aspects, Port Royale 2 excels, plain and simple. Although it doesn't 
 really compare to Pirates! There isn't a basic economy where you can fill ports' need by constantly 
 shuttling back and forth between the same ports'. Additionally it's constantly changing throughout 
 the game making it nearly impossible to figure out, but like any AI there is always a way you figure 
 out over time. Also you can't just make money at the drop of a hat, you will need to search somewhat 
 to make that money, but if all else fails take a loan or gamble to make ends meet. Getting rank 
 in the game isn't solely based on missions you accomplish given by the viceroys or governors; you 
 will need to build businesses, buy (or pirate) ships, command multiple fleets, and be granted land (s) 
 to meet the requirements for each rank which is to say that ranks are based on a net worth rather 
 then just your savings/ accomplishment. You will also be able to oversee a port once you are granted 
 the land for a viceroy. I say oversee instead of building because the actual port buildings are 
 preplanned spots (and you will have to get the supplies for the inn, church, etc) and sure you 
 get to have a mansion but you'll never see the inside. You can also control as many fleets with 
 up to 10 ships each in fleet, giving them specific missions or trading to the micromanagement level 
 of even telling them what to buy, the quantity, and how much to spend for the good per good. Marring 
 the daughters is very disappointing to Pirate! fans, because all you do is visit (click the daughter 
 icon when your able to do so) and then accomplish the mission (yes mission) of getting the goods 
 for the banquet. Also there is no real goal or time aspect to the game like in Pirates!
  
  The graphics are nothing to be wooed about, very basic and plain, but overall fit the game genre. 
 Ships fire cannon balls, cannon balls have explosions (or splashes) , and ships fire up depending 
 on how much damage is dealt to them; at the ports people are moving around but it kind of like 
 watching ants, boring and unimportant.
  
  The sound and music is enough to satisfy the need and it won't get annoying over time; instead 
 you will tune it out almost as if it weren't playing. Sadly speech is only found for certain events 
 such as when viceroys, daughters, and the chronicle guy talk.
  
  Game play is very basic. For sea battles, right click controls ship's direction where as the left 
 controls firing the cannons and selecting type ammo. The swordfights are just as easy, left blocks, 
 right slashes the area where you click: head, torso, or legs; for those that played Pirates! you 
 will be very disappointed.
  
  Overall it's a fun and additive game for gamers would like having a micromanagement, without having 
 to be constantly micromanaging every aspect over and over (once the desired "management" is selected 
 is will stay that way until you change it) Also gamers would rather be an economic mogul and don't 
 want to be bothered by having to sea battling every time they take to the high seas.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: NapalmEddie
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 5, 2006 9:40 am PT
Review:  Port Royal 2 is a nicely balanced economic sim. The economy of the game is dynamic so you can't 
 simply find one good run and do it all game. Like real life, the demand for items ebb and flow. 
 There is a nice mixture of random events included to make it more realistic. 
  
  The battles are, sadly, uninteresting. They have a simple appeal for those who don't care to spend 
 your time fighting it out all over the ocean. Depending on what you bought the game for you may 
 be pleased by this. If you want more combat get Pirates! If you want challenging economic game 
 play (sounds exciting, I know) then get PR2. 
  
  The key to building wealth is learned not to buy up all of a commodity that a town has. Once you 
 learn this you will be well on your way to an economic empire! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gkaan74
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 21, 2006 2:53 am PT
Review:  I can simply say that the one of the best game I have ever played in 15 years. Many thanx to Ascaron... 
 If you're thinking to buy this game, definetely buy it. When you buy the game, in order to understand 
 it, first play the tutorials. After that off to free play or other scenarios. I have also played 
 Sid Meier's Pirates but it feels like playing a cartoon game. In PR2 you can be a pirate, trader 
 or whatever you wanna be. Do the tasks which your viceroy gives and after some tasks your viceroy 
 grants your own land so that you can start your very own settlement. Luvly... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChickenMcBastrd
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 27, 2006 6:47 pm PT
Review:  As featured on loadedinc. com...
  
  The original Port Royale was released last June. It was difficult, engaging, difficult, provided 
 good depth, and above all it was difficult. Id venture a guess to say that anyone who wasnt an 
 absolute strategy fanatic lamented the games toughness. Port Royale 2 improves the core gameplay 
 of the original while still maintaining the challenge that highlighted the first.
  
  In Port Royale 2 you have to rise from a humble trader to a successful businessman. Dont let that 
 exciting premise detract you from the game though. To accomplish this goal you have to navigate 
 the waters of the Caribbean circa 1600, where the Spanish, Dutch, English, and French are all vying 
 for power. There are four primary ways to acquire wealth in the game: missions, trading, production, 
 and combat (read: piracy) .
  
  When you start in free play mode, you are aligned to one nation. That nation and all its colonies 
 will be friendly to you. Unless there is a declaration of war against your nation, foreign ports 
 will remain open to you and military convoys wont harass you. In your starting colony you are 
 given a warehouse to store goods, a ship with an empty hold, some gold, and a map of the colonies. 
 You can also choose which strength you want to start off with. The strengths vary from receiving 
 discounts on traded goods, doing more damage in combat, and even being able to gain reputations 
 in colonies from successful battles.
  
  Your ships are the primary way of conveyance in the game. You can command a single vessel, a convoy 
 of up to ten ships, and depending on your rank in the game, you can hire captains and head up multiple 
 convoys. Your ships can be catered to your style of playkeep them empty to hold as many goods 
 as possible or load them up to the brim with cannons and make trading convoys fear your very sight. 
 Using your map, you can set sail to dozens of colonies scattered throughout the Caribbean. Once 
 youve reached a port, the money-making begins.
  
  With limited capital initially, trading will be your primary way of making money. Trading is simple 
 as supply and demand. You can trade goods where they are produced to colonies where they are most 
 needed. In addition, the price of goods varies from nation to nation. The price of wheat may be 
 substantially higher for French colonies than that of the Dutch so buying wheat produced in a Dutch 
 colony and selling it in some depleted French colonies will yield a massive profit. As you advance 
 in the game and acquire more than one convoy you can even set up trading routes. Its an automated 
 process thats very simple to set up. If given a trading route, a convoy will automatically trade 
 the goods you specify, make money, and leave you free to concentrate on the other aspects of the 
 game like building your own production facilities.
  
  Building businesses, for the most part, is a simple task. When you start out, you can only construct 
 buildings in your original starting colony. This is because you already have a building permit 
 there. To acquire building permits in other colonies you have to do a certain amount of trading 
 with them and build up a reputation. In fact, building up your reputation opens multiple doors 
 with the colonies. It allows you to speak with foreign governors, take loans out from colony treasuries 
 and overall makes things a lot easier for you. Once you can speak to a governor you can accept 
 missions from him. The missions are normally variations on trading, combat, and construction.
 
  
  To construct a business all you have to do is find the master builder and tell him what you want 
 to build. For a fee all you have to do is give him the supplies he needs and hell start construction 
 right away. If you dont have all the supplies then you can simply purchase them immediately from 
 the town that youre in. If the town lacks the necessary supplies they you can bring in everything 
 you need from other colonies. Once your business is built you have to bring in workers from other 
 colonies if none are available where you are. Transport your workers, build them a residence and 
 youre on your way to profit. Goods that are produced are automatically stored in your warehouse 
 and you can even toggle at what capacity you want your businesses to operate. Theres no sense 
 in paying wages to a full compliment of workers if their product isnt in demand. If what you have 
 doesnt satisfy your greed then you can always take others by force.
  
  What would a high seas game be without combat? Port Royale 2 allows you to take whatever you want 
 when you want itthere are some consequences however. There are two types of convoysmilitary and 
 tradingtrading convoys normally have a single escort ship with one or more unarmed vessels filled 
 with goods. Military convoys are colonial bad asses with five fully armed ships ready to take anything 
 suspicious out. If you start assaulting convoys left and right then youll have every nations 
 military hunting you down, taking your stuff, and generally making life very miserable for you. 
 You can attack shipping legally though by obtaining a letter of marque from a governor. This essentially 
 allows you to attack the shipping of one nation without any penalty from anyone else. Military 
 convoys of that nation will still hunt you down but its easier to avoid one nation than three.
 
  
  Combat is fairly simple, you have one ship, three types of ammunition, and a boarding party. Sail 
 your ship up to the enemy, heavy shot is your basic cannonball and will sink the enemy ship when 
 its health reaches zero. Chain shot will crush their masts and bring them to a painfully slow speed. 
 Grape shot litters the decks with musket balls and cuts down the sailors. If you want to capture 
 a ship you simply order your sailors to prepare to board and ram into the ship. A simulated fight 
 ensues and generally speaking the greater number of sailors wins the battle. However, if the enemy 
 captain is on board he can challenge you to a duel to decide the fate of the battle.
  
  The duels are just the first of a few main problems with the game. The duels boil down to simple 
 timed clicking. Once you learn the mechanics of them in the first duel you face, the rest of them 
 will seem extremely simple. There are some faults with other aspects of combat as well. Did I mention 
 that you get to command one ship at a time while the enemy can throw up to five ships at you? These 
 battles see your one ship duke it out with five enemies until its either sunk, captured, or you 
 tell it to flee while you bring in another ship to replace it. It can get frustratingly hard to 
 maneuver around while getting pounded from multiple sides. No matter where you turn theres probably 
 going to be an enemy ship there to inflict some sort of damage against you. The enemy AI is somewhat 
 incompetent though and were it smarter then the 5 vs. 1 would be more of an issue.
  
  Another detractor is the games way of managing time. Youll often find yourself in debt from the 
 numerous fees being collected. Youll have to pay ships maintenance costs, captains fees, and sailor 
 and worker wages. All these are taken out in a regular cycle of days. The problem is that getting 
 from colony to colony often takes several days and in some cases multiple cycles which can drain 
 your bank account quickly. This is where the majority of the difficulty laystaying out of debt. 
 Casual gamers wont like the amount of attention to each and every detail they have to spend on 
 in order to be successful in the game. The games treasurers feared me as I would often take out 
 loans to cover my costs and then never return to that colony to pay it off.
  
  Given that all this game has is its gameplay you would think that the developers would have spent 
 more time making it more accessible. The graphics arent going to win any awards but this game 
 doesnt need standout graphics in order to be fun. The character models seem generic and the models 
 in the duels look flat, almost like pieces of paper. That being said, the frame rate is consistent 
 and all the animations roll smoothly. If youre going to have something look mediocre, you may 
 as well have it be functional.
  
  The sound features a few rousing tracks that make my inner-pirate self scream out a healthy yaaarrrr. 
 My main beef is that the music will often cut out in combat scenarios if you spend a lot of time 
 in them. Its like the developers expected combat to take only a certain amount of time and if 
 you go over that you get no battle music. Also, the sound clips of citizens are almost sporadically 
 placed. The voice clips a few of the viceroys will play out as the text splashes on the screen 
 but almost no other characters have voices.
  
  Aside from free play mode, there are only the specific scenarios to go through. The scenarios actually 
 are a good tool for newbies to the Port Royale series and will help them understand some of the 
 more complicated and enveloping gameplay mechanics. Theres no multiplayer to speak of but it wouldnt 
 be relevant given the type of gameplay anyway.
  
  Overall, Port Royale 2 offers a lot for the strategy gamer who loves to keep track of every intimate 
 detail of his business operations. However, casual gamers will lose interest fast as their businesses 
 crumble into a pile of debt. With so much effort concentrated on the gameplay aspect the developer 
 may have wanted to spend more time tweaking the graphics and the sound to bring it up to par. Now 
 I need to head back to San Juan to take out a loan and cross it off my list of ports to visit.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Guapsrocks
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 13, 2004 8:59 pm PT
Review:  Wow I found this game so much like Sid Meiers pirates... If your shallow and only enjoy the eye 
 candy then Sid's Pirates is for you.. but if you like alot of meat behind the game you will love 
 Port Royale 2! 
  I just keep wishing they would add all the features of patrician III to this series and this would 
 make the perfect pirate / micro manage games on the market today!!
  If you like to manage supply and demand through serious advance trading I would recommend Patrician 
 III. Which is from the same software dev company, Ascaron. 
  Port Royale 2 has more action through combat. Though they have a trade system, it is dummied down 
 compared to Patrician III.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gumpo
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 4, 2004 10:25 pm PT
Review:  Port Royale 2 is not for the casual gamer. Unless you are really into micromanagement simulators, 
 or the 1600 time period the game is set in, you probably won't last long in Port Royale 2. While 
 the game sports excellent depth and wonderful replayability, it suffers from an unfriendly interface 
 and intricate details that can take some time to get used to.
  
  The idea of the game is to start up a business in the Caribbean, circa 1600. You start off with 
 nothing more then a warehouse in one of the many settlements, some funds, and a ship of your choosing. 
 At the begining parts of the game, you will find yourself simply going from town to town buying 
 goods that seem inexpensive, and selling them off to towns that are paying more for them. After 
 a while you will start to pick up on which towns need what item, and can then buy and sell more 
 efficently.
  
  Eventually, you can save up enough money and resources to build your own businesses, which lets 
 you produce different products and essentially sell them at a much higher profit. You will also 
 be able to expand into many more settlements later, which will eventually allow you to drop costs 
 even more, by harvesting cotton in one town and then shipping it to a town that manufactures clothing. 
 See, in Port Royale 2, different settlements can make different things - you can't choose what 
 is made in what town.
  
  Also thrown in to spice up the game is the ability to run errands for the Governor, Viceroy, or 
 even just some bum at the inn. These random missions range from taking someone to a town, sinking 
 some French ships for the Spanish, or mounting a raid on a town, and pillaging its resources. The 
 sea battles offer up so extra spice for when you get a little bored with the same-old trading business, 
 and the ability to take over towns is fun too. Unforunately, neither of the two features are too 
 intuitive or indepth.
  
  So the gameplay to be found in Port Royale 2 is certainly quality, however the interface and basics 
 of the game can take a while to master. If you don't mind spending a good hour or two learning 
 the basics of the game, you will end up being totally confused and frustrated. In the end though, 
 its a fun, solid, old-school title that i would recommend for any Sim fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stercus01
Rating: 6.9
Date: Nov 29, 2004 10:16 pm PT
Review:  This game isn't a bad game, don't get me wrong, but the first one was better. 
  
  PR2 has a very easy ship to ship combat system, where you can basicly just pull your one boat off 
 the screen and get a fresh one to attack with, where as the computer (to my knowlegde) does not 
 do this, making a semi skilled player near unbeatable.
  
  The trade system has been dumbed down but also requires a great deal of micro management. By this 
 I mean that its easier to get started but when you do get on a roll you can nit just make a trade 
 route until your captain gets some experance, and after two days of gameplay (about eight hours) 
 I did not have the correct amount of experance to do this. I ended up blowing alot of time babysitting 
 the ship captain that I wanted to on my trade runs and taking time away from my captain that was 
 exploring.
  
  Now there was some nifty additions, such as actually seeing the treasure on the map when you get 
 near it, so no more floating around hoping to run into it anylonger. Add in sword fighting, a excelent 
 way to win a fight that dead even or even tipped in the enemy's favor. Also a few more trade goods 
 and some prices that better sense than PR1.
  
  Overall this really should have been just a expantion pack and not a new game, and seriously, for 
 the price ($30 new) it very well could have been. "If it ain't broke, dont fix it." 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CANuckSSS
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 10, 2004 2:31 am PT
Review:  excellent game!!!!! i enjoyed the PR 1 and now PR 2 is more enjoyable. for those who didnt play 
 PR 1, no worries, PR2 have tutorials from the basics of trading, piracy and battles. this is more 
 indepth in terms of the trading and sea battles which were absent in PR1. the graphics???? a big 
 jump from PR1. you can now pick up stranded strangers floating in the sea or pick up floating cargo, 
 and this can also be a treasure from a sunken pirate ship. if you love pirate games or adventure 
 game w/ open ended game and a game based on the 16th century, this is YOUR GAME. learining curve 
 is about 2 hours max.
  there are many options in this game. you can be a trader and start having a monopoly of colonial 
 goods to be exported back to europe. or you can be a buccaneer or an admiral for one country. your 
 primary objective is to sink all your competitors trade convoy or military convoy (duh!?) . you 
 can be a notorious pirate, whose objective is to.... whatelse, PLUNDER!!!!!! either you can destroy 
 a colony or rob their Trading Convoys. but be sure, if you choose the road of piracy, always be 
 prepared to do harsh battle vs the spanish armada or the english fleet. by the way, there is also 
 a chance for you to locate some treasures along the carribean island.
  absolutely this game is a must. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
