-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Postal 2: Share the Pain
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/postal2multiplayer/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jan 20, 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.2
Critic Score: 6.1, 13 Review (s)
User Score: 8.1, 831 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Running With Scissors
Genre: Modern First-Person...
Date:     Dec 17, 2003
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
It may seem strange to put it this way, but Postal 2: Share the Pain is the game that Postal 2 probably 
 should have been in the first place. 

  Last April's Postal 2 seemed to purposely divide gamers into a "love it" or "hate it" camp, the 
 latter of which was considerably larger. The sequel to the controversial 1997 shooter promised 
 to be even more offensive than its predecessor, and it did in fact deliver tons of gross-out humor, 
 racist jokes, and gory violence, all while being perfectly flippant about it. Truthfully, Postal 
 2's content wasn't far in excess of what you could find on a typical episode of  South Park . Yet 
 while the game flaunted its naughtiness, it unfortunately didn't offer enough in the way of entertaining 
 gameplay or longevity to justify all the irreverence. More than half a year later, a rerelease 
 titled Postal 2: Share the Pain addresses the most glaring technical issue of the original -- the 
 painfully long loading times between gameplay areas -- and adds some goofy multiplayer modes (those 
 who already own Postal 2 can get the multiplayer upgrade at a discount, though it was initially 
 promised as a free download) . The result isn't going to convince anyone who took Postal 2 the wrong 
 way to give it a second chance, but it's a better game now than before, and those looking for some 
 seriously lowbrow humor in first-person shooter form would likely get a kick out of it.  

          This rerelease of Postal 2 addresses the game's painfully long loading times and adds some 
 multiplayer modes and a few other extras.     

  The single-player portion of Postal 2: Share the Pain is largely the same as before. Rather than 
 adopt the conventionally linear structure of most first-person shooters, Postal 2 has a more open-ended 
 structure reminiscent of the recent Grand Theft Auto games, only you're stuck running around on 
 foot. The cars lining the streets are apparently just there to mock you. As The Postal Dude (that's 
 actually his name) , you're tasked with completing a series of mundane errands over the course of 
 a work week. You may attempt to complete these errands conventionally -- for example, on Monday all 
 you need to do is collect your paycheck, cash it, and then buy a carton of milk -- but you'll probably 
 end up resorting to violence, and not just because you can. As the week goes on, certain factions 
 will automatically get on Dude's bad side, so going through the game without killing anybody becomes 
 practically impossible after a while. Also, the freedom to explore the town of Paradise is undermined 
 somewhat by the loading times that crop up in between relatively small sections of town. Again, 
 these are shorter and definitely more tolerable than before, which makes the game less frustrating 
 to play, but you'll still find yourself plotting routes through town that require you to go through 
 as few of these transitions as possible.  

  Mechanically, Postal 2 plays like a straightforward first-person shooter. There's a pretty conventional 
 array of weapons to collect, and you don't even have to worry about reloading these, though you'll 
 instead need to be careful about brandishing them in public (unless you intend to use them) . Some 
 of the later weapons are more interesting, such as the napalm launcher and, everyone's favorite, 
 the diseased cow head. But the citizens of Paradise never pose much of a challenge and are usually 
 content to just stand there and get their heads blown off. Some rag-doll physics and even a Max 
 Payne 2-style slow-motion power-up (an effect that Postal 2 did first, for what it's worth) can 
 make the gory action entertainingly over-the-top for a while, but it's probably too simple to hold 
 anyone's interest for long.  

  Postal 2 is mostly just an excuse to set up a lot of goofy, purposely offensive gags, and some 
 of these can be funny, while many of them fall flat. The Postal Dude himself, for instance, has 
 the voice of a radio disc jockey, and he sounds out of place as he forces cusswords out at every 
 opportunity. On the other hand, when he's out looking for the perfect Christmas tree or trying 
 to get Paradise citizens to sign a political petition or a few other such occasions, you might 
 get a laugh. At any rate, you could easily finish Postal 2's entire single-player portion in a 
 weekend or even in a day, though some cheat codes and multiple difficulty settings are available 
 to implore you to give it another whirl. Share the Pain adds a few new areas and a couple of new, 
 higher difficulty modes to the single-player portion of the game, but these don't really do much 
 to extend its value.  

  The four different multiplayer modes honestly don't do much to extend the game's value, either, 
 largely because not many people are playing them. Still, a built-in server browser theoretically 
 makes it easy to hop into an online session, and if you host a game session, you can throw in some 
 computer-controlled bots (which the game calls "morons") if you want more targets to shoot at. 
 Your main modes here are conventional deathmatch, team deathmatch, and a capture-the-flag variant 
 called "snatch," in which the "flag" is a scantily clad woman who piggyback rides on whomever picks 
 her up. Snatch and team deathmatch seem to be the most popular modes, relatively speaking, whereas 
 the "grab" mode, in which players battle to collect a series of power-ups, doesn't seem to be much 
 of a draw. There are more than a dozen different multiplayer maps, all seemingly based on areas 
 from the single-player game, and while most of the maps are pretty basic, they're reasonably varied, 
 and a few stand out. Also, a few of Postal 2's more-unusual gameplay features, such as the ability 
 to urinate on anything at any time and the ability to commit suicide by detonating a grenade in 
 one's mouth at the touch of a button, can actually come into play during multiplayer, lending the 
 action a decidedly different tone than what you may be used to.  

           Postal 2 is about as offensive and funny as a typical episode of South Park.     

 
  Postal 2 still looks quite good, at least when you're running around outdoors, and the game's 
 characters have a decent range of expressions and animations. Plus, in classic Duke Nukem 3D style, 
 there are lots of sight gags to be found. Indoors, the game doesn't look as attractive, and here 
 you'll notice that the level architecture is very simple and a lot of texture maps are overused. 
 Not that it really matters. The game's audio is also rather mixed, since not only does The Postal 
 Dude just not sound right, but a lot of the game's weapons sound rather underpowered, which is 
 surprising for a game that features plenty of gratuitous violence. Also, there's almost no music 
 in Postal 2, so you'll often be running around in relative silence.  

  Moral judgments aside, Postal 2: Share the Pain certainly isn't a bad game. It at least tries to 
 put a slightly original twist on first-person shooters by letting you explore (and open fire) at 
 your leisure, and there's simply a lot of stuff to see in Paradise. The multiplayer portion of 
 Share the Pain is OK, too, though it probably would have had more of an impact had it been included 
 with the original version of Postal 2. In fact, it may seem strange to put it this way, but Postal 
 2: Share the Pain is the game that Postal 2 probably should have been in the first place.     Editor's 
 note 01/21/04 : The review originally stated that the multiplayer content of Postal 2: Share the 
 Pain was available as a free download to owners of the original Postal 2 game, which is incorrect. 
 GameSpot regrets the error.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (44 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Sgt_Napalm
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 23, 2009 7:31 pm PT
Review:  Monday morning, start of a new week. You wake up, and the air conditioner is broken. In Arizona. 
 It's the middle of July. Your wife immediately pesters you to go to the market for her milk and 
 ice cream. So you step outside, and your dog pees on your leg. Great. You go to your car to get 
 ready to go to your work as a game developer, but that is broken. You can tell today is going to 
 be an interesting day.
  
  This is what is so fun about Postal 2. The day is going to be as interesting as you want it to. 
 For Monday, your missions are: Pick up your paycheck, cash your paycheck (At the Running With Scissors 
 office, a video game developer) , and go buy some milk. You can do these in any order. Don't want 
 to wait to get the paycheck to cash it? No problem. Go to the bank, and just rob the vault. Just 
 don't expect to be let off so easily for it. Expect heavy resistance. Want to buy some milk, but 
 you are all out of cash? No problem, just steal it. Just be ready for the angry Muslim shop keeper 
 when he comes at you with an M16. You decide to go to work then. It turns out that your boss is 
 firing you, even though it is your first day. Don't like him? No problem, just kill him. Then take 
 the paycheck. However, be ready for the "Parents Against Violent Video Games" protesters to come 
 in and attempt to assassinate the whole staff. The result could be wither a mini war with the employees 
 and the protesters, or you can just sneak out the back and miss all of the fun.
  
  Or, you can just ignore all of these missions and just go explore. The levels are full of detail 
 and have many secrets. It would take roughly 30 minutes to fully explore the first small section. 
 You can find things that you might not expect to find as well, like an entire terrorists training 
 camp. If you reach the end, you can even find your very own WMD for you to enjoy as you wish.
 
  
  As the days go on, though, you may find different things in different spots. You would find a lot 
 more money in the vault on Friday rather than Monday. You will start to find army personnel patrolling 
 the streets. Even entire events will take place and happen all on their own. For instance, on Tuesday, 
 a marching band will march through town. However, when they reach the end, they might find themselves 
 being bombed by a suicide terrorist.
  
  The game looks great. It's age does show, but it still looks pretty and the environments are gorgeous. 
 Even the over the top violence looks pretty. The blood, piss, and gasoline trickles around realistically 
 and sometimes pools up.
  
  The game play is simple and straight forward, but it does get monotonous and boring for long bursts 
 of play. You can take the ultra violent path or the pacifists path, but the latter is not enjoyable 
 at all.
  
  The game is also extremely short. You can push through the whole game in under two hours if you 
 really wanted to. I've tried it, and it was extremely unpleasant. It is very dull and not fun at 
 all. Don't try it, really. Playing it just for the sake of getting it done is not the way this 
 game is designed to be played at all.
  
  So overall, the game is a good find. I recommend you pick it up if have the chance. It is a great 
 game if you just wanna mess around or explore. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: freudlacan
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 22, 2008 12:06 am PT
Review:  I have to say, I hate shooters, I hate killing aliens, mosnters, or stupid soldiers in war games, 
 I specially hate this last ones. Still I like a gam that became a shooter like Resident Evil, but 
 of course it ahve a long story on its back.
  
  Maybe a game closer to what I can spect of an action game its GTA, I liked that one a lot, but 
 still, I never wanted to bee a gang member, never cared for money or power.
  
  So what if I just wana bee the asole next door? Look people, that was a reazon hancock was a great 
 hit, who spected an asole hero? and still, if in real life I have to bee so politically correct, 
 why i cant be an asole in a game?
  
  Theres were postal comes into scene. I had to wait 5 years till E3 2008 to know sutch an awesome 
 game even existed, and soo theres a third instalment, Why? Cause this great games where you can 
 pee in everyoene (not metaphorical) are not soo popular as the other stupid shooters mentioned 
 above.
  
  Like a normal guy theres a lot of thinks hateable, and lots of times you can say sh.... I wana 
 kill that guy, so here you go, do it in a game, kill the boss that fired you, kill that freaking 
 movie star, pee in the moob protesting to burn books, I love this game!!! Its like all your specting 
 into any other game come true in this game.
  
  Funny as hell, spect the unespected, and free yourself fron every stupid prejudice, goo play POSTAL 
 and share every day pain.
  
  PD asole means you know what 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thandor_DX
Rating: 9
Date: May 5, 2008 1:02 am PT
Review:  Disapointingly i didnt start playing this game till very recently so i cant really get the full 
 experiance seeing the graphics and gameplay are outdated but that doesnt change how much i liked 
 it!
  First impression was "This is freakin hilarious!" just the freedom and things you can do make it 
 a really good game. You have various things to do but you can take your time and do whatever you 
 want in-between them such as pour fuel on the ground and light it on fire while people are by, 
 kick someone that pissed you off and they start shooting and cause a sometimes massive chain-reaction 
 of evreyone pulling out guns and start going "Postal".
  
  If you just want to wizz through the missions its very short and not as fun.
  The new multiplayer 
 aspect is just a fun "blow everything up in sight"
  
  Summing it up: Very fun and hilarious game, youll be laughing all the way through. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tinkertown
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 25, 2008 4:26 am PT
Review:  Postal 2 is a game that kicks other game developers in the nuts and gives them a yummy turd burger.
 
  Postal 2 is another game based around urban chaos, sandboxing and freeroam. There isnt much to 
 say about the game due to the fact i call it my "Stress Reliever" since if the real world atrocities 
 are getting you down why not take it out on some random on the street or stick a cat on the end 
 of your shotgun and fire it through someones window... yes i did say that... and yes that is possible 
 in the game. Running with Scissors are one of the game companies that mothers around the world 
 must just hate to pieces. 
  
  This game is for those really who must have a good sense of humour and to not take this game to 
 seriously... if you do you have issues. 
  The whole plot of the game is to bascially be an errand boy doing usual everyday tasks I. E. picking 
 up the milk, getting your pay cheque, going to the bank to cash the cheque things like that but 
 with a little added violence. Skip the ques to pay for the milk with a nasty shovel in the face. 
 
  There were not many weapons in the share the pain pack, only the typical shotguns, Desert Eagles 
 and assualt rifles to name a few of the firearms, there were more funny weapons or brutal melee 
 weapons at your disposal such as the infamous gasoline. 
  The graphics side of the game is pretty good since it has physics which for me make game's even 
 more brutal and humourous. It would be better if the game did have its own soundtrack but i usually 
 play my own in the background... something weird like the teletubbies theme whilst going on an 
 angry fire based killing spree.
  The game is basically a brutal free for all packed in one CD just for the hell of it... it can 
 get quite boring sometimes, but some violent expertiments can be just plain awesome.
  
  Overall- A brilliant game for some depending on the kind of humour that you have, good graphics 
 and funny humour for an urban chaos game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dagamemonkey
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 26, 2008 9:35 am PT
Review:  Postal 2 Share the Pain boasts a gritty and grisly game filled with extremely violent actions coupled 
 with lewd references and use of drugs. Containing over-the-top images of graphic blood and gore, 
 decapitations, and disturbing images of death, this game is perhaps the most mature one ever made. 
 Though the game is not entirely all about blood and death; there's actually quite a bit of legit 
 humor even though it borders outright bigotry and animal brutality. The game is certainly controversial 
 and brings a new definition to the modern stereotypes.
  
  Share the Pain's gameplay is quite unique and stands out from other FPS games in many ways. Beginning 
 with the storyline: there is none really. There is no clear-cut and discernable storyline to this 
 game in hardly any way. What you do is, playing as the lovable bigot the "Postal Dude" as you'll 
 come to know him, is run these sometimes little errands which are written down on a little sticky 
 note for you. The game actually spans a whole week, and each new day after you complete the present 
 day's errands new errands will be assigned to you. Errands range from going and picking up this 
 carton of milk from an Arab-run grocery store to getting an autograph at the mall from Gary Coleman. 
 These errands will often trigger a major shootout in which you must blast your way out whether 
 it be against a bunch of turban-clad terrorists or shotgun-toting rednecks. The cool thing about 
 the errand thing is the uniqueness of their setup as they allow a little freedom for their completion. 
 Like when you go to buy milk you can either pay the measly $5 or try to run without paying for 
 it -- which can be lethal as the store owner attacks you and you get the cops on your tail. You 
 can also take your time completing the errands so that allows you to do some exploring which can 
 net you some items, some cash, and even new weapons. Speaking of weapons, this game boasts the 
 most disturbing and fun collection of toys for you to use to kill people with and often in graphic 
 ways. You have a simple melee attack which is a kick by pressing a button which can be used to 
 break windows, kick corpses, or kick open doors -- just experiment with everything with the kick. 
 Another "attack" would be the ability to urinate anywhere. Press a button to unzip your pants then 
 aim then fire away. Urinating is another experimental "tool" used by the Postal Dude, and in this 
 case peeing is good for putting out fires. Try going into a restroom, stand in front of a mirror, 
 and unzip your pants. You'll find an example of STP's crude humor because there's a big "CENSORED" 
 patch over the exposed area. Early in the game you will find a simple shovel, which can be used 
 to jab or slice which can result in a very bloody decapitation. From this point the earlier weapons 
 are standard to FPS games like the pistol, the shotgun, and the assult rifle. After that things 
 get very, very interesting -- like with the gasoline container with matches as the secondary fire. 
 Using the gas can is extremely fun to use though it can be hazardous to your health if you're not 
 careful. The gas can can be used to create barricades of fire, long lines of fire, and it's especially 
 good for burning corpses. The game is geared toward one's pyromaniacal tendencies as we have the 
 gas can with matches and the extremely dangerous napalm gun. As the best gun in the game the napalm 
 gun shoots canisters of napalm either bouncing around with napalm dripping out or it explodes on 
 impact. Shooting a couple of these little babies will whittle down a crowd very quickly. Aside 
 from fire-based weapons you can use an assortment of other neat weapons as well. Like the dismembered 
 cow head which when thrown, releases toxic fumes that make bystanders vomit blood all over the 
 place. Another weapon worth noting would be the pairs of scissors you can find later in the game 
 which can be thrown like knives or as ninja stars which ricochet against hard surfaces. Weapons 
 in general are just so much fun to use and they seemingly never get old -- especially the napalm 
 gun. The game provides for the player a whole truckload of difficulty settings so it will never 
 be too easy or too hard to play well. On the subject of difficulty in the shootouts you will generally 
 find yourself outgunned and outmanned, but the enemies carry guns 90% of the time so ammo is quite 
 plentious. Health packs are sparse but never too difficult to find if you just do a little digging. 
 Gameplay in general is superb in most aspects, though running the errands can get a little tedious 
 running from one end of town to another with often but usually quick loading times. The errands 
 provide something new to be seen or done, or some new weapon to pick up, or some new radical group 
 to watch out for. I'd have to say the best aspect about Postal 2 Share the Pain is the sheer fun 
 and desire to kill tons of people with the Dude's array of unique weapons. You can even kill yourself 
 by shoving a grenade in your mouth and getting a juicy third person view to see your innards decorate 
 the landscape.
  
  Graphics here are remarkably lush and colorful, though some work could have been done with the 
 character models. The female models usually are designed to appeal to the male's sensual desires 
 as they sometimes have suggestive clothing on or have really large breasts -- or both. Male models 
 are pretty uninspired, though from time to time you'll come across a guy with a "kick me" note 
 on his back. Despite the lack of variation in simple pedestrian models enemy models come pretty 
 varied. Enemies are all a part of some radical support group like "parents against violent video 
 games" or some psycho postal workers. Pedestrians move kinda odd sometimes as they'll walk up to 
 a counter backwards or they do this funky jig down the avenue. There are certainly a few goofs 
 with this element but more often than not it's humorous. Animals have a prevalent presence in the 
 game as you'll see cats, dogs, and elephants which are all rendered well. There are also vehicles 
 in the game which range from simple cars to tanks, and while the cars don't look super good the 
 tanks actually look decent. Vehicles can be destroyed by means of machine gun or napalm gun and 
 when they do it's spectacular; they fly into the air and land hard and they do so according to 
 some nice realism. Gun models are the most impressive in STP. They are sharp, accurate, and when 
 fired they act like real guns like with the kickback. Needless to say visuals like fire and burning 
 corpses are rendered very well. Urinating also seems to be done well whether you decide to pee 
 on the floor or on the ceiling. The funny thing about urinating on the floor is that the longer 
 you do it the larger the greenish puddle will become, and when you pee on the ceiling it will drip. 
 And if you decide to relieve yourself on somebody it may induce them to vomit all over the ground. 
 Blood is another thing done outstandingly obviously because of the game's content. Blood comes 
 in the form of vomit or big smears on the floor after killing someone. There are buckets of blood 
 and guts spilled throughout the week in this game. Overall graphics are done very well regardless 
 of a few dumb NPC goofs. Sound is something I have to rant on for Postal 2 STP. The Postal Dude 
 has this deep and monotone voice he uses the whole game, and it's very funny to say the least. 
 During gunfights he'll make quips like "Ah, so that's what that feels like" or "Now I can't feel 
 my legs." In his monotone voice these quips are just that much funnier. Aside from gun battles 
 the Dude will talk to people, and generally the conversation is filled with four letter words. 
 The most common phrase he'll utter is "You gotta be f'ing kidding me" except he doesn't say "f'ing" 
 like that. Since you can urinate anywhere in the game the Dude will say things like "Ah, now the 
 flowers will grow" which seemingly never gets old. Guns sound very nice whether it be blasting 
 off someone's noggin' or pumping a corpse with lead. Overall STP has great sound, and the Postal 
 Dude's quips are absolutely rich.
  
  Postal 2's value is fairly mediocre, but despite this the game offers plenty of moments to go "postal" 
 on everything around you. You can go postal either during your errands or you can just goof off 
 killing things and setting people on fire. However, even going postal can get a little old after 
 a while, so you can always go back through your errands and beat the game again, unfortunately 
 once you've played it through once a second time won't be as fun or funny. There are even cheat 
 codes that make all civilians Gary Colemans toting assault rifles or turban-clad terrorists toting 
 assault rifles, and a bunch of other things I won't spoil for you. So all in all Postal 2 STP's 
 value is bordering mediocre, but very close to none. The game is, however, worth it totally to 
 blast through once and maybe twice.
  
  The game is difficult to find, but should you find it somewhere then picking it up is recommended 
 because it's so unique. Despite some of STP's shortcomings you have a fun, funny, brutal, and gritty 
 game experience. The sheer novel value of the game really stands out for a shooter because of not 
 only the way you are able to dispose of people, but because of the simple and often funny errands 
 you'll embark on. So while running with scissors may not be a good idea, but playing or picking 
 up Postal 2 Share the Pain is a great idea. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aden331
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 23, 2008 4:22 pm PT
Review:  Ok, lets just start by saying this is one messed up game. 
  This is by far the most VIOLENT game I have ever layed eyes on, as well as the most disgusting.
 
  But in amongst the Violent, revolting and actually at times quite disturbing shell, There is a 
 quite a funny game. 
  The sick and sadistic black humor really was very funny at times, even though it was usually very 
 stereotypical.
  It's easy to understand why this made so many people angry, It did make some random cracks about 
 homosexuals, middle easterners etc. 
  
  I did a random test to see if this made me more Violent then usual, To test the "the game made 
 me do it" that this game came out with.
  I played the game for 3 hours non-stop, for a week, I did have a change in my behavior. 
  Not 
 Violent as such, but more un-friendly and scary. 
  Alright, lets get to story.
  
  Long story short, Postal 2 has no story, you are asked to do an errand and you can do this as Violently 
 or calmly as you wish. 
  Even though it is possible to go through the game without killing a single man, woman or animal, 
 it is VERY HARD; 
  The situations you are put into are hard to get out of without violence, nearly imposable even 
 and even if you really really try you'll probably get frustrated and just have to kill a few. 
 
  
  In the Game play, It is pretty straight forward, Kill and keep going forward. 
  The game is not very liner, so you can go and complete the errands in different ways.
  For example, 
 the mission in which you must get milk on Monday; 
  You could just walk in, grab the milk, wait in line and buy it and leave. End of mission. 
  Or 
 you could run in grab the milk and hold the shop keeper up at gun point, causing the front gate 
 to close and postal dude to run through what seems to be an illegal arms and drug dealership. 
 
  when you're just wandering around paradise you can either just move quietly to the next area or 
 flip out and KILL EVERYONE in the area.
  
  In the graphics area, in todays standards the game looks a bit old school, using the old unreal 
 engine. 
  But it does have a bit of a charm to its look.
  
  In the weapons department is where this game really shines:
  Napalm launchers, gas cans, anthrax 
 filled cow heads.
  The game has a good selection in its belt. 
  
  Postal 2 Share the pain also has a new added multi player feature, while it was chaotic and fun, 
 that was about the only thing that had really made the Postal 2 into Postal 2 STP. 
  And as the editor was hard to use and often times very unstable, it really wasn't a very important 
 addition to the pack. 
  
  Postal 2 STP is a Fun little 20 minute at a time game that works kind of like a stress relief game. 
 
  The graphics were a bit mediocre in some spots and the game was often times over the top, throwing 
 a Little too much violence and racism for the unsuspecting public. 
  The bottom line is, if you like senseless GTA style violence and some funny and stereotypical moments 
 and situations then give Postal 2 STP a shot; But if you are very serious or very easily offended 
 then leave it be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wacko_McSmacko
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 26, 2007 7:22 am PT
Review:  Gee, Postal II, one of the most violent and controversial games ever definetly is one of my favorites. 
 It's basically pointless, you're a guy named Postal Dude who needs to run errands over a period 
 of 5 days, (7 days if you get the expansion) . Of course you don't have to just go buy the milk, 
 you can butcher the entire store and steal the milk! And you just don't go and buy groceries, you 
 kill Gary Coleman, you fight the Taliban, bring Osama to justice, battle vicious hillbillies, beat 
 down cannibal butchers, and survive angry protesters with shotguns! Welcome to Postal 2 Share the 
 Pain!
  
  Postal follows a simple premise, just do your errands. Most of the game can be done non violently, 
 but it's to f**king fun to just mindlessly kill people. The gameplay runs smoothly, a few long 
 loading screens when you move to different areas. The graphics are just fine, not great, but not 
 bad. And the violence, oh god please forgive me for playing this game. The violence is very well 
 done and blood just spurts into your face in those close quarter fights. Pouring gasoline on someone 
 and dropping a match on them is just plain cruel, but at the same time hilarious. The games has 
 several very simple weapons, such as a shotgun, a shovel, a pistol, a machine gun, napalm, and 
 many others. You can even pee on anyone at any time in the game, which is extremely funny. I laugh 
 myself to death running around town urinating all over people's faces. If you play online you can 
 get a few more weapons including a barbarian axe, and a laser shotgun. Of course your enemies are 
 armed to the teeth with weapons, so if you get hurt too much you need to fin some health. Of course 
 your main source of health is crack cocaine, which as soon as you smoke some, you need to smoke 
 more or you lose health during withdrawal. It's a funny but crude concept.
  
  The controls of Postal are simple. It shouldn't take you more than a few minutes to learn. Basically 
 all you do is move and shoot, so it's not that complex of controls to learn.
  
  However, i must deliver a warning to anyone who purchases this game. Don't buy this for kids. The 
 game has very racial remarks and swears, vicious murders of innocent people, and police officers. 
 You abuse animals buy using cats as gun silencers, and killing dogs for barking at you. You also 
 use large amounts of crack cocaine in this game, and that's definetly not something you want to 
 teach a kid to do. 
  
  But if you're over 17 and are ready for a gory, crack smoking, gun shooting, vicious game from 
 hell, by all means buy Postal 2, and remember, SHARE THE PAIN! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RobinLau
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 26, 2007 7:21 am PT
Review:  storyline, perfecto, graphics, not that great but all that gore and stuff just replaces it, sounds, 
 love them, especially those animal silencers of course.. XD
  
  and oh, did i mention urining? WOW... fun stuff, shame that its nt flammable, because i think that 
 in real life, it is... but still, super amazing game, saw it on youtube first, now i played it on 
 my own, atfirst, loved it, called my friends to see it, laughed their @ss out and well, they bought 
 it aswell...
  
  Hard game, but it was just so fun! all the blood, those headshots, its just another third person 
 GTA! and i LOVE it, seriously, i would really want to see if Postal 3 is something similar like 
 this
  
  
  
  beated it like thrice and never got bored of it, currently starting another game.. now at... tuesday 
 i think 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrPurple2
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 13, 2007 11:09 am PT
Review:  Postal 2 Share the Pain is amazing (especially with the A Week in Paradise add ons) . You can do 
 pretty much anything in this game (exept driving, dang exploding props) . You have now been given 
 the ability to burst through someone's window, taser them, gut them like a fish, and pee on the 
 corpse. Use pistols, shotguns, sniper rifles, M16s, grenades, shovels, machetes, rocket launchers, 
 scyths, brass knuckles, baseball bats, throwing stars, cleavers, gasoline and matches, tasers, 
 napalm, moltovs, scissors, and much more to fulfill your sickest desires. Yes, Postal 2 Share the 
 Pain with A Week in Paradise add ons allows you to become a serial killer for a day! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: McSqueaky
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 26, 2007 9:01 am PT
Review:  Postal 2: STP is like Carmageddon II as a first-person-shooter. The twisted humor and the crazy 
 violence make for one hella manly game. The dialogue brings this game up two whole numbers on the 
 1-10 scale. The stuff the characters say makes you laugh even harder than you already are. The 
 gameplay is similar to Unreal Tournament, what with the physics and combat system. Your first mission 
 in Postal 2: STP is to pick up some milk at a store. But with this game, picking up some milk can 
 turn into a murderous onslaught depending on what the player feels like doing, which is partly 
 what makes this game so cool. It's only as violent as you are! But what truly makes this game as 
 awesome as it is is the humor and comical violence that is constantly thrown at the player. It's 
 hard to find games that make you laugh anymore. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Golem99
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 3, 2007 7:30 pm PT
Review:  Ah postal, our only little slice of hell in heaven. The game right away will strike interest in 
 anyone from peeing in a mans mouth to using a cat as a silencer. Graphics - 6
  Now the graphics arnt the best. Im not a real fan of the Unreal 2 engine but still could have looked 
 better, espically the lighting really could. But i do hav to say that the water particles in the 
 urine is very realistic. But the one thing that really annoys me is how you can see the bottom 
 of charcters head when they look down, its kinda annoying and yet very disturbing.
  
  Sound - 10
  The one thing that makes this game so great is the dialog. Every few kills the Postal 
 Dude will something witty like Video games dont kill people, I DO! to my favorite Christ, feels 
 like satans rectum in here!! . The people on the streets say some weird ass stuff such as Grandma 
 came down with the anthrax you know The gun sounds are pretty basic i guess. Could hav music is 
 wat i think they could improve upon. Gameplay - 9
  Could have been better but hey, wat other game lets u piss on people?! The game goes by choice 
 on how u get ur chore down. Just about everything can be solved with money, or better yet, a murderous 
 crime spree!! The weapons are very creative from a cow head fill of anthrax to a Napalm gun that 
 jumps around and leaves a traill of fire behind it wherever it goes.
  
  Over all if you have a little extra cash go buy this game. Also when you get it make sure to d/l 
 the mod Eternal Damnation, but if u are easily scared dont d/l it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: death_reardant
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 28, 2007 7:37 am PT
Review:  I hadn't heard of this game until recently but I'm so glad i found it, It's the kind of game for 
 gaming nutters who enjoy watching virtual soldiers engulfed in napalm writing in pain, It's just 
 senseless violence and it's great.
  Urinating on people, shooting at civilians or police, torching buildings and people throwing scissors 
 and hitting elephants with a spade, everything you could ever wish for.
  
  and for something extra special, you can go to a nice public place like a bank for example and 
 state the following I regret nothing! then placing a grenade in your mouth and blowing your head 
 off... AWESOME... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sik567
Rating: 7.4
Date: Feb 14, 2007 9:42 am PT
Review:  Although i like the game i said rent it first , because this is a game that can like you all the 
 way or suck great . Some may think it is a masterpiece but some might say it is worse than a total 
 letdown.
  
  The game is actually pure violence, it is NOT GTA. You can pee on people and set them on fire with 
 gasoline. There is little realism, but, lol, of course, violence is as realistic as it could be in 2003. You 
 cant even drive a car, you can only blow them up. It is also lol that if you kill everyone in one 
 zone, go to another and return then everyone and everything is ok.
  
  So as i say, rent it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Voldy26
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 18, 2009 2:22 pm PT
Review:  If you can't get a life, Postal 2 is the next best thing. Aside from giving you great freedom in 
 interacting with the game world and providing you with countless ways to rain down some hardcore 
 violence on innocent (and in some cases, not so innocent) civilians, it's also funny as hell, especially 
 if you are have a bent toward the darker kind of humor. The gags in the game are simply too numerous 
 to list, and anyway, it's best to see them for yourself. It's also worth noting that, while you 
 can slaughter people and animals and destroy property at your leisure, the game isn't always easy, 
 which makes it all the more enjoyable. There are a number of quests you need to complete in order 
 to finish the game, and they all involve some hilarious adventures, but you can postpone them indefinitely 
 as you explore the town. After completing the game you get a rating detailing how many people and 
 other living beings you killed or otherwise harmed, and in what ways, which is certainly very rewarding 
 (unless you happen to be a psychologically healthy individual, but then you wouldn't be playing 
 Postal 2) . Enjoy! Just don't try to imitate it in real life, you won't last long ;-) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fixer38
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 15, 2007 9:34 am PT
Review:  Postal is a game many people are not aware of. Infact I just got to know the game and I must say 
 Its not the best game I have played but Its not total garbage. First of all this game is not for 
 everyone. If you hate gore or black-humor you should not even pick this game up. But If you take 
 violence in games as a joke, Postal 2 : Share The Pain is something you might want to take a look 
 at. So what is Postal 2 : STP all about? Basically you are The Postal Dude and you need to do some 
 every-day things in Paradise City. The name Paradise City really stands out for it-self as every 
 2nd person you see has a gun and most of the population is a bunch of idiots or lunatics. But aside 
 from the massive genocide that you see every day at Postal 2 the city actually looks quite good. 
 The graphics and sound are not something that will amaze you but they will not make you want to 
 kill the creators. Most of the action is brought to you in First-Person look and some small animations. 
 Gore is as mentioned before quite plenty-full as you play the game. Racist jokes are plenty-full 
 in the game not to mention all the gross things you will see. Mostly the story grows quite boring 
 over-time but you will like the first few days that you pass in-game. Taking a book back to the 
 library turns into hell as some people who think books are `bad` try to burn down the damn building. 
 And going to the cemetery to see your old dad gets you into a damn gimp suit later on. So umm yeah... its 
 something unique if you ask me. The game also has quite allot of weapons. You will get : A  
 a poisoned cow-head and allot of other weapons. Power-ups are also present and you get : donuts, pot, a 
 fish-sniffer (radar) and allot of other stupid things you can think of. Allthough the game may 
 seem to be a straight forward shooter, you can actually be tactical. Like if you capture a cat 
 on the street you can mount it on your shotgun and make the shotgun silenced for a few shots (yeah 
 really interesting) or smoking health pots can give you a boots but later one gives you a drawback.
 
  
  Overall you will not find this game to be something you will play for hours but its a nice way 
 to get your dose of violence for the day. Postal 2 : STP is only for violent people or those who 
 take games as a joke. I enjoyed it for a few hours but I am not that violent.
  
  Note : Black-Humor - Humor that is based on killing or jokes that are violent. It has nothing to 
 do with Afro-Americans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeathConker
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 25, 2006 4:41 am PT
Review:  You haven't played aby game Until you have played Postal. This has to be the goriest game in the 
 world, also banned in every country apart from the UK. Mainlly because we don't care about violence. 
 Games such as Manhunt and the GTA series look like Disney cartoons compared to the Postal Series. 
 Postal 2 was revolutionary at the time because you could go into a shop and buy items, Blast off 
 or whack off peoples heads and last but not least, you can pick a fight with elephants.... and 
 probably get owned by them.
  
  Things you should know before playing the game:
  
  This is a computer game and is meant solely for entertainment purposes.
  
  This game contains 
 content and materials not recomended fo children and/or those seeking to enhance establish poliitical 
 careers.
  
  Running With Sissors believes violence and inappropriate actions belong in video games and not 
 the real world, and insists that in no event should you attempt to recreate or mimic any of the 
 actions, events or situations occuring in this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BarbedBuffalo
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 6, 2006 11:02 am PT
Review:  its way to short! : (
  
  i was hoping they would take more of a GTA approach and make it so once you finish all 5 levels....... 
 you can continue going about your business. like peeing on flaming cats and gimps, throwing mutilated 
 cow heads full of anthrax, blowing up gas stations with rocket launchers, blowing up terrorists 
 that look just like Bin Laden! what could be more fun you ask!?!
  
  killing gary colemen? no? how about a guy running around dressed up as a giant crotch.
  
  i 
 play this game everytime i have a bad day. cheers me right up. funny as hell everytime. one issue 
 here beside its way to short. it has kind of a monster hunter approach when it comes to load zones. 
 you hit them frequently. (not fun waiting to kick ass)
  i pretty much starved myself to death the day i downloaded the game off www. GOPOSTAL. com
  
 
  just played it straight through to the end. then ate.
  
  if your looking for a laugh for the most part this is pretty funny. infact this is the first game 
 i've seen a warning saying not to mimic anything you see in the game. thats priceless.
  
  i haven't gotten around to playing the multiplayer just because i don't want to take the time to 
 load 50,000 different things to play it. got better things to do with my time. like sleep. besides 
 nobody uses the multiplayer anyway.
  
  there isn't much of a story to it. you have a wife, a trailer, and a broken down car. you get simple 
 everyday tasks like going to the store to buy milk, and pissing on your dads grave, getting a christmas 
 tree, confessing your sins, getting people to sign your patition, getting knocked out, raped and 
 waking up in a beer factory. you know that old everyday thing.
  
  seriously not a kids game, if you have a better game in mind. get that before this just because 
 i can't guarentee you will be statisfied with this game because its unbelievably short. or you 
 may have a much different sence of humor.
  
  definately do a bit more research on it before you make your final decision.
  
  heres a postal 
 2 video . (if this even works)
  
  http://www. youtube. com/watch? v=3fKZFcWKQMI 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gta11
Rating: 8.4
Date: Oct 19, 2006 2:30 pm PT
Review:  Postal 2: Share The Pain For PC.
  
  
  Ok, wow. I have yet to see a more over the top, in-your-face don't-give-a-damn attitude game than 
 Postal 2. No comment on Postal in regards to this though, as I never played it. But yeah, this 
 game brought controversy to brand new heights and a new level of laughs too! And while I don't 
 play this game anymore, I look back on it fondly for its daring tactics and breath of fresh air. 
 I'll also let you know that since I've only played the Share the Pain version of this game, then 
 this one is what I'll review.
  
  Hello there! And welcome to Paradise. A backwater redneck town where people just go about their 
 daily lives day by day. Whether it's enforcing the law, smoking health pipes, or shooting other 
 people. Meet Mr. Postal Dude. A sarcastic unsympathetic redneck of a man who loves nothing more 
 than guns, health pipes and Mr. Coleman. He decided he'd move to Paradise to apply for a video 
 game job with Running with Scissors, only to get fired the very first day. From then on, there's 
 not much this poor bastard can do but get on with his life, getting his daily chores done. Such 
 is life, isn't it Mr. Dude?
  
  Graphics : Unfortunately, I don't see the game winning love and awards for this department. The 
 texturing is good by standards, as are the skins of the people and such. Outdoor areas rule the 
 day as they have the appropriate details of roads with buildings lining the sides, nature parks 
 ruined by pollution, and such things. Unfortunately, that's where the good side ends. Most of the 
 interior areas range from effectively designed to just plain terrible. Places like the Bank and 
 Convenient store look just like they should, while places like the church and disco and even houses 
 are just plain shoddy. They either have absurdly silly architecture, or they're too small or else 
 they just look absolutely bland. The whole town could have done with a few more places too. How 
 about a school maybe? Or perhaps a movie cinema? How come this town doesn't have THOSE? It's A 
 bit slack if you ask me. Oh well, I'll admit that I've seen much worse, and it doesn't kill the 
 concept of the game either. And hey, it has a mall at least!  It's just not exactly perfect either.
 
  
  Sound : Pretty damn good. The thing I love most about it Mr. Postal Dude himself. He's got a bit 
 of a deep voice that lovingly demonstrates his sarcastic nature. Go on a killing spree and his 
 casual remarks ought to send you laughing through the roof! I won't spoil anything, but trust me, 
 even now when I play it, it still makes me chuckle to hear those remarks. And his remarks he makes 
 about the situations he's in are too funny! The rest of the civilians have standard voices and 
 remarks to go with them, but they sure weren't laid to waste though. They have equally good acting 
 for them and their remarks save for cut scenes and other select events- are general but effective. 
 The weapons are good too. The guns make impressive bang noises, and the explosions sound awesome. 
 I can't say anything good about the machinegun though. It just sounds downright weedy compared 
 to the rest, as opposed to how strong it is. Mind you, it's only 1 bad sound, so I'll let it slide 
 just this once. The world sounds as much alive as it is too. You'll hear birds singing in the trees; 
 rave music played at discos and parties, and even police radio nearby if you're wanted! Ok, so 
 maybe graphically Postal 2 could be better, but the sounds of the world make up for it completely!
 
  
  Gameplay : The key to playing this game is to think inventive. Study an area you're in, and think 
 of how you can cause chaos! Well, that's if you feel like it in between missions. It's great! So 
 everyday, the Postal Dude wakes up to a brand new day and has a list of chores to do. They're simple 
 chores like buy milk, pick up the paycheck, or even get Gary Coleman's autograph on his book you 
 have. But just because these chores are so simple to do doesn't mean once it's done, it's done. 
 Some of them seem to have some sort of crazy event triggered by them. Let's cook up the least spoiling 
 example. You go to the bank with your check in hand. Cash it, and the next thing you know, robbers 
 start holding the bank up. Do what you wish. Kill them, help them, or just get the hell out of 
 there; the choice is all yours. Of course, there's always more than one way to get most chores 
 done So what about when we have free time and don't feel like doing today's chores? Do whatever 
 the hell suits you! Whip out ya rod and spray people if you want! Or just grab a shovel and kill 
 a few people with it. Practice your sniping skills! Blow things up! It's all up to you what you 
 do to the environment and its people. There are a few other things to amuse or benefit you too, 
 but I'll leave you to find out what they are. Or if you prefer, just do your duties and be on your 
 way. Although a few situations will truly test your patience. It's also nice to see the loading 
 times between maps have been cleaned up. People said that in the regular Postal 2 that loading 
 times were rather nasty. It definitely seems acceptable here. About ten seconds off the top of 
 my head, maybe?
  
  Hell yeah. When you start another game, there'll be situations you'll decide to experiment with 
 differently. Plus, there's a nice little reward for those that finish it too. You'll see. *wink*
 
  
  Yup, it's nice to see something different for the FPS genre for a change. And while it loses replay 
 value eventually, I deem it worthy of buying as a collector item. Sold!
  
  And You Can Decapitate People With Shovels Which Is  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KillerG2300
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 15, 2006 10:32 am PT
Review:  right so I played this game a LONG time ago, but i started playing it again so heres my review:
 
  
  Postal 2, a one-of-a-kind game that really shows what a pissed off person could accomplish. you 
 pick up a shovel and slam someone over the head with it, I mean how much more awesome can you get? 
 theres lots of kinda cool weapons, next to the regular Deagle and Shotgun.
  
  The graphics are okay but the characters lack any kind of shadows, why is that? its the unreal 
 2 engine.. it can handle it.. anyways so RWS tried to tag in some lame story by giving you objectives, 
 or chores to do for your wife which Pdude hates. sure its lame but its still funny as hell. the 
 levels are pretty open (with load sequences over bridges and gaps and such) so you really could 
 just beat people up all day and totally forget your chores. theres no time limit which is good.
 
  
  as for multiplayer I wouldnt bother with it, not enough players, and the only people who play it 
 are really good so if your a noob theyll just blast you and leave you no chance
  
  I would say even though I understand now my review is kinda lame, get the game if you dont your 
 truely mising out on a piece of video game history.
  
  Postal 2 is a GOOD GAME its just not really a type of game that has real objectives.
  
  and 
 oh yeah if you get this be sure to pick up a copy of Apocalypse Weekend aswell 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jelle_schepens
Rating: 6.4
Date: Oct 14, 2006 4:03 pm PT
Review:  hello, I want to make a small, but one that says everything review. Also quick to read.
  In the beginning it's a nice game, but after one hour maybe 2 or three it starts to bore, not because 
 it's not fun but there is not treally a difficulty.
  you got lots and lots... of weapons in your inventory, sometimes hard to find the weapon you need.
 
  but don't hear me wrong, it's fun. it's a cruel game, with lots and lots of blood, the great fun 
 is the huge choise in weapons, you can go from a shovel to a nuclear rocket launcher with antrax, 
 you can but a cat on your shotgun, you can kill everybody you cross on the street you even can 
 CATCH cats, yes you read it right, catch cats in a first person shooter!!!! but enfortunetly it 
 was taken from the market because there was to much violence in it, (what do you want, you can 
 shoot people theire head of with a shotgun and if you keep shooting on the corps, there is a blood-flood 
 everywhere nice word he blood-flood )
  i give it a 6.4 and im even reasonable ;-)
  i would say, rent it before you buy it because if you play 2 days you're sick of it, at least i 
 was ;-)
  it's more a shoot-em-up game, you first mission goes like this:
  
  You come out of your blisstering trailer, damn it's hot, let me get some milk, and while i'm at 
 it i'll kill the whole town with scissors, and shovvels, and police bats, and other sick weapons....
 
  And if you kill someone, the police come after you and if you kill that officer it's ok, nobody 
 will chase you anymore.... bit strange....
  but hey, I fillled enough of your precious time, have fun gaming!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cehok3
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 9, 2006 12:24 pm PT
Review:  WOW, i cant belive it.... Punch me if i am dreaming. Becuse this game is so cool i cant belive it! 
 =)
  
  In this game you can do anithing but not driving veichles!
  But still ITS GREAT.
  
  I first start playing with POSTAL 2, and a few years without playing postal 2
  i see mods 
 4 this game like SHARE THE PAIN and the other mod. ( I cant remenber the name :I)
  
  GAMEPLAY: its cool and the camera is great (first person view)
  WEAPONS: lots of weapons, not just 
 weapons you got other items like gas and more stuff , and this YOU CAN TAKE A CAT AND PUT ON A 
 WEAPON and shut in the cats but and thro the mouth ;)
  
  GAME: What can i say ITS WOURTH OF PLAYING
  
  THIS GAME CHANGE MY LIFE I AM BEHAVE LIKE HUMAN 
 IN POSTAL 2
  no just kiding =) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yo_foo
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 14, 2006 11:48 pm PT
Review:  This game was banned in Australia. But I've played the full game while I was in L. A. and all I 
 can say is... well I can't say anything really. I'm speechless.
  
  Ever since I played the demo in a PC Magazine I had waited a full year to have the chance to obtain 
 my copy of the game. And it was abslutely worth it. It's laugh out loud satirical disturbed look 
 at the world is simply unrivaled. It plays like GTA, except without the cars, but it's a first 
 person shooter. You can free roam around houses, go into almost every building, and do absolutely 
 anything you want. You can even unzip your pants and urinate on pedestrians and fires. The game 
 is extremely explicit. You are able to remove heads with a shovel, burn carcasses, kill innocent 
 animals such as dogs and cats (put a cat on a shotgun and use it as a silencer) and elephants. 
 Pedestrians puke if they are urinated on or if they see a bloody aftermath to a battle, and they 
 puke blood if they are near an Antrax Cow head (a weapon in the game) . You can urinate blood if 
 you are bitten by a dog while your pants are unzipped and you can also catch a urinating disease 
 so when you urinate - it comes out in slushy vile waste and it does damage. The game also makes 
 fun of real life stereotypes. No one is safe. They show activists against RWS, Osama Bin Laden 
 look alikes, Indian shopkeepers, Chinese restuarants, Homosexual bars with people in gimp suits 
 and they poke fun at authority brutality. Gary Coleman also pops up in the game. Drug use is also 
 evident in the game.
  
  The graphics are outstanding and the character models and actions are magnificant. They cry and 
 weep for mercy while you bash them violently. There is no limit to this game's brutality. This 
 is why it is so addictive.
  
  There isn't much of a story to the game, you just run crazy errands for your wife (which makes 
 for some hilarious scenes) however this is sufficient enough story, it's not totally random in 
 that regard.
  
  If you live in a country and its not banned, buy it immediately. If you can't get it, get it some 
 way, it truly is magnificant. A guilty pleasure. One of the greatest games of all time behind Deus 
 Ex and Duke 3D. A Masterpiece.
  
  :' ( 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mackan52
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 7, 2006 3:20 am PT
Review:  As far as we know politicians and outraged parents keep attacking RWS-studios for this game, but 
 they lose sight that you don't have to play this game if you don't want to.
  
  Anyway this game is awesome on the basics that in this game you can do anything you can't do in 
 the real world and this is a good game to take your anger out on, if you feel rage don't kill anybody 
 in the real world play Postal instead.
  
  The game unfortunaly lack good graphics but it makes up on that with the open range you have to 
 play with and the loading bars are sometimes just annoying.
  
  The crude humor and graphical gore/violence in this game is EXTENSIVE but i think that is what 
 makes Postal great. It's not so much sexual humor as you would think it's mostly violence-based 
 and when Gary Coleman himself goes on the rampage in one part of the game you just got to laugh.
 
  
  All in all it's a good game with some disturbing content but i can bear with it because I can do 
 whatever I want in this game and i simply like the idea. But still the graphics could be better 
 in the future.
  
  P. S, I don't mind the lack of plot in case you wonder. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FranKrig
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 19, 2006 10:32 pm PT
Review:  What I'd like to say is **** and then ***** but my best weapon is my ZIP and I use it for ***** 
 so they ***** and then they just ******. don't you like when they ****'*. I don't like that my 
 girl***** F***'* my dog and then I kick my ******* dog because my bi*** she is my 'n and I don't 
 like a Zoo in my ***** bed or in my b****. so I kicks my bog every morning.
  
  But the next day I ******* the neighbor and he's wife so that they ***** and puked all over me. 
 Then I just did ****** on them and all over the whole ******* area. But at the end I BLOW ED THEM 
 ALL UP and ******* Whit the rest of the corpses whit all lem's intact.
  
  the ****end ***** thats what I liked the most about the game. 
  Don't worry thees game is just 
 ******** exiting and to **** on the victims is not always lethal only to your self if you have 
 some deceases like for instance ***** ore ***** then it dose hurt a little and you can die of it. 
 
  
  Nb. I saw some one writing about some kids in the next version of the game, I really do not hope 
 he's rung. Kid's are not aloud to say ***** or heir ****** theer even not aloud to read things 
 like ****** they even can't imagine that a word like ******** dose exist so if they do see a game 
 like thees, they will be spoiled for life. 
  
  It's just a Grate game.
  But don't think that I'm a pervert or so. Okay after playing the game I'm really not so sure any 
 more my self.
  but anyway I'll give the game 9.0 all in all for the grate game-play maybe 10 be caught it's so 
 funny to play even my wife cant wait until I get the next part of the game, It's the only game 
 that she can't stop watching. 
  And I do really hope there is some one ready to sponsor my work her, so I'm able to pay a psychiatrist 
 for the both of us, the next time I have to play a game like this.
  
  Nb. now I'll newer go to the supermarket or visit the library again and banking I'm only able to 
 do on-line the rest my wife is forced to do alone, I simply don't have the nerves any more to do 
 so myself, but tomorrow he wil come here my psychiatrist and he says "we'll take it step by step" 
 first I must take a brake from gaming and maybe in a year or two I'm able to see my wife visiting 
 a supermarket but that's fare away from now so I don't think that it's really going to happen.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Iron_Knuckle666
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 12, 2006 10:36 pm PT
Review:  It's an underground-kinda game that lots of people don't know about, but to me it's perfect. I 
 can't think of anything that would make this game any better other than make it longer (witch they 
 did with Apolalyapse Weekend [the expansion pack] ) . This is one of the best games ever. I like 
 the freedom in it you can do whatever you want. You could complete the tasks peacefully or violently. 
 It's really funny and Postal Dude it exactly the character for the job. It's violent and vulgar 
 so it isn't for everyone, but if you like Grand Theft Auto you'll probably like this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bulldawg8879
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 7, 2006 4:13 pm PT
Review:  This game was quite a bit of fun though it did grow old near the end but i would still go back 
 to play the beginning areas of the game again. Its made to be pretty offensive to people that dont 
 have a sick sense of humor like the ability to pee on someone to make them vomit then shoot them 
 in the back of the head while they are puking. Or how u can taser someone causeing them to fall 
 to the ground twitching then take a shovel and knock there head off. The idea of playing the same 
 areas on a different day of the week is actually really cool since u get used to the locations 
 and begin to know your way around the area. basically the game has u going on chores for your wife 
 that involve getting milk for her or having gary colemen sign an autograph for her. They could 
 of made this game alot better than they did but its still a good game and its pretty darn short. 
 maybe 5-6 hours to beat it definatley worth it for under 10 dollars but now way for more than 30 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bfhdsbhf
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 25, 2006 8:24 pm PT
Review:  Postal 2 is a game made by running with scissors who are known for there violent games like the 
 original postal.
  
  Graphics: the graphics in postal 2 are good but nothing to run home about it uses the unreal engine 
 and has rag doll physics which can be quite funny and some times. The environments look a little 
 plain and the people look dated and not to good.
  
  Sound: This game realy shines in this department because all the pedestrians have countless amouts 
 of voice over so the react very nicely to each situation of carnage you cause.
  
  Gameplay: We all know that this is the most important part of any game and this game delivers.
 
  If you hate racism, piss and poo references, violence, animal abuse etc you can stop reading this 
 review but if your like me you know its a game so i find it very hilarious. 
  The basic gameplay of postal 2 is you play and man no name but called the postal dude and you basically 
 run around each day doing jobs that your wife tells you to do. 
  But the hook in this game is you can be as violent or non violent in this game so you can play 
 through this game without doing so much as touching another person but thats no fun and just because 
 your not violent doesn't mean that other people aren't.
  This game plays as a regular shooter but the weapons are very different than your average game.
 
  The weapons are very unique you start with regular weapons like a shovel stungun pistol, shotgun 
 machine gun but then the weird ones come such as a jerry can of gas, scissors, piss, weapon of 
 mass destruction (play the game to find out what that does) and the weirdest and coolest weapon 
 in the game is a cow head filled with anthax which when throw at people the start to vomit blood.
 
  
  Multiplayer: The game has multiplayer but its very lackluster and not many people play it to often. 
 The mp is basic in that it has deathmatch, team deathmatch, capture the babe instead of flag, and 
 who can get more bags of money these are ok at best and not very fun.
  
  Should you buy this: Well this is easy if you love dirty comedy and kill bill style violence than 
 do yourself a favor by picking this up with its expansion pack AW but if you hate the stuff i meantioned 
 than just aviod but know your missing a great sleeper hit. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: del2cool4all
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 8, 2006 4:30 pm PT
Review:  This game is as close to the gta series, but no cars or no complecated missions. This starts out 
 as simple missions, like the first level where you have to up your paycash from the bank, after 
 the fmv kicks in, all of a sudden, you are stuck with arm robbers with 12-gauge shotguns firing 
 at you. The game is just amazing for any one who is GTA fan, too bad for those in Swedan that they 
 can't play it. Missions are simple but the gun play against armed citizens, robbers/thugs, body 
 guards, cops and terrorist can give a change in difficulty in playing the game. Mutiplayer is okay, 
 but single player really kicks it to all the harm you can do to the citizens. My opinon is that 
 gamespot is WRONG did deserve the rating it has, this game had a wide open enviroment expanding 
 to different towns and citites for each day. Main characters voice and looks are a great match 
 to have someone's favorite character on a riot. This game deserve more of rating that it should 
 be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DangerD00m
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 18, 2006 10:37 pm PT
Review:  While postal 2 is a fun game it gets old too quickly. You can literally beat the game without ever 
 pulling out a gun. The whole thing is that you make it as violent as you want it, but it just feels 
 like that its all it has to offer. The game is pretty funny (violateing a cat to use as a silencer 
 and killing gary coleman is funny in my book) but i kinda feel like they try too hard sometimes. 
 also this game is really easy even on the hardest mode. All and all postal is a good stress releaver 
 and a pretty dencent game but there are much better shooters out there (like return to castle wolfenstien) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jadewizard
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 26, 2006 6:29 am PT
Review:  Graphics: Slowdowns and glitches on my computer, but then again, My computer is total crap. on 
 a better computor its probubly great.
  
  Sound: Pretty good, but some of the diolouge gets annoying. great gun sounds, they sound really 
 authentic
  
  Gameplay: Men Dressed as women, Guns, Cats for Silencers, Poo, Pee, Knocking peoples heads off 
 with shovels, Blood spouts from their head, you can light people on fire, and pee on them after 
 they burn! how cool are those things!
  
  Multiplayer: Great multiplayer. it kept me hooked until i had to go somewhere, which was 5 hours 
 after i started!
  
  Overall: Great game, but they need more diolouge, and more variety in the guns...
  
  oh yeah, 
 and they need to piss off jack thompson even more! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: peterslaing
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 18, 2006 12:23 pm PT
Review:  I'm not sure why Gamespot - and so many reviewers for that matter - took against this game so determinedly. 
 It's one of the few I've played to the end in some time (and that's not because it's "short") . 
 I played a patched version of Postal 2, rather than the Share the Pain update, but even this only 
 chalks up 6.2. It's interesting that the gamers' scores for both versions of the games are much 
 higher.
  The game play is among the most varied I've encountered in a while. Sure, you can just blast and 
 move on if you wish, but taking a little bit of time to explore and experiment pays dividends. 
 Unfavourable comparisons have been made with GTA3 but I think Postal 2 offers a far more varied 
 and interesting environment than the first-mentioned game. The missions are also more varied.
 
  Yes, it's sick, but no more so than other 18-certificate titles and it's always redeemed by black 
 humour. As for the jokes, they're generally good and frequently amount to superb, sharp satire.
 
  The graphics are generally very good, the sound is great, and the game crashed just once in many 
 hours of play. The patch for the original Postal 2 also cured the long load times between levels.
 
  There are a couple of nice surprises in store if you beat this game. I suggest you give it a chance. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Siylence
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 16, 2006 6:24 pm PT
Review:  I can't really explain it, but this game is too much fun. It's a blast pissing on people in a video 
 game. Weapons like shovels, gasoline, napalm, scissors, and even diseased cow heads... NO OTHER 
 GAME HAS THAT!
  Story? Oh yea, you do chores for your wife. Pick up milk, cash your check, go to the post office, 
 pay a ticket. It's insanely unique, I'd give it a 10 out of 10 if the graphics weren't that of 
 a Nintendo 64. It deserves a 10 for the time when it was released. I definately believe it's a 
 buy though, I mean... if anything... it looks good in your collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nodham
Rating: 5.8
Date: Jul 30, 2006 3:33 am PT
Review:  This game isn't very good. However, you owe it to yourself to try it. Taking place in a desert 
 town detached from reality, it follows the adventures of some "Dude" for one mundane week. Pick 
 up paycheck. Buy milk. Go to mall, get c-list celeb autograph. And so on. 
  However, nothing is as simple as it seems. For example, in a twist typical of the game's humour, 
 when you arrive at Running With Scissors' (the developers) headquarters, there is an angry mob 
 protesting in front. You will of course be attacked soon enough. I read on the box that you can 
 be as nice or evil as you wish, but the game doesn't give you much choice - sure you can be 'nice' 
 and not kick bystanders around, but most of the missions involve some faction or other shooting 
 at you, so you should probably squeeze off a few rounds their way, don't you think?
  The reason I urge you to try this game is that you've probably never played anything like it. The 
 feeling of total anarchy has never been conveyed through a game as well as this one. 
  This is the first game that simulates standing in line.
  There's an 'open fly' button. 
  Once 
 peed on, Gary Coleman pulls out an automatic weapon and starts running around firing at you. In 
 the typical all-american megamall.
  You'll attempt to get signatures with lines like "sign my stupid petition"
  
  This is the only 
 game where you have to pee in a cup to get your gonorrhea diagnosed and treated. 
  The gameplay, however, is quite simplistic and gets boring - go somewhere, get attacked, go home. 
 The only reason to play this is if you're into a wide range of gaming styles and want the experience. 
 "Yes, I played a game where I took a pee on someone and they threw up." So while I can't recommend 
 this for the gameplay, I can honestly say that if you can find this for *very* cheap (or borrow 
 it from someone) you may want to give it a... shot. The madness! The horror! The laughs... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SYdoggXxX
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 10, 2008 1:36 pm PT
Review:  I admit it, i loved razing hell and living in the shoes of a sociopath for a day or two. No, this 
 isn't a masterpiece of a game and frankly it gets old rather fast, but if you're looking for something 
 different (very different) and are able to look past the game's ultra offensive nature, then just 
 like me, you'll probably have a blast playing this game for a few hours.
  
  The main character, the "Postal Dude" is an arrogant maniac who you eventually grow to love, and 
 at moments he makes you think he's just misunderstood. Even though this game is a First Person 
 Shooter there's a lot of different elements that give it a different feel; you have your standard 
 FPS weapons, but there's also a police baton, an electric tazer, and a shovel (!) . Blowing the head 
 of some pig cop with your shovel can be quite satisfying, especially if you're not very fond of 
 them. The game features a very open ended playground that would have been a lot more enjoyable 
 to explore if there weren't that many loading times while entering different areas. It should be 
 noted though that this version has significantly shorter loading times than the original Postal 
 2.
  
  There's no limit to the chaos you can create; you can play the game as Mr. Nice guy and try to 
 get in as little trouble as possible or you can go on a massive killing spree. Regardless of how 
 you play, certain groups of people will always be hostile towards you, so it's questionable just 
 how long can you go on being a pacifist. At any rate, the game does a good job of laying all the 
 moral choices in your hands.
  
  The graphics in this game are a mixed pack. There's a lot of nice detail in the outdoor environments 
 but the indoors are a little empty and lacking life. The character models are somewhat decent, 
 but their animations are odd to say the least (although it's possible that was on purpose) ; there's 
 also the ocassional graphical glitch, but the visuals are overall ok.
  
  The sound is also a bit lacking, but what really saves this category is the Postal Dude's one liners; 
 they're all classics and even though they end up repeating a lot as you murder anything that moves, 
 you never grow tired of them. The actual sound of the weapons doesn't sound very realistic, but 
 it's still good enough. The one area that's really lacking is environment sounds. While there's 
 the occassional marching band roaming around the city, everything feels pretty lifeless and the 
 game could have used some cheesy soundtrack to keep up the tempo.
  
  Share The Pain adds a multiplayer component to the original campaign, but it's very basic and somewhat 
 worthless, since there were very few people playing the game online when it was released and I 
 doubt you'll find anyone today.
  
  Postal 2: Share The Pain is a decent enough game (ok, it's not a DECENT game) , that may freak out 
 some people due to its over the top content (this game is arguably more violent than the GTA series) , 
 and while the open ended, non-linear nature of the game grants you lots of freedom, it gets somewhat 
 stale eventually. Thankfully the game isn't long (it can be beaten in less than 5 hours if you 
 stick to the main errands) so it's not like you reach a point where you're just sick of playing, 
 so if you want to enjoy some wild, over the top gametime, this game may very well fit the bill. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HarukaSawaguchi
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 21, 2005 12:52 am PT
Review:  Postal 2 is a conterversial and underrated game. When it's not being bashed by the many people 
 who oppose violence in video games- it's being ignored and passed over because of what it is, and 
 the fact that many retail outlets refuse to sell it. Postal 2 doesn't have much of a story, other 
 than your a guy living a regular guys life when your psychotic wife decides to send you on some 
 errands. Not so bad is it?? Well, you're about to find out that your wife isn't nearly as psychotic 
 as you are. One simple thing, one simple person yelling a cuss word or chasing at you with a shovel 
 will turn you into a beast whose thirst for blood goes unquenched. You'll be given an array of 
 weapons, each with their own sick abilities. While more areas are unlocked and more things can 
 be done as you progress through the week, you don't have to do all of the errands. You can take 
 a break, go to prison, break out, kill all the other prisoners breaking out with a baton you found 
 while being disguised as a prisoner, go to the mall, beat the hell out of Gary Coleman, and set 
 marching bands on fire. What you do is your dicisicion. I would give it higher gameplay scores, 
 but unfortunatly postal 2 is short, and nearly every area comes with a price, a stinken load time. 
 but postal 2 is fun and highly addictive, I recommend you get it now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shub-Niggurath
Rating: 6.9
Date: Nov 13, 2005 1:26 pm PT
Review:  Postal 2: Share the Paintasteless, vulgar, violent, and pretty pointless. This is not a bad thing! 
 This is a great game for those days when youre just so POed that you cant take it anymore. Lets 
 get into the game and see how it works.
  
  You are Postal Dude (yep, thats his REAL NAME) , and as Mr. Dude you have to complete five days 
 of your life and accomplish errands for your wifegee that sounds fun. Anyway, these tasks are 
 things as simple as getting your paycheck (during which you get fired) , getting milk, picking up 
 an alternator for your '87 Difuque, and so forth. There are a few odd ones in there like getting 
 Gary Coleman's Autograph and picking up your Christmas tree and voting on the same day IN JULY. 
 There are always a myriad of ways to accomplish these tasks. Those which require payment can be 
 done as civil and nice as you want. Just pay and take your stuff. Or you can swear at the clerk, 
 shoot them, and take your stuff. The only thing is that this game isnt just as violent as you 
 are because certain missions put you in a place where you have to shoot or die trying. For example, 
 you end up having to enter the Employees Only area of the butcher shop to get your steaks and 
 you end up shooting it out with everyone. Then the cops show up. You can give in and get arrested 
 but you still had to shoot your way back to the steaks. The question of violence or not comes in 
 getting to and from each of the objectives. You can just pull out a weapon and mow down everyone 
 in your path. You can shoot dogs, cats, people, cops, and any other living thing in the area. The 
 only major gripe I have with this premise is that 5 days averaging 5 missions a piece translates 
 into one of the shortest games I have ever liked. Were talking less than 10 hours (perhaps even 
 coming in at under 8 hours) to actually accomplish your goals.
  
  As you accomplish these goals you begin to acquire hate groups. These are groups of citizens who 
 will attack and try to kill you on sight. I have not been able to round up said groups by simply 
 killing them on the street. They only pop up during your errands. Like after getting your paycheck 
 from Running With Scissors (The company responsible for Postal 2) the office is overrun with anti-video 
 game protestors. For a peaceful protest there sure were a lot of gun wielding nuts present. After 
 gunning your way out of the swarm they are now your enemy. This only happens a few times. From 
 that point on if they see you in the street they will try to kill you. If you shoot at them in 
 self defense and a cop sees you do it the cop will shoot at you. If you dodge the bullets and keep 
 your weapon holstered the cops go after the guy with the gun.
  
  The mechanics are very by the books for an FPS. Nothing too special here, just their own spin on 
 the game. You have a button to unzip your fly which enables you to urinate all over everything. 
 This includes people. The weapons are interesting. You have your common, garden variety pistol, 
 shotgun, M16-esque machine gun, sniper rifle (hunting rifle) , rocket launcher, napalm launcher, 
 and a shovel, police baton, and taser. The interesting one is the Diseased Cow Head. This is just 
 a severed cow head crawling with disease. Its very effective against large groups in tight spaces. 
 Throwing it causes it to spread it to let out a cloud of contagious disease for everyone to breathe. 
 The victims begin vomiting blood and eventually die. Nice touch. Still nothing too spectacular.
 
  
  The fun factor of this game is in just going fing crazy in the environment (which BTW is FRAUGHT 
 with loading screens, constant loading screens) . You can just grab a weapon and start shooting. 
 You bump into someone and they get rudeBLAM! No more rude person. You dont like the way someone 
 looksPOP! No more imbecile. Its an interesting premise.
  
  Sadlywith all of this going for it Postal 2: Share the Pain is too short and even replaying it 
 in Enhanced Mode cant compensate for this short coming. The game relies rather heavily on its 
 multiplayer to carry it through. I dont play much multiplayer so I dont have an opinion on this. 
 Either way, its a great game if you only play it once in a while when youre really in a bad mood. 
 It is fun while it lasts, but it should have lasted a lot longer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drswank
Rating: 5.6
Date: Oct 28, 2005 6:53 pm PT
Review:  Postal 2: Share The Pain really doesn't need any introduction. Arriving on store shelves almost 
 a year after the original game, Share the Pain addresses the issues seen in the original game as 
 well as adding multiplayer support through Gamespy arcade. Do these improvements help make Postal 
 2 a better game? Or is it a matter of too little or too late for what many consider a lackluster 
 game? I got a chance to replay through the single player game again as well as try my hand in the 
 multiplayer to see how these improvements fare. 
  
  For the uninitiated, Postal 2 is the successor to 1997s Postal, which was an exhibition of violence 
 and death and caused so much media attention that it helped pave the way for more adult-themed 
 games to get into the mainstream like the GTA series and going as far as to be banned from most 
 large retailers. Postal 2: Share the Pain is somewhat of a special edition of the original Postal 
 2 which was criticized for poor design, horrible load times, and general mediocrity all together. 
 Despite these flaws and the ho-hum reviews given, the game still did well and went as far as appearing 
 in a music video for the Black Eyed Peas. 
  
  The premise is this, you play the part of Postal Dude (yes, that's his real name) , a resident of 
 Paradise , Arizona . You follow him throughout the course of a week as he performs such menial 
 tasks such as buying milk, returning an overdue library book, or getting checked for VD. Along 
 the way, Postal Dude will get thrown into life or death situations with anti-violence activists, 
 middle easterners, book burners and your stereotypical rednecks. As a matter of fact, the entire 
 game plays off of stereotypes, from Habib the middle-eastern grocery store clerk to the aforementioned 
 rednecks and turban wearing Muslims. The way the game pulls these off can be tasteless and even 
 offensive at times and is not recommended for those who are offended at things like this. After 
 skirmishes with these groups, they'll jump at the chance to open fire on you in the street. Furthermore, 
 the game is wrought with a lot of toilet humor which some may not find funny at all. You might 
 see some amusing things written on walls or said by people in the city, but depending on your level 
 of humor, these could be few and far between. The game takes a queue from the GTA series and puts 
 you into a living, breathing town with pedestrians and animals walking around seemingly going about 
 their daily lives. By seemingly, I mean walking around aimlessly and having unintelligible conversations 
 with other pedestrians. All are practically begging for your punishment as you go about performing 
 your daily duties. 
  
  The game is played from a first person perspective. You control your character with the standard 
 W, A, S, D control scheme. Unlike GTA, you're only able to make your way across town on foot, while 
 cars are parked on the sides of streets but they only serve as nothing more than exploding props. 
 You'll have nine weapons at your disposal, including batons, shovels, pistols, gas can / matches, 
 shotguns, machine guns, scissors, rocket launchers, and the always popular diseased cow head. Unfortunately, 
 Share the Pain doesn't add any new weapons in the mix. That doesn't mean the current weapons aren't 
 sufficient, it's that some new weapons would be nice with the addition of the multiplayer modes. 
 You do have the option to make one limited enhancement to your weapons, you can stick cats on the 
 end of a shotgun to act as a noise suppressor and scissors can now bounce off of the walls like 
 the razor gun in Unreal Tournament. Share the Pain also boasts new game play fixes, and this seems 
 to be true. Load times have decreased somewhat and you don't seem to get stuck into as many objects 
 anymore. There still seems to be issues with scripts, so be prepared to save before you wait in 
 a line because if you cut, the script will break and you'll have to load your game and try again, 
 which seems to go against the freedom the game touts. This goes along with the game's questionable 
 AI. You can befriend dogs and have them follow you around and attack people or have them play catch 
 with a severed head, while this is cool, the same can't be said for the human AI, which seems to 
 have gotten worse with this release. You'll frequently see people stuck walking into walls, refusing 
 to run away when they're hit with a shovel  opting to cower in front of you, and breaking the 
 aforementioned scripts by mindlessly walking and getting stuck in people waiting in line. The latter 
 scenario can be maddening after the third try. Once is okay, twice is ridiculous, but three times 
 in unacceptable. 
  
  Rounding out the list of additions to this release are a couple of new areas for the player to 
 explore. The mall now has a food court and some air vents to crawl through, and the Tora Bora mountains. 
 
  
  The new multiplayer component (which was promised as a free add-on after the original game's release) 
 doesn't bring anything new to the table. You have your standard deathmatch, team deathmatch, and 
 snatch  Share the Pain's version of capture the flag where you'll have to capture the enemy team's 
 woman and piggy back her back to your base. In deathmatch, you have a limited choice of skins to 
 choose from while in snatch, you're assigned to a team consisting of cops, robbers, postal dudes, 
 clergy, etc. Once the game starts, you're given a hint that three shots to the head will be enough 
 to put down any foes and the game starts. The multiplayer levels don't offer much in terms of variety 
 as they are original and / or modified areas seen in the single player game and don't offer much 
 in terms of variety or fun at all. 
  
  Share the Pain isn't too much of a graphical power house despite being powered by the Unreal engine. 
 Environments in the game are passable; while outdoor areas generally look good, they look more 
 like a movie set and lack the openness of the GTA games. Indoor environments suffer though, sporting 
 nothing more than randomly placed book cases, tables, and some arcade games. Walls, floors, and 
 ceilings all feature boring, blurry textures and don't offer much aural excitement at all. Once 
 you've seen one house or office, you've seen them all. You will see some locations that offer something 
 different like a pool table, but those are sparse. Don't expect to see many, if any fancy lighting 
 effects or particles either; even with all of the settings turned up the game doesn't come close 
 to pushing the engine that's powering it. 
  
  Sound is standard fare. Pedestrians, as well as Postal Dude have a small variety of catch phrases 
 and dialog, and normally the voice acting is pretty good (an exception would be producer Vince 
 Desi as the multiplayer announcer, how tasteless is that?) . A lot of people complained about Postal 
 Dude's DJ voice, but it can be amusing as he's running down the list of what he has to do for 
 the day or when he's trying to get people to sign his petition on Tuesday. Weapons all sound decent, 
 especially the shovel which gives a satisfying ting sound when a head is severed, and resulting 
 explosions all sound good. 
  
  All-in-all, Postal 2: Share the Pain is an improvement over its predecessor in terms of game play 
 fixes. The addition of multiplayer support is welcome, but would have been better off as the free 
 add-on as was promised instead of making people who previously purchased the game buy a new product, 
 especially since the multiplayer support doesn't offer anything new or really exciting. At points, 
 Postal 2 seems like it's being offensive just for the sake of doing so. Some might even think its 
 games like this that are setting the industry back and keeping it from being taken seriously in 
 the eyes of politicians. If you love low brow humor and have never heard of the Postal series, 
 or want to see what all the hype is about, this is the version you'd want to pick up. There is 
 some semblance of a solid game play experience in there. Still, these improvements and the included 
 multiplayer support do little to make Postal 2 more than a mediocre game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BloodWerewolf
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 19, 2005 11:56 am PT
Review:  If you like the feeling of blasting anyone and everyone in the Grand Theft Auto games, you will 
 not be disappointed with this game. However, unlike Grand Theft Auto, you cannot drive cars but 
 you get access to weaponry that makes Manhunt look babyish.
  Right from the get-go in Share The Pain, you can see how amazing the game looks, almost similar 
 to Half-Life 2's graphics. You begin with nothing but can grab a shovel nearby, which is one of 
 over twenty weapons in the game. Molotovs, a canister filled with flammable gasoline, an anthrax 
 infested cow head, an RPG, your own piss, a shotgun, an M4, scissors and a stun gun are all available 
 for you to wreck havoc on innocent people with.
  During the game, you must complete about twenty objectives ranging from picking up a carton of 
 milk to getting people to sign a petition. Along the way, you can blow things up or just play around 
 with your weapons. In fact, when you reach Friday in the game, you can pretty much forget the objectives 
 and concentrate on blowing the guts out of things. If you do, it will show in your end-game rating.
 
  Overall, despite some physics that don't feel right and the hilarious crude humor and people giving 
 you the finger, Postal 2: Share the Pain is a game that is too much fun to ignore. By the way, 
 you can also wreck havoc in the online multiplayer as Gary Coleman and a multitude of other people 
 you meet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PsychoLord13
Rating: 9.8
Date: Aug 17, 2005 2:00 am PT
Review:  OK, tell me if this sounds fun. You are some guy who has to do some things like buying milk and 
 picking up/cashing his paycheck and of course, returning an overdue library book and getting a 
 christmas tree. It doesn't? I didn't think so. However, the twist is that you can do this in anyway 
 you want. The line to pay the cashier for the milk carton a bit long? Try unzipping your pants 
 to get someone to pull out a gun and cause a panic, or just attempt to steal the darn thing and 
 end up shooting your way out. Did you get sick of the line at the bank and end up shooting the 
 teller? Just rob the Bank and hold on to the check for another day. The game is simply a real world 
 environment that allows you to do things you've probably thought of doing in real life, but without 
 worrying about consequences. Please, if you don't mind some violence and coarse language, then 
 go at least try the demo, and if you like it, it's only 10 bucks on amazon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gogiants46
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 2, 2005 4:52 pm PT
Review:  If there is has been one game in the last few years that has caused alot of controversy among parents 
 and politicians alike, it is Postal 2. A game in which your daily objective is to perform chores, 
 but in any fashion you would like. This could be something as simple as picking up milk from the 
 local gorcery store, but the twist is that you can (as the game says) "pay $5 dollars or ... not!" 
 Let's say you decide to pay, you simply go up to the Arabic man working the front counter and press 
 the key, thus paying him the five dollars. Now lets try it the other way, you decide not to pay, 
 you slowly make your way towards the front door but just when you get there the man behind the 
 counter yells something and huge metal doors come crashing down, thus trapping you in the gorcery 
 store. What to do? Before you can think through the situation, the guy behind the counter kicks 
 open his door and hunts you down with an M-16! Your only choice is to fight back, you pull out 
 your shovel and proceed to maliciously beat down the terrorist behind the counter until his head 
 flies from his shoulders and blood squirts from the wound. It is completely up to you how violent 
 this game can be. This is just one example of one day, the game's story will last seven days, each 
 day you have a few new tasks to perform, each one more or less the same, but in it's own right.
 
  
  Now the graphics, the game's graphics are pretty basic, some nice textures but poor character models, 
 make the game nice looking, but nothing special. The fire and explosions are relatively lack luster 
 as well, while the game tries to do somethings right, like the buildings and guns, the characters 
 fall short of the mark. The sound is on par with the graphics, nice gun sounds and pretty good 
 voice acting, the overall atmosphere is boring, no out side ambiance noises to speak of, but when 
 in certain stores or buildings the game's music shines. There is also a multiplayer mode, which 
 can pretty fun. While they are pretty basic, it is still a lot of fun to play as Gary Coleman (yes, 
 the midget from 'Different Strokes') , the postal dude, the redneck and a truck load of others, 
 the multiplayer is never boring.
  
  Overall the game is fun, while the graphics are nothing to write home about, the game's variety 
 and the fact that is is different from anything your ever likely to play makes it worth owning. 
 The game is not for young childern or the weak of heart as you can do many things that should never, 
 NEVER, even be though of, let alone put in a video game. But if you are looking for someone naughty 
 fun, look no further than Running with Scissors's "Postal 2"!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: equuleus102
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 29, 2005 4:43 am PT
Review:  I bought this "Postal 2: Share the Pain" about a year ago for under $10 (CAD) , and I found this 
 game to be really fun for about a few weeks or so. Think of this game as a novelty, it's a blast 
 to decapitate civilians with a shovel and give cats shotgun enemas (Sorry P. E. T. A.) , but it gets 
 a little boring after you've done it a few-hundred times.
  
  This game looks very nice, especially considering it's using the now obsolete "Unreal Warfare" 
 engine. The game also plays very nice, using typical PC-FPS controls.. this gives it an easy learning 
 curve. One of the best parts of the game are the voices! Your main character; "Postal Dude" is 
 absolutely hilarious, and with guest voices of Gary Coleman.. it's fantastic!
  
  This game doesn't skimp on the weapons either, you have a selection of numerous weapons: urine, 
 a shovel, police batons, tasers, a handgun, a shotgun, a carbine that resembles an M4A1, gasoline 
 can and matches, fragmentation grenades, Molotov cocktails, scissors, cow heads filled with anthrax, 
 a scoped rifle, a rocket launcher, a biohazardous rocket launcher, and last but not least, a napalm 
 launcher. 
  
  The storyline is pretty weak, you carry out 5 days of errands for your menopausal wife. That pretty 
 much sums up the storyline. The best part of the game would be the free-roaming world, it's like 
 a more vulgar GTA without the actual theft of vehicles, but at least you can blow them up!
  
  I'd recommend this game to anyone who isn't really offended easily and is looking for some 
 real fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kmilo_rws
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 29, 2004 4:29 pm PT
Review:  Postal 2: Share The Pain tries to combine the freedom and open ended gameplay of the GTA series 
 with lots of blood, humor, and... long loading times.
  
  You play as the Postal Dude, who has to do errands for his... wife. But you can do it the "civilized" 
 way, or the sadistic, violent way. You don't even have to do the errans! You can enter anybody's 
 house, go to the clinic, police station, compound, even Osama's hideout.
  
  An example: You have to buy milk. You don't want to spend $5 or you don't want to wait on the line. 
 What do you do? You escape through the back door. But nobody told you that there were 10 taliban 
 women armed to the teeth waiting for you there. What now? Escape through a secret duct. But there 
 are zombie dogs down there. You run from them until you reach the exit. 
  Another example: See those people there insulting you? Cut their heads off with your shovel. Then 
 kick the corpses and make a pile of 'em. Throw them gasoline and walla! A nice fire! Moments later 
 you're wreacking havoc in the police station.
  
  Your arsenal varies from your typical pistol, shotgun, machine gun and rocket laucher, to a shovel, 
 tazer, napalm launcher, your foot, scissors... even you can use cats as silencers and piss people 
 just to watch them puke!
  
  The graphics are good. The characters are well made, and the environments too, only the interior 
 of the houses look repetitive. The liquids effects are great. Piss down a hill, or in the walls, 
 or even on the roof. Amazing!
  
  The sound effects of the weapons are average, the machine gun being the ideal example. The voice 
 acting is good. Watch the people scream and insulting themselves! The music... there's no music.
 
  
  Not to mention the multiplayer's "capture the flag" with a little twist... unfortunately I couldn't 
 play because of the high pings (there's no server near Chile) .
  
  I found this game really funny and gorgeous. Maybe it has some design problems (bugs here and there, 
 the house interiors are horrible, objects fall thorugh the ground) but it still makes a great game, 
 all things considered. There's a joke around every corner!
  
  Some people complain there are no cars to be driven. Cars? Who needs cars when you have a diseased 
 cow head filled with anthrax! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Epicsoldier
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 26, 2004 2:06 am PT
Review:  This game is one of the funnist games i've played in along time, the game is funny, then things 
 you have to do, the stuff that happens... it's funny, what people say, just walking around pissing 
 and lighting people on fire is fun, hitting then with shovels is the best. The single player mode 
 will have you doing the weirdest things, but they are fun. although the game can be hard at times, 
 it's still fun, but it's short.
  
  You go through a straight week, in the game, and do a number of different things, which will have 
 you going all over the map everywheres. The weapons are great, and fun to use on people. However, 
 all this fun and big maps have a dissadvange.... the load times, theres alot of them... and they 
 are long. But once you get past that, the graphics are nicely done, and sounds are good, and the 
 gameplay is good. THe multiplayer is ok, not the best ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Luzzu
Rating: 7.2
Date: Aug 24, 2004 9:31 am PT
Review:  Postal 2: Share the Pain certainly isn't the greatest game you'll ever play, although it may seem 
 like it during your first encounter with the game. The game throws some antics at you such as being 
 able to sever a wandering bystander's head off, urinating on them, and then subsequently setting 
 fire to them. All of which are pretty comical in your first few times of doing so, and afterwards 
 become tiresome and tedious.
  
  In your time going though the game you have a set of errands given to you that you must complete 
 to advance on. Most of these errands are also pretty silly and set you up for something even more 
 ridiculous once you set off to do them. The errands given to you range from retrieving a carton 
 of milk, confessing your sins, and using your father's grave as your own personal bathroom. The 
 game also tries to institute 'choice' in some of these errands, such as either waiting in line 
 or annihilating each person in front of you to hasten the process. Basically, the core game is 
 short-lived fun that is sometimes resurrected in parts of the game which otherwise becomes mostly 
 dull.
  
  The online multiplayer component really saves the game from mediocrity by adding a better, funner, 
 mode of gameplay. When online you have the option of either competeting or playing in snatch, grab, 
 deathmatch, or team deathmatch. I spent most of my time here, even though I did finish the game, 
 and playing online makes for a bit of a different experience than what the single player campaign 
 has to offer. So, either way you'll probably find something to like in Postal 2, especially if 
 your improbable of becoming bored with taking a whiz on random people and lighting them on fire. 
 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
