-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Post Mortem
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/adventure/postmortem/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Feb 28, 2003
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.7
Critic Score: 7.2, 32 Review (s)
User Score: 7.3, 268 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: The Adventure Company
Developer: Microids
Genre: Adventure
Date:     Feb 27, 2003
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Post Mortem doesn't put enough emphasis on its own interesting features, and the rest of the time, 
 it's just another formulaic adventure. 

 In the newly released graphical adventure game Post Mortem, you play as Gustave MacPherson, a former 
 private eye. Gustave is an American expatriate living in Paris and trying to eke out a living as 
 a painter. When contacted about a strange murder by a stereotypically mysterious dame named Sophia 
 Blake, he cracks easily. Though you, as Gustave, are allowed to say "no" to the would-be client, 
 eventually you'll have to take the case... unless you actually want to pace back and forth in Gustave's 
 tiny studio for the remainder of the game. The fact that you have the option to turn down Ms. Blake's 
 offer is interesting and shows one of Post Mortem's best features: Specifically, the choices you 
 make while conducting your investigation actually affect the game, presenting new puzzles, new 
 solutions, and new destinations based on what you do and when you do it. While the system doesn't 
 work so well in this instance, in other situations it does, and in one particularly inspired section 
 of the game, it actually, single-handedly, keeps Post Mortem from being just another rote adventure 
 game. Unfortunately, the game doesn't generally put enough emphasis on its own interesting features, 
 and the rest of the time, it's just another formulaic adventure.           Post Mortem doesn't 
 have many traditional puzzles.    

  The inspired sequence mentioned above involves a scene in which Gustave tracks down a primary suspect 
 in the beheading of two American tourists. He and the suspect sit and talk, and the game suddenly 
 places you in the role of the suspect. You control his actions on the day of the murder, and what 
 you do affects what information is available to Gustave once the flashback ends. It's an interesting 
 take on the normal investigative adventure game formula and is one that may lead you to believe 
 the whole game will be a series of similar flashbacks. Unfortunately, this is the only time it 
 happens, and the rest of the game is just a typical series of sealed doors with mysterious machines 
 for locks.   

  Not that there are many sealed doors. For an adventure game, Post Mortem has a notable lack of 
 traditional puzzles. There are only a handful, and most of them are fairly easy, with two exceptions. 
 One puzzle, the game's best, involves deciphering an alchemical formula and then using it to create 
 a mysterious compound. It's fairly difficult, if only because it requires several layers of deciphering 
 to even understand what you need to do. But it makes sense in the context of the game, a rare thing 
 in modern adventure games. On the other hand, Post Mortem also includes what may be the single 
 most boring puzzle ever devised -- one that requires you to slowly drag a lit candle over a painting 
 over and over again until hidden images reveal themselves.   

  This lack of puzzles indicates another problem with Post Mortem: It's surprisingly short. The only 
 things that keep it from being less than 10 hours long are the lengthy dialogue sections, which 
 unfortunately can't be sped up or skipped. The dialogue is decent, but occasionally you're given 
 access to information that you haven't learned yet. When you first meet with Sophia Blake, for 
 instance, you can ask about her "sister's murder" before you even learn anything about the murder. 
 This is a minor problem, though. The major problem is that the voice acting is plodding, as if 
 everyone involved agreed that repeated and stilted pauses would make everyone sound more dramatic. 
 Seriously -- characters speak so slowly they make William Shatner sound like a hyperactive auctioneer 
 at a county fair. Moreover, both the French and American characters speak with the same sort of 
 fake, overenunciated English (and, strangely, everyone pronounces the word "heir" as "hair") . The 
 voice acting is poor in general -- including elderly women that sound exactly like young women trying 
 to sound like elderly women and failing -- but, sadly, that's almost an expectation in contemporary 
 adventure games. Neither are the graphics noteworthy. The backgrounds are muddy and dull, and the 
 characters move like marionette footage set on an endless loop. Though they look fine, after watching 
 their standard animation -- touch eyeglasses, wave hands, repeat -- a dozen or so times, it becomes 
 tiring.           Much of the game consists of an endless maze of dialogue trees.    

  The plot, too, offers nothing unexpected. Though it starts off like a typical tale of murder and 
 betrayal like  The Maltese Falcon , it eventually turns to the supernatural. It would be a spoiler 
 to tell you the story unfolds to reveal a connection to the Knights Templar, if it weren't for 
 the fact that every adventure game set in Europe since Circle of Blood has unfolded to reveal a 
 connection to the Knights Templar. Post Mortem is self-conscious enough to make a joke about typical 
 adventure game plots (at one point Gustave sarcastically asks someone about lost civilizations) , 
 but it apparently isn't self-conscious enough to avoid these clich plots itself.   

  Hopefully Post Mortem's developers will take note of their game's particular strengths and incorporate 
 them in another game that will elaborate on the innovative ideas that are presented here but not 
 explored. Post Mortem is a decent adventure game, and fans of the genre who are easily pleased 
 will find it simple and short, but entertaining while it lasts. But it's the occasional appearance 
 of something different -- the alternate solutions, the flashback through another's eyes -- that makes 
 most of Post Mortem seem dull and typical in comparison.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (5 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Dr_Spielmann
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 4, 2006 11:07 pm PT
Review:  Post Mortem is not a bad game, unfortunately, that's not enough these days. It begins to show its 
 age in many of its details, such as some characters in the background that are only bitmap images, 
 totally static.
  
  Save for the nicely done cut-scenes, the game is a very simple dvd-player style adventure (the 
 kind where you jump around, from location to location, rather than pointing and clicking over 2D 
 backgrounds to move true 3D characters, like Syberia, for example, and it's light-years away from 
 modern 3D adventures like Dreamfall) . Its puzzles are slightly easier than average.
  
  The characters and things you can interact with are 3D, though, and while most of the time the 
 game looks fine enough, there are some situations where the mix between 2D backgrounds (in some 
 locations they are simple flat images, and at some point you just have to think that the developers 
 were far too lazy to improve them a bit) and 3D objects or characters is horrendous. Despite that, 
 the game plays fine, it's not overly complicated (but still challenging enough) , and it's got some 
 interesting music (although after a while it does become repetitive sometimes and a bit annoying 
 - specially when you are stuck on a puzzle while listening to the same background sound loop again 
 and again...) The game has some nice scary moments, sometimes truly hair-raising. It's more of 
 a psychological type of terror, you get scared of the flashbacks and visions that you see on the 
 screen sometimes, the scenes of the murder (from the beginning) are truly disturbing, so careful 
 with who plays this game - it's not for kids!! I jumped on my chair several times while playing 
 - but, to be honest, i easily jump on my chair even with mildly scary games.
  
  All in all, it's a decent adventure game, not specially nice or horrendously bad, it's just got 
 nothing to do with Syberia (a shame, because we all love Syberia, don't we?) and it shows its age. 
 While it can still be played fairly well, when you realize the limitations of its graphics engine 
 it kind of leaves you half-satisfied. I seriously was expecting something more.
  
  But Post Mortem is neither bad, nor brilliant. The best thing is that it doesn't require a powerful 
 machine to run it, some cinematic scenes look nice, it's a by-the-book 100% traditional point &amp; 
 click adventure, the interface is extremely easy to use and the story is, well... yet another take 
 at Broken Sword (mysticism, murders, Paris, detectives...) so it is likely to appeal to adventure 
 fans - if they are not bored of going through the same stories again and again.
  
  I got slightly disappointed when i bought this game (good thing it's now for next-to-nothing on 
 budget editions) because it advertises itself with made by the authors of Syberia - and indeed 
 it doesn't have anything to do with Syberia. I was expecting the same kind of engine and interface, 
 and it's a much older-looking adventure game.
  
  Still Life is a much better game, with a similar story, and it's done better. There are plenty 
 of similarities between Still Life and this game, only that Still Life has proper 3D models and 
 a much less outdated technology.
  
  Anyway, if you REALLY like adventure games about murders, strange mystical forces and private detectives, 
 then get this game as it's really cheap now and you'll possibly enjoy it, providing that you don't 
 have any other new games to play. If I was to choose, I'd rather get Still Life, but if you have 
 finished that and are desperate to play something similar - if older - then Post Mortem can be 
 a nice&amp; cheap option. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joe_calzone
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 12, 2006 1:47 pm PT
Review:  There's just one word which perfectly describes this game: ugly. Despite the potential intriguing 
 story, the poor technical realization totally wastes what could have been a great adventure.
  
  What's so poor? The models of the characters, their animations, the graphics of the locations, 
 the sound and the music and most of all: the fact that when talking to a character he or yourself 
 will end up saying things completely unrelated to the situation or referring to facts not revealed/happened 
 yet spoiling and ruining everything. You'll have very hard time in following the story and trying 
 to understand something due to this nasty glitch. Sum to this the annoying amount of combination 
 puzzles with a trial&amp; error mechanic (and some are really overcomplicated for the amount of 
 clues they offer) . Combine this with the non-linearity of the game, add backtracking and the result 
 you get is a real mess.
  
  A good potential which not only remained such, but has even been depleted. An outstanding example 
 of how not to make an adventure game. This game is definitely not recommended. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Andy_Dark
Rating: 7.1
Date: Mar 1, 2006 9:29 am PT
Review:  This is an example of an average game in all aspects. It's not bad... But it's also not great!.... 
 
  It may even get a little boring at times, but you quickly find something interesting a few moments 
 later. It's a nice entertainment, keeps you mildly interested until the conclusion, but unfortunately 
 there's nothing too great in it. 
  The mystery is there, it starts off well, but then it just seems to get a bit too easy. The graphics 
 are OK but look a little dated at times. The sound is average, although it will become annoying 
 after a while. I recommend it for the die-hard adventure / interactive fiction fans 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jwells
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 5, 2005 11:20 am PT
Review:  In a world where games have become more and more focused on abilities and less on story, this game 
 takes the opposite approach. The detective protagonist never seems to figure out what is going 
 on, and to tell the truth, I had trouble following the story myself. At first, I though that I 
 am just getting older, and my brains weren't working properly. But then I read the gamespot review, 
 and realized that the strange dialog tree mechanics may have been the cause of my problem. There 
 were *many* times that I was scratching my head at one of my possible choices of response, having 
 no idea what it was talking about. Made me think I had completely forgotten some vital piece of 
 plot. Turns out, instead, it was just a poorly designed dialog tree.
  
  Weirdly, even with the story being somewhat strange because of the dialog trees, it was still a 
 better story, with nice multiple endings than the usual game fare these days. To tell the truth, 
 I only bought the game because it was a sort of pre-cursor for another game (Still Life) . So, in 
 the vein that it provides a little hors d'oeuvre that is only nominally related to the other game, 
 it has been a good experience for me. It was short, had interesting characters, and a story that 
 was probably better than it was presented.
  
  The puzzles were nice and simple (except for one) and well integrated. The characters you meet 
 and play are interesting and believable. The voice acting was good enough. Character development 
 was a bit underdone - but in a short game like this there isn't much time for that anyway. I would 
 say this game is not as good as the original Syberia, but better than Syberia 2. All in all, worth 
 buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jackie103
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 30, 2003 1:01 am PT
Review:  Microids has once again out done themselves. Fantastic graphics, excellent sound and easy gameplay. Though 
 the game could be a little more mysterious and adventurous it was fun. A few more levels of play 
 would be nice as add-ons and would add value to the game. I reviewed and played Post Mortem on a 
 Gateway 3.0
  mhz game machine, Windows-XP operateing system on a second HD. and a Alienware AMD machine with 
 top rate graphics systems ATI Wonder and NVIDIA boards. Slower machines may have graphic and sound 
 issues. All in all it is a little more than most of the bang bang and such type games out there 
 these days. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
