-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Postal 2
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/postal2/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr 15, 2003
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 4.8
Critic Score: 5.9, 36 Review (s)
User Score: 7.3, 1,582 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Whiptail Interactive
Developer: Running W Scissors
Genre: Modern First-Person...
Date:     Apr 14, 2003 &raquo;  
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Postal 2 strings together a bunch of violent novelties without ever constructing a compelling game 
 for them to support. 

  Released in 1997, the ultraviolent Postal almost immediately became a lightning rod for controversy. 
 Senator Joe Lieberman decried it in Congress, it was banned in several countries, and developer 
 Running With Scissors has been sued by the US Postal Service. Postal 2 continues the tradition 
 of calculated offensive content, but this time faces a challenge much greater than angry politicians, 
 antsy retailers, or the Postal Service. The enormous success of Grand Theft Auto III -- which covers 
 much of the same antisocial ground, only with more style, wit, and overall technical competence, 
 as well as better gameplay -- makes Postal 2 irrelevant right out of the gate. Essentially, Postal 
 2 strings together a bunch of violent novelties without ever constructing a compelling game for 
 them to support.  

          You can expect to see this loading bar a lot.     

  Taking a cue from the Grand Theft Auto series, Postal 2 plays out in a large clockwork city that 
 you're free to explore while pursuing a string of missions. The missions are segmented across a 
 period of five days. You must complete certain goals each day in order to advance to the next time 
 period. These goals take the form of commonplace errands such as going to the bank, buying milk, 
 getting your gonorrhea treated, or delivering a gift to your uncle. Following the recent trend 
 of paid public humiliation as a sort of retirement fund for celebrities, one of your errands is 
 to acquire an autograph from former child star Gary Coleman, who is played by the actual Gary Coleman. 

  These goals form the basis of the game's one truly funny idea: Postal 2 can be completed without 
 ever resorting to violence. For instance, if you need to cash a check, you can either wait in line 
 for five minutes or cut to the front by decapitating all the other customers with a shovel. Violence 
 will sometimes erupt around you, but you always have the option of running away -- though this option 
 becomes significantly less viable in the second half of the game.  

  Unfortunately, this starting concept is about as clever as the game gets. There's a joke around 
 every corner, but with a few exceptions -- such as an anti-book protester carrying a sign that reads 
 "Hitler Wrote a Book!" -- they all fall flat. However, some people will at least be impressed by 
 the game's sheer number of groin- and butt-inspired puns.  

  Postal 2's gameplay never manages to do any better than the game's clever initial concept, either. 
 Though you can explore the rest of the city between missions, there isn't much reason to do so. 
 The entire single-player game can be finished in about 10 hours. Once you've finished that (and 
 have possibly conducted a few murderous rampages to see what they're like) , you'll probably be 
 done with the game. Unlike Grand Theft Auto III, Postal 2 has no cars to drive, though decorative 
 cars are scattered around the city and create fairly large explosions when destroyed, much like 
 the exploding barrels found in other first-person shooters. This should be a lesson for future 
 clockwork city game designers: Urban mayhem is much less satisfying without vehicles you can drive. 

  The nonviolent solutions to Postal 2's mission goals aren't in any way interesting, and the combat 
 is much too sloppy to be engaging. Fighting generally involves running up to an enemy and discharging 
 your weapon as close to his or her face as possible. According to the game's documentation, Postal 
 2 supports a locational damage system, but it's spotty at best. A bullet to the head rarely appears 
 to do more damage than a shot to the leg. Your computer-controlled enemies don't exhibit much grace 
 under fire -- they'll generally shoot at you from a fixed position or run right for you, though they'll 
 occasionally flee in terror (and while fleeing, they'll periodically peer back over their shoulders, 
 which is a nice little detail) . Otherwise, most of Postal 2's combat seems like it could have come 
 straight out of a run-of-the-mill shooter from five years ago.  

  Unlike Grand Theft Auto III's virtually seamless environment, Postal 2's city is segmented into 
 small chunks, each requiring 30 seconds to a full minute to load. The load time really cuts into 
 whatever other enjoyment Postal 2 might have otherwise provided. Since you have the run of the 
 city, you'll often cross these transitions six or seven (or more) times while on an errand. It's 
 not uncommon to have to sit through a 40-second load time, walk 10 feet, and then be stuck with 
 a 30-second load time. Not only does this constant loading take you out of the game, but it also 
 discourages you from doing any kind of exploration that isn't immediately relevant to your current 
 mission.  

          Postal 2 is the first shooter to simulate waiting in line.     

  Postal 2's graphics are powered by the latest version of the Unreal engine, and the exterior areas 
 look good. However, the game's interior areas seem as if they weren't completely finished. The 
 insides of buildings feature lots of empty space, little decoration, simple geometry, and ugly, 
 repetitive textures. Against the trend set by other recent games, the gore in Postal 2 is surprisingly 
 subdued. You can decapitate people, but, for better or worse, there's nothing that compares to 
 Soldier of Fortune 2's level of graphic gore.  

  We live in a world in which the extremely violent Grand Theft Auto III not only succeeded on its 
 own terms, but also become an accepted part of the pop-culture landscape. It's clear that Postal 
 2's developers attempted to make an outrageous game to get everyone's attention, but these days, 
 even a game like this requires great gameplay to accompany its naked bid for infamy, something 
 the game's designers seem to have failed to realize.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (72 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Templar_999
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 3, 2009 5:15 pm PT
Review:  Honestly, im not sure why this has gotten such a low rating, i played it and thought it was decent, 
 oh though i will defantly say, this is not a game for kid's at all for it is extreamly violent 
 at time's,
  
  Storyline 7/10 ok, for a free roaming game
  
  its pretty simple, your in this small yet largley explorable town and your this guy named the postal 
 DUDE or something relavent to that (it really dosent matter since you never hear the protagonist 
 name ever being used) anyway your this guy who basicly go's through a week of random missoin's 
 doing random thing's such ascollecting milkorget your pay checkas boring as this sound's... this 
 guy has the ultimate freedom to do it anyway way he want's ( which most people will most likely 
 decide to pull out your gun's and literaly start shooting everything ) GTA style but possibly better 
 in gameplay aspect and less traveling around, but basicly this game is about freedom and the main 
 focus is gameplay,
  
  Gameplay 10/10 pretty much the game itself
  
  this is mainly why the game get's it's edge, this guy has the ultimate freedom to do almost anything, 
 you can enter people's house's, break window's, grab gun's like m14's and shotgun's to throw in 
 your endless invertory, rob a bank, anything you think of you can do in real life, but while only 
 being in a game, this might sound plain, however its excuted very well, you take a decent amount 
 of bullet's and so will your target's, there are cop's that will try and stop you to if they see 
 you do something unlawfull ( till a certian time limit untill they give up looking for you ) and 
 sometime's normal people themself's will carry gun's to defend themself's or crazy protester's, 
 what's also nice the weapon's in this game are very well done in power and sound's, thing's can 
 get bloody pretty quick if you decide to launch napalm across the street or throw a granade into 
 a dance club, what else is fairly interesting the AI is also well done, they can tell when you 
 bump into them, will scream if they see you pull out a gun, will know how to hit you when firing 
 a gun, and will even interact with other AI at time's or even start shooting at each other as well 
 and your free to watch or help or loot after there done at your desire, the cop's will also try 
 to stop the AI as if it was really there job's, not to mention this game has some great dialog 
 mostley pretianing to the protagonist whenever soemthing happen's, he usually has soemthing interesting 
 or halrious to say, with everything said... this game's gameplay is for fun while maintaining decent 
 realistic measure's if this was real life,
  
  Graphic's 8/10 good
  
  nothing breath taking but really not bad ether, people look like people, several diffrent model's 
 and clothing type's are made for everyone, and the area's look's like what its supposto be, to 
 be short and clear, it look's like real life through a digital camera thats not high quailty,
 
  
  Music 7/10 hmm..
  
  well... you dont here music peice's to often in this game... and when you do actually hear some they 
 do match there place, but for the most part, you dont hear any music, because well, you dont really 
 need it, and its more realistic, and im sure people dont want to hear peacefull music or switching 
 to war music during there gameplay would probaly kill the mood of the situation compared to having 
 none, i personally think it's a good choice to leave music out but for other people... it might 
 disturb them,
  
  Replay value 9/10 as expected
  
  the main reason you'd play this again is to simpily have fun, really nothing more or less, there 
 is a nice amount of land to explore keeping you away from the storyline while secrate place's to 
 serch and find for that you probaly have passed consisting of weaponry reward's and such that could 
 keep you busy for hour's and hour's even over 100 making your money's worth,
  
  
  final word's... postal 2 has really great and fun gameplay making it sadly realistic of what a serial 
 killer would do, but again i cant strees this enough, this game is not kid's at all probaly under 
 16, and im very sure gamespot is wrong on this one to give it a 4.8, as for some other's who have 
 agreed with gamespot, i must say, this game isnt ment to be taken on so seriously, it actually 
 seem's to fullfill it's actuall purpose of just being a game of, just play it and dont follow on 
 set procedure's, reguardless... i sense the flaming heading my way heh 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Elmo-Korvo
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 11, 2009 4:28 am PT
Review:  Nothing more to say really, if you don't like it, take a look at the release date :) Try to appreciate 
 it for what it is. For people like me who very much enjoy just creating random mayhem, like the 
 people that have spent 5 times as much of the time they used on the story line on Grand theft auto 
 just going about doing random stuff, well.... Then this is the game for you :D
  
  *No need to say more*
  BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH 
 BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH 
 BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH 
 BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH 
 BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH 
 BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH *No need 
 to say more* 
::::::

::::::
UserName: geo_1989
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 14, 2008 5:01 am PT
Review:  Postal 2 is like every serial killers dream this is the only way to describe it outlandishley funny 
 in every department and very, very violent. You as the DUDE or should is say (The Postal Dude) 
 there is no sense to this game in many ways its a bad version of Grand Theft Auto but saying that 
 it is stil very entertainng in most parts. I do beleive that RWS did not intend to make a serious 
 game and they have succeded, Postal 2 is like a cross between Soldgier of Fortune and an epsidoe 
 of South Park, mission objectives are very basic, in one mission you will need to get some milk 
 from the shop and in another you will need to get 5 people to sign a petiton but for the most part 
 you will be going round hitting people with your spade and watching their body bounce like a rag 
 doll.
  
  The storyline is pathetic because their isent one its just mindless violence the whole way thorugh, 
 altohugh the game tends to change a litle towards the end iof the game which is for the worst in 
 my opinon. If you buy this gamw dont be expecting a hyper realstic storyline with brillant cutscenes 
 and dialoug along with brillant Ai because Postal 2 is nothing short of a laugh END OF. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: godofhell2
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 30, 2008 6:21 am PT
Review:  Positive
  - Crazy game with crazy missions
  - Some superb weaponry
  - Many ways to kill a person
  - First game that makes you wait in lines
  
  Negative
  - 
 Horrible music
  - Missions are fun, but nothing exciting
  - Some glitches and bugs here and there
  - Load zone are awesomely annoying and frequent
  - 
 Too easy most of your way out
  - Short
  
  Postal 2 is an ultraviolent first-person shooter which is not recommended for children or does 
 who are seeking political careers. The game isn't not so bad, if you don't make its many shortcomings 
 and annoying parts. Postal 2 has been banned from several countries because of its insane violence.
 
  
  The missions in Postal 2 are everyday things. The game starts on Monday and continues till the 
 end of the week. Your first mission is to pick up milk. There are 3 ways you can do this, first 
 way is by buying taking the milk, wait in the line, or you can take the milk and choose not to 
 pay the counter and go out, or the wait that people like, kill everyone and pay, or go out after 
 killing everyone. Other missions are such pick up laundry, buy a new Christmas Tree, go to the 
 bank, and other not normal missions. This is not ordinary FPS. The town is big and there is a fair 
 amount of different looking people, but no children. You find cops that want to kill you, but its 
 easy escaping them. The game can be completed without killing or hurting anyone. One big problem 
 are the load zones. Every time you see a tunnel, there should be a sign, which says load zone. 
 If you pass through, the game starts loading and at the end saves your progress. This is frequent 
 and sometimes is too much, but it's a good way to escape from enemies. You will have about 5 groups 
 of enemies, cops not included. There are crazy butchers, save the tree, and some others. 
  
  The game has its moments with the humor in every cutscenes and when you talk to some people. 
 Postal 2 has some great weapons which happen to be with civilians, and sometimes the cops. You 
 might see a guy holding a bazooka, or a machine gun. There are also weapons which you can throw. 
 Like the katana. As I said, this is a game that you can wait in line. There are many when you go 
 to church, or to the bank, and other places. It's not obligated to wait in line but if you start 
 killing people, other people will shoot back. Also some people may not die. The game has little 
 but annoying bugs. If you are trying to be smart and jump over the load zone tunnel, you might 
 end up in nothing. And when you trying to kill many people at ones, the game might sometimes slow 
 down or closes. In some missions you are forced to kill a lot of people, but you have to be careful. 
 You can also wee outside, and on graves, and on people too. 
  
  The city music of Postal is awful. It's basically the same every time you're running in the city. 
 When you're in particular places, the music changes, but it's still horrible. There isn't really 
 much to over joy in missions. If you have Halo, stick to that. There aren't killing people, just 
 getting item to find someone. The game rarely tells you to kill, killing is optionally. Graphics 
 not bad as sound. People look good and environments fairly good. Postal's guns are remarkable after 
 all. When you use guns when you can zoom, like snipers or rifles, try making a head shot. The person 
 you hit in the head, the head won't blow. Ok blood defiantly. There is a lot of blood, but this 
 is very bad for an FPS. 
  
  Postal 2 isn't an awful game by any means. The game is pretty funny, and crazy stuff will keep 
 you entertained. But it's not a good FPS, though. Postal 2 has unique things but most things aren't 
 fleshed out well. It's mostly hard to recommend given to it's ultraviolent and insane action. Still 
 it can be worth a rental, but nothing more. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrPetit
Rating: 3.5
Date: May 16, 2008 5:47 am PT
Review:  Let's be quick about it. Postal 2, a game which can't actually be considered a real game cause 
 dude, the Dude is just some psycho jerk who sets things on fire and shoots guns. He goes about 
 running some errands in his boring little town where every 10 steps he takes he'll have to wait 
 10 seconds for the load bar is complete. 
  Graphics and animations would have been amazing in 1998 but for a game from 2003 you'll probably 
 start figuring that RWS didn't have a lot to spend on quality.
  There isn't much to do in this game so I can't really say much more about it but let me ask you 
 this. Would you enjoy playing the Dude for a whole week walking a lot (like a LOT) , getting fired, 
 setting elephants on fire, pissing on Gary Coleman, getting chased by dogs and the cops, walking 
 around some more, and then finally wondering why you've been wasting so many hours on a game that 
 doesn't even really satisfy like a good game should? I sure wouldn't.
  
  So I enjoyed Postal 2 for about an hour or 2, had a few laughs at more or less funny things. After 
 that I could only see how many shortcomings this game actually has. What is good about it though 
 is that your actions in this game actually tell you something about yourself. What kind of sick 
 things did you make the Dude do? I for one didn't piss on Gary Coleman. But maybe you did.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thandor_DX
Rating: 9
Date: May 5, 2008 1:00 am PT
Review:  Disapointingly i didnt start playing this game till very recently so i cant really get the full 
 experiance seeing the graphics and gameplay are outdated but that doesnt change how much i liked 
 it!
  First impression was "This is freakin hilarious!" just the freedom and things you can do make it 
 a really good game. You have various things to do but you can take your time and do whatever you 
 want in-between them such as pour fuel on the ground and light it on fire while people are by, 
 kick someone that pissed you off and they start shooting and cause a sometimes massive chain-reaction 
 of evreyone pulling out guns and start going "Postal".
  
  If you just want to wizz through the missions its very short and not as fun.
  
  Summing it 
 up: Very fun and hilarious game, youll be laughing all the way through. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: auroracrawler
Rating: 2
Date: Mar 28, 2008 7:47 am PT
Review:  This game worth it buy? let me think, no. why? well, sounds good an GTA-Style game in First-Person 
 perspective. but after about an half-hour of killing spree you'll get bored. this game is simply 
 kill. kil people, kill pets. destroy cars. let the chaos own the city. it's funny, isn't it? no. 
 let me show you first the good side of the game: Graphics and Sound. this is the only masterpiece 
 of the game. but it's only facade. behind the facade the game is an urban war. I can't believe 
 i spent my time with this game. the graphics is good. the physics is excellent, but sometimes it 
 lacks. the rag dolls simply don't work. you hit a body more than 100 times and it even move a hand. 
 it's disastrous. at the first time you play it you think it's funny. the "wow" factor owns you. 
 you can burn people and kil the fire with pee. funny, isn't it? no. it's sick. it's boring. it's 
 disgusting. if you are an intelligent person don't play this sick game. the sound made an good 
 work. it's a wonderful 3D-full sound experience. the screams, the voices, the dog's bark, the explosions, 
 the gun sounds. it's good. but maybe, the cars save the game, no? no. there's no drivable cars 
 on the game. only explodable cars. i think you don't miss this game. don't buy. don't bother, isn't 
 a good one. Ciao. P. S: i'm Brazilian. sorry for my bad English; 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thrashmaster
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 11, 2008 10:06 am PT
Review:  This game is not for the everybody but certainly was for me. I am a fan of dark humor and free 
 roam environment. You are known simply as "dude" and through the game you run simple errands. Starting 
 off by picking up your paycheck, and buying some milk. The fun and dark humor comes in with what 
 happens to him and what you can do along the way. At one point in the game you will find yourself 
 beaten by rednecks in a gimp outfit. You can feed cops donuts to lead them where you want, pee 
 on people to make them throw up, use a cat as a silencer for a shotgun (hilarious IMO) , and many 
 many other things that make it a real guilty pleasure to play.
  The downside to the game is that it does get repetitive and you find yourself in similar situations 
 throughout the game. Constantly needing to escape from people that are trying to kill you. The 
 amount of things that you can do along the way keep the game interesting until the end but unfortunately 
 does not have much replay value other then to simply go back and kill things. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: leo-i
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 8, 2008 2:02 pm PT
Review:  This is a great gore game even one of the best.
  this game is fun and gore, and you can do anything, like killing everyone in the streets with shovels, 
 guns, shotgun, burnin guys with petrol and matches.
  And you have idiot duties to do but very funny, like when you have to go and get a milk bottle 
 at an indian market, or piss on your dads grave.
  so this game is a good fun brilliant game to buy 
  If you have 
 this game you can play for hours and no-one can stop you.
  So defenitly try this game in your life.
  
  Have fun !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snobas
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 3, 2008 2:55 pm PT
Review:  This game gives you extremely twisted fun, which creates extremely good atmosphere. The Good:
 
  
  Extreme violence, various stuff that will make you lough, ragdoll physics, nice voice talents.
 
  
  The Bad:
  
  Long loading times, sometimes AI looks stupid as hell, Sometimes game is just plain difficult.
 
  
  Also, you can find couple of expansion packs for this game like: Share the pain, Appocalypse Weekend, 
 and one russian exp. pack which i dunno what it's called. So try it, it's fun and gory! not for 
 faint of heart and not for weak stomaches.
  
  BTW this game is 2003 so don't expect some extremely good graphics. It uses unreal engine. Also 
 this game contains program called "UnrealED" which allows you to modify textures of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: midianite47
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 21, 2007 9:47 am PT
Review:  This is one of those rare games that finds itself with graphics as low as most will allow, and 
 a nearly absent story line, but the gameplay is so great that the game drives into becoming a cult-phenomenon.
 
  
  Postal 2 is one of those games. The game follows you, the postal dude, in his exploits for pleasing 
 his wife, the b**h, in her day-to-day chores. Each day of the week, typically 3-4 quests will be 
 activated for you to accomplish before the day ends. Not only does this game make fun of its own 
 genre, but society as it is now. With an Osama look-a-like reading up on terrorism in the library, 
 violent video game protestors (whom protest by shooting people that work for a game company that 
 makes violent games) , and even difficult to read vote ballots that won't seem to punch all the 
 way through.
  
  The true innovation in this game is that its possible to fire your gun just a few times and still 
 complete the game; however, as the game was made to do, piss you off more than you're already stressed, 
 by forcing you to stand in a 5-minute line at the bank, you can break lose and do as you please 
 with shooting everyone you feel needs to be shot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gta11
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 16, 2007 9:38 pm PT
Review:  Postal 2 For PC.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  =============================================================
  THE GOOD : Brutal, Disgusting 
 and Foul Gameplay That Sucks You In, Real Life Story Line!, Controls Are Good, Sound Is Hilarious, 
 OSAMA BIN LADEN AND GARY COLEMAN IN THE SAME GAME!
  =============================================================
  THE BAD : Graphics Could Have 
 Been Much Better, The Playing Space Is To Bland, Unique Weapons That Fail To Feel Like Killing 
 Tool's, Loading Times, AI IS EXTREMELY BAD!!!
  =============================================================
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  Recently, 
 a version 1337 patch was released for Postal 2 that added weapons, levels, a sewer, and new cheat 
 codes, and generally made the game much, much better.
  
  You get to meet Gary Coleman. How cool is that?
  
  Actually, once you've played the first couple 
 of days, you probably get the jist of what's going to go down. For an example, when you get your 
 first paycheck, Vince fires you, and then the ''Games are bad, they make me mad'' anti-videogame 
 violence protesters storm the building armed with shotguns. It's pretty funny, but that gag gets 
 overused quick.
  
  I would not recommend anyone under the age of 17 play this game. The game, although thankfully 
 lacking sexual violence, possesses more than its fair share of ethnic slurs ''Don't shoot, I'm 
 a minority!'' However, the slurs are distributed rather equally... But some of the jokes will make 
 you feel really, really, dirty for laughing at, and I wouldn't recommend this game for anyone who 
 gives credence to political correctness at all. Parents, absolutely DO NOT buy this game for your 
 kids, do not let them watch you play it, do not let them read the manual. It's probably one of 
 the most offensive games that's ever been sold in the regular video game market (not including 
 Japan and its Hentai games of course) .
  
  Gameplay : This is not an ordinary FPS. Enemies are effectively just about as strong as you are 
 on hard difficulty, can pick up weapons, mug you, arrest you, and generally do lots of cool things. 
 Unfortunately, the core game itself isn't that difficult because the ai basically has one combat 
 pattern - stand and shoot. Sometimes it'll run away, occasionally it'll run away, but that's basically 
 the one combat pattern you'll have to deal with. Before the patch, the AI could never, ever, ever 
 miss - it could hit you from 500 feet away with a standard pistol. Now with the patch, it can actually 
 miss, which is an improvement. The patch also adds more weapons, a sewer, and generally a lot of 
 cool things. It's also quite possible to beat most, if not all, of the game, without firing a shot, 
 but it's boring and hard to play it that way. The real fun is all the open ended mayhem you can 
 cause - you can walk around town with your fly undone, chop the heads off of burned corpses, and 
 lots of other sick, deviant (light the marching band on fire with gasoline) things.
  
  The game's structured into 7 days. Each day, you'll have to perform a few tasks, like going to 
 the grocery market and getting some milk. The problem with the game on release was that the map 
 was divided into many different areas, and the load times were absolutely appalling - you'd step 
 into a load zone, get a coffee, start playing the game, walk 10 feet, step into a load zone, get 
 another coffee... That's what annoyed the game reviewers - even with a top of the line system, 
 you'd still be stuck with huge loading times. However, the patch fixes the load times, which now 
 are only like 5 seconds as opposed to 20. It makes the game a lot more fun - but I wish they were 
 seamless like those in GTAIII. There's multiple ways of accomplishing some tasks, but others, like 
 returning the library book, force you to proceed linearly. You also can't go to all sections on 
 the entire map until the very last day, which cuts down on exploration a bit. But it's still pretty 
 fun - there are no dummy houses, so you can enter and exit and kill and maim just about anywhere. 
 I also like how dead bodies on screen are kept even after you save - it's a nice touch.
  
  I wish the AI were better, and I wish there were secondary fire on weapons. Before the patch there 
 were lots of issues with the pedestrians being almost invincible, but that was fixed with the patch, 
 which is another mark up for it.
  
  
  Dead on. I love, love, love the kick key. No matter what weapon you're equipped with, you can always 
 hit Q to kick people with. Not only that, you can also kick open doors, kick open windows, kick 
 dogs, kick decapitated heads around... I wish every FPS had a kick key.
  
  Oh, and the menus are very lucidly laid out, all zones where there's loading are marked so you 
 don't stumble over them, weapon and item switching is quick and easy, the game automatically bails 
 you out if you get stuck in a position, and did I mention that the kick key is amazing? I also 
 like being able to pee on things - makes for some great screenshots. You can also make trails with 
 gasoline easily - one time I turned on fly mode, made a pentagram, and lit it on fire in-game, 
 and watched it from above. And the marching band walked into it and set on fire and soon pretty 
 much the entire town was in an uproar. It was so cool. Seriously, this game lets people with deviant 
 imaginations run wild.
  
  
  Graphics : Based on the Unreal Warfare engine, Postal 2 does a hell of a job rendering the environments. 
 It has a consistant framerate, detailed environments, and amazing textures - heck, you can even 
 read menus in restaurants and everything. Postal 2 also has a lot of crude, visual humor - you'll 
 crack up laughing every couple of minutes just on sight gags.
  
  
  Sound : There's no real music - it's all ambient noise and muzak parodies in some places. Now, 
 the mall sounds amazingly like a mall, and the voice-acting is great, but this game would have 
 been much more awesome with a real soundtrack.
  
  
  Postal 2 is not just another FPS. It's definitely worth checking out now that the 1337 patch is 
 out, and it's really a whole lot of sick, deviant fun, and it's one of my favorite FPS games. The 
 humor may be crude, and the game may be a pain at times, but if you have an imagination, you'll 
 have fun here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Biverix
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 23, 2007 12:23 pm PT
Review:  If you dont like sickeningly violent dont buy postal and exit this review. Otherwise keep on its 
 like one of the coolest games ever! Wanted to tease someone until he colapses on the floor and vommits, 
 than you urinate on him, cut of his head with a rusty shovel set it on fire and kick it like soccer 
 ball? Well in postal you can. Amazingly violent and treamendeously FUN! Game is about a postal dude 
 who lives in a very violent enviorment of Paradise Arizona where he embarks on a series of daily 
 chores that turn into hillarious adventures with some weird characters. Get arrested or give a cop 
 a doughnot you just urinated on-its on you to be as peacefull as you want but that is not my style! Only 
 thing it lacks is a multiplayer mode: It would be a lot more fun grilling the live people. Anymore 
 boring text would be a waste of Internet. Go and play for yourself. And no im not from Runningwithscissors 
 Inc. I just love to be Postal... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Algr3n
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 6, 2007 7:46 pm PT
Review:  What does it matter if it's sick? It's fun! What's wrong with you guys! This is a good game. How 
 can you say it isn't fun to get to the milk store armed with a shotgun when a bunch of arabian 
 dudes start yelling: Lalalalalalalalalalala!!!!!!! And come after you shooting you with lotsa big, 
 bad M-16's. It's also fun to smack an officer in his butt and hear him saying Who shot me???? while 
 you hide your shovel. Or pissing in a police officer who starts throwing up, and while that's happening, 
 you cut her head off.
  
  There's a warning, you know. THIS GAME IS FOR ENTERTAINING PURPOSE ONLY! Now if you don't understand 
 that and want to sue Running With Scissors for producing this because you let your 8 year-old child 
 watch this game and have nightmares, that's your problem. And you will lose in court.
  
  But Algren, why the 7.5 then? You're saying this game is so great! 
  
  It is, when you want 
 a good laugh waiting for the time to play some football with your friends on sunday afternoon. 
 But graphics, physics, A. I., dialogue variety and quantity of bugs and loading bars on this game 
 sure make it annoying. But the gameplay itself is worth 9.0. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkPhoenix142
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 16, 2007 8:43 pm PT
Review:  This is probably the main game I go to for a good laugh and to relieve my stress, I enjoy the level-like 
 open-ended world. you have to complete the goals, but you can go do whatever you want in the mean 
 time. The action of the game never lets up. Kill someone and the cops show up, shoot the cops and 
 more show up. Run into a brewery and a bunch of crazy red-necks show up with shotguns and the fun 
 ensues. With the inclusion of multiplayer in the Share the Pain version, the experience gets even 
 better.
  
  Want a good way to laugh your ass off? Make a multiplayer game and set it to no weapons and have 
 a Piss and Kick match. Hilarious fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SouthParkFan92
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 14, 2007 6:41 am PT
Review:  Postal 2 is the sequel to the controversial 1996 video game Postal which was about a postman going 
 to a killing spree. Postal 2 has more of a story to it. Postal 2 is a big improvement over the first. The 
 graphics are good for its time, there are more innovative ways to kill people. There are less people 
 shooting at you and there is more of a story in this one. In this one everyday you have an objective 
 to do from pick up milk to get Gary Coleman's autograph. Postal 2 is more controversial than the 
 first because this one has more innovative ways to kill people. Postal 2 is a better game than the 
 first one and I suggest getting the game unless you have a weak stomach. The funny thing is that 
 while all the violence is happening the Postal dude (your character) shouts out funny one liners! Anyway 
 alright game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: YellowJello
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 20, 2007 1:47 am PT
Review:  This game is great for people who know how to relieve stress, it's even better if you know how 
 to make skins for it. I put a bunch of people from my school's faces on the guys and installed 
 it all around my school. That was a good day.
  
  Anyway, I highly suggest that you buy this game if you know a lot of annoying people. Just skin 
 or imagine their faces on the people in this game and shoot away. Just don't take it into real 
 life, that would be bad. :)
  
  The people's reactions in the game are priceless. If you bump into someone, they call you an idiot. 
 If you dress up as a cop and start shooting people, the cops say, Hey, cut it out, it's bad for 
 business. It's a great game for anyone to screw around in.
  
  Buy it. Now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChicaQueenWarGa
Rating: 6.6
Date: Aug 7, 2007 3:20 pm PT
Review:  I thought this game was hilarious to play. When I first started to play, I tried to be good, and 
 waited in line. The problem was that it was really buggy. I would wait in line in the back, and 
 when it's my turn the person at the counter said I cutted...
  
  Then, I realized that the only way to beat it is to play dirty. Even though when you shoot someone, 
 there are ten people in the back with shotguns...
  
  Usually, there's always places to get stuck in. I remember falling into a sewer with mad eating 
 dogs, but I had no guns. The ladder didn't work when I tried to climb it.
  
  The gameplay was okay. There are a lot of guns to chose from, and a lot of places to explore, but 
 it was pretty repetitive... Go in a line, wait or kill. Then for some reason the cops come, and 
 you need to kill them all.
  
  The graphics were a bit disappointing. The faces were choppy. The buildings were just squared blocks.
 
  The sound is almost the same thing. I usually hear the same voice, and the same lines.
  
  I would recommend this game if it was on sale for a few dollars. I would just say this is a fair 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cow_moo_22
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 19, 2007 7:38 pm PT
Review:  who ever wrote the main review for this, well ... is a prick he only reviewed the negative parts 
 of the game. and tryd to make it seem like a gta copy cat when it is nothing like gta. postal 2 
 is commonly criticized for being sick and demented while my thinking is its only as sick as you 
 are, and seriously what other games let you go into a bank and pee on people to get them out of 
 your way in line, if you have good pee pee aim you can make them vomit. and the multiplayer is 
 amazing, let me describe a fire fight, everyone meets in a room about 10 players everyone fighting 
 and in the midst of this a man runs into the room in a gimp suit and just starts peeing on people, 
 this game is a must own for anyone with a sense of humor or anyone who just likes exploring open 
 environments 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ognen
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 26, 2007 8:35 am PT
Review:  Postal 2 is a game for people who love violence in games. It's story is about a man called The 
 Dude in the game. He lives with his woman and his dog in the park of Paradise city, in the United 
 States. His woman gives him tasks to do every day of the week, starting from Monday, ending to 
 Friday. When moving around the game, you interact with the people of Paradise City, which has totally 
 different job than you. They can talk to each other, get into a fight, and even got sick in front 
 of you... The Postal dude can be interactive with his money, can get into a fight, can piss on 
 to other people, and even kill them violent like with a gas and fire. When you move around the 
 world, there isn't some special music, but when you move along some places like clubs, churches 
 and casinos you see some characteristic music for these places. In Postal 2 there is bunch of religion 
 parody, like the Christians and the muslim's I personally think that it's not a problem for this 
 game for people to like it. As long as it's just a game, and it don't hurts no one, there's no 
 point for someone to hate it. The graphic is not as good as the newest games, with the new, modern 
 engines... But the simple way of playing makes it great 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sytzepunk
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 26, 2007 5:41 pm PT
Review:  I've had fun with the demo, so what do I do? Buy the game! Gameplay:
  Addicting, you'll be able to piss on people, kick people and use you're almighty shovel to wack 
 the hell out of people, its fun because it never gets old smashing bodies with shovels, the game 
 has the basic Mouse and WASD controls.
  
  Graphics:
  Lame textures, characters look suprisingly good, even if their dead, the game gives us the mood 
 of a redneck town, the stores and other places you'll encounter won't let you forget them soon 
 enough, I can't get the image of the Jihad storeclerk out of my mind.
  
  Also, the ragdoll engine is swell, so you can kick and smash, and piss on dead body's as long as 
 you want, or set them on fire, that'll work to.
  
  Story:
  You're the POSTAL Dude, or just The Dude. You'll go thru a live of a normal man who works at the 
 Postal office, and you're daily routine will be getting milk or a paycheck, mostly ending up in 
 a huge bloody massacre, and piss.
  
  AI:
  Not that great, police people will get behind you're back after a while, trying to cuff you, shoot 
 you or.. they'll do both or die because they got in touch with a shovel.
  
  Normal people will run away if you shoot them or point a gun at you, or they'll vomit or literally 
 start giving you a blowjob if you come up close to them, that just shows how sick this game is, 
 but sick can be fun to, right?
  
  Is it a filthy game:
  Its filthy, its huge range of random stuff you can do, the weapons and ways to kill people are 
 endless, the missions are hilarious and are fun atleast, if you are into games like GTA or Manhunt, 
 download the demo and see for yourself.
  
  Also: The game has a multiplayer component, but it isn't good because nobody plays it, mostly because 
 the gore isn't included into it, which sucks.
  
  Also also: The replay value is HUGE, you can't get enough of killing people, smashing people thru 
 windows is just guilty pleasure! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killerXD
Rating: 2.8
Date: May 21, 2007 7:40 pm PT
Review:  The point of this game is to kill people, and you can kill them however you want. The storyline 
 is to just go around doing day to day stuff like go pickup your paycheck. The game pisses you off 
 so you want to kill people and even if you dont want to kill them your gonna end up killing them 
 or youll have to wait like 10minutes in line for something. Its the most pointless game for just 
 killing people, if I want to kill people in games and have fun ill play something like manhunt 
 or Grand theft auto. The only cool thing about this whole game was pissing on people but that was 
 only fun for 3minutes. I give this game a 3 for the sounds, graphics and they ways you can kill 
 people. If want some fun for 3hrs, Download it. I wouldnt buy this game for a dollar, id rather 
 have a pop. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JOE714
Rating: 6.9
Date: Mar 7, 2007 9:22 am PT
Review:  I must admit that I was disappointed with Postal 2 after the first four or five hours of playing 
 it. Up until that point, I had a grand old time gleefully massacring the many pedestrians around 
 Paradise: shocking and spooking and swatting and soaking them in gallons of urine; playing fetch 
 with my mutt using some uppity bimbos detached noggin; sneaking into homes to steal cans of gasoline 
 from the bathtub (?) ; breaking and jostling hapless citizens windows and furniture just to marvel 
 at the Havok physics in effect; kicking the snot out of armed vigilantes and protestors and then 
 leading them into a passel of cops for a showdown. All of those refreshingly discourteous diversions 
 were a hoot until the fatigue of repetition kicked in. Entering a new section of the marvelously 
 detailed town (which required an astonishingly long load time prior to the Share the Pain patch) 
 yielded nothing new, just more houses through which to rummage and more capital to devalue. Of 
 course, acquiring new weapons like the WMD Launcher or the rotting cows head refreshed my interest 
 in the game; it was somewhat sporting to watch the epidemic spawned by the former toy spread from 
 person to person until its pestilential funk reduced an entire block of Postal Dudes smarmy neighbors 
 to a pitiful, writhing mass of upchucks and moans. Still, casual meanness can provide only so much 
 catharsis.
  
  Once I was done with wandering about the (again, very nicely rendered) town, breaking and entering 
 at every domicile and peeing gleefully on anyone I found therein, I really wanted something comparatively 
 useful to do. I appreciated the way in which each days errands were freeform with regard to the 
 order in which I completed them, and I was initially compelled by the idea that the game allows 
 for a meek demeanor. Waiting patiently in line for a brusque bank teller or fleeing at the sight 
 of the different factions (protesters, rednecks, and so on) that develop into enemies over the 
 course of the game actually added some value to those moments when I finally did raise my fists 
 in anger like the titular letter carriers of old  after all, there is nothing quite as satisfying, 
 in the virtual world of first-person shooters, as delivering on a well-earned killing. The fact 
 that different sections of the town gradually opened only as the week wore on  as well as a smattering 
 of new sensations, like a doomed parade or an increase in the number of combustible cars, that 
 were added to already-established areas  helped to stave of the worst of the been-there-done-that 
 ennui.
  
  I cannot stress enough how wonderfully intricate Postal 2s scenery and fluid/flame effects are, 
 and the character designs were top-notch back in 02. Even though they shuffled around doing absolutely 
 nothing most of the time, the citizens of Paradise looked great, what with their well-articulated 
 facial animation and a fairly broad spectrum of clothing/countenance combinations. In fact, one 
 of the redheads in the crowd looked and sounded like an almost picture-perfect rendition of a particularly 
 vicious ex-girlfriend of mineso you can bet the bank that that model received its fair share of 
 bruising, dog bites, immolation, and cholera. Dont worry; Im as harmless as a (really big) kitten 
 in real life, and Postal 2 is less about dangerously antisocial behavior than it is about naughty 
 hijinks on a cartoonish playground awash in bodily fluids and all manner of infantile intolerance. 
 To that end, the game isnt all that funny unless the player is one of those types for whom pulling 
 someones finger never gets old. I only recall laughing out loud a few times  at some of the questions 
 asked of Special Guest Star Gary Coleman during his meet-and-greet in the mall, at the audacity 
 of the jiggly Krotchy mascot, and I cackled like a loon the first time my dog fetched a severed 
 head and dropped it at my feet. Overall, however, poop jokes and name-calling run a distant second 
 to the well-developed character-driven humor that made the No One Lives Forever series such a remarkable 
 experience.
  
  Postal 2 is a mixed bag of positives and negatives. The game looks great, runs fairly well on a 
 powerful machine (after the patch, natch) , and contains a wickedly deranged arsenal and cast of 
 characters. Conversely, P2 just isnt very endearing, for the lack of a better word; its structure 
 is a bit too freeform, so that the meandering gameplay ends up feeling like Morrowind with only 
 two or three quests available on the entire island. I recommend Postal 2 for anyone who loves desert 
 scenery and gratuitous grossness. Players who require a tight storyline and prefer a less wanton 
 outlet for deadly justice will likely grow bored long before The Dude pees pus. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AnimeFreak9865
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 25, 2007 11:01 am PT
Review:  Postal 2 one of the greatest FPS's to ever hit the PC. The games graphics were surprisingly good 
 for the time they were released and the physics were impressive. This game is a lot like Grand 
 Theft Auto in the sense that you can go about randomly massacring helpless bystanders or just wreak 
 havoc as much as you can. You can go through the game completing errands without killing people 
 and destroying everything or you can be the psychotic killer that destroys everything that moves.
 
  
  Be warned though, if you don't enjoy games with extreme gore, violence, explicit language, racism 
 (and racial stereotypes) , animal cruelty, mature themes etc, then this game definitely is not for 
 you. If you can ignore those things then it is a highly addictive game. Postal 2 received a lot 
 of criticism as a result of its explicit content and due to the fact that you can murder people 
 in the worst ways. An example of this is the way that you can urinate on people and cause others 
 to vomit or even get an anthrax filled cow head and cause people to spew up blood.
  
  Although there is no multiplayer in the original game, there is an expansion (Share the Pain) that 
 adds multiplayer features and Apocalypse Weekend which adds new weapons and Missins.
  
  There are a lot of things that you can do in this game to keep yourself entertained, things like 
 going on missions, exploring or even just trying to set a new record on how many people can be 
 killed by a gun being silenced with the rectum of a cat. Postal 2 is quite a large game and offers 
 endless re-playability and things to do. Overall it is a very good game and I recommend it to anyone 
 who enjoys a highly addictive FPS. But be warned: this game is not for the faint-hearted... at 
 all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fixer293
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 21, 2007 4:46 pm PT
Review:  I don't know who rates these games, but a free roam FPS with the chance to destroy Bin Laden is 
 pure genious. I seriously enjoyed the game and its multiplayer. I also got the AW7 mod which makes 
 this game even moven hilarious. I just love the fact that you can do whatever you want. Postal 
 2 deserved a better score. The gameplay is awsome, the sound could use some work, but who cares, 
 it's a Free roam FPS that gives you the ability to do what you want. I like hunting Taliban with 
 the boomerang machete and the shotgun. I Can't wait for the 3rd one for 360. I would like to say 
 Running With Scissors is one of the best game developers around. The Physics in this game are sick, 
 and the amount of weapons are mind blowing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_mighty_boos
Rating: 4.4
Date: Mar 4, 2007 12:17 pm PT
Review:  I played the demo for this game a while back and i saw it in the shop a couple days after being 
 sold cheap, so i decided i would pick it up. After playing for an hour or two, i realised this 
 game was not really mcuh more than a sandbox violence simulator. Your first missions in this game 
 include picking up milk and getting your pay check. This sums up quite nicely the effort that has 
 been put into the objectives. Although these missions occasionally take an unexpected turn, the 
 twist is nearly always the same: you go here, riot breaks out, you kill some people, mission over. 
 This all gets very tiresome after the first few attempts, and so you decide to jsut explore the 
 world you've been put in instead. This would be fine, but Postal 2 is no GTA in terms of fun or 
 being filled with things to do. Theres pretty much nothing to do apart from kill people and find 
 new weapons. The old school graphics dont help at all, and the sound effects are incredibly samey. 
 However, bad points aside, I still found myself playing Postal 2. Maybe its because its an extremely 
 effective stress reliever (you can kill everyone from terrorists to vegetarians. yay!) and you 
 love the fact that you can throw a rotting cows head, filled with (probably) anthrax. I only recommend 
 buying this game if its being sold extremely cheap, because if you pay full price, you will msot 
 definetely regret it.
  
  The Good - Fun for a while - Good stress reliever
  
  The Bad - Not funny - Outdated graphics - Stupid missions - Could be offensive 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kap_thirteen
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 27, 2006 6:51 pm PT
Review:  Okay Im going to start this of with the topic of racism. This game is slightly racist. I am of 
 course referring to the part when you go into a middle eastern shop. However, Im going to ignore 
 that for this review. Or perhaps just mention that I did not like that in this game. So, Postal 
 2. Those of you how may have been unlucky enough to play the patectic Postal One may remember its 
 bollocks graphics. I honestly dont know why anyone made a fus about that pile of **** It was worse 
 that a mobile phone game. So unbelievably this company called running with scissors makes Postal 
 2. I bought this game the first day it came out. I loved the rag doll physics in it. What I really 
 loved was the fact you could go into ANY building. You could kill ANYONE. And the beauty of it 
 was you didnt have to kill anyone at all. You could in fact go about your daily life and not kill 
 anyone. Well sort of. Thats what is enjoyed about this game. The graphics were pretty good for 
 the time. I liked how the NPCs eyes would move. I liked the modelling especially on the heads 
 of the NPCs. Another thing which was good in this game was the voice acting. The one liners were 
 great. The actor who provided the voice did a very good job.
  What would have made this game better would have been, character development such as kill sats 
 and so on. Also it would be great if you could drive cars. If you could dismember a body and if 
 it had good impact detection. It would also be great if bullets impact the environment. If your 
 going for realism then I think the living world aspect should be looked at.
  Other than that I think if there was a Postal 3 it would be great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cehok3
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 9, 2006 12:26 pm PT
Review:  WOW, i cant belive it.... Punch me if i am dreaming. Becuse this game is so cool i cant belive it! 
 =)
  
  In this game you can do anithing but not driving veichles!
  But still ITS GREAT.
  
  I first start playing with POSTAL 2, and a few years without playing postal 2
  i see mods 
 4 this game like SHARE THE PAIN and the other mod. ( I cant remenber the name :I)
  
  GAMEPLAY: its cool and the camera is great (first person view)
  WEAPONS: lots of weapons, not just 
 weapons you got other items like gas and more stuff , and this YOU CAN TAKE A CAT AND PUT ON A 
 WEAPON and shut in the cats but and thro the mouth ;)
  
  GAME: What can i say ITS WOURTH OF PLAYING
  
  THIS GAME CHANGE MY LIFE I AM BEHAVE LIKE HUMAN 
 IN POSTAL 2
  no just kiding =) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Luka_38
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 27, 2006 4:25 am PT
Review:  I like this fps because it is one of only shooters that have freedom to go around the city, graphics 
 aren't all that great but they are better than some other shooters that came out that year. I realy 
 like the sicknes of this game, it isn't matter that game has no sence or any story it still rocks. 
 Too bad that there isn't any multiplayer in normal postal. There are a lot of weird wepons that 
 you can have fun with it. Postal dudes lines cracks me up, there is always something funny, even 
 though its sick, i still laugh. As i said before there isn't a game like this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rl_41
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 4, 2006 12:58 pm PT
Review:  This game is not going to be "oh it's so-so." No. You either love it or you hate it. It's that 
 simple. Really, I don't consider it an immersive exciting FPS. I consider it great stress relief, 
 or just plain fun. That is unless you have something against video game violence. If you do, then 
 you could probably rant bad things against this game for hours (a fact the publisher openly addresses 
 quite a bit) . 
  
  The graphics are not that bad. It's obvious they didn't put much effort into it though, just made 
 a few character models and used the Unreal engine to power them. Gameplay is just like any other 
 FPS. You run, jump, strafe, aim around, shoot, switch weapons, and... unzip your pants. Yes, you 
 can go around peeing in this game. One thing that this game got right is people's reactions to 
 things, the NPC's really react well. Go around with an assault rifle, they'll notice. Same if you 
 go around with your pants down. The sound is ok... I don't have anything against it.
  
  Overall, this game is not really what you would expect from big developers of highly acclaimed 
 games. In fact, it's practically the opposite. Just a random game full of horribly violent fun. 
 It has a funny story line (depending on your sense of humor) but really, this game doesn't need 
 a story line. Really, all you're gonna end up doing is going around shooting stuff. Which they 
 have made a lot of fun. You can go around for hours just causing the riots you wish you could do 
 in real life.
  
  So overall, don't count on the rating of this game. 8.5, 4.5 or 1.0, it all depends on your taste. 
 If you like going around doing random acts of violence, by all means purchase this game. If you 
 want something with more strategy or something, this not for you. Postal 2 is everything you sometimes 
 wish you could do in real life put into a box. So if you're having a stressful day, just pull out 
 this game and let yourself go 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spenneth
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 29, 2006 2:39 pm PT
Review:  I played this game first time at a frind at a lan-party, and since then I have been in love with 
 it.. hehe.. I love the language they use, they don't care about the stupid american censur.. :D 
 wich i hate so bad!!
  the game is so cool because you can do pretty much what you want to.. :)
  So I deffendly think 
 you should try it!!
  This game is one of the most intertaining action game you can find to this date and it will still 
 be in many years to come! of that I'm sure! :D
  The different groups or people in the game is so funny, and the way the kill each other on is so 
 awesome, fx take the priest/pastors (what ever) against the talibans or Iraks or what ever the 
 are, the look like osama bin laden so I guess they are supposed to be talibans.. And when the military 
 comes and shoot rocketlaunchers after you and allmost do everything to stop you.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigEfenRobot
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 1, 2006 2:43 pm PT
Review:  In this kind of game the story dosent matter thats like making a serious sam game and saying
 omg this story sucks" its not about that. It is about just shooting stuff up and liting things 
 on fire, urinating on people, and robbing stores. This is one of those games thats just Fun to 
 play just to sit down and play for a couple of hours.
  All of my freinds have it and we all love it because its just plain fun. Sure gamespot says it 
 has the first waiting in line simulator but we can make that fun... Take a can of gasoline and poor 
 a circle around the line and LITE IT ON FIRE and watch them burn and then go up to the front and 
 cash your paycheck or buy your milk.... fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bebebebebebe123
Rating: 3.9
Date: May 3, 2006 10:30 am PT
Review:  First of all, the game doesn't live up with it predecesstor.
  Second, the graphic is poor and dated; it looks like the graphic engine they used was in 2000 or 
 something.
  Third, the idea of the game is pretty pointless. Almost every fps give you some freedom to explore 
 and to choose.
  Fourth, the physics is badly represented.
  Fifth, the gore is not even gore, it's like a joke, but it's not even funny.
  Sixth, if they 
 want to make it realistic, they should really do it. For example, human can't take that amount 
 of lead before they hit the ground!!!
  
  Anyway, try the demo and feel what I meant by that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dinghy_Dog
Rating: 7.7
Date: May 3, 2006 7:34 am PT
Review:  :Good Idea:
  You control how the game plays. You can actually play the game without being a psycho or you can 
 just start out as a lunatic. It's up to you.
  Throwing a hand grenade at Gary Coleman is always good.
  Smoking cat nip makes everything like 
 the Matrix. That is just great.
  
  :Bad Idea:
  No multiplayer unless you purchase it with Share The Pain. Even that doesn't have a co-op mode 
 or anything.
  The language can become really annoying at times and there's no filter for it.
  This is pretty 
 minor but there's a few spelling errors. Lol, like "By my dang book!".
  
  :Overall:
  A rock solid game with tons of great humor. If you can find this game in your state or country, 
 go run and get it before your government bans it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tom567
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 30, 2006 12:51 pm PT
Review:  let me get one thing straight postal 2 is one of those games where you think to yourself this game 
 will just focus on blood and guts. that is the impression you get at first but after a while of 
 playing you realise that it wasnt just the blood and guts you were enjoying it was the crude storyline.......... YEAH 
 RIGHT!!
  
  postal 2 revolves around a dude called the postal dude and a week in his life. you have a set amount 
 of tasks for each day and the idea is basically complete those tasks and get home. those tasks 
 include urinating on your fathers grave (o... k) having a urine test (again o... k) killing rednecks 
 to get out of a gimp suit kicking out of jail smoking pot to regain health threating to kill and 
 rape people unless they sign your petition for politics to play violent games before banning them 
 and meeting gary coleman
  
  overall though i enjoyed this game all the way untill the sick bitter blood splattered ending but 
 being able to run down the street with a spade in your hands and them knocking some random persons 
 head off then bringing out a shotgun to blow the **** out of them while they still standthen fallover
 
  
  but in all i think gta fans will enjoy this game most
  if you buy this game make sure you play it to its full extent then you will have fun
  
  .... tom567..... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Half-Vampire
Rating: 5.3
Date: Apr 30, 2006 2:52 am PT
Review:  For me this game is just too stupid. The missions from level to level are stupid. All thing almost 
 stupid. My roomate really dont like this game because this game concerntrating only for violence 
 and humiliation. 
  
  The graphics are awesome. Its really beautiful. I love running through all the women and they will 
 mad at me so i can see their eyes. :D Textures are beautiful. 
  
  Sounds, its OK. All weapon sounds are stupid, except for rocket launcher. Other than weapon sounds, 
 its all good.
  
  Overall this game is just stupid and stupid again. But it help you relieve your stress and self 
 esteem. Buy this game if only you got so many money to spend. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jessz0rz
Rating: 4.7
Date: Apr 21, 2006 6:16 am PT
Review:  Well, Postal 2 hasn't a plot or somthing like that. You begin as "The postal Dude" (yes, you're 
 name is dude -_-) . When waking up in a caravan next to you're wife, she begins to bug you with 
 all kinds of frustrating jobs, like getting milk, earning your paycheck, buying a gift for your 
 uncle.
  You get a new list of things to do every day. The game is placed from moday till friday, and saturday 
 and sunday is only in the expansion: Apocalypse Weekend.
  
  When wandering in the city, you see all kinds of different people. Gay's, mental not 100 % people, 
 gimps, women with strings if you look under the skirt, etc. You begin with only a shovel, and you 
 can do great things with it if you know what I mean.
  
  Well, if you read the gamespot review, it's the first game simulating waiting in line. BUt you 
 don't have to, ofcourse. You can also use your shovel to clear the way.
  
  When following the "storyline" you will get different kinds of weapons, like bazooka, machine gun, 
 pistol, shotgun, and the standard stuff. All easy to handle, because the crosshair and aim is always 
 the same.
  
  Well, there isn't much to tell more, that's why it is a litle boring when you finished it. There's 
 also a multiplayer. That's fun for 10 hours, and then it's boring too.
  
  Postal 2 is just a game for an evening of fun with you're friends, but don't exepct too much of 
 it. Just plain fun, gameplay sucks a little, and the sound and graphics aren't special. But if 
 I could give a mark for fun, it would get a 9.
  
  Sorry for my bad english, and remember it's my first review so I could use some comments. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ReijMan
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 11, 2006 2:09 am PT
Review:  I played the game with a friend, we both started and enjoyed it very much. We had many good laughs, 
 but in the end there is not really much to do. Loading was no problem with pc's of these days.
 
  They should try to make their next game with a little more depth and even more violence. There 
 are enough good jokes in the game to show you its more a joke then real-life stuf you have to deal 
 with. The story is fun, but not really good worked out.
  if you see this game for $14-20 just buy it. (if you like a bit of shocking)
  cruel game ^_^ 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RE4DUDE
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 30, 2006 12:18 pm PT
Review:  I love this game, I'm one of those people who like violence and gore in a game. It's fun and if 
 you get bored of it, you wanna play it again the next day. Gamespot probably rates it by the standards 
 of video games like First Person Shooters and Role playing games, and even because there isn't 
 much of a story to this. The story you go running around doing chores, killing people if you want 
 to while doing so. The graphics are great, the rag doll physics rock, the reality is sweet, and 
 I love the napalm launcher. I rate it a 10 out of 10 and I recommend getting Share the Pain and/or 
 Apocalypse Weekend. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nakichiel
Rating: 6.4
Date: Mar 26, 2006 5:51 am PT
Review:  The first Postal (1997) made the ground shake in videogame land. Je played a crazy American - The 
 Postal Dude - that created chaos and death with molotov cocktails, machine guns and the likes. 
 You killed without mercy, even children, dogs, and complete orchestras had to take a bullet. If 
 you shot an innocent bystander, it crawled away with lots of pain while it was saying it couldn't 
 feel it's legs. 
  
  In Postal 2 you are again The Postal Dude that has to do a bunch of assignments in a week. You 
 can decide which assignment you want to do first and in the sparetime you can do whatever you want 
 to create chaos in the little village you live in. You can wait in the line at the baker, or you 
 can shoot everybody and steal the money. The residents of the town are trigger happy aswell, lots 
 of NPC's carry guns. The possibilities are bizar but they lose their charm very fast. You can shoot 
 everything in a gay bar, piss on people, shotgun cats and kill innocent people et cetera. There 
 is no real goal in the game. Unfortunately the village is built in loose components and this creates 
 long loading times. The shootouts are very arcade and it's shoot or be shot. It's childish, and 
 disturbing, but a little funny aswell. 
  
  Postal 2 wants to be brutal, violent and shocking and that mission is succesful. And you have a 
 lot of freedom. On other points this game falls short, and in the end it's nothing more than a 
 funny in-between game that has some interesting ideas. Too bad it's all so mediocre. And this game 
 doesn't have multiplayer, which would make this game a whole lot better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: R4213L
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 11, 2006 8:48 am PT
Review:  Really this game is Perfect! U can do what u want in this game :P (as far as it's coded) Violence? 
 where? Ahh U killed someone and they shoot at you? well You were the violent one!! You went to 
 buy milk and they shoot when U leave? Did U pay for it? No ? So you are a thief? think bout it 
 b4 posting stuff like stupid game!!
  
  It's really great game if u play it JUST for fun :D
  
  After reading few reviews that says 
 this game is too violent or too stupid play it but don't think about those reviews! Just play with 
 your heart content :P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Higamason
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 9, 2006 9:23 pm PT
Review:  LOL POSTL 2 IS TEH **** But seriously now, Postal 2 is a game that I didn't expect to be that good. 
 (Damn you X-Play!) When I first played it, my expectations were very low. But after playing it... 
 I am amazed. This is one fun, addictive, ect, ect. game! For one, I never thought I'd have fun 
 just pulling out a shovel and smacking a random person would be! ... Or even just start taking a 
 piss on a random person... The controls in Postal 2 are pretty solid. Except for some minor flaws 
 --which I'm too lazy to mention. The graphics are pretty bad, but I never really cared at all during 
 my play time. (I was too busy having fun!) The sounds is so-so. For the value for this game is 
 pretty hard to say, though I had a fun time playing it, I think a lot of people will not enjoy 
 playing this mindless carnage. So... all in all, Postal 2 is a great FPS -- I think it's a FPS. Buy 
 it, you'll get a kick out of it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stabby
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 16, 2006 6:23 am PT
Review:  I mostly agree with what Gamespot has given but I have to... my duty to disagree strongly here. 
 The review has looked at the game in all the wrong way, this is a game ONLY for those who don't 
 give a s*** about plot! Postal 2 is just a first person mini free roam role play but gives you 
 a heavy range of violent disgusting weapons you have even seen from Electric Tazers to rotten diseased 
 cow heads and rustly shovels to your own urine firing penis WOOT! Forget the artistic value, the 
 gripping plot, the tense in depth character issues OOOO! This is just for those who want to blow 
 s*** up, f*** over some cops and smash in d*** head's brains all over the road! And remember, this 
 game is as only as violent as you are and if you put all your effort into it... it comes out on 
 top as the most sinister off beat violent black comedy game ever! Come on and play... IT HAS MULTIPLAYER 
 NOW! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thetruesonic
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 12, 2006 6:17 am PT
Review:  this game is a god among games, and postal3 coming for xbox360 i can't wait, the only reason gamespot 
 rated it poorly is because es-rb is forcing them, along with that complete c**t jack thompson, no 
 offence gamespot workers, but your guy who played this game to rate it must've been a nagging over 
 protective mum (england) , who won't give her son a lesson in reality.
  
  this game is'nt completely violent, vince desi cleared it up himself, its about choices, the game 
 is violent as you are, you could'nt see that, its printed right on the box you idiots, you can complain 
 all you want on your reviews, but i know the moment you turn off your review to the masses, you turn 
 back to your games computer and slap postal2 home to the disk drive, to play another course of violent 
 fun.
  
  this game is great, its different, its actually fun which can be difficult to find in games these 
 days, if your reading this review, this real review, instead of those **** ass reviews, buy this game, its 
 the real thing its fun, its cheap.
  
  with a huge range of weapons postal dude is checking the liscence, and remember its just a game! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thaGreatmumbles
Rating: 7.2
Date: Feb 11, 2006 11:30 am PT
Review:  through out the game you want to destroy everthing, shoot everthing, and say screw it to the story, 
 if you could not die it would be great for me cause i just like experimenting with the people, 
 and the guns, and the surroundings i have nothing else to say but try the demo and if you like 
 it then get it but if you had any other feelings towards the game then do not get it because it 
 will happen through out the game. i ca not use one hundred words, because i have already explained 
 what i feel and how the game is, because there is not a lot of detail to the game. its just straight 
 to the point. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Addzi
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 21, 2006 1:25 pm PT
Review:  Okay, firstly, Postal 2 is more of a stress reliever than a game. Don't expect an intricate story 
 or through provoking characters, because in this game, they simply don't exist.
  
  Postal 2 is a game that doesn't take itself seriously. The bloody carnage that you cause throughout 
 the streets of paradise is all very tongue in cheek and in no way comes across as disturbing, unless 
 of course you still make a point of not watching films like Battle Royale or Kill Bill as a matter 
 of principle.
  
  All that matters is, you're a guy with a gun. You kill people (if you want to) and basically complete 
 simple day to day tasks like returning library books and picking up pay checks.
  
  However, the game gives you certain obstacles, usually in the form of angry mobs of pissed off 
 parents after you for corrupting their kids using video games. The tongue in cheek bit is that 
 all these parents and other crazies are also carrying guns.
  
  Your character 'Postal Dude' comes out with some quite funny one liners at times and has a movie 
 trailer kind of cheesy voice (again, the game not taking itself seriously) .
  
  The graphics aren't top notch, but it simply doesn't matter. You get the idea of what's going on 
 and the gameplay wins over everything else. 
  
  If you shoot people in a packed city street, the others run screaming. If you chase someone, they 
 run frantically, always looking over their shoulder as you gain closer and closer. Then... WHAM! 
 You've decapitated them with a shovel. The other civilians then proceed to throw up as you kick 
 the innocent guy's head around the street. A typical example of gameplay ten minutes into Postal 
 2.
  
  My real problem with this game is that the weapons sound largely underpowered, but nothing that 
 one of the few mods out there can't fix.
  
  The tagline "ever had one of those days" is perfect for this game. As when I have one of those 
 days, Postal 2 is the best game I could play.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: michaelkramer
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 20, 2006 7:21 am PT
Review:  I think that Postal 2 is a game that is so stupid that it make it fun to play. For me everytime 
 time I would kill someone I would imagine that it was one of the games writters telling them to 
 take that for creating a game that was so stupid. Though it was a little pain staking when you 
 would have to walk back and forth from one part of the city back from where you came from and then 
 back there again, as you can see that would be kind of annoying. If you can get this game for a 
 few dollars its worth getting it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nhlkoho
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jan 17, 2006 12:46 pm PT
Review:  I purchased an issue of PC Gamer with a demo of this game on the disc and after playing through 
 that I just HAD to get this game. The graphics suck and the sound isn't all that great but this 
 game has 100 times the violence and humor than the Grand Theft Auto games. What other game can 
 you pour gasoline on people, light them on fire, and then put them out by pissing on them? The 
 game does get VERY repetitive though. I've had this game for a few years and I have not once been 
 able to sit down and complete the whole thing. Killing innocent people with a large variety of 
 weapons is fun but after a while it just gets old. The loading times in this game is by far the 
 most painful part of playing it. Everytime you go to a new neighborhood in town (which is almost 
 every 5 minutes) the game goes back to the loading screen. In Postal 3 I hope they add some more 
 in depth missions instead of going to the grocery store and getting a jug of milk. Now I loved 
 killing the towel head cashier and then pissing on his dead body, it just ended up being a disappointment. 
 So I would like to see an improved graphics engine, improved sound effects, better missions, and 
 of course more unnecessary blood and gore in the next game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dantes_chum
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 23, 2005 2:11 pm PT
Review:  although this game is sick, and make no mistake there... it is sick. it is strangely entertaining. 
 it is like gta on acid, serious sam in a headlock. its crazy and thats why i love it. I suppose 
 the main draw to this game is the errands, they are so simple... this is what makes them so fun 
 to try and achieve in the most perverted wat possible. the gamplay make for fun short bursts of 
 madness, sadly let down by rather long loading screens... Let me put this into perspective, it 
 isn't a final fantasy or half life beater, but if you see it in the 5 quid bargain bin pick it 
 up... its pure fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dope999
Rating: 5.8
Date: Dec 21, 2005 6:37 am PT
Review:  Is some ways, I like Postal 2. Somehow it's very funny to shoot off people's heads, and stun gun 
 them and piss on them and burn them to death. But the game has many bugs, bad graphics, boring 
 sound and stupid gameplay. 
  
  - The good: 
  
  - You can burn almost everything in the game.
  - Makes no sense in a funny way.
  - The daily 
 tasks you can do in a normal day, is finally come to the computer world.
  
  - The bad:
  
  - Too many loading times.
  - Bad graphics, boring sound and stupid gameplay. 
  - Some bugs.
 
  - The civilians wont die when you shoot them in the head with a shotgun!
  - Did I mention the loading times?
  - Awful short campaign.
  
  Somehow I like the game and 
 somehow I don't. I recommended to don't go buy it. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pbspyder221
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 18, 2005 6:15 pm PT
Review:  So many people whine and **** about the story line in this game. The game is an awsome and easy 
 way to take out stress and have fun. The graphics and physics of the game really aren't that bad. 
 The game is also really funny, kinda like one big joke and the gameplay dosen't seem to get boring 
 to me at all. The guns are cool also. The enemies that you fight in the game are pretty funny, 
 like the infidels, police, and just anyone you see. The maps are really good and there is so much 
 to explore, and so many easter eggs in the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sakko
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 7, 2005 8:20 pm PT
Review:  My friends think this game is lame. The GS review team obviously did as well. But I am here to 
 tell you there is some serious action packed fun to be had in this game. We are going to do a little 
 justice for the ole Postal Dude.
  
  Yes, that is the name of your character. This should tell you right away the company designing 
 this game does not take itself seriously.
  
  Postal 2 is many things. It is a political non-statement. A poke of fun in this direction and that 
 at recent events. A place for Gary Coleman to hang out. A culmination of technology leading to 
 one of the most comprehensive "violence simulators" you will ever find. Postal 2 is wacky, crazy, 
 amazing, and just plain dumb all at once.
  
  Basically you start off as a guy that is set for a week (monday through friday) of mayhem and madness. 
 You have some simple tasks to do every day, everything from picking up your paycheck to paying 
 a traffic ticket. You are thrown into crazy scenarios however for instance when you go to cash 
 your check at the bank the bank gets robbed by crazed armed gunmen who start shooting everyone. 
 Do you fight back? Will the police understand if you do? Do you run like hell? Do you rob the bank? 
 The choice is yours.
  
  I love the AI in Postal 2. People on the street do the funniest things. They insult each other 
 which some times leads to beat downs. Some of the pedestrians are packing heat as well and if a 
 cop sees them with a weapon they will tell them to drop the weapon (as they would do to you) and 
 if they do not comply they get shot and beat to death. It's not uncommon to see someone running 
 from a gaggle of boys in blue. If there is a dead body nearby or a detached head laying around 
 and someone sees it, they might just start puking right there, or walk up and kick it for whatever 
 reason.
  
  Everyone is created equal in Postal 2. Priests are just as likely to be packing heat as a farmer's 
 daughter looking pedestrian. You will even find Running With Scissors employees walking around 
 (who are always packing) . They never have a problem with you no matter how much killing is going 
 on, unless of course you try to kill them.
  
  The weapons in Postal 2 are great. You've got a pistol, M-16, Shotgun, Sniper Rifle, Rocket Launcher, 
 Napalm Launcher, and a few others, but the most fun weapon in the game is by far the gas can. The 
 coding on this baby is just sheer genius. You can pour out gas and lay a trail for lighting a wall 
 of flame if you like or pour it out in one spot for a nice big puddle of gas. FWOOMP, up it goes 
 when you light it. You can do a combination as well using the stream of gas leading to the puddle 
 as a sort of fuse. This is so fun on marching bands.
  
  Did I mention marching bands? It's absolutely crazy. People start running around the street on 
 fire, bumping into other people and setting them on fire. The whole population of the town ends 
 up on fire it's just madness I tell you!
  
  Are you already a Postal 2 fan? Here's a little fun tip: Kill a bunch of people and kick all their 
 bodies underneath a car. Then shoot the car and watch the flaming bodies go flying in all directions! 
 Another fun situation is the starting area has a bar called "Fire in the Hole". Lay some gas inside 
 the door out of sight of the pedestrians (who will panic if they see the gas) . Fire off a couple 
 rounds to start a panic then light the gas quickly. Now go back outside, get the door shut and 
 stand in front of it so it won't open. Wait till the screaming stops. Go in and check for survivors 
 lol... so funny.
  
  Another great weapon is the shovel. It makes this satisfying "waPANG!" sound when you smack someone. 
 Hit the head just right and it will come flying right off, blood spurting from the neck.
  
  Another fun thing to do is wait until someone sees a body and gets sick starting to throw up. As 
 soon as they do this, blow their head off and the vomit will actually come streaming right out 
 of their stump-neck! It's little touches to detail like these that make Postal 2 really shine.
 
  
  There are a few problems with the game. On release it took quite a while for different levels to 
 load. And your tasks for the day are so spread out that you might change levels 5 times just getting 
 to your location. Very annoying and not at all built for continuity. The patched version of the 
 game is somewhat better on load times but the architecture of the levels and how far you have to 
 go to do your tasks leaves alot to be desired.
  
  You can progress through Postal 2 however violently or politely you would like to, which to some 
 is bad and some good. It's all up to you. I love games like this as with the rest of the detail 
 of the game allows you to be very creative in how you handle situations.
  
  This game is NOT FOR CHILDREN. Any kid under 14 playing this game has some very irresponsible parents. 
 Kids should be taught to respect reality vs. fantasy and life in general before being given carte 
 blanche on a game like this. The fact that Postal 2 is not real at all is the only reason it is 
 funny. Very funny!
  
  Let's go over the vitals:
  
  Gameplay: Playing Postal 2 is fun time and time again, since you can do whatever you want! And 
 there's lots to do!
  
  Graphics: Graphics are superb for it's time. Using the Unreal engine, people look great, levels 
 look great, it's just a nice looking game.
  
  Sound: FANTASTIC! The music is appropriate but maybe a little lacking. In game sound effects however 
 are spot on, from the metal splish splashy sound of the gas can, to the voiceovers and screams 
 and all that.
  
  Value: I think you get alot with Postal 2. There is also a free level included in the patch. The 
 replay value is very high in my opinion. Heck you can even dress up as a cop and go help fellow 
 law enforcement!
  
  Reviewer's Tilt: I love this game! I would like to have it's babies! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: huss2215
Rating: 7.8
Date: May 7, 2005 5:51 am PT
Review:  This game is very very cool! Very awesome and I love the freedom and I love the violence. Run with 
 sissors go go go! The gameplay is highly addictive and very very fun. Especially to explore this 
 nice NOT so peaceful VIOLENT neighborhood. The only downfall is the fact that the loading to load 
 from different parts of the city to the next take way to long. The loading will anger you so much! 
 But a game with ultimate violence and being able to take a pee pee on someone or just unzip your 
 pants is pretty funnny. The graphics are dull. Nothing surprising, but had bad pixels and shadowing. 
 The sound is normal, the voice acting is lame, and the voice commands are pretty fun to use which 
 made the games sound alright I guess. This game is not much of being worth the pay. Even though 
 it is very very fun, this game is WAY TO SHORT! A matter of five levels and that is all. But if 
 you do get a chance to pick it up, I say you pick up the expansion to this game which features 
 online play. That is all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sandro909
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 4, 2005 2:17 am PT
Review:  Many developers wouldn't dare do as much as Running With Siccors has done with their masterpeice, 
 Postal 2. The game puts you in the role of the "Postal Dude", and places you in a large world, 
 where you can do pretty much whatever you want. If you want to urinate on people until they barf, 
 you can. If you want to use a cat as a silencer, you can. If you want to free the dogs at the pet 
 store and train them to be attack dogs, you can. If you want to hear Gary Coleman say "You *****!", 
 you can.
  
  Gameplay is where Postal 2 shines. You can wander into any building you can see in the whole town 
 (Although it seems pretty big for a town) . There are pedestrians that wander the streets, go to 
 the store and buy things, and live normal lives. There are also forms of law enforcement such as 
 police officers, SWAT teams, and the military. The cops actually act very realistically. First, 
 if they spot you, they will report their sighting, yell at you to drop your weapon (Which you can) , 
 and then apprehend you and bring you to jail, or attack you with their pistol/shotgun if you don't 
 cooperate. The game is all about choices. Will you pay for the donut? Or will you kick open the 
 door, kill the cashier, and take all 21 donuts? You can also unzip your pants at will, and urinate 
 on anything you want. You can even train dogs to protect you. It is all of the little things that 
 make up the greatness of Postal 2's gameplay.
  
  Graphics-wise, Postal 2 looks mighty fine. It uses the Unreal engine, but by today's standards, 
 it still looks very good. Many of the in-store items on shelves and the like are scanned pictures 
 of the real thing, which, from far away, actually look real. Emotions can be seen of the other 
 people from a fair distance away, and show emotions very well. The game uses ragdoll physics, which 
 helps add to the overall sandbox feel, and lets you have some fun with the kick button.
  
  The sound is excellent in Postal 2. The weapons sound extremely powerful. This is the only game 
 that actually made me jump when I fired a weapon. Another sound portion worth noting is the music. 
 The music in the dance clubs and radios around town are very, very well done and make you want 
 to stop and listen to them for a while. Now, onto the not-so-good sound effects. The sound that 
 is heard when selecting something in a menu sounds very Doom-ish, and not up to par with the sound 
 in the rest of the game. Also, some of the voices sound like they were recorded inside a box. However, 
 the Postal Dude and other main characters sound excellent. Postal Dude's voice is perfectly done 
 here. He sounds dangerous, yet funny at the same time.
  
  Once you've finished the game, Postal 2 doesn't have much left to offer. This isn't the longest 
 game ever, but there are lots of little things you might have missed while playing through the 
 first time. Also, when you beat it, cheat codes are unlicked, that you can activate anytime in 
 the in-game menu. These add some life to the game, that wouldn't have been there otherwise.
  
  Overall, Postal 2 is just a very enjoyable experience. It is easily one of the best open-ended 
 games ever made, and one that you shouldn't miss if you are mature enough to handle it, and consider 
 yourself to be a gamer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mynamesdenvrmax
Rating: 5.9
Date: May 2, 2005 5:28 pm PT
Review:  Postal 2 is basically something you should play after a hard day of... life? I wouldnt get this 
 if you're a hardcore story line lover in games, or if you can't distinguish between reality and 
 video games. 
  
  The graphics are good, especially for the time of its release. They take great detail in death 
 scenes also. Bodies fly like rag dolls when expolosions go off. I'm not sure if this is what contributes 
 to the load times.
  
  The gameplay is basically full of just stereotypical people, phrases and racial remarks. The corner 
 store owner is of course an indian man, and when you make him mad he bursts out with a  
 scream, basic stereotypical stuff. I have to admit the game is hilarious, and quite stress relieving 
 until... the load times. Nothing is more annoying about this game than the load times. I mean, these 
 load times are so bad that its kept me from actually trying to get somewhere in the game. It loads 
 small areas at a time, and the loads can be up to 2 minutes an area. But you can enjoy a small 
 area of blowing heads off with the shotgun, igniting innocent bystanders and urinating on them 
 to put out the flames. Theres countless things to do, urinate in policeman's mouths, hit people 
 with the shovel and knocking heads off. Its entertaining, but it easily gets old. I'd recomend 
 cheating, so you dont have to endure load times that are almost as evil as this game. 
  
  The sound, is pretty good, the guns sound good, the phrases sound cheesy, but they're supposed 
 to. Your character sounds like an upset nerd, with a deep voice, but has some rewarding comments 
 after killing people. 
  
  Theres not much else to say about this game, its not really great for the storyline, theres not 
 much of one. Its good for a laugh when you've got friends over or just want to blow of some steam, 
 the legal way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sniper
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jun 5, 2007 9:13 am PT
Review:  GameSpot was being too hard when it awarded Postal 2 a low score of 4.8 -- other publications were 
 equally unfair. Reviewers were tripping over themselves to express their moral superiority and 
 indignation, simply because Postal 2 is infused with an irreverent sense of humor.
  
  True, the game does have its faults. The world (and particularly room design) is kind of barren, 
 with details that would otherwise give it more life, sadly missing. But the experience isn't ruined 
 by this flaw, at least to the extent that other reviewers have complained.
  
  When everyone is moaning about the lack of originality in video games, Postal 2 stands out because 
 it reminds of me of a potty-mouthed version of the TV show Seinfeld -- it's a game about nothing. 
 Yet a lack of plot doesn't stop it from being funny or entertaining. Postal 2 takes the mundane, 
 banal chores of everyday life and turns them into my silly, secret fantasy, which is to go Postal 
 and wreak havoc. Let's face it: Life can be pretty frustrating.
  
  Journalists and politicians and censors were saying Postal 2 is disgusting and warps the minds 
 of gamers. Yeah... It's just a bunch of pixels. Watch the movie The Bad Lieutenant and then play 
 Postal 2 -- you'll quickly see that one of them is actually rooted in social satire and humor. 
 Hint: It's not the movie.
  
  Postal 2 certainly isn't the greatest game in the world, but I'm sure glad to include it in my 
 collection. Peeing on rude bystanders, shooting Osama bin Laden, and kicking in doors is a nice 
 way to burn off stress and enjoy an admittedly immature laugh. Relax, man. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blindclown2000
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 16, 2005 4:33 am PT
Review:  First off, if you offended by senseless violence, public urination, foul language, kicking decapitated 
 heads like soccer balls, and basically everything else that a politician or the holy church would 
 deem evil and insane, than this is NOT the game for you. But now that we've got that out of the 
 way, let's talk about the game, shall we? Basically the story is your life sucks and each day your 
 wife is making it worse by giving you a list of things you have to do each day. Like getting milk, 
 getting Gary Coleman's autograph, returning a library book, cashing your paycheck (after told you 
 were fired) , confessing your sins, pissing on your dear old dad's grave, picking up some napalm 
 for the "weeds", getting a Christmas tree early, and some other stuff. The game usually gives you 
 a choice to do things the right way, like wait in line to get your check cashed or to return a 
 book, or you can just kill everybody and find an alternate yet easy way to finish the job. This 
 game lets you get out all those nasty little demons you've been holding inside of you since you 
 were a wee bit kiddie. As long as you don't take the game seriously, because I believe that it's 
 a slap in the face or a big joke against "them", and as long as you can tell the difference between 
 reality and fantasy, then you should be okay playing this. The game gives you plenty of weapons 
 to dish out the damage, including a shove that can be used to decapitate people, a shotgun that 
 if you fire it at close range your victim's head will explode into chunks, some scissors to throw 
 like a knife, the usual pistol, a sniper rifle (who didn't see that one coming?) , a mad cow diseased 
 head, grenandes, gas can with matches, a rocket launcher with homing missles, automatic rifle, 
 and a napalm gun. Pretty nice. The controls are the usual for a FPS, and you even have a suicide 
 button for when you just can't take it anymore. The graphics are cool, not that great, but not 
 too shabby either. The sound is alright, explosions sound like explosions, but I wish they had 
 done a better job with the automatic rifle, to me it kind of sounds like a child's pop gun. Whoever 
 does the Postal Dude's voice did a good job of sounding delightfully psychotic. 
  
  So basically, if you like a little sensless violence in the morning with your goat milk, then this 
 is the game for you. It's offensive, but then again, it was never to played by kids. So parents 
 don't go off complaining how awful of a game it is for your kids when they're NOT supposed to be 
 playing it in the first place! Hello, that's why we have the rating system is for games like this. 
 But if you ever have a bad day at work or get in a fight with your girlfriend or boyfriend, then 
 just fire up ol' Postal 2 and take out your inner aggressions on the poor helpless citizens of 
 Paradise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fahrenheit1221
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 30, 2005 5:15 pm PT
Review:  Postal 2 may be one of the most underappreciated games of all time scoring below a 7 on almost 
 every gaming website for reasons that are all too vague. A lot of people would like to think they 
 rated it this low because they were afraid of the image it may produce to the public if a decent 
 company or site rated a game this disturbing really high or above average. 
  
  Postal 2 boasts some of the most innovative engines to come out of an undergroud company ever... 
 it's liquid/water engine is absolutely amazing, this imagine allows water particle to form larger 
 puddles as if cohesion is actually happening. The water will follow elevation... pour down hills, 
 off ledges and then make puddles at the bottom. 
  
  Postal 2 has relatively friendly controls and is for the most part pretty good in the gameplay 
 department. With a good feature that will help you if you get stuck, most fps such as the old Duke 
 Nukem games just to name one had several areas where you could get stuck and you would have to 
 kill yourself, this one moves you out of that spot! 
  
  The plot behind Postal 2 is to survive... you are given a list of errands that you must run throughout 
 the course of 1 week. On Monday they start of quite easy, "Get Milk," "Get Paycheck," "Cash Paycheck." 
 As simple as these tasks sound they are not. Postal 2 has a sort of "Chaos Theory," meaning that 
 whatever can go wrong, will go wrong. For example when you go to "Get Paycheck," you must go to 
 the headquarts of your job, which is Running With Scissors (the company that made Postal 2) and 
 you get your chick. Upon getting your check anti-violent video game activists show up and start 
 attacking and torching the place, these are the "Parents for Decency," who you'll hear chanting, 
 "games are bad they make you bad!" This is just one of the "hate" groups, there is also zealot 
 arabs who look like Osama Bin Laden, just like him. There are the rednecks, butchers, Book Activists, 
 who chant, "save a tree, burn a book!"
  
  Postal 2 is packed with crazy, wild and extremely bloody fun. If you love violent video games than 
 this is for you. It is the most absolutely violent game on the market now. This is the only game 
 where you can kill someone with a shovel, then lop their head off and whip out your d*** and urniate 
 all over them... how fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mclazyj
Rating: 6.3
Date: Dec 8, 2004 1:11 am PT
Review:  Postal 2 is a followup to the largely ignored Postal. Scrapping the isometric view that was used 
 in the first game, Postal 2 is a FPS with a depressing social view.
  
  You start the game being screamed at by your wife, and are given a list of things to do for the 
 day. Each day you are given three to five tasks to complete. How you complete them is completely 
 up to you. You can run right through and complete them without firing a shot (was not able to myself 
 however) , or go through guns blazing or a mix of both. 
  
  The environments were good, and the physics were impressive, but the game is small. You play Monday 
 to Friday and there are a total of about 15-20 missions. And if you are offended by crass stereotypes 
 or racial or social demeaning humor, stay as far away as possible. The game pulls no punches in 
 its crass humor. 
  
  The game while average in its merits, will probably bring people in due to its ability to play 
 soccer with someone's head or because of blatent urination or even the ability to kill a digital 
 representation of Gary Coleman. If you want to play the game, look for it in discount bin. You 
 will kick yourself if you pay full price. And be warned, you will feel morally dirty after each 
 session with the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: martlume
Rating: 6.1
Date: Sep 20, 2004 1:38 pm PT
Review:  Postal 2 is a shooter with boring combat and ridiculous loading times, but it deserves a mention 
 for its setting which enables you to identify with the main character like in no game before. Most 
 games place you in a fictional environment, but in Postal you run the everyday tasks: you buy milk 
 from the supermarket, stand in line in a bank, return a book to the library etc. Unfortunately 
 what connects these errands into a plot is that they all turn into violent bloody shootouts, for 
 one reason or none at all. Postal 2 deserves its title of first ever "videogame with violence," 
 although it continously makes fun of the violence topic itself. To sum up, this is a bad game for 
 children. Then again, the zipper button you can use to piss on people and the way you can put a 
 cat on the shotgun to silence a shot are pretty cool :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Royas
Rating: 7.3
Date: Aug 23, 2004 11:47 pm PT
Review:  I think a lot of reviewers are being a little unfair to this game. Sure, it's needlessly violent, 
 crude, obscene and otherwise antisocial, but you knew that going in. It's the hallmark of Postal 
 that it has little to no socially redeeming features.
  
  This is not a game to play if you want tense, tight encounters with deadly opponents who flank 
 you and use their superior AI to provide you with a realistic challenge. This is a game you would 
 use to blow off steam. You run around, you kill things or not as you please, and you stick cats 
 on the end of your shotgun to use as a silencer. Crude, but kind of funny.
  
  The graphics are pretty good, but the faces of the people get very repetitive quickly, and the 
 interiors of buildings are completely uninteresting. Animation flows cleanly, though collision 
 detection needs a LOT of work. Gore is shown in abundance, and is truly kinda sickening.
  
  The sound works well. Decent background noises, the weapons sound very good, and the voice acting 
 and dialogue are surprisingly competent, given the type of game this is. Again, much like the graphics, 
 repetition sets in pretty early.
  
  This is not a bad game, it's just not a particularly good game either. Find it in the bargain bin, 
 and you'll get your money's worth. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matrack666
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 29, 2004 11:10 am PT
Review:  This game is THE best stress and society hate tamer that as ever been created! After a hard day 
 of work amongst the idiots of society, what can feel better than tearing people apart with a shovel 
 or hearing their complains while they burn and puke on the ground? Ok, the point here is that running 
 with scissors released a game without limiting how raw the product would be. I agree with the fact 
 that it is not the best graphics, sound and gameplay ever, but if someone is looking for a major 
 violent, ridiculous, racist and pain inflicting game with the best taunts in town hit you RAM with 
 POSTAL 2! Expansion to be reviewed soon... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: California914
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 3, 2004 4:35 pm PT
Review:  Wow, simply the funnest game i have ever played! Yes it is violent, yes it has launguage but its 
 no worse than some of the R rated movies out there. I mean common i cant beileve people think this 
 gave is foul and harsh, they should go see Hannible, Red Dragon, and a lot of those scary, gruesome 
 play-with-your-mind movies. i mean that stuff is far more worse than some simple adult rated fun 
 in my mind. But hey, i love violent games, i love taking a gastank to someone and lighting them 
 on fire, to me thats just plain cool and not only that but you get to do simple chores on your 
 way to the store, its pretty cool. I dont care what other people think, this game kicks ass to 
 me and im stickin with it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Psychlopesis
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 16, 2003 10:26 pm PT
Review:  Ok. The bottom line on this game is that if you are not the type to enjoy a good laugh every once 
 and a while, don't even pick up the box to look at. To give this game a serious review is absurd. 
 This game is purely a big joke. I realize that if you were to spend $50 on a joke you would be 
 pretty pissed off. It totally disagree with the price of this game. At most it should have been 
 $10. For what this game was meant to be, it accomplishes everything nicely. Nothing can compare 
 to being able to urinate napalm after completing the game once. I found the graphics to be decent. 
 Not the best in a game for sure, but not bad either. I think Postal 2 was a very enjoyable gaming 
 experience in a time when good games are few and far between. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: azrael
Rating: 5
Date: May 25, 2003 10:19 am PT
Review:  ***Warning*** ***Warning
  This game is for adults only, if you do not like the content of this game or its nature, please 
 do not read any further! 
  
  
  
  Never got to play the first Postal. I could never find it at my local gamestore. The idea of a 
 free roaming game where you could go anywhere you wanted, and do anything to anyone that you wanted 
 had perks. When Postal 2 was announced, I was ecstatic. The game I wanted to play, now in 3-D, 
 using the Unreal Engine  could life be any better? Yes. Oh yes it could. Postal 2 is an ultra-violent 
 story of a man going over the edge. Actually, hes already there. The guy, named Dude, doesnt 
 have a care in the world. He goes from Sign my petition, please. Right to Sign my petition or 
 I will follow you home and kill your dog. Postal 2 is riddled with nothing but these types of 
 situations. No, you dont go home and hurt the dog, but you do see other objectionable material 
 as well as more profanity than a standard rated R movie. I dont mind the hardcore violence. I 
 understand this game is nothing more than a parody. I am an adult, and as such, can define that 
 fine line between reality and virtual reality. However, heres what I dont like - Running With 
 Scissors went so far with the content of this game, they forgot to include the game itself!
  
  
  Starting on Monday, you begin the game running everyday errands like picking up your paycheck, 
 or milk for dinner. And thats pretty much it. The only thing that really changes is the day of 
 the week, and instead of going here to pick this up, you go there to pick that up. Heres where 
 the supercharged, thinking process comes in. Do you go and pay postage for your postal package 
 only to have hordes of postal employees charge you with automatic weapons? Or do you simply cut 
 out the middleman and just have postal employees come at you with automatic weapons, saving $300 
 in the process. How non-linear can this game get? Oh wait, one point in the game you actually get 
 to wear a black leather suit. Oh joy.
  
  
  Every once in a while, youll see something that makes you have a good chuckle in the game. That 
 doesnt make $50 worth spent though. Everyday is the same, you have to walk all the way across 
 the map, to pick up or do some meaningless task, waiting every 3-4 minutes for the game to load 
 a new zone throughout the city. The City. Like the Grand Theft Auto series, is indeed a living 
 breathing city. Unfortunately the other people who live there are idiots and just walk around in 
 circles. On top of that, there are only a handful of skins to represent these people. At first 
 you just think you ran into the same guy you just saw down the street, but does he have 50 other 
 identical brothers, all who happen to be wearing the exact same outfit? Yea, youll meet them too, 
 and all will be just as annoying. At first, seeing the city landscape, the people, and thinking 
 of the countless things you can do will seem like a playground built just for you. Trust me, give 
 it an hour, youll be crying in pain. Youll spend more time doing nothing, than doing something. 
 
  
  
  Of course, you wont be alone in your travels. Youll have a fine assortment of the weakest weapons 
 ever built for man to annoy with. A shotgun, Automatic Rifle, S****er Rifle, head of a cow (dont 
 ask) , and a pair of scissors are just some of the weapons youll find in this game. All lame. Point 
 Blank Shotgun round to the body should put one down for good. Unless you aim for the head, it doesnt. 
 You almost have to unload an entire clip of the rifle to even kill someone when one shot should 
 suffice. In the game you have a rocket launcher as well, now this does do damage, unless you run 
 into SWAT whos Kevlar can stop a rocket. Im not kidding. You have napalm rounds you can launch 
 at people and watch them burn. Sometimes, they stop burning, and continue attacking you as if you 
 only doused them with water. Again, not kidding. I believe Running with Scissors intention here 
 was to make the game somewhat harder for the player, so they couldnt coast their way through this 
 game. But could they at least try to make it so the game isnt a chore to take out one guy with 
 a weapon that should wipe out an entire block? Some say thats nitpicking, but it doesnt end there. 
 You can kick people, hard. This is somewhat fun when a body is lying at your feet. But kicking 
 them 5 feet each time, and sometimes, up a wall is getting kind of ridiculous. Oh! I saved the 
 best for last. You can relieve yourself on people and watch them vomit. Or even better, if you 
 get caught on fire, you can just go on yourself and put the fire out. I need to start getting paid 
 to put up with this crap.
  
  
  The graphics of the game are a mixed bag. Some points in the game the civilians of the city look 
 decent, with some good facial texturing. Landscape looks respectable, even the exterior of the 
 houses and buildings look ok. But, once you get inside, its nothing but the worst colors, textures, 
 skinning, and shapes of squares I have ever seen. bland, uninspired, and dull, your surroundings 
 soon become a prison, one that you paid for. Its not like they went crazy with the graphics, but 
 if thats true, why am I still getting collision detection problems in the game? Im running a 
 high end machine, this game is by no means putting any strain on my system, so I know its not 
 the cpu. However, that doesnt stop a guy from soaring through the air into a wall, and hanging 
 there with his leg stuck in the wall like it was some sort of Star Trek Transporter accident. If 
 you walk into a room, and take out 10 people, just try stacking them. Its almost impossible. Instead 
 of lying on top of each other, they just fall into each other  half a head sticking out here, 
 the other half sticking out there. Thats just bad coding.
  
  
  Ok, now we have the sound aspect of this game. Its actually not that bad, other than the fact 
 that the music is somewhat boring. The dialogue is not too shabby. Although the people whom you 
 run into have only a handful of things to say, they say it pretty convincing. The dialogue of your 
 character is pretty much the same, but his handful are often funny enough to make you crack a smile 
 or two at times. The sound effects for the various weapons, livestock, and rural pets of the area 
 are decent enough for you to ignore them, and not think twice. Sadly, this is probably the best 
 part of the game
  
  
  In the end, Running With Scissors tried to make a parody of life in a game, that wasnt really 
 a game. Their idea was sound, but their finished product was horrible. Just because your object 
 of the day is to pick up your laundry doesnt make the game bad, what makes it bad, is that you 
 have to spend 10 minutes doing it, just so you can do it again and again. You spend more time waiting 
 for the game to load, so you can walk 3 minutes, just so it can load another zone for you to walk 
 through. Real soon this game becomes a fight to keep it going, rather than just simply saying Ok, 
 I just wasted fifty dollars, whats next? From the mixed graphics and gameplay, to the most boring 
 game on the planet next to ZZT, this is a game you should avoid. If it werent for Gary Coleman 
 and the sound, this game would receive a much lower score. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DevlinC
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 24, 2008 2:27 pm PT
Review:  NOTE: This is a review i posted in 2003, updated to include the new features Gamespot have added 
 since then (Review Deck and new scoring system) . The content remains the same.
  ------------------------------------
  
  The problem with first person shooters these days is 
 that everyone expects all of them to be the next Half-Life or No One Lives Forever - engrossing 
 storyline, state-of-the-art graphics and literally weeks worth of play. Postal 2 hasn't failed 
 in any of these aspects, simply because it never attempted to reach those heights anyway.
  
  Think Duke Nukem 3D as the best comparison. This game exists almost solely for the humor - 
 whether you're telling people you'll follow them home and kill their dog if they don't sign your 
 petition, to watching Osama Bin Laden looklikes blow themselves up in marching bands (and then, 
 as they writhe around on the ground burning, declare "I'm ready for my virgins now..") there really 
 isn't a dull moment. Gary Coleman with an M16 stands out as one of the funniest moments in first 
 person shooter history for me.
  
  But it's not all humour. A lot of the stickier situations you get into (most are staged after you 
 complete particular errands) are pretty tough (especially considering what little use the Kevlar 
 body armor is..) and it might take you one or two goes to get back out of a burning library or 
 a sieged church (so save your progress!) . 
  
  It does have it's flaws. Graphically, it doesn't look as beautiful as some games, although it's 
 not set in an alien world or an arctic tundra, it's just some town in Arizona - so it could be 
 argued it doesn't have to. Despite the multitude of cars parked around the place, none of them 
 are ever driven by you nor by anyone else. As I said, the Kevlar armor is gone almost as soon as 
 people start shooting at you. The load times can be quite lengthy unless you have a high-end computer.
 
  
  Most heinously, there's very little that would make you come back and play it again. With a city 
 as big as the one in Postal 2, secret errands could have been placed in the buildings (ala Grand 
 Theft Auto) , but the most you'll ever find is a special weapon, or usually just ammo and health 
 packs. And sure, it feels good to take a shovel and beat someone's head off (and then set fire 
 to the head) but unless you have some serious stress in your life, it's not enough. 
  
  I paid 25 for this - the equivalent of $40. I think it would have seemed a better game at 20 
 ($32) . Consider it a stop-gap until the next generation of FPS (Doom 3, Half Life 2) arrives - 
 a nice reminder of it's past before we leapfrog into it's future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rdez6173
Rating: 5.6
Date: May 5, 2003 4:33 pm PT
Review:  Postal 2 is a very unique game in a few different ways. While the concept is nothing new, this 
 game does bring some innovative ideas and concepts to the FPS realm.
  
  At first glance, this game is a violent, vulgar FPS with no plot. But, upon playing the game, you'll 
 realize that this is exactly what Running With Scissors (RWS) had in mind. The point of the game 
 really isn't to complete goals and follow a storyline. It is more of an outlet for mature gamers 
 to release their frustrations and grab a few visceral thrills.
  
  With that, the gameplay is decent, if you are looking for some mindless fun. If you are looking 
 for something else, look elsewere. The only real drawback from the gameplay is the graphics. While 
 the Unreal 2 engine is amazing, this game seems to have missed the mark. It's almost like buying 
 a Ferarri and driving it no faster than 40mph. If only RWC would have incorporated model damage, 
 or damage effects to the NPCs (such as in Soldier of Fortune) this game would have been much more 
 satisfying.
  
  Other than the graphics, this game isn't ungodly bad. There are a few bugs here and there, but 
 nothing major. The only other real problem is ridiculous and seemingly unnecessary load sequences. 
 Many times throughout the game, you will have to traverse the city to run "errands" and during 
 this time, you may experience five or six 10-20 second load screens. This is a real gameplay killer.
 
  
  Bottomline, if you want a quick killing spree fix, this grab this game. Otherwise, it's not worth 
 having in your software collection. I recommend that you try the demo before buying this game to 
 avoid any disappointment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BMWGamer
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 23, 2003 7:49 pm PT
Review:  First off, you will need a good PC to enjoy this game. I have a heavy duty gaming rig so I had 
 no problems whatsoever with it. However, my friend on a Pentium III 256 MB of RAM and a crappy 
 to ok graphics card couldnt run it for sh**. 
  
  If you CAN run this game, by all means buy it. The game is hillarious. Thats the first thing you 
 will notice. The character is a badass pissed off white trash redneck. You can do whatever you 
 want. If you feel like walking down the street, unzipping, pissing on a cop, then pull out a shovel 
 and knock his head off you can. And thats only the beginning, you could play soccer with his head, 
 or ignite the corpse and kick it down a hill at more innocent bystanders. The graphics are pretty 
 darn good, the weapon sounds get the job done (especially the shovel) , and the UT2003 engine rocks. 
 I love the ragdoll effects and the smoothe gameplay. This is the type of game where you sit around 
 with your friends and just see what kind of stupid fun you can have with it, it will deffinately 
 get you and your friends laughing.
  
  The only downside to this game is the loading. Even with a nice computer you will have to go through 
 several load zones to navigate the city. The loads take around 10 seconds for me but if I need 
 to cross town completely that can be a pain in the a**. 
  
  But I give the game a well earned 8.9, if you can run it, go buy it, you will get a lot of laughs 
 out of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctor_kaz
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 22, 2003 5:28 am PT
Review:  At the risk at being judgmental, I wonder if Gamespot gave Postal 2 a low score to cover their 
 butts and avoid the controversy of plugging such a violent game. The final product is actually 
 amusing, and fun to play. There is no point to the game, but so what? There is no point to The 
 Sims either. I would recommend this game to First-person shooter fans looking for something, um, 
 different that is moderately challenging and humorous (in a sick and demented manner) . This game 
 makes for a pretty good anti-social behavior simulator, and there's more than just a few sick laughs 
 in the box. 
  
  In this game, you play the Postal Dude, a frustrated white trash guy living in a trailer park 
 in Arizona with his naggy wife, who sends him on various life errands. There is no plot or story 
 to the game. You simply spend a week buying milk, returning a library book, cashing your check, 
 getting your laundry, and even getting Gary Colemans autograph. You can do this however you like. 
 You can wait in line at the bank, or you can throw a grenade into the bank to clear everyone else 
 out. Or, you can pour gasoline onto the ground and light the trail. If you do that though, you 
 can expect the cops to start hunting you down. Its a simple formula, but it works very well. 
 
  
  By now, you are probably getting an idea of how offensive the game is. Running With Scissors went 
 out of its way to insert as much un-PC material into the game as possible. The dialog is filled 
 with four-letter words. Muslims and Christians should be equally offended by the blatant stereotypes 
 in the game. Animal rights activists will not appreciate the cruelty to cats and dogs. The game 
 is extremely graphic when it comes to violence. Decapitated bodies spurt blood and dying bodies 
 twitch. 
  
  The strength of Postal 2 is that it creates a virtual living, breathing city full of inhabitants 
 about as well as any game I have seen. Every area looks different. There is a grocery store, a 
 bank, an industrial area, a shopping mall. You name it. Lots of pedestrians roam the street having 
 conversations and the streets are lined with ordinary businesses and houses that you can walk into. 
 Houses have inhabitants (who dont like it when you barge in) and sometimes a guard dog. The attention 
 to detail is excellent. Grand Theft Auto 3 is the only game I have played which creates a virtual 
 city of this quality.
  
  Like GTA3, the game offers you freedom, freedom, and more freedom. Other than occasional scripted 
 shooter levels that you have to fight your way through, you have all sorts of freedom to accomplish 
 tasks when and how you want. The game encourages exploration and you can often find goodies stashed 
 in hidden areas. If you read posters and notices closely, you can find some hilarious stuff. The 
 game also has lots of behaviors to discover. You can experiment with various inventory items and 
 see what happens. You can use doggie biscuits to train an attack dog and you can beat on an ATM 
 with a shovel to get money out.
  
  Another major strength of this game is the AI. Postal 2 also has very good, realistic AI (given 
 the context, of course) . Cops and citizens react kinda like you would expect them to when you pull 
 out a shotgun or unzip your pants. The reaction of citizens, cops, and animals to your anti-social 
 behavior is what makes the game so entertaining. It also makes it somewhat challenging in some 
 areas  if you barge into a room full of cops and armed citizens with your shotgun out, you are 
 liable to get shot at. There is actually some challenge involved in going on a rampage in this 
 game.
  
  Are there any disappointments? Yes. For starters, the graphics are not as great as they are billed 
 to be. I would rank them as above average only. The variety of dialog in the game is sort of 
 low. Every situation has only two or three scripted responses. There simply arent enough lines 
 of voice-acted dialog in this game. But worst of all, are the TERRIBLE loading times in this game. 
 This game has horribly slow loading times, and they become very annoying when you are in a tough 
 area and you have to reload your game a bunch of times. The game wont give you a great deal of 
 playing time -- maybe 20 hours  at least until some mods come out, and the skys the limit there.
 
  
  If you can get past the offensiveness of the material and you are looking for an FPS that is different 
 and fun, then I recommend that you pick up Postal 2. Just make sure that you heed the M for 
 Mature warning, because it REALLY needs it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: WayneS
Rating: 7.9
Date: Apr 17, 2003 3:31 pm PT
Review:  I would anticipate that the ratings for this game will go from the very low to the very high. Sure, 
 it has bad language but the box and opening screens warn of that. It is totally violent but to 
 have violence simply for the sake of violence isn't the reasoning behind things in this game. This 
 game is not simply a first-person shooter like Serious Sam or Unreal2: Awakening. 
  
  To look a little past the bad language and violence, this game takes most of the 'bad' in our society 
 and puts it all into one small town, and does it with quite a sense of humor. Postal Dude's comments 
 about 'Crack won't buy itself,' the religious priest that begins killing people on the street as 
 a way to protest violence, the Osama look-a-likes that fanatically kill anyone they choose, the 
 obviously crooked cops, and the parent anti-gaming anti-violence hate groups that invade RWS and 
 kill everyone inside... It's all our hypocritically good, but evil, wrapped into one small town. 
 I love it!
  
  I make computer games myself and have worked on many titles including several well-known shooters. 
 I too have gotten caught-up in the publisher-forced cycle of making politically correct games that 
 try to please everyone for the sake of better sales. 
  
  I applaud RWS for having the 'balls' to be committed to making a game such as this. My game development 
 career began about 15 years ago in garages-turned-offices where we made games that WE wanted to 
 make, using the subjects and material that WE wanted to use. We weren't constantly under the microscope 
 to make things that minimized violence or bad language. If we wanted it in there, then hell, we 
 put it in there. I long for those days and it's like a breath of fresh air, at least from this 
 old game developer, to see a company like RWS that's committed to making a game that probably won't 
 top the charts in sales, but is still a project they took pride in making. 
  
  Sure, some things in the game could be improved. There's too many loading zones that force a player 
 wait, and the interior textures and models could be a little better. But overall, it's ahead of 
 it's time. Years ago, people blasted DOOM for being overly violent. But look where it's taken gaming 
 10 years later. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: breethon
Rating: 3.5
Date: Apr 16, 2003 8:46 pm PT
Review:  WARNING! This game has VERY FOUL Language! I have little kids and when I started playing this game, 
 I had to turn the sound off. Everytime your guy gets hit he either says F*** or S***. Then the 
 tasks that you have to do are pretty pointless, I mean, the poor guy who can kill anything that 
 moves puts up with a jerk of a wife. Why not just bump her off and be done with it? This game really 
 has NO STORY other than just trying to kill as many people as you can, which might I add gets old 
 after you use each weapon a few times. And everytime you go to a new area the load time takes forever 
 up to a minute in some spots. If you want to play a good game play Mafia. Don't buy this game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mangamatt
Rating: 2.3
Date: Apr 15, 2003 3:39 pm PT
Review:  Oh my god what was running with scissors thinking when they made this game. Let me start by saying 
 I bought this game to day and I also returned this game today, after installing this game I was 
 truly anxious to play it one would think the fact that it was running on the new unreal engine 
 that the characters and interiors would look better than they did back when half life released 
 (trust me the fact that I even mention half life doesnt mean I would ever compare the two.) then 
 to learn that I would be forced to do menial daily tasks like getting milk and then Im lucky enough 
 to either get to kill like 90% of the people in the store or wait this may be to good you get to 
 stand in a line and pay for it no way you can stand in lines to get money and buy milk wow they 
 made a working grocery store please what the hell were they thinking. Now after accomplishing this 
 feat you are then treated to a world filled with loading times I feel like Im playing the first 
 final fantasy Im left with a loading screen it seems like every five steps now call me crazy but 
 I have played some MMORPG and they dont seem to have to load ever and ones like Ashrons Call look 
 1,000 times better. I would like to say Im not one to buy a game for extreme violence but one 
 would expect this game to at least come close to soldier of fortune in that area well it isnt 
 even close in fact the game play doesnt even come close to the worst FPS you can imagine pick 
 one Im not listing crappy games and Im not joking it is that bad. I guess this game got a chuckle 
 out of me because of the fact that you can piss on people but toilet humor is only funny for so 
 long when you arent five years old any more the game is loaded with kindergarten humor like bathrooms 
 with crap every were I actually started to feel more embarrassed that this was made by an American 
 or a human Im pained to think that somebody at running with scissors actually thought this was 
 a cool and funny game. So where this game does succeed in is taking the blame for the next columbine. 
 Running with scissors would have done better to just take a crap in each box before it shipped 
 just so that when you open it if you are unfortunate enough to perches this game you would immediately 
 know to return it and they could have pulled of one huge turd joke in the process thus making it 
 easer than subjecting your computer to putting such junk on it.
  by Matt Latstetter.
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
