-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Postal
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/postal/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 17, 1997
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.6
Critic Score: 5.7, 2 Review (s)
User Score: 6.7, 338 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ripcord Games
Developer: Running W Scissors
Genre: Modern Shooter
Date:     Sep 30, 1997

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
It's irreverent and gruesome to say the least, not to mention a little disturbing. 

 It's finally happened. The game that will make the entire Christian Coalition explode in an immense 
 mushroom cloud of religious fervor is finally here. Mortal Kombat can't touch its hemoglobin content. 
 The teenage hijinks of the much-denounced Night Trap are nothing compared to the all-out psychopathic 
 killing spree of Postal. Even Carmageddon isn't quite in its league of violence.   

 After coming home from work to find his house repossessed, the player-character, affectionately 
 known as Postal Dude, decides that everyone is out to get him and goes... well... postal. He figures 
 that everyone in town has been infected with something that makes them all psychopathic killers. 
 Paranoia can be fun. The game gets under way with Postal Dude standing outside his home, unable 
 to get inside but armed to the teeth nevertheless. Go figure. Moving from one surreal landscape 
 to the next, you must make use of the twelve weapons at your disposal in order to dispatch anything 
 with a pulse. Men, women, children - it doesn't matter if they're shooting at you or not, fill 
 'em full of lead! The goal in each of the 16 levels is to off a given percentage of the "hostiles" 
 (that is, cops, soldiers with missile launchers, rednecks with huntin' rifles, etc.) without getting 
 killed yourself. Pretty simple, really. There are no magic power-ups, no special abilities - just 
 you, your arsenal, and the occasional Kevlar vest or first-aid kit.   

 While uncomplicated in terms of action, Postal does have quite an involved plot. Unfortunately, 
 about all you'll be able to decipher for certain is that you must kill everyone. The question of 
 whether it's Postal Dude who's crazy or everyone else is even debatable right up until the mind-twisting 
 finale. The rest of the back story will be explained, according to Ripcord Games, in an upcoming 
 Guide to Going Postal. You do get tiny glimpses into the elaborate scenario through the entries 
 from Postal Dude's diary, which are displayed between levels. Phrases like "The earth is hungry. 
 Its heart throbs and demands cleansing. The earth is also thirsty." lead one to believe that something's 
 not quite right in Postal Dude's noggin. As anyone can see, this is most certainly not a game for 
 the kiddies.   

 Each time a round hits your intended target, a brilliant jet of crimson gore splashes to the ground. 
 When you've fired enough lead and your prey finally slumps to the ground, he or she usually crawls 
 around or claws across the ground groaning in agony, uttering pathetic phrases like "Kill me now!" 
 and "I can't breathe! I can't see anything!" All the while, Postal Dude fires off action-hero one-liners 
 like "Aw, did that hurt?" and "Going... going... gone!" It's irreverent and gruesome to say the 
 least, not to mention a little disturbing. In one level, you are afforded the opportunity to waste 
 an entire marching band.   

 While it would have been notable as a first-person shooter, the developers decided to give Postal 
 a unique look. The characters are real-time 3D polygonal sprites rendered against hand-painted 
 two-dimensional backgrounds. Integration between the two is very well executed, and the dingy watercolor 
 scenery adds to the general air of psychosis. The view, which alternates between classic three-quarter 
 isometric and a top-down perspective, is sometimes cluttered. When your character is out of sight, 
 getting riddled with hot lead behind a tall building, the game's much-hyped X-ray halo effect isn't 
 quite enough compensation. This is really the only weak spot in a satisfyingly over-the-top graphic 
 display. Beware, owners of less-than-top-notch PCs, the explosions and flying bodies come fast 
 and furious causing the frame rate, even on the fastest Pentiums, to suffer. This, of course, allows 
 for some lovely Peckinpah-esque moments when the frame rate conveniently slows to a crawl just 
 as a gas station explodes around you and the assault rifle bucks in your hand.   

 The soundtrack has enough diversity to keeps things interesting. While some of the victims' more 
 repetitive cries of pain can get incredibly annoying, there's a wide variety of shouts, screams, 
 and depraved punch lines. The musical score, which is reserved for menus and interludes, is a fusion 
 of nails-on-the-chalkboard effects and tunes that Trent Reznor would scrap for being too disturbing. 
 It fits perfectly, and during the actual gameplay the suspense is maximized by a constant buzzing 
 drone - you know, the kind that psychos hear inside their heads.  

 Postal's straightforward, violence-is-everything approach, along with the fact that the keyboard 
 controls are identical to the Quake/Doom lineage, makes for some pretty simple gameplay. Unfortunately, 
 simple can sometimes mean boring and, alas, this is the case here. As in any shooter, the one-player 
 gameplay gets tedious. As level after level of nonstop carnage goes flying by, one can't help but 
 wish for real human opponents. In Doom, Quake, and many other multiplayer games, this has been 
 easily remedied. Simply dial up your buddy or enter his IP address or log on to one of ten different 
 gaming networks, and you're able to play a co-op game or Capture-The-Flag or simply deathmatch 
 your way to oblivion. Not true with Postal. While it does work well in multiplayer mode, the choices 
 are limited. There is no co-op play on the game's standard levels. You have to create your own 
 levels with the included editor for that. Instead, it's one big free-for-all, which can be fun 
 but requires very little strategy. To compound the insufficient multiplay, you can't communicate 
 during play and you can't dial your opponent's modem directly. Sure, most Quake players do it over 
 the Web, but there's still a sizeable percentage of head-to-head gamers who connect over the phone. 
 This is a grievous oversight on the part of the developers and one that, due to overwhelming negative 
 feedback, they intend to remedy with a patch.  

 The lack of longevity in the single-player mode and the simplistic multiplayer options make Postal 
 a moderately fun ride, at best. Never before has the computer gamer been able to act out the darkest 
 fantasies of a homicidal maniac with such abandon, but the impressive volume of carnage is the 
 only thing setting Postal apart.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (4 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Tinkertown
Rating: 1
Date: Jul 26, 2008 2:02 pm PT
Review:  If you speak to anyone who has heard of the postal series they will usually love it or hate it.
 
  
  This is the problem... i love Postal 2... but Postal 1.... hmm.
  
  Postal, is simply about one guy going postal on his town... thats it for the story. 
  
  The 
 game is insanely dark and disturbing... a game that has been spawned from the very depths of hell 
 itself. Revealed to you is some of the "Demons" darkest thoughts. 
  
  The game itself is completely pointless... how it is considered as a masterpiece i dont know. It 
 is clever how they combine the art and 3D graphics but it is nothing really special. These are 
 the kind of games that make me feel like an over protective mother of the world... because personally 
 Postal is pointless and isnt really anything special at all and personally i think that it is one 
 of the worst games ever. Postal 2 was different.... yes it was pointless also it was also a bit 
 more fun, there were missions you could do whilst you freely roamed the city of Paradise... it 
 was still at some points disturbing but nothing on the levels of this game.
  
  It is much more like a game for flash... in fact i probably would have appreciated it more if it 
 was a flash game.
  
  
  Sorry if this review was no help to anyone but i had to express home much this game dissapointed 
 me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: error404_
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 17, 2007 3:31 pm PT
Review:  If you like GrandTheft Auto, this is the game for you.
  
  Its quiet old but the game play will make you forget of its mediocre graphics.
  
  You dont 
 have as much freedom like in GTA,
  but the concept is similar, for no reason you just start out in middle of a house area with a machine 
 gun and you just start shooting around and kilI everybody.
  
  The game is straight violence and cruelty,
  half the enemy (?) in the map is civilian who will 
 just run off screaming and when they are shot you hear them screaming and suffering crawling on 
 the ground and eventually dies, which is realistic.
  
  Shoot n blowup gas station,
  play easy mode and spray and play, its plain fun its a bit cruel but is a great game to relief 
 stress or just to laugh at.
  
  since the game is old you should check the bargain bin,
  should be fairly cheap by now and this game still will be worth your money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dinghy_Dog
Rating: 6.9
Date: May 3, 2006 7:43 am PT
Review:  :Good Idea:
  Crazy violence like you've never seen in a game. There's tons of suffering to be had.
  When 
 you get to hurl a molotov cocktail at a big band, you know the programmers did something right. 
 Kudos!
  Co-Op mode, which is always nice.
  
  :Bad Idea:
  When you beat it, it feels like the life of the game is over.
  Level editor is way too hard 
 to figure out.
  Sometimes you feel like you're a crazy looney running around because this game is over the top 
 sick.
  
  :Overall:
  A classic game that has its good points, but there's not much to it after you beat it. Yet, today 
 this game is kind of cheap so the value is a lot better. *Not for the sissy or hippie. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tekki2034
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 15, 2006 9:58 pm PT
Review:  Postal 1 is exactly what it set out to be, a ridiculously violent, action-packed top down shooter. 
 If you like violent games, simple games, funny games, in fact, if you like games and are not offended 
 easily, this game is for you. No more censure or any form of restraint, Postal was one of the first 
 game to defy the linear video game industry. Bringing people down with a machine gun and then executing 
 them while babbling something about politics as never been this fun. Hell i don't even think it 
 was ever done before that. The gameplay is tight, the sound are really cool (especially Dude's 
 voice) , only the graphics aren't as top notch as the rest of the game. But even there, its not 
 that bad. Now, if you think that you won't be able to find the game is store, well, you're probably 
 right. BUT, you can download the game, including the expansion pack, for only $20 on Running With 
 Scissors's web site : www. gopostal. com. So i suggest you just do that. Postal is a great way to 
 kill your time, no pun intended. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
