-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: PowerSlave
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/powerslave/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Feb  6, 1997
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.6
Critic Score: 4.8, 1 Review (s)
User Score: 7.4, 26 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Playmates
Developer: Lobotomy Software
Genre: Sci-Fi First-Person...
Date:     Dec 31, 1996

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
If you can find a copy of Powerslave at a discount - say, $20 to $25 - it might be worth a look; 
 despite all its flaws, I still had fun playing it. 

 Have you ever seen the Excedrin commercial where the guy says he uses Tylenol for everything except 
 headaches? I always thought that was a really lamebrain ad because it mentions the competitor's 
 product before - and almost as often - as the one it's trying to sell.  

 Why am I talking about an Excedrin commercial instead of Powerslave, Playmate Interactive Entertainment's 
 entry into the insufferably crowded first-person shooter market? Because at PIE's web site they 
 do exactly the same thing: In the section for Powerslave is a caption that reads, "Duke May Rock 
 But Ramses Rules" - not a wise comparison when the game you're pushing lacks several key features 
 of that classic.  

 Hey, I'm not saying Powerslave is a bad game: When you stack it up against stuff like ZPC, Alien 
 Trilogy, and Rex Blade, it comes out smelling like roses. But put it against the cream of the crop 
 - Quake, Duke Nukem 3D, SKYnet, and the freeware demo Redneck Rampage - and it moves quickly into 
 the "just OK" zone.  

 You play as a covert operations specialist who's been ferried into the Egyptian city of Karnak to 
 find out who or what has sealed off the town from the rest of the world. The only information you 
 have is from a villager who somehow managed to escape; before he died, he said someone had invaded 
 the city, stolen the mummy of the Pharoah Ramses, and was attempting to bring him back to life. 
 The intruders are also embalming and mummifying live villagers to keep the populace in line.  

 
 As you start the game, all you have to defend yourself is a machete, but just as in any one man 
 war, there are plenty of weapons and pgwer-ups just waiting to be grabbed: an M-60 machine gun, 
 hand grenades, a flamethrower, and a slew of magical items that do everything from making you invincible 
 to replenishing your life meter.  

 For a 3-D shoot-'em-up, Powerslave has a couple of nice twists. Some areas aren't accessible unless 
 you push objects around, either revealing new doorways or providing a stepping stone to jump over 
 a wall. Because there are several places where you have to perform some accurate leaps, the inclusion 
 of a third-person perspective can be a big help in calculating jumps. And the magical items add 
 depth to gameplay because you have to decide what to use and when to use it, not to mention collecting 
 enough "magical essence" to enable to you unleash the spells. And a training mode allows you to 
 get used to the interface and various commands without worrying about enemies.  

 Powerslave also earns fairly high marks in the graphics department: The enemies are nicely textured 
 and shaded, and you have to get almost on top of them before you start noticing pixels. The sound 
 effects are also good, marred only by your character's apparent multiple personality disorder: 
 He sounds like three or four different people, depending on what he's doing.  

 So far, so good. But compare it to Duke Nukem 3D - they did it, not me! - and its weaknesses stand 
 out like the Great Pyramids in the Valley of the Kings. Probably the most annoying is the game's 
 wretched save-game feature, which reveals the game's PlayStation's origins. Instead of being able 
 to save a game at any point during play, you have to give a new game a name and then save it at 
 certain points within each level; your progress is automatically saved at the end of a level.  
 

 What this means is that if you quit and load a saved game, you're forced to start at the beginning 
 of a level regardless of how far you progressed in that level the last time you played. The save 
 game feature is a little more forgiving if you don't exit the game because you're only taken back 
 to the last mid-level save point, but it's still a far cry from being able to save every single 
 bit of your progress as you can in Duke, Quake, or about any other quality shooter you care to 
 name. I've got no problem with a PlayStation game being ported to PC so long as the translation 
 takes advantage of the new platform - something that clearly wasn't done here.  

 There are other problems in Powerslave probably related to the slapdash conversion from console 
 system to PC. Want to use your fancy programmable gamepad to play Powerslave? Well, that's too 
 bad, because there's no joystick or gamepad support whatsoever. Since most of us like to move as 
 fast as we can in these kind of games, the absence of an "always run" button - another common feature 
 in first-person shooters - is a real mystery. There are no adjustable difficulty settings; strafing 
 left or right is too slow to be effective, even if you're holding the run button; and at seven 
 weapons, counting the near-useless machete and a boring (but effective) Cobra Staff, the arsenal's 
 not exactly breathtaking. And the shortcomings continue in multiplayer mode. While 12 multiplayer-only 
 levels is acceptable, it doesn't begin to approach the number of multiplayer levels in Duke or 
 Quake. What's more, there's no option to play with monsters on, and you can't exit from one level 
 to another - to move to a new level you have to quit and start a new game. There aren't any armor 
 bonuses in the levels, so the only way to get new armor is to die. And though the advertising copy 
 at the Powerslave web site claims you can use Windows 95's dial-up networking for head-to-head 
 play, a call to the PIE Tech Support department revealed the truth: The game only supports multiplayer 
 games over an IPX-compatible network.  

 If you can find a copy of Powerslave at a discount - say, $20 to $25 - it might be worth a look; 
 despite all its flaws, I still had fun playing it. Pay any more, though, and it will be like shelling 
 out full price for day-old falafel.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (2 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: ReviewPro
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 28, 2005 9:17 am PT
Review:  I got this game years ago and it has been one of my favorates ever since. The levels are very nicely 
 designed, the objectives of the game are brilliant, and the music is absolutely amazing!.
  
  In the game you are to collect several artifacts to help you complete it all. These artifacts 
 include: Sandals that give you higher jumping power, a mask to help you swim underwater, an item 
 that gives you the ability to glide down from high places, protective anklets to help you walk 
 over lava covered areas, a stick like object which allows you to walk through trap blocked areas 
 without getting hurt, and finally a feather that gives you the ability to fly.
  
  Also in the game you have to collect all of your transmitter pieces which are scattered and hidden 
 in several different places, but if you dont bother with these and you try to complete the game, 
 you will get a very big but bad suprise at the end.
  
  Once the game is completed the fun isnt over as there are still over 20 team dolls out there to 
 collect. 
  
  As ive said before the music on this game is clearly amazing, the tunes really fit in with the 
 actual game! and the storyline is also one of the most greatest points of this game.
  
  I highly reccomend this game to all fans of 1st person shooting games, so if youre one of those 
 people and you havnt yet played this game/dont yet own it, then go out and look for it! because 
 in my opinion youll enjoy every minute of it!
  
  Youll probably not be able to find it in shops as it is very rare these days, so i suggest that 
 if youre interested in it, then go onto ebay or any other internet shop that you can find it in.
 
  
  Overall this game is a great game as ive already said and in my opinion it is also very addictive, 
 so go and find it if you dont already have it, its definately worth the cash! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kinkyfriend_85
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 8, 2004 10:32 am PT
Review:  You're sent to the Egyptian city of Karnak, heavily armed. To investigate strange happenings. Soon 
 you are to discover that aliens have invaded the place.
  To blast them off, you are like told before, heavily armed.
  
  It is very hard from times to 
 times, but with it's detail, especially in the athmosphere it will make you continue play whether 
 it is hard to do so or not.
  
  Since it is a port of a Playstation game it does not run like it would if it was not, It has minor 
 problems such as getting it to run on some systems.
  But once you get over with that, you will have fun like never before.
  
  This game is a must 
 have if you're a FPS player. But make no misstake, since it is not the usual kind of FPS. It is 
 not one of many games, it is very so special. With the tense feel and the fact that it all feels 
 so real-time it will make you game like never before.
  
  If it was not for the fact that it has rather limited graphics such like that only a few colors 
 have been used, it would have been a better graphical experience, but the fun factor makes you 
 forget about that.
  
  If you like the better looking kind of games, you should be looking elsewhere.
  But if you like 
 the doom-like games but with a little more of a plot, then this is a must have for you, dont think. 
 GO AND GET IT.
  
  Overall this is a 8/10 game 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
