-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Power Chess 98
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/puzzle/powerchess98/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar  9, 1998
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.6
Critic Score: 7.6, 7.7 Review (s)
User Score: 7.7, 9 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Sierra Entertainment
Genre: Board
Date:     Nov 30, 1998

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
If Sierra can up the ante in terms of tutorials, game analysis, and openings, the next Power Chess 
 will have the stuff to challenge Chessmaster 5500 for chess supremacy. 

 Sierra On-Line set a lofty goal for this second edition of its Power Chess series: to create a computer 
 opponent who plays chess like a human. And we're not just talking about designing the AI so that 
 the computer foe - called the Power Chess King - makes a few mistakes now and then, either. Sierra 
 claims that the Power Chess King's "mood" changes throughout the course of a match based not only 
 on a slew of variables such as how well the pieces have been developed and how exposed his king 
 is, but also on how he perceives those variables.  

 Power Chess' online manual has a fairly good explanation of how it works, chock-full of words like 
 "hysteresis," "tropism," and "rexotropic." But in the end, only one thing matters: Does it or doesn't 
 it play like a human opponent? I can't claim to be an expert on such matters, especially considering 
 that I'm only a middling pawn-pusher, but after many matches with the King, I'd have to say its 
 play does exhibit some of the hallmarks of a human.  

 If the King is pressing to finish you off quickly because of a weakness he's detected in your position, 
 for instance, he'll sometimes miss the best move - perhaps a move that would reward him with a 
 nice gain in material. And even if you've fallen far behind, you should never give up against the 
 King unless the situation is extremely desperate: In several matches where it looked as if my defeat 
 was inevitable, I turned the tables and found the King begging for a draw!  

 Of course, other chess programs have weaker opponents that will miss moves and pursue recklessly, 
 but the difference here is that the Power Chess King has been designed to adjust his play to your 
 level. As your Power Chess rating (not to be confused with USCF or FIDE ratings) increases, his 
 play becomes stronger. So while I enjoyed victories in my first two or three outings, things got 
 a lot tougher in very short order.  

 After each match with the King, the Power Chess Queen - backed by the impressive WChess engine, 
 which scored a win against Deep Blue three years ago and has defeated several US champions - will 
 analyze the game for you. It's up to you just how deep her evaluation is, and it's delivered in 
 a voice that's almost a little too sexy for its own good: Every time the Queen speaks, I think 
 I'm about to hear a pitch for fat-free ice cream or a Lean Cuisine dinner.  

 In addition to the King, you can also play against the Queen, the Prince and the Princess (they 
 play at the difficulty level of your last game with the King, except the Princess will use the 
 WChess engine in the "middlegame") , the Nobles (opponents you've created by determining aggressiveness, 
 speed of play, and other factors) , and the commoners. The 20 Commoners are precustomized opponents 
 ranging in strength from very weak to nearly as strong as the Queen, with each sporting a distinct 
 style of play. Seven of the commoners are based on famous chess luminaries, including Anatoly Karpov, 
 Yasser Seirawan, Bobby Fischer, Judit Polgar, and Mikhail Botvinnik.  

 There are a few problems in execution in Power Chess 98, some surprisingly basic in their nature. 
 One of the most vexing is that you must always use the funky "Fischer clock" when playing against 
 the King (it adds a certain amount of time to your clock when you make a move) - not exactly the 
 best way to prep for an over-the-board match with a human, where the Fischer clock is almost never 
 used. Other annoyances include the absence of a "force move" command to hurry up a dawdling computer 
 opponent, interminable load times (due in part to a "King enters room to play" animation that you 
 can only skip once it's onscreen) , and the inability to use clocks during Internet play (more about 
 online play later) .  

 Still, there's no denying that Power Chess 98 is an exciting and unique chess program. For me, though, 
 the biggest factor in deciding which chess program to buy is how well it helps you learn the concepts 
 of chess and improve your play - and here Power Chess 98 takes a backseat to Chessmaster 5500, 
 the reigning champ of chess programs.  

 All you get in the way of tutorials, for example, is a hypertext version of Advanced Strategies: 
 My System by Aron Nimzowitsch. It's an outstanding book, to be sure, but no attempt has been made 
 to make use of the power of the computer: There's no speech, no moving pieces - nothing more than 
 a copy of each printed page. Compare that with CM 5500's 26 chess tutorials - some featuring multimedia 
 presentations, and all of which are subdivided into very specific categories - and it's easy to 
 see which program comes out on top when it comes to exploring and explaining the various aspects 
 of play.   

 For chess lovers, there's nothing like poring over some of the classic games that have been played 
 over the years - but aside from 50 illustrative games in Nimzowitsch's Advanced Strategies, you 
 only get seven classics in Power Chess 98, compared with hundreds in CM 5500. It's true that nearly 
 all of CM 5500's games feature text-only annotations, as opposed to the lilting voice of the Queen 
 describing the seven classics in Power Chess, but CM 5500's auto-annotate feature means that any 
 classic game can be annotated with voice narration.  

 Then there's analysis of your games. I'm not certain why the developers decided to only let the 
 Queen analyze games you play against the King, but in my opinion it was a bad move: Who wouldn't 
 want her expertise regarding games you've played against a human opponent or against one of the 
 other computer opponents? Power Chess 98 does have an analyze-game feature that will evaluate the 
 moves in any game, but it's text-only and presented in a format that's much more difficult for 
 beginning and intermediate players to understand than the spoken auto-annotation in CM 5500.  

 
 One of the most crucial keys to improving your game is mastering the myriad opening move sequences 
 - collectively called the opening book - and here again Power Chess 98 takes second place to CM 
 5500. To put it bluntly, there simply isn't an opening book where you can study the thousands of 
 opening lines developed by players over the years.  

 The computer opponents in Power Chess 98 use many openings, but you're never told what they are; 
 instead, the game encourages you to master a single opening, the Giuoco Piano, but no matter how 
 much I scoured the documentation I could never find a single instance where the actual moves of 
 the opening were shown! Instead, you have to listen to the Queen's advice after a game with the 
 King - she constantly coaxes you into using it without ever saying what it is. It just doesn't 
 compare to the over 2200 opening lines included in CM 5500 - and a feature that automatically displays 
 the name of the opening being played by an opponent during a game. Last is Power Chess 98's multiplayer 
 feature. I'm extremely appreciative of the inclusion of support for Internet play and in the past 
 have lauded Sierra for including it in its games. But its importance in Power Chess 98 is blunted 
 because you'll only find a handful of players on Sierra's WON (World Opponent Network) as compared 
 with hundreds and sometimes thousands on The Chessmaster Network for CM 5500, which also features 
 its own rating system for Chessmaster Network players (you do have to pay a yearly fee to be rated 
 on the CM Network, however) .  

 What Sierra's achieved with Power Chess 98 is no mean feat, but in looking at all the stuff that's 
 just not here it seems that the quest to create a humanlike opponent came at the cost of some fundamental 
 features. If Sierra can up the ante in terms of tutorials, game analysis, and openings, the next 
 Power Chess will have the stuff to challenge Chessmaster 5500 for chess supremacy.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (1 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: excaliburblade
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 9, 2006 7:06 am PT
Review:  I've always enjoyed chess and this game will definately provide you with a challenge and feedback 
 as to how to improve your game. If you have ever wanted to play, learn or improve your chess game 
 then this is the game for you. Not only can a novice learn the game rather quickly, but intermediate 
 players can tweak their game and become even better. 
  The different A. I always allow for more indepth play which will hurt your head with some of the 
 strange moves they make. Either they will do a move you haven't seen or they will do a random pointless 
 move (depends on difficulty setting) . Lets just say the higher level difficulties make it suck 
 to be human. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
