-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Praetorians
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/praetorians/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 17, 2003
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.4
Critic Score: 7.8, 29 Review (s)
User Score: 8.4, 521 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Eidos Interactive
Developer: Pyro Studios
Genre: Historic Real-Time...
Date:     Mar 10, 2003 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Praetorians is an excellent choice for real-time strategy fans looking for a stiff and satisfying 
 challenge. 

  Some critics would say that real-time strategy games are formulaic; in most of these games, you 
 gather resources, build up a base, create an army of military units as quickly as possible, and 
 pummel your opponents before they can do the same to you. Over the years, developers have taken 
 steps to simplify base building and resource gathering so you can spend more time fighting exciting 
 battles. While it hasn't quite eliminated all aspects of building up an army, Praetorians does 
 manage to put the focus of its gameplay squarely on battlefield tactics. The game is set in the 
 glory years of the Roman Empire during Julius Caesar's time at the helm of the Roman army in Gaul. 
 Developed by Pyro Studios, known for the Commandos tactical strategy series, Praetorians features 
 plenty of strategic depth in its gameplay and is a great choice for real-time strategy fans who 
 are looking for an unusual alternative to conventional strategy games.           You can build 
 assault towers to scale walls.    

  Pyro has equipped Praetorians with a 3D graphics engine that produces attractive results, even 
 if it's somewhat limited. The maps include wooded regions of Europe, complete with areas of dense 
 forest, tall grasses, streams, and rivers, and elevated plateaus. You'll even trudge through deserts, 
 complete with dust storms. Flocks of birds and deer populate the battlefield, and you'll also see 
 weather effects like snow flurries and rain from time to time.   

  Unlike in most real-time strategy games, in Praetorians, you don't use or build individual units. 
 Combat soldiers are organized into troops of up to 30; the disciplined armies of the Romans march 
 in neat columns, while the more disorganized barbarians and Egyptians travel in unorganized groups. 
 Praetorians lets you easily combine, divide, and even out the number of soldiers you have in each 
 troop, so you can quickly fill out the numbers of a depleted battalion. If you look closely enough 
 at your troops, you can see some minor graphical issues, such as the way mounted cavalry sometimes 
 appear to be skating along the ground, but the unit animations do generally look impressive, especially 
 when you see hundreds of legionnaires marching perfectly in step. Unfortunately, Praetorians' audio 
 isn't quite as good; the in-game sound effects are adequate, but the between-mission cutscenes 
 have rather poor voice acting. Praetorians also has a rather limited orchestral soundtrack, but 
 at least it changes dynamically whenever you begin a battle.   

  Controlling all these units is easy, thanks to Praetorians' simple interface. You select your troops 
 by left-clicking on them, and you order them to move or attack by right-clicking on their destination, 
 and the game even shows you the formation they'll take when they get there. You can also click 
 and hold the right mouse button to set your troops' facing when they get to their destination (which 
 is actually an important consideration in Praetorians) . You can set nine control groups with your 
 number keys, and you can also cycle through commanders, scouts, controlled towns, and special units 
 using intuitively mapped function keys, though the game has an unfortunate tendency to place vulnerable 
 physician and commander units at the front of marching columns, instead of in the middle or at 
 the rear.   

  About the biggest problem with Praetorians' graphics engine when it comes to controlling your armies 
 is that it doesn't let you rotate the map. The game puts a great deal of emphasis on using terrain 
 features, such as elevation differences and dense foliage, for tactical advantage, so not being 
 able to rotate your view can be really inconvenient, especially when you're trying to see troops 
 behind a small ridge. You can't easily zoom in either -- Praetorians' camera lets you view the game 
 only from four preset zoom levels, though since you'll usually play the game from the furthest 
 zoom level, this isn't as much of an issue as the inability to rotate your view.   

  Praetorians lets you play as one of three civilizations: the Romans, the Egyptians, and the barbarians 
 (composed of German, Gallic, and Briton tribes) . All three of the civilizations feature commander 
 units. These commanders are used to occupy towns that you capture -- the slowly regenerating populations 
 of these towns are the game's only resource, which you draw upon to create new troops to add to 
 your army. Commanders also have an "aura" around themselves that enhances the offensive and defensive 
 capabilities of friendly units fighting nearby. This aura also lets commanders gain experience 
 from any enemy units their troops defeat. The accrued experience increases the bonus given by the 
 command aura. The game also has physician units, which can be brought onto the battlefield; they 
 have a small healing aura that allows units to slowly regenerate lost hit points, even during a 
 battle. The effects of a commander's and a physician's auras influencing troops during combat can 
 turn an even fight into an overwhelming victory for your troops.           Cavalry make short work 
 of unescorted siege machinery.    

  Each side has standard troop types for this time period: archers, pikemen, regular infantry, and 
 mounted cavalry, as well as a few special units to help differentiate them, such as the Romans' 
 legionnaires, who are extremely effective in melee combat, and the Egyptians' Nubian archers, who 
 have extremely long range. If you're a student of military tactics (or even if you're not) , you'll 
 find that Praetorians' battles are generally intuitive: Infantry are average in battle and move 
 slowly; pikemen are effective against cavalry; cavalry are swift and can flank enemy troops (especially 
 archers) ; while archers are good against anything, so long as they stay at range.   

  However, Praetorians' strategic depth goes well beyond simple unit-to-unit countermeasures. Many 
 of the units in the game have special abilities and formations that you can enable depending on 
 the situation. For example, pikemen can be put into a stationary position that lets them dig their 
 lances into the ground facing outward -- this is an extremely effective tactic for holding off both 
 infantry and cavalry charges. The legionnaires can go into a turtle formation, in which they use 
 their huge shields to create a wall and ceiling over themselves, making them useful decoys for 
 enemy archers.     

  Though Praetorians features only 10 units per civilization (not counting the five siege engine 
 types and two scout units shared by all three empires) , the special abilities of the different 
 units and the game's excellent use of terrain provide most of its strategic depth. As in most games, 
 elevation gives advantages in the ability to see farther and, in the case of ranged units, to shoot 
 farther, and it can also provide concealment from units who are approaching from lower elevations. 
           Archers can hide in forests and shoot while hidden.    

  Praetorians also makes use of forests and tall grassy areas. Units on the outside of a forest can't 
 see into it, and infantry can lie down in grassy areas to hide. Both types of terrain make great 
 places to set up an ambush or hide archers, although the grassy areas can be set ablaze by fire 
 arrows to root out a possible ambush. With all the possible ways to get blindsided by a hidden 
 enemy, you must make use of the special hawk and wolf scouts to safely explore higher ground and 
 thick foliage ahead of your army.  

  Since Praetorians has so many interesting tactical considerations, it's not an easy game to play, 
 even in single-player matches against computer-controlled opponents. In fact, you'll find that 
 computer-controlled opponents are quite good at exploiting holes in your defenses and formations. 
 And Pyro Studios has combined this strong AI with a lengthy, well-designed 24-mission campaign, 
 plus a skirmish mode for custom battles against one or more computer opponents on a large selection 
 of custom maps. Even on the standard difficulty level, Praetorians is very challenging, and the 
 AI tends to punish even small missteps in strategy, which makes successfully finishing each mission 
 a satisfying experience.  

  The campaign features a great array of mission types; the object isn't always to conquer every 
 town on the map. For instance, one challenging mission requires you to defend a fort from a siege 
 for 20 minutes. Fighting this battle with fire arrows against enemies with catapults and battering 
 rams, all while using your spearmen to knock away assault ladders may remind you of the climactic 
 battle scene from The Two Towers. In another mission, you'll race to the other side of the map 
 to relieve an allied fort under attack. You can choose to veer off the path to pick up more allies 
 to bring to the rescue, but you'll be taking the risk that the besieged fort will succumb if you 
 waste too much time. Interesting strategic choices like these are common in the campaign.      
      Archers automatically switch to fire arrows to try to set catapults and towers on fire.   

  Praetorians is also playable online or on a LAN with a variety of multiplayer maps designed for 
 two to eight players. However, you'll have to use a third-party application to find matches, and 
 at this point, you may find that most Praetorians players are Spanish (Pyro Studios is itself based 
 in Spain) . Hopefully more players from other countries will help round out the multiplayer experience 
 in the weeks to come.   

  Praetorians would have been an even better game were it not for flaws like its limited camera options 
 and its poor handling of multiplayer matchmaking, but thanks to its intelligent use of terrain 
 and the strategic depth provided by its units' special abilities, Praetorians is an excellent choice 
 for real-time strategy fans looking for a stiff and satisfying challenge. Resource management in 
 the game is as minimal as it gets, so you can stay focused on combat. The challenging and lengthy 
 single-player campaign and the tough AI will keep you busy for a long time, while custom skirmish 
 modes and multiplayer capability add to the game's value.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (14 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: onlineruler
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 3, 2008 10:52 am PT
Review:  Great rts that is different from other rts games.
  Unlike other rts like command and conquer you can't collect resources you must take over villages 
 and build units from it, you have limited numbers of people to make units from so you need to find 
 new villages, there is also no really base building, you need to build garrisons to take over villages 
 and you can also build towers.
  The missions are as difficult as the rest of the game there are a lot of missions, there are great 
 voice actors and nice cutscenes.
  And the game looks good to, and has a lot off music and great sound effects.
  There are 3 factions 
 each with different units and playstyles.
  The romans have the best strategies and their units cost les people but are weaker.
  The egyptians 
 have also got weaker units but they cost less people and they have got the best special abilities.
 
  The barbarians have got the best units but they take long to make and they cost a lot off people.
 
  There is Lan and Online play and an offline skirmish, the computer is incredibly difficult to 
 beat. And there are a lot off maps to play on.
  You can build garrisons, defensive towers, battle rams and catapults.
  The graphics are great 
 the beautifull landscapes and arrows that fly around are great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Geybrel
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 7, 2007 6:52 am PT
Review:  In my opinion PRAETORIANS is one of the best strategy games ever., because in other ones you have 
 to collect resources and more, but in PRAETORIANS you attack immediatly. well to say so so so so 
 so so so sos so so so so so so so so so so this the best real-time strategy ever until starcraft 
 2 comes to strategy games fans. With nothin more to say ciao. When writing your review, remember 
 to keep the language clean. Reviews must be 100 words minimum. We encourage you to try to get your 
 review right the first time  you may choose to edit it later on, but by doing so, you will lose 
 any positive feedback associated with the review. We encourage you to write your review in a word 
 processor or text editor, save it to your local disk, then copy and paste it into the posting box 
 below.
  Review Deck: 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedneckGamer87
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 10, 2007 4:37 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: The Spanish team, Pyro Studios, is best known for their work on the Commandos series. 
 In 2003 they created the game called Praetorians. The single-player campaign is divided into 20 
 missions and each of these missions can be played as a stand-alone mini campaign. They are largely 
 not connected, and, as I said, there are no protagonists to immerse the players deeper into the 
 single-player campaign. All we get to see are a few very general cut-scenes that depict various 
 battle scenes and that's about it! Besides lacking any kind of story, Praetorians is also missing 
 unit advancements, tech-tree or anything similar to it. Fair enough, you get two or three new units 
 along the way (Praetorians for one, German Cavalry, Balearic Slingers...) , and the enemy troops 
 (Egyptians, Gauls and Britons) provide for slightly more variety. Nevertheless, that's hardly enough 
 to satisfy players' desire for bigger and badder units as they progress through the single-player 
 campaign. Well you pretty much build up your base ans build up your army (which comes in groups) 
 and send them to destroy the enemy. Also there is a population limit which i dislike beacuse I 
 would like a larger army. There are also two other modes which you can play. Multiplayer to play 
 against other people online and Skirmish which you can just choose a random map to play against 
 the computer. To bad there are not ship battles in this game. What is great is the lack of resourse 
 management so that means you can consintrate more on building up your army.
  
  Graphics: I have to say that the graphics are really good in this game. They are rich in color 
 and detail and the enviroments are done well. Sound: The soundtrack is done really well, the sound 
 effects are done good and suit the game well. Also the voice covers are done well and so are the 
 sounds of things like the shooting of arrows and the clashing of swords sound the way they should 
 sound.
  
  Value: All in all this is a very enjoyable game to play. There is good replayability with this game 
 with it's multiplayer and random map mode. The downside of this game I found was it lacked unit 
 types and the population limit. All in all i would reconmmend this game.
  I give this game 9 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Huineng9
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 8, 2007 4:24 am PT
Review:  Praetorians is a 3D real-time strategy game developed by Pyro Studios, based on Julius Caesar's 
 campaigns.
  
  Players are given the option of a mission where they play as Julius Caesar commanding forces of 
 varying sizes against various barbarian tribes. Or a skirmish can be played in which the player 
 first chooses a difficultly level (easy, medium, hard or expert) then chooses up to 1 character 
 and up to 7 AI players, commanded by the computer. These can be Roman, Egyptian or an anonymous 
 barbarian tribe. Once this is completed it can then be chosen to create alliances by putting two 
 forces on the same team. This means that they can't attack each other and in times of crisis one 
 team member can call to another via a message line We need help whereupon the ally will normally 
 throw in spare troops to help their ally. Praetorians varies from other games of its genre in that 
 resources do not play a part in it. In most real time strategy games, wood, food, gold, stone and 
 glory need to be collected and is spent as troops are created. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CroCorwin
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 6, 2007 11:25 am PT
Review:  I said it all above, if you play strategy games just to see your workers gathering food or lumber 
 this is not a game for you. In this game the most important thing is strategy and that is it. The 
 only resource in the game is the amount of villagers in the village from which you draft your troops. 
 I gave the difficulty hard, because it takes some time to find out which type of unit is good against 
 which type, the advantage of higher ground, not to mass your troops in one big raiding party ( here 
 catapults rock! ) . Although the singleplayer is good, the multiplayer is the reason to buy this 
 game, since there is no better combatant that another human. And you will have a great smile when 
 your opponent makes a mistake, something the computer does not make. A definitive download if you 
 buy the game is the Imperial mod that adds a few new races to the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talon124
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 10, 2007 3:49 am PT
Review:  This is one of the coolest games out. You play as a commander of a Roman Legion which is very fun. 
 All the units are cool and unique with special moves such as nets for Gladiators or a phanlanx 
 type formation for spearmen. The campaign is pretty long, around 20missions, and very enjoyable. 
 Graphics aren't amazing but liveable. Download the Greek mod (adds new factions) and map packs 
 and this game will be amazing. THis is very different from other strategy games and u don; t want 
 to miss it. There is a big variety of units and u will have fun killing Gauls and Egyptians. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StOcKoHeArTs
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 1, 2006 12:22 pm PT
Review:  You can choose between Romans , barabains and eygptians. In a real time stragy. this review will 
 tell you about the gameplay the grahics the value and the sound...
  
  Gameplay : Quite furating gameplay hard to target an enemy.
  
  Graphics : Brilliant real time 
 graphics for the PC.
  
  Sound : Very good battle sound voices and SFX.
  
  Value : Campigns are hard and the strimishes are fun lats for a long time.
  
  Overall : If 
 you like real time stragyies this is for you good graphics , sound but the gameplay a bit furating 
 but still fun!
  
  ----------------------------------------------------------
  Sonic rivals out now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Database72
Rating: 7.9
Date: May 21, 2006 8:39 am PT
Review:  Ive played many strategy and real time strategy games in my day and I must say this is fun even 
 today. I bought this game a while ago and had fun with if for hours. But that is just me. In the 
 game you can play three factions the Romans, the Egyptians, and the barbarians. You can play these 
 in a skirmish type game play or you can play the campaign which guides you through romes many 
 struggles and sorties sent out to expand their region. Now mind you this is a game created a while 
 ago and graphics have advanced since then so bear with the graphics their not bad but they could 
 have been better for their time. Its still a very fun game if your into killing stuff. This is 
 a great game if your starting to grasp the concept of the standard rts game. One of the only things 
 I didn't like in the game is it's unavailability of a map creation program, which just leaves you 
 wanting more. As far as music goes in the game picure a nice sitting on the porch and listening 
 to queit peaceful music. But as the battle starts the music picks up the pace so it's nice that 
 it sets us in the mood. You can also play online, and this game has the option of having aliances 
 when playing a solo skirmish with the cpu as enemies, by pressing ctrl and a click you can tell 
 your cpu ally to send you troops. In my games i like to have some aid when allying with a cpu. But 
 that is just me
  
  Overall this game must cost about 30-20 bucks now and is well worth the price as this game has 
 alot to offer but is recommended to those who havent played current generations rts games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EwaAznLeader
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 15, 2006 10:42 am PT
Review:  Despite the fact that this was released about 4 years ago, this game still tops a few of the "newer" 
 releases due to it's very slick game style. The only thing you'll be producing in this game is 
 troops.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are a little shabby but is very nice due to when it was released. The fire 
 arrows are very fun to use. Buildings could be better but not bad. Units actually do look very 
 cool and nice.
  
  Sound: The sound is ok, but nothing compared to our current RTS games. Sometimes it would be hard 
 to hear things like unit conversations, even if you blasted your sound up. It's ok overall. Would 
 be nice to hear the crackle of the fire.
  
  Style: This game brought a new era of RTS games. One of the first games that were made like this. 
 You don't build different buildings to get different units like using barracks or a mobile factory. 
 Instead you have to get honor points in order to recruit higher units.
  
  Price and Value: Since it was made four years ago, it's only around 10$ now. It's very cheap and 
 it's a good bargain. If you like RTS games and greek and latin history. This would be pretty nice 
 to have for half a day's work.
  
  Final Word: This game is very fun and difficult but that's why it's a good game. I do admit that 
 it takes strategy and brains instead of sending everyone to attack and kill. Props to you, Praetorians. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChickenMcBastrd
Rating: 8.2
Date: Feb 27, 2006 6:50 pm PT
Review:  As featured on loadedinc. com...
  
  Slaughtering barbarian hordes, plundering the villages of your enemies, obliterating enemy fortifications 
 with catapults, those were the days. Pyro Studios, best known for its Commandos series of games 
 helps us return to the glory days of the Roman Empire with its latest RTS: Praetorians.
  
  Set during the rule of Julius Caesar around the year 58 B. C. The twenty-four mission campaign takes 
 players from the winter landscapes of Gaul to the barren, arid deserts of Arabia and back again. 
 The variety of objectives within the missions themselves makes them worthwhile and entertaining. 
 The generic build your army and destroy the enemy missions are only a small aspect of Praetorians. 
 Other missions will see you securing bridges, defending fortifications, and even in one mission 
 your objective is to simply, run! The missions are strung together through a rather loose storyline 
 that includes a caliber of voice acting which would make even Resident Evils original directors 
 weep. That aside, the intermittent CGI movies present in the campaign do have some redeeming qualities 
 to them.
  
  Mediocre and average are a few words that come to mind when describing the games sounds. The soundtrack 
 features a limited number of tracks that repeat over and over again. These are occasionally interrupted 
 with battle music that chimes in whenever units engage the enemy. While each side does have their 
 own unique sounds they can be categorized into one of three groupscommanding units, healing units, 
 and everything else. Cavalry will sound the same as archers, foot infantry, and everything else 
 in the game bar the physician and commanding unit. This does affect game play in large battles 
 where people may have to select units in a hurry. The last thing commanders want is to send a fresh 
 troop of auxiliary infantry into a horde of German cavalry. This is by no means a major flaw; though 
 it does detract some from an otherwise pleasant gaming experience.
  
  Praetorians graphics engine, while far from a graphical smorgasbord, does justice to the game. 
 The unit animations are crisp and clear, this is most evident when watching the Roman Legionnaires 
 march in perfect step. Structures, while not graphically awe inspiring, are rendered adequately 
 to suit the games needs. Landscapes within the game have their quirks as well. Tall fields of grass 
 will sway in the breeze; birds will flee the treetops at the slightest hint of a human presence. 
 When Romes legions have to march in particularly harsh conditions, players will see blizzards 
 of snowfall and swirling sandstorms over their armies. All these touches do a fine job of immersing 
 the player in an environment rich with life and activity.
  
  Game play and being user-friendly is where this title shines. Traditional resource gathering is 
 not present in Praetorians. There is no gold to collect, no wood to chop down, not even a single 
 piece of ore to harvest. The only necessity to training troops is to have control of a village. 
 Villages provide armies with populations from which armies can recruit into their ranks. Honor 
 points and unit control points do limit how many or which type of infantry can be bought however. 
 Unit control points dictate the maximum amount of infantry a commander can have on the map. This 
 is normally a map preset stuck at 500. Honor points are acquired in battle; the more enemies you 
 kill, the more honor points you acquire. There are a limited amount of structures and weapons that 
 can be built also. Using the basic infantry unit for each side, players can construct defense towers, 
 catapults, and assault towers to name a few. While there is no limit to the amount of structures 
 that can be built, building weapons like the catapult and ballista will require men to operate 
 them.
  
  The standard right-click interface is included in the game so normal RTS gamers are greeted with 
 an easy to understand interface that can be used to do almost everything with troops. Troops can 
 be arranged into both individual and multiple groups. There are convenient buttons and hotkeys 
 that will allow players to divide, balance, and join their respective groups of soldiers. This 
 is a feature that will be of immense use to people, including myself, who are picky about not having 
 straggler groups of soldiers with only one or two units.
  
  Infantry have multiple roles and abilities in Praetorians. Officer units and certain hero units 
 have an experience aura around them. This aura gives an offensive attack bonus to surrounding troops 
 of the same side. These units gain levels by being close to enemies that are killed. At lower levels 
 the extra offensive power may not be noticeable. Once the officer and hero units become highly 
 experienced however, nearby friendly units can devastate enemy ranks in seconds. Individual types 
 of units also have varying formations which they can execute. Roman spearmen and their German and 
 Arabian counterparts have a stationary formation that will massacre enemy cavalry. Also, it wouldnt 
 be proper to include Legionnaires in a game without having the infamous turtle formation which 
 renders archers practically useless.
  
  Praetorians makes good use of terrain features for combat. Cliffs around the map can be used to 
 increase archers range and line of sight. Forests litter the map in some missions and can be used 
 as cover for certain types of infantry. These forests make seemingly innocent trails into perfect 
 ambush points. When isolated cliffs are covered in a thick brush, archers can take refuge and wreak 
 havoc on enemy columns. Tall grass can be used for ambushes as well but at a cost. If enemy archers 
 are nearby and spot your army, they can launch fire tipped arrows that will incinerate the grass, 
 and your men.
  
  The game features three sides in the campaignthe Romans, the Germans, and the Arabs. The main 
 fault of this game is that all three sides feel exactly the same. Each side does have a few unique 
 units with different abilities but for the most part the armies are a carbon copy of one another. 
 There are subtle differences between some infantry types and cavalry such as range and hit points 
 but it doesnt differentiate the sides enough to consider all of them truly unique. This may be 
 advertised as balance but hardcore RTS players will not be fooled.
  
  Lets not beat around the bush, Praetorians is hard. Even experienced RTS gamers will find a few 
 challenges in the easy mode. I have forgotten the number of times I had to reload a mission because 
 one thing or another went wrong and led to the obliteration of my legions. It isnt the AI outsmarting 
 the players so much as it is sheer numbers. More than once I can recall simply being overrun when 
 my forces were spread too thin. More often than not the solution to this is to ignore your objectives 
 and hunker down, build defenses, and hold your position to blunt the enemy offensive.
  
  As stated before the AI isnt to be feared. The game will often throw physicians and other unarmed 
 or nearly unarmed units directly into the front line. If a group of soldiers comes under fire they 
 will sometimes leave the rest of the legions to engage whoever is firing at them. This normally 
 turns into a long and arduous journey which almost always leaves your rouge soldiers slaughtered 
 as they stumble into the entire enemy army. It is these type of situations that commands players 
 total attention to the battlefield and often lead to frustration. To give the AI some credit, it 
 does have its moments of brilliance. Computer controlled cavalry will frequently weave and dodge 
 within your ranks to attack your most vulnerable units.
  
  Online play is possible with Praetorians and is handled through any third party matchmaking software 
 that supports it. LAN play is also possible and both online and LAN can support up to eight players 
 depending on the map. The absence of a direct multiplayer interface within the game may turn some 
 gamers off but plenty of matches can be found on programs like Gamespy Arcade and All Seeing Eye 
 to name a few. Multiplayer basically boils down to building up units and conquering the enemy. 
 A bit repetitious yes, but players should get a decent amount of playing from this.
  
  Praetorians strays off the beaten path with the absence of a resource gathering method but this 
 frees players up to focus more on the melee combat that always ensues. Real Time Strategy veterans 
 will find that Praetorians offers a unique challenge compared to other games in the genre. Despite 
 its flaws, Praetorians is a solid product that will offer many hours of enjoyment.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lance_C
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 20, 2007 2:49 pm PT
Review:  Praetorians is a unique strategy game. You dont create an army with resources, but you have a 
 village with a certain amount of people, and you can recruit them. Thats how you build up your 
 army. Of course, there are several villages, which you can capture, so you can recruit more people. 
 And this is just the basic. In this game, the game is not focused on the certain amount of resources, 
 but on the army itself. And that is unique, since many strategy games are focused on food, wood, 
 et cetera.
  But that doesnt mean that the maps arent important, since your strategy is based on which map 
 you are in. The map can include forests, mountains, rivers and more, which you can use to your 
 advantage. Another realistic thing added in this game, are the weather effects, such as rain and 
 snow. You also have grassy areas, in which you can hide, but be careful: since archers can let 
 the grassy areas burn, with their fire arrows, so you have to choose your strategy careful.
  
  Your troops can have soldiers up to 30 men. The Romans are in an organized formation, while 
 the barbarians and Egyptians are in an unorganized formation. For the more advanced players, there 
 is even more strategy, like dividing your armies, or combining two armies into one.
  You can select an army by left clicking on a soldier, which will automatically select the whole 
 army. Some armies have their own strong points. Some can put up a stationary formation, which is 
 very effective against horses, such as equites, and some have poison in their arrows, which are 
 effective against fast units. You have many different units, from scouts, who play a big part in 
 the strategy, to gladiators, who can easily capture an army by throwing a net. Its very important 
 to use the map wisely, and to your advantage. Since trees and higher platforms can help you a lot. 
 The enemy units, will not see you, unless they are at the same height as your units are. And they 
 can only see you hiding in the forests, if they enter the forest, and if they are near your units. 
 So you can kill many enemy units, without losing many of your own. There is also a campaign, which 
 will help you learn the basics and how to achieve certain goals. Of course the campaign isnt only 
 basic training, theres also an interesting story behind it. You will be doing various things, 
 from capturing certain villages to defending or attacking fortresses. You cant just rush in, since 
 youll never be able to win the battle then. You have to choose your strategy carefully, because 
 thats the only key to victory. Even if youre outnumbered you can still win a fight, without losing 
 too many soldiers.
  
  What also makes this game very good is the AI. Theyre using strategy, just like real human players. 
 They could use a unit as a decoy, or shoot from forests or higher platforms. But the one thing 
 that completely changes the game is that you cannot flee from a fight, while fighting. If youre 
 battling with another army, you cannot retreat, unless you win or lose the fight, but luckily this 
 is only in direct combat. Another thing that makes the game great, is the music in the game; smooth, 
 instrumental music when youre marching and hard music when youre attacking or engaging an enemy. 
 Theres not much music in it, but it is quite good, since it fits in the game. Too bad, the dialogues 
 aren't flawless. It would be a nice addition if the strategy game contained mouth movements when 
 talking and emotions and gestures when e. g. shouting or giving a speech, but luckily it doesn't 
 really harm the gameplay or story. The graphics are reasonable; you can see the sharp edges of 
 the units when zoomed in, though it doesn't bother you much, since zooming in isn; t something you 
 do when fighting a battle or moving a unit from one place to another. What they did well was the 
 movement of e. g. the trees, which actually moved when a unit or two tries to take cover in the 
 woods. Birds come flying out, indicating that you have set foot into that particular area. Very 
 useful as an opponent tries to flee. The conclusion: A perfect strategy game, which can steal the 
 hearts out of many strategy gamers, and can be a challenge for all gamers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: differentiation
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 30, 2005 10:35 pm PT
Review:  As a history buff and fan of ancient Rome, I was delighted to see that they have made a game about 
 warfare back in those days. The whole ancient Rome theme didn't pick up until after the movie Gladiator. 
 The only movies before that was Spartacus and Ben-Hur. The AOE: Rise of Rome was a flop, and this 
 game was what we wanted. I was tired of playing games like Starcraft where you try to rush the 
 guy or get rushed so early in the game, you haven't even researched level 2 armor yet. What's the 
 point of having so many in depth options when no one even uses them? And units moving around like 
 they're lost, all scattered and undisciplined. Well, in this game you don't have to worry about 
 resources or rabble-like groups, because they are held in formations automatically. This move was 
 very welcome and the ability to command various Roman units was a first. You have to give this 
 game credit for what it accomplished. Of course, now there's RTW, arguably the best strategy game 
 out there, but you have to take into account that Praetorians was several years before RTW and 
 set the marks for which we love. The terrain and importance of formations and special units was 
 good. You can actually hide and ambush enemies this time, unlike the claims that Starcraft made 
 about hiding units under the shade of a tree, you had to be half-asleep not to see the unit hidden 
 there. The missions where you hold off or assault defenses are nicely included. In many ways this 
 is RTW on a smaller scale and without the strategic implications. Great game, would recommend this 
 highly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: master_blue
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 28, 2006 1:35 pm PT
Review:  Praetorians is a RTS game set in during Julius Caesars time (approx 60bc) , you play as the Romans 
 and have to fight various factions these being the barbarians to the north, the egyptians and people 
 in judea and eventually other Romans.
  
  The singleplayer campaign is nicely done, you hope from region to region fighting various peoples 
 and the missions are a little varied but usually its just kill the opposition which dont get me 
 wrong is extremely good fun but the best missions are definitely the difficult siege missions.
 
  For example on a level you control a small fort and have a limited number of troops you can recruit 
 and have to man the walls and destory the enemy armies as they repeatedly attack, you can even 
 oranise little sorties and send troops and calvary outside to attack and its spectacular fun seeing 
 your troops struggle to push back the assault ladders, seeing men fly of the walls after theyve 
 been struck by catapults and ballista, its very good fun and a memorable moment.
  
  The game itself is fantasy-esque, you have troops but then you have troops with special abilities, 
 centurions for the romans increase stamina regeneration and attack/defence of freindly troops, 
 egyptian priests can duplicate enemies with their mirrarge effect to make it look like there are 
 more in their army than there actuall is, with offering similar defence/attack bonuses, and the 
 barbarian chiefs offer a much MUCH higher attack bonus.
  Like these special units other units in each army have their own abilities aswell, the legionaries 
 of the Romans can form testudo formation to protect against missile weapons, priests heal people 
 automatically, german heavy cavaly can use their impale ability to destroy many soliders automatically 
 in a charge, the roman gladiators throw a net to immobilise a troop, barbarian heavy infantry throw 
 rocks and so on.
  Each troop is also better at certain things, heavy infantry are the main fighters, light infantry 
 are pretty bad fighters but can construct things like towers, siege weapons etc , archers are good 
 but have to be used properly otherwise their easy prey for quick light cavalry, heavy cavalry are 
 good for attacking infantry of all types and spearmen whilst not as tough as heavy infantry are 
 superb as defenders when deployed properly.
  
  The game offers alot of strategy and tactics as you can imagine from just detailing some of the 
 units, but the terrain also features quite heavily, archers on high ground can attack without fear 
 of immediate reprisals, they can even attack hidden from forests, you can have troops hidden to 
 ambush which is very important and works well for the barbarian troops who also have cavalry which 
 can ride in forests too offering a unique advantage. Also you can hide troops in long grass but 
 this can work against you, for you can select different types of attacks with some units, including 
 archers who can fire a volley of flaming arrows to burn whatever is hidden in the tall grass.
 
  
  Not only this but you need to take towns in order to keep training troops, each troop depending 
 on how good it is takes up a certain population from the village and takes varying times to create, 
 obviously the best troops like Praetorians take many population and alot of time, wereas light 
 infantry are produced quickly, but after a village's population has been used up it takes along 
 time to replinish so you have to be on the move to the next town quickly BUT you cant split up 
 your forces too much because you have a army limit so you have to think very carefully about your 
 strategy and use tactics wisely in the heat of battle, you could even use a scorch earth policy 
 and destroy towns you feel you cant hold by burning them to the ground with catapults, ballistas 
 or archers, but you'd also have to stop the enemy from repairing them if theyre not destroyed quickly 
 enough.
  
  Each side has its own strengths and weaknesses, the Romans have more troops on average per unit 
 than other races, have very good heavy infantry but weak cavalry, but they are also quite ponderous, 
 the barbarians have very small unit sizes but are quick and very powerful, they can overwhelm oponents 
 quickly in battle and the Egyptians have a emphasis placed on mobile archers such as parthians 
 who can fire whilst on the move making for a dangerous enemy in the long run but pretty weak at 
 the start, my favourite is offcourse the Romans with their balanced army with superb heavy infantry.
 
  
  Now that ive covered the gameplay ill look at the graphics, they are pretty good, better when the 
 game was released offcourse, units look pretty undetailed today but the terrain still looks very 
 good.
  
  The sounds are very good but like mos tother games the voice acting lets it down abit, the Romans 
 sound abit pompous, barbarians like pirates and egyptians sound strange, but the saving grace is 
 the music it is one of the best sound tracks in a computer game, definitely a good soundtrack which 
 changes pace to fit the action before falling back into the gentle pace when theres relative peace.
 
  
  Overall, Praetorians is a polished RTS with alot of strategy and tactics involved which includes 
 a nice skirmish mode but no random map generator, a decent singleplayer with superb moments such 
 as sieges and a good multiplayer component, definitely worth getting even now, but dont expect 
 it to be historically accurate, its just fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dacarr02
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 3, 2003 4:18 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the most satisfying single player games I have ever played, but nothing is perfect. 
 I did not like the way the game would limit unit production even if you had enough villages or 
 villagers. Otherwise, it was very engaging. I loved the scout units and the way different units 
 were limited by terrian. I also enjoyed outwitting the AI, which was fairly good (though I wait 
 for a really strong, adaptive AI) . My wife got decidedly jealous of my time with this one. I rarely 
 go multiplayer, so a game has to keep me occupied for a good long time in order for me to feel 
 it was worth the cost. This one sure was. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
