-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: President Forever
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/presidentforever/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 12, 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.9
Critic Score: 7.9, 7.0 Review (s)
User Score: 7.0, 65 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: 80soft
Developer: Eighty Dimensional
Genre: Virtual Life
Date:     Apr 29, 2004

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Political junkies looking for a new diversion now that the dust has settled between Bush and Kerry 
 should check out President Forever, a simulation where the polls never close. 

  Wondering how to occupy your time after the conclusion of one of the most hotly contested presidential 
 elections in decades? Political junkies looking for a new diversion should check out President 
 Forever, a simulation where the polls never close. Chances are that you'll never want them to, 
 either, because this election simulation from Eighty Dimensional Software is very good. All the 
 complexities of a grueling run for the presidency have been narrowed down to core themes, which 
 make the daunting task of claiming the Oval Office addictive and playable while not sacrificing 
 realism.  

          Focusing solely on the final seven weeks of the campaign adds intensity and makes each 
 decision a nailbiter.     

  President Forever hangs its hat on a turn-based re-creation of the 2004 election, although the 
 historically minded can choose from scenarios set in 1992, 1980, and 1960. Presidential wannabes 
 John Kerry, Bill Clinton, Jimmy Carter, Ronald Reagan, Richard Nixon, Jack Kennedy, and, of course, 
 Bush 41 and Bush 43 are included, along with a selection of 2004 also-rans like Colin Powell for 
 the GOP and the likes of Howard Dean and Al Sharpton for the Democrats. Each comes with personal 
 attributes like leadership and stamina that affect both their actions and how the voters view them. 
 Additionally, the game is so customizable that dozens of historical and fantasy scenarios and candidates 
 have been posted by modders at the game's official Web site. Online offerings range from pitting 
 Lincoln against McLellan in 1864 to staging the first national election of the recently united 
 US and Canada in 2008. There is something available for pretty much everyone.  

  No matter what scenario you select, each campaign begins when things really start to heat up in 
 mid-September. Every decision is crucial, as people are going to the polls in under seven weeks. 
 But even though the campaign schedule is shortened, long-term strategy is key. Polling numbers 
 come out just once per week, meaning that you can't skew numbers and turn states simply by stepping 
 off a plane and kissing a few babies. The idea is to set plans in motions that will show up in 
 polling results down the road, and then to keep the numbers going up so that you build momentum. 

  A number of areas are critical to boosting voter support. First and foremost is your platform, 
 which must establish your beliefs on 18 core issues. These change depending on the election in 
 question -- in 2004, for instance, the issues are military invention and terrorism, while in 1992 
 the hot-button topics are AIDS and Bosnia and Somalia -- but you always set a stance that ranges 
 from left to right. As in the real world, positions will win voters in some states and lose voters 
 in others. Sticking near the center is almost a necessity to ensure good nationwide support, although 
 you can't stray too far from the default settings because the opposition can attack you for inconsistency. 
 In our first election with John Kerry, we moved him to the middle on abortion and free trade and 
 were immediately greeted with Dubya spinning that into an attack for flip-flopping.  

          Momentum swings back and forth throughout every campaign and is very difficult to sustain, 
 so you can't get too excited over even wildly positive headlines like this one.     

  Of course, it isn't enough to just set a platform that people like. You need to visit each state 
 to barnstorm, give policy speeches, and raise funds. Momentum-boosting endorsements can be earned 
 from special interest groups. Foot soldiers and name crusaders (such as potential first ladies) 
 can be recruited to help get your message out. Ad campaigns must be set up and launched, which 
 takes time (five days are needed to maximize production values and to increase the chances by 50 
 percent of the ad becoming highly successful) and money (it costs $250,000 to produce a top ad 
 in 2004) . Also, limited funds means that you can only afford to launch ads in states where they 
 can make a difference. Get greedy and you'll either go bankrupt or you'll fail to focus enough 
 on battleground states. Finally, you can indulge in dirty tricks. News stories can be spun for 
 both damage control and to turn the heat up on an opponent. And you can dig up scandals on opponents 
 or hire spies to infiltrate an enemy's headquarters.  

  Everything is balanced in a subtle, elegant way through the use of energy and command points. Your 
 starting pool of 100 energy points diminishes by giving speeches, holding fundraisers, and the 
 like, and it doesn't fully replenish itself every turn (you get back a specific amount based on 
 your stamina rating when you rest for a turn) . You have to pace yourself over the long haul, as 
 getting tired can lead to embarrassing gaffes during speeches and meet and greets. We ran Bill 
 Clinton ragged during one 1992 campaign and pretty much lost the election in the final week by 
 making mistakes when talking about social security in Florida.     

  Command points are more immediate, since they regenerate every turn, but they are far less numerous 
 and even more critical to properly use. Making a policy speech, for instance, eats up a whopping 
 four of the usual five command points, and holding a fundraiser consumes three, so you have to 
 make every personal appearance count. Spinning news stories your way costs one command point for 
 every 20 percent of spin as well, meaning that you can burn entire turns in damage control if a 
 scandal breaks, or in building a positive story like a big debate victory. Recruiting foot soldiers 
 and crusaders also takes a toll on command points, although the price is measured out over a number 
 of turns depending on your momentum in the state in question.  

          Want to get the lowdown on JFK's dirty laundry? Infiltrate some spies into the Democratic 
 campaign headquarters.     

  The bottom line is that you never have enough command points to do everything that you want to 
 do. There are always a dozen or more ways to spend the command points every turn. In one game where 
 we were playing Jimmy Carter in a down-to-the-wire election with Ronald Reagan, a late-game turn 
 presented us with so many sensible options that we took 10 minutes to decide on a course of action. 
 We could spin a Reagan scandal, hold a fundraiser to build enough cash to extend the integrity 
 of our ad campaign into Wisconsin, give a policy speech on social security to hopefully firm our 
 numbers in Florida, barnstorm New York, or try to pull the military funding endorsement away from 
 Reagan. All these choices were out there and were viable, yet we had just five command points to 
 spend. Almost every decision in the game is fraught with tension, in that you never know whether 
 you made the right or wrong move until the polls close on election night. Replay value is tremendous 
 because there are so many legitimate paths to election day.  

  Certain results are, however, almost set in stone. Some states, for instance, are nearly impossible 
 to win because of a high percentage of decided voters when the campaign begins. For example, Nixon 
 was unable to take New York in over a dozen replays of the 1960 campaign. Constantly barnstorming 
 the state, giving policy speeches, and recruiting loads of foot soldiers kept things almost even, 
 but the numbers always plummeted as soon as we left to shore up positions elsewhere. While this 
 makes perfect sense -- Kennedy took the perpetually blue New York by over 5 percent in the real 1960 
 election, and of course some US regions are so solidly blue or red that you'd have to move heaven 
 and earth to switch their voting patterns -- realism only goes so far. Regionalism can be turned 
 off, but that just makes the entire US homogenous and causes issues to be viewed the same way in 
 San Francisco as they are in Sheboygan.  

  Another slight problem is the interface. The main map screen and menus are pretty dry. Buttons 
 are smaller than they should be, as are text and numbers, and it takes a couple of campaigns to 
 figure out where everything is. Feedback is too sparse. We're still not quite sure how endorsements 
 work, and there aren't enough details provided into how research works. Some issues could use more 
 personalization, as well. Seeing "BUSH SCANDAL" trumpeted on the front pages is always gratifying 
 for the Kerry camp, but it would be more interesting if we got to learn the specifics behind the 
 media ruckus.  

          Just like real life, replays of the 2004 election are almost always extremely close.   
   

  Information isn't presented as well as it should be, and the system presenting nationwide and state 
 numbers in the upper right box of the main menu isn't user-friendly. There also aren't enough statistical 
 breakdowns that give you advice on how to focus your campaign. You can't just click on Oregon, 
 for instance, look at tracking numbers, and decide on whether or not your ecology policy speech 
 would go over well there, because there aren't any such tracking numbers. All you can do is keep 
 a close watch on the daily recaps and look at how your platform issues are playing in different 
 states.  

  Even with these flaws, all of the above -- combined with an appealing $12 price tag to download the 
 full version of the game from the 80soft Web site (the game can only be purchased online) -- makes 
 President Forever a winning choice no matter which political party you support. It's an ideal option 
 to keep people inside and outside of the Washington Beltway now that the 2004 election is history. 
     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (2 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Star_Wars117
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jul 16, 2007 10:41 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: Make ads and movies to destory the other canadits campaigns and reputations. Go from 
 state to state and doing speches and random stuff to win the election!
  
  Graphics: I really cant say much about them becasue all it is a map of the united states saying 
 if you are winning our losing your campaign in that state.
  
  Sound: There is no sound in this game :P
  
  Value: The game is like 20 bucks but you can download 
 a demo.. somewhere
  
  The Good: Fun gameplay
  
  The Bad: The very very very very hard gameplay and no sounds what so ever in the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tOrchie
Rating: 7.8
Date: Apr 30, 2006 3:02 pm PT
Review:  President Forever will not be remembered decades from now as an amazing benchmark in gaming history. 
 However, for the price, it manages to come off as a very entertaining experience.
  
  The game does a pretty good job of covering most of the important aspects of a presidential campaign, 
 from barnstorming and speeches, to debates and advertising, to lots and lots of mudslinging and 
 spin-meistering. One of the nice things about it is that each presidential campaign can be finished 
 in less than an hour, so there's no major commitment, and things stay fairly fresh.
  
  The graphics are very basic, but they get the job done. For a game of this naturel, if you're at 
 all interested, you're not looking for amazing 3-D FPS style action anyway.
  
  The sounds are also very minimal, and a little odd on occasion. Actually, for most of the game, 
 there is almost no sound. But it's no big deal, because this is a game that is played in a window, 
 so you can have lots of other stuff going on at the same time. I myself will oftentimes play while 
 surfing the net.
  
  As I said, President Forever isn't the last word on political gaming, but it's a lot of fun, and 
 it's an inexpensive way to play out a myriad of different political scenarios while waiting for 
 the 2008 election to roll around. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
