-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Prey
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/prey/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Great-looking graphics.
 Occasional flashes of really interesting gameplay ideas.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Lacks any challenge.
 Aliens speak English and sound dumb doing so.
 Action is overly straightforward.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jul 10, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.5
Critic Score: 8.4, 53 Review (s)
User Score: 8.2, 4,566 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: 2K Games
Developer: Human Head Studios
Genre: Sci-Fi First-Person...
Date:     Jul 11, 2006 &raquo;  
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Prey is an easy ride through an alien world that doesn't cash in on all its potential but still 
 offers enough thrills to make it a worthwhile trip. 

  A couple of years ago, you probably would have been branded as a lunatic if you had said that we'd 
 ever get to play Prey. Many of the game's ideas were originally hatched a decade ago. The game 
 was even shown off to press in 1997. But in 1998, Prey was canned so that the development team 
 could move on to other projects, and it was assumed lost. It resurfaced last year with a new developer 
 and new technology thanks to the engine that powered both Doom 3 and Quake 4. The end result is 
 a pretty standard first-person shooter that offers up largely the same sorts of thrills you've 
 probably come to expect from this style of game, in spite of some superficially novel twists.  
 

          Tommy and everything he cares about get sucked up into space.     

  Prey opens with the main character yelling at himself in a bathroom mirror. Tommy, a Cherokee Indian, 
 doesn't really care about his heritage and wants to take his girlfriend, Jen, and leave the reservation. 
 But before he can muster up the courage to convince her to leave (and just after he bashes in the 
 skulls of a couple of morons causing trouble in her bar) , an alien invasion sucks Tommy, his grandfather, 
 and Jen up into some sort of spacecraft. With the help of some unknown benefactors, Tommy manages 
 to get free and you set out on your quest to rescue your girlfriend and, of course, save Earth 
 in the process. There are a few plot twists here and there, but some of those twists feel like 
 they've been lifted directly from other games.  

  The two things that seem meant to separate Prey from its brethren are the game's liberal use of 
 portals that bring you from place to place and a bag of gravity tricks that are meant to keep you 
 wondering which way is up. The portals are open and let you see and fire weapons through to the 
 other side. They lend themselves to a couple of neat tricks, including one where you see yourself 
 entering a portal on the other side of the portal. Just try to resist the urge to shoot yourself 
 in the back of the head. The portals are a neat idea, and their potential is revealed early on 
 when you walk through one that shrinks you down and puts you inside a small glass case with a sphere 
 inside. But for the rest of the game, the portals might as well be doors, because the linear level 
 design rarely leaves you wondering if the portal that just appeared in front of you is indeed the 
 right way to go.  

  Playing around with gravity is a much more interesting part of Prey. You'll encounter powered walkways 
 that let you walk up walls and onto ceilings. Also, some portals will drop you into a room you've 
 already been in, but you'll be walking on what you previously thought was a wall. And in a few 
 other cases, you'll be able to shoot objects to change gravity, which forces your view to rotate 
 as you fall to another surface. These segments of the game serve as the majority of its puzzles, 
 but they aren't difficult to figure out.  

  The straightforward level design means that you'll spend the bulk of your time in combat. The game 
 throws enemies at you pretty consistently, though their numbers are never overwhelming. And since 
 the crazy aliens invented this portal business in the first place, they can teleport in rather 
 than run around trying to find you. However, unlike the imps in Doom 3, Prey's hunters don't consistently 
 teleport in behind you and attempt to catch you off guard. That said, the game's artificial intelligence 
 isn't particularly advanced. The hunters, armed with the same machine gun/sniper rifle combo that 
 serves as your first real weapon, will occasionally take cover or toss a grenade in your direction 
 if you're not in their line of sight, and they'll pick you off at a distance if you stand still 
 in the open. But the rest of the enemies, a somewhat small menagerie of alien beasts and the occasional 
 flying robot, stay out in the open and either rush right at you for a melee attack or attempt to 
 circle around you and fire weapons, if they're armed. None of the enemies are difficult to deal 
 with.  

  You are, of course, always armed. While you've got a pipe wrench at your disposal for melee attacks, 
 it's useful only for the first couple of minutes. Then you take out your first hunter and get a 
 rifle that fires like a machine gun but also has a scope that can be used for a more powerful sniper 
 shot. All of the weapons are of alien origin, so many of them look kind of goofy and keep up the 
 organic-merged-with-metal motif that the rest of the game is going for. For example, rather than 
 having hand grenades, you pick up tiny crawling creatures that explode when you rip off one of 
 their legs and toss them at an enemy. If you flip them over with the alternate fire button, you 
 can plant them as mines or use them as Halo-like sticky grenades. You'll also get a rapid-fire 
 nailgun-like weapon that works as a grenade launcher, an acid gun, and a rocket launcher that also 
 fires a misty cloud that blocks weapon fire. Unfortunately, the mist also blocks your shots, which 
 makes its use limited. You'll also get the leech gun. No, it doesn't fire leeches that bore into 
 your enemies' flesh -- that'd just be gross. Instead, you can leech power out of specific power terminals 
 to charge your gun with energy. There are multiple energy types, so you might get hot-plasma shots, 
 a freeze ray, a powerful burst of electricity, or, near the end of the game, a constant stream 
 of energy that works roughly like Quake's lightning gun. While there are multiple weapons of varying 
 power in the game, their alien look doesn't fit with their mostly conventional usage. On top of 
 that, most of the game's enemies aren't tough enough to warrant that type of firepower. You could 
 very easily cruise through the majority of the game using only the default rifle, since it has 
 a recharging ammo supply.  

          The game's weapons are weird looking, but they act like standard first-person shooter firepower. 
     

  Because Tommy's a mystical Cherokee warrior, he eventually gains another ability, even if he doesn't 
 believe in mysticism. Early on in the game, you, as Tommy, gain the ability to leave your body 
 and "spirit walk." In spirit form, you're armed with a bow that can be used to kill many enemies 
 in one shot, but the real benefit of spirit walking is puzzle-oriented. To put it simply, you can 
 walk through force fields when in spirit form. So anytime you see a force field, just punch the 
 spirit walk button and walk on through. You can collect ammo and interact with switches and touch 
 screens while in spirit form, so you'll usually use this form to turn off force fields, electric 
 eyes, and other objects that get in your way. Some paths and walkways appear (and function) only 
 when you're in spirit walk mode, so there will be some gaps that you can cross when you're outside 
 of your body. Much like the game's other unique mechanics, it's an interesting idea that doesn't 
 feel like it was fully explored for the purposes of the game.     

  Gaining the spirit walk power has one other benefit: When you die, you'll be sent directly to the 
 spirit realm instead of to a game-over screen. This is essentially a basic minigame where you must 
 fire the spirit bow at red and blue wraiths to recharge your health and spirit energy, respectively. 
 After doing that for 15 to 20 seconds, you're sent back into the world of the living, right where 
 you left off. This makes death trivial and removes any remaining difficulty you might encounter. 
 In some ways, this method seems designed to remove the desire to constantly use quick saves and 
 quick loads to inch through the game's 8- to 12-hour single-player campaign. Considering that the 
 Xbox 360 version doesn't have any quick-save functionality, this process means that you can play 
 through the game and manually save only when you decide to stop playing, because under normal circumstances, 
 you'll never lose any progress -- though it should be mentioned that both versions of Prey locked 
 up a couple of times during play, which did, in fact, cause us to lose some progress. But since 
 both versions autosave at the beginning of each level and the PC version auto-saves at checkpoints 
 within the level, even this rare issue isn't enough to send you screaming for the save screen. 
 One nice benefit of the game's death system is that the game only stops to load between levels. 
 But it's only nice because many of the load times are close to a minute long.  

          The game's puzzles aren't very tough, so making constant progress shouldn't be much of 
 a problem.     

  A harder difficulty setting unlocks after you complete the main single-player game. It's sort of 
 a shame that this isn't available right from the start, since it makes the combat a little more 
 challenging. But since you can still do the death walk and refrain from losing progress when dying, 
 the game is not worth playing through a second time, unless you're specifically trying to earn 
 the Xbox 360 achievement you get for doing so. Speaking of achievements, Prey's are quite easy. 
 You'll earn most of them by simply completing the single-player game. The multiplayer achievements 
 include getting 25 kills with each of the game's weapons, scoring first place in a ranked match, 
 playing in 10 ranked matches, and totaling up a number of kills in the game's two multiplayer modes. 
 On top of that, there are three secret achievements, all of which are tied in to doing well at 
 three video gambling machines that you run into at the very beginning of the game.  

  Both versions of Prey support multiplayer for up to eight players in two modes: deathmatch and 
 team deathmatch. The maps are designed well enough, and they make better use of portals and gravity 
 than the single-player game does, but ultimately, the weapons aren't much fun to fire and the limited 
 number of modes makes the multiplayer feel like an afterthought. Deathmatch and team deathmatch 
 have been done better elsewhere. Also, it's worth noting that the Xbox 360 version can only be 
 played via system link or Xbox Live. There's no option for split-screen play.  

  The split between the Xbox 360 version and the PC version is fairly typical. The Xbox 360 version 
 looks great and usually maintains a smooth frame rate, though it bogs down in a couple of specific 
 spots. The PC version maintains its smooth frame rate throughout, provided you have a machine strong 
 enough to handle it, and at higher resolutions it certainly looks better than its console counterpart. 
 The Xbox 360 version benefits from the achievement points system, but it also carries a $59 price 
 tag as opposed to the PC's $49 price. Both platforms also offer a limited-edition version that 
 jacks up the price an additional 10 bucks and gets you two pewter figurines and an art book, which 
 doesn't seem like a good value unless you have an interest in pewter figurines.  

  One of the selling points of Doom 3 and, later, Quake 4 was the strength of their visuals. The 
 Doom 3 engine is also being used to power Prey, and the game maintains that standard of quality. 
 The engine is capable of some interesting feats, but these feats are used only in limited circumstances. 
 There are a few spots where you'll be in very large, open areas that give you an interesting sense 
 of scale, but the majority of the game is a corridor crawl. There are a couple of cases where you'll 
 see objects and even entire rooms being built right before your eyes, which looks cool, but you 
 can count the number of times it happens on one hand. So while the majority of the effects are 
 pretty understated, the game does get by on decent artistic design. Sure, it's mining the same 
  territory that's been drawn from time and time again (in 
 fact, it was done better by the last Doom 3 engine game, Quake 4) , but the environments are visually 
 interesting.  

          Spirit walking is an interesting idea, but you usually only use it to get through force 
 fields and hit switches.     

  The weapons sound appropriate but lack punch. The game's soundtrack is also fine, though it rarely 
 stands out. Strangely enough, the game's designers went out and licensed a whole bunch of real-world 
 music for the jukebox in the bar that opens the game. You can click around and listen to great 
 songs like "Barracuda" from Heart or Judas Priest's "You've Got Another Thing Comin'," but aside 
 from a chance encounter later in the single-player and in some of the multiplayer, you never encounter 
 these songs again. It seems like a waste. The game has plenty of voice work in it, and most of 
 it's just fine. After you gain the ability to spirit walk, you can also understand the alien hunters, 
 as they essentially start to speak English. While this gives you some tactical advantage -- namely, 
 you know when they're going to throw a grenade because they call it out -- they sound dumb, and it 
 lessens their impact as fearsome, unreasonable alien invaders.  

  Prey's campaign won't take too long, and it's rarely difficult, which makes it a solid choice if 
 you're looking for an easy weekend romp. But much of the game's potential for unique thrills feels 
 wasted by its straightforward level design, and the multiplayer doesn't add much to the package. 
 Fans of the genre have probably played games better than Prey in the past, but the action and the 
 environments you move through are interesting enough to make playing through the game worthwhile. 
     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (341 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: -Dark_Palladin-
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 2, 2009 5:35 pm PT
Review:  Good and Bad:
  ---
  +Innovative use of the Doom 3 engine.
  +New portal technolegly revoulutionizes FPS games.
  +Tommy is a very likeable character.
  +Very 
 unique and differenct set of weapons.
  +Long Single Player.
  +Multiplayer is just as crazed up as Single Player.
  +Level Editor is a huge improvment from 
 Doom 3's editor.
  +Human-for-protein story is amusing.
  +Enchanced Doom 3 graphics.
  +Includes Particle and GUI editor and every good thing Doom 3 had.
  
  -Voice acting gets really 
 cheesy at times.
  -Alot of mushy romance.
  -Textures glitch in some Bevals, Cones, and Spheres brushes.
  -Framerate gets horrible at times.
 
  -Copies partially off from Doom 3 and Quake 4.
  -Not many weapons to choose from.
  -Level editor glitches and crashes often.
  -In-game content gets fully explored easily.
  
 
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  
  How many PC shooters have left you more or less speechless because they are so awesome? Prey is 
 one of the few games that leave you in this state. Taking the Doom 3 engine, Prey revoulutionizes 
 shooters with its new Portal Technolegy, Gravity changes, upside-down flips, and just about anything 
 you can think of without making your head bleed. Instead, the likeable main character will suffer 
 portal technolegy and gravity twists for you.
  
  
  That man is Tommy, a native Cherokee garage mechanic who's luck has completly drained out. Unlike 
 his girlfriend and grandfather, Tommy's indian heritage is definetly not on his best interrest 
 and wants to take his girlfirend, Jen, out of the reservation. However, before he can really get 
 his nerves together to tell her anything, Tommy, Jen, Tommy's grandfather, and a good chunk of 
 Jen's bar gets sucked up into space by some strange, alien spaceship. When Tommy wakes up from 
 the abduction, him, as well as countless of other abducted humans are stapped on a suspended assembly 
 ride for human processing. But before Tommy is processed into tasty food for the aliens, an unknown, 
 yet bold survivor of the hider clan manages to rescue Tommy. The machine malfunctions, Tommy falls 
 into a slimy pit, and from there, he must pull himself out of the muck and make his way to the 
 top of "The Sphere", through the alien world in an attempt to rescue his girlfriend and unintentionally 
 save the earth in the process. Now, on paper, that sounds like a totally dumb and actrocious attempt 
 for an amusing storyline, but you'll be amazed at how well Prey presents it. A garage mechanic 
 with a personality is definetly alot more interresting than a indentityless doom marine, but unlike 
 Doom 3 or Quake 4, Prey features alot of mushy romance that was thrown in at the last minute (or 
 so it seemed) . Since Tommy is actually trying to save his girlfriend rather than earth throughout 
 the entire game, it gets pretty yucky. Still, its nothing to changes the quality of the main characters.
 
  
  
  In the game, Tommy witnesses some really freaky alien technolegy. He meets with portals, upside 
 down gravity, and planetoids. Walking through a glow portal that clearly lined up with a blank 
 wall with have you actually teleporting to a different room in actual realtime. Hitting different 
 switches or walking on certain textures allows gravity to be changed up or down, letting you walk 
 on what you thought used to be walls or ceilings. Prey continusly strains your brain with this 
 kind of technolegy via numerous puzzles more than action. Although Prey has tons of shooting in 
 it, it feels more based around puzzle solving at times. Tommy refers to mythisim as "Cherokee Bullcrap", 
 but its not until later on in the game where he realizes that his indian abilities prove as an 
 advantage againest the enemy. He gains a skill called Spirit walk, which allows him to leave his 
 body and walk through certain areas he could not reach with his normal form. So whenever you find 
 a forcefeild or special bridge or something you can't get to with your body, you hit the Spirit 
 Mode button, waltz through the barrier and hit some switch on the other side to reveal alternitive 
 route. There's also a DeathWalk feature. When you die, you don't get a game over screen. Instead, 
 you get sent to a mystical deathrealam. Here you play a minigame where you have to shoot as many 
 of strange flying spirit creatures to rack up as much health and spirit power as possible before 
 time runs out and you're revived. You can't really die in Prey, so this ensures that the awesome 
 action of Prey never, ever stops.
  
  Its totally new for shooters what Prey's puzzles have to offer. The graphics are neatly textured, 
 but when it comes to spheres and cones, the textures look sketched up and almost look like poorly 
 coated cake iceing. The framrate also gets downright horrible at some points. With all that gravity 
 changing and portals everywhere, the framerate rarely drops down tremedously, and give the fact 
 that the enemy AI like to dodge back and forth alot, it sometimes makes them impossible to kill.
 
  
  
  
  The aliens look no more or less like minature verisons of Halo's brutes. They occasionally have 
 some robotic technolegly, but usually, its all organic you're fighting. In fact, some of the enemies 
 feel copied off of Doom 3 and Quake 4. In a particular scene, a giant alien, looking like a cyberdemon, 
 spawns from what looks like a giant hellportal, like Doom 3. Other times, some of the aliens, and 
 humans look like Quake 4's stroggified victims, with cybernetic bodies. Like the Strogg from Quake 
 4, the aliens process the humans for their organic stroyet or additional warriors. Still, Prey 
 features alot of its own ideas. It has about 10 different organ-fused-with-metal weapons in the 
 game. You get the inital pipewrench, since Tommy is a mechanic. Its fun to use, although its not 
 very powerful. The rest of the guns look pretty goofy, but work perfectly normal like any other 
 shooter. A rifle, which looks like a bug-infested hand-held piston fires just like a machine gun. 
 An acid gun is included that shoots a large cluster of acid, like a shotgun. Small crawler bugs 
 portray as hand grenades that explode when you rip their legs off. The list include a few more, 
 but there still aren't many to choose from..... and the pipewrench is still the most fun to use.
 
  
  
  
  The sound is so and so for Prey. Like Duke Nukem, 3D Realms made it so the main character talks 
 alot and has alot of personality, which makes him very likeable. Tommy usually makes gestures like 
 "What the F**k" or "What the hell is that thing!?" whenever he encounters something new in the 
 alien world. There's also alot of comedy coming from all the characters, but most of the time, 
 Tommy's voice actor doesn't sound at all like the real Tommy would sound like. Sometimes he sounds 
 like a congested collage student. The music consisted of some licensed real-world songs, like Barracuda 
 or Catscratchfever that you can hear in the bar's jukebox, but most of it sounds alot like a remake 
 of Star Wars. The weapons sound like the ironic punch from Quake 2; the autocannon hicups to make 
 it sound funny and powerful, and the acid gun also has a good metal-organic merge sound with it. 
 But like I stated before... the pipewrench is always the most fun to use.
  
  
  
  
  Like most PC shooters, the PC verison of Prey comes with a built-in level editor for designing 
 your own custom maps. It also includes all the good things Doom 3 had; Prey includes a GUI editor, 
 Particle editor, Sound editor, and even shares the same consle. The editor works pratcially identical, 
 except it has plenty of more entities, and crashes less often. And given the fact that you have 
 plenty of toys, like Portals and Gravities at your disposal, you will probably enjoy editing the 
 Prey's engine continusly.
  
  
  Prey also features an online Multiplayer mode. It has the same, wacky portals, the same wacky enviroments, 
 and everything else in the Single Player. It supports about 16 players, Internet or Lan, but absoulutly 
 nobody plays it online. Overall, if you want it at a supershot, Prey is a revoulution, my friend. 
 Prey is definetly along the lines when you think about the best shooter you've ever played. If 
 you are a level designer, you will love Prey. That's most because after a few weeks of play, you 
 will probably have seen everything the game has to offer. Still, even if you aren't, you should 
 be playing it right now. Its as good as FPS games get. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nemo_85
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 21, 2009 8:41 am PT
Review:  The good:
  -Great graphics on high end machine
  -Creative weapon design
  -Extremely creative level design
  -Surprisingly good storyline overall
  -Effective use of puzzles
 
  
  The bad:
  -Somewhat predictable plot developments
  -Character interactions seem a little dry
  -Enemy behavior becomes predictable
  
  I will 
 admit that when I purchased Prey, I did so mostly because I knew it used the Doom 3 engine, and 
 I wanted a FPS that looked good. In other words, I purchased it for eye candy. Perhaps as a result 
 of this, I was quite surprised by the overall quality of the game on aspects that diverge significantly 
 from good graphics. 
  
  The story started out by making me feel like I was in a really old first-encounter movie. However, 
 as the game progressed, I began to realize that I was experiencing something unique. Perhaps this 
 is because Prey had been in development for a long time, but the point is that the game has an 
 unexpected level of depth that seems to deepen as you progress. The depth is not of RPG stock, 
 and comparing to an RPG would be like comparing apples to oranges. However, compared to many FPS 
 games out there, Prey made an impression upon me. 
  
  For the most part, Prey operates similar to other shooters. You start out as a dude with a melee 
 weapon and begin to acquire new weapons in hostile territory. You shoot your way through the bad 
 guys and you frequently get updates on plot. Fairly standard. 
  
  However, Prey makes incredible use of puzzles in conjunction with level design. The levels are 
 quite expansive and the game incorporates portals, which make the levels somewhat unpredictable. 
 Moreover, many areas of the game toy with the idea of gravity not necessarily being in a downward 
 direction. In most cases, the player can control or manipulate the world to rotate or alter the 
 direction of gravity. This was disorienting at first, but became simply fun after some getting 
 used to. 
  
  Prey also approaches puzzles with the use of spirits, or more specifically, the player's spirit. 
 This spirit can detach from the body of the player and solve puzzles on a level rarely seen in 
 FPS games. Surprisingly, this too was enjoyable and effective without becoming tedious. 
  
  The overall storyline was quite good, even though it starts out in a been-there-done-that kind 
 of way. However, some points in the game leave you wondering, "I wonder if this is going to happen" 
 and then shortly thereafter it does. So, certain elements of the story are predictable but the 
 overall story and especially the end were a surprise to me. 
  
  The game attempts to add depth through character personalities and relationships. For the most 
 part this is a successful tactic, but the player knows so little about the characters in the first 
 place that you feel kind of detached from your player during these sequences. 
  
  The polished feel to the game is a huge asset. Between the graphics, the cool weapons, the awesome 
 levels, the mysterious environment, and the progressively creepy plot, Prey is a game that is fun 
 to play because its few weaknesses are seriously outweighed by its strengths. 
  
  The overall quality of Prey is superb. Compared to other FPS games out there, it stands out for 
 me. It has a little bit of everything: great graphics, a good story, several innovative and unique 
 game elements, really cool design, and even a certain amount of scare factor. It is certainly worth 
 playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sorvos
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 3, 2008 12:25 pm PT
Review:  In case you didn't figure it out on your own by reading my Doom 3 and Resurrection of Evil reviews, 
 I am going to tell you: I'm a HUGE Doom 3 and RoE fan. So naturally, when I find a game that looks 
 similar, I don't think too much before I play it.
  The same happened with Prey. I was searching all kind of Doom 3 lookalike games on Gamespot and 
 I got to Prey. The title sound good, I read the official Gamespot review and I said "it looks ok, 
 let's try it". 
  Although it was not exactly what I expected, it was a great experience and somehow fun to play 
 it.
  
  The plot is quite simple. You're a Cherokee Indian named Tommy. You were a soldier, you've done 
 your duty to the country and now you just want to settle down. The game starts revealing you in 
 the bathroom of a bar, looking in the mirror and arguing with yourself for not having the guts 
 to tell your girlfriend you want to get together with her ( something like that ) . After that, 
 a woman voice calls you and you go to the bar. There you find an old Cherokee dressed up the traditional 
 way. His name is Enisi and he's your grandfather. The girl that is working at the bar is Jen and 
 she's the one that Tommy likes ( yes she is Cherokee too ) . Some minor chat follows between Tommy 
 and Jen. Tommy wants her to go with him out of the reservation where they are living and find a 
 better life. Jen isn't as enthusiastic as Tommy. A fight between Tommy and two outlaws takes place 
 and after the actual game really begins. Strange and powerful noises are coming from outside and 
 if you look through the window you see cars being lift up by a green light ( abducted by aliens, 
 that's right ) . The same happens to the bar and everyone inside it. In a matter of seconds you 
 find yourself in a strange room with huge windows that reveal a terrifying picture: planet Earth.... 
 You are in space, on an alien ship....
  The atmosphere is very convincing in the beginning. You hear people screaming in terror, strange 
 soldiers with strange dog-looking pets walking on walls, making you question yourself: What the 
 hell is going to happen to me? Tommy manages to escape the pod he was trapped in and starts his 
 biggest adventure. An adventure so intense in the exchange of the lives of his beloved ones, Enisi 
 and Jen.
  
  
  
  The game uses Doom 3 graphics engine, so it looks great. The levels and all the things you interact 
 with are beautifully designed and makes you feel like you are really there. The story and the course 
 of the game however are entirely different. Also you'll never find the scares and tense moments 
 from Doom 3. So, as for this aspect, the game let me down a bit. But, I quickly got over it. In 
 my opinion the games starts very well and leaves you to discover its mysteries. After you blast 
 your way through the first levels, you always have a deja-vu feeling. Been here, done that. Many 
 times while playing I got quite bored, there wasn't much action to attend to. Also, Tommy's quest 
 seemed to be something very "domestic" (he's just looking for his girl) . The last levels however 
 really made up for it. They were not only very intense, but very interesting too.
  The best part of this game and most innovative is the wall walk and spirit walk. The wall walk 
 can be done only on adequate surface. You'll recognize them by being ligthened. When you walk on 
 them, there is no gravity. You are virtually stuck on them. When you jump, you'll fall down until 
 you reach a normal surface or in worst cases, you'll die if there is nothing to safely land on. 
 And now, the best part of the game, the spirit walk. In the first levels you walk on bridge and 
 that bridge falls, killing you. It's something you can't avoid. After you die, you are sent to 
 the sacred place of the Cherokees, where your grandfather teaches you how to use your spiritual 
 powers. He also gives you a sacred bow that can only be used when you have activated the spirit 
 walk. This spirit walk is very useful to enter rooms otherwise inaccessible to get supplies or 
 to turn a force field off that will allow you to pass in human form. Also there are many puzzles 
 throughout the game that can only be solved while spirit walking. Most of them may take time to 
 figure out. The best part is that when you die you are teleported to a sacred place with flying 
 spirits circling you. They are colored red and blue. You must shoot ( bow only ) red ones to replenish 
 your health and blue ones to recharge your spirit walk indicator. After about 20 seconds you are 
 teleported back to continue your fight. That is an great idea all and all, because you don't have 
 to save often and rely on loadings in case you die. Still, it can't get annoying doing this often.
 
  
  The weapons are very well put together and look nice. They combine the looks of conventional high-tech 
 weapons with alien organic parts. They also sound good and many of them leave quite a scar on your 
 enemies.
  
  The enemies are also well designed and behave well, although their AI is not something you won't 
 handle. Best thing is that most of them drop weapons for you to use. I my opinion, some of them 
 are quite gross, but still there is no doubt in my mind that the producers spend a good time trying 
 to come up with them and they did a good job.
  
  As a conclusion, Prey is a worthwhile experience that offers you an gameplay you've not seen frequently. 
 If you are patient enough to past the middle of the game, which is somehow boring, you'll be greatly 
 rewarded in the end, although this may not be a game to replay soon. However, despite a few flaws, 
 Prey is a solid creation, that is worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Homeless320
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 21, 2008 4:02 am PT
Review:  What a great game! I began playing about an hour a night but I finally became so immersed in the 
 story I went on a playing marathon and completed it tonight. I loved the premise with all the twists. 
 Although it was necessary to the plot, some things I hated to see but won't say in case there is 
 anyone still left that hasn't played it. Wasn't the shuttle fun? Going up and up into some of those 
 chambers was a great ride. It was also great to solve puzzles that fit the story rather than have 
 no real meaning. Finally, the world that was created was amazing. Many times I just walked around 
 enjoying the scenery. Looking out at the world enclosed in the space ship was breathtaking. Too 
 bad we couldn't take the shuttle and just fly out into it. I planned on giving this a 10 but I 
 did get a little tired shooting for my health. And some reviews mentioned that it was a little 
 tiring shooting the same characters over and over, I found it fun with the different weapons. Was 
 it just me but did the gravity walks play tricks on your eyes as if you were really walking upside 
 down. Finally, I rank this game right up with the big games like Half-Life, COD, GOW. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ssuttles
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 4, 2008 6:37 am PT
Review:  For me, the FPS has always been best on a console. That was one reason I kept passing up Prey for 
 the past two years. Wow, what a mistake on my part. The game has a fun and interesting storyline 
 with excellent control. I have found many PC FPS's to be too jumpy in the past, but not this one. 
 The learning curve for this jump is only about three minutes. This is great because gaming is for 
 fun and relaxation, not studying for an hour on how to play the game. The graphics are excellent 
 for 2006 and the Doom 3 engine used to build was greatly improved. The programmers manage to remove 
 that bounce that Doom had and the following Bioshock. One of the great features of the game is 
 the Death Walk. If you die, you go to the spirit plane to kill ghost and build up life and spirit 
 energy. This removes so much frustration from the game. Instead of dying in a heavy firefight and 
 restarting a level, you can die and come back even stronger. One side note, the lighter is greater 
 because you don't need to search everywhere for fluid. So, if you are looking for a fun shooter 
 to pass the time but not an all out war fest then this is the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xipotec
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 2, 2008 5:59 am PT
Review:  Prey was likely one of the most underated games of its time. For anyone who loves the sci fi genre 
 , it is a must play. The first thing that stands out with this game is the textures and overall 
 feel of the enviornments. These landscapes are beautiful and disgusting in a very detailed way. 
 Add to this an impressive soundtrack, something lacking in todays games, and you get a very imersive 
 experience.
  
  The game features an anti gravity type platform which causes the world to turn on its end , ceiling 
 becomes floor and vice versa. This is a very good effect and really adds to the feeling disorientation. 
 many people talk about the scene in Crysis that you find youself in antigrav, this was clearly 
 inspired by Prey.
  
  The abilty to spirt walk (out of body experience) really added another level to the puzzels. Hints 
 engraved on the wall often gave you a gentle nudge when you got stuck. The fact that you never 
 really die was also a plus keeping the action going.
  
  Whats not so hot? The weapons lack a satisfying punch. If i'm playing a sci fi shooter ,I really 
 expect a version of the BFG , gimme some really wicked weapons man, the ones here feel tame. The 
 best gun is the leech and with only 3 shots, its limited. The Ai is also clumsy, but what 1st person 
 shooters ai is really all that good.
  
  I also like the fact that this game was clearly written for adults, (language and violenece, sexual 
 themes) . When are PC gamer developers going to realize that folks with the money would like a r 
 rated version of a game, not pg-13.
  
  If you like shooters, sci-fi, and imersive worlds, you will want to check this one out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cunhao
Rating: 8
Date: May 24, 2008 3:32 pm PT
Review:  Prey don't bring nothing of revolutionary... nothing that had been seen, but make you feel something 
 like no other game makes, because was surprising well maked. The use of the same engine of Doom 
 3 is the power and the weakness of this game.
  
  Like Doom 3 and Quake 4, Prey show us stunning textures and lights that even the most beautiful 
 current game can't show, making the atmosphere something unique. Different of the others games 
 that use this engine, Prey brings a new look to it, using more accurate and real shadows, great 
 looking bump maps and give to the light a new life with the use of the glow effect. Even the enemies 
 are much more well maked, with more details. Even with all that improvements in the engine, still 
 feel in some way out dated in front of some games in the same period.
  
  Then the simple but involving history. You're a descendent of a powerful Cherokee tribe (but you 
 ignore that... you don't believe until you really need it) and you're in love with a girl from 
 your tribe but never said that he loves her. Until you get involved in a bar fight and suddently 
 a green lights appear and suck everything (that includes you, 'your' girl and your grandfather) . 
 In this point, you have to fight to survive, rescue your girl and save the planet from a alien 
 race. And, even if you get in the middle of the game and don't have no more reasons to play... 
 i say that you don't gave attention to the history, because it's one of that you want to play to 
 know what comes next and how we will get out of that mess! And (many can desagree with me in here) 
 the great voice acting makes the Domasi (the main character) easily one of the most charismatic 
 heroe of all time. The only voice that i don't like is of his 'girlfriend'... sounds much artificial 
 and fake.
  
  And all this is told followed by a incredible sound track! I just loved the musics of this game 
 that just get to pass all the moment in form of music to you, just looking like a 'grand hollywood's 
 movie sound track' that in many ways involved me in the game.
  
  But is evident that Prey lack in some details that makes all the difference... like the poor and 
 ridiculous AI, few types of enemies... the puzzles that in the begginning surprise you with the 
 use of the "Spirit Walk", portals, energy doors, platforms, elevators, just stay repetitive in 
 the middle of the game. Even staying more complex, you just need to make all the same.
  
  Because of the Damasi's powers, the game based in that to be very fast and with no need to you 
 make quick saves while you're in game. You can't choose one difficult, its auto ajust along your 
 play, making sometimes you lose half of your HP in an explosion and another time you just die.. 
 or loose almost all your HP. And even if you die, you don't need to worry: just shot down some 
 spirits to get back to life! This make the game extremely fast, because you don't need to make 
 all again, even in the bosses, and in some way make the game much more easy. To some, this can 
 be good and to others, can be very disappointing.
  
  But, in the very end of the game, when all ends, it's impossible you say that don't worth all the 
 time (and money) to finish this game. The history is simple surprising and make you want more. 
 Then, the almost perfect sound track, amasing level design, puzzles that just bring your sense 
 of space and gravity to a new perception (like walk in walls, portals and the spiritual world) , 
 good weapons desings (only 6, but 5 have a secondary mode of fire) ... put all together and you 
 have one FPS that can't pass blank and if you already played it, you will never forget what you 
 passed throught Prey. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dgsag
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 25, 2008 9:40 pm PT
Review:  Read score breakdown here: http://www. poland. us/strona,33,2295,0. html
  
  Prey is one of those games that just took an incredible length of time to come out, following the 
 likes of Duke Nukem Forever and even STALKER (but that ended up being a great game) . But, is Prey 
 any good?
  
  Prey starts off brilliantly with its intro, as you're put in the role of an American Cherokee who 
 witnesses the beginning of an alien invasion. It really is a great scene, as you spend the first 
 two minutes walking around the bar and interacting with the characters and even arcade machines 
 a la Doom 3. Its once you get in the ship that you realize the rather glaring problems and inconsistencies 
 inherent in the gameplay.
  
  Prey's main gimmick is its portals. Similar in function to doors, these portals can take you to 
 wildly different areas in the blink of an eye. However, these portals are placed statically in 
 the game world, unlike in Portal, where you create your own portals and paths in order to solve 
 puzzles. Their are some cool gravity-defying tricks such as gravity-reversing switches and floor 
 panels which allow you to walk on the "ceiling." The level designs are great, and the designers 
 learned how to use the 3D space quite effectively. Also, Tommy learns to Spirit Walk, where your 
 spirit leaves its body and lets you access parts of levels and solve puzzles you usually wouldn't 
 be able to.
  
  The rest of Prey feels just as disappointing as the Doom 3 technology that powers it. The gameplay 
 is simply derivative, FPS fare which was present in the late 90s. You run down hallways and gun 
 down enemies with about 5 different weapons. The health system removes any challenge in the game. 
 If you die, Tommy is sent to the Spirit world, where he has to shoot down spirits to get health 
 and energy back and is then revived. It basically feels as if you're playing the game in God mode, 
 being similar to the vitachamber system found in Bioshock. The AI is also pretty disappointing. 
 Prey's multiplayer only features Deathmatch and Team Deathmatch, so you won't be coming back after 
 beating the six-hour campaign.
  
  Sure, if Prey had been released on time, it would have been revolutionary. But, coming out this 
 generation, it's merely an ok shooter. Let's hope Duke Nukem Forever turns out better... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: poisonedpawn
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 19, 2008 12:42 pm PT
Review:  Prey is a fun FPS with very little to complain about. Though a little on the short side, there 
 are enough unique twists to the gameplay to keep the player interested the whole way through.
 
  
  The actual shooting elements don't really vary any from a standard FPS. The weapons all look neat, 
 and some are really fun to blast your enemies away with but for the most part they're just alien-looking 
 versions of typical weapons (machine guns, grenades, rocket launchers, etc.) I wouldn't say that's 
 necessarily a bad thing, and the other interesting aspects of the gameplay should probably make 
 up for it if anyone actually cares about originality in the weapons.
  
  Some of the other aspects include some gravity-based puzzles (where you need to change the gravity 
 to different surfaces in the room in order to get to the exit) , portal-based puzzles (figuring 
 out what portals you need to travel through to get to your destination) , as well as your ability 
 to leave your body and perform a spirit walk through various obstables and to fly alien shuttles 
 through the vastness of the alien sphere.
  
  They were all fun, but I'd have to say the spirit walks became repetitive quickly. They were almost 
 always used to cross through forcefields to deactivate them or to cross bridges only your spirit 
 self could see in order to open a door or raise an elevator. There were some unique uses to the 
 spirit walks in the game, especially near the end, but some more variety would have been nice.
 
  
  The game is also pretty easy, though depending on the individual that may be a good thing. You 
 can never really die, and when your body does happen to die, you're transported to a spirit world 
 where you need to fend off evil spirits (gaining health and spirit energy in doing so) until you 
 can return to the real world precisely where you died. It makes fighting bosses much easier than 
 they would otherwise be and you rarely have to worry about saving frequently because its pretty 
 much impossible to have to repeat anything if you die.
  
  All in all, the creepy alien environments along with the interesting aspects of the gameplay take 
 Prey from being just another shooter to being one that is a really enjoyable experience. It was 
 certainly worth more than the $5 I got it on Steam for... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamingMonkeyPC
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 13, 2008 11:23 am PT
Review:  Pros:
  + Organic environment is crazy looking: One of the most unique environments that I've ever been 
 in
  + Weapons are very unique: Essentially it's like: submachine gun, grenade, chaingun, shotgun, grenade 
 launcher - but all these are in organic form
  + Great puzzle designs: This is what somewhat made this game pretty unique from other games, especially 
 with the spirit walking deal
  + Pretty lengthy (at the time purchased for $5) : Just when I thought it was about to end... it 
 keeps going and going... and going...
  
  Cons:
  - Voice acting is corny: Seriously, Tommy sounds like a douche and Jen has such a fake acting voice
 
  - Can be pretty disorienting at times: There were moments where I absolutely had to take a break 
 and catch some air
  - Confusing game parts: Although there are hints throughout the game it took me a while to figure 
 out some of the puzzles, but maybe I'm not very observant
  - Still feels like a regular FPS shooter. Lots of just running and shooting
  
  Summary:
  
 Well got this game from Steam for $5 and was pleasantly surprised on how lengthy this game is. 
 Basically run and shoot. Solve a few puzzles here and there. Beautiful environment. There are a 
 few things that can be polished here and there to make this game an excellent one - especially 
 on some of the level designs. Other than that, it's a solid FPS game worth going through. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheAcejoel99
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 4, 2008 11:43 pm PT
Review:  It's a FPS with a few things that are pretty cool added to the mix to keep is from being a so-so 
 game. It has solid controls, gameplay, visuals, but everything feels very standard, nothing above 
 average, except, there are a few things that are worth mentioning. Like portals, which are pretty 
 cool, but you never get to make portals yourself, but bad guys come out of them, and you can walk 
 though portals that they make. And one other neat thing is that gravity can be altered in some 
 neat ways, like these walk-ways that let you walk up walls and on the ceiling. And also there are 
 these switches that if you shoot will also mess with the gravity. And lastly when you die, you 
 DON'T DIE!!! You actualy can't lose the game, because when you die, you just go to this big rock 
 and shoot flying spirit things, to come back to life. These things like gravity and portals aren't 
 as neat as they sound, there neat the first few times you use them, but after awhile you see that 
 the portals are pretty much doors in disguise and it just isn't very neat enymore. Also there is 
 ONE vehicle you get about half way though the game, and you will use is every once in awhile to 
 get around. The guns have a nice little twist to them also. The game dose do one thing wrong though..... you 
 only see ONE enviornment the ENTIRE GAME!!!! Your in the space ship the whole game, except two 
 or three times you go to "The spirit relm". And there are only about three different enemys for 
 the first 80% of the game, then at the end, things get a nice twist to the enemys. Also there are 
 puzzles thown in for good measure, but 90% of them are EXTREMELY easy and will only take a second 
 or two to do. The game dosen't do much wrong, and has some nice little twists, I think you will 
 like it! So give it a chance.
  
  Good: Solid FPS.
  SOME neat puzzles.
  A nice twist on FPS's.
  
  Bad: Pretty much one enviornment the whole game.
  Not enough different 
 enemys.
  mojority of puzzles are too easy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WonderBread88
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 27, 2008 11:39 pm PT
Review:  Storyline: 8 - Interesting story. Not too many of this style out. Good use of the grandfather and 
 the spirit through the game.
  
  Graphics/Physics: 9 - Fantastic graphics, very much like Doom 3 in style or gore. Graphics alone 
 could make this game interesting enough for some time. Great physics envolved with the portals, 
 spirit mode, and antigravity.
  
  Sound: 7 - Sound quality is great and has realisitic value to the voices. Aliens being able to 
 speak english is rather lame
  
  Environment/Maps: 8 - Maps are a little over dark or shadowed but is fine due to the context of 
 the game. Very detailed maps, great use of the antigravity and the spirit mode adds a lot to the 
 gameplay.
  
  Game Engine/Scripting: 8.5 - Great physics envolved with the portals, spirit mode, and antigravity, 
 very top notch. Engine was made very well, and quite similar to Doom 3. A few minor issues with 
 the menu.
  
  Interface: 8 - Menu was buggy and even at times unresponsive or so it seemed. User interface during 
 gameplay was very well made. Interesting selection and use of weapons in both normal and spirit 
 modes. 
  -----------------------------------------------
  
  Overall: 8.5 - Portals, Antigravity, and even a seperate spirit mode adds great value to the gameplay 
 and puzzles with in it. Story gets a little weak at times but graphics and style make up for it. 
 Games style is very close to that of Doom 3, by that I mean the gore, use of shading, and environment. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: totalgridlock
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 12, 2008 9:36 am PT
Review:  A title familiar to gamers as far back as 1995, Prey is one of those games that languished in development 
 hell for quite a silly amount of time before seeing release. Envisioned by 3D Realms (of Duke Nukem 
 3D fame) , the game went through countless design iterations, graphical revamps, and a string of 
 developers that culminated in Human Head Studios (makers of Rune) finally unveiling the finished 
 product in 2006. It's easy to expect a sort of Daikatana non-event; but to be fair to Prey, that 
 isn't the case at all.
  
  Prey plays much like any other science fiction shooter in that you run around, shoot aliens and 
 save the world. It does have a twist or two though, utilising gravity-switching and portal jumping 
 gameplay that adds a nice puzzle-solving aspect to the game in addition to the often intense action. 
 It certainly spices things up, and unlike the spirit mumbo-jumbo (I'll come to that in a moment) , 
 is a gimmick that works surprisingly well. Every shooter these days needs a gimmick, it seems  
 preferably one that shows off the power of the engine and how clever all those programmer chaps 
 are. It can't really hold a candle to later physics-a-go-go attempts such as Portal, but it's a 
 nice try all the same. I can't think of any other game that gives me that 'at the top of a rollercoaster' 
 feeling in the bottom of my stomach, but Prey actually did once or twice.
  
  I mentioned spirit nonsense above, but first let me explain why (in my opinion) Prey fails. In 
 an odd way Prey suffers from an excess of identity, most of it centered on the main character and 
 protagonist, Tommy. A Cherokee Indian who hates his heritage, doesn't like living on a reserve, 
 wants his girlfriend to share his views and whines and moans about it at every opportunity. While 
 I love a good story, the main drawing point of first-person shooters is that we can step into the 
 shoes of a silent, often nameless gun-toting hero and not have to worry about his cultural crisis 
 or whether his girlfriend wants to run away with him. It would be great if we could actually care 
 about the character, unfortunately I couldn't bring myself to care one iota. Simply, the character 
 in Prey is blatantly unlikeable and a bit of a tool.
  
  I don't know if we're supposed to undergo the same sort of awakening as Tommy during the course 
 of the game, but the whole Indian spirit thing seems incredibly out of place, tacked on and pretty 
 shoddily done to my eyes. I don't pretend to know much about Cherokee culture, but I'm sure this 
 is just another case of trying to do something different and of course, everyone knows that spirit 
 guides and all that are cool, right? The Indian stuff just doesn't fit with the rest of the plot, 
 which basically revolves around evil aliens coming and harvesting the Earth's population  the 
 oil and water approach may work sometimes but here it's just painful and simply another way to 
 bash us over the head with Tommy's angst. The only plus-point of the whole deal is the introduction 
 of 'spirit-walking'  which lets you temporarily leave your body to solve yet more puzzles.
  
  The story itself, as already mentioned, is fairly run-of-the-mill alien invasion game fare. 
 Nothing bad, a few nice points and an unusually downbeat ending that counters the sense of satisfaction 
 derived from completing the game with a 'now what?' feeling. I don't think sequels will emerge, 
 so it's best to just take what we're given and move on.
  
  What we're given isn't an awful lot more than any other shooter. Six or so hours of single-player 
 gaming and as much multi-player as you want. The online Prey community isn't exactly bustling, 
 but it's there if you want it. Deathmatch and team deathmatch. The joy. At least there's likely 
 to be a real challenge when facing other people, as opposed to the single-player game, where you 
 can't even die.
  
  As a game that was released less than two years ago, not surprisingly Prey looks good. Based on 
 a modified Doom 3 engine, the textures and models are detailed and varied enough to keep your attention, 
 and there are more than a few 'wow' moments: when you suddenly arrive a huge open area or coming 
 across one of several impressive set-pieces.
  
  In fact, the alien ship design is my favourite aspect of the game. The horrific mish-mash of cold, 
 twisted metal and pulsing, bloody organic matter is great. Giger-esque with a touch of The Matrix 
 thrown in and disturbingly sickening, two thumbs up from me. Sure, it's been done before in games, 
 but the visuals here are stunning all the same.
  
  In the sound department, the effects aren't really anything special, being rather generic energy 
 blasting sounds and the like. The voice acting isn't a shining beacon of hope either, with the 
 main character sounding bored and the aliens all speaking perfect English. The score is nice enough, 
 composed by Jeremy Soule and of his usual high quality. One nice touch is the addition of a working 
 jukebox in the bar where you start the game  you can select from a number of decent tunes (Judas 
 Priest, Heart, Blue yster Cult, Ted Nugent and newer acts such as SOiL and Clutch) .
  
  To sum things up, Prey has potential but sadly fails to live up to what it could have been. Huge, 
 unforgivable flaws drag this one down. And, 3D Realms, we're still waiting for a certain you-know-what. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ed_130
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 8, 2008 7:05 am PT
Review:  This game though similar to your average FPS differs in some of the unique ways you interact with 
 the environment. First is the perspective, you can walk up some walls and end up walking on the 
 ceiling. This reminds me of the days of Descent. If you want to get off the walkway and back to 
 the ground just jump off. Though I don't recommend this if the character is some 30 feet above 
 the floor. 
  The other unique game element is Spirit walk and Death walk. Spirit walk is where you leave your 
 body and are armed with a spirit bow to kill your enemies. You are invisible until you attack or 
 interact with other creatures. 
  Death walk is fun, instead of reloading a saved game when you die you battle your way out of the 
 afterlife back to the land of the living. This in itself is a minigame. 
  The graphics are good but are a little dated by today's standards. The game play is straightforward 
 with some puzzle elements thrown in. I've only played a few levels and I already find myself really 
 liking this game. At the price it's selling these days this is a great way to spend some quality 
 time blowing up aliens. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Walker11
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 8, 2008 1:56 am PT
Review:  My first impressions of Prey were great, solid graphics for its time, fluint gameplay, however 
 it repititiveness gets old and i believe that the game developera begin to lack ideas. This is 
 extremly gruesome, but realistiic.... the gravity ability is pointless and frustrating, as it is 
 an alien game more ideas could have been used. sounds pretty cool as well.
  
  Sound...8.0
  Graphics...8.5
  Gameplay...7.5
  Replay Value...4.0
  Overall...7.0
  
  
 
  
  My first impressions of Prey were great, solid graphics for its time, fluint gameplay, however 
 it repititiveness gets old and i believe that the game developera begin to lack ideas. This is 
 extremly gruesome, but realistiic.... the gravity ability is pointless and frustrating, as it is 
 an alien game more ideas could have been used. sounds pretty cool as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: herzalot
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 17, 2008 4:01 am PT
Review:  gameplay {8} : this game is a copy from doom 3. but gameplay is worthy and sometimes little scary. AI 
 of the enemys are good. and they know how to attack you. but this game is vey easy. because you will 
 never dead. and sometimes the game will be annoying because its bad and dark ambiance.
  
  graphics {7} : there is nothing especial about this. it is excellent in technical. but it is very weak 
 in artist part.
  
  sounds and musics {9] : this game has a couple of original musics and about two or three strong licensed 
 musics. also this kinds of game doesnt need musics and their musics are the sound of the weapons. but 
 this game made a great job. sounds are great too.
  
  
  value {9] : this game was very late and many peoples was waiting for it but i dont think their get 
 their thing. the game is very linearly. the story is weak in first. but it is very effective in last. weapons 
 are some kinds of live animals and the airship you play the game in it is a organic thing. some 
 bad things are in this game. but none of it stops you to enjoy the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kaziechameleon
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 16, 2008 4:23 pm PT
Review:  THE GOOD
  Good art design throughout with a few moments that are just fantastic. some interesting weapons, 
 some great level design, some fun battles, some good story with a few great moments. some good 
 to better multiplayer.
  
  THE BAD
  some bad character models, its probably a doom3 engine thing but people look like crap. some boring 
 weapons some pointless combat, some pointless puzzles (the same puzzle like twenty times is very 
 obvious filler) some bland levelz, some stupid enemies, some hammy dialogue, some bad story elements.
 
  
  THE RANT (disclaimer: skip if you don't want to read someone aimlessly complaining about or praising 
 the game)
  
  Well i just started playing this game at eleven thirty this morning and beet the game by 6:30, 
 stopping to eat and drive around aimlessly and miss class. so the average competant game should 
 push through the title in about seven hours. kinda short, and at that i did notice some filler 
 and filler in a short title pisses me off, honestly cut out the filler and do a finer job polishing 
 the great moments nix the campy dialogue and refocus the story. may sound like i didn't like prey, 
 well your wrong i did. yeah even after playing portal and halo3 and bioshock i liked prey. it isn't 
 the best game but if you are a shooter jock you owe it to your self to give the demo a try and 
 see if it could work for you cause the demo is basically the game, sure the scale increases and 
 the puzzles are more fun towards the end, but as you could imagine the demo is the opener of the 
 game so it is a decent taste and represents the production values of the title. i found this game 
 to be comparable to halo 3, though halo has better sound and a smidge better of a story the campaign 
 is shorter and far more unpolished than this title. also halo 3 offers a familiar online experience 
 but so does prey it's doom3's death match but with great level design, the kind that would make 
 epics ut2004 level designers jealous. i can't say how fully featured the online is but the core 
 of it is pretty fun for the deathmatch junky. agian try the demo it has a good sample of that. 
 i keep referencing the demo, why? well i'm doing that because this is a very subjective review, 
 the title came out a year ago and alot of expectations have been changed, alot of what these guys 
 pioneered has since been conquered to better effect, yes portal is a better portal puzzler than 
 this, yes ut3 is better deathmatch, yes bioshock is a better fiction (or sci fi or whatever) and 
 half life 3, i mean episode 2 has better puzzles, well kinda. i would have given over all puzzle 
 design to this game had it not had some of the most mundane filler for puzzles, spirit walking 
 through a force field for the fifth time is old, let alone the twentieth or 30th. there are some 
 genuinely awesome portions to this game some reall y awesome battles and some really fun guns, 
 but do you see what i'm doing there i'm saying some, not every thing, similar to halo this game 
 is also filled with some level of mediocrity, the assault sniper rifle, boring, the grenade assault 
 rifle also boring, why even try to remake these into bio weapons, why not have some more tangible 
 designs to help ground the player, or do something fantastic and well realized. the story has a 
 few great moments filled with some, wow if that isn't stupid, moments. all in all the sequence 
 after the credits is rather good and opens the title for a franchise without seeming silly. for 
 twenty dollars (that is what i payed for the collecters edition like five months ago when i bought 
 it.) you can't go wrong, and i think this is a sleeper, had i played this title a year ago when 
 it came out i may have loved it. but i was lax. you could always wait for a dry spell and then 
 pick up this title. oh almost forgot to type about spirit walking well spirit walking is used to 
 spare you from death and to solve puzzles, it works well when not abused and it the course of this 
 title they abused it. to many repetitious identical spirit puzzles for me.
  
  THE RUNDOWN
  GRAPHICS
  There are better looking game out currently and the only part of the 
 game that looks remotely dated are the human models. combined with some uneven art design, moments 
 of greatness mixed with moments or forget ability, this game over shadows its own accomplishments 
 with every ounce of mediocrity that shows it's self.
  8.5
  GAMEPLAY
  well there are puzzles and there is some twitch based combat, enemy grunt AI isn't to impressive, 
 it's very reminiscent of doom3 for starters, i would say shooting portions of this game compare 
 to doom3 but without reloading (most weapons) puzzles are present and are a mix of good and challenging 
 to pointless (take note valve you guys are starting to add pointless physics puzzles) the portals 
 are not so often used as a puzzle element as for a gimmick but a well done one at that. the physics 
 is one up over the portals the best puzzles use and fluid combination of physics, portals, and 
 spirit walking. multiplayer is fun simple but well done, deathmatch in portal/gravity crazy environments 
 is a blast. the game play would have scored atleast a full point higher had i not had to suffer 
 filler in a short title like this.
  7.5
  
  SOUND
  some voice work is good the main villain in this title is the main villain/narrator of gears of 
 war. some of the voice work is solid some is hammy enough to belong in a C&C cinematic.
  7
  
  VALUE
  When this game came out I'm sure it was a rock solid title, but I'm reviewing it now 
 so that isn't counting in it's favor currently. i bought it for twenty and i'm happy i did. there.
 
  8
  
  TILT
  This is a good start for a franchise and i do hope they continue the story.
  8
  
  FINAL SCORE
 
  A very competant game with some deffining characteristics that only need a little more deffinition 
 to cement this franchise in greatness.
  8 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkwolf1982
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 18, 2007 5:01 am PT
Review:  Saw the advertising for Prey around the time we all saw DNF's Almighty announcement, unlike that 
 particular project Prey cut loose and turned out to be quite a good game.
  I must say Prey has a very interesting storyline, one which sounds like the whole Nibiru so called 
 prophecies (such a prophecy which could be considered to be rather Questionable one might say) .
 
  Definitely love the use of the ID Technology (Doom / Quake Game Engines) which was a very nice 
 choice for bringing Prey's environment to life.
  Weapons... So - So...
  Enemies... Hmmm... Yeah... LOVE THE CENTURION!!!
  Spirit Mode... Interesting puzzle solving tool... 
 Battling the Dishonoured Dead to get back into the game. That was pretty cool... gotta admit if 
 you did that too many times it would really become somewhat Annoying .
  Mind you at the end of it all there appears a caption...
  
  Prey will Continue... 
  
  Give 
 us a bloody cliffhanger why don't you!
  
  MultiPrey sounds too much like Doom III... Great SP action but the multiplayer is just you basic 
 deathmatch... Second-Rate stuff IMO.
  
  If you like cinematic story-driven games... Then Prey's one to consider. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zakld
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 13, 2007 4:57 am PT
Review:  All in all, the game surprised me with nice ideas, nice graphics and other strange bits that you 
 don't see normally. 
  
  The most interesting thing is probably wall walk although it gave me a headache, but still I like 
 new ideas. I'm expceting portal the game to be the same, although a bit more of a brain teaser 
 I hope. 
  
  All in all, a pretty good game, can; t really describe it in too much detail. It is definetely worth 
 a play, but it doesn't deliver more than Doom 3 or any other such similar game. 
  
  
  
  My marking system is as follows:
  
  10 - Absolute Legend
  9 - Must Be Played
  8 - Excellent 
 and Worth Your Time
  7 - Worth playing if you have nothing else to play
  6 - worh playing if you have nothing to play and are incredbly bored and have not got absolutely 
 anything else to do. (Barely playable/enjoyable) . 
  
  I don't give marks 1-5 as if a game starts sucking I don't finish it, so I only review the games 
 that are barely playable (6) to the absolutely amazingly incredible ones (10)
  
  I will also probably keep my reviews short as I don't like discovering too much about the gameplay. 
 I only like to give my quick opinion and get on with life.
  
  Best Wishes to everyone
  
  Zak 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamebills
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 9, 2007 1:34 pm PT
Review:  Prey is a FPS (First Person Shooter) with it's main game playing like DOOM 3. It manages to make 
 itself different and therefore memorable for some bit, yet most it's high points are how cool the 
 guns look or the living environment. I'm not saying Prey is crappy, it's just not all it can be.
 
  
  Well the story is very... basic. Boring? Bland. Your some indian named "Tommy" on an reservation 
 and you get abducted. Basically leading you to walk around an alien ship looking for your girlfriend. 
 Reminiscent of early mario games. tee hee.
  
  Ok so the ship your on is apparently called "The Globe" and you wander around aimlessly for several 
 hours. There are "Gravity Tracks" witch glow blue and can be turned on or off. You just walk up 
 them and along them, relentless of gravity of the level. There are also blue glowing orbs that 
 you shoot and flip the whole level to whatever side or celling or floor they are attached to. It's 
 cool, but they don't really do anything cool with them.
  
  Theres also energy locked doors witch u can use "Spirit Walk" to get through then disable the lock. 
 these are never really used cleverly either. I'm just dissapointed this game had so many good ideas, 
 but didn't quite use them right.
  
  Whether it's a disgusting door that opens like a human's behind, or tubes with liquid flowing through 
 them, almost everything is moving, or does when you shoot it.
  
  The guns are also constantly mobile. Tentacles weaving about, ammo shaking. Practically breathing 
 weapons are found among this strange ship but when you use them, they don't really have the kick 
 I was looking for. Every gun is loaded with lame looking "Energy Bullets" or something. And at 
 times, it's quite hard to tell if your actually hitting an enemy. They have just about no reaction 
 at all.
  
  The detail in this game is here, it's just a shame that Prey is so straightforward and non-explorable 
 that you never quite get the need to want to look at anything around you. 
  
  On the same note, multi player is horrendous and it like plays like golden eye 64. Glitchy, too 
 fast, and too hard to aim at anything you see, you'll just wander around with a grenade launcher 
 trying to shoot anywhere near another player.
  
  So if you would like to obtain another FPS that has its decent moments and several hours of decent 
 game play, pick this one up for just $14.99 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rocfort
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 25, 2007 3:52 am PT
Review:  Not a bad shooter, a little linear with few news and quite short. In the complex, not bad but for 
 sure not unforgettable. Mystical aspect are just for new age addicts and are in contrast with the 
 ultra-gore nature of the story. As compared to DOOM 3 and Quake 4 this game is just pretentious 
 and really without innovative aspect. Ennemies are quite stupid and there are very few difficult 
 moments worth to be replayed. Finaly if you like first person shooter, this game could be a choice 
 when your store has only strategy or MMPORG games, as one year ago. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darksaw66699942
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 17, 2007 10:51 pm PT
Review:  Good game for a FPS i waited a while at first due to shifty thoughts, but i wish i had not now. 
 story is a health length, learning is fast pace, guns are cool like and alt fires are pretty cleaver. 
 the run up walls and fires was difficult at first but you get use to it. there is not too much 
 of it but still pretty cool feature. i really can't wait for the next one to come out there will 
 be no waiting for it this time. i didnt use trainers though my brother did. hard mode wasnt much 
 harder i still got through it in a reasonable time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FallenDeath55
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 10, 2007 10:32 pm PT
Review:  This game I bought when I was looking for an alien FPS so I saw PREY.
  I got the game and started to play. The first level is in a bar with your girlfriend she basically 
 owns the place. You want to go away from it. While you go out of the bathrooms your gran father warns 
 about some cherokee stuff.
  The next minute while you talking to your girl an alien attack comes and takes you, your girlfriend 
 and your gran father as well as some pieces of furniture.
  This game starts with you in an alien earth that you need to escape with your family.
  
  You 
 grampa and girlfriend dies. You fight with alien guns and s\trying all the time to escape and you 
 also meet people on the alien planet who help you.
  Theres lots of boses which is good cause not lots of games have boses.
  And another thing you 
 get powers so when you die you can come back to life.
  
  I could tell the whole story but I would ruin it for you so I recommend that you buy the game!!!
 
  
  Graphics 9/10
  Gameplay 8/10
  Story 9/10
  Overall 9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlackFunk
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 10, 2007 12:14 pm PT
Review:  What can I say about Prey? It's short (8.8 hours according to Steam) , it's a Quake 4 ripoff and 
 there's too little variety in game play. That said there are still some interesting game elements 
 like the portals and especially the gravity play. By changing gravity or having multiple gravity 
 points in a map sometimes enemies are upside down or on a side wall (or it could be you of course) .
 
  
  I liked the game and it was good it wasn't that long because although the gravity stuff was pretty 
 entertaining most of the game was a straight run in a single direction and mostly in enclosed environments. 
 Not much variety was incorporated into the game play. I'm glad I got this one second hand and didn't 
 pay full price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fauxjangles
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 5, 2007 4:24 am PT
Review:  I was following this game before it's release, and when I finally saw GameSpot's review, I thought, 
 No way... 
  
  So I decided to go ahead and give it a shot. For me it was instant immersion. I was ready to take 
 my babe, throw a chair through a window, then take off with her on the hog. Just as soon as I beat 
 two drunken faces in though, **** got weird. From there on out it's basically a What In The Hell 
 moment. It doesn't take long to realize that you're screwed. As fate would have it though, you 
 manage to avoid a grizzly death, but not before seeing some of them first. Good thing you keep 
 that wrench in your pocket...
  
  Doesn't take long til you've got your first gun. At first I was disappointed. All but the wrench 
 were alien crafted weapons. That's not to say that these weapons aren't cool, but a little heavy 
 machine gun action is always sweet. What's real interesting about this game is the spirit powers 
 you have. Your Native American heritage has obviously bestowed upon you some great **** to tell 
 the guys. You're able to, at will, dump your living, breathing body for a ghostly Native American. 
 Also, a Spirit Bow. In this form you're able to see things your human eyes cannot. You're also 
 able to do some pretty good ambushes with the bow. Dieing isn't too big of a problem either. It 
 basically takes you to a mini game where you shoot your spirit bow at red and blue spirits, or 
 phantoms or something. Killing the red ones give you health, and the blue ones spirit energy. However, 
 whilst you try and shoot these fast moving buggers, you're being sucked back into existence. So 
 be quick or you might just end up being brought back with zilch life.
  
  All in all, this game provides an immersing atmosphere and interesting plot twists. The story isn't 
 super original, but the gameplay is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Eluser
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 2, 2007 10:23 pm PT
Review:  Okay this is my first review just for the books. I first came upon Prey Through a magazine. At 
 first I thought the graphics were better looking than anything I had ever seen at the time and 
 I believe this was around late 2005 (Im not incredibly good with dates) . Later I found that the 
 games graphics were actually sprouted from the Doom III engine. This actually got me a bit turned 
 off with the games graphics believe it or not, but still, I was ultimately attached to the games 
 graphics. Later when videos came out for the game, I found myself going onto sites scavenging for 
 what good game-play videos of Prey there were during the time like any normal hyped up fan (I hope) . 
 Then the days rolled by, soon the demo was released. The demo as I was remembered was incredibly 
 hyped just as its real game was. Gamespot was hosting a video of the demo and that only fuelled 
 my eagerness for a first fire of whatever gun or wrench the game was about to throw at me. Maybe 
 it was simply the high of the hype but the demo met my every expectation. I played it a number 
 of times and yet I was still not dreary of it, yet again perhaps because of the hype. Then as any 
 game would, Prey was released shortly. The day came when Prey was released and I enthusiastically 
 jumped to my chair and turned on my computer. The computer whirred and buzzed and soon I was on 
 the internet, typing in this Gamespots address and alas I finally typed in the name of the game 
 in the search menu one letter at a time, P, R, E and lastly Y. I scrolled down with every expectation 
 of a great or hopefully a superb score, my heart was pumping with every bit of hype that I had 
 gathered since that day I first saw Prey. But, when the page at last came to the little segment 
 where the games summary and alas where the score was displayed, I found myself not a great or 
 even superb score but a 7.5. Panic boiled in me, what could cause the editors at Gamespot, the 
 editors, the people that I had trusted for my reviews, with a professional and honest score and 
 opinion, to do Prey such a mediocre mark for something that I had awaited for so long, how was 
 it simply possible. I did not even dare to read the review. Preys price margin dropped and soon 
 I found the game for but 20 bucks. I got the game and started playing. I was soon baffled with 
 why Prey had gotten such a mark. I played through all the hours of Prey and found that almost every 
 minute of it was filled with excitement. The wall climbing of reversed gravity amused me when enemies 
 not only became simple limping ragdolls but also fell upward, sideways and any other way possible 
 and all the puzzles gave me a fun time scratching my head as I solved every puzzle diligently trying 
 to save Jen. The portals were fun and mind bending and every weapon had a punch, kick and quirk 
 with it. At the end I felt like a just finished watching a good sci-fi action movie filled with 
 explosions, enemies, cinematic moments, story and music. I had almost forgotten it was rated 7.5. 
 I felt like I had just played Half-Life again. Then it came to me why Gamespot gave this game such 
 score. It was because it was a game that was too by the books and ultimately Prey was at a been 
 there done that territory. As literary analyzers would say every book and story is based on one 
 that is already written and Prey was one of those books. It had already been done. There was disappointment 
 yet when I came to discover that MultiPrey (clever name for MultiPlayer) was but a ghost town 
 of empty official human head servers. But when there was the occasional server with players roaming 
 about it, there was great fun to be had. The fast paced shooting the arcade style death match had 
 me spending hours on endless multiplayer fun. In overview, the game was a great trip it did not 
 matter to me that it was too by the books it was still a great game. I feel that not all games 
 have to stand away from its predecessors and contrast it-self to become a great game and truly 
 one. -Gamespot, you used to be cool LOL Sorry if went a little over my head with this review 
 :-P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: daviddrinkard
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 30, 2007 8:59 pm PT
Review:  I can't believe more people didn't play this game. I can't even begin to put into words how much 
 joy I derived from this game. The words would most closely resemble: ABSOLUFREAKINAZING. First 
 let me run down how not typical this shooter is, just to clear things up. First of all, you play 
 as a native American named Tommy. Wow, a novel concept! Gee!!!!! You aren't a buffed up white dude 
 with huge pectorals or a thugged out black dude in a gang killing hookers. You're just a guy. He's 
 just a guy! Most of you would say Well dude, you're an idiot, other games have 'just a guy' it 
 them. Well all I see today is games where the hero character is from an elite squad of badass dudes, 
 who happens to be the last remaining dude from his badass squad; because he's the ultimate badass. 
 Where is the tension in this? Nowhere. Guaranteed survival. You are the ultimate badass, you can't 
 stop what isn't stoppable. Tommy is just a guy, he is vulnerable because he's just a regular dude. 
 You could die at any minute! Oh wait! YOU JUST DID.
  
  The deaths in this game take on a whole new depth. At an early point in the game, your character 
 is forced to die. This introduces a new concept which is tied to Tommy's heritage and beliefs. 
 When you die you aren't dead, but given a second chance. With this game you are given about 3409582 
 chances, because you actually die a lot. When you die, you are transported to the spirit world 
 where you have to battle spirits with your mystic bow. Each spirit you shoot adds health to your 
 human form and arrows for your spirit form.
  
  Spirit form? Mystic bow? WTF?!?!?!? Well, here's another layer to the cake that is Prey. You have 
 your Spirit Form, in which Tommy turns into a ghost and leaves his body momentarily. The power 
 is primarily used to solve puzzles and reach far away places. During the Spirit Form, you take 
 no damage, but the stationary body left behind can be hit, causing your ghost to fly back to the 
 body. While in Spirit Form you also get to shoot your spirit bow, which is recharged by collecting 
 souls from fallen enemies.
  
  Prey also employs a portal technology, which can be currently seen in Portal from Valve. Prey doesn't 
 allow you to create your own portal, but rather uses the portals to take you between areas and 
 transport monsters into the room with you. There are also portal based puzzles where you must enter 
 the correct portal to uncover a portal which takes you onto the next level.
  
  The Sphere in which the game takes place also makes use of physics defying gravity. You'll quickly 
 learn that up isn't up, but rather down... or left. To truly understand this you have to play the 
 game, because it's that crazy. I cannot really describe this to you, but just imagine that a guy 
 is standing on the wall shooting at you. That happens. A lot.
  
  You also have the ability to shift the direction of the gravitational pull in some areas. These 
 are green pads on the ground. You simply shoot the pad and that becomes the floor. This is used 
 a puzzle device throughout the game and can also be used to fling enemies into an abyss! SHAZAM!
 
  
  These concepts mesh really well to create a game that I strongly feel is an amazing game that everyone 
 should experience. It has a very compelling storyline and incredible graphics to boot. Granted 
 some of the graphics don't hold up to this minute's standards, but you have to take a step back 
 and play it for what it is: a great game. When you beat this game, you will be greeted with the 
 greatest end credits song ever. That song just puts a cherry on top of one of the greatest games 
 that I have ever played. You owe it to yourself to go play this game. Rent it or find it in the 
 bargain bin for $20 now. I paid $50 for it at release and it was worth every penny. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vijay39
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 28, 2007 4:59 am PT
Review:  Of the mundane titles that hardcore gamers like me chew through year after year, there are exceptional 
 titles that are memorable and, even worth re-playing. Prey is one of those games and has been wrapped 
 in almost a decade of stop-start production that is a story of its own. Rarely do we see games 
 that not only have such great production values, but executed near-flawlessly and presented immaculately. 
 Prey is about the epic battle of an emotionally conflicted protagonist named Tommy. He is of native 
 American-Indian descent and torn between his desire to escape his mired cultural background (as 
 upheld by his Grandfather) and his girlfriend who wants to live on the reserve and carry on her 
 Indian heritage. But as an argument and fight ensues in the bar they own, a terrifying alien abduction 
 event occurs; sucking our characters into the nightmarish world of the invaders. From the opening 
 sequences of the game, the player is given genuine, convincing voice-acting and believable yet 
 grounded characters. This has almost never been done well in any other first person games before 
 (except Clive Barker's Undying and Deus Ex) . Telling the story from a member of a cultural minority 
 group (here the native American Indians) may have been superfluously touched in the Turok series 
 but here is portrayed through a visceral and mind-blowing shooter. It certainly beats the musclebound, 
 all-macho western-centric heroes that have dominated pretty much all action games (phew! I never 
 thought I'd get this deep about a shoot 'em up!) .
  
  Make no mistake that Prey, despite the flack it has thus far received, is a fantastic shoot 'em 
 up. Conceived by 3D Realms, the people who made the hit classics like Duke Nukem 3D, Terminal Velocity 
 and a slew of other action titles - these guys know how to make a good game. Also, it is built 
 impressively by Human Studios and published 2K Games. Prey is built with a modified version of 
 the Doom 3 engine, and the graphics are horrifyingly spectacular. The aliens are revolting but 
 hi-tech and their invading mini-planet features a myriad of unknown technology. Tommy fights his 
 way through their invading planet but that is just the tip of the iceberg. You will occasionally 
 control alien crafts but much of the action takes place on foot with some frenetic boss-battles. 
 The innovative features of the game like wall-walking (paths that wind around walls and ceilings) 
 and true portals are used very well for some truly crazy level designs. Tommy native Indian heritage 
 also gives him access to powers such as death-walking (you don't die in this game, you just enter 
 a spirit world and revive yourself back to life!) and spirit-walking makes him an ethereal form 
 of himself; evading force-fields and finding hidden routes. These powers are bestowed upon Tommy 
 by his grandfather, who you visit in the sacred lands. The mix of these sacred land levels between 
 the dark and grim alien world give great contrast and create good plot foundations for Tommy's 
 powers and motives to rescue his girlfriend, Jen. The story is told incredibly well; the pacing 
 is just perfect and there are major twists to keep things interesting,
  
  To reinforce the great visuals, the sound design is superb, from the weapon effects to your ghost-pet 
 Talon, you find that the world of Prey just that much more too close for comfort. The music is 
 truly captivating; the opening overture is magnificent and the score throughout feels like some 
 John Williamsesque Hollywood symphony. The music gives the game a real cinematic edge. The overall 
 presentation of the game is also on par. The weapons, for example, have a bio-mechanical feel and 
 distinctive loading/ firing features that make Prey stand apart from other FPS'. The load times 
 between levels are short and do not detract from the game experience. My only criticism about this 
 game is that its way too short (6-8 hours of gameplay max.) . But apart from that, I haven't played 
 any other shooter than has been created with such good use production and high standards: one for 
 other games to live up to. It goes to show that expensive resources aren't worth anything unless 
 you have strong gameplay and good execution to make a game worthy. Don't believe the negative commentary 
 and tough ratings surrounding this game, appreciate it for what it is and you have played one of 
 the most memorable shooters ever made. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kroich
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 21, 2007 10:24 am PT
Review:  Prey certainly is interesting. And by the first time you play it, you will find it awesome... But 
 that is about it, the game is decadent, reducing itself to a always-the-same game. And there is 
 no culture confrontation between the aliens and the humans. They just kill each other!
  
  The ending is also disappointing, leaving no wish of having a sequel, even if it says it WILL have 
 a sequel. But cutting all this bad critics, the game is fun as it is and no questions asked about 
 its graphics and effects. You can certainly like it, even though I strongly recommend trying it 
 first... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shatter28
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 20, 2007 9:03 am PT
Review:  What a wasted effort this game! You can almost hear it in the voices of the voice actors in the 
 final moments of the game. On the up side, there is nothing in the game to really frustrate you 
 at all. It's pretty and it's got some good level design. The walkways that allow you to walk on 
 walls and ceilings are great, playing on your sense of gravity and up and down is fun, but it's 
 not enough. There is no challenge, zero, nada. You can't die. Imagine this: you get offered immortality 
 for your allegiance at some point , but you're immortal already!! D'oh. You will travel to the 
 spirit world where the spirits of your Cherokee ancestors live and you have to complete challenges, 
 or so they say.... Forget it; no challenge, not anywhere. It's really a shame, the game feels polished, 
 high production values, nice setting etc. etc. It's just so very bland. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BambooStudios
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 25, 2007 8:22 pm PT
Review:  This game was nothing spectacular but it was pretty fun to play through once. I've heard good things 
 about the multiplayer and it makes sense that it would be fun, but I haven't tried it. The gravity 
 tricks and portals make things different enough that the more derivative elements can be overlooked. 
 Some of the sequences and environments are huge and impressive but not totally awe inspiring. Prey 
 mixes things up a bit with the death penalty aswell; you go to the after life and shoot evil spirits 
 to regain lost energy. Unfortunately, some aspects of Prey come off as being too cheesy for my 
 taste. It's a weird mix of cheese and genuinely cool sci-fi elements that works well most of the 
 time but not always. Pick up this game if you've already played the better shooters (F. E. A. R., 
 Doom3, Far Cry, Half Life 2, etc.) and are looking for something to tide you over until the next 
 big title.
  
  On the technical side (because PC games always have a technical side) Prey looks pretty good. It 
 made good use of the Doom3 graphics engine and supported widescreen resolutions. The game was stable 
 so I don't have much to say about it other than that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doomwarrior235
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 13, 2007 10:31 pm PT
Review:  Prey was suppose to come out a long time ago. Finally it came out and it is an aw some game. Prey 
 adds some new features to shooters and has a great story and game play. You start out in a bar 
 with your girl friend and then get captured by some aliens. You get a whole bunch of cool weapons, 
 like a grenade that is a spider like thing and as soon as you rip off its legs that it turns into 
 a explosive. There are a bunch of puzzles in the game but some get a bit repetitive. The gun fight 
 in Prey are not that great but a few of them are fun, when take on bigger aliens. Prey's graphics 
 are amazing. The sound is also good. The problem with Prey is that it only lasts a few hours and 
 it does not have a lot of replay value. Over all if you liked shooters like Half Life 2 than you 
 will enjoy Prey. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: don16086
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 2, 2007 5:28 pm PT
Review:  This game is a quick romp at best but a fun one, graphics are good but what got me the most was 
 the cool portals, makes for good perspective that is very well done. Problem with games like this 
 is that they stick multi-player as an afterthought but this game needs coop and many, many games 
 like it, it's why people don't purchase games these days because of lack of replay value. At any 
 rate this game is worth your while to check out but don't go spending big bucks on it.
  
  The weapons are pretty decent, I like the animation of the stuff moving around on them and the 
 primary and secondary options are neat, the first weapon you get fires hot 'bar' like things and 
 you have a cool sniper option that I would like to see in more FPS games.
  
  The scale of this game is incredible as you wander around the ship wondering at times what the 
 heck you are supposed to do. You can turn yourself into a spirit to go through force fields and 
 other areas your normal body can normally not travel.
  
  Check this game out, in my opinion it rivals Doom 3 not just in graphics but in how you can interact 
 with things on a broader scale. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shingler10
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 1, 2007 1:29 am PT
Review:  Great Game, looks nice, plays nice. The levels are not difficult, there are no parts during the 
 game, when you feel 'stuck'. The height of difficulty, is being trapped in a giant cube, but you 
 soon figure out what is going on, an by shooting a few gravity....... things, your out, battling 
 all sorts of messed up enemys, with all sorts of messed up weapons. Also, constant progress is 
 being made, because when you 'die' you enter a spirit, mini game, where you have to shoot demons, 
 in order to reclaim health and spirit power, after a few seconds, you are sucked through a hole 
 in the floor, and your back in your own body, standing right were you died! The only thing can 
 say with this game, is the story line has basiclly been copied from another game, not going to 
 say anymore, but if you have ever played quake 4, you will know what i mean. Overall, i think its 
 a great game, well worth a play. More of a fun weekend blast, then a thrilling FPS though. But 
 still, good fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lostantix
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 26, 2007 3:19 am PT
Review:  Gamplay: I'd like to start off by saying that I hate Tommy. His dialogue pissed me off from the 
 start and I hated him ever since. The story was pretty mediocre, but a plot driven game is not 
 something you usually find in a shooter, so it's not to be expected. Basically, it's your average 
 Aliens are invading and you have to save the world... ! The story holds on for a good length of 
 the game. In my opinion, I think Prey needed a plot with more depth. I'm not saying, they should 
 have gone all out with the story. It's just that near the end of the game, I felt like I just wanted 
 to hurry up and finish the game because I had no incentive to continue. I think this had something 
 to do with either, the lack or story to motivate me or the lack of challenge. This game is easy 
 simply because of the fact that dying has no real consequences. You just respawn after a temporary 
 wait in a spirit world. None of the enemies regain their health when you die. You literally don't 
 suffer any setbacks except the 15 second wait and a little to no walking back to your previous 
 location. I felt as if there was a lack of quantity of enemies in favour of quality of enemies. 
 Meaning, you'll face a small amount of strong aliens instead of a large amount of weaker enemies. 
 I actually would have preferred this to be more varied as the number of aliens to kill was quite 
 disappointing. The puzzle solving in this game was to my liking. Not too easy, but not too hard. 
 When it comes to guns, I'm not favourable with sci-fi models. But in this case, I really did like 
 the alien guns. They didn't seem silly and were unique enough for my tastes. Prey has some pretty 
 fun gameplay concepts, most notably the room flips and the portals. The room flips are not as disorientating 
 as I thought they'd be and it's fun shooting aliens and watching them fall off the walkways. The 
 portals are also quite neat, although they can just be seen as a special looking door.
  
  Graphics &amp; Sound: Amazing graphics. The environments, the character models, the weapons and 
 everything else. If Prey has one thing, it's amazing graphics. Oh yeah, and the sound was solid. 
 Good sound effects, but nothing special.
  
  Replay Value: It's a shooter with multiplayer. It's replay value relies solely on how good the 
 multiplayer experience is. There really is no reason to play single player again (except on a higher 
 difficulty) .
  
  Prey is a solid game. With the exception of the game having little challenge, I'd say it makes 
 for a pretty good shooter. Not bad, but not great. Just good, but nothing special (except the novelty 
 stuff of course) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctorj11111
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 25, 2007 8:40 am PT
Review:  For $15, this game is a great value. The game has great graphics and good voice acting. The story 
 is ok, atleast better than Quake 4. One thing I liked is that your character would sometimes talk 
 and show emotion. The game tries new things like walking on ceilings and walls, but it just didn't 
 seem to flow well in the game. It was more annoying than anything. Also, you can change into spirit 
 form to walk through blocked doors to unlock doors so you can pass. This was absolutely pointless 
 and just slowed things down. There were some good boss battles and some of the monsters or aliens 
 looked pretty cool, but other than that the game was kind of dull. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thedevildweller
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 7, 2008 9:03 am PT
Review:  PREY
  
  A review by Simon a. k. a. The DevilDweller
  
  1. Intro
  2. Plot Story
  3. The Characters
  4. The Graphics
  5. The Game-Play
  6. The Sound / Effect / Voice
  7. 
 The Life-Span
  8. My Over-All Say
  
  1. Intro
  
  The Skies caught fire, bathing the Roadhouse in a harsh green glow. The earth shook as if giants 
 were lumbering towards us. Before we could find cover, light bored through the roof, ripping it 
 to shreds. No one had time to react as the giant craft above us sucked everybody up with a whirring 
 thunder.
  Just minutes before, callers flooded radio talk-shows, reporting strange lights in the sky throughout 
 the southwest. The media was loath to report these sighting, figuring them to be pranks. But soon 
 the truth became evident. There werethings in the sky, large flying discs, sending forth wide 
 iridescent beams. People yelled, "They're coming! They're coming!"
  But they weren't coming  they were already here.
  
  2. Plot Story 6/10
  
  The story starts 
 off in the man's toilets off a bar called, Roadhouse. You play Tommy, who wants to leave his home 
 reservation away from his roots and to take his girlfriend Jen with him. Tommy tries to convince 
 Jen to come with him. But Jen doesn't want to leave her home town. A few minutes after Tommy tries 
 to convince Jen to leave with him, a loud roar came from outside the bar as the ground shook. Then 
 everything went silent. After a few second, the ceiling off the Roadhouse bar started ripping apart. 
 Green glow bored through the roof sucking up everything the light touched. Tommy, Jen and his grandfather 
 Enisi along with hundreds, maybe even thousands of people were abducted. After a few minutes, Tommy 
 wakes up to find him Jen and his grandfather are prisoners in an alien space craft. Tommy manages 
 to get free and is set out to take on anyone in his path of finding his girlfriend and grandfather.
 
  
  3. The Character
  
  Tommy: A single garage mechanic on his home reservation, Tommy dreams of bigger things. He wants 
 to venture out into the bigger world, away from his family and roots. But his girlfriend, Jen, 
 wants to stay, to build her life here. Tommy doesn't understand what she loves so much about living 
 on a reservation. More than anything, he wants her to leave this place behind and see the world 
 with him.
  
  Jen: Jen runs the Roadhouse bar, a popular watering hole for the locals. She is also the love of 
 Tommy's life, though he's sometimes too bullheaded to see that. Jen loves Tommy, but she loves 
 her home and her heritage as well. She wishes Tommy would embrace his ancestry and understand why 
 it means so much that he be who he is.
  
  Enisi: Tommy's only link to his bloodline, Enisi is Tommy's grandfather and teacher. Enisi has 
 much wisdom to bestow upon his grandson but Tommy must first open his heart and open his mind to 
 the way of old.
  
  4. The Graphics 8/10
  
  The graphics in Prey are really good. With the same engine use as that of Doom 3. Good character 
 design with great looking but also disgusting creatures and background effects. The Background 
 effect are really something. Being able to see earth from inside a space craft is really cool.
 
  
  5. The Game-play 6/10
  
  The game-play, well it is like most 1st person shooter, you can run, jump and crouch but definitely 
 not the best. You run about using living alien weapons which I have to say, are not all that great. 
 I thought it was cool that the weapons were alive but it's not something we haven't seen before 
 anyway. You don't really have a good choice of weapons to choose from. Hunter Rifle which is just 
 like an ordinary rifle that has a scope so you can use it as a sniper rifle. Spider grenades which 
 is quite funny. A shotgun which fires aced at your enemy's. A rocket launcher. The leech gun which 
 is a unique weapon whose ammunition is found within energy nodes located throughout the alien craft. 
 There are several types of energy nodes, fire, ice and lightning which I thought was quite cool, 
 but still nothing great. Another weapon you have is Spirit Walk, where you can run around as a 
 spirit so you can reach and go places you normal body can not, but when your in spirit mode, your 
 body is left behind for the time being, so you have to make sure you don't leave your body somewhere 
 were the enemy can hurt you. As for the aliens, there A. I. is not all that exciting. Some of them 
 would just stand in the one spot shooting at you and it's very easy to dodge there attacks and 
 take them down. The game-play is not much of a challenge because you can not die. If you do die 
 you are then taking to the spirit world where you have to shoot spirit to get you life back. Even 
 if you don't shoot any you still come back to life with a small amount of health. The game-play 
 may sound good to you, it did for me when I read about it but when it finally came to me playing 
 it, I find that it wasn't really as good as I thought it would be. 6. The Sound / Effect / Voice 
 5/10
  
  The sound effect in Prey is good. Some scary and disturbing noises but nothing as scarier or as 
 greater as Doom 3. The music soundtrack is ok I guess but again nothing to really set the mood. 
 The voice acting I thought was terrible. Ok maybe not terrible but it was disappointing. 7. Life-Span 
 7/10
  
  The game should last you about ten hours. It is the easy 1st person shooter even. Even on hard 
 mode.
  
  8. My Over-All Say 7/10
  
  I thought Prey started of really well. But I think it's the game-play that let it down for me. 
 That fact you can't die never really set much of a challenge for me. At some points in the game 
 I just lost the motivation to dodge attacks, even at boss battles. What the point, there is no 
 game over. Just go from A to B and that it. After I got half way though the game I got really bored 
 with the game-play and Tommy stupid voice lines. I didn't even have the will power to explore the 
 space craft. The game is quite disturbing and sickly done. You see kids getting tortured, which 
 I can think if I've ever seen something like that in a game before. There are a few sad moments 
 in the game which I kind of liked but nothing really to make the game great. So over-all Prey is 
 a good game but not the best 1st person shooter. If your looking for a good scary 1st person shooter, 
 I recommend Doom3 or F. E. A. R.
  
  Simon. ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Score Mark
  
  10  Bloody Amazing
  9  Brilliant
  8  Great
  7  Good
  6  Okay
  5  Above Average
  4  Below Average
  3  Awful
  2  Crap
  1  Rubbish
  0 
  Terrible 
::::::

::::::
UserName: efrench9
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 16, 2007 6:41 pm PT
Review:  I played this game at 8pm one night and almost had it beat by the next morning at 10am. I had a 
 lot of fun and at some points I was so tired I stumbled on the puzzles but overall it's an enjoyable 
 ride and not too difficult for those who don't normally play FPS games. Not to mention it is worth 
 about 600+ gamer points! lol. I would say rent it and beat it and you will forget it soon enough 
 but it is a balanced playable game with some brilliant elements in it. Just don't expect a deep 
 meaningful epic ride through space and time and you wont be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RelXe
Rating: 7.2
Date: Aug 5, 2007 8:47 am PT
Review:  Prey.... when i first saw it i thought; Not another doom shooter... Graphics just look all the 
 same just like quake etc. Then a few months later it was in the stores for about... 15 dollars 
 so i though what the heck.. ill just try it.
  When i started out it all looked good but then when i saw i was an indian i was like &iquest;: S 
 ok... After that those 2 guys at the bar want to attack you and you smash them up with this plummer 
 and i still was like... ok...
  Then this weird classic beam me up scotty comes by and i'm like.. well ok that looks pretty... 
 ok...
  And then the shooting..... and i still was like... ok....
  I could go on and on but it's just an ok game, nothing more nothing less.
  The only cool thing 
 about the game is the portals, thats something i'm really looking forward too with Half-Life 2 
 the Orange box :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FatPipe
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jul 23, 2007 10:58 am PT
Review:  Prey is a throwback to what FPS were 5 years ago and really very little new to the table.
  
  Gameplay:
  Girl in trouble.... must rescue girl.... kill aliens.... fight nasty boss guy who 
 captured girl.... end of story. That is pretty much it... throw in the headaches caused by playing 
 upside down and you have summarized Prey.
  
  I like the concept of using all the space in a room by making that room move and playing from the 
 ceiling, etc. but at times by brain didnt like it so much.
  
  The weapons were standard and I must admit I did like the ability to sneak around using Spirit 
 Walk. This made it nice to run into an area just to check out the scene and then instantly go back 
 to where I was. The designers tried to create situations with puzzle like options, but no real 
 challenges came up during my gameplay. The ability to jump into a mini ship and fly around was 
 one saving grace for this title. Graphics:
  Nothing to write home about... decent, ran it maxed out and never had a glitch or crash so the stability 
 was good.
  
  Storyline:
  Wow, I just dont get the bad acting in all of these games. You think of all the talent involved 
 in making a game and you would think they could grab some B-rated actor in CA and get a half way 
 decent job of voiceover. But no can do... people often say I could do a better job and its not the 
 case. Here, I could have honestly played the role better myself and I would do it for free.
  
  For $20 the game was well worth it. But dont sacrafice playing any other titles for this game... keep 
 it in your back pocket when there is a lack of something better to do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Farscape1812
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 15, 2007 3:48 pm PT
Review:  When I read the premise for this game I will have to admit, I was not very interested. Even after 
 the few people I had talked to gave it good reviews. It took me awhile to try it out. After the 
 opening scene, I was still not impressed until I got past the first level, then I was hooked, and 
 have become a Prey fan.
  
  I found it to be very entertaining. With the way it took using portals to getting around, and the 
 way it dealt with gravity, I found myself loving this game.
  
  I would recommend this to anyone looking for a FPS to play. Well worth playing! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EG_Ghost
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 14, 2007 6:12 am PT
Review:  It is truly a great game, especially in the beginning, When the discovery the weapons and your 
 discovery. It contains some scenes influential For example, when Jen killed &amp; When they killing 
 grandfather. Whatever I said, I can not describe this wonderful game.
  Of course the gamehave a big difference between the game on computer and Other organs Games such 
 as XBoX in grapgics and sounds But this was not the fundamental flaw of the game....
  The puzzles of the game was also easy Forgoer, it need Time to think to reach a solution....
 
  I am really love this game. I hope to have other parts of this game soon... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mwruger
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 12, 2007 4:54 pm PT
Review:  Interesting story with some game mechanics that make this a good choice for someone who has never 
 played an FPS before. The inability to die would help ease newbies into the game and the story 
 would help keep them there.
  
  For longtime players like myself the portal and gravity shifts were a nice touch. Play could have 
 been longer and difficulty should have been ramped up a little earlier. I enjoyed the Amerindian 
 touches and thought the look of the game well done.
  
  It was obvious from the playable scene at the end of the credits that a sequel is planned and I 
 would love to see a sequel that addresses some of the problems but keeps the same feel and tone 
 of story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PuRe_CaNaDiaN_
Rating: 7.1
Date: Jul 6, 2007 12:22 am PT
Review:  Prey is a first person shooter boasting portals and gravity gimmicks that will mess up your brain. 
 You play as Tommy, a Cherokee Indian that begins his journey in his reservations bar with his 
 girlfriend, Jen, and his grandfather. While Jen claims to be of Cherokee blood, I would just like 
 to say now that she is wrong and actually hails from Middle Earth. Puzzle solving and fighting 
 are the two main activities you partake in on your journey through Prey. The levels are extremely 
 linear, so dont expect to do a lot of exploring. While the puzzles are unique thanks to spirit 
 walking, the awesome portals and nauseating gravity effects, none of them are particularly challenging 
 and are just a matter of finding a switch and placing your body in the right place. There are definitely 
 lots of interesting uses of the gravity and portals, but it never feels that they are used to their 
 full effect. The gunplay in Prey is unfortunately dull. Just strafe and hold the trigger against 
 any enemy, and you should be fine. There is no need to utilize cover, take careful aim or flank 
 the enemy. It doesnt help that the enemy A. I. isnt particularly interesting either. The smartest 
 thing an enemy does is not chasing you into traps, but at the same time they dont take that moment 
 to find their own cover. Other than the basic grunt, the rest of the enemies have a very aggressive 
 (if not suicidal) combat tactic. From the first fight to the last, the deaths are more entertaining 
 that the actual fights.
  
  If the developers had combined the two aspects of game play better, it would make for a much more 
 challenging game. Speaking of challenge, most of that disappears thanks to a forgiving death system. 
 Every time you die, you just go to the Land of the Ancestors and shoot some ugly bird-like spirits 
 to replenish your health. You then resume from exactly (or at least extremely close) from where 
 you left off. Since the enemies dont regenerate health or puzzles dont unsolve themselves, 
 you never worry about dieing and never really have intense saved by the skin of your teeth moments. 
 Prey is an easy game, making it more like an interactive movie than a challenging video game.
 
  
  Not only are the graphics amazing, but the artists do a great job of utilizing the technology. 
 Many of the coolest moments in the game are finding breathtaking views and somewhat comical levels. 
 The lighting, the textures, the models and the animations all look fantastic and flow without a 
 hitch. While the game has its share of mediocre enemies there a few bad guys that are impressive 
 to see and watch. The graphics do an excellent job adding to the cinematic feel of the game.
  
  The characters dont talk constantly, but when they do, both the script and voice acting is 
 superb. There arent any cheesy did he really just say that? moments and every word sounds convincing. 
 I especially enjoyed Tommys many quips that were well placed throughout the game. The in-game 
 music is pretty good. The tune selection at the beginning and the end of the game is fantastic, 
 while the stuff in the middle is merely mediocre. After Midnight Project does the credit music, 
 and after hearing it in Prey, Im going to find their CD.
  
  Sounds effects are okay, but nothing impressive. Sound is used well to inform you of certain events, 
 like when your gun is almost out of ammo, when a door wont open and a few other nice touches. 
 Some more satisfying explosions and splats would have been nice, but what was implemented was done 
 well.
  
  All the aesthetic details come together to deliver a pleasing environment and many memorable moments. 
 There are plenty of scenes that are unique and exciting and none are abused so that they become 
 old and repetitive.
  
  Like many movies, one play though Prey is enough. The game play doesnt warrant another easy trek 
 through, and there arent any choices to alter the story. However, that one time through is plenty 
 of fun. The story is great and isnt dragged out, but thats probably due to the short campaign. 
 I finished the game in 3 sittings totalling less than 10 hours. If youre looking for passive entertainment 
 on a slow weekend or have money to burn and are a fan of actions game, give Prey a try. If you 
 must choose your games wisely and make them last, you might want to skip this title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Isara14
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 5, 2007 1:15 pm PT
Review:  well firstly i must say that i've never really been a person who enjoys actiona games especially 
 on pcs. however, my friend really recommended this game to me as he said it was really good... at 
 first i didnt wanna buy it, but i did anywayz the first moment i was in the game, i was quite amazed, 
 by the graphics and the gameplay quality it offered... they were good enough to force me to keep 
 playin this game for many hours straight! the thrilling moments kept me thrilled enough to want 
 to keep playing, to see what happens next. i'm not done with the game yet, but i promise i will 
 soon! the sound quality could have been improved a little more i think, but everything else is 
 just at its amazing quality if ur deciding whether u should get this game or not, trust me, get 
 it... u wont regret later for sure, i can guarantee that 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flclempire
Rating: 6.6
Date: Jun 27, 2007 5:52 am PT
Review:  This game, like most modern games, has tons of potential and such but kinda fizzles out towards 
 the end. The story was pretty good, the graphics are excellent, and the sounds is a-ok, but the 
 game is way too short! There were so many cool things in the game but there could've been so much 
 more. You play as an indian guy (cool ^^) who gets abducted by aliens with his grandfather and 
 his girlfriend. Now you must rescue your gal :D
  The story is pretty generic but filled with lots of little interesting things that spice it up, 
 especially the final ending. The multiplyer is playable but there are never many people playing 
 at any time so there no point really
  
  Overall if you can find it for 20 or less you may as well purchase it, but go into it not expecting 
 too much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kaidevia
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 24, 2007 7:53 pm PT
Review:  sci-fi / horror first person shooters have been done and done again all the way back to the original 
 doom games and beyond so it's a hard genre to freshen up. Prey actually succeeds. It is fresh and 
 intriguing and most definitely scary at times, if not downright horrifying. Some of the initial 
 scenes when you are first taken aboard the alien vessel are both gruesome and somewhat impressive. 
 It brings to mind a little of the newer release of war of the worlds with humans being harvested 
 without directly copying the events in the movie. Anyway, i think this game has been seriously 
 underrated, the characters are solid and evolve throughout and the back story is strong enough 
 to keep you trying to get these people through the horror.
  Gameplay can get a little samey at times but the innovations in weapons, scenery and plotline more 
 than make up for this. It is a solid game and a i defy anyone to play it and not actually care 
 about getting through the nightmare the character is trapped in. i would say it is definitely worth 
 a look at. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EcksBocks360
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 21, 2007 12:31 am PT
Review:  Many First-Person shooters in the last 10 years seem to deliver the same experience time and time 
 again: Run. Shoot. Watch end credits. Because of this typical concept that everyone expects from 
 a game like Prey, it's very hard to make a shooter stand out. But there are a few select shooters 
 that have truly stood out from the general chunk of otherwise uninnovative games. Many of these 
 classics include Doom, Duke Nukem 3D, Quake, and a few others. Now, a new title is about to enter 
 that rare mix, and that folks, is Prey. Prey puts you in the role of Tommy, a Native American man 
 who is living on a reservation with his Grandfather and his Girlfriend, Jen. The three are chilling 
 out in the bar in which Jen works one night, and all of a sudden they hear loud noises outside 
 the bar. Then, the roof of the bar tears off the building, and the three get abducted into what 
 seems to be an alien ship. Tommy gets separated from his Grandfather and Jen, and has to go on 
 a mission to find both of them. Meanwhile, his Grandfather is communicating with Tommy telepathically, 
 and gives Tommy an ability used by his ancestors: Spirit Walk. with this ability, Tommy can exit 
 his body as a spirit for a time, and return at will. This ability will help him get through the 
 ship's security system, and help him with combating the ship's guard, with the help of a Cherokee 
 bow that Tommy has while in spirit form. While Tommy is back in his physical body, he can use the 
 various weapons he finds around the ship. Many of these weapons work and somewhat look like organic 
 versions of everyday weapons, like machine guns, shotguns and grenades. Another great thing about 
 Prey that makes it so innovative, is the fact that Gravity can easily change at any point in the 
 game, For example, there are these special pathways that go along walls and ceilings that you can 
 walk on, and there are small planetoids that float in the middle of rooms, and when you get close 
 enough to them, you can walk around them. While I really like this game alot, there are some things 
 wrong with it, because it sure aint perfect. One thing is that the game lacks challenge. When you 
 get killed by one of the aliens on the ship, The game takes you to this Spirit World where you 
 have to use the Cherokee bow to battle evil spirits. Once you've battled enough of them, you can 
 return to the point you were at when you died. While this seems like some kind of horrible gimmick, 
 it actually works very well and makes the game more fun, dispite it making the game very easy. 
 Another thing bad about the game is the way the weapons feel. The sound effects they each make 
 kinda sound awkward, but at the same time, they make for unique and GOOD awkward weapons, 'cause 
 remember, these ARE alien weapons we're talking about... The graphics in Prey are nothing short 
 of spectacular. The game uses a modified Doom 3 engine, which gives it cool bump-map tetures, perfectly 
 designed lights and shadows, neat scripted effects, smart enemy AI, and a decent physics engine. 
 On the Xbox360 version of the game, the framerate can drop signifigantly during certain parts of 
 the game, meanwhile, if you have a medium-spec PC or better, the game runs absolutely flawless. 
 Prey is definately a classic in FPS history, because it's unique plot, gameplay, graphics, and 
 just overall best quality. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gf11speed
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 20, 2007 6:54 pm PT
Review:  Gamespot's review of Prey is absurd. Human Head and 3D Realms did an incredible job with this game. 
 Everything from the excellent storyline to the game's look and feel was polished to perfection. 
 The game play coupled with the storyline kept me on the edge of my seat wanting more. In fact, 
 it was as if I was reading a sci-fi action thriller and could not put it down. I bought this game 
 at Circuit City for $15 and must say it is the best $15 I could have spent. Keep making great games 
 Human Head/3D Realms...
  
  The bottom line: There is no doubt that I highly recommend this game. There are a lot of wow moments. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ralfyboy
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 17, 2007 12:51 am PT
Review:  Positives: Cool weapons. Engaging storyline. Creative puzzles. Hard enemies. Improved Doom 3 Engine. 
 Spirit realm!
  
  Negatives: Too short (Not that a bad a negative to have huh?) .
  
  The single-player campaign is fun. It's short, but it rarely gets boring or tedious along the way. 
 I can't wait for a sequel because this game was solid, but there were a few things I thought that 
 could have been better. One example would be some of the story elements. The story is actually 
 pretty good, but it seemed like some events were rushed and parts of the story weren't fully fleshed 
 out. No major problems, just me being picky.
  
  The MP game is alright. I really didn't feel compelled to put a lot of hours into it though. With 
 games like BF2 and CS, Prey's multiplayer component seems mediocre.
  
  Final Judgement: If you can find this game for cheap (I think it's only $20 or so now for PC) , 
 I say it's worth a purchase. This game deserves at least run one through. You might even think 
 about a second time through on the harder unlocked difficulty. It's nice when you find a game, 
 such like this, developed by people thinking outside the box and not by those trying to sucker 
 you into buying an updated version of the same game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sytzepunk
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jun 10, 2007 4:37 pm PT
Review:  Prey is a Sci-fi FPS with interesting concept, but its package is wrapped like any other Sci-fi 
 FPS, it isn't as good as other games in it genre like Quake 4 and UT04, but still is interesting 
 enough if you liked the demo.
  
  Story:
  In Prey you play as Tommy, the opening of the game will look pretty epic, with you and your friends 
 being sucked into a spaceship and being placed in a alien-pod to let you see the capabilities of 
 the Doom 3 engine as your rollercoaster ride will show you some neat eyecandy.
  
  There has to be something with you and you're past, the game has brief cutscenes where you wander 
 in a old wild-west themed area with you and you're indian grandfather, I don't know about this 
 either, its rather weird.
  
  Gameplay:
  Interesting concept, there are a few neat things in the game while it still blatantly snatches 
 most of them from other games, there are somekind of gravity-changing paths, where you'll walk 
 on glowing paths and you'll stick to them, so you'll be running and gunning on the walls, there 
 are somekind of shooting-pads, if you shoot at them they'll change the gravity of the room.
  
  There are portals, which are basicly doors since they'll just indicate where you need to go 
 further on.
  
  There isn't a wide variety of weapons and monsters either, the weapons on the other land has different 
 ammo, like with one certain ammo you shoot normal bullits, and with a other pair of ammo you'll 
 shoot laserbeams, the problem is that you can't switch back to the ammo you previously had.
  
  There is somekind of mechanism called spiritwalking, you'll basicly turn into a ghostly-fiend 
 of yourself, and you're equiped with the spiritbow who doesn't pack alot of damage, you'll mostly 
 be using spiritwalking to remain invisible or to go thru energy-barriers to open doors.
  
  If you die in the game after archieving spiritwalking, you'll fall in a new dimension where tormented 
 soul-birds scatter the sky, you'll use your bow to shoot them, by doing this you'll get more health 
 when returning back to your normal body, this means dying actually has a positive side.
  
  There are some puzzles, but most aren't really challenging, same counts for the enemies, most will 
 be killed with a few shots or just one shot to the head, the hitboxes of enemies seem bugged aswel, 
 you can shoot point-blank at something and it'll count as a headshot, idk.
  
  Graphics:
  Stunning, the alienblobs never stand still and look slimy, architecture is familiar to Quake, and 
 enemies resemble something back to Doom 3 and Half-Life 2 (the dogs out Doom 3, Stalkers and Vortigaunts 
 out Half-Life 2) .
  
  Lightning is impressive though, but the effects of guns when they shoot lack somekind of punch 
 most Sci-fi shooters like UT4 have.
  
  Framerate will leave you alone at times, I have a high-end PC thats able to play Crysis and it 
 still lags out from some firebattles, but it rarely happens.
  
  Is it a good FPS:
  Lots of better FPS for this genre, if you liked the demo you might want to try the game out, to 
 bad nobody plays the multiplayer tho, would be interesting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Somini
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 30, 2007 6:39 am PT
Review:  I was so pleasantly surprised by Prey, I didn't think that it would be too good, since it's often 
 got mediocre reviews, but it's an awesome game.
  
  People looking for a challenging and deep FPS should be warned, this is not what this game is about. 
 A major focus in Prey is about not penalizing players for not being good enough, it's a very easy 
 game and you can't even die in it! (when your health runs out you're transporterd to a Cherokee 
 spirit world where you replenish your health and instantly gets thrown back into the action again) 
 A lot of people think that this is something very negative, but I would like to say that it's positive. 
 It gives the game a fantastic flow , which I think makes the game more immersive.
  
  There are other things about Prey that are awesome as well. The music is spectacular, I'm a big 
 fan of Jeremy Soule's work and he delivers a fantastic soundtrack yet another time, his music makes 
 the game feel more epic than most other FPS's. (except for Halo, which has the best soundtrack 
 ever in a FPS)
  
  There's also some moments in Prey that are fantastic. MAJOR SPOILER AHEAD: DO NOT READ IF YOU HAVEN'T 
 PLAYED THE GAME!!! I loved the moment when you encountered the main characters (Tommy) girlfriend 
 Jen, when she'd been turned into a grotesque monster. The first 75% of the game you spend trying 
 to find Jen and I really started to care about that cute indian girl. Then she's turned into a 
 monster by the aliens and you have to fight her. When she's defeated, she's pleadging Tommy to 
 kill her by giving her a finishing shot in the head. I actually had a hard time doing this, I even 
 got a little bit moist in my eyes. I love these kind of emotional moments in games and I got some 
 serious goosebumps from this scene. END OF SPOILER.
  
  I would like to recommend Prey to anyone who want's to have some fun, there's no excuse for not 
 playing Prey anymore, since it's so cheap everwhere at this moment. (I got it because it was cheap, 
 $20) OK. Prey is a very short game, I finished it in 7-8 hours, but those 7-8 hours were great 
 and it's also extremely easy, so a lot of people will think that it isn't hardcore enough, but 
 it's their problem if they don't wan't to play a great game for such a silly reason.
  
  Prey is a great roller-coaster ride, I highly recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jcohenx
Rating: 5.3
Date: May 29, 2007 12:04 pm PT
Review:  I just finished playing Prey, the sci-fi FPS from Human Head Studios and 3D Realms. In this game, 
 one of a long list of sci-fi FPS games released in the past 2 years, the environment and story 
 are a fresh change from the other recent titles but unfortunately the game play and low difficulty 
 limit its potential to compete against the other titles in what is rapidly becoming an overcrowded 
 genre.
  
  Prey is played from the point of view of Tomasi, or Tommy as he is known by his girlfriend, a 
 Native American living on the Cherokee reservation in the southwestern United States. Tommy is 
 restless and looking to leave the reservation with his girlfriend, Jen, but Jen and Tommys grandfather, 
 Enisi, are bound by tradition and their family ties to remain on the land of their fathers. As 
 you can imagine, everyones plans are thrown literally up in the air when space aliens abduct them 
 and they are taken aboard an enormous alien vessel with plans to harvest all life on Earth. The 
 object of the game is, of course, to escape captivity and defeat the alien invaders. Along the 
 way, Tommy learns that he possesses supernatural powers granted him by his Cherokee forefathers 
 and he also learns more about the importance of his cultural heritage.
  
  The alien technology is an integration of organic and inorganic components. Weapons in the game 
 are all somewhat biological in nature. Holding them in your hand you can see them squirm and move 
 on their own but they comprise a typical range of weaponry from long range laser rifles to shotguns 
 that fire acid to high power energy weapons that can be loaded with up to 3 different types of 
 ammo. Spare ammo is found throughout the ship as well as health power ups to heal wounds (more 
 on this later) . One weapon is a little absurd. There are multi-legged creatures running about the 
 ship that can be used as grenades by ripping off a leg and hurling the body at an enemy. These 
 same critters can be loaded into a grenade launcher and fired for distance. One would think that 
 an alien race capable of interstellar travel would have learned that keeping explosive space cockroaches 
 on board is just asking for trouble. Dont they have the equivalent of roach motels in space? On 
 a similar note, I found that dispatching most aliens is not that difficult even with low end weaponry. 
 Most of them do not take advantage of natural cover effectively and those that do are fairly predictable. 
 The aliens biggest strength seems to come from the element of surprise.
  
  Beyond the use of weapons found aboard ship, Tommy learns that he possesses a supernatural power 
 that allows his spirit to temporarily leave his body but still act on physical objects in the game. 
 This is especially useful for getting past force fields and looking around corners. Of course, 
 spirit walking leaves the body vulnerable to attack. By itself, this would be a nice addition but 
 the fact that Tommys spirit can penetrate force fields but not doors or walls seems counter-intuitive 
 to me. Tommy also has access to a magic bow when spirit walking that can be used against enemies 
 both physical and spiritual in nature, which brings me to the biggest problem I have with this 
 game.
  
  All through the game, Tommys health level can be reduced to zero in a number of gruesome ways, 
 from falls to alien weapons to getting eaten or incinerated. But Tommy cannot be really killed 
 in this game. Instead, when Tommys health falls to zero, you enter a spirit realm where one can 
 regenerate both physical and spiritual health before being thrown back into the body no more than 
 10 seconds before the time of death. At the beginning difficulty level (the only difficulty level 
 available at the beginning of the game) , this death and resurrection cycle can be repeated indefinitely. 
 In other FPS games, death requires one to restart the level at the last saved point. This could 
 be 30 minutes earlier depending on when the last save occurred. As a result, in Prey there is no 
 real penalty for getting killed. Combined with the fact that game play is extremely linear with 
 no real side-missions at all, this only serves to rush players through the game very quickly in 
 what is already a fairly short single-player campaign (Id estimate to be about 7-9 hours for an 
 experienced FPS player) . Combined with the ability to spirit walk, one can really storm through 
 levels without the need to be very cautious.
  
  One thing I definitely enjoyed in the game is the fact that the direction of the pull of gravity 
 is strongly dependent on where you are. There are many places where one can walk up vertical walls 
 onto ceilings and there are also rooms where the direction of gravity can be changed by activating 
 panels on the walls. Of course, the aliens can take advantage of this too so be prepared to think 
 in all 3 dimensions when under fire. Another feature not seen in many other games is the use of 
 portals to instantly transport from one place to another but this is an under-utilized feature 
 in the game in my opinion, amounting to not much else than magic doors to move from level to level 
 or room to room.
  
  The graphics in the game are solid but do not require high-end cards, which is nice for budget 
 gamers. I played this on a 2.6 GHz Pentium IV with an ATI Radeon 9800 Pro graphics card and 1Gb 
 of RAM without complaints. In addition to the single player campaign there is also a multi-player 
 mode where you can take your best shot against human players.
  
  Overall, the game lacks in the difficulty department so experienced FPS players that already finished 
 Doom III, Quake IV, or Half-Life 2, may want to wait until bargain bin prices for this one but 
 beginners will definitely enjoy it without feeling frustrated. Fortunately for the developers, 
 none of the problems associated with this game are technical in nature. At the end of the game, 
 after the credits roll, there is promise for a sequel so although I cannot give this game my highest 
 rating I am optimistic that if there is a sequel that they will sort through these problems to 
 release a higher quality product that I will be happy to play and review again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nozgrd74
Rating: 7.4
Date: May 26, 2007 10:44 pm PT
Review:  Prey would have been a great game but it just lacks a good story... i mean come on you're a random 
 native american on a reservation who gets abducted by aliens.................. yeah soak that in....
 
  
  Gameplay- Getting dizzy while running through portals is fun. In addition to the game seriously 
 lacking a decent story line the game also really lacks a challenge. This game is soooo easy... too 
 easy. When you die you turn into a spirit, then you simply fall in this hole to come back alive 
 to the exact point in which you die..... There is a unique and very neat feature in this game called 
 spirit walk, this is where you can turn into a spirit and leave your body to overcome some ingame 
 obsticles. It's neat..... and you get a bow.... but it gets a little repetitive. Graphics- graphics 
 are amazing... i was truly in awe when I played this game... everything looks awesome from character 
 models to the levels.
  
  Sound- some nice classic songs on the jukebox in the beginning is nice. Effects on the gun and 
 such sounds fine.
  
  Value- this game is definitely not a must buy, i wouldn't recommend it to anyone. It's not a terrible 
 game but I just don't think it's worth anyone's time to actually spend the money to buy the game..... Or 
 just wait until it's really cheap which it might be by now. I bought the game when it came out 
 so..
  
  Overall- too short, poor storyline even for an fps, and just not worth my 6 hrs beating it.
  
 
  that's another thing.... it will take you about 6 hrs to beat this game... so $30 bucks for a 6 hr 
 game... hmmm. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ronsplace68
Rating: 9
Date: May 25, 2007 9:44 pm PT
Review:  I agree that this game was easy, had few weapons and monsters, was silly at times but I had fun, 
 fun, fun. It reminded me of Duke Nukeum on some level. Yes, the game did not live up to all expectations, 
 but it was the little things that made the game fun. Art Bell taking calls was great, having to 
 make difficult choices was unexpected, and I liked the bird.
  
  I liked the look of the game too. The colors were great and made the game more interesting. The 
 native american theme was fun too. Yes the story line we have seen on TV, in a different form, 
 a women running the show too, but once again I had fun, fun, fun. Sometimes you just want to have 
 a bit of fun, and this game was. I have been playing RPG's the last year, and this was a nice change 
 of pace, especially after Silverfall with all it's bugs. I had to think a bit but not much and 
 the action was well paced. the puzzles did not distract from the game as some due. It wasn't Half 
 Life 2 but it is worth playing. I am looking forward to Prey 2. It was short. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Encell
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 23, 2007 4:32 am PT
Review:  A ridiculous story of indian man is abducted, finds his spiritual beliefs and saves the world is 
 odd, but.... eh...... you don; t play a game like Prey for the story really do you? Its not even 
 mentioned on the back of the DVD case. The focus is shooting the heck out of aliens using stangely 
 familiar weapons and having a good time doing it.
  
  For the most part, Prey plays like every other sci-fi FPS: shoot-strafe-quiet bit- new guns-shoot 
 etc. Its samey but then again it's always fun isn't it? The weapons in Prey may look odd, but each 
 one acts like your something in your standard FPS arsenal; crappy melee weapon, rifle, shotgun, 
 sniper, rocket launcher, grenade, SMG. There are more futuristic weapons as well- like the leech 
 gun which can drain energy from supplies around the ship, giving it a total of 3 individual ammo 
 types to choose from. The best one comes near the end of the game but for the majority it'll be 
 a globby laser or freezer gun. Another weapon is also available, in a state called spirit walk 
 . The protagonist, Tommy has been blessed with special indian powers (despite his whole I don't 
 go for that **** thing) which allows him to move his spirit around independant from his body, in 
 this form you use a bow and arrow, which uses the souls of enemies as its ammo source. They aren't 
 amazingly powerful but enough to 1 hit kill an alien grunt from behind. Spirit walk also grants 
 you invisibilty towards the enemy, lets you reach new areas and allows you to complete certain 
 puzzles that can't be done in body alone. Its a nice feature and can be useful for sneaking up 
 on enemys or scouting ahead of yourself .
  
  One of Prey's best unique features is occurs when your dead. Yup. When you die, you get reincarnated 
 with more health and spirit power at the spot you snuffed it and all thanks to the indian spirit. 
 You have to kill a few seconds in the afterlife beforehand but the effect is like reloading a game 
 at the time of death so you don't have to repeat anything. It's brilliant, and keeps the game moving 
 all the time so you don't get pissed off by low health and difficult sections.
  
  The gravity changing is fun fo a bit, if a little disorientating; though not revolutionising gameplay 
 it adds some interest to the standard play-on-one-level factor as you can be shooting the badly 
 voiced aliens who are below (or is that above?) you on what should be the REAL floor of the room. 
 Gravity also takes the form of glowing walkways- they just act as a physics-defying paths you can 
 walk on, though you can't jump whilst stuck to one as you'll just fall to the ceiling to your death. 
 The dimension Portals are just doors really, but they look very cool and are added near-seamlessly 
 into the environments. They can be found within boxes, special doors or just appear out of thin 
 air as enemys jump out of them. Nothing remarkable about their funciton but when you find a few 
 of these portals in one room you could walk into one only to find yourself walking straight back 
 into the same room out of the same one, or even end up looking through one to see yourself from 
 the side. Its wierd stuff.
  
  (I won't ruin the story, though it's not the best it'll be interesting to discover the truth as 
 you progress.)
  
  Prey. It's more fun than Doom 3, not as great as it could have been, has some features to make 
 it stand out and is a solid experience, if overall a little quick and easy to finish. Highly recommended 
 and for just &pound;5 you can't lose.
  
  Pros-
  
  Bought it for a fiver.
  No repetition and annoying deaths
  Cool dimension portals and messed up gravity
  A ghost bird 
 that translates alien language
  
  Cons-
  
  Short
  Looks a lot like Doom 3
  Generic brainless FPS action 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dark_being
Rating: 8.1
Date: May 17, 2007 4:54 pm PT
Review:  The Dark Harvest has began and our Cherokee friend Tommy is in a bit of a problem; he finds himself 
 on a huge alien spaceship, called The Sphere, during what seems to be an invasion. With nothing 
 but a wrench and the spirits and his ancestors by his side he decides to go and save his girlfriend 
 from the evil clutches of The Mother, a powerful alien entity, and maybe save the earth along the 
 way.
  
  Prey is a traditional First Person Shooter where you fight waves of alien creatures with a wide 
 arsenal of alien weapons, ranging from a simple rifle through a Leech Canon, that can shoot all 
 kinds of energy, and up to an Acid Gun, which acts a lot like a shotgun, only with acid cartridges. 
 The whole ship is a mish-mash of flesh and metal, even the enemies and weapons.
  Through the whole experience youll encounter a few new surprises in Prey, such as gravity altering 
 machines and catwalks which allow you to literally rotate the room and walk on the ceiling and 
 walls.
  
  The major difference in Prey is that the hero cant actually die; when Tommy suffers a serious 
 amount of damage his spirit transcends to the spirit-world where he will be able to recharge his 
 body with health and spirit-power.
  Tommys Spirit form (or spirit-walk as the game refers to it) is an essential part of puzzle solving 
 in Prey due to the fact that there are some barriers Tommys physical form cannot cross, and 
 the player is forced to use the spirit-walk ability to remove said barrier or to find an alternate 
 route.
  
  The Graphics in Prey are based on an improvement of the Doom 3 engine, and it shows; the game 
 looks great. The entire cast of characters moves in a realistic way, the environment really feels 
 like a genuine spaceship and even the weapons have a slick and solid look to them.
  Along the game there are more then a few moments where you are surrounded by enemies and a lot 
 is taking place on the screen at the same time, but the game never slows down and the action is 
 always fluent and immersive.
  
  The sound is where the game truly shines. All the characters are well voiced and the in-game score 
 is amazing, pulling you right into the battle and not letting you go until every enemy lies dead.
 
  There are a few licensed songs inside the game (mostly in the Jukebox at the beginning) and they 
 are quite fitting to the spirit of the game.
  
  So if you are a fan of First Person Shooters, or just looking for a nice game for the summer, Prey 
 is a worthy experience with a few cool new tricks up its sleeve. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fs_metal
Rating: 8
Date: May 13, 2007 9:56 pm PT
Review:  PREY
  By: Fs_Metal
  Game title: PREY
  Genre: First Person Shooger
  Platform: PC and X-Box 360
  ESRB Rating: Mature
  Developer: Humanhead Studios and 3D Realms
 
  Release date: July 11, 2006
  Overall rating: 8/10
  
  Prey has what is probably the longest developement time in the history of games. It was first introduced 
 more than 10 years ago. It impressed many people with it's promised innovations and eventually 
 vanished. It was picked up years later by Humanhead Studios with many of the original innovations 
 still in tact. Well, in July of 2006, the game finally saw the light of day. With 10 years of hype 
 an d expectation on it's shoulders, would the game fall flat or stand tall?
  
  Gameplay - 8.5
  
  With it being a first person shooter, you know what to expect. As you progress 
 through the game, you will obtain bigger and more powerful weapons. AS you obtain bigger and more 
 powerful weapons, you run across weapons that get progressively harder to take down, and more of 
 them to fight off. PREY does follow this typical format. However, it also has various innovations 
 that break the typical first person shooter mold.
  
  First off, the game introduces pathways where gravity can be controlled. This means that you can 
 walk wherever hte pathway leads. If it leads onto a wall or the ceiling, you walk on the floor 
 or the ceiling. This also means that enemies can walk on the wall to your left or right or above 
 you. This takes some getting used to, especially when you are attempting to figure out where you 
 are being shot from. Once you get used to it, it is actually fairly cool. There are a number of 
 puzzles in the game that require this gravity control to solve them. Most of them just involve 
 shooting a gravity control panel to transfer to the ceiling to get over a large pit or something 
 similar. While this is a cool innovation, it could have been better implemented than this.
  
  PREY also has an innovation called Spirit Walk that is my personal favorite. Spirit Walk essentially 
 allows your spirit to leave your body. When in this mode, you get a bow called the Spirit Bow which 
 you can use to kill enemies. It is a fairly powerful weapon and can kill many enemies in hone hit. 
 However, your arrows for it are limited to how much energy your spirit has. With each shot, your 
 spirit's energy drains a bit. You can increase it by taking the spirits left behind by enemies 
 you kill. For the most part, Spirit Walk is used for puzzles, which is a cool idea. However, it 
 is, again, mostly used for extreme simple puzzles. The majority of them are as simple as using 
 spirit walk to walk through a forcefield and turning the forcefield off so that your body can walk 
 through it. As cool as this innovation is, it could have used better implementation than that. 
 http://img. photobucket. com/albums/v626/fsmetal/prey-2006-07-18-15-36-01-71. jpg
  Spirit Walk
  
  There are also portals in this game. Portals are nothing new, but in this game, 
 you can see everything that is on the other side of the portal. This is really cool. You can see 
 enemies and plan out your attack before you enter the portal. You can also shoot THROUGH the portal, 
 which allows you to shoot enemies in another room before you are even in the room. This is extremely 
 well done and very cool. It is also very useful at times.
  
  Last, but not least, there is another innovation called Deathwalk. When you die, your spirit leaves 
 your body and enters the otehr plain of existance (or whatever you would like to call it) . While 
 you are there, you shoot these creatures that fly in circles arround you to gain your life back. 
 Red creatures gain back your life, and blue rays gain back your spirit energy. You only have about 
 20 seconds to do so before you return to your body, though. While this is cool, it does mean that 
 it is technically impossible to get a game over once you obtain this innovation.
  
  The innovations are cool and are fun, but they are not extremely well implemented. They do raise 
 the gameplay score up about a point. The shooting itself is not all that exciting. It is fun, but 
 the enemies could be more fun to battle. Their AI isn't great. The gameplay is decent, but HAlf-Life 
 it is not.
  
  Graphics - 9
  
  PREY is built intoop of ID Software's Doom 3 engine, which, in the minds of many, marked the begining 
 of next gen, atleast for PCs. If you have played Doom 3 or Quake 4, then you know exactly what 
 to expect from this game. It looks fantastic. The level of detail is very high, and the lighting 
 effects, while not as good as they were on Doom 3, are excellent. The Doom 3 engine is, however, 
 showing his age, so, while this game does look very good, to doesn't look as good as something 
 like Gears of War. http://img. photobucket. com/albums/v626/fsmetal/prey_ss4. jpg
  Prey looks extremely good
  
  In alot of games now days now days, there is more to the graphics 
 than just how good it looks and it's level of detail. There is the art of the game, and this game 
 does have a distinct look. The look of this game is fairly morbid, however. The weapons are alive. 
 Many of the enemies look like they were assembled with technology and parts of various human and 
 alien creatures. The rooms are, quite often, similar. They are built out of living tissue and technology, 
 among other things. All of this leads to the game having what is probably an aquired taste. http://img. photobucket. com/albums/v626/fsmetal/prey-2006-07-17-15-44-47-98. jpg
 
  This weapon appears to have a type of face hugger attached to it.
  
  Sound - 8
  
  The sound in PREY is, overall, fairly good. The voice acting is decent, but not the best. Iti s 
 deffinitely passable, and it doesn't make you laugh or anything like that. There are many lisensed 
 songs in this game that you can listen to towards the begining of the game when you are in the 
 Casino. Among the tracks featured in this part of the soundtrack are
  You've Got Anotehr Thing Coming by Judas Priest and Cat Scratch Fever by Ted Nugent. All of these 
 classic tracks are fun and cool to hear in a video game, but they are pretty much only heard at 
 the begining of the game. There is one more lisensed track during the credits, but I could not 
 tell you the name of it.
  
  The music throughout the game is made up of various symphonic tracks from Jeremy Soule, whop did 
 music for Oblivion and Guild Wars. The soundtrack is notable, and can, on occasion, even feel epic. 
 All the music is perfectly placed and timed very well. Everything really helps to enhance the situation 
 and give everything a much more powerful feel to it. Mr. Soule did an excellent job here that is 
 surely on par with his work on Oblivion, which was also very good.
  
  Story - 7.5
  
  First person shooters are not generally known to have great stories, nor do they need to have them 
 to be great games. FPS games are all about the gameplay. That being said, there is a story in place 
 here, and it is not all that bad, if a little cliche. Everything starts out with reports on the 
 radio of strange lights being spotted all over Oklahoma and Texas (Just a side note, but I recognized 
 every single town name they mentioned in this game, and I have been to the majority of them) . Shortly 
 thereafter, the strange lights come to your Indian reservation. Tommy (the main character) , his 
 grandfather and his girlfriend are all sucked up by these lights and find themselves on a massive 
 alien sphere.
  
  The story takes off from here, and it spends most if it's time with you chasing after the girl. 
 Tommy finds himself loose on the alien sphere after a resistance onboard sets him free. As the 
 story plays out, you will run across various plot twists that are all fairly typical. There should 
 be no big surprises in store here, but the story is told fairly well. Although it is all told through 
 Tommy's eyes, he is not a typical silent protagonist that you see in many first person shooter 
 games. HE does talk, and he does have his own personality. He also changes as the unnatural world 
 around him affects him and everything begins to sink in. By the end of the game, he is not the 
 same man that he was at the begining of the game, so he does progress. This is nice to see in an 
 FPS, and I would not mind seeing it in future shooting games. His having more personality than 
 most other FPS leads may make it so that you can really get into the story more. On the other hand, 
 the silent protagonist kind of allows the player to make up their own personality for the character 
 and get into the world and it's story in this way. It all ends with the game setting itself up 
 for a sequel in what the developers hope to turn into a series. http://img. photobucket. com/albums/v626/fsmetal/prey01_tn. jpg
 
  Tommy looks upon himself
  
  Replay value - 7
  
  Prey is fun the first time through, but I do not see much point in playing it more than once. The 
 innovations are cool, but that is not enough to make you play through it more than once, really. 
 The story is, also, not good enough to warrant a second playthrough. The game is linear, so there 
 isn't a variety of paths that you can follow and, once you figure out it's few challenging puzzles, 
 there isn't much left for you to revisit. That being said, there is a multiplayer mode. IT is fairly 
 standard, but it will keep you playing it for a while. It won't replace Counterstrike Source any 
 time soon, but it is fun to play with a bit.
  
  Final Thoughts:
  
  With 10 years of hype an expectation built around this title, there is virtually no way for it 
 to live up the standards in the crowds of the PREY hopeful. The game is, by no means, a bad one, 
 though. Shooter fans should definitely give this one a play through. The innovations presented 
 in this game definitely make it worth playing. That being said, the innovations could have been 
 put to better use, and the enemy AI could be better. PREY promised alot. It delivered what it promised, 
 but not as well as people had hoped. This might result in it being a disappointment to many, but 
 don't overlook it. This IS a cool game, and it does have my recommendations. At about 15 hours 
 in length, one could probably fight their way through the entire alien sphere in a rent, so, if 
 you decide to not buy this one, atleast give it a rent. It is worth your time.
  
  Gameplay - 8.5/10
  Various gameplay innovations are not used to full potential, though they are 
 still cool. Enemy AI could be better ,but this game is fun
  
  Graphics - 9/10
  This game isn't the best looking game on the market, but it does look extremely good with a high 
 level of detail and the Doom 3 engine's trademark lighting effects
  
  Sound - 7.5/10
  Great lisensed tracks and a good musical score. The voice acting is decent, but not stellar. The 
 symphonic music is where this game shines.
  
  Story - 7.5/10
  A typical and straightforward story that is told well, and it throws a few interesting, if cliche, 
 things at the end. It leaves the game open for a sequel
  
  Replay Value - 7/10
  The game has multiplayer that is worth a look, but the single player mode is a one time through 
 thing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GameCrapper
Rating: 5.8
Date: May 8, 2007 3:39 pm PT
Review:  It's too bad, this could have been a good game. Not much challenge in it and it lacks a motivating 
 reason to finish it. It get's pretty mundane after a while. The Spirit Mode and Wall Walk features 
 in the game are great ideas, however, it's like the whole game rides on these features and it loses 
 substance because of it. It's like the whole challenge is to not get confused where to go in this 
 alien craft rather than use strategy to obtain a goal. I guess I will chalk this up to another 
 Painkiller or Manhunt, games I wish I would not have bought until they were $9.99, if at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mezzanne
Rating: 6.1
Date: May 5, 2007 5:36 am PT
Review:  I remember hearing about Prey back in 1997... that was a really long time ago. It's a game that's 
 sat stagnant for such a long time, and it kind of shows.
  
  Prey looks great , but quite honestly Quake 4 probably made the best use of this game engine... 
 and it runs pretty well too. Prey offers up some really cool ideas... LOTS of portals... in all 
 sorts of places, playing around with the concept of gravity, upside-down walkways and a spirit 
 mode ... these are all pretty cool ideas, but the problem with them is they don't really change 
 the core gameplay at all.
  
  The weapons are also unique , but that's basically because they look different. They can all actually 
 be translated into rife , shotgun , grenade and rocket launcher (which looks pretty damn cool though) . 
 And the game also features some brief vehicle bits, thankfully not too long, just about right.
 
  
  But the problem with Prey is that it's really not outstanding on any level that really means anything. 
 The actual level design is cool because of the additions listed above, but it's also horrible because 
 most of it is in organic alien doorways which feel way too much like Doom 3's... difference is, 
 Prey isn't meant to be a horror as such. The game is also really too easy and this takes the thrill 
 out of it somewhat... it's also short, but that's rather a good thing... much longer would have 
 been repetitive. Prey is not a bad game. But it's really something of a clone, so it's good to 
 pass some time with, but if you want a deeper FPS experience, I'd have to point you in the direction 
 of FEAR or Half Life 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doors69
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 28, 2007 8:19 am PT
Review:  you have the best FPS game in the house, you got blood, gore, alian, amazing soundtrack and the 
 graphics.... DAMN!!!
  at first sight it looks like anothe one of those FPS games but oncw you start you see that were 
 talking about somthing else, BUT, when you see the scene with granpa, well, there you go, all what 
 you'r gonna say is: I don't belive it, they are crazy, someone lost his mind! 
  that's right, that's what make a kick ass game! that is exectly what makes a game replayable again 
 and again, even if only to see again stuff you like there, and trust me you will.
  play it now!!! ASAP!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kippesd
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 27, 2007 2:59 pm PT
Review:  Prey is a short thrilling FPS that puts you in the shoes of a young, smart-allecky think you know-it-all 
 Native American just arriving at the (stereotype?) bar that his girlfriend works at. A couple of 
 good 'ol boys down at the end of the bar start harassing your woman with ethnic and sexist terms 
 whereupon your grandfather (who meanwhile is sitting at the bar trying to talk to you about your 
 heritage - which you rudely dismiss as tomfoolery) instructs you to go stick up for her. Another 
 cryptic message from your grandfathers about the 'elders' when all hell starts to break loose. 
 In a thrilling sequence brilliantly set to Blue Oyster Cult's 'Don't Fear the Reaper' UFOs start 
 abducting humans from Earth and wouldn't you know the bar your at is on their list?
  
  Gunplay issues aside (I'll get to that in a moment) what follows is a thrilling hero vs. aliens 
 ride that will take place in it's entirety aboard the alien ship. Don't worry if you're thinking 
 your environments will be constrained somehow because of this, this ship is gigantic. And by gigantic 
 I mean HUGE. Just to give you an idea without giving away any spoilers there is a sequence later 
 in the game where you hear the radio chatter of a panicked airline pilot asking where he is and 
 what's going on. Moments later a 747 comes thundering overhead to a resounding crash. Like I said, 
 entertaining moments like these just don't come along very often with the high slick production 
 values that Prey has. And boy, is it slick..
  
  If i could find any weaknesses with this game it would have to be it's length (finished in about 
 6 1/2 hours) and it's overall gunplay. The 'organic' alien guns you acquire throughout the game 
 look cool but lack a distinct toughness to them. The sounds lack a distinct pop to them as well. 
 But as odd as it sounds, the fact that this game is so well produced more than makes up for it. 
 Puzzles abound and with the added gimmicks of room flipping, wall walking, portal hopping goodness. 
 Some will have you entering the 'spirit' realm whereupon you can existentially leave your body 
 to reach previously unattainable places. They are not too easy as you will find yourself skipping 
 along yet they are not so hard as to frustrate you, Human Head Studios did a great job implanting 
 this feature and I hope to see much more of it in future games.
  
  The story and talent they got to voice the characters is excellent. Of special note is your character. 
 The actor who voiced him captures the emotions of the moment perfectly as you race against time 
 to save your captured girlfriend. Whether it's anger or hopelessness or resolve Prey does a great 
 job of sucking you in as you fight ever onward across literally miles of this ship.
  
  Though there are admittedly too few varieties of baddies in this game, they can be challenging. 
 You won't find superior AI with them flanking you but instead will find them popping out of portals 
 and flanking you.
  
  Don't believe the Gamespot review, sometimes I think reviewers get too critical (Roger Ebert syndrome) 
 and forget what 'entertaining' means - instead comparing things like gunplay to a F. E. A. R. and 
 dropping a score. Give Prey a chance and you will see what I mean. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talon124
Rating: 8.1
Date: Apr 20, 2007 10:43 am PT
Review:  This game tries to be a revolutionary game thing with extremly weird physics as u travel through 
 mind blowing portals and walk on every wall, ceiling floor available. But it fails. The guns r 
 quiet interesting but not cool or fun to use. Pretty original but the aliens just aren't scary. 
 Bloody, weird but not fun. Not enough things to kill and not enough effects. HL and HL2 added puzzels, 
 orginiality, physics, action and good atmosphere. Prey adds puzzles and some shooting on the way. 
 This game is more like a presentation to show how good game physics now r as u travel through portals 
 and stuff. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snfonseka
Rating: 6.3
Date: Apr 19, 2007 11:31 pm PT
Review:  This game is about an Indian called Tommy who is abducted
  by aliens (With his grandfather and girlfriend) . And Tommy
  manages to escape and now he must 
 save the rest of the planet.
  So now Tommy has to blasting away the aliens and keep moving.
  Well I don't think the story of 
 this game is a good one.
  It won't give any motivation to the player.
  Environment design in Prey is good and there are some new and
  fun features in Prey, for example 
 The Gravity Flipper (Which can
  change the direction of the gravity) . Another feature is The Spirit
  Walk which lets the player 
 to leaves Tommy's body, but as a spirit
  you still has to face several limitations such as gravity. So I think
  this is a useless feature. 
 When you die, you are sent to a world of spirits where you can fight with spirits and come back 
 to life with some health points. Basically you won't die in this game since you are able to come 
 back with enough health points (Even if you don't fight with spirits) .
  Finally, I think Prey can offer only few things to you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nelson_7700
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 16, 2007 4:05 pm PT
Review:  cool gameplay and graphics cool gameplay and graphics cool gameplay and graphics cool gameplay 
 and graphics cool gameplay and graphics cool gameplay and graphics cool gameplay and graphics cool 
 gameplay and graphics cool gameplay and graphics cool gameplay and graphics cool gameplay and graphics 
 cool gameplay and graphics cool gameplay and graphics cool gameplay and graphics cool gameplay 
 and graphics cool gameplay and graphics cool gameplay and graphics cool gameplay and graphics cool 
 gameplay and graphics cool gameplay and graphics cool gameplay and graphics cool gameplay and graphics 
  
 gameplay and graphics cool gameplay and graphics cool gameplay and graphics cool gameplay and graphics 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ufopuller
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 14, 2007 4:28 pm PT
Review:  The plot is a good one. The humans of earth will be harvested as food (protein) for an alien race 
 that have seeded our world and many others years ago (hence, Prey) . Tommy (the players character) 
 is a Native American Cherokee. Finding his girlfriend, Jen, is his only motivation to obliterate 
 the mothership. Since the story starts in a Texas bar, the player finds not only the bar transformed 
 into part of the ship, but also slot, poker, and black jack machines in various parts of the mothership. 
 What is left of the bar, in the mothership, even has music playing; Hearts Barracuda. Besides 
 what is left of the bar, a number of times Tommy is near a device that broadcasts Art Bells radio 
 talk show from earth. Everyone is calling poor Art about the lights in the sky and people being 
 abducted.
  
  There are eight weapons, many with duo-powers. Other than the wrench, all others are definelty 
 alien. The Leech Gun is the authors favorite. Imagine drawing heat, cold, electricity, or plasma 
 from wall outlets to recharge a weapon. Tommy also has access to shuttle pods that have rockets 
 and a tractor beam.
  
  The graphics are reminiscent of Doom 3, mainly because 3D Realms and Human Head Studios, I believe, 
 used a version of the same engine that runs Doom 3. The graphics are first class on the higher 
 settings. Colors and lighting are particularly in the Doom 3 style.
  
  There are some major difference between this game and other first-person shooters (FPS) games. 
 Gravity is a relative thing as Sir Isaac Newton laid out in our elementary physics. On the screen 
 whatever is up and the gamer can move forward is the gravity for that time. To change gravity, 
 one need only shoot a nearby green, diamond, wall or ceiling configuration to rotate what gravity 
 is in effect at that time in the gameplay. That takes some getting used to. Two other conditions 
 can alter what gravity is in effect and when. There are walkwalks. These look like lighted ribbons. 
 The player need only traverse the path of the walkwalk, thus walking up walls and upside-down on 
 the ceilings. Shooting enemy upside-down is not found in too many other games. The third way to 
 get flipped is by walking through a portal that has this action. Another difference is one will 
 never see, GAME OVER, during gameplay. Instead, when Tommy runs out of corporeal health, he is 
 sent to the spirit world, whereby shooting either red or blue spirits flying in a circle around 
 him, he can regain both corporeal or spirit health and return to the game about where he left. 
 Also, there is no USE key. Whatever Tommy is closest to either opens, activates, or works by 
 his presents. That took some getting used to. There are many tricky situations that require a great 
 deal of critical thinking. Codes to progress may be anywhere, even written on the floor in blood. 
 The author found it very difficult to progress, when there was no obvious path or mechanism to 
 proceed. How to proceed may be a matter of trial and error. Start shooting stuff sometimes works, 
 but maybe the gamer needs to be in the spirit form to make this strategy work? There are hints 
 in the literature that accompanies the game. The author highly recommends their use.
  
  Tommy can either be in corporeal form (human) or he can assume a spirit form (ghost) . The spirit 
 form can move through force fields and cross open spans by walking on spirit threads (these are 
 obvious by an 8-pointed sun in the proximity of the bridge) . There are many touch screen monitors, 
 which engage, disengage, activate, deactivate, varies components of the game. Tommy can take spirit 
 form, walk through forcefields, deactivate them, then return to corporeal form and proceed. How 
 to use the spirit form and when are big keys to completing this game.
  
  Overall the game was a real test, but a highly enjoyable one. The author would recommend this game 
 to those FPS players who want that challenge. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: REAL12
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 13, 2007 1:00 am PT
Review:  This game was pretty cheap at a best buy and I read some good reviews on it so I took a chance. 
 I wasn't to sure about the story and the graphics looked pretty standard, nothing special but cheap 
 is a great factor when taking a chance on a game. The gameplay is good, straight forward, the story 
 line is your typical save the girl kill the baddies story, everything about this game is standard 
 with a few exceptions being the native indian aspect to the game which was a neat way to take the 
 story and added the amusement of having cool ways to solve problems with the out of body experiences. 
 If you can get this game cheap go for it. Cool weapon graphics too but never enough ammo and inability 
 to carry more sucked! Non-regenerative spirit was annoying as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SabotFox
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 8, 2007 12:33 pm PT
Review:  Prey is a unique first-person shooter that brings new elements to the tried and true genre. You 
 assume the role of Tommy, a bitter Cherokee who is looking to flee the reservation and his heritage. 
 His plan is cut short when aliens invade and bring Tommy aboard their living spaceship, the Sphere. 
 Tommy escapes his captors and begins a desperate fight for survival. In the process, he is forced 
 to embrace the spiritual side of his heritage.
  
  Early on in the game, Prey pulls out all the stops and thrusts you into a whirlwind adventure, 
 preluded by a rather lengthy (and unskippable) story sequence. (Although I must admit that hearing 
 Blue Oyster Cults Dont Fear the Reaper when all hell breaks loose is very apropos.) As Tommy 
 explores the ship, he finds several rooms where gravity seems to run in all directions. Some of 
 these rooms can be rotated so that floors become walls, walls become ceilings, and so on. Other 
 rooms have magnetic tracks to allow Tommy to crawl all over the walls and ceilings (as long as 
 they ARE walls and ceilings, anyway) . He also must navigate his way through the ship with the use 
 of portals, which appear either as floating rings or inside boxes. Later in the game, as Tommy 
 learns more about his spiritual heritage, he is granted ethereal powers the are necessary to overcome 
 some of the obstacles in the Sphere.
  
  Cherokee mythos and gravity-twisting environs aside, Prey is much like your standard FPS, with 
 you maneuvering alone a linear path through the Sphere, sitting through a few mandatory story sequences 
 as you wreak havoc wherever you roam. Youll collect a variety of weapons from the aliens as you 
 go, and despite their organic nature and unusual appearance, youll find that they are just variations 
 of the standard FPS fare. Explosive bugs serve as grenades, there is a shotgun weapon that spits 
 acid, and there is a battle rife equipped with a sniper scope among other weaponry. Swapping weapons 
 requires a toggle of the bumpers, since you can carry all of Preys weapons at once.
  
  Prey features some fantastic backdrops, beginning in a grimy reservation bar and heading out to 
 the void of interstellar space with Earth hovering just out of reach. And what FPS would be complete 
 without a slew of cramped corridors? The character models are very lifelike, and the voice acting 
 is of adequate quality for this sort of game. Load times are a little slow (and caused my 360 to 
 freeze on several occasions) , but considering the sheer amount of graphical quality in each chapter, 
 this is understandable.
  
  Unfortunately, Prey doesnt offer much in replay value, since it is a linear story, but it is worth 
 experiencing at least once. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beckoflight
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 7, 2007 8:05 am PT
Review:  Prey took like 10 years to make ... but don't look down on him because its a great game that brings 
 something new to the FPS genre ... since the moment you enter the game you will begin to feel dizzy 
 because its another type of FPS that you aren't used to it will take you more than an hour to get 
 use to the puzzles &amp; the way the actions takes after that the dizzynes passes ... the story 
 of the game is just right i mean its still the same alien invasion but the fact is that we the 
 humans are their food &amp; they come to colect us as food every 1000 years something like that 
 &amp; the indians are te only 1ones who know of this &amp; developed special ways to prevent this 
 kind of stuff ... the game introduces very well the SPIRIT WALK wich helps you in puzzles &amp; 
 with some enimies the only thing that some players will hate is that you will never die its just 
 2 easy in case you die your soul must battle some ghosts &amp; in 1 minute your back in action 
 with almost full HP the weapons are nicely desings all squishy but they are kind of old-school 
 when you fire with them ... the voice acting is just right alltought its kind of sick to see your 
 grand-father die &amp; after 5 minutes you start laughing anyway its a fun game with a good ending 
 ... PREY WILL CONTINUE.. a NPC sad you will se afterall its deserves a sequel because its quite 
 good ... the DOOM3 engine has proven 1once more that its a powerfull engine that can evan compete 
 with next gen engines enjoy the game but ignore some sounds because they are quite bad especially 
 for your first weapon ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vecuf
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 5, 2007 5:07 am PT
Review:  It has feeling, good graphics, innovative stuff. Solid shooter.
  
  However, being in a strange alien spaceship with the purpose of rescue your girlfriend in one piece 
 and shoot everybody off seems to not be the smartest thing that your character (and by extrapolation 
 - the developers) be doing.
  
  This game is a very good shooter, but, why don't make it a masterpiece? I am thinking on some stealth 
 actions, some more evolved puzzles, more character interactions rather than keep shooting the same 
 brainless enemies (in fact, almost all of your opponents seems identical) that keep coming and 
 appearing from nothing in your way. A good story with twists and turns and more brain (artificial 
 brain intelligence) perhaps is what this game is mostly missing, however, it is remarkable well 
 done on the technical side. You should definitely try it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: firebladedx
Rating: 7.2
Date: Apr 3, 2007 1:40 pm PT
Review:  Before my review let me clear up something. the aliens dont speak English, you have a little spirit 
 hawk thingy which does it for you, because if you walk up to a sign, it will be in alien until 
 the hawk lands on it, so presumably the hawk verbally translates too.
  
  Ok to the review.
  Generally my first reaction to the game was WOW, the graphics look stunning. 
 I wasnt sure what to think because I had just completed farcry. The gameplay is ok, controls seem 
 responsive, AI is ok, but nothing special. The choice is vehicles is extremely poor though, the 
 vast majority of the time, you are driving round in this box ship which looks kinda boring and 
 the other vehicle you cant even see the outside off.
  A fair amount of weapons, nothing too unique though, basic FPS guns, with living features really.
 
  I must admit, i was disapointed at the lack of any defining guns (cerebral bore - turok 2) which 
 kinda made me disapointed.
  My main complain has to be, the fact the gay is WAY too easy, it took me just over a day to complete 
 but its soooooo easy. Whenever you die, you basically recharge ur stats in a archery range then 
 start right back where you died. Anyone who takes longer than 4 days of continous play to complete 
 this doesnt deserve the game.
  Overall id give it a firm 7, it was fun, but theres still a lot lacking. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: irxproductions
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 30, 2007 4:37 pm PT
Review:  Prey is built on the Doom 3 engine and Human Head Studios puts the engine to good use though, at 
 times, there was a huge sense of deja vu walking down dimly-lit hallways with monsters popping 
 out of nowhere. It's certainly been awhile since Prey was released which makes this review a little 
 dated but the reasons behind this delay add to the review -- I installed Prey shortly after receiving 
 it and then lost interest... quickly. I worked my way through a few levels and then just didn't 
 want to play anymore. Strange.
  
  Well, now I've played it through and have to say that it's a decent game. In Prey, you play a Native 
 American who is kidnapped by aliens with his girlfriend (and grandfather) to a giant, creepy spaceship. 
 The aliens work their way through the universe killing off species after species (using them for 
 food, experimentation, the regular alien fare) . Prey does an excellent job of setting the mood 
 with many spooky sequences and some strong gory sequences that truly make the player feel like 
 they're somewhere they shouldn't be.
  
  And then there's the portals and gravity-shifting. Those wacky Human Head developers realized that 
 first-person shooters could be made a whole lot more interesting if there was a way to literally 
 flip the map on the side. This is done with strange glowing buttons that you can shoot (or whack 
 with your wrench) and the screen will literally flip that direction. It makes for interesting puzzles. 
 Add to the mix the concept of portals that will open here, there, and everywhere and you've got 
 a very different game... for awhile.
  
  For some reason, as I worked my way through the game, the ingenuous puzzles, portal-work, and gravity-flipping 
 gave way to more typical mazes and boss-battles. I'm not quite sure what happened.
  
  Overall, I found Prey to be a very decent single-player game (the multiplayer is excellent but 
 I'll leave that to other reviewers since it's not my focus) . It's worth picking up for $19.90 at 
 GoGamer. com as it will keep you occupied for a somewhat determined weekend. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fyrephlie
Rating: 6.9
Date: Mar 25, 2007 7:33 pm PT
Review:  There's potential in the title, really. But for a company with such a great lexicon of titles under 
 their belts, their gimmicks fall pretty flat. First, I have to say that I appreciate a game that 
 tries to tell a story, and really, I know they were really trying not to make fun of Native American 
 people, but from the opening sequence, through the rest of the game, I feel almost embarrased to 
 be playing it. The graphics are pretty, but, of course they'be been done, since this does take 
 advantage of the older Doom 3 engine.
  
  The use of portals is a great concept, and when Valve releases Portals with Half Life 2 Ep. 2, 
 I bet we'll see how it's done. Prey, however, fails to take advantage of a great schema. They could 
 hae done it right, but they chose to rely on a linear level style so that you never feel you've 
 made a wrong turn. The biggest draw in this game for me was the 360DOF style gravity play. This, 
 I thought, would finally be a game that could show me what I've been missing since the old days 
 of Descent (actually, I still play D2 and D3, but, that's neither here nor there...) . However, 
 it really falls flat. Perhaps it's because I'm so used to getting turned around, but, there's no 
 challenge whether I'm hanging upside down on the ceiling or sideways on the walls. Challenge... 
 that's the next problem. There is none. Of course, I've come to expect the ability to breeze through 
 most first person shooter titles of late. It seems that companies are trying really hard to write 
 a story that comes off as cinematic, and they want people to be able to complete it instead of 
 giving up, that way you can see it through. I think it's similar to holding graduation ceremonies 
 when moving from one grade level to another in elementery school. It's catering to mediocraty. 
 Overall it's not a terrible game, but, it's not the pinnacle of joy you might have hoped for in 
 a game that was a decade in the making. I picked it up for $5 at Target... that seems reasonable. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tommankin
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 25, 2007 12:15 pm PT
Review:  Prey: Fun right out of the box. weapons are cool living moving and crawling different. good fsp 
 graphics are decent story line was different. Glad they decided to finish and release this one. 
 A must to have in the collection. difficulty is average for any beginner so it is a good game to 
 have when you have friends over. space scenes were great this game takes you there. You are in 
 the fight. my kids love it. Wonder if there will be a second one comming. Must finish the indian 
 ways. Spirit walk is way cool. Helps you alot during the game. If used right it will take you a 
 long way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pinhaldecoina
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 24, 2007 6:01 pm PT
Review:  this is great ,absolutly one of the great recent games released on pc, i have bought receatly stalker 
 end other one and what a disapointment it was ,but this one ,make me belive there are great companies 
 who take care of pcs, make more of this ones im here to buyit i hope they make prey 2 the ending 
 looks like there wil be the expancion or part 2 ,thats realy amazing grafics and great game play 
 the enimies are well design and cenarios will full dinamic light just hard to keep the mouth shout,,, my 
 machine cood run just fine this havy game... intel3.0 1giga ram 850 pro overclock 560 1120mem, just 
 flows,,, 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deathread
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 23, 2007 7:30 pm PT
Review:  This game is little bit underrated. It's very interesting with this innovative ideas like, wall 
 walking and shooting aliens that are under you while you are standing upside-down, ability to separate 
 spirit from the body and solve problems, and you can't die, so you don't need quick save. Graphics 
 are great here and the atmosphere is quite sick, weapons are good but enemies are always same (lack 
 of challenge) . Great alien solutions (moving through environment) are making more ambient than 
 action. Game is very easy and first you have to finish easier mode to play harder mode (stupid) . 
 It has defects and imperfections but it's still great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: whadzen
Rating: 7.9
Date: Mar 24, 2007 5:50 am PT
Review:  The game is not special or revolutionary because it uses the Doom3 engine we all know so well at 
 this point. The aliens using humans as resources plot has also been overdone. But I really did 
 not care about this. The graphics still look beautiful. The acting and plot are very well done. 
 The gameplay is just a lot of fun. I have really enjoyed this a lot more than I thought. The upside 
 down walkways, spirit walk and weapons did not dissapoint. Finally, the last 2 hours of play were 
 better than the game as a whole, it was visceral and satisfying (kinda how the WHOLE game should 
 have been) Now that the game has hit the bargain bin, you really can't go wrong with this one, 
 as long as you are not expecting a life changing experience in FPS play. As a last comment, I used 
 steam's download service and I was very pleased with it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: James_B
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 18, 2007 6:10 pm PT
Review:  Like most FPS's (First Person Shooters) these days Prey has a slight difference from the usual. 
 F. E. A. R's difference was that it was suppose to be scary. Prey on the other hand goes more sci-fi 
 with space ships and aliens.
  
  Its an FPS plain and simple. Some might argue that its not plain, by mentioning the puzzles, but 
 they were too simple to be anything other then a minor rest from shooting things. Infact alot of 
 the puzzles and gravity stuff involved shooting something. Like most games of this type its story 
 line was plain and simple somethings threatening, go shoot it . Graphically its not the best but 
 FPS's do set a high bar and this game does come close to it. Mostly it looks good and runs smoothly.
 
  
  At the start of the game you get abducted by aliens and manage to escape, from then on you are 
 running around this giant ship called the sphere . On a few chances you get to pilot a small shuttle 
 and fly around some of the larger areas but mostly you are on your own with whatever alien gun 
 has enough ammo at the time. As i said before the story line doesn't fit up to much and alot of 
 the time you just go trough linear levels without purpose.
  
  The gravity tricks and spirit element give a nice fresh fell to the game, along with the place 
 setting and occasional portal. All are integrated into the game smoothly and solidly making the 
 game flow from beginning to the end. While the spirit element does basically prevent you from dying, 
 you don't feel immortal. Lets face it, in anyother FPS when you do die you just end up reloading 
 a game you saved 5 seconds ago anyway. So all it does is replace all the reloading with a mini-game 
 where you actually fight for your life.
  
  Most of the guns arn't really anything new, basically alien versions of old favourites, machine 
 gun, mini gun, rocket launcher, grenade. While the new weapons are practical and are probably the 
 ones i used the most. Which makes a change because usually in this sort of game where they try 
 and think up new types of weapons they are rubbish and you find yourself user the classics more.
 
  
  The multiplayer is basic FPS stuff set in the prey world. I won't go into great detail about it 
 mainly because i don't know much about it as I didn't play it much.
  
  After that review your probably wondering why such a high score? Mainly because its good for what 
 it is, it doesn't try too much on the story front (but thats not what FPS's are usually about) 
 nor does it break new ground with graphics. Its a good old fashioned shooter with some new twists. 
 Its a casual gamers game and it doesn't try to be anything else. It installs cleanly and runs stable 
 (well it did on my PC) . Its a plug a play game and while there is a mod option i'm better the only 
 mods for this will be silly little ones to cheat, tweak or novelty.
  
  All in all its just plain fun and a good play. Its the complex and involved and doesn't try to 
 be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Terrorantula
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 18, 2007 9:47 am PT
Review:  It's not the best FPS ever created but it certainlly is one that'll stick in my mind for a long 
 time to come. The game has some great features that are pretty neat and they were:
  
  - Switching to your spirit to solve puzzles and get around to places you can't as the normal guy
 
  - Wall walking
  - Portals
  - You can't die
  
  When you do die all that happens is you go to a spirit world and res yourself :) It's pretty kool 
 because IMO dying isn't fun and a new gameplay mechanic to make you want to carry on playing is 
 kool
  
  Alot of these features led to me being dizzy tho, you'll often think WTF is happening? Am i on 
 the floor, walls or ceiling? Enemies can appear to be walking on the ceiling when infact you are 
 lol. Sometimes you'll shoot enemies and they wont drop to the floor because they're already and 
 you forgot your wall walking lol.
  
  Alot of the puzzles can be confusing because they involve all these features at once and your head 
 xplodes lol. Also sometimes you'll find yourself going back through the level to find codes to 
 open doors to progress which can be annoying.
  
  The game is about 10 hours long which is a great length and isnt too short or too long which leaves 
 you happy instead of getting bored or disappointed.
  
  The multiplayer reminds me ALOT of Quake 4 with Wall waking which is fun but it makes me way tooo 
 dizzy and couldn't play it for that long. It didn't make me want to play it though like CS did 
 and there isn't that many people playing.
  
  The graphics and sounds are pretty kool aswel and there are some great hidden radios into the game 
 that add a nice touch and are pretty long aswel. Only problem is i hate all the plastic look however 
 it suits sci-fi games pretty well so i can't complain at all :) Overall its a great FPS game and 
 i can't really fault it other than making me feel dizzy and sick while playing lol. The game is 
 a perfect length and the story is pretty basic but thats what most FPS games come with. I loved 
 the alien theme and everything + the Engine compliments it well.
  
  Only problems is the multiplayer isn't that popular and i can't stand playing it for too long, 
 however the single player is pretty good. It's sad but this is probally the last MAJOR game for 
 the Doom 3 engine. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lorondo-
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 11, 2007 4:30 pm PT
Review:  Prey is a game released in 2006, that runs on the Doom 3 engine. If you liked Quake 4 and doom 
 3 you'd think you would like this too right? well the truth is you'r probobly not going to like 
 it that much. Prey has some intresting features that when you hear about them they seem very cool 
 but there really not that intresting or helpfull. Take the portals for example. Occasionally the 
 portals are intresting but most of the time I agree with gamespot that they could of just as well 
 been doors.
  Prey's gameplay is unfortunetly not that fun and it's a shame because it was worked on for a very 
 long time and people have made much better games in less then half the time. As you expect from 
 the doom 3 engine it has beutiful graphics, but the over gameplay is not fun enough to make this 
 a very good game. If it were not for the graphics this game would hardly be worth the trouble of 
 buying it.
  This game also is not very long so that just degrades the game.
  My opinion on this game is that it's a good game but it could and really should have been a much 
 better game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RoyShefy
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 7, 2007 9:26 am PT
Review:  I think the main reason Prey didn't succeed much is because the linear structure of the level design. 
 Yes, you can fly a mini-spaceship, but it doesn't give enough thrill, the levels and puzzles seemed 
 to repeat themselves a lot.
  Although, with all its downs, (not enough to make the game a bad one, or even normal) Prey was 
 a very fun experience for me. You should know, that the game delivers exactly what it made to deliver, 
 I am just looking for over-creativity in games, usually.
  
  Graphics are beautiful and the sound effects are clear and intense.
  
  Prey really does worth 
 the buck and. -RoyShefy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rambamatic
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 25, 2007 12:34 pm PT
Review:  My wife got this one for me to play on the road on my laptop, and I must say that this is a VERY 
 FUN game!! The gravity innovations are EXCELLENT, and the storyline and Spirit Walk features are 
 OUTSTANDING!!
  
  I particularly enjoyed the gravity wall features, and the sound.... when the children are screaming 
 it sends chills down my spine... at one point I kept going back on a savepoint and I had to turn 
 the volume off because I just couldn't hear the sound of the kid being eaten by the monster any 
 more.
  
  THis is one of those games that isn't GREAT for several reasons, but that introduces innovations 
 that many other developers should pay attention to and use, and that is just a great, fun romp 
 through space!!!
  
  I highly recommmend it!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lamx30108200
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 21, 2007 10:59 am PT
Review:  I think this game deserves more credit. First, the gameplay:
  
  This game is everything except being your typical fps.... i mean the portals, the wall walking, 
 the gravity plays, the puzzles, the spiritwalk, the story and the relation that you get with your 
 character. What I mean by the relation with your character is that your character in this game 
 got emotions. In how many fps you got the sense that your player is actually a real person... he 
 gets mad, sick, sad... etc... for example: near the end of the game your character is real pissed. 
 Your against many enemies at the same time and you can ear him screaming COME ON you $%?&amp;, 
 bring it, i'm gonna kill you all !!!! .
  In others fps you just shoot and it seems like your character doesn't even have a tongue. Graphics 
 and sounds:
  
  Graphics are just awesome... like quake and doom 3 but in Prey, there's huge wide open environment 
 that just give the feeling that your into something larger than life, and that your really into 
 space, which add to the cinematic experience. I have a 21 inch monitor and I cant even imagine 
 playing on a bigger screen... wow!!
  
  Sound is the best part, the talking of your player, the sound effects of the environment, and by 
 far, the music ... always the right one at the right time.. like in a movie. Ex: your in a small 
 corridor and when it ends, your in a huge.. i mean HUGE sphere that seems too big to be true, and 
 as you enter this huge spere, the music starts and its the kind of music that you feel you are 
 seeing something big.
  
  For the cons:
  It should have been longer than 8 hrs... but i got it for 17$ on amazon... so i'm not complaining 
 to much.
  I know many people complains about the A. I. and the fact that there's not enough fighting or enemies 
 to kill... but it is so much more than your typical run and gun fps.
  
  This game is amazing and just steps out from others fps and for 17$ you cant be wrong... also, the 
 end is one of the best I've seen since a long time... and if your considering the endings of fps 
 nowadays, a good ending is a plus. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BurnThisCity
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 13, 2007 11:25 am PT
Review:  ------------------------- MY RATINGS -------------------------
  Difficulty: Very Easy
  Time Spent: 10 to 20 Hours
  Learning Curve: 0 to 30 Minutes
  
  Gameplay: 5 / 10
  Graphics: 
 8 / 10
  Sound: 9 / 10
  Value: 7 / 10
  My Tilt: 8 / 10
  
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  I'm going to make 
 it snappy. Gameplay: PREY is definitely one of the most boring FPS I've ever played. There's very 
 little combat, the enemies you're facing don't make much sense as to what they're doing and their 
 combat strategy. There's very little shooting for a shooter game. Although the storyline and the 
 environment you're in are of fantastic ideas, if you're playing this game looking forward for a 
 thrill I strongly recommend that you play something else.
  
  Graphics: PREY uses the Doom 3 engine, which is one of the few games that uses it alongside with 
 Quake 4 and, well, Doom 3. The world-build looks fantastic and anything that LOOKS wet FEELS wet. 
 I have not tried playing this game in a lower graphics setting, but if you're using a mid-high 
 GPU you should do fine.
  
  Sound: Nothing especially notable, but nothing's wrong with it. If you want to know how you sound 
 in the game, just imagine you're John Redcorn speaking in outerspace =)
  
  Value, Tilt: If you're looking for a thrill of a FPS game, you should play something else. There's 
 really nothing nice for me to say about this game, other than the fantastic graphics and an unique 
 storyline (For details on the storyline read the Gamespot review) . But then again, you can't play 
 the storyline with no actions, can you? There's really not much action in this game, so you're 
 exploring most of the time.
  
  Buy... or no Buy? - NO BUY. For $20 you might as well spend it on Quake 4, if you have never tried 
 it =) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rambolito
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 12, 2007 1:45 am PT
Review:  Prey is a short game, I managed to finish it in 16 hours without rushing through it. I've checked 
 all rooms for secret spots (in spirit mode) , just to not miss out on anything.
  
  Man!! The graphics are awesome!! Running in 1600x1200 and highest detail, the environment looks 
 really incredible! The 'wet-look' on the organic inside of the ship, lighting, wall-walks, space, 
 just beautiful!
  
  Seen the weapons? Half organic half machine? Stand still and have a look at 'm, the sniper gun 
 is funny, at times a little creature pops out, looks at you and then disappears again, like if 
 it's saying: Move on! .
  
  Revolutionary are the wall-walks, on these paths you can walk up against a wall or ceiling, some 
 of 'm have to be turned on first and, if you can turn 'm on, you can turn 'm off too... exactly, 
 which is done by Hunters that suddenly appear through a portal. The A. I. of the enemy could've 
 been better and also the 'puzzles' aren't really mind breaking. I'd expected them to be much harder. 
 Also beating the bosses isn't that hard, just use the right weapon and stand in the right place. 
 * SPOILER *: I've found it harder to beat the mutated Jen than the Keepers and end-boss Mother. 
 Jen keeps running into you, giving you less options to get a good shot at her. When enough damage 
 is done she'll stop to recharge herself, this is your moment! Take out those recharging-devices! 
 I died a couple of times here.
  
  If you die you won't have to reload your game because you'll return in the living world, by shooting 
 flying creatures as a spirit, where you left off and the damage done to an enemy won't be replenished. 
 So, there's no frustration here!
  
  All in all, it is a great game and most certainly worth to spent your precious gaming-hours on.
 
  
  I'm looking forward to the sequel! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: herodotus2006
Rating: 6.3
Date: Feb 8, 2007 6:38 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game after reading several reviews on how terrific it was: graphically, a twist in 
 gameplay tactics, etc, etc. One thing I learnt, or should have reminded myself of is... don't believe 
 the hype.
  
  GRAPHICS: Exceptionally crisp and detailed is the first thing you'll notice. The brown, organic 
 walls give the game a living feeling to the surroundings. Surprisingly modest demands on a fairly 
 decent rig at max settings. By the end, however, those brown walls are going to become so monotonous 
 you'll be wanting to tear holes in them (which you can through portals... more later) . Becomes very 
 mundane, at the least and you very soon realize that this is just another space dungeon crawler 
 (ala Doom3 and Quake4 ) . The creatures are not that terrorriffic, and the violence seen against 
 other kidnapped humans is, to my mind often gratuitous and quite sadistic. I'm no bleeding hearted 
 liberal where violence in games is concerned, but I think they've just gone that bit too far (any 
 more info would be a spoiler) .
  
  GAMEPLAY: You can walk on walls or upside down... that's one twist. By the end, though you'll see 
 it as a gimmick which it is. The use of Portals to traverse time and space is nothing new but well 
 implemented. As is the ability of the main character Tommy to leave his physical self as a spirit 
 to pass through blocked spaces, open doorways and portals, return to form and move ahead. At least 
 there's no Red Key Required . Choice of weapons is quite limited and nothing really stands out. 
 The puzzles are quite simple to solve once you get the hang of the game, so you're looking at around 
 ten hours of gameplay.
  
  MULTIPLAY: Nothing new... standard fair, except for the gravity walk. Not a lot of fanbase support 
 online, though.
  
  BOTTOM LINE: If you've played D3 and Q4 to death and can't get enough, then this is a game for 
 your collection. Don't expect the ferocity of either of those titles though. More often than not 
 you have to shoot at a creature to get it to attack you. Brown walls, gravity walks, portals, spirit 
 -shifting and dungeon crawling. That's it. It's very cheap to buy now (never a good sign) so give 
 it a go if you want. I would advise holding onto your dosh and waiting S. T. A. L. K. E. R. though. Replay 
 value here is practically nil. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alkpaz
Rating: 8.1
Date: Feb 8, 2007 11:39 am PT
Review:  What can I say about this game.. hmm first of all it has enough new things in a FPS that make it 
 worth checking out.. from being shrunk to the size of an ant.. to walking on ceilings. Of course 
 the loadout is not very unique .. most of what you see is taken from UT, Doom, etc. But what it 
 does have for it is just one excellent soundtrack! Gameplay: Very easy to pick up.. you have a 
 Spirit walk ability that lets you solve some puzzles . In fact only one of the puzzles actually 
 made me think through it.. (the cube) should be enough to give ya an idea. Graphics: Excellent.. 
 but seem like the common when compared to the likes of Doom 3 and Quake 4. If your familiar with 
 those two games you can pretty much guess how the graphics look. :)
  
  Sound: By far its best attribute.. the music score is just superb. (that is if you like rock/metal. 
 Value: If you took your time through the game, you probably just want to play through the campaign 
 twice.. since there are only two difficulties. Not so much replayability in the single player as 
 I had hoped. I have to give my personal score of 9 out of 10.. since it was a superbly made game.. 
 the storyline is just excellent and the voice acting just brilliant. Heck even waiting through 
 the credits with a fairly lengthy ending (which is uncommon in FPSs.. was just very satisfying.. 
 The difficulty comes from (trying NEVER) to enter the spirit world upon dieing.. (this is VERY 
 much a challenge!) Otherwise the game is just too easy just die shoot some dead souls and pop back 
 in.. essentially gaining all your health and spirit back.. All in all it was a great game :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: moose2387
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 7, 2007 5:21 am PT
Review:  When I started looking at buying this game it was already out for awhile. I read reviews and it 
 was mixed. I know what everyone else is trying to say but I just think that everyone is getting 
 really picky when it comes to their shooters now adays.
  
  First off the gameplay is what i expected. It's not evolutionary by any means but the guns feel 
 powerfull and are easy to use. There is a pretty good variety in a quake/doom esque style. I really 
 enjoy the monsters in the game. They aren't that smart but some are well done. A lot of them remind 
 me of my Doom II days. The spirit walking is cool, although the puzzles that accompany it aren't 
 that difficult. Fun non the less.
  
  The story i thought was pretty cool. It's out of this world with aliens basically kidnapping people 
 and harvesting them. This is the exact type of thing that I have grown up with. That is to say 
 these crazy stories with the hero eventually saving the world. The one thing that really stood 
 out it how the game basically goes from nothing then starts to get more serious.
  
  Graphically this game looks awsome, but what else could you expect running off of the Doom 3 engine. 
 Although I do have a pretty high end rid so i didn't have to worry about turning any settings down. 
 One thing that I didn't mention in gameplay is the portals just because i find them to be visually 
 really cool. You can look through them and peak around but if you go around to the back you can't 
 see it. It just really gives it a feel like it's a tear in space. Kinda cool IMO. Plus it adds 
 some gameplay mechanics.
  
  For sound i heard some people saying that there isn't really any. I agree at times but it dies 
 down when there is nothing going on then when the action starts getting heavy the music starts 
 to pick up. I believe it was the guy who did the soundtrack for Lost Planet that said sometimes 
 silence is the best tool to use. Other than the music i thought the sound effects were really great. 
 Overall I would say, especially now that the price has dropped to 26$ canadian dollars and 20$ 
 US you can't really go wrong. I was debating about getting it for the xbox 360 but i read about 
 some slow down issues. I weighed what achievement points or having the game run the best and looking 
 it's best and took the latter of the two. I would say if you have a higher end PC buy it for the 
 PC. To wrap things up i would say if you are looking for a solid shooter that seems to do everything 
 pretty well adding in a few quircks here and there to keep the game a little fresh.... then give 
 this one a shot I don't think that anyone will hate this game unless you absolutely hate shooters. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackcro55
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 4, 2007 4:15 pm PT
Review:  Not your usual storyline. Oh sure it has game/movie plot #12: girlfriend and grandfather get kidnapped 
 by aliens, but it adds several twists. The first is that you're a disgruntled ex-army cherokee 
 (sp?) : trained to kill, pretty cynical and not caring much for your heritage. The writing kept 
 me engaged through the game but at about 12 hours of game play I thought it was a bit short. I 
 can see how others might zip through even faster
  
  Anyway, it's got great graphics courtesy of the Doom3 engine and a mind bending gravity flipping 
 world that really adds a dimension to fighting that you're not used to. And puzzles also need to 
 be solved by taking into account walking on the walls and ceiling (you're character gets sick at 
 one point and hurls!) . Then there is the life after death bit which allows you to come back and 
 surprise the critter that just killed you.
  
  I also liked how your character talks to himself. Kind of a neat touch and makes it seem like you're 
 in the game rather than just steering the camera around. Another novel touch was the swearing (nice 
 touch) and the ability to turn it off. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Superdude687
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 30, 2007 12:59 pm PT
Review:  Have you ever wondered what it would be like to be abducted by aliens? If it would be difficult 
 to survive? Well now you can find this out and more in the wonderful world of Prey.
  
  Welcome to Prey for the X360/PC. A game in which you are Tommy, a Native-American who along with 
 his grandfather and girlfriend are violently ripped from the reservation and the very face of the 
 earth by vicious aliens intent on turning you into processed food. Somewhere inside the alien stronghold 
 called The Sphere your grandfather and girlfriend are being held and it is your duty to save them.
 
  
  This game if you did not know already is a FPS (First Person Shooter) with about 23 levels. It's 
 a pretty good game for beginners and for experts alike because after a certain point you can not 
 die but you go into a shooting gallery type mini game. It's a nice addition to this game which 
 is otherwise your standard Shoot, Strafe, Dodge game but it has another new twist, you get to walk 
 on ceilings and walls. Also portals appear and transport you through the sphere at different intervals 
 of the game. The fact that you can't die and only 3 bosses makes the game seem a little short.
 
  
  The graphics in the game are good for a X360/PC game, as the enemies are creepy looking and the 
 environments are creepy sometimes and just plain disgusting looking (in a good way) other times. 
 Later in the game you'll fly shuttles through very expansive environment. The game itself can be 
 really intense at times and at other times the puzzles can be down right confusing.
  
  This game is definitely a buy especially now that it's cheap. So get it now :)
  
  9.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: moldovan76
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 21, 2007 11:50 am PT
Review:  I just finished this game and must say I was impressed. At first, it doesn't seem like there's 
 anything special here. The gameplay is typical (except for the gravity changes which are cool and 
 spiritwalk) . The graphics are excellent with a huge amount of detail, but not head-and-shoulders 
 better then a gazillion other FPS's. The legnth is very good (8-10hrs) , but shortened by the spirit 
 world/resurrect mechanic (i. e. you can't die) . Level design is good, but linear. Where this game 
 really excels is its attention to detail, great original and emotional story, and consistancy. 
 This sounds lame, but I actually felt for the characters in the game. The writers did a great job 
 in working you up for an emotional climax.
  
  Prey's soundtrack really deserves special mention. It has some of the best music in any game... ever. 
 Jeremy Soule was really at the top of his game here. The game music pushes you on to kill more 
 baddies and get to the next level. When your first abducted, BOC Don't Fear the Reaper plays.... frigin 
 sweet right? And to top it off, they have a jukebox with f-in Juday Priest man! The variety of 
 the soundtrack is excellent and I don't think I heard a track repeated once in the game. Also, 
 the end credit song is cool and very well chosen. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fixer38
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jan 5, 2007 1:10 am PT
Review:  Well Prey was a interesting game I have played but I will never play this game again. Why? I mean 
 its was like the most anticipated shooter of the year or something... Why shouldn't you like it? 
 I have my reasons and one of those reasons is.. I hate games that has violence over the human body. 
 Sure we have games like Doom3 and Quake4, those have violence.. but at-least keep to the borders. 
 Prey is by no means a bad shooter, definitely not. I like the old-school feel to it and the guns 
 are ok but theres one thing that gets me when I play this game, the overdose of violence. At the 
 beginning on the game you see chunks of human flesh flow truth tubes.. ok... Its not the worst I 
 have seen. Infarct you will see females/males being held down while a tube is pierced into they`re 
 stomach and the guts sucked out. Sure I mean you can just go on with the game and ignore this but... you 
 cant. I mean in doom do you ignore the monsters when you can save ammo? NO? Its like that in Prey. 
 Later on you will come across a school bus.. with kids in it. But they are not playing oh no... they 
 are doing something like putting each other on spikes.. I mean c`mon what the hell?! Look at games 
 like Half Life 2 it has no kids in it, and the story is cleverly put together to explain why there 
 are no kids. Prey could not hold back on that part. As if slathering humans was not enough. I hate 
 violence like that in games, its just beyond my understanding. But thats only me. Well lets get 
 to the good part of the game. The graphics are really impressive and the enemies, levels and weapons 
 sound very good. The voice acting in this game is exceptionally good. The length of the game is 
 a nice and killing bad monsters is what you basically do. Apart from the special powers you have 
 you can use futuristic weapons. Not to mention the great gravity traps and tricks the game has. 
 Portals are also present and are fareley good.
  
  All in all Prey is not for everyone. The overdose of violence in this game makes me want to push 
 it back to the store. But then again it is only me. In my opinion if not the good FPS play, the 
 Cherokee addition to the game and the superpowers this game would simply fall apart. I know it 
 has been out quite along time by now but I never actually got around of reviewing it. Sadly, this 
 game did not live up to my expeditions and is not worth all the hype I have heard about it earlyer. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeadParrot145
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 2, 2007 1:53 pm PT
Review:  Current System Configuration
  
  Intel Pentium4 @ 2.2ghz
  2 x 512 mb of ram (1gb)
  BFG Geforce 6200 (PCI Bus)
  
  Ever since the orinigal Wolfenstein 3d, FPS has made its presenance 
 in the gaming industry. It wouldn't be long until classics such a doom, quake, duke nukem 3d, and 
 others would spawn and evolve into the genre we all know and love today.
  The year is 2007, and we are aquainted with games such as battlefield 2, Half-life 2, FEAR. But 
 the question is, how does Prey fit into that category? For starters it uses the Doom 3 engine, 
 which yes, is dated, but still looks impressive to say the least. For the exception of some cheezy 
 voice overs, prey happens to be one of the most atmospheric games on the market.
  How does this game play? I see it as very little more than an updated duke nukem without the wise 
 cracks, this of course isn't a bad thing, but the game eventually grows boring. As all Doom 3 engine 
 games, prey is very repetitious. There are bosses, dark hallways, things to shoot, and a new weapon 
 of every so often. The weapons unfourtinately, aren't all that exciting. What makes Prey unique 
 is the gravity effects, it makes deathmatches slightly more interesting providing an upgrade from 
 the Doom 3 deathmatch. But it still fails to compare to some of the other FPS multiplayer games 
 on the market (I would actually prefer quake III or II over prey's deathmatch) but it still should 
 give you an afternoon of excitement. The gravity also fuels some of the lodgic puzzles in the single 
 player, which indeed, are not very hard.
  The best thing about Prey, is that the story is immersive, even if the voice overs are almost as 
 painful as the ones from the orinigal resident evil on the PS1. The beginning of the game takes 
 you right in, and above all, there is absolutely no learning curve. This leads us to one final 
 question, Is this game worth a purchase? Unless money is no object, I would strongly advise waiting 
 for it to come down, Prey isn't a bad game, but it also isn't the most exciting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: austinite04
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 26, 2006 10:27 pm PT
Review:  I really think this game is the best game for the PC I just wish everyone would start multiprey. 
 Just an hour ago 11:00 pm CST I only found 1 player on the network!! People I want this to beat 
 Quake 4 in online gaming. Please download it today from Steam. You won't be disapointed. I do recommend 
 a Soundblaster XFI Fatal1ty if you want to have the best frames per second possible. I noticed 
 a huge increase as soon as I upgraded it started to not lag as much. I have a AMD 64bit 3200+ 2gigs 
 ram. I noticed right after the bar scene that I was in for something way better than ID Software 
 could ever pull off. No wonder it took ten years to make, it's perfect in everyway. If this were 
 a movie and was cast right, it would make $ 45 million it's first week. The level of texture detail 
 is (no pun intended) OUT OF THIS WORLD!!! I know for a fact the storyline is just as good. I'm 
 currently trying to find Jen but dude 3drealms makes it seem almost impossible. I hope that ther 
 is an offical expansion in 2007 that will take the story even furthe like, The white house knew 
 about the invasion but didn't tell anyone because the aliens blackmaled the president, and in order 
 to rid the universe of the aline we would have to spend the rest of the game in spirit mode, which 
 really rocks! I am sure I'm not the only one to figure this out but doom 3 cheats work on this 
 game. I wonder if the level warp works too? Anyways, GS better give this game some more street 
 cred, after all it was in development for 10 years. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bankisa
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 26, 2006 6:10 pm PT
Review:  1) Graphics
  
  This game looks amazing - I'm running it full spec on a 7950GT KO and it looks a true dream. I've 
 played FEAR, HL2 and Quake4 all on the same Rig and PREY is by far the best looker. The level design 
 is very cool and the graphics all have a nice solid and crisp feel to them
  
  The only down-side is the slightly plastic looking humans (Namely the hair which looks pretty poor) 
 but this is a very minor detail and one that dose very little to damage the great looks
  
  2) Gameplay
  
  Excellent classic FPS combined with some cool puzzels and fun Dimension and 
 Gravety games. The basic style of the game is close to both DOOM3 and QUAKE4, but the combat feels 
 a little more solid than both of those games and thanks to the addition of Gravety there is always 
 a suprise to be had.
  
  Also the developer seems to have really thought about the enviroments and there are often cool 
 ways to deal with foes (Such as flipping the rooms down so your enermies fall to their doom)
  
  The lack of death (In prey you go to the spirit realm and then come back alive again) makes 
 for a game where your willing to experiment rather than hold back in fear of a Game Over and the 
 small frequent ammo-drops add to the same playstyle where your never afraid to use your weapons.
 
  
  The Spirit Walk is a nice touch but it could have been used to a better effect - aside from that 
 I cant say I have any complaints
  
  All in all Prey is a great game that dose what it sets out to and a little more. Its not a revolution 
 and it dosnt have the depth of plot or quality of characters that HL2 offers, but as action based 
 FPS games go its right up there with the best of them 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gnoel809
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 25, 2006 1:19 pm PT
Review:  I wasn't expecting a lot from Prey, since it was a project that disappeared in the late 90's and 
 then suddenly reappeared. I read some of the reviews, which were mostly positive, so I decided 
 to give it a chance.
  
  I had a lot of fun figuring out the gravity effects and portals. Spirit walking also adds a dimension 
 to the game, since you have to use spirit walking to figure out some of the puzzles.
  
  If you're tired of simply run-and-gun games with no brain challenges, this is the game for you. 
 Pick up a copy and you won't regret it.
  
  Now if Duke Nukem Forever can reappear and be as good as Prey, it will have been worth the wait 
 (maybe) ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sabazios
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 21, 2006 9:16 am PT
Review:  I'll start offensively: Prey is probably wasted on the gaming crowd. A truly moving tale, with 
 twists of mind-boggling scope, hides under the trappings of another stupid game off the Doom 3 
 engine.
  
  Don't mistake me: I quite liked Quake 4, although it made me almost bodily sick from sheer vulgarity. 
 As to Doom 3, once past the demo levels I lost any interest in that whole mess, and feel it would 
 have worked better as a 30-minutes tech demo, such as Penumbra.
  Prey is something different. How many shooters start with the main character looking at himself 
 in the mirror and cursing himself for not daring ask his fiancee to elope with him? And it's not 
 cheesy, mind you. Tommy (not some anonymous marine) is having one of those meditative bouts one 
 sometimes experiences while washing one's hands at a seedy bar's toilet.
  Twenty seconds later, Tommy's grandfather launches into some speech about tradition and the Cherokee 
 heritage. Any other game would rush that way, the easy way, 'cause, you know, legends are awesome. 
 Tommy's reply is closer to a big shut up , and he won't acknowledge that whole Cherokee thing before 
 a long, long time, well into the game.
  Everything is on the same line: when first confronted with abrupt gravity flipping, Tommy doesn't 
 just take it for granted (if I remember well, the marine from Doom 3 doesn't even utter a mild 
 word of surprise upon entering, you know, HELL) . He throws up, and comments on how nausea-inducing 
 it is. And the best thing is, although I'm prone to motion-sickness playing video games (Half-Life 
 was almost unbearable at times) , Prey managed to never make me feel uncomfortable.
  
  So yeah, a clever plot, very well paced, both epic and intimate.
  Some incredible vistas (with 
 good art direction, the Doom 3 engine pulls off MAJOR STUFF) , well-crafted environments , and a 
 nice general bio-tech feeling. The level design is sound and tight, with innovative gravity and 
 portal puzzles.
  Very good voice acting, with a wonderful score that's epic without smelling of cheese. The juke 
 box in the beginning, with its couple of hard rock tracks, drew me in like you have no idea.
  It's just too bad Prey teems with Doom 3 type monsters (although slightly less horrific) , as they're 
 too vulgar. Also, the fact that you never actually die allowed the developers to fill slightly 
 too small areas with slightly too tough monsters, so that sometimes it feels weird blasting at 
 a few enemies for a minute or so, dying, re-spawning with one's health back up, and so on three 
 or four times in a row. And the shooting is good, but not the most satisfying, with sci-fi weapons 
 that don't pack the same punch as FEAR's arsenal for instance.
  
  But that's the wonder about Prey: it's an FPS that's not about the shooting. It goes through the 
 usual, unavoidable hoops (generic monster design, weird alien guns, vehicular combat...) , but always 
 adds its distinct dramatic touch. I don't think Prey will ever become a movie license, because 
 there's too much cinematic grandeur already on display here, and very little room left for improvement, 
 either narratively or technically. So maybe Prey 2 will actually be perfect.
  We'll talk about that in 2017... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MafiaMizo
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 20, 2006 1:18 am PT
Review:  Prey is about an Alien Invasion, you're Tommy. A Cherokee Indian with a special heritage, your 
 aim is to rescue the girl friend, the Grandfather and the World. Tommy denies his Heritage at first, 
 but comes to rely on it later on. The game may sound funny, but it's actually serious. Game play:
 
  On first glance, you'd think you're playing Doom 3 or Quake 4. Prey however is Unique when compared 
 to them and utilizes the engine. The game uses the idea of Portals and gravity to an extreme. As 
 if that wasn't enough, Tommy's Heritage, which allows him to Spirit walk, is used in many puzzle 
 solving techs. Hands up for Weapons Design, every weapon is Unique in shape, size and Design. Although 
 the idea is the same, but its Implemented differently (I mean who thought of a Bug Launcher for 
 a rocket launcher) . That aside, Prey is easy. The enemies rarely try to corner you or overwhelm 
 you. And you can't die. (You should see that for yourself)
  
  Performance:
  Prey is 'light' in terms of requirements, Graphics are well made. Levels are designed well. I think 
 the AI needs to be tweaked a little bit.
  
  Sound:
  The game Sound was done well, Voice acting is well done, while the music fits in the atmosphere.
 
  
  Value:
  Prey is very fun to play and you will miss it from time to time, besides I imagine there will be 
 an expansion of some sort.
  
  Bottom-line:
  Prey is an Interesting, Unique and fun First person Shooter. And will keep you glued for a couple 
 of hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ping5000
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 17, 2006 11:07 pm PT
Review:  Prey is a frustrating game. Not from a gameplay perspective but how it never cashes on it's awesome 
 potenial. There're so many great ideas that aren't even explored upon, they're just there to make 
 you say, Mmm neat. and then you'll forget about them forever. It's still a fun game, just not as 
 great as it could of been.
  
  In Prey, you play as a Native American by the name of Tommy. He lives in a reservation and wants 
 to leave with his girlfriend Jen because he wants something better than the reservation for Jen 
 and him. Jen doesn't want to leave, and Tom's grandpa wants him to get back to his roots. Then 
 all of a sudden, this hugeass UFO comes crashing down and starts abducting people from the bar 
 they're in. Then the game starts.
  
  Prey is at surface level, intruiging. There're a lot of innovative ideas thrown at you during the 
 beginning of the game and the game... well... never brings the ideas back up again. And if they 
 are brought up again, it's a gimmick. Portals are cool at first but they're all stationary, and 
 aren't used for any of the puzzles. They're just another way of getting you from level to level. 
 At first, it's really neat because you get transported to a glass case to a rock a size of an apple 
 but that's never ever brought up again. Ever.
  
  Besides the portals, there're two other neat ideas, spirit walking and gravity manipulation. Spirit 
 walking lets you leave your body so that you can pass forcefields and find hidden bridges webbed 
 together by a glowing web that you can only see in spirit walk mode. So if there's a forcefield 
 you can't pass, spirit walk and there'll be a button right next to the door. Every. Single. Damn. 
 Time. Okay well, there's one puzzle in the game that requires you to do a bit more then that but 
 99% of the time you're just using this ability to walk across forcefields and then turn them off. 
 Again, great idea, never fully fleshed out.
  
  Gravity manipulation is also a wasted oppurtunity. There're two types of gravity manipulation. 
 One where you walk on special metal bridges and rooms where you shoot these pads so the gravity 
 shifts. Wall walking is a total gimmick. They're all linear one-way paths and the only use they 
 have is the ability to walk upside down, which is pretty cool. But never a major a gameplay thing, 
 just interesting. The gravity shifting is actually pretty interesting, but they're rarely used. 
 You shift gravity to go across some obstruction and that's really it.
  
  There're a couple other ideas but they're largely there to just impress you for five seconds. One 
 idea that is used plenty (depending on how good you are at shooters) is the fact that you can't 
 die. When you do die you're transported to a spirit world where you can shoot blue and red demons 
 with an arrow that'll boost up your health or spirit power. This is a very nice alternative to 
 the quicksave because the shooting demons bit is fun and hardcore quicksavers will probably bowdown 
 to this game just because of this feature. You could say that the game gets way to easy but then 
 again, you'd be quicksaving every 5 steps.
  
  The general combat of the game is overall solid. The guns feel right and the sounds for them are 
 unique and strong and they all have alternate firing modes. There's one that acts as a machine 
 gun/grenade launcher, a leech gun that can change from fire, ice, and lightning elements from little 
 pods you can leech power off of, a semi-auto with a scope, green bugs that can be used as grenades 
 or sticky grenades, and an acid shotgun. They're all fun to use but you can just breeze through 
 the game with the semi-auto.
  
  The AI is standard, they shoot, they hide and maybe shift side to side because they think they 
 look cool doing it. They'll bum rush you if you wait long enough. The enemy variety is pretty weak 
 too. 90% of the time you're fighting an alien soldier and two legged dog things once in awhile 
 that just bum rush you too. There're times where you fight 4 legged manspiders and mutilated humans 
 but they too aren't all that interesting to fight because of their predictable AI routines.
  
  The visuals are rendered using the Doom 3 engine so of course this game looks fantastic. For 
 the first time a game running on the Doom 3 has brightly lit levels! Artisically, it's very impressive 
 with tech and organics fused together that create some visually interesting results. The weapons 
 are all organic looking with great idle animations that bring these rather standard guns to life, 
 which makes them all the more fun to shoot. The game is visually interesting throughout the game 
 with some neat momements (seeing a hallway build itself remains impressive no matter how many times 
 you see it) .
  
  But for the third time in a row, a game running on the Doom 3 engine looks like Doom 3. Even with 
 the art style, you're going to get the that looks like Doom 3 feeling because of the techy nature 
 of the place. Even with fusion of organic stuff, the metal halls with the specular lightining that 
 makes everything all shiny just screams Doom 3 at your face. Character models are pretty ugly too. 
 Human models look less then spectatular but the creature designs are well modeled and textured 
 but they're very generic. The alien grunt you face will look like the alien grunts from the Quake 
 games, Halo, Doom 3, etc.
  
  Sound design is very solid. The score done my Jeremey Soule, ( the dude who did the awesome music 
 for Oblivion) shifts from epic ochestral pieces to techno drones at just the right momements and 
 never feels out of place. The voice acting is all around solid, Jen gets a bit whiny at the end 
 but that's really the writer's fault. The alien grunts speak in english which isn't bothersome 
 at all because their voices are garbled up to the point where it sounds like they're forcing the 
 english, which sounds very natural and neat. One interesting thing to note is that the main characters 
 talks... a lot... and it's very, very annoying. All he does is **** and moan about how he wants 
 to get his girl and leave instead of saving the human race when he's the last and only true hope. 
 A lot of people wished Gordon Freeman from HL2 talked, but Prey should shut them up good as an 
 example why Valve decided to keep their main character mute.
  
  Prey is a very short game. The timer said I beat it in just over 6 hrs. The multiplayer looks very 
 uninspired too from the MP demo I tried. The modes are generic and it's something that'll lose 
 your interest by the first hour.
  
  God damn, this game could've been so awesome. The ideas from Human Head were just so great, and 
 there were so many of them. They could've made 4 different games with the ideas they had. But in 
 the end, it's a standard shooter, with some great ideas that aren't fully realized. Maybe for Prey 
 2 (it's in development) Human Head will really flesh out these great ideas and maybe it'll be the 
 classic shooter that it could've been. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Skat137321
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 13, 2006 3:15 pm PT
Review:  It all started with you as an Cherokee that doesn't want to have anything to do with his roots 
 and it ends with you (you've guessed it right) saving the world from the alien invasion (i think 
 i've heard that somewhere before.. ahh yes every Sci-Fi FPS) . Not much to tell about the story, 
 is not that amazing. The gameplay on the other hand makes the game much more fun after gaining 
 the Spirit Walk as the number of the puzzles in the game increases (although you have Talon to 
 aid you in most of the cases) . Another interesting thing in the game are the powered walkways that 
 allow you to walk on the walls and ceiling. The thing that makes the game very easy is the fact 
 that when you die, the spirit leaves the body and after a quick mini-game in the spirit world u 
 return to your body so practically it is kinda hard to get that Game Over screen before beating 
 the final boss. The sound is not that great, the music in the game is not very great. Multiplayer 
 is a great part of the game thanks to the powered walkways that allows you to walk on walls and 
 ceilings making it possible to frag your oponentsFinal words : a good implementation of the doom 
 3 engine in a game that is much fun played in multiplayer that single 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dvs1270
Rating: 7.3
Date: Dec 5, 2006 1:38 pm PT
Review:  This is a decent shooter to pass time. Once you get past the gravity &amp; potals that's it with 
 the new ideas. Graphics &amp; story keep me playing. The AI is not very intelligent or challenging. 
 The puzzles are tough but won't get you stuck for long. My benchmark for shooters is Far Cry &amp; 
 this about a 6 on that scale. It's a fun way to pass time until the next great shooter comes out. 
 Worth picking up on the bargain shelf. I got it used on ebay for next to nothing, but I would have 
 been pissed if I had paid $50 for it when it was released. Just picked up Company of Heroes &amp; 
 Extraction Point, so it's moving down in my rotation. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mattias838
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 5, 2006 2:42 am PT
Review:  Prey has joined the title as one of the best FPS games this year. It as the graphical essence of 
 Doom 3 and Quake 4 as well as the intense fights with demented and mutated monsters. Prey ahs a 
 great story that will get you hooked to the game and will make you play through it just so you 
 will know the ending. It has great music and sounds that will leave you at the edge of your seat 
 (Same guy that did the soundtrack for Oblivion so you know its going to be good) . The down side 
 to this game is that you get so hooked to this game just because of the fact that its so much fun 
 and the story line is really exiting but you go through the game so quickly, if you play enough 
 you can finish this game within a day or two. Another issue is the difficulty. One of the reasons 
 you will finish Prey so quickly is because it a fairly easy game to finish and although that the 
 fights are intense the battles are always relevantly the same and has no real challenge to fighting.
 
  
  But despite the length of the game and its difficulty it is a great game to have and Prey delivers 
 a new way to play FPS games to a level that players can play this FPS and really enjoy it immensely. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yazon
Rating: 8.1
Date: Dec 2, 2006 8:35 am PT
Review:  This game is one of those we were waiting for years. And i don't know what do you think but I like 
 it. First of all I want to say about the graphics in this game. it is good, of course not as stunning 
 as in TESIV: Oblivion but still good. Sound - Great for sure. All that aliens and their talks and 
 sounds coming from all environments. Gameplay - gameplay is good but still has a leak of several 
 emprovements. Now I'll talk about the game itself. Of course the best thing in Prey is Gravity 
 game... i am calling it like that cause you are really polaying with the gravity in case of reaching 
 different things or just to make your enemies turn upside down. i like it a lot but still by the 
 time you are getting bored with the same tricks and things like hit this, jump there push that 
 each time. And don't forget about the Spirit powers. In this game you have no chanse of dieing! 
 If enemies or gravity will kill you. You fill find yourself in some sort of cave or whatever, and 
 you will have to regain your powers by shooting down red (life power) and blue (spirit power) creatures 
 with your bow. After several seconds past you will return to the place you die for revenge!!!! 
 The storyline is about nothing new - One girl to protect, one world to save one civilization to 
 conquer...... in total this game is really nice but still has a lack of some vareity.
  Tahir Yazon Tillyaev. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cerrav
Rating: 7.7
Date: Nov 17, 2006 8:54 pm PT
Review:  Finally got around to beating this game. I actually started it months ago, but I lost interest 
 in it after it didn't revolutionize my gaming experience as the hype suggested it would. After 
 a fairly boring evening of watching that lame Brookers on YouTube, I decided to pick it back up 
 and I'm ultimately glad I did.
  
  GAMEPLAY - Works the way you'd expect from a first person shooter. Gotta admit though, as soon 
 as I felt I was getting the hang of piloting that damn asteroid miner buggy thing, I'd run into 
 a damn wall. For as much as you use the thing, I think they could've made the controls a bit more 
 fluid. Tractor beam was fairly pointless and when you DID use it, it seemed odd that you'd HAVE 
 to use it. GRAPHICS - I'm running the game on a fairly nice rig, so not many complaints here. It 
 was nice to see that huge open areas didn't slow the game down. SOUND - I really like what they 
 did w/ the music. I found myself getting into the later half mostly due to the energetic and dramatic 
 score. Okay, perhaps the story helped a tad, but the music really stands out in the final moments 
 of the game. Sounds FX seemed fairly standard. Do I even need to mention the lame voice-acting 
 for the 'aliens' ? I did appreciate the fact that the aliens go from calling you Human in the beginning 
 of the game to calling you Warrior in the later parts.
  
  VALUE - Well, when the game is done, it's done. I guess there's a hard difficulty that unlocks 
 after you beat it, but I'm not too interested in experiencing such. Gotta admit, I did go back 
 and play the boss battle that involved a certain central character. I like screaming.
  
  TILT - Not quite what I was expecting, but it did earn points in the end. I'm looking forward to 
 a sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sturdyboard
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 17, 2006 4:43 pm PT
Review:  Prey is one of the best shooters that I've played. The game has a great storyline, and has unique 
 gameplay elements like wallwalks, death walking, spirit walking, and also really cool gravity effects. 
 The game also has a lot of awesome secrets that can be found in the game. The main character is 
 Tommy Hawk, who is a Cherokee indian living on reservation. He wants to leave and move out into 
 the world, but his girlfriend wants him to stay, so he is stuck there. His grandfather also wants 
 him to stay and accept his heritage. One night when he visits his girlfriend at the bar that she 
 works at, a couple of guys start bothering her, and Tommy beats them to death. Right after that, 
 the entire bar is abducted by an alien craft, with Tommy, his girlfriend and his grandfather inside 
 it. They are sent into the sphere, which is a huge alien structure the size of the moon. It has 
 a huge inside area, with a miniature sun in the middle for power. The sphere has lots of areas 
 for the creatures inside it to work. Just like in other 3D Realms games, like Duke 3D, and Shadow 
 Warrior, the main character does a lot of talking during the game. Tommy Hawk makes a lot of comments 
 during the game, and talks to the other characters, too.
  
  The graphics in Prey are very good and detailed, and it uses the powerfull Doom 3 engine by John 
 Carmack of Id software.
  
  The game has wallwalks, which are glowing pathways that you can walk up the walls and upside down 
 on. They are placed throughout the entire game in unique ways, and are interesting to use.
  
  Spirit Walking is a power that the grandfather teaches him pretty early on in the game, and 
 after he gets the power, it lets Tommy move through the world in spirit form. In spirit form, there 
 are lots of secret passageways that are only useable in spirit form. When you activate the mode, 
 Tommy becomes a spirit and leaves his body behind. He is not invisible in spirit mode, but looks 
 ghostly and white. You have a limited amount of spirit energy that you need to re-charge by killing 
 aliens and taking their spirit energy. If you press the E key, you go into spirit mode, and the 
 spirit energies nearby will zoom into Tommy automatically. You can only use one weapon in spirit 
 mode, which is the spirit bow, a weapon that is pretty powerful. Death Walking is another great 
 feature of the game. After level 3 of the game, you get the power to death walk. Death walking 
 is an ability that Tommy has where if he is killed, he warps to a spirit world and fights spirit 
 animals to get extra health, and then comes back to life, exactly where he was when he died. You 
 don't have to fight any of the spirit animals to come back, because in a few seconds you'd come 
 back anyway, but if you want to come back with full health and spirit power then you do have to 
 fight them.
  
  The game also has interesting weaponry. The leech gun allows you to charge it with 4 different 
 types of ammo, which are lightning, plasma, the sun beam, and the freezing ammo. The other weapons 
 are cool too. The rocket launcher, for example, fires explosive grenade alien-crabs. You can see 
 them inside the launcher. The game's music is fantastic, too. It has a musical score that plays 
 throughout the game, and also has a lot of great music that can be played in the jukebox on the 
 first level.
  
  The introductory level at the bar has many interesting things to play with. There is even a Casino 
 Mode That is composed of the first level alone and just allows you to play around with all of the 
 items, that is unlocked by playing a certain amount of the game on Cherokee difficulty. The bar 
 has a jukebox with a cool selection of songs from bands like Hailfax, Heart, and Judas Priest. 
 There are bathrooms with working toilets, mirrors, light switches, sinks, and more! The enemies 
 are great, too! They each have roles inside the sphere. For example, the mutilated humans work 
 on carrying containers around the ship. The hunters keep control of the other organisms on the 
 sphere. The hunters have alien pistol weapons, and are one of the most common enemies in the game. 
 There are lots of other cool enemies, like the gasbag.
  
  Overall, the game is a great experience, and is another 3D Realms masterpiece! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pcbuilder
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 13, 2006 9:48 am PT
Review:  This game is, put quite simply a graphical revolution.
  You start off In a bar waiting for your Girl to finish work. Cue some drunken idiots making a move 
 and you killing them. Doesn't sound that great does it. Until suddenly the whole bar starts glowing 
 green and then what else but you, your girlfriend and your grandfather being abducted onto a giant 
 spaceship. You somehow escape but as per usual your girl need to be rescued. From this moment on 
 you will need to fight your way through a maze and some of the ugliest geezers you have ever seen. 
 Guns are a new innovation. Your guns are actually alive they will move and look at you. To explain 
 anymore of the story would spoil it. But there are a few Poblems.
  
  1 is enemy AI.. it is poor even on the bosses but this doesn't really matter as you will still 
 end up dying due to the sheer number of aliens they will throw at you.
  2 is the lifespan. Now if you like a game with a lifespan of around ten hours this is perfect but 
 i personally prefer a game with a bit more depth...
  
  This game is quite brilliant though and you will not be dissapointed. The graphics providing you 
 have a FAIRLY decent Graphics card will be better than the xbox 360 version by miles. ENJOY 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mysanthrope
Rating: 5.3
Date: Nov 12, 2006 7:43 am PT
Review:  I finished PREY single-player, and if I had to sum it all up in one word... it would be TEDIOUS.
 
  
  It seemed like every 15 mins, your character believes it is over, or almost over, and then that 
 stupid woman's voice comes on, saying, No! Its FAR from over! I was just like... Come on- End already! 
 
  
  The AI sucks, the bad guys cant miss, and dying often is unavoidable but meaningless. So it boils 
 down to dying a bunch, but regenerating your health in the spirit world, and then just keep shooting 
 until everything is dead. But since you simply cant dodge ANYTHING, and you NEVER run out of ammo, 
 it becomes a game of hide on the other side of a pillar (if there is one) , and try to kill them 
 faster and more times than they kill YOU. Having played and enjoyed many other shooters, I would 
 say that this game really doesn't require much skill in comparison. There is no way to lose, unless 
 one of the lame puzzles actually stump you enough to give up.
  
  In the end, you always die... dozens of time, which makes me suspect this is why they HAD to include 
 that health-regaining spirit-world-thingy. It had to be that easy to get back in the game, or you 
 would simply get fed up and punch your monitor. SOOOOO tedious. Add-in the lame dialogue, and acting... 
 and I couldn't wait for it to end.
  
  Many players were pleased that the main character was a Native American. That just felt like a 
 gimmick to give him the spirit-powers or something like it. Whatever.
  
  Another main ingredient of this game was its puzzles, I suppose. But none of them stumped me for 
 more than a few seconds. They just took time, and more annoyingly, they brought the unimpressive 
 action to a screeching halt- which really didn't help. I'm sure some people enjoy this type of 
 distraction in the middle of an action game, but it certainly wasn't the cream in MY coffee. I 
 would have to laugh if anyone found them challenging or even stimulating. I wondered if they made 
 them so easy to make the game accessible to a younger audience... but that couldn't be- what with 
 all the cursing your character does. (The cursing didn't bother me, if you were wondering)
  
  Anyway... you might wonder why I kept at it... Well, there are some favorable reviews here 
 (if you enjoyed it- cool) , and I heard the game was short (could have been much shorter) , and now 
 I don't have to wonder if it gets any better.
  
  Well, I paid my 40 bucks, so I figure that I might as well try the MultiPREYer . (Ugh.) From what 
 I hear, it is very good if not vomit-inducing, what with the use of its gravity tricks and all. 
 Puzzles should be absent here, and skill will be more of a factor since you are up against other 
 players, but I still don't feel very excited, because the weapons also fell short of anything spectacular. 
 They seem to have NO effect on anything they hit, unless that creature actually dies. They could 
 learn a real lesson from FEAR, which really got that aspect right.
  
  Well... here goes.
  
  My favorite Single-Player FPS games: F. E. A. R. &amp; Call of Duty. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FreemanHL2
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 6, 2006 11:15 pm PT
Review:  Well I havent written a review before so here goes. I picked PREY up from my local EB Games last 
 week for $25 ( a bargain ) and I must say its worth more... so definately worth buying at this 
 price.
  
  STORY:
  The game starts out in a bar (or saloon) on an indian reserve. You play as tommy, an american indian 
 who is pretty pissed off with his life on the reserve and just wants to take his girlfriend and 
 get the hell out of there. The game starts of with a small fight at the bar quickly followed by 
 a stereotypical alien 'abduction' with everyone being transported into a space ship via tractor 
 beams of some description. From here on most of the story is very basic and revolves around saving 
 tommys girlfriend from the aliens and eventually defeating them to save the entire planet.
  
  Gameplay:
  Tommy can interact with almost everything in the environment, physics is also 
 good, but the alien spaceship is (for the most part) a cramped, corridor style environment and 
 can get repetative at times (Think DOOM 3) . That being said, the developers have included alot 
 of gameplay elements that make PREY stand out from the competition. For instance, the ability to 
 walk on walls and ceilings along special 'pathways' and actually change the direction of gravity 
 adds an interesting (and sometimes neausiating) puzzle element to the game. A large part of gameplay 
 also surrounds the many 'portals' found in the gaming environment, wich let you instantly travel 
 to other locations. After awhile you may find yourself having to take a break, because PREY really 
 doesnt let up, the rollercoaster ride of portals and walking upside down never seems to stop and 
 at times can become fatiguing.
  
  Another important part of the game is 'spirit walk' wich is basically leaving your body behind 
 and walking around the game environment in 'sprit' form. While in spirit walk your only weapon 
 is the bow, you can walk through most of the alien shields wich would normaly block your path, 
 and there are also some hidden 'pathways' you can walk along to reach some areas (your body can 
 still take damage in spirit form) . All in all this works fairly well and adds variety to the gameplay. 
 Another interesting part of the game is what happens when you are killed, rather then having to 
 restart the level you are sent to a 'spirit realm' of some description, were you have to defeat 
 some (very easy) enemies before re-appearing in the game at the location of your death. This aspect 
 of the game is perhaps my favourite, because dying is no longer frustrating and you will never 
 have to find yourself walking the same corridor twice.
  
  The AI in PREY is fairly basic, enemies point and shoot, thats about it. For the most part tho, 
 the game doesnt appear to rely heavily on scripted scenes. The game does get boring after awhile, 
 doing the same stuff over and over, but the story picks up halfway through when you get close to 
 rescuing tommy's girlfriend and later on towords the end when you get to fly a small spaceship 
 around some larger environments.
  
  Graphics:
  I was going to give prey a 10 for graphics, because quite simply, everything is so high resolution 
 you cant pick a fault with it. Its crisp, Its clear, Its detailed, and most importantly it runs 
 very fast and smooth. Frame rates remain consistent throughout the entire game, I tested the game 
 on a 9800 pro and managed to run it with all settings on max and still get playable framerates. 
 Particularly impressive are the organic elements to the game. The alien spaceship is full of life. 
 You have to see this game to truly appreciate the visuals. However I gave graphics a 9/10 because 
 I think the character models could have been alot better. The appearence of human characters and 
 their facial expressions could have been alot better.
  
  Verdict:
  Great game, it's a bargain at $25 AUD and you cant really call yourself a hardcore PC gamer if 
 you havent given this game a go. I'd also like to mention the sound in this game. Not only is the 
 sound quality extremely good but the music in the game is outstanding, a soundtrack worthy of a 
 blockbuster film. If you like first person shooters and you enjoyed Quake 4 then go pick yourself 
 up a copy of PREY. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maxxgold
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 4, 2006 9:13 am PT
Review:  The spirit feature doesn't, in fact, get too repetitive when you die. Instead, it prevents you 
 from re-covering already well-tread ground. The wall and ceiling climbing may make some gamers 
 motion sick, but for the most part the experience is really, really fun. It turns into a pretty 
 heavy-duty multiplayer skill in the end, and though I like it, I think some folks might end up 
 getting tired of it real quick. The wall and ceiling climbing is wild and fun, but combined with 
 phenomenally cool level design, with some great puzzles and some rather iffy, illogical puzzles 
 thrown in, a surprise enemy, and some really cool weapons, Prey finishes everything off with smart 
 presentation, impressive graphics, and great sound.
  
  
  I really like the pace of this game and the story works for me. The graphics are amazing. I actually 
 enjoyed this game more than Doom. The story was very entertaining and a nice change from the doom 
 type game. Overall I am very happy with the purchase of prey. I can't wait for prey 2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Danimita
Rating: 8.1
Date: Nov 2, 2006 8:14 am PT
Review:  Prey is, indeed, a game that you either like, or hate. I liked it. I enjoyed playing this game. 
 There are some things in this game i have seen in no other. I liked this game, but will you? Read 
 on, to know:
  
  GAMEPLAY: The gameplay is okay, for a first person shooter. Walk on walls and on the roof, walk 
 through portals, solve puzzles, go into your spiritual body, shoot enemies, and... don't ever lose. 
 That's right. You can't lose in this game. Well, at the beginning you can, but then you can go 
 back into your body. This makes the beginning harder than the rest of the game. Most of the people 
 think that can spoil the whole game. Well, it does in a sort of way, but going into the game over 
 world is as annoying as losing in other games. And if you lost when you die, you'd die dozens of 
 times.
  
  GRAPHICS: The graphics are next gen, similar to the doom 3 and F. E. A. R games. The body models aren't 
 that great, but they're believable.
  
  SOUND: Prey has stupid unnecesary swearing. Most of what the star of the game says is F... and 
 Sh.. other than that, it's okay.
  
  VALUE: Prey is, like many other new games, quite short. You can finish it in a week, playing 1 
 or maybe 2 hours a day.
  
  REVIEWER'S TILT: I enjoyed the game, and I play it again in hard mode and on the internet. It's 
 indeed a fun game.
  
  Mixture:
  F. E. A. R = Both make you feel like you're really there.
  Doom 3 = The graphics are very similar in some ways.
  
  + Graphics.
  + Story.
  + At the 
 end, you really do want to kill the final boss.
  
  - Short.
  - Not able to die.
  - A. I. seen better.
  
  Hope this review helps, good bye. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VDrakula
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 31, 2006 7:18 am PT
Review:  The game is full of new ideas in level designs and effects.
  Innovation are the portals for moving between areas. You never know where be spawned. The whole 
 gravity aspect is novel idea.
  The graphics look very similar to Doom 3 and Quake 4 (game is made on Doom 3 engine) but they still 
 look nice, especially the lightenig effect.
  Game is really nice, the gameplay it's nice, but the only thig that I don't like is some problems (bags) . 
 And it's very interesting, because when you walk, you walk in diferent ways, you somtimes are on 
 the top and others on the wall. Great new idea. I really enyoj in this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tex_ile
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 30, 2006 11:00 am PT
Review:  I believe that the score is really should be more that 7.5,
  
  I love the graphic and light effects, that is the same as doom3 (I am not sure if it uses same 
 engine or not) , The game is full of new ideas in level designs and effects.
  The guns are new and attractive, the interesting thing about the game is that even in the latest 
 parts of the game story, you will find the new kind of gun; I really liked this part :)
  The sound was really good; I liked the music and sound effects both. I'll give it 10, because I 
 really didn't noticed any weakness during the game, I enjoyed it!
  
  The story was not bad; I think that character types and story could be chosen better and more believable, 
 though.
  
  Overall I score this game 9, because of good graphic ,sound and new ideas. I had not played such 
 good game after doom3 and half life2 series.
  If you liked doom3 and halflife2, you will like this one too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raffid
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 27, 2006 11:57 am PT
Review:  I was a bit turned off this game at first because I didn't really dig the whole native vibe. I 
 want a first persoon shooter where I'm killing bad guys. Not getting a lesson on native history. 
 I want a video game, not a history lesson.
  
  If you can look past that - this game is a lot of fun. One of my friends recommended me this game 
 so I gave it a shot.
  
  This game is a mix of a whole bunch of different elements. It's basically the Matrix meets Aliens, 
 who then in turn meets a bunch of Ghosts. Now throw in some of that old school Zelda problem solving 
 and you got yourself one kick-a$$ game. Walking on walls, going through portals, blastin bad guys 
 - great fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NightLike
Rating: 7.8
Date: Oct 22, 2006 10:26 am PT
Review:  Its an goof game, but the hole story line gets intertwined with another objective. First its save 
 my girlfriend, then its save the human race because im chariki and have special spiritual powers.
 
  
  I like this game a lot but it lacked guns, stealth, aliens, and change of atmosphere other then 
 a ship. Also it seemed like it should have had multiple endings and it didnt. What makes this game 
 different from any other is its warp fields and twisted wall walking experience that overall is 
 what makes this game prey and no other.
  
  Worth buying if you ask me, nothing youll regret getting but the game is to damn short, check for 
 patches on extended storyline be for you buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamerichard
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 21, 2006 2:38 pm PT
Review:  Prey has been under laid-back development for 10 years, and it's nice to finally see its release. 
 With so many first person shooters out there it can be hard to even get noticed. But Prey has been 
 worked on for such a long time it had to get some hype. Human Head Studios said that it'll revolutionise 
 the FPS genre. Then it's really sad to say that Prey isn't much more than the average FPS game.
 
  
  Prey looks great. The game is very dark and grim. The nice graphics helps make the great atmosphere. 
 The weapons also look great. They all look solid and feel okay though a bit weak. But something 
 that ruins a lot of the fun in Prey is how the enemies react to gun shots. Cause they hardly react 
 at all. And shooting at them with weak weapons, and just suddenly seing them fall to the ground 
 isn't very saticfying. The sounds in Prey are quite good. The sound effects are especially good. 
 The weapons sound good, and the enemies sounds like bad guys! The music on the other hand is generally 
 very anonymous, though the main theme is good. The actors has generally done quite a poor job, 
 though I like Tommy the main character. He reacts realistically to things and even pukes when the 
 gravity starts changing!
  
  Prey is mostly like the average first person shooter. Aliens come to take over the world, and you 
 end up in their space ship. Your job is to kill them all, basically! Having said that, the story 
 is actually quite good, cause it's so simply. It evolves a bit to much towards the end though. 
 The only new gameplay elements in Prey is the portals and weird gravitation. You'll end up up side 
 down and on the walls, and you'll run through portals as if there is no tomorrow, but it's not 
 revolutionary. The game is also quite short, featuring around 10 hours of gameplay for most players. 
 There is a multiplayer mode here too though, but that didn't really interest me. So... Prey ends 
 up being quite entertaining, though I must say the flying pod vehicles are crap, it all rounds 
 up as an okay FPS. +
  Great graphics. Good sounds effects. Tommy is realistic and cool. The portals and gravitation is 
 new thinking. The story is quite simple and cool, until you get to the end. -
  The story end is lame. The weapons feel weak. The enemies respond badly to gun shots. Controlling 
 vehicles is boring. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xennor
Rating: 7.7
Date: Oct 20, 2006 11:58 pm PT
Review:  Prey is a fun game. The portals for moving between areas is a nice idea. The whole gravity aspect 
 is novel idea and one I really enjoyed.
  
  The graphics are amazing. You would expect nothing less as it is built on the Doom 3 engine. The 
 enemies are great looking. Sound is good for the most part as well.
  
  The game starts to get tedious in the middle as you keep thinking, been there, done that. It feels 
 like stuff starts repeating itself. There aren't a lot of different enemies that you have to fight 
 as well. A better diversity of enemies would help a lot. The weapons are decent, but only a couple 
 are really useful and worth using. The others are more flashy and just look cool while not helping 
 too much.
  
  I enjoyed the storyline and it was believable and you knew what you were fighting for the whole 
 time.
  
  Overall I enjoyed the game and it is worth playing if you enjoy FPS genre games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nab33l
Rating: 7.8
Date: Oct 14, 2006 3:03 pm PT
Review:  game is goood overall but is really boring to stages r well designed but r confused and that confusen 
 leads to boring aspects grafix r goood looking and sound is fair as aliens have now learned english 
 game lacks gameplay a weapons r not enough for u to go through weapons r cooool and online is fair 
 gamehas goood gameplay at start but boring afterwards game has many dark spot in it and the game 
 woryhwhile BUT RENT IT FIRST AND DOENOT REQUIRE MUCH HIGH END PC to play works great on 6600 gt 
 smooth on 512 ram anmd 2.0 ghz processor game has boring part when a player dies he has to go to 
 outworld for his health 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mark_03
Rating: 2.3
Date: Oct 11, 2006 5:48 pm PT
Review:  The Good: The graphics are the only positive thinh about the game. They looked alright but wernt 
 anything ground breaking. Also the first 10 mins of the game wern't bad, it went down hill the 
 minute you get sucked up into the space ship.
  
  The Bad: Where to start. First of all you cant evan die in the game. This was stupid as each time 
 u wered killed u respawn from the same spot after you complete a stupid mini game. The aliens looked 
 terrible and spoke english. The level design was terrible as they all looked the same. Gameplay 
 was so basic and simple with nothing innovating what so ever. Their were only 5 weapons to choose 
 from which were weak and dull. The game is simply 'trash . I wouldn't reccomend it to anybody, 
 if you want a good first person shooter with good gameplay look else where. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spiderman120988
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 19, 2008 2:34 pm PT
Review:  Prey was one of the games I was anticipating for the summer since I was impressed with the demo. 
 Overall, I was quite impressed and.... a little disappointed. You play as Tommy, a Native American 
 who's unhappy living on the reservation and refuses to embrace his heritage, constantly trying 
 to convince his girlfriend to leave with him. However, he's gonna have to deal with those troubles 
 later as an alien ship known as the Sphere has arrived, abducting everything in sight for use as 
 energy for "The Mother." Tommy is forced to finally embrace his heritage to save his girlfriend 
 and ultimately destroy the Sphere. The story is pretty well-written even though it falls into the 
 familiar "save-the-world" formula and will keep you interested throughout. It also takes advantage 
 of Native-American folklore and culture, combining it with a science-fiction twist that fits seamlessly. 
 The graphics look very similar to Doom 3 and Quake 4 due to the game using the same engine but 
 everything is nice and detailed, giving the Sphere a unique look of its own. The sound is good 
 too with great voice acting, though some of it falls into the whole Native American stereotype. 
 The touted feature of how the game will manipulate gravity is implemented well, though doesn't 
 fully utilizes it to its full potential. The use of portals is all right though basically they're 
 just fancy doors. Enemy AI is not that great and I didn't really see them take advantage of the 
 portals to try and flank me. There's also the issue with dying. Instead of a game over screen or 
 a reload game screen, you'll whisked away to the spirit world you'll use your spirit bow to battle 
 red and blue winged demons. Killing them adds either health or spirit energy and after 30 seconds 
 you'll be back in the real world. This is a somewhat mixed gameplay mechanic with me cause it makes 
 the game easier overall since there's no pressure. Despite that, the game is very well done after 
 being in development since 1995 and it's worth playing. It's not a long game but hopefully Prey 
 2 will build on the ideas shown here and deliver the game that is closer to what the developers 
 had envisioned.
  
  *Revised review to reflect my current review standards.* 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HTWingnut
Rating: 8.2
Date: Oct 6, 2006 5:52 pm PT
Review:  I'll make this short, but I just want to say that I am not an avid FPS gamer. I prefer RTS and 
 Combat Flight Simulation games. Although the demo was so-so, I was looking for a new game so bit 
 and bought Prey. I was very pleasantly surprised a how much fun it was.
  
  While the premise is about American Indian heritage, this was no Cowboys and Indians game. It is 
 a space shooter, where an American Indian finds his roots and uses his powers to help save the 
 human race. The levels are varied, and several quite fun. Overall the game was not too difficult, 
 and even the bosses could be beat if you figure out the little tricks to down them quickly.
  
  Graphically, this game was stunning. The added features like jump portals to jump from one 
 area to another instantaneously was pretty neat, and the gravity walks while annoying at times, 
 were fun once you figured out to use them to your advantage.
  
  I didn't spend much time with multiplayer, but it seems that multiprey adds additonal challenges 
 as well using their portals and gravity walks.
  
  Overall, I wouldn't say it was the best FPS game I've ever played, but it is a definite must not 
 miss title. Go get it, you'll love it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: javierloco18
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 6, 2006 2:02 pm PT
Review:  - Graphics -
  While I'm not the biggest fan of the Doom 3 engine, and the contrivances it's already seemed to 
 spawn (pun intended) , it's never looked better. From the glow of the anti-grav pads to the intricacies 
 of each gun, this game will tax your video card and your threshold for shiny textures and intestinally-motivated 
 level decor. To put it simply, the games graphics more than suit the purpose in surrounding you 
 with an advanced, organic, revolting experience aboard an alien vessel/planet/whatever.
  
  It's not my favorite game, but is really nice, the gameplay it's nice, but the only thig that I 
 don't like was that when you hit a boss, there's a lot of blood. And it's very interesting, because 
 when you walk, you walk in diferent ways, you somtimes are on the top and others on the wall. I 
 like it, but Prince of Persia Rules!!!!!!!!!!! jajajaja jajajaja, Im just kidding
  
  Ambious proyect!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bybeach
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 6, 2006 11:21 am PT
Review:  Ya` know, i`m going to aim high, and meet the 8.3 average. Mostly, because I think gamespot reviewer 
 just plain way under-rated this game, in the overall . I cirtaintly found it to be harder to play, tho` 
 much of that was catching on to the weapons. And yes, some (which were otherwise my favorites, ie, 
 the rifle, the 'heavy machine gun') were probably purposfully under strength. Eventually, I understood 
 the leach gun, and aspects (avoiding all that splash back however!!) of the others.,
  Tommy pissed off some ppl. He wasn`t a mystical Cherokee, he was jus` some dude who wanted out of 
 a confining life. His grandfather seemed like a determined kook, who I immediatey liked. He knew 
 beforehand (I assume) he was going to lose his life. Course that, after pain, would put him in the 
 spirit world, not bad really, too old to party in this world, so to speak. But he could sure rock 
 in the next.
  So Tommy was suppossed to be a jerk, low self esteem, his life revolved around Jen. He felt like 
 a loser, and violently said so, when he kicked the biker`s asses. Nasty. It eventually became the 
 classic 'rip your life apart, now you finally see' routine. In loosing Jen, he then sets out to 
 be that 'mystical' Cherokee, tho` don`t expect that to be too well developed by the game, this a 
 straight FPS, not a hybrid. Those 'seven trials' sure got over in a hurry.
  Furthermore, all the monsters teleporting in at times really gave me a bad time (and having to shoot 
 the dishonored increasingly boring) all forced me to efficiently learn the weapons, read, reread 
 about them.
  Now, the graphics were great. sometimes a simple corridor crawl, but they really tried , and did, 
 throw in a lot of colour and design concept. What someone called'icky-cool.' I`m very impressed 
 w/ the doom engine, graphically, found this much better than Doom 3 or Quake four, strictly referring 
 to graphics/concept.
  Oh, and the piloting, made sense once you got used, and I liked those sequences much more than Quake 
 4`s vehicle sections.
  The end boss fight, by now, they all seem tedious. You eventually win, listen to the bad guy/girls 
 monologue, and it really was jus` another system shock 2, variation of ending, except Mother wasn`t 
 coming back. Still, a decision to be made on the part of Tommy.
  Things I didn`t like, learning the weapons (poor me) and it got a little tedious at times, all FPS 
 do, thats why hybrids appeal to me more. Hey, and what happened to Talon?? thought the spirit world 
 the endgame.
  So, that`s it, good game, but looking foward to Bioshock. If human head does a sequel, I`ll probably 
 get it, and hope thev`e done the usual improvements. And I personally kind of liked Tommy, he was 
 human, had to learn'whatever' the hard way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DusTech
Rating: 8.3
Date: Sep 30, 2006 5:31 am PT
Review:  This game deserve to be played! It has an outstanding graphic and an original portal engine. Weapons 
 are weird but are easy to use like common ones. The single player is really well-done and it worth 
 the time spent.
  The multiplayer is slower than most FPS and cannot stand a change against games like UT2004, but 
 with the possibility to walk over the wall it is anyway enjoyable.
  The game, like most of FPS games, give its best on high end systems to enjoy it's bio-mechanical 
 stuff!
  
  I played it with a 3.2 Ghz PIV , 1 GB RAM, x800xl 256 MB DDR3 with an average of 45 frame-per-second 
 so with newer system it can be played even better! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Poep-machine
Rating: 7.8
Date: Sep 28, 2006 10:31 am PT
Review:  Prey is a fun game with a very unique style of gameplay.
  They added allot of interesting aspects into the game, especially the whole manipulating gravity 
 aspect which is very entertaining!
  
  One part that I really liked in the game is that when you die you don't start over from where you 
 last saved instead you go into the spirit world and fight ghosts which keeps the gameplay going 
 so you don't have to constantly wait for the game to load.
  
  The graphics really are great and the NPC and enemy's look very realistic.
  
  The bad parts 
 of the game are that the gameplay, even though unique gets very consistent and boring, many of 
 the places start to look the same, a problem also in Doom 3. And there isnt a very wide variety 
 of enemies in the game and some of the guns are very cool but not realy that effective and fun 
 to use.
  
  The storyline is interesting but the whole fued between Tommy and his grandfather does get a bit 
 dreary and irritating. Though the end was really great with a good conclusion and interesting.
 
  
  All in all Prey is a good game with allot of fun aspects even though the gameplay gets too consistent. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: optimalprimer
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 28, 2006 12:50 am PT
Review:  Yes, it's another FPS. Yes, it uses the dingy, organically-revolting (?) Doom 3 engine. And yes, 
 it's been development for much too long for most to care. But this is a special game that makes 
 a solid attempt at pushing certain conventions into new directions.
  
  - Graphics -
  While I'm not the biggest fan of the Doom 3 engine, and the contrivances it's already seemed to 
 spawn (pun intended) , it's never looked better. From the glow of the anti-grav pads to the intricacies 
 of each gun, this game will tax your video card and your threshold for shiny textures and intestinally-motivated 
 level decor. To put it simply, the games graphics more than suit the purpose in surrounding you 
 with an advanced, organic, revolting experience aboard an alien vessel/planet/whatever.
  
  - Sound -
  Wow. Talk about multi-channel, surround me with a euphoria of drips, grunts, and explosions! 
 Good sound is the unsung hero of many games, including this one. Don't skimp when it comes to your 
 sound card or speaker setup. To take full advantage, come prepared with at least an Audigy Card 
 and a 5.1 config. You'll thank me once you hear the sound of a sniper zooming in against your back. 
 The game takes full advantage of modern sound tech. Not to mention the voice acting of Tommy, our 
 hero, or other characters throughout. Lastly, the soundtrack is that of Hollywood quality, and 
 should be respected as such, adding to the ambience, fear, and loneliness of the experience. I 
 haven't heard such a soundtrack that really moved me emotionally since the first Medal of Honor. 
 3DRealms didn't skimp on these production values, and unfortunately, this is often overlooked in 
 reviews... *cough*
  
  - Gameplay -
  Well, it is a FPS, after all. And we've well crossed the line of saturation, WASD and mouse junkies. 
 However, throw in some gravity-defying mechanics and a few portal-based surprises, you get a few 
 kudos from this grizzled veteran. Prey attempts and moderately succeeds by default for trying to 
 differentiate itself from the crowd. However, these added attempts, while fun and innovative at 
 first, fail to realize their full potential (as has been stated by many reviewers already) . What 
 I, and I assume many, would have wanted was more puzzle-based portals (and effects, including one 
 cool sequence that involves, shall we say, shrinkage ) , and anti-grav that could have served more 
 as a mechanic to destroy the enemy instead of a simply alleyway from one point to another...
  
  - Value -
  Without playing the multiplayer as much, I'm inclined to repeat that the game 
 is about as repeatable as most FPS's with a decent storyline. The multiplayer, while fun, still 
 doesn't feel as realized as some of the single-player mechanics mentioned above. This may change 
 with the forthcoming update-and-map-pack, or with the modding community. Modders, of all the games 
 you grace with your hobbyist touch and devotion, this game seems to be the most deserving of your 
 care and innovation than any FPS before it. Take it and run, I say to all those interested to add 
 their personal spin. HL2: Portal be damned, this is the game that could change the way we look 
 at mutliplayer combat.
  
  Bottom line: great game that tries more than most to break your cycle. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blizz_kid
Rating: 7.8
Date: Sep 21, 2006 11:57 am PT
Review:  Prey is one of those games that are unequalled when it comes to single-player, story driven action. 
 You'll find yourself in the shoes of Tommy, a native man living on a reserve with his grandfather 
 and girlfriend, Jen. Aliens come, abduct you and your loved ones, and thus Prey begins.
  
  Prey, in fact, began before the aliens came. The details in the levels are exquisite and surprising. 
 You can walk up to arcade machines and lottery terminals, and play them as you will. The levels 
 are interactive and detailed, which is always a great thing in FPS games.
  
  Anyways, on to the story. It is well told and well executed. You'll find that a lot of your knowledge 
 will come from outside sources, such as the transmitters aboard the alien vessel that are picking 
 up a certain radio show. The story will keep you guessing till the end, and it's worth the wait.
 
  
  Visually, this game looks impressive. Effects and physics are superbly done, and the ever changing 
 gravitational pull is a great gameplay addition. You'll frequently be shooting your enemies from 
 the ceiling, on walls, or of course, right in their face.
  
  The A. I., however, isn't given a chance to show off it's prowess. Too often will you see an enemy, 
 unload on it, and move on without it doing much besides turning around and getting off a couple 
 of shots.
  
  The sounds are great in this game, including the music by the almighty Jeremy Soule. No game is 
 complete without a decent soundtrack, and Mr. Soule has put together a great one for this game. 
 Effects-wise, the game's sounds are at a high standard. Explosions, footsteps, and alien-fleshy 
 type sounds all sound great.
  
  Gameplay, however, is where this game falters somewhat, mostly in the area of puzzle solving. Too 
 often are the puzzles the same over and over again, and they get too repetitive to be any fun after 
 a while.
  
  Multiplayer here falters. The games are often the same over and over again, with one person abusing 
 the exoskeletons or the most powerful weapons and simply annihilating anyone they see. It's fun 
 for a while, but I lost interest very quickly.
  
  Want a great singleplayer story and shooter? Go here. Want a great online experience? Look elsewhere. 
 It's a predator in the singleplayer field, but simply Prey when it comes to multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rohver
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 13, 2006 3:21 am PT
Review:  First off, the history behind Prey is well known so I wont go into that. This is a review, not 
 a history lesson after all. This review is based on the PC version of the game, just for your information. 
 Prey is a decent FPS in which you get to play as Tommy, a Cherokee ho does not care/believe in 
 the traditions of his tribe. Al he wants is to get off the reservation with his girlfriend Jen. 
 Unfortunately, an unknown force pulls everyone up to find themselves in a weird alien spacecraft 
 of some sort. Tommy manages to escape and begins his journey to find and rescue Jen and his grandfather. 
 Graphics : 10/10 No doubt the game looks awesome. Its based on the Doom 3 engine and if you liked 
 the awesome graphics of Doom 3, youll like it here too. There are different environments apart 
 from the closed corridors the engine is famous for. They range from mini-planets, the sacred valley 
 and some of the other otherworldly environments. The game has lots of details in the spaceship, 
 full of alien technology and gooey stuff. The glow effect is very well used. Shadows. You cant 
 forget about them. Great use of shadows, just like Doom 3.
  
  Gameplay : One thing unique about this game is the use of portals. They can teleport you to a place 
 nearby (usually) and sometimes places where you dont expect you to. A good example is on the roof 
 of the current room youre in. There are lots of interesting puzzles to solve in the game. The 
 game has many variety of them and each an interesting one. You have the ability to wall walk, where 
 you can walk on walls literally. Theres the spirit walk where your spirit leaves your body and 
 you control it. Its useful for getting past force-fields, scouting ahead (enemies dont notice 
 you in this mode unless you attack them) , getting to secret areas or those area which are otherwise 
 inaccessible by your physical form. The spirit walk, the wall walk and the use of portals all together 
 can also be required to solve many of the puzzles, which makes the gameplay absolutely fun. Other 
 than that, the combat is average. You dont have many weapons in the game, which is a downside. 
 All the weapons are some sort of organic-versions of the usual weapons we see in other FPS. Theres 
 a standard rifle, which you get as your first actual firearm and it is the one youll be using 
 most often. Later on, you can acquire other weapons such as the crab-grenade, a shotgun, a mingun, 
 a rocket launcher, etc. There could have been more but oh well.
  
  Another downside about the combat is that its a bit too easy. The Cherokee mode is not very challenging 
 either since you have infinite livessort of. When you die, you are taken to a minigame where you 
 must kill some amount of spirits to revive yourself. This takes most of the challenge out of the 
 game, no matter what mode you play. Sound : 8/10
  
  Not much to say here. Sound is good overall. Value : Once you play and finish the game, you wont 
 need to play it again. Sure, the hard mode gets unlocked but when there is no challenge, you dont 
 need to play it again. The whole game lasts about 10 hours, maybe less, which again, is a bit disappointing. 
 Final words : Its a decent game, all considered and if you plan to play online as well, its worth 
 buying. Otherwise, think hard. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: indzman
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 13, 2006 12:45 pm PT
Review:  Prey rocks. Tommy the hero has to save mankind from multiple alien races. I can say a revenge / love 
 story also. Prey has excellent storyline, graphics, AI, soundquality ,action etc. The concept of the 
 new introduced portal system is brilliant. The new style of spirit mode walk by the hero truly catches 
 ones eye. You can ride mini spacecrafts in the game also. There is a variety of Aliens / Monsters 
 throughout the game and they are quite dangerous also.
  You get Various weapons throughout the game. You can call prey a advanced Doom 3. The visual effects 
 of prey are simply outstanding. You also get multi player mode in this game for online playing. Prey 
 has some excellent soundtracks. Prey offers you great game play moments without ever boring you 
 for a moment. Prey is one best shooters available on the market. I highly recommended it to those 
 persons who have still now missed this great game. Prey should not be missed by any gamers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_dreaming_1
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 19, 2006 5:55 pm PT
Review:  After playing Prey, I played it again. Not because I thought it was fantastic, but just because 
 it was so easy at first, I figured if I played at a higher difficulty setting, that the game would 
 be more challenging. It wasn't. It was basically the same game, but with no way to receive additional 
 health except by dying and fighting the lost souls. That's right, you have to die to get more health. 
 Being able to come back from the dead after being killed sounds like a good idea, but it really 
 isn't. What's the point of even dodging fire if you know you can just come back and kill the guy 
 that killed you. What's the fun of finishing off a boss when you know you had to return from the 
 dead 10 times to do it? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yo_foo
Rating: 3.9
Date: Sep 17, 2006 9:34 pm PT
Review:  What a game, if I do so say myself. The hype around this game has simply been nothing short of 
 ecstatic, however in this case, they've got it all wrong, very wrong.
  
  Sure it's got intense graphics. I'm up for that. I'm up for having a repetitive game that looks 
 pretty on my nice 21 screen. But some people aren't up for that. In a world gone graphics and power 
 mad, it's hard to not have heard about this game from an ad about graphics cards or a TV ad. Certainly 
 if this game was advertised on radio, it would've gone a little something like this:
  
  Prey, the new game available on PC and XBOX 360 is a repetitive crawl through space dungeons quite 
 similar to the poor, unoriginal gaming of Doom 3. Oh it's got nice graphics, and blood too. Lots 
 of blood... buy our game... 
  
  TV and Visual ads really limit the scope of the game, really causing viewers to be interested more 
 in the graphics than the gameplay. I still don't even know what the game is about, all I know is 
 that these poorly animated, faceless enemies are evil and I must dismember them in the most gruesome 
 ways imaginable. Sure, everyone loves a bit of violence, but I'm sorry this isn't going to save 
 this game. It really is mediocre in every aspect of the game except for its exceptional graphics 
 which is pretty much all you've heard about, so I won't go into further details about that - I'll 
 let the graphics card and TV ads and mindless gaming reviewers for the game do the explaining of 
 that.
  
  If you loved Doom 3's boring space dungeon crawl then you're going to love the repetitiveness of 
 this game. It's right up your alley. Heck, if you just want a game that looks great on your dual 
 21 LCD screens and your Nvidia 7950 graphics card and... whatever. I'm sure you'll love it. The 
 developers will love you for it too. It's another excuse for developers to get lazy with gameplay 
 and hide behind graphics. To them it's another excuse. However there's no excuse for you when you 
 come to your senses and realise the poor quality of the game you're actually playing.
  
  :' ( 
::::::

::::::
UserName: quakeknight1991
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 14, 2006 12:27 pm PT
Review:  Prey isnt so original. The developers think that prey is the most original fps game in the last 
 years but it isnt true. First their spirit walk is the same as the spirit mode in soul reaver and 
 soul reaver had also something like death walk. Some people are going to say that you cannot compare 
 games
  
  like prey and soul reaver but the idea of the spirit walk and death walk is the
  
  same as the one in soul reaver. And the portal gameplay is similar as the slipgate gameplay 
 in Quake 1. The death walk also makes the game too easy becuase you cant die, its like you were 
 playing in god mode. The game
  
  is also very short. But prey still a game with very good graphics and its very entretaining. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alijib
Rating: 6.7
Date: Sep 14, 2006 5:42 am PT
Review:  A Simple Blaster Action, with awesome graphics.
  Voice overs & Character animation was quite good.
  puzzle element is very simple one.
  Use 
 of Portals was a very innovative idea, and it was quite intimidating to shot back at your head 
 while looking through the portals.
  This game is what a Doom3 should be with its innovative roof walk, ghost walk or things or 2 like 
 that.
  some levels were plain boring , to few monsters/ opponents classes.
  Ending was very obvious one.
  However, very easy, not much to do.
  10 years in making , 7 hours 
 to beat it, i thins wait was not worthwhile. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Charlie2688
Rating: 9.2
Date: Sep 13, 2006 12:15 pm PT
Review:  Prey was officially conceived back in 1997 but finally saw the light in 2006 and after a complete 
 technological make over we end up with a truly great game.
  Lets start by looking at the factors that make this game so great
  
  Gameplay: We play as 
 Tommy a Cherokee that finds him self tired of living in an Indian reservation and rejects his Native 
 American heritage. Tommy one night trying to convince his girlfriend to leave with him is abruptly 
 abducted along with his girlfriend Jen and his grandfather by aliens with a hidden agenda into 
 a massive living ship. Tommy is saved by some mysterious allies and is set in a quest of colossal 
 proportion to save his girlfriend and get out of the massive living ship. Tommy will have to find 
 Jen in a massive ship with unconventional characteristics such as the portals that will sometimes 
 appear out of nowhere and take him to new locations and even reveal some extra resources, but the 
 portals will also be used by the enemies to find Tommy and send deadly reinforcements, we also 
 have the wall walking that are special areas that when activated will allow Tommy to literally 
 walk in the walls and enable him to finds some gravity defying ways to progress in his quest, we 
 can also find gravitational rifts that will radically change the gravity of the location they are 
 found to enable some unorthodox progress. In order to travel in this massive living ship Tommy 
 will also have to use alien ships to move to some destinations that are otherwise unreachable by 
 foot but this will involve getting into some big dog fights with other aliens ship. Progressing 
 thru the massive ship wont be easy there are many puzzles to solve that will involve Tommy using 
 a mix of the portal, wall walking, gravity rifts and a extra one, after progressing thru some trials 
 impose by his grandfather Tommy will learn to spirit walk allowing his spirit to leave his body 
 and reach some special areas, perform special tasks and even avoid some hazards.
  
  Graphics: A quest this colossal wont be so impressive with out some top notch graphics. Using a 
 modified Doom 3 engine Prey features some really mind blowing environments and incredible special 
 effects. Tommy will face the alien threat that come in many dangerous shapes and forms while some 
 are your typical alien soldier others are terrifying human mutations that are just scary and amazing 
 to look at, all enemies are very well designed and are what you would expect from an alien nightmare. 
 The game is also highly complemented with the living weapons, this game features some of the most 
 cool and original weapon designs set into a game, some weapons will be fully living organism that 
 will be constantly moving and interacting with Tommy others will be top notch technological pieces 
 with some unconventional uses.
  
  Sound: Prey features and impressive soundtrack with some top notch music that will set the perfect 
 mood for this epic quest. Also casting aside this new trend of having a silent protagonist Prey 
 features a very vivid Tommy that will be constantly responding to his environments making this 
 quest even more realistic in an other wise crazy situation. The voice acting fits perfectly well 
 into the story and Tommys dirty mouth and clever responses will keep things interesting during 
 this quest.
  
  Value: This is were it gets tricky while the game has a satisfactory length, a special ability 
 of Tommy gained thru his grandfather will allow him to resurrect after he is killed after performing 
 a small trial making the game progress really fast with out some much constant reload. While this 
 is good because some enemies while inflict some serious damage it also shortens this other wise 
 amazing quest.
  
  At the end Prey is a very impressive game that tells an epic tale of love, revenge and finding 
 ones true roots. This is a must game for all FPS fans that will deliver the so much needed change 
 in the standards of gaming this days delivering a mind blowing experience not from this planet. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shugo89
Rating: 6.9
Date: Sep 10, 2006 12:32 pm PT
Review:  Played this game. Beat it in two days. I'd have to say that it's got a good concept to it. Introducing 
 the whole gravity thing to gameplay was a fine idea. It's new. Gives it a little twist. The storyline 
 was pretty good too. Could have used a few tune-ups, but it was alright. Graphics are pretty good 
 too. There were only two negative things about this game in my opinion. One, it was too easy play. 
 I mean, I die, I shoot some flying turkeys, and I'm alive again. Not that much of a challenge. 
 And second, all the levels looked the same. Nothing changed at all. Sure, in the begining and toward 
 the end the scenery changed a bit. However, for the majority of the time I spent playing, the scenery 
 stayed the same. So, overall I think this game is pretty chill; but I'm slightly dissapointed at 
 the same time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jimboryno
Rating: 8.3
Date: Sep 8, 2006 4:07 am PT
Review:  OK, so we do live in an age where we play the same story over and over with improving graphics 
 over time, but Prey takes into a whole new world. A whole new story...
  
  So we start of staring at yourself in the bathroom mirror at some bar somewhere on the American 
 continent. Here already I found the graphics and precision extremely good. This might only be a 
 First Person Shooter, but there is something about the looks that tells me that there has been 
 some great work been done behind the scenes. After staring at yourself in the mirror, we make our 
 way into the main bar-area where some old man takes us out of our dreamworld and gets us focused 
 on the task up ahead... Listen closely to what he has to say cause you might regret not doing so 
 later on.
  
  In the bar area you will find a lovely, sexy girl talking to some drunk guys sitting at the bar... 
 It's here where we get our first look at what we can expect from the blood scenes as we smash them 
 over the head with a handtool...
  
  Thats when all humans gets abducted by aliens and taken away to some alien world in outer space. 
 Very disgusting to say the least, but again, great work... Somehow we manage to escape and it's 
 here where the real action starts. I am not going to go through the game in detail, you people 
 can find that out for yourself.
  
  The enemies is easy at first but they do get faster and stronger as you continue you journey. Also 
 on the way to your destiny you will find some puzzles to work out to make progress. Some of them 
 is not easy, but if you use what you have learned before, you should'nt have too much trouble going 
 forwards. The weapons is awesome as well, specially because you have so many amunition lying around, 
 as if someone left them there to lead you on you way.
  
  The game might have a similar feel to that of Quake 4 and Doom 3, but we have become use to that 
 by now... At least the storyline is good and I have truly enjoyed this one... Gonna try out the 
 Multiplayer soon, but I'm sure it will have plent to offer... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SHUURAI1987
Rating: 7.3
Date: Sep 7, 2006 1:35 am PT
Review:  Prey was a game that I was really looking forward to and when I played it I was having fun but 
 after something like 20 hours of playing it (not in a raw)
  I realised some thing horrible. THAT'S IT. I finished it.
  the most annoying thing was that I 
 cannot die. If you get killed I am getting to a weird place for 30 seconds or so and then BOOM 
 I'm alive again.
  WHAT IS THE POINT IN A FPS THAT YOU CANNOT DIE IN???
  they made a great base for this game and then they put crap on it.
  for short: "it was a fun 
 game but far too easy and short" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: picatef
Rating: 6.8
Date: Sep 6, 2006 3:51 am PT
Review:  This game is a great way to show all the possibilities that the Doom 3 engine can offer, or at 
 least, a lot... It's way too better than Doom 3, but it's so easy, that you enjoy shooting aliens 
 and going through portals but it never defies you at all.
  Other attribute some games should have is the innovation, or originality score. This one has some 
 funny things like the change of gravity centers, of the change of size (for example, when you go 
 into that little planet) . But the portals thing, ia just a copy of the Narvacular Drop, and the 
 Portal mod of the HL2: Episode Two, but without the puzzles they can offer.
  This game has great graphics, indeed, but games are not about graphics. You can have fun with it 
 for a while, you can even finish the game very quickly, but it's not a big challenge.
  
  Oh, is forgot... you can't die. If you die you go to a plane where you shoot some flying things 
 and then you come back right where you were. What's that? What were they thinking? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: corlorde
Rating: 8.2
Date: Sep 5, 2006 9:44 am PT
Review:  I bought the limited collectors edition and it was expensive but it came with two figurines, an 
 art book, (pretty cool might I add) and inside are conceptual drawings renderings of the monsters, 
 environments, and atmosphere. Another book is simply installation and game play guides, or your 
 usual computer game manual all wrapped up in a cool metal box. Prey comes (in this edition) on 
 a single DVD. Im looking for the day that the majority of games come out on a single DVD, as an 
 old gamer, it gets a bit tiring installing games (sometimes several times) from 8 disks. The installation 
 is as straight forward as possible, making a quick and easy setup for those who are inexperienced 
 at computer or even for the most avid fans of computer gaming. Using a highly optimized version 
 of the DOOM 3 engine, Prey's revolutionary game play and portal technology is brought to life. 
 It will abduct your game playing skills and pit you against an array of alien and mutate fiends 
 alike to escape the labyrinth and save the world. Prey will turn your game play upside down, shrink 
 you down to size, and change your idea of the first person shooter forever. As most probably already 
 know, you dont die; you simply shoot for health and power in the spirit realm and come back where 
 you left off. Never played a game that continues even when after you die and I am not sure this 
 will be a new trend or a novelty. I am banking on novelty. All in all, a decent filler shooter 
 that can me you ill if you play to long. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pwholmes
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 4, 2006 11:06 pm PT
Review:  I can't remember an FPS as uninteresting as Prey. Lame storyline, recycled weapons, absolutely 
 ho-hum level design, poor-to-mediocre voice acting, and boring graphics. Polished? Yes. Technically 
 sound? Yes. But if you've played any FPS published in the last 5 years or so, don't bother with 
 Prey, because you've already seen everything there is to see in it.
  
  It's telling that the most entertaining moment in the game comes in the first three minutes, when 
 Blue Osyter Cult's classic "Don't Fear The Reaper" plays as the aliens suck you and the bar you're 
 in up into their ship. It's a promisingly apocalyptic beginning (mostly due to the totally appropriate 
 music) , but unfortunately it's all downhill after that.
  
  Like every game ever published, Prey promises innovative gameplay, and like *nearly* every other 
 game, fails to deliver it. Prey does have three unique gameplay mechanics, but oddly, they all 
 fail to provide anything new. There's a "portal" system, which as the Gamespot review notes, functions 
 pretty much the same way as your standard doorway (whoopee!) ; some gravity manipulation, which 
 despite being *heavily* overused is never utilized in a fun or clever manner; and the "spirit walk" 
 mode, which is never used for anything more innovative than as a remote control for flipping switches 
 out of the reach of your physical body.
  
  Then there's the embarrasingly stereotypical use of Native American characters and themes. If Prey 
 were a movie, audiences would be appelled by its simplistic and pretentious writing. OK, it's a 
 mindless video game, it doesn't require a Shakespearen script -- but it doesn't need childish racial 
 stereotypes either.
  
  Finally there's the total lack of tension in the game. There are no puzzles that take more than 
 a few seconds of thought to solve, there is never any uncertainty about where you need to go or 
 what you need to do, and worst of all -- you CAN'T die! What's the point of a shooter in which 
 you can't be killed? It's like being on permanent God mode. As a result no battle in the entire 
 game is even slightly challenging. You can get up and go to the kitchen to make yourself a sandwich 
 in the middle of a pitched battle without pausing or saving, and when you come back, pick up right 
 where you left off. It's absurd.
  
  The most disappointing thing is that Prey actually had some potential. They could have done a lot 
 more with the new gameplay mechanics, or at least invented a couple of new weapons... but they 
 didn't. It seems like someone with a lot of imagination thought the game up, then handed it over 
 to a bunch of uninspired drones to implement.
  
  I plowed through Prey in about 6 totally forgettable hours and it's never going into my CD player 
 again. The end credits promised a sequel, but 2K Games, please take my advice -- we don't need 
 one! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: praharsh22
Rating: 8.7
Date: Sep 4, 2006 1:05 pm PT
Review:  Well... this IS a good game. Graphics are awesome. Though i feel that the sound could have been 
 improved. The game is overall not very tough.... though some stages and the boss fights may prove 
 to be a big big headache. It WILL be correct to say that the aliens look extremely funny when the 
 speak English (well... to me they did) .
  In this game you can walk on the walls and the ceilings, which makes this a unique game. The weapons 
 are also quite interesting. The conventional weapons used in other FPSs have not been used here.
 
  Surely you would need a GOOD computer to run it smoothly. The overall gameplay is okay. I highly 
 recommend this game to all the FPS lovers....... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: genpic
Rating: 7.7
Date: Sep 1, 2006 2:18 pm PT
Review:  The reviews were not very good for Prey, so I had some misgivings about spending the bucks to buy 
 it. Im glad I did. With all its shortcomings and there are a few, it still will hold you to seat 
 for level after level. The best elements in Prey are the gravity effects and the Spirit Walking. 
 More than once I had to stop to figure out which way was up. When the AI can come at you from any 
 direction, it can get interesting to say the least. The gravity shifting made the game for me. 
 The Spirit Walking added an interesting element to the puzzles. The puzzles were not very difficult, 
 but with the gravity shifting it made you think twice about what you needed to do. The weapons 
 were typical Sci-Fi, but gave a pretty good variety. At least there were lots of levels for you 
 money. The story line was a bit lame, but did work for the game. By far the worst part was the 
 voice acting. Whoever wrote the dialogue needs to needs to spirit walk to a different profession. 
 Though not Half-Life, it was worth the buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spfn7
Rating: 7.8
Date: Aug 31, 2006 10:53 pm PT
Review:  Prey is fun and entertaining. The death sequence is nice and can get boring plus it is easy to 
 come back each time. The character you play as is practically invincible with that sequence, but 
 it is better than a restart of the level. Performance is great for this game I actually mostly 
 played it on a x1900 xt and an amd 3700+ at 2.7 ghz plus 2 gigs of ram. I happened to also test 
 it on my laptop with a 3 ghz intel, 512 mb, x700pro. It ran like a charm without anti-aliasing 
 and anistrophic filtering. It did stutter a bit on high but if you changed the detail to medium 
 it really gained in the frames. Medium detail and High don't look that much different in this game 
 so don't worry to much about the looks. This game is easy to beat not to much of a challenge so 
 don't think you have to be a harcore fps player to do well in this game. The game is not long it 
 took me 6 hours to beat first time around. Talk about flying though it right. It says on gamespot 
 that it should take 15 hours but they must dilly dally all the time. Multiplayer reminds me of 
 quake and it is great no lag on servers for me. Very fast paced also, which is good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TedBob
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 31, 2006 2:36 pm PT
Review:  This is without a doubt the coolest FPS I've played in a while. I just about needed dramamine the 
 first time I played. The Portal effects and the wallwalks are very cool. They mess with your head 
 but thats what is fun about it. Most of the "puzzles" were cool a couple were just so-so. Over 
 all it is one of my favorites now. The spirit walking is also another great feature that I thought 
 was a great idea. It gives you an opritunity to go places your "physical" self can't go. The introduction 
 to new weapons and new enemies are pretty standard throughout the game. Boss fights are tough but 
 not impossible even for "rookies" like me. I tend to favor the easy setting in most games I play. 
 I am mostly a casual gamer. There are a few games in my library however that I tend to favor and 
 play more often and set the bar a little higher each time I play. This will be one of those games. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ICTMaster
Rating: 8.4
Date: Aug 31, 2006 5:06 am PT
Review:  Prey was very fun to play through. I didn't like that it was too easy in the beginning, but it 
 got allot harder when I progressed through the game.
  
  There are some moments in the game when you really must stop to think, cause there are some places 
 you must figure out how to move on.
  
  The graphics are great, I think the PC version was a little bit better then the XboX 360 version, 
 but the difference is little.
  
  The sound could be a little bit better, but the gameplay was very good. There were no bugs or anything 
 like that when I played the game.
  
  My final opinion: Buy It, Play It, You gonna love it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: red_x2004
Rating: 8.4
Date: Aug 29, 2006 6:42 am PT
Review:  First of all I dont know what happened to game spot but they really gave this game an undeserved 
 rate and it deserves more.
  Now for me I would gladly give this game 8.5 because this game is simply different than other games 
 like DOOM 3 or QUAKE 4 you could say that prey has some stuff from the 2 games I mentioned but 
 lets just say it THE GAME ROCKS!!!
  Talking about the story I would say that the storyline of prey is great I mean the idea of aliens 
 coming to earth and taking you, your girlfriend and humans to there ship that is a plant by it 
 self is totally new and different.
  The thing that was a bit unusual in the game that the aliens spoke English these aliens came from 
 god knows and they speak English that is just weird very weird.
  Now for the graphics and game play graphics appear to be smooth, nice, and a bit similar to the 
 graphics engine of doom 3 the game play on the other hand is just plain fun the guns are weird 
 but they make the game even more exiting.
  Finally prey is a wonderful and enjoyable game for those who liked doom 3 and other FPS games and 
 even if you didn`t like doom 3 it will still be a new and a good start to play this fantastic game 
 PREY. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: optimal
Rating: 6.7
Date: Aug 29, 2006 12:31 am PT
Review:  I enjoyed Prey, not so much for the story, but for the game play. The weapons are all very cool 
 looking, and are fun to play with. The way you control gravity in Prey is very innovative. Ive 
 played a lot of fpss to date, none of which have done what Prey has.
  
  The voice acting wasnt all that good. The storyline was pretty boring, nothing new. Aliens coming 
 to eat humans, yeah pure genius. Fortunately these elements dont ruin the game as a whole. Fpss 
 are about shooting. If you want a story, take your little candy ass over to the rpg world.
  
  For people who dont know how to strafe jump, the movement will seem very slow. I think a dodge 
 or some sort of sudden speed increase movement wouldve made a nice difference. My main complaint 
 would be the repetitiveness of the level design. I think if the first half of the game wouldve 
 been in a real world setting, then the second followed the dark, industrial spaceship look. The 
 game wouldve been a lot better. This problem reminds me a lot of Doom 3, and how I was just too 
 bored with it to beat it.
  
  Still a good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ultima_sword
Rating: 7.7
Date: Aug 28, 2006 8:30 pm PT
Review:  The game has good graphics and a good story and has that doom type feeling to it. The problem is, 
 is that the levels have the same looks through almost the whole game. The enemies of the game are 
 also pretty good until you get finished with the second boss. After that it seems to leave that 
 cool-looking type alien feeling behind and starts to bore a bit. It would have been a much better 
 game if they changed the levels around a bit and kept surprising you with cool enemies. So basically, 
 this game has those good moments in it, but it needs to change it's surroundings. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Docto878
Rating: 8.4
Date: Aug 27, 2006 9:49 pm PT
Review:  I love the FPS genre. While this is not in the best category, it is a very close runner up. The 
 graphics are beautiful and the voice acting is very good. The premise of the game is great also 
 and the combination of organic and machine is nice to look at. Also the integration of the Indian 
 culture and the western culture fighting was fun also. The shooting was solid and the guns had 
 a nice feel. The enemies were interesting and fun to shoot at. The game however had no penalty 
 for dying. It was like playing doom in the G-d mode. You could run around shooting and if shot 
 down, just re-spawn. What would of made this a little better might have been to penalize your ammo 
 or progress a little. There was no need to have much strategy since you could run and gun without 
 fear of death. Quake and Doom 3 punished you for poor strategy. I think they should have gone to 
 health packs instead of what is essentially unlimited life. One personal complaint I had was the 
 constant walking on the walkways. It made me nauseated at times and it limited my game time. When 
 you look left and right the room spins a little too quickly for me and made me dizzy. I do realize 
 that this could happen in an FPS but it seemed a little more intense for me in this game. I recommend 
 meclizine 12.5mg 1 hour before playing. IT HELPS! All in all it is definitely worth a buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KenWakashimazu
Rating: 8.4
Date: Aug 26, 2006 8:02 pm PT
Review:  muy buen juego de primera persona, altamente recomendable para todas las edades, al parecerse mucho 
 a duke nukem le da mucho mas valor de shooter.
  -lo del "boss" fue un recordar al juego de 3drealms del cual muchos gamers fuimos adictos.
  -la 
 dificultad del juego es buena, pero lo que le quita un poco de dificultad es la forma en la que 
 puedes volver a tierra, y es disparando flechas a dragones, esto lo hace como "inmortal".
  -muy buena musica ochentera que iba acorde con el indio.
  -los graficos espectaculares, ademas 
 de la buena movilidad del personaje.
  -los personajes muy bien hechos, ademas de la buena historia que hace del juego muy interesante. 
 Vale la pena jugarlo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: black_falcon90
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 25, 2006 11:43 am PT
Review:  I can't believe it,, I've just finished the game and that won't stop me from playin' it over and 
 over again,, it's a tremendous med-long exciting game that u shouldn, t miss!!
  and by this review, I want every single person on this planet to play it, to c what's the games 
 of the next generation like, so let's check it over:
  
  -Gameplay:
  this game comes with a very exciting, well made, multifarious moves and a well written story that 
 grabs u to every incident happens, and that sometimes made me play the same scene all over agian 
 if I miss any word in it!!! And about the variety things u face in this game, they take u from 
 the great ideas of gravity, to the amazing quantum leaps, and then to the scary beasts, and finally 
 to the weird looking very attractive weapons.
  u might also like the idea of the land of the ancient's, as u learn some new abilites that your 
 tribe has - such as using ur soul to open doors - , and these abilities are use so much during 
 the game.
  what I liked much about the gameplay is that u don't get bored with the game at all, as u face 
 every level with some new ideas - such as space ships - and some mid-hard puzzles that gives the 
 game more excitement.
  The sad thing about the gameplay is that u don't die!!! and that's an ability u gain,, coz every 
 time u got killed u are moved to some place where u shoot some spirits with ur own soul, and then 
 u get back to fighting the beasts.
  The story of the game is absolutely a movie one, coz every incident is well written and the following 
 surprise are really gr8.
  
  - Graphics and Details:
  as everyone knows, this game is built on the engine of the gr8 game, Doom 3, and if u played it 
 then u really get to know what this game looks like!! the lighting, shadows, fire, explosions, 
 and the world of the game are really really magnificent!! and what u like more is that the game 
 runs quite fast on any normal pc with no problem.
  
  - Sound: the sound acting in this game is made for a movie!! I mean it, every sound in this game 
 is recorded in high quality studios so u feel the gr8 story!!
  the music is also gr8 but scary, and lets not forget the beasts sounds, quite real.
  
  - Value: 
 no questions, just buy it and u'll c, really worths ur money and ur time
  
  And finally I just want to thank every person who made this game possible, and I must say that 
 I can't wait for the next episode of PREY 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JoeSlayer01
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 24, 2006 6:51 pm PT
Review:  I have to say it immediately: this game is amazing. The storyline kept me interested the whole 
 time, the graphics were fresh and unique, and the gameplay was like nothing I've ever done before 
 in a videogame. No game ending has ever left me feeling so COOL, if you know what I mean.
  
  The gameplay is just fantastic. Wall-walking has been done before, but not in a game that I've 
 played. The portals may have just been doors in effect, but they were still very nice. The game 
 was like learning something new. Everytime the game was supposed to horrify me, make me sad, make 
 me smile, and make me want revenge, it succeeded. The guns are works of art - alien versions of 
 human guns. All the guns are basically small creatures monsters strapped to a rifle. Most of the 
 guns felt great when you fired them, with the exception of the starting rifle/sniper rifle. The 
 only thing I could really wish for was an alien pistol (dual-wielded, of course) .
  
  The graphics are top-notch, not because of the textures (which are good enough these days) , but 
 more because of the art and style. The designers must have spent a LOT of time and consideration 
 into designing this alien "sphere." Sometimes it's gross, sometimes it's creepy, and a lot of the 
 time it's breathtaking. But in the end, you have to admit it's amazing.
  
  The game had really nice sound effects, and an excellent orchestral soundtrack by the guy who did 
 the music for the Guild Wars games and the two most recent Elder Scrolls. The only thing that isn't 
 perfect is the voice acting. I loved the voices, those shouldn't be changed, just the acting of 
 the voices could have been better.
  
  This game may be short (which I myself like in a game) but it is definitely worth the value. The 
 demo shows you that this game is awesome, just not how incredibly awesome it can be. This game 
 is extremely worth picking up. I may be mocked for saying this, but this is the best singleplayer 
 FPS I've ever played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RIDDICK_2005
Rating: 5
Date: Aug 30, 2006 11:49 am PT
Review:  This game was to me sertinally not worth the pay to me. and i am not new to the gaming world at 
 all. I"ve played F. E. A. R. , Doom 3, etc. And this was so crapy, there is no challange at all, i 
 think i got to the 3rd or 4rth last level and gave up and put god mode on just so that i could 
 get the game over with. I am actually really mad with the result of this game cause from all the 
 hype you would think it would be good, but it was horable. i paid $60 for this game dont make the 
 same mistake. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: naryanrobinson
Rating: 7.8
Date: Aug 21, 2006 8:14 pm PT
Review:  when i first played it, i thought, this has got potential, its got amazing graphics, the portals 
 are cool and the weapons look fresh. but after a while, i sort of got tired of the same old thing. 
 not being able to really die was sort of a downside cause it made the game far too easy. the fun 
 in a game is failing, doing it agian, then succeeding. but when there is no real setback from being 
 killed, it detracts from the game hugely. the other thing is over-use of the cool parts, like gravity 
 bending and spirit walking. cool to start with but after a while, a bit tedious. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deadp1xel
Rating: 8.1
Date: Aug 21, 2006 6:23 pm PT
Review:  I wasn't interested in this game until i found myself playing the demo.
  It is definitly not the best A. I. around, but the stunning graphics and twisted
  gameplay make 
 up for it. All the weird living alien weapons, portals, mind bending gravity passage and puzzles 
 give a sense of freshness into the genre.
  If the plot is the priority for you in a game then it"s not here you"re gonna get it.
  If you're 
 a fan of either Quake, Doom or any FPs and you have the PC for it then
  get this one. Hey, it"s the only good PC FPS of the summer.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 4mek
Rating: 7.8
Date: Aug 20, 2006 10:16 am PT
Review:  I don't usually agree with the critics but they have this one right on. The game has great graphics 
 and sound and the gravity play and spirit walker mode are really cool. Like the critics say, the 
 game lacks any AI and the game is straight forward. Except for the lack of a challenge and surprise 
 from the AI like FEAR, Prey has a great deal of elements from Myst where you have to solve a puzzle 
 to advance. This is most annoyance is in the final boss battle level where before you can challenge 
 "MOTHER" you have extremely limited movement to solve a puzzle to advance. So much of an annoyance 
 that I did not bother the finish the final boss level. I sure hope they make improvement before 
 releasing an add-on or entire Prey 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: El_Jarvo
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 19, 2006 10:17 am PT
Review:  In the past couple of years, thereve been some pretty breath-taking games released. Resident Evil 
 4, Half-Life 2 and FarCry are just some of the amazing titles to bless retailers shelves in the 
 21st Century. These games, when released, were instant classics, and will remain classics until 
 we actually start to be able to feel the sweet squish of virtual Goombas beneath our hyper-technologically 
 clad feet. And so, games developers have come up with a challenge. Games like RE4 and HL2 set the 
 bar pretty high when it comes to whats outstanding and whats average, therefore making it somewhat 
 difficult for designers to take their audiences breaths away. However, Prey has not only managed 
 to jump well over the bar, but has raised it that extra notch higher whilst doing so.
  Preys storyline goes like this. Big nasty aliens come down and abduct our hero Tommy, his girlfriend 
 Jen and his Grandfather Enisi. Anyway, Tommy manages to escape and heads off through the Alien 
 spaceships eerie corridors in search of Jen and Enisi. However, he soon learns that he has bigger 
 problems than just rescuing the ones he loves
  Okay, so admittedly Prey doesnt have the most innovative storyline ever. In fact, its relatively 
 basic. at first. Later on, things start to get a little more complicated what with spirits and 
 all that shabazz. However, Preys storyline, however basic, is solid, and will keep you pressing 
 forward through the game just to see what happens next.
  Now before I go on to talk about Preys game play etc,. I need to mention the graphics in the game. 
 Remember Half-Life 2? Remember how graphically astounding that was? Forget it. Preys graphics 
 absolutely kicks Half-Life 2s ass everywhere. I usually dont consider graphics when playing a 
 game because Im one of those people who prefer game play over graphics, but Prey had me astounded. 
 You can see every little detail in your weapons, in the aliens, in the spaceship, everything looks 
 gorgeous. Never have I played a game before that has had me standing in the middle of a wide-open 
 area admiring my surroundings. If games were based on graphics alone, then Prey would win outright.
 
  The game play in Prey is also something that makes this game so great. Its easy to control, as 
 are most PC-based FPS titles, and theres never a dull moment. If youre not taking down a 20 foot 
 alien with two gattling guns attached to either arm (Barrett Wallace eat your heart out) , then 
 youre walking up walls or walking through force fields as a spirit. Even when you die, you carry 
 on playing. Confused? Well basically when you die you get taken to a kind of Cherokee limbo, where 
 you must use your spirit bow to kill the dishonored dead, and by doing so replenishing your health 
 and spirit. Its all innovation in Prey! Oh, and lets not forget the portals! Oh yeah, they can 
 be used as a door and.. as a. and a.. okay, well the use of portals in this game, while interesting, 
 not very well done. I was hoping to see some pretty amazing stuff done with portals, but basically 
 thats all theyre used for; cool-looking doors. However, it is weird the way that you can shoot 
 through a portal and pop yourself one in the back of the head. Fun, but if in a real-life situation, 
 not advisable.
  The sounds in Prey are also pretty cool. You can hear engines running, pieces of flesh squelching 
 and blood splattering, so again the attention to detail is magnificent. The voice-acting in Prey 
 is also brilliant, which is good because bad voice-acting can spoil a game (Final Fantasy X-2 anyone?) . 
 Whilst playing games, I always take notice of the games music, and how well it is used, and Preys 
 use of music can be compared to that of Lord of the Rings. In other words, its amazing. The music 
 really shines through whilst fighting bosses, or a lot of enemies at the same time.
  Overall, Prey is outstanding. Never before have I played an FPS quite like this. The storyline 
 is terrific and really drags you in, and at one point in the game actually had me not wanting to 
 click my mouse to fire my weapon, because of what would happen. And when I finally got the courage 
 to, I felt sorry. The graphics are stunning, the game play is even better and the music is epic. 
 Forget game of 2006. Forget game of the century. Prey simply has to be one of the best games EVER 
 to grace this planet, and, when it eventually lands in the bargain bin in ASDA, it will stand proudly 
 in Game Heaven alongside Final Fantasy VII and Super Mario 64.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nick15uk
Rating: 8.1
Date: Aug 19, 2006 2:12 am PT
Review:  The demo made this game out to be better than it actually is, allowing you to play the games opening 
 sequence which was almost ground-breaking but after the demo everything seemed so repetitive. The 
 same old aliens, the same old corridors set on the same spaceship. It got a tad boring in single-player 
 towards the end. The player was left hoping that the plot would transport him/her to somewhere 
 more interesting. Visuals were amazing, certain set-pieces were very inventive and original particularly 
 the giant planetoid sphere things.
  
  Single-player is short requiring about 8 hours play. The story was not as epic as people claim 
 but it was interesting nevertheless. 
  
  Multi-player is fun for awhile but doesn't do much that other multi-players havn't already, so 
 if you've got other multi-player shooters like Battlefield 2, and are looking for something better, 
 save you're cash. If your after an easy play through a cool sci-fi world then get this but expect 
 to finish it in 2 days or less.
  
  Very similar to Doom 3 and Quake 4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DBROWN9
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 18, 2006 7:29 pm PT
Review:  I got this game in full knowledge that it is built on the Doom 3 engine so I treated it with some 
 scepticism (I hated Doom 3 & Quake 4) . However the graphics in this game are very good indeed 
 and the gameplay is addictive enough to keep you wanting to get to the end of the single player 
 campaign, rather than giving up half way though like I did when playing on this games engine previously.
 
  
  What lets the title down is that it is far too easy where enemy combat is concerned - sometimes 
 it's like playing in God Mode. That said its still a frag fest which is much more exciting than 
 the latest Doom / Quake titles.
  
  The other thing that spoils the game is the ridiculous storyline, even though it is quite novel 
 - A native American Indian and his loved ones are kidnapped by an alien spaceship which appers 
 to be a faciltiy for turning humans into food. Our hero is on a rescue mssion guided by his pet 
 eagle's spirit which had died when he was a boy, and by his decesaed grandfather who shows him 
 the mystic qualities of his rejected Sioux ways.
  
  In some places the graphics are jaw dropping for high end rig users. There are also some basic 
 physics effects and some simplistic Half Life 2 style puzzles. What makes the game standout are 
 the gravity effects - principally walkways which allow you to run upside down. Often this can be 
 mind bending and only adds to the fun.
  
  On the whole given the lack of FPS games in the last year, In my view this is certainly worth purchasing 
 for fragging for half an hour between playing your favourite titles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: game_completor
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 18, 2006 1:23 pm PT
Review:  [this review may contain spoilers, you have been warned!]
  
  Prey is probably the best FPS for the year 2006, unless S. T. A. L. K. E. R or something else comes out 
 and beats this one. 
  
  [medium spoiler] You play Tommy, a Cherokee Indian who tries to deny his roots when suddenly he, 
 his grandpa and girlfriend 
  
  are sucked into a tractor beam and into a space ship. Feeding off the amazing Doom 3 engine, this 
 game delivers an excellent 
  
  lighting and sound condition and tolereble physics (compared to rag doll physics, of course) . If 
 you put Doom 3, Quake 4 and 
  
  Prey in comparison, Prey would come up 1st, Quake 2nd and Doom 3 3rd (that doesn't neccesarily 
 mean Doom 3 is a lousy game, 
  
  personaly i think Doom 3 was more fun than Quake 4, but according to official reviews, quake 4 
 wins this one) . I was very 
  
  amazed at the way they managed to make you fell as if you are the character Tommy. Almost every 
 new thing done, seen, felt, 
  
  or heard is reported by your own monologue. [minor spoiler] For example, when on board the ship 
 you escape, later you will 
  
  see others who have escaped but are driven mad by the blood. When you see them curled up in a corner 
 muttering to themselves, 
  
  your character will be asking in vain to cool the f*** down. They just continue, so hitting them 
 on the face with a wrench 
  
  (causing them to... you know... die...) will get your character to say something like, "well, your 
 better off this way".
  
  Secondly, along the way, I encountered a small door. But when I stared into that small door i saw 
 another room, 
  
  completly different than the one i was in. But that wasn't the freaky part (trust me it wasn't) , 
 when I walked 'round back 
  
  that small door, I saw the room i was in right then (For a more clearer reference, read Steven 
 King's Dark Tower, the drawing 
  
  of the three, which has a simmilar encounter) . This wasn't cool enough for the developers apparently. 
 Later on I pressed a 
  
  button (forgeting that curiousity killed the cat...) which shrunk and transported me into a jar 
 containing a tiny asteroid 
  
  specimen. This asteroid was huge and resembled the moon, even had a bit of gravity. When I peered 
 upwards, I saw a GIGANTiC 
  
  alien- soldier outside the jar, which in turn hit a button and was shrunken and teleported to a 
 mini station on the asteroid.
  
  They included gravity walkways too, which will stick your boots and enable you to walk on walls 
 and ceilings as long 
  
  as your on the grav-walk. At the start of the game, you hear nothing but gibberish from the aliens 
 and all their writings and 
  
  controls are foreing. But you will die. I totaly mean that in every sense of the word. You fall 
 from a platform and there is 
  
  nothing you can do about it (unless you use the cheats, I think) . When you died, your spirit was 
 sent to your ancesters 
  
  lands, where you meet your recently deceased granpa. he shows you how to spirit-walk which is quite 
 cool. Using Spirit walk, 
  
  you're able to go through forcefields and push a button to turn it off, then return to your body. 
 Spirit walk is used to 
  
  solve puzzles mostly, but has two other main functions. 
  1) To kill enemies and evil spirits with your spirit bow.
  
  2) To perform death walk.
  
 
  Death walk is the process of dying in the real world. Being sent to a spirit land ( more of a 
 spirit platform if you 
  
  ask me) . And shooting blue spirits to regain ammo for your spirit bow and red spirits to get more 
 health. While doing this 
  
  you can see your real dead body being pulled back from heaven and back into the real world. This 
 means you are virtually an 
  
  immortal. I am dead serious, you can NEVER die complety unless your to lazy to arrow some slow 
 spirits in death walk. It 
  
  probably sounds like fun on your end, but this actuallyu spoils a lot of fun in Prey as you never 
 really have to try hard at 
  
  anything. In previus games, experimenting by doing stupid things that can get your character killed 
 was a very fun thing. 
  
  Like using your bare hands to smash a hell- knight in Doom 3, or risking your life with a pistol 
 and a crowbar to complete 
  
  the Ravenholm mission in half- life. But in Prey, its just too easy. If I wanna kill a pack of 
 aliens with my wrench, I can. 
  
  What they gonna do, kill me?
  
  This is definately the strongest point in the game, and probably the main thing that made me write 
 this review at 4 
  
  in the morning right after finishing it. The Story. In my opinion, the story was just amazing, finally 
 something to compete 
  
  with the Prince Of Persia series (even though their both different genres) . It may be simple when 
 you look at the big 
  
  picture, but when you actually play the game and live every momment as though its really happening, 
 you can actually fell the 
  
  emotion put into the voice acting. 
  
  Lastly, I'd like to point out that the official Gamespot review said that the aliens speak English 
 and sounded dumb 
  
  doing so. This is a mistake as their language is translated by your hawk, Talon. Someone please 
 correct that.
  
  Now that i've covered all the cool stuff in prey the rest is up to you. Time to get some shut eye 
 and think about 
  
  prey 2...... hee hee hee.....
  
  P. S. I recommend playing Prey on a mid or high end pc instead of an Xbox 360. The resolution is 
 much better and you get a 
  more smoother gameplay.
  
  Thanks to Gamespot and all the readers, reviewers and members. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slickr
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 18, 2006 6:40 am PT
Review:  This will be one of my short reviews!
  
  The good: Good graphics, variety of monsters!
  The bad: Boring gameplay, pretty bad story, too little weapons!
  
  Gameplay: Well basicly this 
 is Doom 3 with less interesting story, new weapons and new creatures and with less interesting 
 enviorment!
  Well i've enjoyed Doom 3 and it's expansion very much, Quake 4 was also similar and it was quite 
 interesting as well but Prey seems to fall behind these two games, it uses the same engine, it 
 has the similar dark hals of Doom 3 but it just lacks content. Doom 3 was interesting beacose of 
 it's story, horor elements, hell style theme and well it's Doom! 
  Prey basicly has no content, no interesting story, characters or anything to keep you really interested, 
 on top of that it's just too easy and the fact that you canot die makes the game even more boring, 
 it's like playing a game with cheats for invurnability! While in order games if you heavent saved 
 and you die it's a bit frustrating thats what it keeps you motivated to play the game, not loose 
 too much health keep careful and so on... With invurnability you basicly rush through enemies with 
 no worries of low health and duying.
  In the interviews developers promised interestring puzzles and it seemd that will have some interesting 
 adventure puzzles in Prey but none of that was in the game. This makes the game seem too linear 
 and with the lack of variety of enviorments, weapons and story it gets boring only after a little 
 playing!
  
  Graphics: Well it's Doom 3 graphics with some fine polishing, the game looks good but requires 
 too high specifications, for example i can play Doom 3 and Quake 4 with pretty high details and 
 good resolution while i need to play Prey in 800x600 and with low-med settings!
  
  Sound: If we forget the songs playing on the jukebox Prey has no music, and the general sounds 
 and voices are only average!
  
  Fun factor: 3/10
  Overall factor: 7/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kyokozam
Rating: 5
Date: Aug 17, 2006 11:40 pm PT
Review:  Well, what can I say its another version of Doom . If you like first shooter
  game . This game might suit your taste . Of course , its has better graphic
  and game player 
 than Doom but soon you get bored . Look forward for the
  game but doesn't live up to my expectation. Same old stuff ... dark environment , searching and 
 wondering for the next exit . Nothing special other than wall walking there isn't anything much 
 that interest me . 
  The sound work great and weapon look wonderful and work great . Which
  the only thing , I guess they get it right . To each individual liking but frankly
  I don't think 
 it worth my $59.90/- . So , U better pray that it worth your $$$
  before u regret like me . Try Demo first ? Well , of course they would let you
  try out the challenging 
 portion . At the end of the day , its up to you ! Pray hard it work well for you. Good Luck !!!
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: baxster49
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 16, 2006 1:53 pm PT
Review:  gotta give t up to m. I would totaly buy it if i could right now, trust me there will be a sequel 
 and its gonna rock, its kinda future turok (at its best times) .
  It is gratly undeappreciated, it has many good qualities, like that thing that hovers around and 
 the enivronment is wonderful., but aslo could have worked on the weapons more, cause they pretty 
 much suck at being cool and fun, it also hould have been longer u know, but the short time u play, 
 its awesome, you feel like u are in a bad nightmare (in the good way) and the porrtalls stuff is 
 awesome, a great great idea.
  
  But its still a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dracogen
Rating: 5
Date: Aug 16, 2006 8:28 am PT
Review:  Prey is a below-average shooter with above-average graphics and unengaging gameplay. It's pretty 
 much a run-and-gun with great chrome, and there's little need to say more on this than has already 
 been said.
  
  What puzzles me though, is this game's fascination with killing children. If you like seeing kids 
 murdered, and if you like listening to children screaming for their mothers and fathers and begging 
 for their lives and being murdered, and -- I'm not joking -- if you like blasting away at children 
 yourself (although the ones you have to dispatch are "ghost children") , you're in luck. This is 
 the game for you.
  
  The child killing occurs pretty early on, and as a parent -- yes, some of us gamers have been gamers 
 since the eighties (and even before) -- I almost stopped playing the game right there. But it bugged 
 me, and made me want to write this review, which I figured would be disingenuous of me to do without 
 finishing the game. So I read through GameSpot's Game Guide, and found that the child killing is 
 pretty much restricted to the early part of the game. 
  
  But in doing so, I came across (on page 20) what is perhaps the most chilling line of any Game 
 Guide, ever:
  
  "After you manage to take out enough of the kids..."
  
  I hope I never read that line again in a Game Guide.
  
  What's so bizarre is that the killing 
 of children adds nothing to this game. It occurs very early on, and has no strategic or plot value. 
 You already know the aliens were very, very evil. You witness the first child being murdered (by 
 being impaled on a bunch of sharp poles) shortly after seeing a bunch of adults have their guts 
 sucked out by pipes, and subsequently mulched by a giant blender. Do we really need to see kids 
 murdered, and hear them screaming to their parents and begging for their lives (and then murdered 
 ) to drive the point home? The aliens are evil. I get it.
  
  And exactly why do I need to shoot a bunch of "ghost children"? Did the developers run out of ideas 
 for nasty aliens? And if ghost kids are such a crucial element of the game, why are they used only 
 for a short period at the beginning, never to appear again?
  
  My understanding is that UK law forbids the depiction of the murder of children in games. So doesn't 
 this just decrease the market for the game by 60 million people? And for what benefit? Seriously, 
 just what is gained here? Couldn't the "ghost kids" just have been... well... adult ghosts? Or 
 the same sort of manta-like spirits that appear in the land of the dead minigame? Seriously, what's 
 the point of having kids die in the game?
  
  Consider, for example, what many non-gamers consider an "ultraviolent" game: STA San Andreas. Most 
 gamers (myself included) think of it simply as a great game and a heck of a lot of fun. But ever 
 notice that there are no kids walking around? That you can't barrel down a sidewalk and flatten 
 a mother with a stroller? You can't fire a rocket into a group of preschoolers? That you can't 
 shoot your flamethrower at a bus full of gradeschoolers? You think this is an accident? Nope. It's 
 a few little things called taste, ethics, and enlightened self interest. 
  
  Write me off as a yahoo if you want. That's fine. But I've been a hardcore gamer for years, and 
 I can't help but feel that some kind of line has been crossed here, and we're all the worse for 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vlad_an_impaler
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 16, 2006 6:53 am PT
Review:  I'm not one to go on about games and forums and reviews ... all that. But for this one I have to 
 step up. This is my first review so I'll make it quick. If you love suspense and good thrills... BUY 
 THIS GAME!! I havent had this much fun in a FPS/RPG in a very long time. Halo 2 was nice... this 
 one blows it away! I found myself actually wondering what would happen next when away from my pc. 
 LOL!! The storyline is both intruiging and more than satisfactory with its twists and turns. The 
 action in the game I thought could have been a bit more. The art in this game is amazing with breathtaking 
 visuals and life-like organics. I dont think there are any sections of the game that are exactly 
 alike. My system is now a bit over 2 yrs old I am soon to do some upgrades, the game ran great 
 for me at about 40 FPS. Beleive me, It takes a really good game to get me to even consider writing 
 this... GO GET IT!
  My specs..
  WinXP Home (x86)
  AMD Athlon64 3200+ 2Ghz (OC'd to 2.2 Ghz)
  1 gig of Kingston Value ram
  Asus K8N-LX (Diablo) 
 MoBo (NForce 150)
  BFG Nvidia GeForce 6800 GT OC 256mb (AGP 8x)
  Creative Soundblaster Audigy SE 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bulldawg8879
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 15, 2006 10:13 am PT
Review:  This game had alot of hype going on about it but i try not to be swayed by hype and get expectations 
 up to high. The game is a very good first person shooter to be sure with alot of inovations and 
 ideas behind it but alot more could of been done with what they had. The game does look like doom 
 3 but better problary more like quake 4 which is obvious since it uses an updated version of that 
 engine. The main thing about the game is the gravity and the spirit powers which works pretty good. 
 You basically can walk up certain paths which lead u upsidedown and across walls n such shooting 
 at the enemies on the floor. Other times there are gravity pads which u can flip the whole room 
 around which is used in some of the games puzzles. The sound effects arent all that great with 
 standard sounds for some of the alien guns but the game does have a pretty good soundtrack which 
 isnt really used very much in the actual game just on the jukebox at the bar near beginning of 
 game. The multiprey is actually pretty good with a new patch just coming out but i dont play multiplayer 
 very often on these types of games because i suck 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ants_pants
Rating: 7.2
Date: Aug 15, 2006 1:38 am PT
Review:  I have found myself being completely drawn into the storyline. Not that its anything new, but the 
 way its presented was spot on and totally absorbed me. This is spot on and what games with a story 
 should do.
  
  The gameplay seems to be pretty box standard FPS. Although the added twist of being able to change 
 the gravity in some rooms and walk up certain walls adds some spice to the game when all of a sudden 
 you being shot at from above, you look up to see some alien standing on the ceiling... wait or 
 was it the floor?! While this does give the game a little something extra, I don't think its been 
 used to its full potential and it could have been used to place you in some really interesting 
 and crazy firefights.
  
  Generally I 've enjoyed playing this game, I couldn't really say this was a bad game, however I 
 don't think it lived upto the hype and previews that came before it, it just seemed to lack that 
 little something to make it really special. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Craig_J
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 14, 2006 7:03 am PT
Review:  Gamespot does a lot of reviews, some are good, some are bad and some are wrong, this game is one 
 of the latter. The gameplay was awesome, there was a lot of action, a good storyline and some interesting 
 puzzles. Who wouldn't want to kill enemies by changing the gravity and making them fall to their 
 deaths? The puzzles are fairly simplistic, usually involving shooting a button or using spirit 
 walk to get to a switch you can't reach normally. Now the graphics, well what can I say, it's the 
 Doom 3 engine for god's sake, it looks brilliant, whoever said that this graphics engine couldn't 
 render large areas was a moron (no offence intended) The enemies look gorgeous (in an ugly alien 
 kind of way) the enviroments are cool although not very original and there are some really beautiful 
 effects. it's great to walk into a room and see enemies running at you through the fog of the room. 
 The sound is good too, there is some really good voice acting and good weapon effects but is it 
 just me or are some of the sounds borrowed from doom 3 and quake 4? All in all then a great game 
 but perhaps not the genre redefining game it promised us. This game is still a solid FPS that I 
 would reccemend to anyone who likes the genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fashizzle13
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 13, 2006 7:05 pm PT
Review:  you will love prey. its pretty much the same overall graphics, enemys, and setting. it is a great 
 game (especially with soround sound) and is great online . the swearing is a little bit unessasary 
 and rather easy considering you cant die but never the less it is a fantastic fps game. if you 
 liked doom and fear, prey, half-life 2, battlefeild 2142, etc, then prey is the game for you. i 
 recommend this to beginner gamers who want to play the games i have said above. and a note to gamers 
 if the acid gun has any ammo in it i suggest you use it, it is pretty much the same as a shot gun 
 but updated. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: acetken
Rating: 4.3
Date: Aug 13, 2006 1:29 am PT
Review:  Hookay. Well, I started playing today (PC version) and 7 hours later the game has already been 
 beaten. It's short.
  
  It's got:
  - Great graphics. (All settings to max) I had to hand-edit my files to enable proper resolutions 
 on my widecreen monitor though. Ugh. Why give us a selection for **** 16x9 and 16x10 if none of 
 the very few resolutions provided support it!?
  - Great models. (For the most part)
  - Wholely uneven sound. The voice actors musta been recorded in different takes because the quality 
 / distance from the mic was distinctly noticible. You could tell that things were not the same 
 and it really detracted.
  - Great gun design, although they all did pretty standard things. Kind of a letdown.
  - Control 
 was good.
  - The no death thing... I'm for it, but it was done poorly. I don't recall the game being particularly 
 intense and I think this was the reason. Death should have mattered more. As it stands, it was 
 rather mundane. True, there was no reloading frustration, but there should have been something.
 
  - Story was pretty damned good. (Though a short alternate ending where I actually get to CHOOSE 
 what to do would have been neat)
  
  After the SUPERB demo, I expected much more kickassery. It showed a lot of potential to finally 
 add some much needed things to the genre. Interactivity! The demo lets you play with a buncha crap 
 in the bar, and I did. The barstools spin, the taps turn on, toilet flushes, hand dryer turns on, 
 lights turn on & off, water heater turns off, soap dispenses, condom machine, the TV, arcade games, 
 and the jukebox. All awesome! I spent more time in the bar than anywhere else in the game just 
 trying to discover things.
  Sadly, most of the "OH MY GOD THAT RULES" moments are IN the demo. (I can recall three that weren't. 
 One was Jen, one was when the rooms build themselves, the other involved a plane and they're all 
 over far too quickly and of little consequence.) The interactivity is gone once you leave the bar. 
 There's dick all to play with, there's no "bonus" dialogue if you wander into the right spots, 
 I didn't find any "secrets" if there were any to be found... (Clearly marked areas to go into spirit 
 mode to get more ammo for a gun I have full ammo for already is not a secret.) Hell, even the jukebox 
 serves no point after about 10 minutes. Why license music just for that?
  After that, it's a lotta straightforeward run & gun until the end.
  There were no unlocks, and 
 no reason to go back and play through Cherokee. You didn't even let us unlock a freakin' sound 
 test, or something. I know the 360 got concept art. (Not that anyone really cares about that, it 
 still would have been better than nothing, though not much. When will devs learn that a buncha 
 pictures are not good bonus content!?) How about a character for MP exclusive to those who beat 
 it, then one more exclusive to those who do it on Cherokee? How about a making of video? Music 
 videos? A freaking weblink with a buncha messages from the team? (Kinda like Doom 3's PDA) A sound 
 test mode where you can listen to the music as mentioned before along with the Art Bell shows?
 
  
  And multiplayer has very few servers, all with ping over 160. No stats tracking, just the same 
 basic gameplay modes you've been playing since Doom 1. Yawn.
  Is there a reason to keep my copy of the game now that it's over? For me? Yes. Getting my direct 
 music downloads which were supposed to be in my collector's edition but weren't. (A fuck up at 
 the distributors that a month after release still has not been fixed) After that? Doubtful. And 
 I even got the preorder... Maybe I can make my 3 pewter figures fight in my old castle grayskull 
 playset from 20 years ago to try to milk some more entertainment from it...
  
  Here's some more things that would have made the experience better:
  1. Talon, your pet hawk. 
 He was useless except for translating. Even then, he was a pain to have to wait for when you wanted 
 to read something. (Assuming there was a landing point nearby. Otehrwise? Tough.) If you could 
 have CONTROLLED when he attacked, it woulded have added another layer of immersion and attatchment 
 for the player. As it sits, he's a throwaway character that has no presence.
  2. The wrench became obsolete the second you get another weapon. ESPECIALLY since some weapons 
 recharge themselves. I never found myself low on ammo, so there was no tension there either.
  3. Portal use was fun for the first while, but you didn't take advantage of the technology past 
 the basics.
  4. Boobs. What? I happen to enjoy them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tempest2
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 12, 2006 6:54 pm PT
Review:  Playing Prey was a nice treat for the eyes. The Developers have really gone a fair long way to deliver 
 some nice and interesting eye candy features that make's this game a treat to the eyes and very 
 atmospheric. The stroyline is good and does pull you in from the start, however it does'nt deliver 
 completley on all the leads it sets out to convey. ie Like The school kids? Why Kids?! And what happended 
 to them? Where was their link?! The 2 engineers who kept running when they saw you. They tell you 
 you were needed but that was all, and what happended to them? Who knows?. In all Prey was a great 
 satsifying gameplay experince and worth playing. Im sure most people into Fps's will like this game. For 
 an Fps i'd certainly reccomend it. Its a graphical treat with its specular lighting and all other 
 graphical bells and whistles. Good game. Could have been better, but could'nt they all! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 465400
Rating: 7.8
Date: Aug 12, 2006 2:52 pm PT
Review:  If you want to play a game like doom 3, but with a very different plot, play prey.
  It's an easy game, doesn't have many challenges, maybe the most challeging thing in this game is 
 to die. Still, it's very fun and worth playing, you can drive some kind of flying alien ship and 
 walk by the walls as they were floor.
  It's hard to say it's a horror fps game, but it isn't really not for kids, this is the first game 
 i saw with kids being murdered, I was a little bit shocked. =P
  The game is very short, you can finish the single player mode in less than one hour. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bazook
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 12, 2006 12:43 pm PT
Review:  I have been stunned by this game man I wasn't excited about it in 1997 didn't know much but I've 
 seen some videos here but anyways when I saw the video game releases for the X360 I knew that at 
 least some really ridiculously good looking games would be on the PC and the one that stunned me 
 was Prey I mean when Isaw that big mutha-**cker come on the screen when I saw that airplane come 
 out of no where and being abducted was totally kl. I like gamespot for getting a demo for us cause 
 that was amazing I experienced more. Like the dialogue is sweet I love the weapons Ilike the dialog 
 for some weapons like when he gets the leech and goes. "Alright this will rock some **** lol and 
 I liked multiplayer alot too I tagged a really kl video on the games multiplayer alot of fun. Now 
 I have the full version of the game and it is so good I love the weapons like the one that you 
 get off that big creature or as I call that BIGMUTHA-**CKER
  lol I like the rechargable Leech Ilove the ice gun that is awesome I like what happens to tommy 
 when he finds the grenades "Ah ****!" lol but I don't like the rifle much cause when you go into 
 sniper it uses the same ammo I wish it had seperate ammo that would be a big effect on multiplayer 
 too the graphics are well good everything makes you want to puke that's amazing not everyting can 
 look well sick like seeing your grandfather get **** up by spikes and stuff or like when tose things 
 like kind lay those bombs like they're the aliens queen eggs as in the film. Anyways now you can 
 see how much I love this game and I'll be playing multiplayer lots and Jeff man why did you have 
 to give it that score man doesn't deserve it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: halofreak3487
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 11, 2006 12:14 pm PT
Review:  Prey adds a whole new style of gameplay to the FPS world and that's well built puzzle solving. 
 The puzzle's in this game are actually quite complicated and require either a strategy guide or 
 a brain to beat. Despite this new style it is a similar game to Quake 4. You will find yourself 
 using the Hunter Rifle more than anyother weapon in the game. Prey's sound/music was some of the 
 best I've heard in any PC game, the voiceovers however were a bit cheesy and sometimes made me 
 laugh. Prey was also like a walk through game, pretty simple till the puzzle's come around.
  
  This game has a lot to offer to future video games especially FPS games.
  
  Should be a 
 runner-up for the best FPS game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Piter
Rating: 6.7
Date: Aug 11, 2006 1:45 am PT
Review:  I think we can all agree that Halo and Halo 2 set the bar for FPS. Games like Goldeneye for the 
 N64 were some of the first to shift the concentration and overall replay value of a game from the 
 first-person mode to the multi-player modes; you played the first player to get ready for the multi-player.
 
  That said, if you wanted to make a great FPS, you'd have only to do what Halo did and then add 
 your own little twist.
  Clearly, the makers of Prey disagree. They decided to leave out huge components that we have all 
 come to expect from FPS's.
  First off, Prey has NO TWO PLAYER MODE.
  If you want to play with a friend, it'd better be one with his own XBOX 360, not to mention the 
 wherewithal to tote it over to your plac and link it up.
  Second, the XBOX LIVE MODE IS TOTALLY TACKED ON. As mentioned, the new trend in decent FPS's is 
 to focus on a coherent multi-player mode, not slap a half-assed version on just to keep up appearances.
 
  Third, OK people, Prey LOOKS GREAT, but that's it! We've all seen FPS's set in dark environments 
 (Doom, Quake...) , we've all seen biological, alien weaponry (Turok, Half-life...)
  SO, YOU TELL ME, WHAT ELSE IS THERE TO PREY?
  This is just one more game that was inordinately 
 hyped, the people who love it are afraid to admit they were duped... again.
  RENT THIS ONE, FELLAS.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: woef
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 10, 2006 5:44 am PT
Review:  Prey is a nice game, with some unique features in it.
  The game takes place on a alien space ship.
  
  Gameplay:
  +Some interesting weapons, that 
 feel like they are alive.
  Nice singleplayer campaign.
  The game is not that hard which is not so bad, but it aint good too.
  Multiplayer rocks, with 
 the gravity and portals in it.
  Some nice puzzles, with use of spiritwalk
  
  -Some enemies a bit too easy.
  Not enough different kind of enemies.
  Multiplayer lags a bit 
 too much
  Portals and gravity are not that common in this game (mostly in
  multiplayer) .
  
  Graphics:
  +Enchanced Doom 3 graphics, portals and gravity walls are added which make the 
 game unique.
  
  -Does not look the same as Doom 3, looks a bit more like F. E. A. R or Condemned.
  Less sharper 
 then Doom 3.
  
  Sounds:
  +Some nice music, voice acting is OK.
  
  -Weapon sounds are not cool, enemies sound dumb and speak english!
  
  Value:
  +Great value, 
 thanks to the long campaign and multiplayer
  
  -Multiplayer lags a little too much, so that's a dissapointment
  
  Tilt:
  +Excellent first 
 impression.
  Portals are also a good first impression
  Not a hard to follow story
  Controls are easy
  
  -No real intro movie
  
  Prey the game that just came out.
  Cya all 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kengi_ikazuchi
Rating: 4.4
Date: Aug 9, 2006 5:59 pm PT
Review:  Before and right after PREY came out, there were a lot buzz about this DOOM III-powered title, 
 so I decided to take a peak by downloading the demo version. Even though I never got to play the 
 full game, I was disappointed at what the demo showcased. The gameplay didn't strike me at all: 
 spirit walk became an obstacle, the arsenal weren't appealing (compared to Unreal Tournament weapons) , 
 and gunfights were dull due to limted space the levels provide for duck-cover-and-assault action. 
 Not to mention enemy ai is a joke and no where near HL2's. 
  I am a major RTS and FPS gamer, so If the demo does not make me crave to play some more after my 
 trial, the game is going to fly right by my wanted list. PREY is defitnitely one of those games. 
 
  Last words: Feels like a bad mod of DOOM III. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MisterManoli
Rating: 7.2
Date: Aug 9, 2006 9:13 am PT
Review:  Game starts off awsome, then after about 30 min. of playing it, you come to realize that it stays 
 the same, every room you walk into looks exactly the same as the room you just stepped out of. 
 you quickly get that, ive played this game a hundred times befor, feeling.. the whole gravity thing 
 gets old quick, as do the guns.. you even lose the drive to win that the intro builds up so nicely.. 
 dont waste over 45 min. on this game.. .. .. .. .. .. .. . .. .. . ... . . . . . . ... . . ... 
 . .. .. .. . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robosnake
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 9, 2006 6:19 am PT
Review:  The good:
  Amazing visuals. Fast, exciting gameplay. Cool spirit walk ability. Unique storyline. Interesting 
 portals and gravity turning puzzles. Accurate physics. Sound actually changes based on where you 
 are and whats around you!
  
  The bad:
  You need a hefty machine to run this at full detail settings and full res. Dont even think of turning 
 on antialiasing unless you've got dual gpu's or are running it at low res.
  The gravity and portal stuff could have been better used eg. you could turn gravity during a fire 
 fight to temporarily stun enemies.
  The fact that you cant die takes away some of the suspense during firefights since you can just 
 continue fighting where you left off.
  
  The ugly:
  This game is waaay too short. took me about 8 hours to finish it adn there isnt much replay value.
 
  The final boss is REALLY easy! for some reason my health kept regenerating when i was about to 
 die!!!
  
  Despite its faults its a good craic and well worth the money to see something thats been in the 
 making for 10 years! Hopefully the sequel will fix the faults and better rest. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flicker66
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 8, 2006 4:58 am PT
Review:  After reading some of the reviews and playing the excellent demo, I thought I'd buy the full version 
 and I'm glad I did.
  
  From quite early on, it's a taxing game on several levels. Not only will you be required to battle 
 a wide variety of strange alien creatures but also solve puzzles to get yourself where you need 
 to be. It's rarely as straight forward as it seems but is not as daunting as it might appear. 
 
  
  Checking out the cracking walkthrough available elsewhere online is a good idea because it'll take 
 you forever without it! What can I say about the graphics and actual gameplay? It's amazing at 
 times: the sheer detail of some of the environs of the spaceship particularly are a real credit 
 to the coder's art. If you weren't getting harrassed by murderous aliens, taking a few seconds 
 to just admire what they've come up with. 
  
  It's not just a shoot-every-bugger-going thing as it needs you to solve various things along the 
 way, the level involving the cube particularly. I won't spoil it for those who have yet to be challenged 
 by Prey properly but you'll need to have your wits about you the whole time almost and be prepared 
 to have your emotions thrown around a good deal. 
  
  It's quite a personal story of Tommy, the cynical former soldier who is the central character here. 
 He goes through a personal journey and so will you in a way. I won't overstate the morality of 
 it all: slaughtering lifeforms of all sorts isn't pleasant stuff but there's a higher morality 
 here about redemption and even, possibly, how our world could be threatened by a ruthless alien 
 aggressor.
  
  I gather the game's development took place over more than a decade. I can quite see why earlier 
 versions were scrapped because they've spent a lot of time on the detail as well as the bigger 
 picture here. Interesting to note the few anomalies that still exist in it regarding the earlier 
 versions. You'll have to play it to the latter stages to see what I mean but they are there.
  
  My advice? Rent it or buy it and prepare to be challenged. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: natasha8384
Rating: 7.7
Date: Aug 7, 2006 10:09 pm PT
Review:  If you like FPS games, and especially Sci-Fi FPS, then you'll enjoy this game lots. A mediocre 
 story/plot was excellently executed, so nothing will prevent you from enjoying a typical gun-&-run 
 experience with occasional puzzle interruption. In short:
  
  Good:
  -gravity walkways, spirit walk, and portals dominate this game. Nothing revolutionary, but still 
 great fun
  -very good graphics, good engine (Doom 3) , and the game runs smoothly on an average gaming system
 
  -sound is very good, tho music score itself is far from providing auditory bliss
  -nice re-spawning idea (the spirit world) , which could make this game appear too easy, but, hey, 
 eventually all of us want to complete the entire game and move on with a more difficult settings
 
  
  Bad:
  -multiplayer -- I'm not sure why the developer even bothered with this. 
  -mediocre story -- but that may not be very important either
  -weapons -- some very interesting 
 ideas but also somewhat disappointing "feel" when fired
  
  Overall, Prey won't disappoint you if you are an Scifi FPS fan. On the other hand, you won't be 
 writting essays on the greatness of Prey either. Plain fun. Enjoy and recycle :) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tidusjeff
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 4, 2006 7:46 pm PT
Review:  Sadly I haven't heard of Prey until 2005 when 3D realms officaly announced the secret project they've 
 been working on for 3 years. Prey is a unique first person shooter that it very similar to FPS 
 in the 90s. 
  
  You know the story, you play Tommy a man who could care less about his heritage and wants to take 
 Jen (his girlfriend) off of reservation, which he isn't able to because he got abducted by aliens. 
 From there you try to save Jen while trying to save the planet from alens ubducting people. 
  
  The gameplay is more like anyother strightforward first person shooter yet it has some interesting 
 twists. Such as powered walkways that let you walk on ceilings, the ability to use your Cherokee 
 powers (spirit walk) and being able to use portals. Odd thing is even though portals have been 
 done in other first person shooters they rarely show up in most first person shooters. It's really 
 nice to see a feature thats been used in Unreal and Quake some a couple other first person shooters 
 but since then their hasn't been any games of that genre that has used this game play machanic. 
 
  
  The AI is hard in some areas but most of the time it is easy because you can be revived over and 
 over again once your past the third level. 
  
  As for multiplayer it isn't truely inovative but it's fun enough to play and there are downloadable 
 maps and mods for the game. 
  
  While Prey isn't the best first person shooter out there, it is a lot fun. Overrall it is worth 
 playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sictiburon
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 4, 2006 4:20 pm PT
Review:  It's kind of strange to see an northamerican indian, cherokke this time, fighting a whole bunch 
 of aliens, only with the porpuse of recover his kidnapped girlfriend; i beg you pardon, sound really 
 really strange, but somehow, this game scapes the infamous label of "just another first person 
 shooter", somehow Prey manage to find a way into your brain, making you dream about these monsters 
 and thinking only on their defeat. I got this game monday and by friday was already completed (can 
 be finish way more faster btw) . Taking aside the story line i was telling you at the beginning, 
 this game brings to the table really cool graphics, great sound & orchestral music, easy controller, 
 amazing weapons (eventhough the're are limited, only 7) , an a learning curve that almost can be 
 traslated to a single line, addictive as hell and monstrous as the creatures you fight, Prey soars 
 thru your head making you enjoy the game as much as you can... btw sorry for my english 
::::::

::::::
UserName: erikos45
Rating: 8.1
Date: Aug 4, 2006 6:54 am PT
Review:  The game begins with a beautiful intro, it has throughout the game much good scripted events. The 
 gravity flip and portals are nice innovations and it has good action. Graphics are also great, 
 the doom 3 engine still works at his full glory. With a good sound set the music and sound effects 
 truly rumble you of your seat from time to time.
  
  But there are is a huge downside. When you're dead, you come in the 'spirit world' , you shoot 
 a few easy to hit spirits, and you return to the living world with full health. This makes the 
 game very easy to play, because you're practically in invulnerable.
  
  The multiplayer is really great. You also have the gravity flipping and portals. It takes some 
 getting used to, but when you are good at it, it can decide who wins the fight.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigRoachy
Rating: 7.7
Date: Aug 3, 2006 8:57 pm PT
Review:  Pretty much every review you see of Prey will point out the fact that it has been a decade in the 
 making. You would tend to expect a lot from a game like Prey, simply because of that. In the past 
 we have been treated to many games that were under many years of development.. and ended up sucking 
 when they were finally released. (Daikatana, anyone?) Well, let's make Prey an exception to those 
 disappointments, because in the end, Prey delivers.
  
  The basic premise of the game is interesting enough, you are an Indian named Tommy living on the 
 reserve, and you don't believe in your people's traditions. You want to leave the reserve with 
 your girlfriend, Jen, and see the world. You start out in the bathroom of a bar, talking to yourself 
 in the mirror. When you walk out, you meet your grandfather, who tells you that bad things will 
 happen and whatnot.. A conversation with you girlfriend later, and aliens are sucking everything 
 up with a giant beam. Now you've ended up in the alien mothership and have to fight your way out 
 and save your girlfriend in the process. Sounds exciting at first, but sooner or later you'll realize 
 that the story doesn't really develop very much beyond that. There are a few minor twists, but 
 nothing that will jerk your neck too hard.
  
  But come on, Prey wasn't made for a heart wrenching story, I wanna frag some aliens! And this is 
 where Prey delivers. As pretty much everyone knows, Prey features some interesting twists on FPS 
 gameplay, one of them being the gravity. Many times you will find yourself walking on a wall, or 
 hanging from the ceiling. You also run into a LOT of pads that let you walk onto the walls from 
 the floor. I don't care who you are, you WILL get dizzy after doing this for the first few times. 
 Prey also features an interesting portal system, which is pretty self explainatory. In the first 
 part of the game, the portals are used very cleverly, but after a couple hours, they really just 
 seem to be used as doors. Really.. flashy doors, that appear out of nowhere. Prey features 8 different 
 strange alien weapons to be found throughout the game featuring an automatic rifle sort of arm 
 clamp gun, and little spiders that can be used as grenades. Each of these weapons are quite unique 
 in style, and use, and they each also sport their own alt fire. Prey will constantly be throwing 
 more and more aliens at you, and they aren't always just easy little grunts. Luckily, dying in 
 Prey doesn't really matter, since when you die you just get sucked up into the spirit world and 
 shoot some flying dragons to regain health.. then you come back where you were and keep killing. 
 The puzzles in Prey are nothing special, since most of them can be completed by spirit walking 
 through a force field and deactivating it 3 feet away. But Prey isn't about puzzles, more killing 
 please!
  
  Prey runs on the Doom 3 engine, so the graphics are nothing less than impressive. The game looks 
 excellent in small rooms and indoor areas, but outdoors, the game starts to look tacky. The graphics 
 are technically impressive, but there isn't really anything artistic about them. Character models 
 also have a plasticy glaze over their faces and skin, which is espeically noticeable in the first 
 scene of the game when you meet your grandfather.
  
  Multiplayer meets me with mixed reactions. It's unique with the wall walking and shuttles, but 
 like the multiplayer in Quake 4, it basically consists of walking around and shooting people in 
 the head. It won't keep your attention very long, after the first few games you play, you'll probably 
 walk 6 steps from your spawn point and fall asleep on the keyboard. Mabye it needs a lot of people 
 to be fun, I don't know.. whatever.
  
  The biggest problem with Prey is that it tends to be too easy. You can't officially die in Prey, 
 because you just death walk for a minute and come back. There isn't much replay value either, unless 
 doing the same single player campaign over and over is your thing. But other than that, and the 
 multiplayer, Prey is a fun little joyride that would satisfy pretty much any shooter fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jesusmartin23
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 3, 2006 8:27 pm PT
Review:  Although the dialog of pray is scarce the graphics provide with most of the story. How planets 
 are created, a purpose for us to exist on earth (food :) heh. It is not the thickest game but some 
 puzzles with keep your brain excited every now on then. In between just shoot shoot and shoot. 
 The weapons are exciting, same with the range of humanoid enemies. It might leave a lot to desire 
 story wise specially with such and ambitious tale. But is all up to you to play it. Conquer it 
 then critic. Not a lot of games worth playing at this particular moment in FPS so give this one 
 a try and you'll be hungry after your belly is full :P.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dspent
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 2, 2006 6:59 pm PT
Review:  I read the Gamespot review of this game and I was a bit discouraged, but I bought it anyway. After 
 playing it, I am glad that I did. Initially I had my doubts that the game would progress into something 
 good because I was a bit wary of the indian/mystical/alien storyline. But it is the storyline that 
 makes this game great. I mean lets face it..... FPS games, not considering graphical improvements, 
 are pretty much the same today as they were when Doom, Hexen and Rise of the Triad came out years 
 ago. Cool graphics and cool guns. Sure there have been attempts to make the gameplay standout (sneaking 
 in games like IGI2, Splinter Cell comes to mind) . But the one thing that makes the greatest FPS 
 games stand out from the rest and keeps the public coming back to the genre for the newer titles 
 like Prey is the story. Without a good story, a good merge of the story with the graphics and gameplay, 
 you're dead.
  This is why I loved Prey. The story immediately had me as soon as the bar (which you start out 
 in) is "taken" by the alien invaders and somehow incorporated into the mothership. From that point 
 on I wanted to play more and more to find out more about the characters and why the aliens were 
 there etc...
  I loved the spirit walk feature which allows you to walk out of your body to reach previously unreachable 
 areas and the antigravity twists and turns made the game feel fresh and new with each level. The 
 portals inside of boxes that led to unknown areas was mind-blowing and the puzzles actually threw 
 in a challenge here and there (although once you get the pattern on most it is pretty simple) .
 
  The graphic quality was on par with games like Quake 4 and Doom 3, nothing really new, but the 
 imagery is stunning and captivating to say the least. The sound was definitely cool as well.
  So I say to anyone who may have looked at the Gamespot rating and chose to ignore this title, think 
 again. You'll be glad you decided to play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smartass21
Rating: 7.8
Date: Aug 2, 2006 11:57 am PT
Review:  Storyline 
  
  In Prey you are a Cherokee Indian that doesnt care about his heritage and wants to leave with 
 his girlfriend Jen the reservation (only he wants to leave) .You start at Jens bar and you beat 
 two guys which wont leave your girlfriend alone .Just after you beat them you see green light 
 which take you ,your girlfriend and your grandfather in a alien ship .Your grandfather is soon 
 killed and you travel in the ship to save your girlfriend and eventually get back to earth .
  
  Game play
  
  The only serious problem that Prey has is the game play .The weapons are great 
 and original they work fine . You will have some complicated puzzles in prey which make the game 
 more fun . The serious problem that Prey has is that you cant dye (only at first ) .You have health 
 but every dime you dye you go in a place as a spirit you can shoot some monsters with your bow 
 to get health and spirit bow ammo and after a twenty seconds or so , you continue the game from 
 where you died . So you dont have to worry because you never really dye .
  In Prey you will have a lot of things regarding gravity ( including gravity changers and some paths 
 that can keep you upside down )
  
  Graphics & Sounds
  
  The graphics are great the game looks almost real at 1024 X 768 and the sound are realistic but 
 there is one problem: why do the aliens speak English .
  
  Prey is great but because you cant dye a cant give it a good grade at game play .
  
  
  
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mcphillipsl
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 2, 2006 5:24 am PT
Review:  Well prey is a sci-fi shooter game and is one of my favourite games. Because it is a very different 
 game to other games like prey and has a lot of blood and guts and has a weird story line and also 
 a very short game to play. It only took me about 4 days to finish prey which i was a bit angry 
 about that. Prey has very good graphics like most of the 2006 games have and is a very fun game 
 to play hopefully their will be Prey 2 or something like but a very fun game to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wamzip
Rating: 7.8
Date: Aug 2, 2006 3:04 am PT
Review:  A solid game with some shiny graphics and some originality mixed in. It took me about 4 (not exactly 
 intensive) days to finish, probably about 15 hours in total. 
  
  Graphics: Some impressive effects and characters e. t. c except that it's made using the doom 3 engine 
 which I hate. Some people don't seem to mind but I find it dark, depressing and ugly!
  
  Sound: run of the mill FPS stuff with some well made but sometimes over the top music.
  
  Story 
 / level design: Started off well with some mystery, excitement. It's all linear with absolutely 
 no chance of getting lost. as the game went on though I found the story got all a bit predictable 
 and run of the mill. I swear some of the dialog was taken straight from star wars with lines like 
 "you must complete you'r training, the quick and easy path will only lead to disaster!", "join 
 me and we can rule the galaxy together" and "It is your destiny!".
  
  Gameplay: good solid shooting with some nice gameplay features e. g. gravity combat and puzzles, 
 death walking and spirit walking. All of which I can't praise enough. The 'vehicle combat' boasted 
 about in some previews was pretty lame though with one crappy vehicle which wasn't very well utilised.
 
  
  conclusion: Good game, worth the money spent. One of my biggest gripes is that all the great gameplay 
 elements where shown off in the demo (which is fairly long) , leaving the rest of the game to recycle 
 the gameplay, modifying it slightly every time. You could save yourself some money and just play 
 the demo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wkduffy
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 1, 2006 10:45 pm PT
Review:  I'm having a very humdrum reaction to this game as I play it. And I'm entirely surprised by my 
 own reaction because I went in with guns blazing and ready to rip. I guess my primary reaction 
 is, the game seems so... STOP-N-GO. For every inch of action-gameplay, the entire thing comes to 
 a screeching halt with its puzzles, gravity rooms, spiritwalking to disable forcefields or activate 
 elevators, etc. The game almost feels like it's junked up with too much stuff. I don't mean undue 
 comparisons here, but I just finished playing HL2 Ep1, and the run-n-gun "solve the puzzle while 
 you are being shot at in an open area and ducking for cover" kind of feel really got me hooked, 
 bigtime. The whole HL franchise is chock full of that fun stuff. I guess that's why I'm having 
 such a so-so reaction to Prey at the moment -- the puzzles and other rigmarole too often pull me 
 right out of the game instead of sucking me in. And often there's nowhere to run for cover when 
 being attacked because the playing field seems so truncated.
  
  And on that note, I guess my second complaint is how claustrophobic the settings are. I mean, crawling 
 around inside the intestines of a spaceship should be close-quartered, but even the areas that 
 are supposed to be expansive -- like the crashed airplane -- seem crushed together. I realize this 
 might be on purpose, but again I come back to the expansive, open-ended areas of HL2, the incredible 
 draw-distance and the horizons, which are so freeing and seem to suggest so many possibilities 
 with gameplay. I realize Prey's claustrophobic feeling is an effect of the Doom engine as well. 
 However, I didn't seem to mind the close quaters as much in Doom -- demons in your face around every 
 dark corner is simply what Doom is about. But in Prey, the claustrophobia gets annoying -- almost 
 like there's too much going on? Or maybe I'm showing my age (if I play longer than 2 or 3 hours 
 straight, I develop a rip-roaring headache for some reason-ha!) .
  
  Of course, the game looks and plays great, no trouble there. The voice acting is fine, and the 
 characters are OK. But the "intentional surprises" -- the entire bar getting sucked up into the ship 
 with Heart on the jukebox, the bloody school-children ghosts, seeing the grandfather mashed into 
 bloody bits -- none of it has had much impact on me or drawn me into the game. Very puzzling indeed. 
 Anyway, I'll finish the game, but I'm simply not psyched to do so. Weird. 
  
  I like Gamespot's reviews because the reviewers are hard critics, indeed. I often think they are 
 too harsh with their ratings, but I appreciate their professional viewpoints. And when they rate 
 something as excellent, I know they mean it, and I know it's worth the moolah. Before playing Prey, 
 I thought their "7.5 -OK-But-Not-Great" rating must be more evidence of underappreciation. But 
 you know, once again, I think they may be right on target... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SypherC3L
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 1, 2006 10:15 pm PT
Review:  Well the Grapics Were Unreal But Some of the Lighting was To chopy at time. The controls were not 
 hard to figure out at all. But some of the wipps and whirls you go through could make so people 
 kinda Sick but it's a Real Cool Game other than that. I like the style it's unreal too I'm a Big 
 firstperson Shooter So I was really looking for something better Than That GUN upset Man That game 
 sucked But n-e Way I would Try this at your own Risk Thats 4 
 
  
  Rent befor u Buy I'd Say
  
  If you are Looking for a Firstperson Shooter until the next Call of Duty Forget about it this is 
 Not what you R Looking for . Rent at your own Risk. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -generic-
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 6, 2007 2:05 pm PT
Review:  I was quite excited about Prey's mind bending environment, when in one moment you're walking along 
 then suddenly you're upside down, as well as the Spirit Walk mode which should have made room for 
 some brain tickling puzzles. Unfortunately, I didn't feel that the developers exploited the crazy 
 environment of Prey and most of the puzzles were idiot proof. The other concept where you technically 
 never die is unique, although it can make the game less challenging, it also lessens the annoyance 
 of constantly dying in a tight spot.
  
  Gameplay:
  The game is a solid shooter where you can safely employ the  policy. 
 The monster AI is good, they will take cover and use their weapons convincingly.
  
  The puzzles were a disappointment, many of them consisted of spirit walking through a forcefield 
 and using a panel on the other side to get around it. Worst still, there are also hints to tell 
 you when you should use the spirit walk! There were a few good puzzles, but nowhere near enough 
 enough. Most puzzles were arbitrary and served no real purpose.
  
  Another thing I didn't like was that in puzzles involving crossing large chasms, spirit walking 
 would reveal a ghostly path right across the obstacle, usually leading to controls for a bridge 
 conveniently placed there. This was highly implausible, why not just reveal a path straight to 
 the boss then? One more thing I didn't like was that they seem to have forgotten to turn off the 
 hints - it's a real immersion killer to see a mouse icon and instructions whenever I came across 
 an energy node telling me that I could use the Leech gun on them. There was also a moment late 
 in the game where a room I was in lost power and went dark, I was greeted with an icon of the flashlight 
 key. Quit nannying me already! Sheesh.
  
  But having said what I didn't like, the actual gameplay was highly enjoyable. The combat was no 
 walkover yet wasn't too hard. Death is no longer the annoying continuity killer it once was, if 
 you die you are transferred to a ghostly battle where you fight spirits and can get a chance to 
 increase your health and spirit levels before returning to the realm of the living. This is a big 
 safety net and I can understand why it was rejected by many players, but it keeps the game going 
 and you won't have to worry about saving. Besides, if anyone wants a challenge, they can still 
 try not to die, the only difference here is that you're not forced to get every battle right causing 
 frustrating trial and error playing. The general enjoyment was why I liked this game, the plot 
 is as mediocre as they come: save the damsel in distress and kill the big evil boss, but the experience 
 in playing the game was fun, which in my book is the most critical aspect of all games. The final 
 confrontation was presented well though.
  
  Graphics:
  You can immediately tell it's the Doom 3 engine at work here, especially in the Sphere's high-tech 
 metallic levels, although the one major difference is that they actually implemented lighting and 
 you can see stuff. The flashlight isn't very good at illuminating your path, just for improving 
 your immediate visibility but the levels are all adequately lit, they are still dark and creepy, 
 although not so ridiculously dark like in Doom 3. I was pleasantly surprised on how better the 
 game played on my ageing system compared to the slide show that was Doom 3.
  
  Everything looked fine, even in 800x600 resolution and medium quality settings, textures look crisp 
 and detailed. But a bad aspect of the game, or rather the engine, is that things still look excessively 
 shiny and have the plastic feel, the human characters also look like action figures. The general 
 level design and architecture was excellent, the levels were nicely detailed and the bio-mechanical 
 theme was pulled off disgustingly well, I particularly liked how the weapons were a fusion of living 
 organic matter with metal.
  
  Sound:
  The sounds were all nice to hear. The voice acting was well done and the weapons all sound like 
 they pack a punch. Some of the monsters did lose their character when they started speaking English 
 though. The music was great and suited the occasion when it played, giving more depth to the occasion.
 
  
  Value:
  The game was fun all the way through and can be worth a few replays. there is also multiplayer 
 and mod support.
  
  Conclusion:
  I thought Prey got a harsh review from GameSpot. I personally enjoyed every moment of this, and 
 while it's innovations didn't knock my socks off, they were welcomed and added some new material 
 to an old genre full of lacklustre clones and rehashes. The plot and puzzles were a disappointment, 
 but as a game it boils down to being able to provide entertainment and not annoy the player, and 
 Prey delivered.
  
  Since the game's epilogue strongly hints at a sequel, I'm hoping that in the next instalment the 
 developers will make better use of the environment. There was heaps of potential for interesting 
 puzzles and combat, but it was not exploited much at all in this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: madaka
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jul 31, 2006 3:47 am PT
Review:  From 8 years we didnt heard anything about Prey. Last we watched trailer of it on 1998. Then we be 
 to get drunk with its graphics. Because on that years game's graphisc are bad. But Prey was wonderful. And 
 portal technology is good. That was being first. But didnt be Prey didnt released. We waiting much 
 years eventually released and be quest to our pc. When we click start button then our dreams has 
 been real. We are playing that and again to get drunk. Graphics are normak for on this years. Because 
 havent much different things. Only have portal tecnology. Next things are same with other games. Sounds 
 are bad for a fps. Gameplay is normal easy. We waited for nothing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dark-Explow
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 31, 2006 2:12 am PT
Review:  ***UNderAPPreCiATed*** I really don't know why gamespot only give 7.5. i really liked to play it. 
 it have a great story and really nice graphics. it is fun when you play whitout graavity or whit 
 less gravity. it is nice that the only one you need to do is take his 'vengeance'. just blast off 
 all aliens save someone here and there it isn't always that easy but it is really fun to kill every 
 alien on your path. i think it is the best on-person shooter of the year. every self-respecting 
 gamer buy this game. When you really like games like doom3 (this is better then doom3) this is 
 a game you need in your collection then.
  
  *****Dark-Explow***** 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamingprincess
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 29, 2006 8:30 pm PT
Review:  in a way i really dont know where to start. There is so much to discuss in this game of prey that 
 ill just say GET IT. It is fun challenging with some very interesting ia. The dialoge is unique. 
 never boreing. The tale of a lovesick indian, who with his girlfriend and older grandfather get 
 swipped along with a few million others to the alien spacecraft. The aliens in there wild way say 
 that there just passing through to get what they started to begin with. There food supply mainly 
 US. ok then. The cute thing is that along with people things got taken also. All the bar supplys 
 that tommy our lovesick indians girlfriend had. There scattered throughout the game and they still 
 work. Yep when bored with fighting play blackjack for ammo. Now grandpa just doesnt lay around 
 after hes dead. No way, hes giving his grandson tommy instructions and a few trible gifts. Like 
 spirt walking. nifty gift if u need to go through a force field and cant. well, just leave ur body 
 behind someplace safe and spirt through do ur thing then reconnect with ur body. just place it 
 where ever, on elevators hit the switch catch up with body on route. nice. oh the walkways that 
 look like wizard of oz rejects really make u feel like ur upside down. i felt it as if i was going 
 up then down. rollercoaster effect now thats some talent. oh if you die no worries, grandpa has 
 that covered also. you get swept away to tribel land where depending how good you are with a bow 
 and arrow will determine on how much regular health or spirit health you get. So you see no worries. 
 At one point you will have a problem trying to figure out whos the boss. There seem to be at least 
 three of em. But you never know. Also listen to the radio that plays from time to time for world 
 wide news. Read the wall, Stand by the alien Information boards they will tell you things. Thats 
 all im going to say on prey. Its not what it seems in many places and ways. Get it to see what 
 I mean. Oh and from what i can see the multi play is awsome.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zappa02
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 29, 2006 7:37 pm PT
Review:  
  
  A couple of years ago, you probably would have been branded as a lunatic if you had said that we'd 
 ever get to play Prey. Many of the game's ideas were originally hatched a decade ago. The game 
 was even shown off to press in 1997. But in 1998, Prey was canned so that the development team 
 could move on to other projects, and it was assumed lost. It resurfaced last year with a new developer 
 and new technology thanks to the engine that powered both Doom 3 and Quake 4. The end result is 
 a pretty standard first-person shooter that offers up largely the same sorts of thrills you've 
 probably come to expect from this style of game, in spite of some superficially novel twists.
 
  
  Tommy and everything he cares about get sucked up into space.
  
  Prey opens with the main character yelling at himself in a bathroom mirror. Tommy, a Cherokee Indian, 
 doesn't really care about his heritage and wants to take his girlfriend, Jen, and leave the reservation. 
 But before he can muster up the courage to convince her to leave (and just after he bashes in the 
 skulls of a couple of morons causing trouble in her bar) , an alien invasion sucks Tommy, his grandfather, 
 and Jen up into some sort of spacecraft. With the help of some unknown benefactors, Tommy manages 
 to get free and you set out on your quest to rescue your girlfriend and, of course, save Earth 
 in the process. There are a few plot twists here and there, but some of those twists feel like 
 they've been lifted directly from other games.
  
  The two things that seem meant to separate Prey from its brethren are the game's liberal use of 
 portals that bring you from place to place and a bag of gravity tricks that are meant to keep you 
 wondering which way is up. The portals are open and let you see and fire weapons through to the 
 other side. They lend themselves to a couple of neat tricks, including one where you see yourself 
 entering a portal on the other side of the portal. Just try to resist the urge to shoot yourself 
 in the back of the head. The portals are a neat idea, and their potential is revealed early on 
 when you walk through one that shrinks you down and puts you inside a small glass case with a sphere 
 inside. But for the rest of the game, the portals might as well be doors, because the linear level 
 design rarely leaves you wondering if the portal that just appeared in front of you is indeed the 
 right way to go.
  
  Playing around with gravity is a much more interesting part of Prey. You'll encounter powered walkways 
 that let you walk up walls and onto ceilings. Also, some portals will drop you into a room you've 
 already been in, but you'll be walking on what you previously thought was a wall. And in a few 
 other cases, you'll be able to shoot objects to change gravity, which forces your view to rotate 
 as you fall to another surface. These segments of the game serve as the majority of its puzzles, 
 but they aren't difficult to figure out.
  
  The straightforward level design means that you'll spend the bulk of your time in combat. The game 
 throws enemies at you pretty consistently, though their numbers are never overwhelming. And since 
 the crazy aliens invented this portal business in the first place, they can teleport in rather 
 than run around trying to find you. However, unlike the imps in Doom 3, Prey's hunters don't consistently 
 teleport in behind you and attempt to catch you off guard. That said, the game's artificial intelligence 
 isn't particularly advanced. The hunters, armed with the same machine gun/sniper rifle combo that 
 serves as your first real weapon, will occasionally take cover or toss a grenade in your direction 
 if you're not in their line of sight, and they'll pick you off at a distance if you stand still 
 in the open. But the rest of the enemies, a somewhat small menagerie of alien beasts and the occasional 
 flying robot, stay out in the open and either rush right at you for a melee attack or attempt to 
 circle around you and fire weapons, if they're armed. None of the enemies are difficult to deal 
 with.
  
  You are, of course, always armed. While you've got a pipe wrench at your disposal for melee attacks, 
 it's useful only for the first couple of minutes. Then you take out your first hunter and get a 
 rifle that fires like a machine gun but also has a scope that can be used for a more powerful sniper 
 shot. All of the weapons are of alien origin, so many of them look kind of goofy and keep up the 
 organic-merged-with-metal motif that the rest of the game is going for. For example, rather than 
 having hand grenades, you pick up tiny crawling creatures that explode when you rip off one of 
 their legs and toss them at an enemy. If you flip them over with the alternate fire button, you 
 can plant them as mines or use them as Halo-like sticky grenades. You'll also get a rapid-fire 
 nailgun-like weapon that works as a grenade launcher, an acid gun, and a rocket launcher that also 
 fires a misty cloud that blocks weapon fire. Unfortunately, the mist also blocks your shots, which 
 makes its use limited. You'll also get the leech gun. No, it doesn't fire leeches that bore into 
 your enemies' flesh -- that'd just be gross. Instead, you can leech power out of specific power terminals 
 to charge your gun with energy. There are multiple energy types, so you might get hot-plasma shots, 
 a freeze ray, a powerful burst of electricity, or, near the end of the game, a constant stream 
 of energy that works roughly like Quake's lightning gun. While there are multiple weapons of varying 
 power in the game, their alien look doesn't fit with their mostly conventional usage. On top of 
 that, most of the game's enemies aren't tough enough to warrant that type of firepower. You could 
 very easily cruise through the majority of the game using only the default rifle, since it has 
 a recharging ammo supply.
  
  The game's weapons are weird looking, but they act like standard first-person shooter firepower.
 
  
  Because Tommy's a mystical Cherokee warrior, he eventually gains another ability, even if he doesn't 
 believe in mysticism. Early on in the game, you, as Tommy, gain the ability to leave your body 
 and "spirit walk." In spirit form, you're armed with a bow that can be used to kill many enemies 
 in one shot, but the real benefit of spirit walking is puzzle-oriented. To put it simply, you can 
 walk through force fields when in spirit form. So anytime you see a force field, just punch the 
 spirit walk button and walk on through. You can collect ammo and interact with switches and touch 
 screens while in spirit form, so you'll usually use this form to turn off force fields, electric 
 eyes, and other objects that get in your way. Some paths and walkways appear (and function) only 
 when you're in spirit walk mode, so there will be some gaps that you can cross when you're outside 
 of your body. Much like the game's other unique mechanics, it's an interesting idea that doesn't 
 feel like it was fully explored for the purposes of the game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CrazyWerewolf
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 29, 2006 4:41 pm PT
Review:  The gravity changes, the living environments, the spirit walk and deathwalk, the portals and portal 
 boxes, are all new, fun ideas that haven't been done before. This game gets a "10" in the originality 
 department. The weapons are very cool, and much different than the standard pistol, shotgun, machine 
 gun, that are in most FPS's. It may be kind of easy, but I haven't tried Cherokee mode yet, and 
 I honestly don't like games that are really hard. I don't want to throw my computer or console 
 out the window in frustration (Devil May Cry 3, anyone?) I've died quite a few times in this game, 
 a lot of the walking, flying guys, and the big guys with the guns have a lot of HP and it takes 
 a while to take them out. Did anyone mention how much fun this game is? It's a fun, original game 
 with a pretty good story ( It's not MGS, but the Indian take and spirit/deathwalk ideas that come 
 with it are cool) . Overall, better than Doom 3 and Quake 4, maybe not as good as F. E. A. R. ( as far 
 as the A. I.) or Halo, but still pretty good. Verdict: 8.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yoitsmehaydo
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 29, 2006 4:33 pm PT
Review:  good v good good v good good v good good v good good v good good v good good v good good v good 
 good v good good v good good v good good v good good v good good v good good v good good v good 
 good v good good v good good v good good v good good v good good v good good v good good v good 
 good v good good v good good v good good v good good v good good v good good v good good v good 
 good v good good v good good v good good v good good v good good v good good v good good v good 
 good v good good v good good v good good v good good v good good v good good v good good v good 
 good v good good v good good v good good v good 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shatilov
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jul 29, 2006 12:29 pm PT
Review:  The Good : Great looking graphics that remind u of Doom 3 espasially that they had the help of 
 Id Software ( the ones responsible for making Doom 3 engine ) but the gome dont run onn the same 
 engine , but on one that looks like it that have a new shader option into it that make it have 
 a view other than that of Doom 3 . . As to the sound , it is great , u can choose between making 
 a Stereo mod or Sorround mod . As to the gameplay it is good . 
  
  The Bad : The Gameplay is kinda dull , since it is like a puzzile solving game , were u must shoot 
 a gravity icon on the left , or another one on the right or one above u or below u , the game get 
 so weird sometimes were u get in a box & go into another one to see urself moving in a circle of 
 boxes . The soudn isnt impressive at all , were u cant get to use EAX in this game , & if u want 
 to use it , then u must update it to the latest fversion ( update ur Open AL version of ur soundcard 
 ) , this shows that this game isn't compatable with soundcards that aren't updated to the latest 
 version of them & I have an X-Fi Xtreme Music Sound Card & I couldnt put EAX on . As to the graphics 
 also that they are great , yet they bring nothing new , I thought that i will run it on medium 
 , yet i ran it on Ultra High , so nothing is new in the graphics other than the shader option in 
 the game . 
  
  My opinion is that if u can get the game , then get it , but dont think that u r obliged to get 
 it , borrow it from a freind 1st , u test it . This game is ambitious that seeks to have a Mature 
 Audiance , it is not over yet there will be expansions or sequals to it . 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Devvy01
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jul 29, 2006 10:15 am PT
Review:  The greatest thing about this game is spending a great deal of time looking around at the graphics. 
 So surreal is scary, lots of detail. The opening scene in the bar sets the standard for the little 
 things (like the TV) .
  Inside the ship is totally amazing, the creatures are well defined. The glaze from them as though 
 they're wet is a great effect. Unfortunately unless you screen capture the aliens you won't see 
 they're hiddeous faces.
  
  The sound is set to the game pace as its has cresendos when approaching areas where action is going 
 to start getting interesting.
  Lots of ambient music along the way whilst looking around.
  
  Game play is usual mouse looking/shooting, arrows move around/strafe etc. You'll use a couple 
 of other keys (lighter) but rarely.
  But this is where the game lets itself down, the main character spends most of his time worrying 
 about his girlfriend and it detracts from the game atmosphere and you sometimes think.. who cares 
 ... bring on the aliens... and this is where also the game need work.. You have 2 difficulties 
 when you start. Playing it on the harder one will yield more monsters but still not enough to warrant 
 running around such a vast gameplay area to only have 30 aliens crammed into one small hallway.. 
 
  
  Also one thing that seems TOTALLY pointless is that every time you die you goto a spirit area where 
 your suppose to shoot entities to give back your strength... Waste of time, and it also means you 
 have infinite lives and can play until the end and never need to save.
  
  Unfortunately more and more games are spending way too much time of graphics (although is the main 
 attraction) and not enough of the hardness of gameplay or even the length of a level. (Doom 3 is 
 good example, too much looking around, and not enough slaughter) .
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: yurik
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 29, 2006 9:45 am PT
Review:  Granted, its perhaps unfair to have such lofty expectations for a first-person shooter, perhaps 
 the most played-out and limited game genre out there. Still, it almost seems that unless an FPS 
 is truly inspired and original its not worth playing, as itll just end up feeling like the countless 
 Doom clones youve played before. That said, Prey does introduce more new concepts than any FPS 
 in years  behold its twists on such familiar elements as gravity and 3D space. Unfortunately, 
 these innovations are mired in a game that feels by-the-numbers, otherwise. 
  
  But lets start at the beginning. If youve played the free demo, which features about an hours 
 worth of single-player gameplay, you already know that Prey is played from a first-person perspective. 
 The player is Tommy, a rather foul-mouthed mechanic with a generally poor attitude to more or less 
 anything or anyone other than his girlfriend Jen. He has nothing but contempt for his Native American 
 heritage, and treats his grandfather Enisi dismissively, if not cruelly. Quickly, Jens bar, and 
 perhaps the entire reservation for all Tommy knows, is sucked in by a giant spherical alien ship/planet/thing. 
 Tommy escapes his restraints, Jen and Enisi do not, and its up to Tommy to save them, himself, 
 and maybe a great deal more. 
  
  While the game never leaves the 1st-person perspective, and the player has control of Tommys movements 
 ninety-nine percent of the time, Tommy does speak scripted lines without any player input, so his 
 personality is very well-defined (a nice change from the annoyingly mute Gordon Freeman and Doom 
 Marine Dude. Yes, I know, a main character that never speaks avoids forcing a personality onto 
 the player, but Id take the latter over a soulless flying camera any day.) . I didnt really like 
 Tommy as a character. He has something of a character arc, I suppose, but it is a very obvious 
 one that can be predicted a mile away. Hes also overly earnest and humorless. For that matter, 
 all of the games characters are walking clichs, Enisi and the aliens included. Preys two sci-fi/fantasy 
 elements  the alien incursion and the Native American spiritual stuff  are also done in a rather 
 rote fashion, as if the writer/s just didnt have strong feelings on either subject. That said, 
 Prey avoids sequelitis and does tell a complete story which is always nice. (Thats not to say 
 there wont be a sequel.) 
  
  GAMEPLAY
  
  The action in Prey is 75% shooting and 25% puzzles. The combat is closer to a game like Doom 3 
 than Halo. That is to say, Tommy can carry 9 weapons at a time, and the enemies he fights are pretty 
 stupid. Most weapons have alternate firing modes which are different enough from the corresponding 
 primary modes to basically turn each weapon into an entirely different one. The weapons look cool, 
 and gross, but theyre not as inventive as they look. For example, the rocket launcher may launch 
 some sort of a slimy living projectile, but its still really just a rocket launcher. The basic 
 assault rifles sniper scope is a living tentacle that latches onto Tommys eye, but its still 
 really just a sniper rifle for all intents and purposes. Oh, and the grenades are living green 
 spider thingies that crawl on the ground until one picks them up. There is no single game-changing 
 weapon like Half-Life 2s gravity gun, and most weapons entirely lack little quirks to differentiate 
 themselves from the norm. Probably the coolest weapon is the Leecher the ammo for which, unlike 
 for the other guns, isnt found lying around but is rather present in the form of wall dispensers 
 that can be leeched with the right mouse button. The real quirk is that there are four kinds 
 of ammo for the Leecher, turning the gun alternately into a machine gun, rail gun, freezer gun, 
 or, well, the Kill-Anything-Really-Fast Gun. Its not the most ingenious weapon ever, but it does 
 solve the design problem of how to provide ammo for boss battles: just stick some Leecher dispensers 
 onto the walls, and problem solved.
  
  Tommys enemies come in a few varieties. There are the Hunters, which are ostensibly intelligent 
 biped alien types. They dont actually take cover or show any kind of tactics, but it doesnt matter 
 since they can only take a shot or two from the weakest gun before keeling over. In addition to 
 the Hunters, the later game introduces a few of the freakier, more powerful aliens, some of whom 
 can fly. So can Tommy, though, with help of the Shuttle vehicle thats available at special terminals 
 throughout the game. Like the on-foot combat, the shuttle gameplay is fairly one-dimensional but 
 it does provide extra variety.
  
  Prey is at its coolest when it takes basic 3D game mechanics that we no longer even think about 
 and twists them. The engine supports gravity in arbitrary directions. The levels are full of special 
 surfaces that let Tommy walk on walls or ceilings, sometimes fighting enemies that are positioned 
 on surfaces at odd angles to his own. Some rooms are equipped with switches that can be shot to 
 completely switch the gravity direction in those locations. The alien sphere is a truly giant structure, 
 so there are even weirder gravitational phenomena within it, such as asteroids with their own spherical 
 gravitational fields. While Prey does more with gravity than any other game I can think of, the 
 sequel can probably do more to make it a part of the combat rather than mostly just a mind-bending 
 twist on environment exploration.
  
  Prey also has portals, which are glowing rings in space (or on the sides of certain crates, for 
 some reason) which are basically just glorified doors. Again, these can be rather mind-bending 
  for example, one can shoot into a portal and see the bullet come out sideways out of a totally 
 different part of the room  but, usually, the portal is not a particularly exciting way to teleport 
 Tommy from place to place. Its cool, but it doesnt change the gameplay too much compared to any 
 number of shooters. There is a 20-second-long sequence in a cramped corridor maze which offers 
 a glimpse of something cooler with its Spacial Anomaly, as the sign at the entrance helpfully 
 announces, but its a tease more than anything else.
  
  Finally, Prey gives us one more gameplay mechanic to spice up the FPS experience somewhat. Tommy 
 can spirit walk, wherein his spiritual body separates from his physical one (which can be seen 
 hanging helplessly in the air) . The spiritual body can pass through force fields, which the normal 
 body cannot, as well as press buttons and shoot the Spirit Bow. A typical puzzle will see Spirit 
 Tommy pass through a couple of force fields, then press a button that activates a remote elevator 
 that transports Real Tommy wherever. There are no difficult puzzles here, but the whole concept 
 is pretty cool.
  
  Overall, Prey is a fun game, but its rather average  which makes sense, since the average FPS 
 is rather fun. Its also really easy because  get this  Tommy has the ability to resurrect himself 
 in the event of death with no loss of progress whatever. The game is full of checkpoints and allows 
 to Quicksave, but I am not exaggerating when I say that I never had to reload throughout the game, 
 even though I died quite a few times. Some will say the game is too easy, and theyll probably 
 be right. Nevertheless, the gravitational/portal tricks, as well as the spirit puzzles, do make 
 Prey more exciting that the average first-person shooter. 7/10 
  
  GRAPHICS
  
  Running on id Softwares groundbreaking Doom 3 engine, Prey looks fantastic. Anything to do with 
 the environment looks stunning. For some reason, the engine is really great at making shiny, slimy 
 things look appropriately shiny and slimy, which is good for Prey, since it takes place almost 
 entirely inside the metallic alien fortress, which is overgrown with gross, slimy organic matter 
 and pretty, shiny monitors. The corridors of Prey are also full of cool-looking distorting surfaces 
 like force fields. All the explosions and projectiles look great, too. Speaking of corridors, Prey 
 unfortunately has far too many of them. On the other hand, when the level design allows for a wide-open 
 area, it tends to be a highly imaginative one, especially when the shuttle is involved. The same, 
 unfortunately, cant be said of the rest of the art design, which is basically that of a better-lit 
 Doom 3, but quite a bit more generic (lacking the stuff that filled out that games world, like 
 the left-behind voice diaries of various Mars base staff members) . Prey also fails to use Doom 
 3s dynamic shadow technology to the full extent; while D3 was needlessly dark all of the time, 
 it did show off its engine in all its cool lighting glory. Prey goes to the other extreme: everything 
 is super well-lit, so some of the engines strengths are left untapped. On the plus side, Prey 
 runs well on 2-year-old hardware, and our review computer, which is admittedly high-end, ran it 
 at the absolute highest settings, at 1600x1200, at a constant 60fps  a far cry from what, say, 
 Oblivion or Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter can do. The review PC used a 7900GTX card with 2GB 
 of RAM and an Athlon 64 3800+ AM2 processor.
  
  Unfortunately, Prey doesnt look great in every facet. A banal art design aside, all the human/demi-human 
 characters look really bad, at least compared to some of the games that have come out recently. 
 Skin doesnt look right, at all, and hair looks like stiff plastic. In general, all humans look 
 and move like dolls low-polygon dolls. Even some of the more grotesque character models, such 
 as the mutilated humans lack impact. If you think about it, the mutilated guys are quite sickening, 
 given that their eyes are replaced by metallic tentacles, and their guts are collected in sacks 
 hanging out of their stomachs. One would think itd be easy to make this look really disturbing, 
 but in Prey one has to look very closely to notice. 9/10
  
  SOUND
  
  The sound in Prey is utterly average in every way. Theres some symphonic music, which is pretty 
 good. Tommy talks quite a bit; his acting is reasonable given what the actor has to work with. 
 What he has to work with is okay as long as hes just profanely reacting to the horrible, bloody 
 things he sees  but its when hes in his reluctant hero mode that the script falls down and 
 dies a terrible death. Its like the writers decided to take the worst possible lines out of every 
 cheesy action B-movie ever made and stick them into this game. Notice Im not complaining about 
 the games premise; Half-Life shows its quite possible to write affecting dialogue in a game based 
 on the preposterously unrealistic premise of an alien invasion. I think Human Head simply had the 
 game developers writing the dialogue, and it shows.
  
  The rest of the sound work is not bad, but not good, either. Aliens speak English, which would 
 have been okay if they were as funny as the aliens in Halo; instead, they content themselves with 
 growling things and calling Tommy human as an insult. The Hunters are the only ones that speak, 
 which begs the question of what they are, exactly, and what that language is thats seen on the 
 monitors throughout the sphere. Not much of this is explained, so the aliens English speaking 
 appears fairly arbitrary, as does much of the games sci-fi background. 7/10
  
  MULTIPLAYER
  
  Prey has no cooperative multiplayer mode, but it does have deathmatch and team 
 deathmatch. As far as DM goes, Preys is as good as it can be, since it actually adds gravity and 
 portals to the now-stale formula. Unfortunately, DM is also only as good as its weapons, and Preys 
 feel fairly unsatisfying. If you think this multiplayer section of the review is short, that gives 
 you an idea of how important MultiPrey is to the overall Prey experience. In general, I dont 
 think deathmatch will contain much of this games appeal, but its good for a few more hours of 
 replay value. 7/10
  
  REPLAY VALUE
  
  I believe Prey holds the new record in gameplay length per dollar  a record in the wrong direction. 
 This is a $50 game that ends in less than 8 hours and gets repetitive far before then. There are 
 no reasons to replay the game, given its as-linear-as-humanly-possible nature and the fact that 
 simply beating the game on a tougher difficulty level just isnt very rewarding. As mentioned above, 
 multiplayer adds a bit of replay value, but not enough to really change the fact that this game 
 isnt worth its price. Even Tomb Raider: Legend, one of the shortest games in years, at least offered 
 some incentives with extra unlockable content and cost only $10 less. 6/10
  
  OVERALL
  
  Reading over the rest of the review, I fear it might come off as more negative than was my 
 intention. Prey is a good game, but I think it will underwhelm peoples expectations because those 
 expectations were astronomically high. Prey had promise, as evidenced by others and my own glowing 
 E3 impressions, but perhaps that promise was squandered in making the D3 engine and gravity/portal 
 technology work properly, to the point where imaginative level design and script writing were relative 
 afterthoughts, which is sort of the opposite of the ideal setup. Big FPS fans may want to give 
 it a shot for $50; the rest of us are probably better off waiting until its price drops at least 
 in half. 7.6/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: waterdragon86
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 29, 2006 8:03 am PT
Review:  The game is good but it can't be great , The storyline is is good and the game engine is flexible 
 and entertaining , the Graphics is great though it vary depends on your Video card power but an 
 Mid-Range VGA would deliver a good quality and a fair gaming experience 
  
  what the game really lacks and what makes it a huge let down for the PC games fans is that the 
 game doesn't bring anything new it would be best described as a cocktail it sum elemts from different 
 great PC games 
  
  you should buy this game if you want a FPS that make you spend some fun time 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChronosBolts257
Rating: 6.1
Date: Jul 29, 2006 2:09 am PT
Review:  Prey... Prey was, well, it wasnt Terrible! ;) People really shouldnt put to much time into a game 
 were spirit guided American Indian has to stop a crazed bloodthirsty alien empire. Yes I know "spirit 
 guided American Indian" sounds original and catchy, but Prey displays it in a flat, cheezy sort 
 of way. The Wise Grand Father, the death of your love. The organized plan to destroy an Alien, 
 planet conquering race. Overall Prey is reminicent of a Quake or Doom, but what sets it appart 
 is its fun gravity walls and spirit power multiplayer. So Multiplayer+ Overal Story, Weapon, Plot, 
 Alien Desire -. If You Loved Quake and Doom, Dont Buy this Game. You'd Be Expecting a "Space Marine" 
 but all you get is a bird named Talon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rapperforfree
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 27, 2006 11:15 pm PT
Review:  Prey is a first-person shooter video game developed by Human Head Studios and produced by 3D Realms, 
 using a modified version of the Doom 3 engine. Venom Games is responsible for the Xbox 360 port 
 of the game.
  
  A playable single and multiplayer demo of the game was released on June 22, 2006 for PC, and a 
 downloadable Xbox 360 demo was released on the Xbox Live Marketplace on June 30, 2006. The game 
 went gold on June 28, 2006, and was released in North America on July 11, 2006 and on July 14 in 
 Europe.
  
  In 1995, the first incarnation of the game was announced. Prey, to be developed in tandem with 
 Duke Nukem Forever, and released around the same time, was envisioned by 3D Realms as first of 
 a number of games to be running on unique, cutting edge game engine technology, to be developed 
 in house. In this sense the project played the same role as Unreal did for Epic Games, and it would 
 retain this role in the companys strategy throughout its development time in the 3D Realms 
 studios.
  
  However, Prey as a game was to go through many different forms during this first attempt. A rapid 
 succession of different designs developed by Tom Hall (previously of id software and later of Ion 
 Storm) , who was at that time fresh off the Rise of the Triad team at Apogee Software. After about 
 a years worth of work, however, Tom Hall abandoned the project and left the company to form 
 Ion Storm with ex-id compatriot John Romero. At this point 3D Realms brought on Paul Schuytema 
 to begin the next phase in the games development.
  
  The new team would go on to create the most coherent design the game ever had. The alien abduction 
 theme was retained, but now the game was to be set on a massive, living alien space ship inhabited 
 by a number of different alien races (three of them collectively known as the "Trocara" and a fourth 
 called the "Keepers") , and the player would take the role of a Native American hero, called Talon 
 Brave.
  
  The game, keeping with its goal of presenting impressive cutting edge technology, showed off for 
 the first time its portal technology, a feature that allowed rips in space to be created, moved 
 and reshaped in real time. This was to be a core feature of the gameplay, along with heavily destructible 
 environments. Demonstrations of these features drew widespread acclaim at the 1997 and 1998 E 
 exhibitions  the television program Infinite MHz was able to capture exclusive footage of 
 the games private behind-closed-doors demo at the games both E showings.
  
  The public perception was very positive, the game looked impressive, and 3D Realms name, 
 fresh from the success of Duke Nukem 3D was a mark of quality. Furthermore, German industrial band 
 KMFDM were supposed to create the game's soundtrack. 3D Realms posted on their website in 1997 
 that they received a sample of the soundtrack from KMFDM and highly praised the music, described 
 as ambient industrial. 3D Realms also released, via their website, two KMFDM songs 
 in MP3 format (that are not on the Prey soundtrack) , "Inane" and "Megalomaniac."
  
  However, despite the best of starts, Preys development was troubled. Seemingly insurmountable 
 technical problems ground development to a near-halt, and eventually, the game was put on indefinite 
 hold in 1999 (although never formally cancelled, contrary to popular opinion) . Later, on an internet 
 discussion board head engineer William Scarboro would comment that "In hindsight, portal tricks 
 such as these should be used as tricks, not as an engine paradigm."
  
  In 2001 3D Realms would regain the rights to Prey from Infogrames, and immediately begin development 
 on a new version of the title. This time, with the advantage of the necessary portal technology 
 already being a stable and functional component of all modern game engines, 3D Realms was able 
 to license the necessary technology instead of having to develop it. Specifically, the Doom 3 technology 
 from id was licensed, and the Rune developer Human Head Studios was commissioned to develop the 
 game using the previous designs as a base.
  
  Rumors of this new project leaked out to the public in 2002, through the website Evil Avatar, but 
 were at that time neither confirmed nor denied. It wasnt until 2005, when the cryptic clue 
 "Keep your eyes open for the unveiling of our next game very soon. ;) " appeared on the 3D Realms 
 website that the previous rumors were confirmed in any way. This was followed by a CNN article 
 by Chris Morris, claiming that Prey was not only in development, but that it would be shown at 
 E.
  
  Soon afterwards, the official Prey teaser site was launched, confirming the game's existence, and 
 hinting that more would be revealed in the June issue of PC Gamer, which indeed featured a seven 
 page article on Prey.
  
  On April 26, 2005 Prey was officially announced in a press release by 2K Games:
  
  "New York, 
 NY  April 26, 2005  2K Games, a publishing label of Take-Two Interactive Software, 
 Inc. (NASDAQ: TTWO) , and 3D Realms today announced Prey, a revolutionary first person shooter for 
 PC and a next-generation console system in development at Human Head Studios, under the direct 
 supervision of 3D Realms."
  
  The press release later went on to say that:
  
  "Prey will be exclusively showcased at this years E3 Expo by ATI in a movie theater-style 
 exhibition. For the world exclusive first details on the game, look for PC Gamers June issue 
 featuring Prey as its cover story, arriving on newsstands in early May. Prey is currently scheduled 
 for a 2006 release."
  
  On April 28, 2006, a July 10, 2006 release date was announced (although 3D Realms claims that is 
 not the formal release date since it did not come from them or Human Head) . On May 19, 2006, 3D 
 Realms announced that a demo of Prey would be released on June 22, 2006  the PC demo was 
 released on this date, but the Xbox 360 demo was delayed until June 30, 2006. On June 28, it was 
 announced that Prey had officially gone gold
  
  The story focuses on Tommy, a Cherokee garage mechanic and former U. S. Army soldier living on a 
 Native American reservation in Oklahoma. At the beginning of the game, Tommy is in a bar owned 
 by his girlfriend, Jenny. After an unfortunate bar fight, the bar is lifted up by a gravitational 
 force, as various items are sucked from their stationary positions into a green light above. Tommy, 
 Jen, and Tommy's grandfather Enisi are transported into shuttle craft to be transported back to 
 the massive alien starship called the Sphere. After docking, all three, along with countless other 
 captives, are dragged through the upper levels of the Sphere and Tommy is freed in an explosion 
 set off by a stranger who, despite being cybernetic like most of the Sphere's denizens, appears 
 to be working against it rather than for it.
  
  Tommy, who is armed only with a wrench he happened to be carrying when he was abducted, witnesses 
 Enisi's death in a brutal alien device, and, while trying to find Jen, he falls from a cliff and 
 has a near-death experience where he meets with his grandfather's spirit who bestows him with spiritual 
 powers. After returning to the world of the living, Tommy gains the power to perform astral projection, 
 using his spiritual body to pass through forcefields and reach places otherwise inaccessible to 
 his physical form. Despite being entrusted by his ancestor's spirits with the mission to protect 
 all of mankind from the sphere's invasion, Tommy can't stop worrying about Jen, and he only cares 
 about how to find and rescue her. As the game's tagline says, "Earth's savior doesn't want the 
 job."
  
  The Sphere is an organic, Texas-sized alien ship similar in shape to a Dyson sphere (though many 
 orders of magnitude smaller) . It has a small, concentrated sun at its core, which is used to support 
 itself and all life inside it. The origin of the Sphere is unclear, but its main goal is to maintain 
 itself. It travels the galaxy searching for various alien races to maintain it, like white blood 
 cells in a body. It also uses these races as food to provide much needed extra energy to sustain 
 the Sphere and its sun. The Sphere is fused with cybernetic enhancements, and has the power to 
 manipulate gravity inside of itself. Various walkways allow the occupants to walk on surfaces otherwise 
 designated as walls and ceilings. Switches that change the direction of gravity, effectively changing 
 the orientation of anyone in the area, are present in some locations, causing floors walls and 
 ceilings to change their roles depending on the switch used. The Sphere also has the ability to 
 produce portals to other sections at will. This implies that the Sphere is in a constant state 
 of flux, existing in multiple dimensions at once. These portals allow occupants to move much faster 
 around the Sphere and fulfill their duties more efficiently.
  
  The Sphere divides the multiple races into a few categories.
  
  Workers are employed as slaves 
 for all purposes to maintain the Sphere. They have the least freedom and are underlings to all 
 other categories. Workers are the least dangerous but are prone to attacking if confronted by a 
 hostile visitor. Most of the workers want to get off and destroy the Sphere, but have abandoned 
 these hopes long ago. Workers are also prone to experimentation by the scientists. Workers who 
 fail to comply with the guards are given as food to the Sphere.
  
  Scientists are intelligent races employed on the Sphere to research technologies that help extend 
 the reach, influence, power, and life of the Sphere. Scientists experiment on other races that 
 are deemed to have potential for experimentation. These experiments result in horrible mutated 
 creatures that are designed to help and succeed the guards. The Sphere's experiments are similar 
 to the Strogg of the Quake series, as they will sacrifice anything to ensure combat efficiency, 
 which results in cruel, twisted creatures that lurk in the corridors of the Sphere.
  
  The guards are strong and efficient races that enforce the Sphere's rules like a police force. 
 The guards are often stronger than the workers but less intelligent than scientists. The guards 
 will mercilessly kill anyone who resists the commands of the Sphere, including Tommy. The guards 
 are given more leeway than the workers as they are more important to the Sphere. The only real 
 motivation of the guard races is to keep a higher authority in the Sphere and keep themselves from 
 painfully dying in experimentation.
  
  Multiple species may be consumed as more energy for the Sphere. The only group of beings aboard 
 the Sphere who live relatively free are a small band of humans who call themselves the Hidden. 
 The members of the Hidden, individually known as "Hiders", are slightly enhanced with cybernetics, 
 but nowhere near the extent of the other beings on the Sphere, and have not lost their individuality. 
 Led by a seemingly young woman named Elhuit, the Hidden strive to ultimately destroy the Sphere, 
 though what they want most is to return to Earth, where they were taken from many years ago.
  
  The Sphere is controlled by a superior being called "The Mother". She makes her first appearance 
 in the game by communicating telepathically with Tommy. She is actually a human being who, like 
 Tommy, fought against the Sphere and then was allowed to survive to replace the original being 
 inside it. She, coupled with the Sphere, is omnipotent and immortal, and will live as long as she 
 wishes until she tires of life and chooses a replacement. As the game progresses she questions 
 Tommy about his resolve to persevere despite being alone against an entire alien civilization, 
 and says that she is always watching his progress, curious about how far he can go. At the end 
 of the game, having destroyed "The Mother", Tommy gets imprisoned within the same device Mother 
 was in. Before Tommy goes power mad, Enisi tells him he knows in his heart what he needs to do. 
 Tommy drives the Sphere straight into the sun, and ends up in the land of the ancients to see Enisi 
 and Jen once more. Knowing that when it is his time he will see them both again, Tommy goes back 
 to Earth.
  
  A question left unanswered in the game was "what happened to the simple citizens abducted by the 
 Sphere?". Perhaps they were rescued by Elhuit and her tribe, destroyed with the Sphere or by this 
 time they had already been transformed into workers, soldiers or used as "food". These questions 
 may be answered in a sequel/expansion pack, as suggested below.
  
  Six months later, Tommy finds himself in a rebuilt Roadhouse, apparently not yet open to the public. 
 The official story is that people, buildings and objects vanished because of an unknown, unexplained 
 natural phenomenon. No one on Earth knows that Tommy is a planetary savior. He turns around and 
 sees Elhuit, who he thought had died when the Mother located and attacked the Hidden's base of 
 operations, suddenly standing across the bar. She tells him that while people on Earth do not know 
 of the great deed he has done, that there are those "elsewhere", who have taken notice and want 
 to meet him. Elhuit opens up a portal, which looks different from the others in the game, and Tommy 
 walks through it
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: icStatic
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 27, 2006 5:48 pm PT
Review:  I have to say this is the best FPS I've played since Half Life 2. The FPS market has been stagnant 
 for a long time with graphical improvements such as those seen in Doom 3, but no new ideas, tactics 
 or even puzzles seen for years.
  
  Prey is extremely well made, it is well programmed and runs smoothly at max settings on my machine 
 where other games grind to a halt, yet somehow manages to looke even better. I noticed no bugs 
 or problems (despite the fact that I could not Alt+Tab out, which annoys me) .
  
  The game features many new exciting and challenging puzzles, implemented in a consistent way but 
 without making it tedious. The game is sufficiently long that you feel its long enough, but not 
 too long as to make it feel like it's going on forever. I particularly like the use of gravity 
 in the game; having the gravity change on you when you press a switch etc, or ability to walk up 
 walls on special walkways is quite disorientating at first, but makes the game more challenging 
 as your enemies could appear anywhere around you, even on the ceiling.
  
  There are also some nice twists to the story line which I didn't see coming and again strengthen 
 my point that this is not your average factory produced FPS. Although the game features a linear 
 story line, it doesn't quite feel so rigid as the likes of Doom 3 with its long narrow corridors. 
 The use of portals really seems to open the game up and make it seem more flexible than it really 
 is.
  
  The 'spirit' side to the game is a wonderful idea, and is implemented in such a way that it adds 
 a new dimension to the game. It also implements a nice touch in that the player cannot die in most 
 circumstances because you can resurrect yourself in the spirit world. This avoids the annoying 
 problem of Loading/Saving every 5 minutes like in most games. It is especially useful for people 
 like me who like to do a suicide runs in game and not care about death, so much for being stealthy! 
 Some people find this feature annoying, I don't. 
  
  The weapons in the game are well designed and balanced. I particularly like the rechargable energy 
 gun (with multiple energy types from pulse plasma, ice, electricity pulse [which plays like the 
 sniper rifle without the zoom for devastating ability] , electricity beam [which feels like the 
 lightning gun from quake] etc) . Being able to switch to your spirit self and shoot from there opens 
 up a whole new level of gameplay.
  
  Level design is excellent, so is the character design and choice of voices. I cannot fault the 
 game on its looks. Physics is acceptable, its no HL2, but again its better than Doom 3.
  
  The game is a little on the easy side in terms of shooting things etc, but this is made up for 
 by the stimulating challenges and solid story line. If you are a die hard FPS fan, this is probably 
 not the game for you, but if you are sick and tired of the same old 'shiny graphics, no gameplay' 
 stuff we've been excpected to buy into, this is well worth a look. If you are like me and just 
 get fed up of killing stuff (and dying on a regular basis) this is great fun. Incidentally, this 
 game doesn't suffer from the 'Horror story' syndrome Doom 3 suffers from either, don't let the 
 name fool you. This game doesn't have things jumping out beside you in badly lit rooms, there will 
 be no crapping your pants in this game - so if you are looking for something to keep you awake 
 at night, look elsewhere.
  
  I cannot find a single thing wrong with this game worth mentioning. If you are only going to play 
 one FPS this year, I reccommend this one.
  
  Oh, and a final note, make sure you watch the credits right to the end, theres a little bit of 
 story left at the end! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctor_kaz
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 27, 2006 11:42 am PT
Review:  Shooting aliens and saving the world is nothing new in video games, and thats basically what Prey 
 offers. However, the game has a handful of unique features that set it apart from the others. None 
 of them, by themselves, are unforgettable, but some interesting ideas, combined with the games 
 crazy level design, nice graphics, and good story (for an FPS, at least) easily make up for any 
 shortcomings that Prey has. 
  
  In case you havent heard, Prey uses the same engine that powered Doom 3 and Quake IV. If you didnt 
 know that though, you would be able to figure it out within twenty seconds of starting up the game. 
 Prey sports the exact same dark, cramped corridor look that prevailed in those games. This is both 
 good and bad. Doom 3 was a great-looking engine when it was released, and Quake IV improved on 
 it a bit, but the look is getting tiresome. The numerous crate and box-filled hallways in this 
 game are dull and look exactly like those in Doom 3. About 90% of the screen in the game is either 
 brown, grey, or black. However, Prey has some great lighting effects and some superb, highly-detailed 
 weapon models  arguably the best weapon models ever in a video game. Many of your weapons are 
 organic, and you can watch them twitch or slither in your hand. The acid gun is particularly impressive, 
 with the way that it slowly drips acidic goo. The characters and the monsters in the game also 
 look pretty good. 
  
  Prey also shares one other major gameplay flaw with Quake IV and Doom 3. The shooting action suffers 
 mightily from the lack of open spaces, slow walking speed, and abundance of surprise close encounters. 
 (To be fair though, Prey also does a much better job than Doom 3 and Quake IV of mixing up the 
 level design by occasionally providing some huge, open, cavernous spaces.) Dodging, strafing, and 
 using cover take a backseat to just selecting your most powerful weapons and blasting away as fast 
 as you can. Half of the enemies in the game fire explosive weapons that do large amounts of splash 
 damage. The game makes up for it though by being infinitely forgiving. In this game, you cannot 
 die. When you lose all of your health, you enter a brief Duck Hunt-like minigame in an alternate 
 world and then return to life. 
  
  I cant speak for anyone else, but I love how this feature is implemented in the game. Its a satisfying 
 substitute to the Quick Save key. Instead of quick saving your way through the game, you get 
 a legitimate alternative, which is to do penance with a shooting mini-game for 10 seconds when 
 you run out of health. Its a great idea for this game, because otherwise, some of the latter battles 
 would be frustrating without it. Some big battles, in particular, have you fighting hordes of enemies 
 in a small space with few health or ammo power-ups lying about.
  
  The weapons in the game look great, but functionally, they pretty ordinary. The only exception 
 is a cool Leech Gun, which charges up at stations throughout the game and changes based upon 
 what you charge it with. The strength of Prey is in its puzzle-heavy, crazy level design. The game 
 is a lot more linear than it looks, and the additions like portals and gravity changes can seem 
 superficial. Its true that portals are just fancy doors and that wall-walking doesnt offer much 
 extra freedom. However, these tools are put to great use, and what you end up with is a truly alien 
 world with a unique feel. You can enter a room, activate a portal, walk through it and end up on 
 the ceiling, walk all over the ceiling and the walls to another portal, and end up where you started 
 again. Its unpredictable and disorienting at times, but always in a good way. The game never gets 
 overly confusing, and the numerous puzzles are never too hard to figure out in more than a few 
 minutes. The game also adds spirit-walking, which is basically a mode that you enter into to 
 pass through force fields so that you can deactivate them by pushing a button. Its a simple mechanic 
 that doesnt sound like much, but is implemented surprisingly well. It also fits nicely into the 
 games story. 
  
  As I said before, this is not the first game to offer aliens as fodder. But no other game has ever 
 constructed such a bizarre and alien-feeling world. The sphere that you are trapped on is a truly 
 intimidating place that gives you the feeling that you are at the mercy of beings with superior 
 technology which is so evolved that you could not possibly hope to understand. If there is one 
 trait that separates this game from one like Quake IV, Unreal, or Half-Life 2, this is it. The 
 aliens themselves are pretty unremarkable and generic, but the atmosphere is brilliant. 
  
  As first-person shooters go, the campy story in Prey is surprisingly good. Its the story of Tommy, 
 an angry, whiny, foulmouthed, angsty self-loathing Cherokee who wants to leave his reservation 
 and who views tribal folklore as hokey BS. A few minutes into the game, he and his girlfriend get 
 kidnapped by aliens, and hes soon out to save her and the world. In the process, he discovers 
 who he is and learns to accept his heritage. The story excels because the romance between Jen and 
 Tommy is convincing, and because the story provides good drama without taking itself too seriously. 
 Tommys dialog is awfully corny at times. He frequently screams out taunts like F&@K YOU! or 
 Take that, you bastards! while mowing down waves of enemies. For some reason though, it makes 
 Tommy more likeable and charming, perhaps because his fear-stricken and hateful taunts are so fitting 
 for the setting and story. The are also a refreshing departure from the usual quiet protagonists 
 like The Master Chief and Gordon Freeman. 
  
  Audio-wise, Prey has a few bright spots. The voice acting is decent, and the game carries a Jeremy 
 Soule soundtrack. Its a pretty generic one though, and sometimes it feels out of place. The weapons 
 and aliens sound ordinary, but environmental sounds are great. 
  
  Prey has been roundly criticized for its short length, and I would have to agree. It took me about 
 10 hours, maybe less, to finish it, which isnt real good value for a full-priced game. The tight 
 linearity of the levels and heaviness of scripted events dont give you much reason to want to 
 play it again when youre done. Its a good thing that the game doesnt wear out its welcome, but 
 for a full-priced game, its lacking in lasting value.
  
  Despite being somewhat short and unremarkable in a few areas, Prey is a great game. It has more 
 than enough unique moments to separate it from the rest of the FPS pack. I you have been looking 
 for a good action game to help you get through the summer drought, or if youre just looking for 
 a unique twist on the first person shooter, then I recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: a_nacond_a
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jul 27, 2006 12:56 am PT
Review:  Pray is one of those games that you can come back from work and just go and relax behind your PC 
 while shooting a few ugly aliens. At first i was quite impressed by the graphics , but that these 
 days has become a standard for most games. The new wall walking and portal system was very nice 
 and i had a lot of fun while standing against the roof and shooting at enemy's that are the wrong 
 side up. The Story of the game was not more than i expected from a action first person , like quake4. 
 I will definitely recommend this game to all FPS fans , but there is many games out there that 
 is far better. over and out ;-) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gogoplexiorayo
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 26, 2006 5:06 am PT
Review:  Prey is about a guy named Tommy who is a Cherookee that lives in a reservation with his girlfriend 
 Jen and his grandfather Inisi. Tommy hates it at the reservation and he wants to see the world, 
 but Jen wants to stay at the reservation with the tribe. And a adventure thats just whats Tommys 
 gonna get, unfortunately not the adventure he wanted. because suddenly he gets sucked into space 
 by aliens with both his girlfriend and his grandfather.
  and in the end of the game you will save your girlfriend and save the world.
  
  what you will 
 first see about Tommy is that his not your standard first - person shooter guy. Tommy is a guy 
 with a lot of emotion, because for example if hes in a really creepy room he wont just stand there 
 and dont care he actually says something like "Now this is creeping me out" hes just not a lifeless 
 tough guy who doesnt care about anything and wants to kill and kill and kill. he does actually 
 have some life in him, but whats not so cool about Tommy that hes very stubborn, and that can get 
 really irritating sometimes. Whats also special in Prey is the death system. there is something 
 in Prey called the "Death walk" and that is when you die you are taken to a strange place where 
 there is a bunch of Blue and red flying things. and what you have to do is to shoot them. the blue 
 is for spirit which is a thing i will talk about later and the red are for health, and after ten 
 seconds or so your sucked back into the world. this is a pretty cool thing but it gets a little 
 bit boring after some time. it also makes the game to easy also.
  
  And now its the spirit. This is something you will get early in the game. what this does is that 
 there are some places where you cant come through. and in these places you have to use the spirit 
 walk. and what you must do when your in spirit mode is for example deactivate a console or turn 
 on gravity and much else. instead off making you stuck in a tough room. the game tries to make 
 you stuck by making you solve puzzles. this is a fresh new thing, but unfortunately they are way 
 to easy. there are only one puzzle in Prey that is tough, the rest is just way to easy. the intensity 
 of the fights in prey can be good and some of the enemies are really tough. the number of enemy 
 monsters in the game are also pretty good, so you wont be facing the same enemy over and over except 
 one, that is the Hunter, just like the imp in Doom. The AI in prey is pretty good. the hunters 
 have pretty good AI because they will throw grenades at you, and they will use there cover pretty 
 well, and if they are far away at you they will use there gun as a sniper. but one enemy that really 
 lacks AI is those baloon like things that flies in the Air they will just fly around like idiots 
 and its just to shoot them. 
  
  And then im gonna talk about one really big bug. The first Boss. what he does is that if you run 
 down to a hole he just starts shooting at nothing, this is one very big bug and its irritating, 
 so a patch is needed. But whats really a big plus to Prey is that its Yes SICKENING FUN. when you 
 play the game you will sit at the edge of your seat all the time. the story just drags you in and 
 it wont let you go to your finished. the level off fun is just top notch all the time. The fun 
 factor is what makes it so great. The multiplayer is also really fun. there is full level of intensity 
 all the time and it just rocks. Gravity in Prey is also pretty cool for a change. 
  
  The Graphics in Prey is top- notch as you will expect from a game that runs with the Doom 3 engine. 
 they didnt fully used the potensial of the engine but still it looks amazing. the characters have 
 very high detail and the enviroments looks just terrific. and all the enviroments looks a little 
 different from eachother. and in the "land of the ancients" the game looks flatout SICK. man i 
 and probably you have never seen anything like it. the view is just plain beatiful. The weapons 
 looks really cool. they all look very different from eachother. the enemies also looks pretty cool 
 and some of them looks very very brutal like they should! Short, the game looks terrific and hands 
 down almost the best ever. 
  
  The sound in Prey is unfortunately not so good. it was very sad to hear the aliens talk english 
 instead of some strange language. this makes the game sound a little less creepy than it should. 
 the weapons also sound very weak, it seems they have no power. and the rocket sounds utterly disgustingly 
 pathetic. but the enviroments haves life, you will hear breathing and you will hear many other 
 enviromental sounds, so the enviromental sounds is top- notch. the enemies also sounds good when 
 they die. so it sounds like they die. the characthers sounds good. Jen sounds very good and she 
 haves plenty of life. inisi seems a little emotionless at times but still pretty good. and Tommy 
 is played well by whoever the guy is. theres also some radio talks in the game and the radio guy 
 sounds good, sorry im from Norway i dont know who the guy is. LOL.
  
  The value in prey is the most lacking. there are 23 levels in prey and some of them are way to 
 short. prey will probably take you somewhere from 7 to 10 hours to complete. there is also very 
 little to be found in Multiplayer. there are only 8 maps. and some of them looks a little bit like 
 the same of eachother. but whats add to the value is that you will get a fun 7 to 10 hours of gameplay 
 from the single player, and 8 maps that you can play on so what you will get for 50 bucks is pretty 
 good. but it could be better if you would get a little bit more hours of Gameplay on the single 
 player, and some more maps then it could be better.
  
  So what you will get in Prey is a fun singleplayer with only a few bugs. the Storyline will drag 
 you in. the characthers have much life in them. dont be scared because its easy to get into. the 
 graphics are top notch. the enviroments are beatiful. sure the aliens sounds a bit stupid talking 
 English like me hehe. the lack of value is a thing here also beacause of the lack of game time. 
 and most importantly why you should play this game is the FUN. because Prey is fun. so what you 
 will get is a great first person shooter with some bugs and lack of value. should you buy it YES. 
 sure you are not getting that much but who cares. what im trying to say is Buy prey right now. 
 you will not regret it. the only one who will probably regret a little is the one who is looking 
 for a normal first person shooter. 
  
  But cya im gonna blast my friends up now with my rocket. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BuzzBoy
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 26, 2006 1:53 am PT
Review:  Prey is a game that many have been looking forward to since it was first revealed in the 90's. 
 It had amazing graphics and promised innovative game play to boot. Unfortunately, we'll never know 
 if it would have delivered. The original game was postponed, then cancelled while its developer 
 worked on Duke Nukem Forever. Resurrected by Human Head studios, the game wasn't just given a fresh 
 coat of paint, but built from the ground up. But in terms of game play, was it worth the wait? 
 My answer, a resounding yes. Many who have already reviewed the game say that it is too easy, and 
 that the gameplay, while interesting, never reaches its full potential. While these opinions all 
 have merit, i see it differently. Prey is a game that does what it is meant to do. Entertain. In 
 recent years, you will be hard pressed to find a game that is so pure to its formula. In Prey, 
 there is no complex puzzle system, no breathtaking battles between you and an unbeatable foe. You 
 simply shoot. The fact that there is an interesting storyline, excellent music, and great voice 
 acting is really just a plus. The death system in Prey is a new approach not seen in any other 
 shooter to date. And while many will say that it gives no penalty for death, its hard to make an 
 argument as to why that matters. You will never find yourself frustrated, or wading through save 
 games backtracking through levels because you forgot to save. Instead, you are returned right back 
 to the place where you died, no harm, no foul. The only real criticism to make is that the game 
 has little replay value, but when the first run through is so satisfying, this is permissible. 
 To sum it all up, Prey is a game, first and foremost, that never forgets why it exists. It is simply 
 entertaining, and thats why you should play it for yourself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: w0rmy
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 25, 2006 10:19 pm PT
Review:  I have a hard time understanding some of the lukewarm reviews that Prey has gotten here at GameSpot. 
 Admittedly the game play isn't for everyone but I thought it had an excellent mix of story, puzzles 
 and action.
  
  The game is maybe the easiest FPS I've played in a long time but that's partly because of the way 
 the game is set up. You never really die so to speak. When you run out of health, you're transported 
 to the "spirit world" where you earn the right to return to living by battling it out with some 
 flying baddies. Then you get dropped back into the game where you left off. It really keeps the 
 game moving and avoids boring repeats of the same level over and over the way you get in other 
 FPS games.
  
  The weapons are fun to use. Especially the leach gun. It has several modes of fire depending on 
 what you charge it with. Overall, there's not much new in weapons but they are effective and enjoyable 
 to use. What more can you ask for in a weapon?
  
  The story is really interesting. There's even a couple of twists in the story that caught me off 
 guard. I kind of saw the ending coming but it's well presented.
  
  Overall, Prey probably won't ever be considered a classic but it was certainly well worth the money 
 in my humble opinion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robwdevore
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 25, 2006 5:46 pm PT
Review:  After playing the demo of this game, I knew that I had to get it. I love sci-fi themed games of 
 just about any genre, especially fps's. So I guess my review is probably a little biased. However, 
 this game does a few things that are not at all conventional, such as the use of portals, which 
 automatically transport you to another location (plus, they're pretty cool looking.) As if this 
 weren't enough, there are also catwalks which allow you to defy gravity. For example, these gravity 
 walkways will go straight-up the sides of walls and even onto ceilings. Therefore, you might find 
 yourself on the ceiling, shooting at enemies that are on the floor. Believe me, this is very cool 
 to watch. And, if all that weren't enough, you play as Tommy, a Cherokee warrior who can manifest 
 himself in the spirit realm, which enables him to do things he can't do in his earthly form. This 
 is mostly used for puzzle solving, but you can also use a mystical bow to take out bad guys, which 
 is definitely fun to do. The Gamespot review of this game kinda blasts the game for not using some 
 of these new features more creatively, but I think that you have to give the game a lot of credit 
 for bringing some all new games features to a genre that hasn't really seen anything new incorporated 
 into gameplay for awhile now. It's nice to see a game come along that does something different, 
 and I wouldn't be surprised if more games start using some of the gameplay elements pioneered it 
 this title. All of the weapons are a very distinct alien look to them, which I persoanlly really 
 enjoyed. There are also a few very unique looking creatures, including some of the bosses. And, 
 speaking of the bosses, this games features real, hardcore, kick-your-ass bosses, not just pushover 
 bosses like in some other games. It should also be noted that this game uses a totally new death 
 system. Instead of dying, you're taken to a kind of Cherokee spirit realm, where you have to defeat 
 dark spirits in order to gain life and spirit power for your return to the real world. Depending 
 on your point of view, you'll either love this system, which basically turns death into a mini 
 game, or you'll hate it, thinking that it takes some of the challenge out of the game. I think 
 that it is very well done, and makes death kinda fun, instead of frustrating. Oh, yeah, almost 
 forgot, the game takes about 10 hours to beat, but then there's also mulitplayer, which I haven't 
 tried yet. Well, that's about it, I hope this review helps!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _sander
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jul 25, 2006 8:42 am PT
Review:  So Prey was one of those hyped up games again. The developers worked for a long time on that game 
 - have they succeed? That's yours to decide. In my opinion, Prey is a quite fun FPS with a few 
 uniqe puzzle and gameplay elements. I liked the portal system and the gravity puzzles in general, 
 at times, some of them were quite confusing - a nice little touch.
  The weapons in Prey are pretty neat. They have kind of an gross organic look on them and interesting 
 abilities. Vechicles in the game aren't really special at all. The flying spaceships are really 
 odd and give you a strange feel in terms of control. 
  The graphics are definetly beautiful and the game doesn't need a high-end PC to run smoothly. So 
 framerate is stable.
  
  Overall, Prey is fun but short and linear, besides that the story isn't very interesting. But it's 
 definetly one of the strangest games you've played for awhile. Don't buy it - rent it for a couple 
 of days and you have enough time to play it through. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: achilles01
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jul 26, 2006 1:55 pm PT
Review:  In Prey, you are Tommy, a Cherokee Indian who doesn't seem to be going anywhere in life. All Tommy 
 wants is to get off of the reserve and take his girlfriend, Jen, with him. But she and his grandfather 
 Enisi, dont want to leave and are stopping Tommy from achieving his goal. While at your girlfriends 
 bar, having an argument with your grandfather and Jen, the power goes out and a mysterious green 
 beam brings you up to an alien ship. A short cutscene shows you trapped in a cage in what appears 
 to be a biomechanical alien ship. You are heading somewhere with Enisi and Jen close behind when 
 a mysterious being sets you free from your cage. This is where you set out to save Jen and your 
 grandfather.
  
  Prey starts you off with a pipe wrench, but shortly after introduces you to some serious firepower. 
 After killing what look like a half mechanical, half flesh alien brute, you pick up one of their 
 weapons. It is a biomechanical rifle, with an alternate sniper fire. The weapon has little moving 
 tentacles on the side of it, and biomechanical weapons like this lead up to be one of Prey's coolest 
 features. Mostly all of the weapons in Prey are like this rifle, biomechanical in nature, but they 
 still play and feel like a regular first person shooter weapon would. No different than Doom 3 
 or Quake 4. But the weapons aren't the defining features of Prey, the Portals and use of gravity 
 are what most people think of when the name Prey pops up. Even before you get your first projectile 
 weapon, you are exposed to portals and gravity walls. The portals are cool along with the gravity 
 walls, but these features feel highly tacked on. You don't have a choice of which portal to go 
 through, or which gravity wall to walk on. There is only one way you can go, and this is what makes 
 Prey so linear. For a game that was supposed to expose you to "new ways of playing a first person 
 shooter", the game doesn't do a very good job of it. The portals feel just like doors, and the 
 gravity walls don't do anything more than change what side of the wall you are walking on. Nothing 
 more, nothing less. 
  
  Perhaps the most tacked on feature of all is spirit walking. You learn this from your grandfather 
 Enisi. I won't say how you learn it because that would spoil part of the story. Spirit walking 
 lets you break away from your body and roam around as a spirit armed with a bow and arrow. You 
 are not blocked by obstacles, such as force fields. This is the reason why spirit walking feels 
 so tacked on. This feature is only good for going through blocked force fields and unlocking it 
 from the other side for your human body to pass through. Other than doing small things like that, 
 spirit walking feels so unnecessary because it doesn't change the way you play the game. The only 
 advantage to spirit walking is when you die, you are just sent back to the spirit world to fight 
 off the dishonored dead spirits to become alive again. This consists of them flying in the air 
 and you shooting them with your bow. Pretty simple. After this, you are sent back to where you 
 last died. So there is no real penalty for dying. But this does make the game very easy, which 
 is sort of a downside. The whole game is just a linear experience through and through. So basically, 
 what does this shooter come down too? Well, it plays and feels exactly like Doom 3 and/or Quake 
 4, so I feel no need to talk about combat or anything else related.
  
  Prey uses an overhauled Doom 3 engine. The engine doesn't seem to be showing any signs of aging, 
 because the graphics look very pretty. Frame rate on the PC is pretty decent, but does drop a little 
 when you enter larger environments with more objects. The game has nice lighting and shadow effects 
 that really shine through when played on a good computer.
  I was running the game at 1024x768 on full settings, and the game looks impressive. If you have 
 a medium grade system like I do, the graphics will look very good, and you will definitely notice 
 a large improvement over the Xbox 360 version. So if you have a gaming computer along with an Xbox 
 360, this is definitely the version to buy.
  
  Prey plays like any other FPS. Features like portals or gravity walls don't do anything to change 
 or enrich the game play, along with spirit walking. The game doesn't do a good job of keeping you 
 hooked to the story, so you will lose interest after a few hours of game play. The most defining 
 feature of the game is its environments, which have a unique look to them along with the weapons. 
 The pretty graphics don't hurt either. So, when chopped down to the very basics, portals, gravity 
 walls, and spirit walking aside, Prey is just a solid FPS that will bring you a couple hours of 
 enjoyment. This game is definitely a rental, and I would not suggest buying it.
  
  Test System: AMD Athlon 64 3000, eVGA 6600GT, 1GB ram
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Whitsel
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 24, 2006 7:28 pm PT
Review:  Another list...
  
  Good:
  Some of the best voice acting since GRAW
  Very nice graphics
  Interesting & original gameplay
  The story might hit a racial bump but 
 is very good to me (1/4 Cherokee)
  
  Bad:
  Repetitive, repetitive, repetitive gameplay
  No where to go other than forward in this strickly CQB game
  One man saving the world with a 
 bow & a dead hawk..... Again?
  
  Will trully hit the spot for off & on sci-fi player fans but for moderate-serious gamers, this 
 game would be better to get in a bargin bin since you will play it and have to wait a bit to want 
 to do the thing again, unless you have your memory erased, lol. But if you want something new from 
 H1 or Doom, pick it up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mydasx
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 24, 2006 3:09 pm PT
Review:  If you are looking for something to keep you busy, for a while prey is an ok shooter. I like the 
 complete usage of the 3d space, but the game is "gimmicky" at best. Nothing new here really. Compared 
 to other shooters on the market right now, this game is shooting par. Prey is reminiscent of DOOM 
 III and QUAKE IV. I do like shooting from the walls, however, the sticky paths get old real quick. 
 The world is only interactive in a limited sence, you can open doors and push buttons, and shoot 
 these boxes that make the world move, but the rest of the world is pretty static. All in all not 
 too shabby, but i would wait for the price to fall. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dualkleric
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 24, 2006 11:55 am PT
Review:  Prey reminds one of Doom 3. The graphics engine is clearly the same. the style of gameplay is very 
 familiar. At first you would re-think investing time into this game, but as the game progress' 
 you feel like it was well worth it. The game plays a lot with gravity and portals. At first one 
 enjoys the different puzzles and eye-candy, however it soon becomes a chore. One starts spending 
 more time finding a way to get through one door than shooting up demons. Overall it's an enjoyable 
 ride, with certain new twists and weapons, through a very familiar universe.
  
  The game is worth playing but not buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sandlynx9
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jul 24, 2006 10:58 am PT
Review:  Prey was pretty hyped up by Gamespot with a ton of previews, the live video review, the demo, and 
 a ton of coverage basically. I obviously bought into all the hype and went out an reserved Prey. 
 Maybe it was all the hype, but my enjoyment with prey was slightly shortlived and a bit disappointing. 
 
  
  I tried to look past all that whilst reviewing the game though. Prey makes use of the ever-famed 
 Doom 3 engine and I think the engine serves its purposes well. The game has a very interesting 
 atmosphere. I love the organic look and feel of the entire ship. The graphics are very clean and 
 all very prettylike (which is a weird way to describe but ugly aliens but... who knows) . 
  
  I think that the sound of the game is pretty decent. With alot of FPS games the musical score 
 and other ambient sounds usually seem pretty forgettable to me. But overall I think the sound effects 
 were done well and add to the overall experience of the game rather than detract from it. 
  
  The gameplay ... well its a bit hard to say. To look at it objectively however, Prey is a fun 
 game. Running through portals and walking on walls, the death mini game... it was all very unique. 
 In a time for gaming where alot of FPSs seem really similar you can tell Prey was trying really 
 hard to be different. Well, I think these features do set Prey apart from other games of the same 
 type. However, it felt like the gameplay was rather repetitive, and I thought the story was rather 
 junky. Just the same rehashed stuff, and I thought the Native American aspect was a very superficial 
 portion of the story. It simply allowed all the spirit walking and such. The end of the game left 
 me particularly unsatisfied... 
  
  However. I was said "You can't expect every game to be the best game you've ever played." Simply 
 put, Prey is a fun game to play through and hopefully the unique mechanics of the game will inspire 
 other game developers. But don't expect too much, or else you'll be let down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CaineFH
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 24, 2006 3:43 am PT
Review:  The game is way to predictable, sure they made it so you can walk on the ceiling, but they might 
 as well give you a jet pack, that would have been more fun. The weapons suck. You dont really feel, 
 here I come, watch out I've got my shotgun loaded. The first weapon is kinda like a nailgun, the 
 second is like a deo, with a lighter infront of it, and I never got any further, cuz I dozed of.
 
  It just gets boring very fast.
  Sleep tight. zzzz ZZZZ zzzzz ZZZZ
  
  Dont buy it. Its not worth your time, unliess you liked doom 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tusa04
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 24, 2006 2:49 am PT
Review:  As far as opening sequences go, Prey pretty much nails it. If you haven't already played the demo 
 and don't know what happens, I won't spoil it, but the gist is that Tommy (a Cherokee man) , his 
 girlfriend Jen, and his grandfather, are taken to an alien colony. In typical sci-fi story fashion, 
 these aliens harvest humans for food, so when grandfather bites the dust (not as big a spoiler 
 as you might think) and you're separated from Jen, you're in somewhat of hurry to rescue her before 
 the inevitable pulverising.
  
  Advertisement
  What plays out would be a pretty simple 'good guy versus aliens' FPS, but things are shaken up 
 by the 'clever' use of gravity, portals, and the ability to 'Spirit Walk'. For some reason that's 
 completely unknown, these aliens live in a place where gravity can be manipulated at will. Walkways 
 that let you scale walls, and gravity switches that simply change the direction of gravity's pull 
 are featured throughout the adventure. It's certainly a neat gimmick, and throws up some insane 
 level designs and a few tricky puzzles, but it doesn't make for the gaming nirvana that we'd been 
 led to believe.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kainenable
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 23, 2006 8:07 pm PT
Review:  There are a few things which make prey stand apart and the one I liked the most was the fact that 
 it didnt make you backtrack. It also engaged your mind just a little bit. Where the game could 
 have gotten by being a straight run and gun shooter (which it mostly is) it also requires you to 
 sit back and try and figure out some rather simple yet fun puzzels.
  
  There are 2 great additions to this game which are portals and the inability to die. These vary 
 the game quite a bit and totally remove any backtracking. It is great. A little confusing at times 
 but you get used to it. The inability to die is taken care of by an interesting little sequence 
 where you enter the spirt world and attack some wrathes. Very little effort, consequently it makes 
 the game alot less of a headache to play. So instead of saving every 5 seconds you just continue 
 your progress. I think this is a posative.
  
  Another thing you will recognize about this game is the polish and overall quality of every aspect. 
 The music is great, the graphics are good although can get a little redundent at times. The inteface 
 is just wonderfull. For example when you qucksave and reload it does not require you to load the 
 whole level from scrath. Another thing it does is at the main menu it allows you to resume the 
 game which is a nice little feature and saves you having to hunt around in your savegame folder. 
 Small touches like this really shine through and make playing the game a pleasure.
  
  There are a couple criticisims about this game such as a little bit of redundency when it comes 
 to the levels and fighting the bosses. These are quite minor though when you compare it to the 
 overall expereince.
  
  There is one thing I have to say though, i played this on a relativly high end PC with a good video 
 card X800 XL. I am assuming it is not quite as fun with lower specs and the 360 version would be 
 better. Although if you have a powerfull enough system i would say the PC version is for you. Who 
 wants to play a FPS sans mouse and keyboard? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tdouglass
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 23, 2006 7:46 pm PT
Review:  Prey is a good game. The weapons are funny, the explosions, well, explosive. And who doesn't love 
 to run up walls and across roofs while blowing the crap out of some creepy looking aliens?
  
  That being said, Prey falls short in terms of value. The story is very short, sure there are 
 22 levels, but they're all very short and more or less the same. The weapons are just modifications 
 of common weapons, but the changes are nice. They took a shotgun and gave it acid instead of shells, 
 so I have to give them credit for that.
  
  The storyline is a different story (I had to, really, they made me) . Playing as a sarcastic cherokee 
 indian who doesn't care if the world gets eaten grew on me, and Tommy has fun reactions to the 
 environment and the weapons. Well, he swears at them well anyhow.
  
  Therein lies one of my biggest problems with the game: there is gratuitous language. Now, in intense 
 situations where your life is on the line, you can expect to be a little profane, but the game 
 is too easy to actually feel threatened, so it seems like Tommy just curses at everything, which 
 gets old fast. 
  
  All in all, I don't regret paying the full $60 for this game, and the physics are a lot of fun 
 to toy around with, but I doubt I'll spend any time online with it, and probably won't come back 
 to play it again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VolcanoMan001
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 23, 2006 6:20 pm PT
Review:  I concentrate this review on only countering one of the primary negative points in the official 
 Gamespot review to show that you must take it with a serving of salt when making a decision:
  
  In the official Gamspot review he states that "... aliens speak english and sound dumb doing 
 so." 
  
  Well, if the reviewer would have actually payed attention to the game instead of just plain zipping 
 through a game on his "I have to review this" list, then he would have noticed that AFTER the protagonist 
 gains his spirit powers he can both read alien writing and understand what they are saying. Furthermore, 
 if the reviewer would have been paying attention, before you gain the spirit powers you cannot 
 understand what the aliens are saying. 
  
  I only mention this because this is not the first time that I have seen a Gamespot review either 
 totally miss the point in a game or, quite frankly, show some bias towards a game, one way or the 
 other. So, something that seems so menial or nit picky of a remark is actually quite important 
 when taken as a whole. What I mean is, given the reviewers inattentativeness to the story line 
 in PREY, he therefore applies some of this misunderstanding to what he thinks is "dumb" in regards 
 to the plot or gameplay. Therefore, he lowers his review accordingly. So, a misunderstanding like 
 this can indeed cause an official review the difference from being "good" or "great" since he mentions 
 this point as one of his primary negative remarks about the game.
  
  That said, PREY is an outstanding game full of innovative concepts and an great story. This is 
 definately a must rent game at the very least but it would also make a great buy as well.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ishtari23
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jul 23, 2006 11:40 am PT
Review:  Tried the demo before I purchased and was really impressed. The revamped Doom 3 engine makes the 
 game look great. The portals in the game are used to great effect. But the thing that got me was 
 the way the game played with gravity, hanging upside down in the ceiling, shooting at enemies running 
 on the walls was awesome. So I thought this was a surefire hit.
  
  After playing awhile though it became more bland. The weapons wasn't that fun to use, and the games 
 "death walk" will let you continue the game right on the spot you died. Thus making the game too 
 easy.
  
  The multi player continues the same no-frills game play as in Doom 3. Sometimes fun in small doses, 
 but nothing to really make you want to come back for more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DavidCK
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 23, 2006 9:22 am PT
Review:  I'll try to explain some of the few aspects I think people missed of why Prey is truly an underappreciated 
 game. It is rather structured randomly so bear with me...
  
  Production:
  I, like many others, do not understand why this game is so underappreciated. I'm a designer, programmer 
 and did quite a few multimedia work. What I can say is that this game screams production value. 
 There are tons of "money shots" where tons of man-hours are spent just for a particular scene, 
 I think those are worth the price of admission. In almost all aspects of the game, there seems 
 to be details everywhere! Details that are so well crafted to the context of the game's environment. 
 The sound is rich, the design is top notch and music that combines a scene gracefully. All that 
 combined together in a seamless fashion that make sense. Prey truly immerses a player with it's 
 atmosphere, since when was the last time a game has such a well defined and researched theme?
 
  
  Gameplay:
  Some people believe that the portal and gravity system is all hype and that it does not provide 
 any real evolution of gameplay in the FPS genre. I enjoyed Prey's gameplay and it never made me 
 feel like I'm blasting armies of clones in endless corridors like in many other FPS. The fact enemies 
 can appear in multiple surface gives a whole new definition in FPS gameplay. I always wonder when 
 I can shoot enemies from all sides of the screen rather than just an X-AXIS gameplay...
  
  I believe that if the developers omitted the "death-walk" sequence and use the traditional "gameover" 
 system, less people would complain about how easy the game is. For me, the game is not very easy 
 but that system empowers me way too much that sometimes I don't care about Tommy dying or not to 
 save myself some ammo instead of mindless shootings as a last resort save-your-own-ass solution.
 
  
  Polish:
  It feels like they tested the game thoroughly and fixed tons of bugs before it shipped. Games that 
 introduce new gameplay elements, like the gravity shifts, usually are far from perfect coding wise... 
 I enjoyed the smoothness and the console-game like rigidness that Prey is. No patch is yet required 
 for PC users like me. Even in multiplayer, I feel a polish-ness that not much other multiplayer 
 games offered. I'm certain that the developers optimized the network source of the Doom 3 engine. 
 The most surprisingly of all is that I can run Prey better than Doom 3 in my almost obsolete Athlon 
 XP 2600 and ATI 9800. It was very playable on medium settings with screen resolution of 1280 x 
 1024.
  
  Unique:
  At first, I was a little turned off by the "over-powered" sound and the "under-powered" performance 
 of the rifle. But I learned to live with it especially as my arsenal grew. I like the design of 
 the alien weapons albeit the familiarity of them all. Prey has one of the most well crafted alien 
 guns I've seen in a game. My favorite is the secondary firing mode of the rocket launcher, extremely 
 well executed. Another favorite is the "plasma" beam of the Leeching Gun, it feels just right "power 
 vs sound vs reaction of the player backing up".
  
  Also, the enemies are very imaginative also. The design is nice but I enjoyed the unique abilities 
 of each enemy even more. I think my favorites are the "harvester", "keeper" and SPOILERRRRR "jen-modified". 
 The harvester going in those organic teleporters are awesome. I disliked the design of two-legged 
 hounds as it feels too generic for the standard set for all other high quality aliens. However, 
 the glow in their eyes impressed me, finally a game that uses lighting right in the FINEST details.
 
  
  Level Design:
  Too linear you say? I don't recount where was the last time I played a FPS that is non-linear. 
 The only non-linear games are those that simulate a world, like a flight-sim or city-sim or GTA 
 (not by its linear mission, by its world) . Yes, I do understand that the introduction of portals 
 might lead some to believe a more dynamic flow of the player's progression. However, this is not 
 the intention of the developers, they want to give players an extremely satisfying cinematic experience. 
 With a non-linear gameplay, you might encounter random things that would destroy the intention 
 and there is no true feeling of building up tension through progression (especially in the last 
 portion of the game) . However, I do think that if they have included a "portal" weapon of some 
 sort that these complaints wouldn't be filed as much...
  
  Conclusion:
  For me, this has been the best FPS since HL2. And in some respects, I enjoyed Prey more than even 
 HL2, especially the whole last few hours of the story.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tomdelonge0686
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 23, 2006 5:24 am PT
Review:  jesus this is getting annoying so many ppl bash doom 3, one of the best games ever made. And i know 
 y, and i know y [ [l hate counter strike source. At the time nobody could afford these games as u 
 needed a powerful pc. Ppl always say how doom flash light was gay. Ok look lets see u sit there and 
 make maps and engines and models for 4 straight years on 1 project. Whne i make maps for hl2 and 
 css and dod s they take a while just for 1 map. I guess theyre ppl u cant ever make happy in this 
 world they always have somethi ng to bit ch about always. U ppl probably would bit ch that ur ice 
 cream was cold. I personally thought doom 3 was the best fps single player not mutli but single 
 ever in my lifetime besides the old ones. Its so weird how ppl go out of their way to bring down 
 another game while theyre being asked about this game prey. Yes prey was good, talk about prey stop 
 comparing. Cuz everyone i talked to about doom 3 say the same words god it was scary! yeah when 
 i first played it, it was amazingly creepie where a game had them jump out at u. Kinda like a resident 
 evil game but resident evil took its time and creepie music and u were just waiting for him to 
 jump through a window. Yea in this review im gonna defend doom 3 for its pride as a masterpiece. If 
 any of u never played its for sale for 20 bucks. Its worth every penny. Now if ur a pu ssy dont act 
 tuff and say the gameplay is bad cuz its not. Atleast when i shoot a barrel it doesnt push u or 
 slide u back like hl2. Atleast the game doesnt have load points where u feel in the game to stop 
 u. Atleast id soft cares for the costumers instead of valve buying all the mods and making the games 
 beautiful but for poor ppl. cuz of the load points, thats was a heartbreaker. Now out of all 3 games 
 halo2, doom3, and hl2. Doom3 wins and so did half life 2, thats the great part bout it. one is a horror 
 scifi and the other is just a sci fi on earth. And prey is just plain awesome with the portals and 
 all, i thought it threw a nice weird punch in the gaming world. U felt like playing duke nukem again 
 witht eh guy cussing every 3 mins and blowing aliens to hell. get the game dont let nerds turn u 
 off of it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coolman_2006
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 23, 2006 3:20 am PT
Review:  At last they have put the Doom 3 Engine to something good (not saying that doom 3 was bad) . 
  
  Killing enemies couldn't be more fun with the alien type weapons. The gameplay is bery good 
 (I haven't seen any glitches / graphical errors) and the graphics are outstanding, with the guns 
 and the enemies and the main characters. The wallwalk feature is one of the best features in the 
 game and also, when you change into a ghost which may let you walk through forcefields and find 
 hidden paths. The enemy AI isn't that good (F. E. A. R has the best enemy A. I) because they don't 
 hide behind objects and they can't hear you so you could walk up behind them and you could kill 
 them, but if you walk into them they will turn around and shoot you.
  
  The feature I don't like about the game is that "YOU CANNOT DIE" which means you can never lose 
 the game. There also are alot of little passages which are hard to find but eventually you will 
 find.
  
  Overall this could be one of the best FPS of all time but a few little problems stop it from being 
 that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phobos0411
Rating: 5.4
Date: Jul 22, 2006 12:05 pm PT
Review:  Prey. Well I must say I had high expectations for this game, but then I have high expectations 
 for lots of games. I was hoping Prey would be a little different than your average first person 
 shooter and in some ways Prey did its job in that respect. However, I can see that even though 
 Prey had brilliant potential, it just failed to be the different meal I was hoping to have.
  
  I've been playing first person shooters since Doom and naturally play FPS' quite a lot of the 
 time. The amount of them which I've torn my teeth into means that it really takes some new and 
 innovative features to spark my interest and make it a fun game to play. Well I can tell you that 
 Prey was no Unreal and no Deus Ex either, in fact it looked just like Quake 4 and Doom 3 did and 
 also failed to play rather differently.
  
  First of all let me tell you that the AI was incredibley dissapointing. it was no different to 
 Quake 4 or Doom 3. The enemies don't dodge your shots, they stand in clear view and rarely take 
 cover and they don't work as a team. With all the work going into nice detail in the graphics department, 
 Prey looks like another game with a neglected AI and it really isn't challenging at all.
  
  The storyline was the main reason I wanted to get the game and I was completely intruiged when 
 I started reading about 'alien abductions' and I can tell you that the storyline in the game was 
 actually quite good and lived up to expectations. The combination of the great voice acting and 
 good characters made me feel very immersed and actually feeling very upset when one of the lead 
 characters dies at the start.
  
  The sound was very good and it's one thing which in most games I can't really fault except of course 
 for Doom 3's nerf gun pistol lol. Sound in my opinion is more important than graphics when designing 
 a game and you can see this in games like Doom. I mean come on, what would Doom be without it's 
 monster sounds and theme tunes. Sure they're not so great anymore but back in the day they were 
 the bees-knees and made the game truely splendid.
  
  i needen't go into detail about the graphics because just by looking at the screenshots you can 
 tell that the game has good graphics. Yet having played Doom 3 and Quake 4 I am getting tired of 
 the Doom 3 engine and it definately dosen't have the same buzz it had back in 2003, I think its 
 time to move on to a new engine now, even valve's source engine beats Doom 3 engine what with its 
 HDR technology and basically better graphics over all.
  
  The gameplay of course was the biggest let-down when it comes to Prey, I was expecting a much better 
 experience in this respect but you just can't add wall walking and spirit walk and think that its 
 going to be completely different to last FPS you played, Prey just wasn't anything new and exciting 
 and failed to impress me at all. The puzzles were really very simple and incredibley boring to 
 say the least too.
  
  The choice of weapons was interesting and I can't actually fault any of them to be honest. It wasn't 
 as cool as the BFG 9000 but the weapons were still quite fun to use and I especially liked the 
 way they seemed alive and organic.
  
  Overall I believe that Prey is nothing new in the FPS genre and you're far better off going with 
 a game like CSS or HL2 if you haven't got that allready and I think that Doom 3 was far better 
 than Prey. Not to mention I completed Prey in one day. The variety of enemies was also bad and 
 Prey was definately not worth the 24.99.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dharam83
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 22, 2006 8:37 am PT
Review:  I was a bit cautious that a game made by 3DR couldn't be anything more than killing entities out 
 of this world with all the gut wrenching arms you can think of. However, this time they have put 
 there creative skills to the test and come up with an impressive and highly immersive FPS. With 
 an intuitive blend of spiritual magical and reality not to mention the fear factor where they have 
 used little girls that act as specters, which was very similar to F. E. A. R although not in the same 
 way. They didn't leave out the "gut wrenching" part out either there are scenes where humans are 
 getting their guts sucked out leaving only their empty skin. 
  
  The most unique concept of Prey is when the gamer moves from point A to point B through portals 
 that warp you to different locations instantly, sometimes through boxes or energy gates that pop 
 out of no where landing you to new locations, the ceiling or even the walls. Also, by not giving 
 too much away the character you play is a Cherokee Native American who is disillusioned by his 
 culture and wants nothing to do with his people. He learns the error of his ways by the help of 
 his grandfather and teaches him to use his spirit to aid him to surpass difficult areas. 
  
  Don't hold your breath though, because the game-play isnt much of a reward for anyone interested 
 in a deep plot but its serviceable. The gameplay leaves you to figure out how to progress further, 
 so you got to use your brains to solve the problem. Although to be honest it wasn't that hard to 
 figure out. 
  
  The game is new with fresh ideas that keep the average gamer wanting for more but the game fails 
 to deliver. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ruanventer
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 22, 2006 7:02 am PT
Review:  This game is Hectic... Doom 3 but better. Although it looks alot like Doom and also has the same 
 type environments, the Portal and gravity challenges makes it worth a play. You might find yourself 
 shooting at enemies walking on the ceiling.... or wait are you walking on the ceiling.
  
  The Graphics is awesome and dont require the best GFX money can buy, it appears they made some 
 improvements to this aspect since Doom came out.
  The creator of Guildwars music tracks also handles the sounds in this game it to my opinion is 
 WELL done. Using X-FI it emerges you in the game with great surround sound effects.
  
  One draw back is that it is a little easy, you cant die. You get transported to a dead realm where 
 you can shoot flying sprits to regain life. Then boom, your alive again where you died.
  
  Although this game is a bit more expensive than other games it is worth while going out and getting! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gwarpup
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jul 21, 2006 9:42 pm PT
Review:  Everyone is trying to label this game as just a GIMMICK. They completely ignore the fact that its 
 a totally immersive ALIEN Experience that is totally not like anything else out there. Sure its 
 too easy, and the Instant Ressurection exactly where you die takes away any sense of accomplishment. 
 It has its bad points. But the visual and immersive experience of truly feeling like your in a 
 totally ALIEN ship that is Alive is really worth the whole trip. And I say trip in the most drug 
 induced sense of the word. If you like to trip, I especially recommend you trip on this! It will 
 make your brain bleed. The puzzles are truly outstanding too, Ive never played an FPS with Myst-Like 
 puzzles before that are so unique. I'd wish the whole game would have been more of a puzzle game 
 to make it stand out even more from the masses, the greatest thing this game shows is how there 
 is so much much more in the ways of wild imaginations at work in the gaming world today and so 
 much that can still be done using these excellent examples. The mind Boggles. Its really inspirational 
 to see imaginations be put to such use as to put exscrutiating detail and mind warps into a games 
 like PREY. You might prefer to rent it, or buy it for less. Its not that its short, its really 
 pretty much the same size as other FPS's, but because you respawn anywhere you die in just about 
 5 seconds, it means that you just fight on and on til you finish without ever having to redo anything. 
 Thats really lame I thought, and the AI is totally brainless, and them shouting your going to die 
 all the time becomes kinda a joke when you know that your going to respawn in the same spot again 
 and again, your totally invicible. Even the enemies stay hurt, so you could die again and again 
 and each time you come back they will be more hurt til finally you kill them all. WAY TO EASY!!! 
 but god the layouts of this ship defy words. Its so ALIVE and BAZAAR, you can't help but admire 
 the design team. Like the first time playing ALICE. I can't wait to see what Valve do with their 
 PORTAL Idea! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Karjah
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jul 21, 2006 8:06 pm PT
Review:  Make no mistake Prey is a solid idea. Portals, Wall walking, and spirit walking are all good ideas. 
 
  
  It's a good engine; prey looks great on the doom 3 engine and runs flawlessly on the pc. I'll admit 
 I have not touched the xbox 360 version so this review focuses on the pc version of this title. 
 
  
  First off let's make no mistakes Prey starts off on all the right notes as anyone who has played 
 the demo will tell you. The story is introduced well and you will be on the alien spaceship before 
 you know what hit you. However the bad note of this is that they sacrifice a lot of the character 
 development (in fact you could say all of it) to pull the player into the shooting so fast. 
  
  Before long as well the player gains the ability to spirit walk where you can travel outside 
 of your body. This effect is used often and unfortunately more often then not it's only to get 
 past a forcefield to press a button. Needless to say this leave the idea feeling half done and 
 not as special as it was intended to be. there are a few places where you have to move onto a platform 
 and then hit a button but these cases are rare and far in-between bouts of the simple turn off 
 the forcefield. 
  
  Also of note in the spirit walking is a disappointing aspect of never being able to die. Basically 
 whenever you die by gunfire or a fall or whatever the case may be you are transported to a tiny 
 rocky island where you shoot flying blue and red monsters for health with a bow and arrow. The 
 idea being that you need to shoot enough red monsters to gain hp and blue monsters to gain spirit 
 energy which lets you shoot your spirit bow when your in the real world. Even if you shoot no monsters 
 at all you still come back with half health meaning that it's impossible to die in prey. This ultimately 
 means that there is no real threat to any of the aliens or any satisfaction to killing an enemy. 
 
  
  The next idea of note in this game is of course the ability to alter gravity by shooting certain 
 switches and walking on designated wall paths. This is in all honesty probably the games best idea 
 and adds an element of disorientation to combat. Sadly though the AI seems lackluster in taking 
 advantage of that and tends to only stay in one spot and blindly shoot at you. Again the idea is 
 good but the overall ability to which it's used seems sub par and off base leaving you wanting 
 more but feeling disappointed and quickly tiresome of another half baked gravity puzzle.
  
  The games portals have their moments however and in the first two hours of the game this truly 
 shines as enemies use the portals often as traps in the direction of the game to put you in some 
 nice moments. However the games seems to quickly drop the use of portals as anything more of putting 
 an enemy directly in front of you and as doorways to ammunition rooms. there was a lot of potential 
 here but the lack of enemy AI to use the portals to their advantage and the lack of later on using 
 the portals as anything but a simple cool looking doorway shine through as disappointing.
  
  The guns in this game do come off as organic and have a nice look to them
  but there really 
 isn't anything special here in terms of actual performance. The shotgun now shoots acid and mini-guns 
 and rocket launchers organic or not are nothing new either. 
  
  Sound wise and voice acting in this game sad to say are probably the worst i've seen in a first 
 person shooter in a long time. the aliens don't really sound like they are the oppressors and evil 
 beings they are supposed to be and the characters sound out of place and almost totally robotic 
 at times. 
  
  Graphics however on this title are top notch. Everything looks like it should and lights well. 
 There are some very nice looking moments and enemies. The portals themselves look good as do the 
 explosions and animations. Everything runs smooth on a medium or better quality pc and can quickly 
 be considered this games strong point. 
  
  Ultimately Prey is a nice looking be it short game with a lot of good ideas packed in. Unfortunately 
 none of those ideas are used well and in some cases interfere with what could have been an excellent 
 experience.
  
  Prey is likely to be remembered more for it's ideas then as a game. For 50 dollars at this time 
 you definitely are not getting enough good gaming for your dollar.
  
  That said I would feel bad telling you to stay away without recommending something to go check 
 out. If your looking for a good shooter at this time I can definitely recommend checking out the 
 upcoming Team fortress 2 and Portal that will ship with Half-Life 2: episode 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: noda_90
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 21, 2006 12:43 pm PT
Review:  prey is one of the best FPS games i've ever played and i dunno why the hell did gamespot give it 
 a 7.5 as it deserves much more score than that
  
  Gameplay: enjoyable gameplay that makes me never want to close that game but i do,,, aslo there 
 is alittle thrills out there but i expected more and more thrills maybe like F. E. A. R. but i consider 
 prey as a not creepy game.
  So for the weak-heart guyz,, yes u can play it and it won't scare u.
  
  Graphics: this is what 
 the all game about,,, as i consider prey graphics one of the best graphics i've ever seen in a game (actually 
 i think it comes right after oblivion's graphics) but the difference is the whatever video card 
 u have u won't run oblivion like u want but with my radeon 9250 (which pretty sucks and i will change 
 it really soon) i run prey with the highest textures and graphics and no problems at all
  
  Sound: great sound at seperate times of the game but the main game sound is alittle weak and doesn't 
 affect my feelings like the way oblivion did
  but in some parts of the game there is a great music
  
  Value: this the worst thing in prey, it 
 comes with a weak value and offers no more than 6 or 7 hours of gameplay so u can complete the 
 game if u drink a nescaffe and set in front of your pc the whole day,, and ofcourse this is unlike 
 oblivion which offers more than 100 hours of gameplay (ya,, i know i compare prey with oblivion all 
 the time coz oblivion is the best in the market now)
  sorry for my English coz there is alot of words i wanted to tell but i didn't 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raistlen007
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 21, 2006 9:33 am PT
Review:  From the opening of the game, you realize that this is no average first person shooter. The short 
 intro sequence is stark contrast to where the game leads, and where it stays.
  
  From what I read is a tribute to its roots, the story is built around American Indian lore and 
 tradition, set inside an Alien-esque bio-metal sci fi world.
  
  The weapons aren't as fun as they could have been, but the game more than makes up for it with 
 it's nifty portal and gravity innovations.
  
  The graphics are top notch, as is the voice acting and the fantastic music.
  
  The gameplay 
 is just the right mix between puzzle and action, and I'm amazed that no one thought up the death 
 walk sequence a long time ago to get rid of the annoying Quicksave and Quickload intense gameplay 
 that usually goes with the FPS genre.
  
  I heavily recommend this game to gamers who enjoy FPSers and enjoy decent sci fi. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ramaveli
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 20, 2006 7:57 pm PT
Review:  Ten years ago, 3D Realms -- the creators of the popular Duke Nukem franchise -- announced an ambitious 
 shooter entitled Prey, a game that followed the storyline of a Cherokee man who gets abducted by 
 aliens. At the time, it stunned the gaming community with its ingenious Portal technology, boasting 
 doorways that opened out of thin air and transported you to different parts of the map. Almost 
 a decade later, Prey is finally upon us, and time has done wonders for it. 
  
  You play as Tommy, a Native American ex-military brat whose sole wish is to escape the Native reserve 
 he and his girlfriend Jen live on. As he tries to convince her to leave the reserve with him -- despite 
 the wishes of his grandfather, who wants him to embrace his Native heritage -- the three of them 
 are abducted by aliens and must escape the alien sphere that is wreaking havoc on the earth. The 
 action unfolds around you in real time without any cut scenes, all the while following Tommy's 
 perspective. His struggle is always kept pertinent by his comments on the situations surrounding 
 him during play. Great voice work is also used all around, including an appearance by famed conspiracy 
 nut Art Bell, as himself. 
  
  Prey's most unique features are its manipulation of gravity, and, of course, the Portal system. 
 The game toys with gravity in a couple different ways. Some rooms have switches that you can shoot, 
 directing gravity towards whichever wall the switch is on, and others have catwalks that allow 
 you to walk up walls, hang upside-down and disorient you in ways you wouldn't imagine. And, just 
 when you think you've gotten the hang of things, the game throws plenty of obstacles your way, 
 forcing you to combine Portal travelling, wall-walking and gravity flipping in order to make your 
 way through the alien ship. These features also make for some intense multiplayer action, though 
 the limited types of play -- death match and team death match -- make the multiplayer feel somewhat 
 like an afterthought. 
  
  Both of these features fit nicely with the level design and general ambiance of the alien ship. 
 The game makes effective use of the Doom 3 engine to create eerily organic environments and some 
 impressive graphical feats, combined with expansive outdoor settings which you traverse in a shuttle, 
 reminiscent of the old Descent games. Oddly enough, the gravity flipping very rarely feels contrived 
 or out of place. However, the hallmark Portal system is used somewhat ineffectively. Since the 
 game has a linear level design, the Portals are really nothing more than flashy doors'not to say 
 they're unimpressive, but you get the feeling that they could have been a lot more interesting. 
 
  
  The organic design of the game's visuals also takes a hold of the weapons in Prey. Although they're 
 used in the same way as any conventional shooter, almost every weapon in the game seems like it 
 could have a mind of its own. Your grenades, for example, are actually these little insects that 
 explode when you rip off one of their limbs. There's also a chain gun that's literally an alien 
 arm, as well as a leech gun that drains energy from certain energy nodes that provide various types 
 of ammunition. The real beauty behind these weapons, however, is that unlike most shooters, each 
 weapon is only really effective against certain types of enemies, obliging you to think fast when 
 there's more than one kind of enemy coming your way. 
  
  Being kept on your toes is good, since there's very little in the way of challenge in Prey. While 
 the action never really lets up during the game, the enemy AI isn't all that sharp. Some of your 
 enemies will take cover or try to grenade you on occasion, but in general they all exploit the 
 Portal system to pop up anywhere and everywhere in large waves. Though it avoids the "monster closet" 
 effect that Doom 3 had, it often feels like the enemies just aren't enough -- either that or you 
 were trained in the military for alien hunting. 
  
  It also doesn't help that death is sort of a non-event in the game. Early on, Tommy is taught by 
 his grandfather to "spirit walk" -- to leave his body and travel as a spirit. This, like gravity 
 flipping, is mostly used as a puzzle-solving device. However, it also allows you to survive death, 
 taking you to a spirit realm where you must shoot at red and blue wraiths to regain your health 
 and spirit before you are transported right back to where you died. This is all done seamlessly, 
 but it also takes away much of the challenge. Death becomes more of an annoyance than any real 
 threat. 
  
  Despite these gripes, Prey is still an entertaining game with some unique innovations, an immersive 
 if not borrowed storyline -- stick around after the credits roll -- and plenty of action to keep you 
 going. While there are certain elements that feel unfulfilled -- like the use of Portals, and the 
 rather shallow use of Native American mysticism -- Prey is a game I can easily recommend. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matthewleggee
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 20, 2006 7:56 pm PT
Review:  If you don't get motion sickness and you love a good quality shooter then Prey is the game for 
 you. This game looks fantastic on PC running on my system at full detail and plays great. The story 
 line although a bit dry and dragged on at times, is good. The AI isnt the greatest but the enemies 
 versatility makes them difficult at times. All in all this game is great I think expectations are 
 very high for shooters now a days given the amount of fps that there are on the market now adays 
 , thats what has led to some of the "iffy" reviews but as long as you dont mind the repetitiveness 
 of a good standard shooter then you will love Prey, system requirements are high but if u can run 
 it it looks great 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Musikman
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 19, 2006 10:52 pm PT
Review:  Prey is a work of art. Not just gameplay wise, but the story line is compelling and full of pure 
 creative mastery. Gameplay is fun and quick to get in too. Prey will urge players to get into the 
 storyline and enjoy playing while enjoying the amazing Doom 3 engine. The graphics and sound are 
 out of this world for the pc and 360. It takes FPS genre to a whole new level with much to say 
 for Human Head Studios. The storyline is WELL devolped along with characters and plot. Then everything 
 is tied together in a seamless intigration that makes prey amazing. The weapons are unique and 
 the combination of organic matter and technology couldn't be better. Download the demo, and do 
 yourself a favor, dive head first into Prey. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: provoko
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 19, 2006 7:39 pm PT
Review:  This game's story and action is on par with FEAR. It brings new and innovate concepts to the FPS 
 genre.
  
  You start off as bad ass native American who ends up on an alien mothership with your girlfriend 
 and grandfather. Soon you learn Cherokee magic and you're able to leave your body in gameplay as 
 a spirit and manipulate your environment and defeat your enemies.
  
  Features:
  -Continuous play, death doesn't stop the game
  -Amazing story, acting, atmosphere; you feel like 
 you're in the game
  -Multiplayer is unbelievable with portals and being able to walk or camp in anywhere (ceilings, 
 walls) .
  
  This game is seriously under rated, check out the demo and judge for your self, you won't be disappointed.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: silverfoxfoxfox
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jul 19, 2006 6:07 pm PT
Review:  I really thought that this was an interesting game. Good graphics combined with good sound is good. 
 But this game was abviously influenced by Doom. I'm not saying its an unoriginal game, but it's 
 too much like Doom. This whole story about cherokee indians is kinda cool along with this portal 
 idea, but I feel like they could have done more with the portals. The spirit skills you learn are 
 unique and fun though. I just feel that if you really want a game like this pick up Doom or Half-Life 
 2. This is on the other hand better than Quake 4. So its just an average game, don't expect too 
 much out of it. You will be intrigued while it lasts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_bi99man
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 19, 2006 3:14 pm PT
Review:  I just finished the game, and now it's time to tell everybody why this game is the best First Person 
 Shooter in years. Here's the breakdown.
  
  Graphics: Beautiful. The Doom 3 engine has shown its power in previous games, but it really shines 
 in Prey. It may not have the initial stun factor of games like F. E. A. R. and Oblivion, but Prey 
 is a very atmospheric game. Everything looks quite lifelike and the animations are all very smooth. 
 It's also one of the few first person shooters since HL2 that DOESN'T use ragdoll physics, but 
 you won't even notice, as the death animations are very believable and a majority of the enemies 
 blow up when they die, anyway. The constant twitching of your living weapons makes a surprising 
 difference in how lifelike the whole environment feels. Prey has also got to be one of the best 
 optimized games ever; as even a mid-range system will have little problems playing it maxed. Bottom 
 Line: An awesome looking game that damn near everyone can see.
  
  Sound: Immersive. While the guns dont sound quite as flashy as they look, the rest of the game 
 certainly delivers on sound. The soundtrack is absolutely epic, with a vast range of music suiting 
 every situation, all from the man behind the Guild Wars and Oblivion music. From the constant squishing 
 sounds of the living environment to the voice acting behind the characters, its a very audibly 
 pleasing game. They also throw in clips from Art Bells radio show that the mothership is picking 
 up from earth, which are very helpful in delivering the story, and the callers add a feeling of 
 reality by letting you know whats going on with the people who are still on earth. Bottom Line: 
 Whether youre playing with 2 speakers, surround sound, or headphones, the audio draws you into 
 the game as much as the visuals.
  
  Gameplay: Innovative. I have no idea why so many people are shrugging off Prey with comments like, 
 been there, done that. The gameplay in Prey is unlike anything the genre has ever seen. It certainly 
 doesnt revolutionize every aspect of the FPS (as I think a lot of people were thinking it would) , 
 but it does introduce a few new aspects that are very enjoyable and make Prey a must-play for anyone 
 who can stomach it. First there are the gravity tricks. Im not going to go into detail about every 
 little thing that they did with this alien technology, but I will say that you will need to realize 
 that there is no up or down in this game in order to play it without getting disoriented. The portals, 
 on the other hand, act more like a cosmetic pleaser than an actual gameplay altering feature, but 
 they do play their part. Like when you think youve explored an entire room and then enemies drop 
 from portals on the roof, or behind you. They have a few other instances where they are mostly 
 used as a means to create puzzles, which are quite entertaining.
  On another aspect of gameplay; Prey strikes me as a throwback to the days when games were meant 
 to be a joyride, rather than a heart-pounding, sweaty palms thriller (Im looking in your direction, 
 F. E. A. R., but theres nothing wrong with that) . Prey is a very easy game. Not because of stupid 
 enemies, or simple puzzles, but because of one sole feature; Deathwalk. When you die, you go to 
 the spirit realm, where you use your spirit bow to shoot flying wraiths to replenish health and 
 spirit power, before you dropped back into your body, coming to life exactly where you died. In 
 essence, you cant die in this game. That may turn off some people, but I kind of liked it. Whatever, 
 thats up to the player. Bottom Line: Prey is NOT like anything youve seen before, and deserves 
 a try from anyone who enjoys FPSs.
  
  Story/Presentation: Awesome. I praise these writers for taking an extremely well done premise (alien 
 abduction panic save world) , and making the best story to ever come out of the tractor beam. 
 You play as Tommy, a Cherokee mechanic (and awesomely realistic character who I came to love almost 
 as fast as I did with Duke Nukem) who wants nothing more than to abandon his cultures ways, and 
 move off the reservation with his girlfriend, Jen. His grandfather, Aneci, has apparently been 
 nagging him about embracing his heritage for a while, now. After a few minutes of what seems like 
 an ordinary day hanging out at the bar where Jen works, the whole place is abducted by an alien 
 ship (which is, by the way, the best abduction scene Ive ever watched/played, and you can see 
 it all in the demo if you dont want to buy the game just for that) . From here, Jen, Aneci and 
 you are all moved around the ship, going to who knows what fate, when a mysterious guy plants a 
 bomb that manages to at least get you out of your constraints, and sets you on your journey. The 
 story unfolds at a decent pace, and just when you think its about to end, it gets flipped on you 
 with an amazing twist, then another just as you think its over again. IMHO: The story and presentation 
 of the story are this game's highest points. Bottom Line: If you have any love for sci-fi stories 
 of alien invasions, you have got to play this game, or hope it gets made into a movie.
  
  Multiplayer: Lacking, but not for the reasons you would think. Preys online multiplayer, or Multiprey, 
 was an amazing experience, for the time when I got to try it. It appears, though, that just about 
 nobody is embracing this breath of fresh air, as I just checked the other day, and there wasnt 
 a single server online for it, and from what Ive heard, the 360 version isnt doing too much better 
 on XBL. The game only offers Deathmatch and Team Deathmatch, and on about 14 maps, but the gravity 
 tricks are fully implemented, making the maps highly replayable, and the frag fests absolutely 
 wild, if you can find enough to people to, you know, fill a server. Bottom Line: If enough people 
 read this review and check out Multiprey, it could the next big multiplayer shooter.
  
  In summary, Prey is an absolutely gorgeous game that you certainly dont need a $2,000 monster 
 PC to play maxed out. Great sound effects, shockingly good story, and (potentially) sweet multiplayer. 
 Try it out, as it is more than worth your time.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: diablo9601
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 19, 2006 2:30 pm PT
Review:  I recently bought this game because i heard that it had a great singleplayer mode... when i first 
 started playing it i was impressed by the things you could do turn on/off the lights play a mini 
 game on the computer, turn the tv on or off and change channels... i know that those aren't important 
 aspects in a game but it always gives that lil bit extra to it.. now i haven't finished the story 
 of the game yet but until now i find it interesting the storyline i mean by that, it has a easy 
 learning curve and you will probably spend many hours enjoying this game both singleplayer as multiplayer 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: firebreathing
Rating: 5.3
Date: Jul 19, 2006 2:15 pm PT
Review:  What this game does it takes a very good idea and completely dumbs it down. Let's begin shall we 
 
  
  Graphics: Not that bad, ran pretty good on my X850, but like Doom and FEAR, it suffers from not 
 having too much variety in the environment. All throughout the game you will either see living 
 ship/metal, outer part of sphere or just plain metal interior. At least FEAR had decent AI, which 
 I ma about to get to. 
  
  AI: After playing FEAR my expectations for AI have been raised so when I come across enemies that 
 aim at the wall when I am standing right next to them, don't really make any attempt to find cover 
 and randomly toss gernades around as if they were blind it really cheapens the game. 
  
  Gameplay: This might be a bit more fun if oh i don't know........ THERE WERE SOME SORT OF CHALLENGE!!! 
 When you "die" in this game you get transported to a spiritual plane where you shoot flying creatures 
 to regain your health and return to the game. Pretty much you're like Raziel, except you can't 
 die in the spectral plane, unless you're a complete dumbass. At least in Soul Reaver 2 the demons 
 could actually follow you into the spectral plane thus adding a challenge. In reality you don't 
 really ever die, you just lose some time. The puzzles in this game aren't exactly hard, they usually 
 involve spirit walking through a shield and flipping a switch, if even that. Wallwalking might 
 be cool if it hadn't been done before. Anyone remember being the Alien in Alien vs Predator??? 
 This was when AGP cards had just came out, so I'd expect a little more innovation given that large 
 of a time gap. Switching gravity via shooting switches on the wall is again, like playing as the 
 Alien, except more restricting in what you can actually do. 
  
  Sound: It's not bad, it's not perfect, it's just there. It doesn't really make the game any better/worse. 
 
  
  Story: This is about the only decent thing whitin the game, only due to the fact that it has a 
 few twists in the plot. The rest of the "story" as you might call it is like the sound, it's just 
 there. 
  
  Hopefully he second Prey will be much better, I wouldn't count on it though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Homes225
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 19, 2006 1:58 pm PT
Review:  The first good thing about Prey is the graphics are beautiful and have low requirements. Prey also 
 has a story that is new and not many games have given us this look into the alien theme quite like 
 Prey does. While the alien weapons are different they are just a skin of common weapons in FPS 
 but the idea is still a good one. Prey also sports crazy physics that will have you doing difficult 
 puzzles upside down and blasting aliens while standing on a wall. Prey is 60% and 40% puzzles which 
 make you think a lot and can be boring at times when you wanna just shoot the ugly aliens. If you 
 get stuck in puzzles your pet falcon/hawk can help at times but rarely does he help that much. 
 Prey also keeps the player on his toes with creepy scenes but lags behind with stupid A. I. While 
 the multiplayer has many twists and turns it is the same as unreal just with a different look. 
 Another downside is the many loads between levels can be annoying. At the end of the 10-15 hours, 
 Prey is a unique FPS that is fun but it just doesn't have the material needed to compete with FPS 
 classics like HL. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hyttsten
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 19, 2006 1:26 pm PT
Review:  First of all, when I first read about this game I whas like "Hmmm, can this be true?"
  But it shure was. The game is about Tommy who has a bad day. He don't like the place he lives in, 
 he has a problem with his girlfriend, and just to top things a bit better. Aliens are comming to 
 town. But the thing about this game is the darkness and the indien rites plus the brutality is 
 just one bag of love. There are elements in this game like gravity that will make you sick, there 
 will be scenes where you hate the developers for the game not for holding anything back. In particuler 
 when you se kids die (a big minus if you ask me who is a father) .
  But the game look great. Human Head Studios have done a great job with the Quake engin. I dont 
 have the super-duper PC and the games runs good (witch means good koding) .
  
  The game is a dangures comination of FPS and a horror movie. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beedubaya
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 19, 2006 11:09 am PT
Review:  After reading all the bad reviews about Prey, I had doubts about whether I should actually get 
 the game or not. I decided to get it and play it for myself. Prey is a game with a lot of potential, 
 as other reviewers have said. It doesnt use its potential to its fullest. Not only that, it seems 
 to get worse as the game progresses. Dont get me wrong, the game was fun, it just has some shortcomings 
 that are impossible to overlook.
  
  For one, the game is entirely too linear. Most of the time, there is only one open path you can 
 take. I dont think Ive ever played an FPS that was this linear. At least in Doom 3 had to take 
 a certain path, find a keycard, then backtrack to the door you need. You had more freedom to move 
 about the facility. The portals were a great opportunity to mix things up, and make the path confusing 
 or even have multiple paths to a destination. Instead, as the gamespot reviewer said, the portals 
 were more like "doors."
  
  Second, the acting on the part of the main character, Tommy, is probably the worst Ive seen in 
 a game, ever. When he starts talking (whining) to himself, it sounds so fake I just want to scream 
 SHUT UP! I mean it is so bad that it destroys any sense of atmosphere the game has. Then theres 
 the scenes with the grandfather, where all Tommy can do is whine She needs me, send me back, I 
 dont care what you have to say, she needs me! Of course, Tommy is referring to his girlfriend, 
 whom the object of the game is to rescue.
  
  While these two points take so much away from the game, it is still fun to play. The graphics are 
 great, powered by the Doom 3 engine. It runs smoother than previous Doom 3 engine titles have. 
 The fighting style hails from the Doom/Quake era. The portals/gravity, while not used to their 
 full potential, do add an interesting aspect to this game. All in all, I dont feel I wasted my 
 time and money on this game. I just think it could have been a whole lot better than it was.
  
  I only recommend this game if youve played out other great FPS titles such as Half Life 2, 
 Quake 4, and FEAR, and are in need of a decent single player FPS. If not, get one of those games, 
 and skip over Prey.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrhankeydinks
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 19, 2006 10:58 am PT
Review:  First let me start off by saying that this review will not completely bash this game in anyway 
 or will I completely undermine the fact that it had short comings. In all honesty this review at 
 times will sound like Game spots review except I actually liked the game. Now lets get to talking 
 about this seven hour trip.
  
  Prey is one of the few games next to Half-Life 2 that I think has a very well thought out story. 
 Basically youre Tommy and you dont really like the fact that you are Cherokee and you want your 
 girlfriend, Jen, to leave the reservation with you. This is what you, Tommy, would like to do. 
 After beating two sexual harassment offenders in Jens bar and one too many you are abducted by 
 aliens. Thats all youre getting out of me for the story. Honestly I thought this had a very intriguing 
 story line with some cool twist and turns and very odd points in it. At times though you will feel 
 there isnt a story but if you pay attention to the voices in your head you can figure out whats 
 going on. 
  Another high point in this game is the overall sound and musical score features 3 hours of listening. 
 I wont buy the soundtrack but it engrossed you into the game a whole lot more than some other 
 games I have played. While the ambient sound is also good in its own aspects and the guns all sound 
 like they would completely annihilate something from existence which they do. Not only do the guns 
 sound cool but they are also some of the most unique weapons I have seen. Having three-legged insects 
 legs be used as grenades and then another weapon that I swear looks like it is shooting some type 
 of alien fetus at you will make you wonder what exactly was going through the developers minds. 
 The musical score is what is going to keep you going through this game. Although ,at times you 
 may or may not want to turn down the volume it depends if you like having a very creepy female/alien/was 
 human laughing in your right ear and causing it to bleed. 
  Game play in a game is always an important factor to have. Well at first I wasnt sure if I would 
 like the portals. Now that that I have beaten the game I can say that not only is this game unique 
 in the use of portals and gravity its also very intense. The one flaw in this really is while 
 being invincible is cool it doesnt add much to the game, after a while it gets kind of repetitive. 
 When I say invincible I mean you die and go to the spirit world where you battle spirits to regain 
 spirit health and normal health. It was interesting the first few times. Now then Im going to 
 be as bold as to say I had more fun with this game than Doom 3 or Quake 4 for the very reason it 
 is intense, quick, fast paced, and fun. Plus the awesome weapons you really couldnt do much wrong. 
 Puzzles in the game actually require some thought at times and sometimes they are fairly easy. 
 Since puzzles could involve portals, gravity, or blowing something up it really is unique in that 
 fact also. Basically the developers new what they were doing when they brought portals like this 
 into gaming. I may also need to mention you do get use some sort of alien space craft during the 
 game which it is fun and breaks up the run and gunning of the game.
  Now I dont seem to be focusing on graphics much. While they are important to me it is the Doom 
 3 Engine. We should all know it can render beautiful and disgusting (in a good way) environments. 
 This engine worked well with PREY to render some of its fantastic worlds. While some people may 
 say it is more of a Mod. Honestly it isnt. People said that about Sin Episodes Emergence but you 
 need to look more closely at it to see it does have its own art style of sense of its own in the 
 engine. While there is one enemy that looks very identical to one from the Doom universe most of 
 the Aliens and creatures seem to be more inspired from movies such as Alien or the latest installment 
 Alien vs. Predator.
  The only thing I think the developers did wrong was one, it is short it actually only took me seven 
 hours to beat, and you cant die which gets rid of a feeling of anxiousness and worry when your 
 close to death. So I give them thumbs up for doing something new and making it work very well. 
 It probably would have been better if it was longer. If you want something to keep you busy through 
 the summer drag I would definitely suggest this game. It is also worth replaying through one more 
 time maybe two more times. This game gets 9.0 out of 10 for me.
  
  Reviewed on the following System:
  3.2GHz Dual Core Pentium D Processor
  2 GB of RAM
  X800 
 256MB RAM
  250GB Hard Drive
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gogokun
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 19, 2006 8:28 am PT
Review:  While the bulk of Prey contains what you would find in any decent FPS, there are many unique gameplay 
 mechanics that help it stand out, and the art direction in the visuals help it become unlike any 
 FPS before it. 
  
  There are alot of clever puzzles in Prey, and most of them need to be solved by spirit walking. 
 Spirit walking is initiated when you press Y, and it causes you to actually leave your body and 
 walk through obstacles your human form couldn't normally reach. While it could have been expanded 
 on much more, it certainly adds alot of depth to the gameplay. Of course, most of the game you'll 
 be in your human form, shooting aliens with a wide assortment of strange alien weapons. Most of 
 them are your standard FPS fare (this has got to be the first FPS without pistols) ; you've got 
 your rifle, your minigun, your bazooka, your shotgun, and so on. But there are some weapons that 
 have different functions than you might expect. One is a gun that uses different types of ammo 
 depending on what color station you charge it up at (this also happens to be my favorite weapon) , 
 another is a multi-purpose gun, which comes complete with a bazooka and a bullet-proof forcefield. 
 
  
  All of the weapons, however, look like nothing you've ever seen. The look that they were going 
 for is organic materials mixed with machinery. They absolutely nailed it. As you walk around, you'll 
 see eyeballs starting to come out of your weapon, tentacles moving, and more creepy things like 
 that that really make the weapons stand out. The environments look just as creepy, with human limbs 
 being spit out of openings in the cround, slits in the wall that spew out creatures, eggs hatching 
 and attacking you, and alot of other gross things that fit in with the whole theme of the game. 
 The game's graphics are outstanding from an artistic standpoint as well as a technical one. The 
 lighting in this game is second to none, all of the textures are highly detailed, alien blood flies 
 on walls in real time, there are alot of elements that come together to make Prey look fantastic.
 
  
  The sound is great too, though weapons sound a little on the quiet side. But the music and voice 
 acting are both top notch. I loved Tommy's little comments throughout the game, most of them involving 
 cursing, but it helps keep the game feeling cinematic, which brings me to the story. It's not really 
 the actual story that blew me away, but it was more how it was presented. There is not a single 
 cutscene in the game (except the very end) , and that opening sequence in the restaraunt is not 
 one I will soon forget. Very impressive, indeed.
  
  Prey is a pretty long game single-player wise, with about 10 hours of length, but then you've got 
 online multiplayer which is extremely fun. It won't be replacing Halo 2 anytime soon, but the unique 
 levels help it stay fresh. There is alot of fast-paced fun to be had in multiplayer.
  
  Prey is a very impressive game overall, and its appeal is undeniable. This would certainly make 
 a fine addition to any FPS fan's library, and I can easily recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trevor_25
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 19, 2006 7:28 am PT
Review:  Now I know all of you by now have read the Gamespot review for this game. The score says 7.5, but 
 what is in that score? Sometimes I think game rankers and critics are too nitpicky and miss out 
 on the fact that a game is just fun. Prey falls into this category. While its not exactly revolutionary, 
 it does introduce some unique gameplay features that you are starting to see more of in the FPS 
 genre. Think portals and grav walls.
  
  Lets start out with the story, because what I thought started out pretty weak turned out to be 
 a strength for this game. You play as Tommy, a cherokee indian who doesnt believe much in the spiritual 
 world. You are assisted by your grandfather Enisi (where are kid's parents these days?) who believes 
 very much and sees in you the ability to save the world. Pretty high expectations if you ask me. 
 Also involved is your girlfriend Jen, who is hot, and also believes in the Cherokee traditions. 
 You see where I am going with this? The unbeliever will save them all!!!! Weird how that works 
 out. Anyways, the gist of the story is the earth is attacked by the Sphere, an alien race that 
 has been using the earth as a food supply for thousands of years. Tommy, Enisi and Jen all get 
 sucked up in the attack and with the help of some unknown agents, Tommy escapes and must fight 
 his way out while trying to save Enisi and Jen. Nothing too special, but trust me this is just 
 the beginning and the story has some surprises.
  
  Perhaps the biggest strength of the game is the gameplay. The game features really two new aspects 
 to the FPS to be used extensively for both puzzle solving and fighting: portals and grav walls/gravity 
 changers. The alien race uses portals to zip around the massive sphere. Although for some reason 
 they also use regular doors and shuttle craft as well. You would think they would save on expenses 
 by just using the portals, but I digress. Anyways, enemies can use these portals to appear out 
 of no where. In front of you, behind you, above or below. This makes for some frantic fight sequences 
 as you must first locate where your enemy is shooting you from. The portals tie directly in with 
 the use of the grav walls, which allow you to walk up, down and sideways. This turns floors into 
 ceilings and walls into floors. You might be in a room where after pathfinding your way to the 
 ceiling, you will be shooting at enemies that are now below you. Some of these rooms will also 
 have what I refer to as gravity changers. These are big buttons that switch the center of gravity 
 in the room so the floor you are standing on becomes the ceiling as you go tumbling up, thats right 
 up. This makes for some interesting puzzles as the game goes. The puzzles are not very hard, but 
 they are fun. As you can imagine, after a few grav changes Tommy wont be feeling to well either. 
 Watch out below!!!
  
  The fighting is pretty straightforward FPS. The action gets intense and you dont get a nice selection 
 of enemies to choose from. There are also plenty of weapons to find and use to kill the baddies 
 including a leech gun and crab bomb gun (you will see when you play) . The most interesting aspect 
 of the game that is mostly used puzzle and pathfinding sequences is the spirit walking. Tommy as 
 a Cherokee has the ability to enter the spirit world and move through obstacles his regular body 
 could not. You can even take out baddies in this mode with the use of your spirit bow, however 
 I definitely feel this kind of fighting was underused and hopefully will be fleshed out further. 
 In order to use your bow you have to fill up your spirit meter, which is done by collecting the 
 spirits of your vanquished enemies. Pretty standard stuff there. I definitely feel that this feature 
 could have been better utilized. Tommy's other ability as a Cherokee, and the feature that makes 
 this game so easy, is used when he dies. Tommy takes damage like any normal human, but when he 
 dies he goes to the spirit plain and must then kill lost souls to restore his health. While this 
 feature is interesting, it makes the game to easy. One of the cool aspects of the fighting in this 
 game is that you dont know where attacks are going to come from. They can come from above, behind 
 or below due to the enemies use of portals and grav walls. Because you dont really die however, 
 you can just run into a room take as much damage to figure out where the enemies are located and 
 then be resurrected in the exact location you died. So essentially there is not reward for skill 
 in this game. This system might be better utilized by giving Tommy a finite number of these "spirit 
 saves" or perhaps when Tommy renegerates he must go back to the last save point. The way it is, 
 the game is just to easy.
  
  The graphics and sound are very good in this game. The environments are dark and have a DOOM like 
 feel. The character modeling is solid and elements like weapon fire and explosions are nice and 
 big. The music picks up and drops off as the action dictates. There are not very many cut scenes 
 in this game and the ones that are present are short and to the point. The sound and graphics are 
 an overall plus for this game.
  
  In all this game adds some new features to the FPS genre and is action packed. Gamers will be pleased 
 with the level of graphics and sound, but find the game to often be to easy. This game can easily 
 be beaten in a weekend. It does feature multi player mode, which with the portals and grav walls 
 is fun. Definitely worth checking out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JestaDude
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 19, 2006 7:05 am PT
Review:  When you look at this game all by itself, it's a fun and innovative FPS! When you look at this 
 game in comparison to others, it's not really worth the price tag. 
  The game itself has a lot of concepts that you have probably already heard other reviewers talk 
 about like walking on walls, leaving your body, bending gravity, and using spacecrafts. Portals, 
 a revived Doom3 engine, and some cool looking guns also add to the well done visual appeal of this 
 game. The story line and characters are all original and something to get used to. Plus, this game 
 has a few interesting puzzles and some very memorable moments.
  
  YOU: So, all in all, this game is pretty fun, right?
  
  ME: Yes.
  
  YOU: So I should go 
 out and buy it, right?
  
  ME: No!
  
  YOU: Wtf?
  
  First off, lemme explain why it's not worth the price in one blunt sentence.
  "It's too short 
 and there's no replay value."
  Unfortunately you have probably heard this from many other reviews, but it's true. The game itself 
 is great. Nice concepts, nice looks, and a nice play. The only problem is what happens after you 
 beat it. The answer, is nothing. No unlockables, nothing special happens. You just get the chance 
 to play through it again on a harder difficulty. This doesn't make the already average A. I. any 
 smarter, it just makes them harder to kill. 
  
  What about multiplayer?
  
  After playing the demo's multiplayer which featured Deathmatch and Team Deathmatch, I was excited. 
 It was really fun if you got on a nice server with little lag. After buying the game though, and 
 finding out that those were the only modes that would be featured in the full game, I was disappointed. 
 A nice selection of maps and a balanced set of items spread throughout the maps make for a nice 
 Deathmatch. Though, like I had said, that's about all there is to it.
  
  So, if you love FPS's, can run this game to it's fullest, and don't mind dishing out 50 bucks, 
 then by all means go for it! Though, if you're just looking for a game to play, or you played the 
 demo all the way through, then buying it will be a disappointment. You will probably get through 
 it in about 4-8 hours if you're a run and gun kinda person. I'd also like to mention that you can't 
 die in this game. At all. This may be a bonus for some people, but for me, it makes for no challenge 
 at all. 
  
  Well, thats about as far as I'm going. It was more of a "Whether or not I should buy it" type of 
 review and I hope it helped. Thanks for reading. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alkim223
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 20, 2006 1:14 pm PT
Review:  This is what i have to say about prey.
  
  It is a straight forward fps. what i mean by that it that it is very linear, you will not get lost, 
 its impossible!! Am gonna give you the pros and cons, if you have read other people's reviews some 
 stuff i say might be similar. Here we go:
  
  Pros: Dying has never been better. Once you die you shoot some flying things i forgot what they 
 are lol, then continue from exactly where you were. The graphics are great because i have a crappy 
 gfx card but i can play it on high settings. Portals will be a bit confusing a first but understandable 
 later. Wallwalking is the sweetest thing!!!! upside down... on the side, shooting enemies who are 
 right above you is nice. pretty mind twisting stuff.
  
  Cons: **For me** the story wasn't that great, it was almost less story more action which kinda 
 took away some fun. The game was too linear, by that i mean its a straightforward game, almost 
 no dead ends, which ever way you go is the right way. (did i mention this before? hmm oh well)
 
  
  Anyway i had lots of fun playing it. If you haven't played it i suggest you get it and play it! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jason_Morris
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jul 18, 2006 2:35 pm PT
Review:  Well, this game is sooo close to being great, and sooo messes it up where you wouldn't expect...
 
  
  The graphics are the best use of the Doom 3 engine I've seen, there's a "Wow" moment every ten 
 minutes or so; it's not just the quality of the graphics' resolution and detail, but it's the brilliant 
 imagination in the alien design and environments are also, frankly, jaw-dropping. Gameplay's fun, 
 if not as revolutionary as the other ideas, and the AI is downright old school, sadly.
  
  Some nice classic rock (hey, I used to play guitar in a Judas Priest tribute band, cut me some 
 slack!) and incidental music, the sound effects could do with being a little more "icky" to help 
 you smell the gross atmosphere. And gross some of this is! Ewwww! Is that what it looks like in 
 the wall??? No wonder it has an 18 rating!
  
  While not long, it's not anywhere as short as I F. E. A. Red ;-) and the level design is pretty heavily 
 linear, missing an opportunity for serious confusion with those portals.
  
  None of the game's weaknesses are at all fatal... ... apart from one.
  
  You cannot die.
  
 
  I'm not a fan of "spiritual" stuff at all, and the spiritual stuff in this is pretty annoying, 
 but the "Deathwalk", where you shoot flying fishes (yes, I know they're supposed to be wraiths) 
 to top up your health before being dropped in exactly where you died, just completely robs the 
 game of all tension, and makes a supposedly scary game as scary as the Teletubbies (well, they're 
 scarier, actually) . It all but destroys the game. Along with the "automatic" difficulty being rather 
 easy (to say the least) , you sometimes wonder for who's benefit the scary music's for!
  
  Still worth it just for the "wow" factor, and the fact that immortality aside, it's a really good 
 game, just don't expect to ever break into a sweat playing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: moriwenne
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 18, 2006 12:05 pm PT
Review:  I usually agree with gamespot and actually use their scores to guide my game choices. This one 
 only got a 7.5 while for instance HalfLife 2: Episode 1 got an 8.7 and I really don't know why, 
 in fact let us review and I'll try to undo all the bashing while trying to compare it to Ep 1.
 
  
  We start off with the technical bit. The graphics are great. They use the doom engine and so they 
 have that same feel BUT they are much better. They used it to produce some great closed tunnels 
 but also wide areas so in my opinion no one can bash this game for being just another tunneled 
 voyage. I have just an average computer (2.8Ghz with a 6800GS) and it runs very smoothly so give 
 some credit to them for getting the big nice pics and a great framerate at the same time. Those 
 wall walking pads are just gorgeous, the guns, the enemies also great looking. 
  Episode one has some great looking graphics aswell, different kind but great so they are both top 
 notch in this area.
  
  The story is what it is meaning that I don't expected it to be oscar material. It's a freaking 
 FPS so although I expect a good storyline with a twist or two it's still a game for me to shoot 
 anything and everything. So it's good enough and it really doesn't differ much from all the other 
 FPS out there. 
  Episode one really lacks a story, you just have to escape and there you go, nothing else is there.
 
  
  The sound is also very good and the game has some great moments where the music really fits the 
 feel. Episode one overall sound is good but nothing that stands out also.
  
  The gameplay is also great. The game evolves smoothly. The weapons have a good feel and while using 
 the standard styles they have some originality to them. The AI is decent and the enemies grow in 
 strength and are quite challenging at the end BUT the developers decided to implemment that non-death 
 aspect which basically means you never die. It really makes you feel the game is too easy but in 
 my opinion it really works. You basically have no need to quicksave, quickload, you just have to 
 keep on going. They do have a harder mode that you unlock once you finish the game and that was 
 a mistake, it should be available from the beggining but let's not beat them up because of it. 
 They also have put in several puzzles which go from easy to interesting and that's all that matters 
 really. You want to shoot stuff, so sitting around because a puzzle is too hard is not the idea, 
 so easy but interesting puzzles give you something to do while they keep you moving foward.
  Episode one really seems to be more puzzle oriented than action which in my opinion really sucked. 
 I mean the game is already small in length and if it weren't from all the extra run around it would 
 be really small.
  
  I haven't tested the multiplayer aspect but from what I read it seems to be pretty standard. But 
 with all the multiplayer oriented games out there (battlefield 2, unreal tournament, F. E. A. R., etc) 
 i kinda don't really mind if these have no decent multiplayer, even if they do they'll never reach 
 the others quality level. The ambiance and extra harder mode make me want to shoot them aliens 
 all over again so it has some replay value. The length is not has announced by many. It really 
 is a 10hours game or so and it is my belief that not all games have to have the farcry open style 
 to be lenghty.
  
  IN CONCLUSION
  What it is:
  Great graphics
  Decent Story
  Great ambiance with nice enemies, good small and wide spaces all using the doom engine.
  You 
 don't die so no saving required.
  Good length, plenty of killing, plenty of interesting puzzles.
  
  What it is NOT:
  Repetitive 
 graphics
  Repetitive old story
  Too easy, not a challenge.
  Too small. Dull puzzles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gugi_nayar
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 18, 2006 10:25 am PT
Review:  Prey had been in the works for nearly ten years before its recent release. It is a bit over-hyped 
 though and it was really the great advertising that got me into getting this game earlier then 
 I normally would have done. The game does provide the player with some entertainment but it is 
 quite short and leaves you a bit unsatisfied towards the end. Its not that the game doesnt have 
 potential, the thing is, the potential was never fully tapped.
  
  The original ideas of the game were conceived somewhere around 1996-97 but the project never really 
 appealed to the developers at that time and was hence abandoned. But, Human Head Studios took up 
 the project, and with the help of the engine that ran the likes of Doom 3 finally released the 
 game a few days ago. Though there are twists and turns here and there, but, they are very few in 
 number and not hard enough in difficulty. The game is mostly linear in its path and can be finished 
 in quite a short amount of time.
  
  The main character of the game is Tommy, a Cherokee Indian, who is a bit indifferent about his 
 heritage and wants to leave the reservation. But he also wants his girlfriend, Jen, to accompany 
 him. Here's where the initial troubles begin as Jen would rather stay at the reservation. And before 
 you know, an alien invasion transports Tommy, his grandfather and Jen on a weird spacecraft. Now 
 it is up to Tommy to save Jen, and along the way, the world as well. 
  
  The basic ideas and gameplay are just standard FPS techniques and the game unfortunately isn't 
 innovative enough to stand alone in its genre. The levels are mostly linear and you'll end spending 
 most of your time in one combat or the other. Even these combats are not very challenging as the 
 aliens attack in small number and usually rush at you for a melee attack. Those that are armed 
 with some sort of guns will circle around you before attacking. However if you stay out in the 
 open too long a few of them might charge together or throw alien grenades at you, but, they can 
 be easily defeated as well. The basic problem of this game is its weak AI. In other such FPS games 
 you could expect aliens to charge at you from all directions and youd have had to constantly be 
 on the alert. But, in this game even a small awareness of your surroundings can easily get you 
 through.
  
  There are two features of this game which offer a scent of innovation but like all other features 
 of the game, have not been fully utilized. The first one is the games use of Portals. As the name 
 suggests, these portals will transport you to different parts of the spaceship. The portals also 
 let you se the other side and fire weapons through them. There are a few unique portals that do 
 more than just teleportation. Some of them will transport you to the same room but instead of the 
 floor, you could find yourself walking on the floor or ceiling which might surprise you once or 
 twice but it is relatively easy to get used to. And besides this and one or two more unique ones, 
 the portals are basically just doors. 
  
  Playing with gravity is the second of the two features and is the better of the two. As mentioned 
 above, some portals can land you on ceilings and walls of the same room that you just crossed. 
 The result can be quite surprising at the beginning, but, as this keeps happening again and again, 
 youll find no difference between walking on walls and the floor and theyll just appear as a weird 
 floor. Besides portals, powered walkways will also let you walk on walls and ceilings. There are 
 also some areas where you have to shoot an object to change the gravity settings. Be prepared for 
 spinning rooms when that happens, but dont worry its nothing too hard to get used to and doesnt 
 happen too often.
  
  Due to Tommys mystical Cherokee heritage, a while into the game he gains the ability of spirit-walk. 
 Spirit-walk means that his soul can leave his body and this is the main puzzle solving element 
 of the game. While Tommy is armed with a variety of weapons when in normal form, in spirit form 
 he only has his mystical bow which is very powerful and can kill enemies in one shot. It is only 
 in spirit form that he can walk through force fields. There are also some pathways which are only 
 activated when he is in spirit form. This mode is used for puzzle solving as he walks through force 
 fields and special paths, he can clear a way and activate doors and passages for his mortal body. 
 A great benefit of this feature is the spirit-realm. When you die, you are transported into the 
 spirit realm where your spirit form must shoot at red and blue wraiths to regain your health and 
 spirit-energy respectively. This stage lasts for about 15-20 seconds at the end of which, you are 
 transported back to the living world, right where you left off. This feature eliminates the death 
 element and encourages you to continue the game. You can also understand aliens while in this mode. 
 But unfortunately when theyre talking in English, they lose their menacing touch.
  
  The Multiplayer of this game is not very interesting. With death match (both single and team death 
 match) the only gaming option available it does tend to lose its replay value. However a plus point 
 of this game is that the maps of the multiplayer are well designed. Portals also play better in 
 the multiplayer. Though the number of available maps is less, the amount available looks quite 
 good. The multiplayer might keep you interested for some time but not for too long. 
  
  The quality video of the game is its only solid point. As it is uses the same engine which was 
 used by the likes of Doom3, you can expect some high quality graphics. But like the other features 
 of this game, this ability hasnt been tapped to its full potential. As you walk through narrow 
 passages and small halls through the most part of the game, you might not notice the quality of 
 graphics. However on the few occasions that you pass through large halls you might wish to stay 
 a minute longer just to admire how wonderfully they have been crafted. The whole organic weapons 
 thing also looks interesting. 
  
  The sound is okay but nothing too special. The games soundtrack does sound good at times but is 
 mostly subdues. The weapon sounds suffer from the same defect. There are on or two occasions where 
 the sound picks up during a battle and gives you that true FPS feel but soon enough its back to 
 the same mode. The dialog is quite good. The voice-overs of games characters have been done very 
 well. Even the aliens sound good at the beginning but as mentioned earlier once you are in spirit 
 form and can understand their speech, they lose their menacing touch.
  
  Overall the game does have a few good points but theyve not been fully utilized. The game looks 
 and sounds good but the short and relatively easy single-player campaign only gives a hint of the 
 vast potential this game had, but not utilized. There were many good concepts introduced such as 
 portals, gravity effects and spirit-walk but one would definitely like to see them used in a more 
 challenging manner. The game had already been delayed ten years, a few more months of developing 
 might have actually given us a legendary game. Though the game has very little replay value, you 
 will enjoy the first time you play it.
  
  Go Play!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: VMAN-Vercetti
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 18, 2006 9:36 am PT
Review:  Prey is compared to Doom 3 and Quake IV only because it uses the same engine as them. 
  I believe that Prey adds a whole lot of features, having a revolutionary gameplay.
  
  But not 
 the extreme gameplay and cool graphics make this game unique, but it's storyline. It still delivers 
 shivers down my spine when I think it up.
  Extremely original.
  
  Altough far from beeing as hardcore as Doom 3, Prey is quire challenging and the riddles that the 
 producers thought up are worthwhile.
  
  Basically, Prey is about a Cherokee that gets upducted by aliens, along with his girlfriend. Tommy, 
 as his name is, turns the entire alien civilization upside down to save his girl, but only to find 
 her dead. Quite sad. But I can't say what delight you will have if you will give this game a chance.
 
  
  I recommend this game from all my heart! Buy it! It's worth it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fahim_zak
Rating: 5.8
Date: Jul 18, 2006 9:13 am PT
Review:  
  Prey isn't a bad game, it's actually a good game, fun to play, the whole native american stuff 
 with the spirit walk is really nice.
  But it just reminds me too much of Quake 4, the environment looks the same, some of the weapons 
 really remind me of the weapons in Quake, and the gameplay also reminds me of it.
  But still, Quake was real fun, so prey is also alot of fun, the gameplay is good despite it's similarity 
 to quake, stressing in the parts when ur in a small and dark place, walking slowly and carefully, 
 waiting for some monster to jump at u, and full of adrenaline when ur in a big room, running and 
 shooting down all of the aliens.
  
  So the single is great, but i didnt like the multi... which in my opinion is more important then 
 the single.
  
  so, despite it's great single, unless u really like singles and dont mind playing it for 10 hours 
 then leaving it on the shelve, dont buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SplinterCellSC2
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 18, 2006 6:21 am PT
Review:  I love this game and think, although the editor's review is technically right on, I feel, the special 
 effects and over all creative way they use the physics ideas, (ie) Wall Walking & Spirit Walkiing, 
 etc. Out-weigh the otherwise critical "nit-pics" about the rest of it. I see it as an 8.5 
  
  I have an idea about how to use Spirit Walk, for something other than getting through forcefields. 
 Wouldn't it be interesting if you could possess the body of an alien and take over his weapon, 
 passing basically un-challenged by other aliens? Or if while in Spirit Walk, you have the ability 
 to create your own Spirit portal, through which you can choose the location you would like to travel 
 to get a view of another room?
  
  I will play through the rest fo the game and return here to post my final thoughts but for now. 
 I actually like this game!
  
  Sgt. SplinterCellSC20 :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lokisul
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 18, 2006 3:36 am PT
Review:  Got to admit, its a great story, bit of a bummer at the end but still!!! The weapons remind me 
 a lot of the basic guns you get in every game, so not good there, but the new spirt walk and gravity 
 effects was quite good...
  
  Was some funny bits if you take the time to listen to the radio transmittions hehe, and the deathwalk 
 was intrestin as when you die... u dont die.. in fact u get more of a chance to go on... Some intrestin 
 features i got to admit
  
  All in all, great story, but its the same old fps as always! I finished this game in one sittin, 
 and was really dissapointed at the end. 
  
  Im yet to try this on multiplayer, but lookin fwd to tryin grav platin on it lol!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DuBi_ZuBi
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 18, 2006 12:12 am PT
Review:  Prey isn't a bad game, it's actually a good game, fun to play, the whole native american stuff 
 with the spirit walk is really nice.
  But it just reminds me too much of Quake 4, the environment looks the same, some of the weapons 
 really remind me of the weapons in Quake, and the gameplay also reminds me of it.
  But still, Quake was real fun, so prey is also alot of fun, the gameplay is good despite it's similarity 
 to quake, stressing in the parts when ur in a small and dark place, walking slowly and carefully, 
 waiting for some monster to jump at u, and full of adrenaline when ur in a big room, running and 
 shooting down all of the aliens.
  
  So the single is great, but i didnt like the multi... which in my opinion is more important then 
 the single.
  
  so, despite it's great single, unless u really like singles and dont mind playing it for 10 hours 
 then leaving it on the shelve, dont buy it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: auxus
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 17, 2006 8:31 pm PT
Review:  I Had enjoy a lot this game it got me from the start up to the end all the way without sleeping 
 , it's very original , had good graphics and a good sound, the Story Line is something that hook 
 you into it and makes you feel and think as u are were in the game , Recomended A+++++++, very 
 excellent... From the start up to the end gives you a sensation , to be him, and try kick some 
 asses. Prey in definitive brings back the emotions for players to enjoy a very good game as Halo 
 did a few years ago! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sudantha8527
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 17, 2006 7:52 pm PT
Review:  Prey is the most easiest FPS I have ever played
  
  The GOOD: The graphics are supe does'nt take much resources as Doom 3, the sound and the soundtracks 
 are unreal. The story is good, but Doom 3 did a better job with the story. Bit scary at times which 
 is a good thing. The challenge is staying alive but if you do end up dying you still can continue 
 from where you die.
  
  The BAD: Not much of a challenge in the game cause you come back from the dead, very easy. Not 
 so much of a game play difference from Doom 3 and Quake 4, shoot the bad guys, some what more puzzles 
 in the game.
  
  Overall I had fun playing the game, but it kind of felt like I was playing Quake 4 again. The sounds 
 are cool, so are the graphics, the story is what kept me goin on to finish the game. Really easy 
 game play. I wish there were more difficulty levels 
::::::

::::::
UserName: YukoAsho
Rating: 6.9
Date: Jul 17, 2006 5:59 pm PT
Review:  Prey is an odd one to review. On the one hand, its got quite a few ambitious concepts, an unusual 
 occurrence in the largely generic first-person shooter genre. On the other hand, its way too damned 
 easy and short for the price of admission (from $50 for the standard PC version to $70 for the 
 collectors edition on Xbox 360) . Its a shame, too, because Prey had the potential to be so much 
 better than it turned out being, and its just frustrating to see such potential go to waste.
 
  What everyone wants to know, first and foremost, is how the game looks like. To say the least, 
 the game is exceedingly awesome graphically. The Doom 3 engine is used perfectly here to convey 
 the grotesque innards of this biotech environment. Theres a whole lot of slimy surfaces to be 
 seen, and more than a few will move ominously, undulating to an unseen beat. As a tradeoff for 
 that detail, however, the number of different enemy types in the game is rather lacking. In total, 
 there are maybe 10 non-boss enemy types youll find when plowing through Prey, not counting bosses 
 that are later toned down for use as non-boss enemies. This isnt to say youre not going to be 
 busy. Be prepared to face tens of enemies at the same time, even if they seem like they were freshly 
 pressed from a cookie cutter. The organic weapon shtick really gives the weapons a slick, otherworldly 
 feel, as if you were really holding a living thing in your hand. Its just too bad they act like 
 your standard guns.
  Prey is the story of a down on his luck Cherokee named Tommy, who wants to escape his reservation 
 and leave his heritage behind. Standing in the way of that is his girlfriend, Jen, who is proud 
 of her tribe and unwilling to leave. As they both seem to be from Oklahoma, one has to wonder if 
 the Cherokee in Oklahoma really feel bound to land that they were basically forced to go to at 
 the end of the Trail of Tears (any Cherokee gamers out there, feel free to enlighten me) . However, 
 there isnt much time for this to be contemplated before everything just goes crazy. An alien ship 
 rips off the roof of the bar Tommy and Jen are in before kidnapping them and their grandfather. 
 So starts the story of Prey. There are just enough twists and turns in the story to keep people 
 interested, even if the whole thing seems rather strange.
  The one thing that messes the story up is that theres no real urgency to the proceedings. Relatively 
 early in the game, Tommy gains the ability to spirit walk, allowing him to go outside of his 
 body to reach places where he cant get to normally, usually through a force field or a bridge 
 that is only accessible in the spirit realm. Along with this ability, he is able to death walk. 
 After he dies, his spirit is sent to what can be best described as a shooting gallery, where he 
 has 15 seconds to regain health and spirit by shooting at red or blue wraiths before he is dropped 
 back into the game, usually right where he died. This takes the basic need to survive right out 
 of the game, as youre basically in god mode the whole time.
  Even with this flaw, the games got some interesting design concepts. For one, there are the portals, 
 which will lead you to entirely different areas of the ship. Most of the time theyll open up before 
 you like a wormhole on a Star Trek episode, but sometimes youll notice a box that leads somewhere 
 entirely different.
  The other trick up Preys sleeve is the gravity. Youre not always on the floor. Sometimes youll 
 be walking up walls, sometimes even on the ceiling. This makes for what would have been incredible 
 battles in another game, where enemies are literally shooting at you from the ceiling, floor and 
 walls. There are even a few interesting puzzles involving wall walk panels.
  Its just a shame that these tricks arent used to make things seem a bit more nonlinear. Youre 
 never at a loss as to where to go, and the game feels more linear than it should be.
  Multiplayer is perhaps the most disappointing thing of all. There are only eight maps to choose 
 from, and only two game play types (deathmatch and team deathmatch) . While those eight maps are 
 pretty imaginative and make for some incredible cat and mouse game play  theyre certainly more 
 imaginative in using portals and wall walk than the single-player game  Theres simply not enough 
 there to keep you going for long.
  The long and the short of it is that Prey is a game that, while good, could have been so, so much 
 better. Lack of real challenge and linear design both conspire against interesting design concepts 
 and story to hold back what could have been one of the most awesome shooters since Half-Life 2. 
 This isnt the best way to honor the Cherokee.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fanax
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 17, 2006 9:54 am PT
Review:  I enjoyed every minute of it. Cool graphics. Nice music. Awesome voices. Just lil bit to easy. 
 Die... shoot birds again alive to easy. Just forget to use quick save and quick load button.
  Somethink interesting like Cherokee indian fights aliens with organic guns and spirit bow. One 
 bad think is my 'super' pc. got about 20fps with no enemies and 1-5fps when 3-* enemies. Hard to 
 shot with that low fps and i dont want to lower game graphics becouse then game looks like quake 
 II.
  That freakesome strong language makes game cooler.
  
  end game pic:
  http://img55. imageshack. us/img55/2460/untitledlm4. png
  
  Waiting for new episode !
  
  ~Fanax 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TimberWolf_CLT
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 17, 2006 9:25 am PT
Review:  I've played it through twice now and I must say that I think that it's worth every penny (although 
 I'd stay away from the metal-box version, the pewter figures are so-so) .
  
  I like the story line and knowing a little of the folk lore of the Cherokee, I found it intriguing 
 the way that they wove it into an FPS. I also love the portals and love using them for cover.
 
  
  As for the "could have done more" reviews, well you can say that about any game and I think that 
 those reviews are a bit over-critical.
  
  My only complaint (and it's the same for the other games) is the level loading. I can't wait for 
 the day when there's intelligent "load ahead" and we can just go from level to level without pause. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: L33tBudDha
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 17, 2006 7:17 am PT
Review:  The good:
  
  1) Gameplay - Prey gives the gamer a very interesting gaming environment. In just about every room 
 in the game you are able to walk on walls, the ceiling, or even walk on objects within a room that 
 have their own gravity. The game delivers crazy combat scenarios where you're firing at the bad 
 guys from under them, on top of them, or while standing on a wall to their right or left. All angles 
 apply in this game. Prey also gives your portals that the enemy appears out of and you can, if 
 you're fast enough, can enter and find some neat things. The gaming environment and the gameplay 
 are a blast.
  
  2) Art direction - The look and feel of Prey is very consistent through out the game. You get a 
 very organic environment once you reach the Sphere and it's very well done. I like the look and 
 feel of the environments and the character models. Everywhere you go in the Sphere you see walls 
 made of pulsating flesh or some sort of living environment mixed with technology. The large rooms 
 in the game feel large.
  
  3) Graphics - The Doom 3 engine is a good one though not the best one out there. Prey uses it very 
 well and although the game is never really scary it does give you that creepy vibe. The lighting 
 is good and the shadows are well done. If you play the game right you won't get all that close 
 to the enemy to see how detailed their faces are unless you make the effort on purpose. A solid 
 visual experience in Prey but not among the elite of todays FPS.
  
  4) Story - The way they combine Native Americans with an alien invasion is crazy but it works very 
 well. You get the role of all the characters in this game early on accept the main villain. The 
 roles play out well and the story keeps you interested the entire way through. In the end you learn 
 some interesting things about humanity and makes the entire plot come together.
  
  5) Sound - The sound in this game is good. I especially like the intro scene with the music in 
 the background while your world is falling apart around you. The sounds throughout the game were 
 well done. The soundtrack was not the most inspiring but it was passable.
  
  6) Boss battles - They were not the most difficult battles to be sure but they were enjoyable. 
 I especially enjoyed the one with the half beast half (won't mention it. don't want to spoil it) 
 that battle was hilarious.
  
  7) Performance - The game ran flawlessly on my high-end system. It should run very well on medium 
 machines at medium to high settings. I encountered no crashes and switching in and out of the game 
 into windows was hastle free. You can also play the game in window form without any issues.
  
  The bad:
  
  1) Choice - In the end of the game you are asked to make a choice between taking 
 over the Sphere and becoming immortal (or until you find your successor) or dying (thus engaging 
 in the final battle) . I think they should have given you the choice with two different endings. 
 They should have given you a spot to save your game before then and allowed you to try them both 
 out.
  
  2) Main Character - I got annoyed at how the main character continued to deny his heritage even 
 as the story progressed and he no longer could say that their faith was not true. He found out 
 first hand that all the old teachings were true and yet he stares his dead grandfather in the face 
 and says I don't believe in that crap? That got annoying real quick.
  
  3) Multiplayer - No capture the flag. This is a sin in the FPS gaming world. Only giving the user 
 death match or team death matches is a seriously value killer.
  
  4) Challenge - The game isn't very difficult and offers you only one level of difficulty at first. 
 To play the other you must beat the game on regular. I don't like this. Games are doing this more 
 and more to artificially generate replay value. This game doesn't offer you anything different 
 the second time through accept a more difficult challenge and that's just not worth the time.
 
  
  The ugly: I found no noticeable bugs during my play.
  
  Overall:
  
  Prey is a seriously nice FPS which will give gamers anywhere from 7 to 12 hours of single player 
 fun. Those who can enjoy the two styles of multiplayer maps will get a lot more out of this game 
 time wise. After playing Prey I want to call it a must play but at $49.99 I can't do that. $39.99 
 would be a better deal. Prey doesn't break any new ground but it is a very good FPS.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkstar4471
Rating: 5
Date: Jul 19, 2006 3:09 am PT
Review:  I awaited eagerly for it's release and after paying the demo I felt I was in for a wicked game. 
 I was wrong. Don't get me wrong, it uses the same engine as Doom III and Quake 4 so the graphics 
 are impressive but it just does not offer any real challenge. You'd have to be a very novice gamer 
 with literally no gaming skills or first person shoot 'em up experience to find this game hard.
 
  The storyline is interesting with the harvesting of humans as well as the cybernetic engineering 
 but did I not see this in Doom III & Quake?
  The weapons are interesting with nice combination as everyone has dual abilities. There are nice 
 touches with the portals which pop up. I particularly liked the portal that shrinks you to the 
 size of an ant. 
  The enemies are not hard at all. You can easily get past them with your rifle/sniper weapon. There 
 is a variety of them but the AI isn't very effective. The first boss you'll encounter looks like 
 the big guy on the cover of Doom III but it's not really much of a challenge. The final boss was 
 a walkover. The game was also very short. I finished the game very quickly in one sitting. I can't 
 remember the exact time it took as I uninstalled it after I'd finished. I had no desire whatsoever 
 playing the harder "Cherokee" level but I think I finished the game in under five hours or so maybe 
 a lot faster.
  My overall feeling was that of disappointment. I like a challenge in a game and there wasn't much 
 here with enemies and puzzles. There were some nice ideas like the other main part of the game 
 which was leaving your body armed with a bow, but I still felt not enough was put into this idea. 
 The only time you really needed to leave your body was to walk through force fields so the idea 
 of a bow was pretty useless. I may be pessimistic about this but I just got bored half way through 
 and that wasn't long into the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neutralx2
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 22, 2006 7:41 am PT
Review:  Those of you who followed the first person shooter genre back in 1998 probably vaguely remember 
 a game called Prey that was in development at 3D Realms. The game featured a Native American theme 
 and a unique portal technology that allows enemies to appear out of thin air among other things. 
 Then the game suddenly disappeared for years only to recently resurface. This new game, developed 
 by Human Head Studios, features many of the original ideas from 1998 as well as a state-of-the-art 
 graphics engine and fierce combat. The amount of hype surrounding the game when it was shown at 
 E3 was enormous. Luckily, Prey manages to deliver a solid and compelling first person shooter experience.
 
  
  Prey opens with the main character of the game, a Native American named Tommy, talking to himself 
 in a bathroom mirror. He wants to take his girlfriend and leave the Indian reservation. She on 
 the other hand doesnt want to leave. While trying to talk her into leaving, his girlfriend and 
 his grandfather are sucked up into an alien ship. Tommy manages to get free and then sets out to 
 rescue his girlfriend. Of course along the way he will end up saving the world.
  
  The plot in the game is actually pretty solid. The game starts out pretty intense and things rapidly 
 escalate and get pretty desperate. It also does a pretty good job of explaining why you of all 
 people are the one who has been chosen to save the world. While the Native American influences 
 are not a major part of the gameplay, it is an interesting and recurring theme in the storyline. 
 The last few levels in the game make up one of the most intense climaxes to any first person shooter 
 in recent memory. The ending also leaves you feeling pretty satisfied, which is a relief considering 
 many high profile games have had disappointing endings recently. The whole game will take most 
 people between 8 to 12 hours.
  
  Along with a compelling plot, the game features amazing visuals. The game is powered by the Doom 
 3 engine (which also powered Quake 4) . So the game features completely real-time lighting and shadowing 
 and interactive GUI surfaces (control panels) like those found in Doom 3 and Quake 4. The engine 
 has also been modified to provide other great looking effects like light bloom. The environments 
 themselves are very detailed and are constantly animating. You really get the feeling that you 
 are in a living spaceship.
  
  In a way, Prey has fallen victim of its own hype. The biggest complaint that most will have with 
 the game is of its use of portals, gravity manipulation and spirit walking. Many were expecting 
 some revolutionary new gameplay mechanics because of these three things. Unfortunately their use 
 doesnt do anything to drastically change the way first person shooters are played. But even though 
 the game comes pretty short of revolutionary, the portals and gravity manipulation keeps the 
 game pretty fresh throughout, which is more then what other first person shooters offer these days. 
 So while it doesnt reinvent the first person shooter, those gameplay innovations keep it from 
 tasting stale.
  
  The portals serve a couple of purposes. First, they allow you to move from one 3d environment to 
 another seamlessly. Second, portals provide an interesting and fresh way for enemies to enter the 
 environment. For example, sometimes enemies will portal in and be walking on the ceiling. 
  
  Perhaps more interesting then the portal system is what the game does with gravity. In the 
 game you will find glowing walkways that allow you to walk up walls and even completely upside 
 down. Even more interesting is that sometimes you will walk around a corner and gravity will completely 
 change directions. There are also times when you will walk through rooms you have already been 
 in but you will be on what was previously the wall or the ceiling. This keeps the battles interesting 
 as you will be shooting down at enemies that look like they are on the ceiling, but they are really 
 on the floor. Also, in some rooms you will have the ability to change gravity by shooting wall 
 panels. The portals and gravity are constantly used in combination for some fun (though not very 
 difficult) puzzles.
  
  Tommy, because of his Native American heritage, also has the ability to leave his body and spirit 
 walk. While in spirit form you can do things that you normally wouldnt be able to do. For example 
 you can walk through force fields and sometimes over large gaps that would have been impossible 
 to jump. Unfortunately, most of these sequences boil down to walking through a force field and 
 hitting a switch on the other side to turn it off. There are a few puzzles in the game when you 
 have to leave your body someplace and then use your spirit to move you somewhere you normally would 
 not be able to go. However, these types of puzzles are few and far between and dont pose much 
 of a challenge. Though you can fight enemies while in spirit form, which can be helpful when you 
 are low on health.
  
  Since you have this spirit walk ability, when you die you are sent to the spirit realm. The spirit 
 realm is basically a small mini-game where you must shoot down red and blue wraiths which recharge 
 your health and spirit energy. After a short amount of time you are sucked back into the living 
 world pretty much exactly where you died. The amount of spirit energy and health you have depends 
 on how well you did in the mini-game. While this is pretty unique and interesting, it has the unfortunate 
 negative effect of making the game pretty easy. You never have to worry about saving since you 
 in essence cant die. Perhaps it would have been better if you could actually fail at the mini-game.
 
  
  Prey has a pretty good selection of weapons. While your arsenal is actually pretty small, weapons 
 have secondary functions. Some of the weapons are alien versions of familiar weapons while others 
 are pretty unique. One of the weapons must be powered up at stations. How the weapon behaves depends 
 on what type of station you powered it up at. 
  
  The enemy designs in the game are pretty good overall. While there are not a ton of different looking 
 enemy types, they all require different strategies to defeat. The AI in the game wont win any 
 awards, but it does a good job of keeping the firefights intense and fun.
  
  The audio in the game is pretty good. The voice acting is of pretty high quality. Unlike other 
 games like Doom 3 or Half-Life 2, the main character in the game speaks a lot. The music score 
 in the game, which is done by Jeremy Soule, is also pretty good. The only somewhat disappointing 
 aspect of the sound design is the weapons themselves. While they dont sound bad by any means, 
 they somewhat lack the punch that you would expect.
  
  In the end, a lot of what you will get out of Prey depends on what you go in expecting. If you 
 expect to find a revolutionary experience you will be disappointed. But if you go in with reasonable 
 expectations, you will find a sold first person shooter with some interesting gameplay innovations 
 that keep the game fresh and makes it stand out compared to other first person shooters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Redjack443
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 17, 2006 1:50 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: Most of it is standard shooter fare, but they did a good job on the portals, gravity 
 switches, spirit-walking and wall-walk pads. Unfortunately the A. I. isn' t that great, as the enemies 
 just stay on the spot instead of really trying to chase you.
  The biggest complaint is that the game is way too short.
  
  Graphics: It looks good, not anything 
 special, but good. I do like all the distortion effects next to portals and on some forcefields. 
 One complaint is that the human characters look rather weird.
  
  Sound: First: Yay, Judas Priest!
  I like the sound of the guns, because it's different from the 
 standard guns. The ambient music isn't that special.
  
  Replay: You can replay it again on the harder difficulty, but that's it. Online freaks will like 
 the multiplayer maps.
  
  Overall: It's a solid FPS, with a few innovative elements. It's just too bad it's so short. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zyxahn
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 17, 2006 12:40 am PT
Review:  It's a good FPS. You run around and shoot as your supposed to in a shooter. Just like music. The 
 only thing that makes them different is the personality and experiences of the writer. Same here. 
 The game play is about as good as it's going to get. You don't slide around or have a delay in 
 any of the moves you do. The story was cool I thought yeah some of it was predictable but no matter 
 what they would have done someone would say it was predictable. Music was ok I could have used 
 more though. The portals and walkways were really cool totally fit the story here. The spirit walk 
 was nice. Dieing thing made it easy but it did make for one thing that you never could put the 
 controller down. Boils down to fun are you having it or not? I did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Valkyrie_44
Rating: 6.2
Date: Jul 17, 2006 5:37 pm PT
Review:  Single player puts you in the place for supposedly a normal average going nowhere kind of guy. 
 Expect the guy to whine alot, almost to the point you would think it would almost be better off 
 to end it all for the poor idiot. Your adversaries almost make me laugh. With the lack of intelligence 
 I have been shown, it is hard to believe they were even capable of invading a cereal bowl let alone 
 some planet. The only thing that helped through this instance is I considered them no better than 
 the Pakleds in the Star Trek universe after that the game became a bit more palatable. 
  
  Overall, single player needs something new other than angst, and killing reatrded aliens. The unique 
 features like climbing the walls, only offer a slight departure from the monotony, you could probably 
 get the same effect by standing on your head. The ability to travle through gates, and out of body 
 experiences, ar e neat departures, but once more nothing really new. Especially when in multplayer 
 play the out of body experience will usually be more of a hinderance
  
  Multiplayer, this one really didn't offer too much challenge after 5 minutes of play in a server 
 I was able to adapt and end up taking the high score. I wasn't pleased with the fact that there 
 werent really large arenas, and everything felt like it was just slapped together, and nothing 
 but gimicks. Multiplayer wasn't it strong suit , you would be more suited to stick with UT or other 
 large scale multplayer offerings because this doesn't offer any scale or "wow" factor.
  
  Grapihcally, its uses the Doom 3 engine good engine, but the problem is the environments are too 
 restrained, not even FEAR gave me this feeling.
  My PC didn't strain to run this game at max settings, if you can run Quake 4 with any reasonable 
 settings than you can run this game. 
  
  Overall, its reasonably bug free, but there is nothing really new. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arctan84
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jul 16, 2006 10:33 pm PT
Review:  Do yourself a favor and wait till this becomes half price, which it probably do very quickly. Like 
 many have said, it is extremely easy, as you cannot die. Annoying parts include the music that 
 plays in the background menu as well as the Native American chant music when you leave your body. 
 That hawk is extremely obnoxious as it shrieks all the time. The only thing that helps is to let 
 loose a few rounds into its ghost. Besides these negatives, it is an amusing game, but i don't 
 see any revolutionary parts to the game that warrent high ranking reviews. If your computer can 
 handle this, just go buy FarCry or FEAR instead if you haven't played them already. For how long 
 this game was in development, I can't be as enthusiastic as some have been. To each his own, and 
 the very best to those of you who enjoy it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vfx_fan
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jul 16, 2006 6:20 pm PT
Review:  Back in 1999, 3D Realms, the minds behind the "Duke Nukem" franchise, unveiled a new breed of shooter 
 involving you playing as a Native American who turns his back on his cultural beliefs, but soon 
 realizes that he needs to follow the old ways after aliens try to take over the earth. The game 
 would feature innovations never before seen in a first-person shooter.
  
  But, along with 3D Realms' other much-anticipated game, "Duke Nukem Forever," "Prey" was put on 
 hold for seven years. That was until 2K Games picked up the development and redesigned the game 
 from scratch using a heavily modified "Doom 3" engine.
  
  You play as Tommy, an explorer of Cherokee Indian descent agnostic about his spiritual heritage. 
 He soon learns that he will need to learn supernatural powers in order to save the world after 
 he and his girlfriend are beamed into a gigantic alien space ship. Learning the Cherokee ways from 
 his grandfather, Tommy must rescue his kidnapped girlfriend and (surprise, surprise!) save humanity 
 using supernatural powers.
  
  To the naked eye, "Prey" is a conventional shooter. There is absolutely nothing special about the 
 game's AI. The aliens you must battle prefer running toward you in the line of fire over running 
 for cover.
  
  The innovation comes in that Tommy can enable his spirit to leave his body to get places his physical 
 form cannot. But while this is an intriguing idea in theory, it doesn't live up to its potential 
 in this game, for the spirit walk is mostly for walking through forcefields and switching them 
 off from the other side or turning off turret defense systems without harming your physical self.
 
  
  The game has a unique twist in which you don't necessarily die, but your soul is carried off into 
 a demonic netherworld where you must battle demons to replenish your health. You are then left 
 off at the exact same spot at which you died. The problem with this is that, obviously, it makes 
 the game too easy.
  
  Luckily, that is more than made up for as you are required to solve a large amount of logic-based 
 puzzles to manuever through the space ship. "Prey" requires quite a bit of intuition during these 
 aspects and is quite challenging to the mind.
  
  The other unique innovation of "Prey" not seen in any other FPS games to date is gravity. You are 
 able to walk up walls and ceilings using gravity planks. This provides a bit of challenge as there 
 would be enemies shooting at you where you would not normally think of looking. Though this sort 
 of disorientation could also make some players nauseous. And such events in the game are quite 
 frequent.
  
  Perhaps the most mindblowing feature is the portals. While "Doom 3" emphasized cheap spawning tactics 
 for enemies to appear, "Prey" is the first game to get it right. The aliens you fight spawn using 
 portals that open up in mid air. Luckily, you can use portals like these, too. And dare I say it, 
 these portals sometimes lead to some mind-boggling places. For example, one portal lead me into 
 a tiny rock in a display case, where I stared in awe at a massive monster looking in the tiny case 
 I was in.
  
  "Prey" is a game that stirs the imagination, and no doubt was there a great deal of imagination 
 poured into this game. The game is breathtakingly beautiful and makes fantastic use of two-year-old 
 technology. It's one of those games that emphasizes creativity before pushing technological limits.
 
  
  Unfortunately, the story was a bit lacking in that department. It sort of played like a Michael 
 Bay film in which you think it's over, but there's more. There were times when I was expecting 
 closure but was bogged down with what was seemingly endless. And the game became increasingly repetitious. 
 More monsters kept spawning and I quickly got bored. The game suddenly exchanged clever problem-solving 
 for mindless shooting.
  
  But with all that said, I can't help but admire the game's uniqueness. In many ways, "Prey" is 
 truly a gem that stands out among the crowd, and there will probably be nothing like it again. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kdawg2005
Rating: 6.4
Date: Jul 16, 2006 4:05 pm PT
Review:  GAMEPLAY
  To most people, the actual gameplay of Prey seems to be the biggest letdown of this FPS, and after 
 playing it, I must agree. A lot of the concepts that seemed to make Prey a winning product before 
 it was released have now been revealed to be gimmicks to attract attention. The portals seem intriguing 
 at first, but aren't put to much good use throughout the game. Prey is so linear that portals might 
 as well be an open door in a hallway -- it truly wouldn't make a difference. The other concept that 
 makes Prey unique is the way a room's gravitation changes. This concept is also very cool at first, 
 but the dev.'s seemed to use it throughout Prey's gameplay "just because they could," and it never 
 seemed to be integrated into cool puzzles or fights (it just became a repetitive nuisance during 
 the game, in my opinion) . Speaking of puzzles, they barely exist in this game. The only puzzle 
 you ever get is hitting the "spirit walk" button to deactivate forcefields. Overall, Prey's gameplay 
 turns out to be pretty easy, since Tommy's "spirit walk" brings him right back to where you left 
 off if you die (yup, that means no matter how difficult a section it is, you'll just keep coming 
 back until all the baddies are dead) . You have the typical weapons, too, even though they are disguised 
 as much more interesting equipment. The multiplayer in this game is exactly what you would expect, 
 and it's gimmicks don't save it from being almost identical to all the other shooters' multiplay 
 out there. All in all, Prey differs from other FPS's very little (think Doom 3, except with less 
 scares and more enemies fighting you at once) .
  GRAPHICS
  Prey looks rather decent as a whole, but the problem is that there isn't a lot to see in this game. 
 There's a few nice-looking hi-res textures, but after 30 minutes of gameplay you've seen all the 
 dark, slimy rooms that the game has to offer. In all honesty, the game feels like you've gone through 
 the same corridor 50 to a 100 times by the time you finish it.
  SOUND
  The sound aspects of Prey are pretty good, but not spectacular in any way. The game features good 
 voice acting, okay explosion and gun effects, and forgettable but acceptable music.
  VALUE
  This is the other pitfall of Prey. The game only lasts about 6-8 hours (I finished it in just over 
 6) , and even in that short amount of play time, it STILL seems repetitive near the end. The reason 
 I've only played the game for about 10 hours is because the game doesn't have anything compelling 
 enough to make you want to continue playing it. If they had put more thought into the level design 
 (using the portals and gravitation in more creative ways) , they could have almost doubled the playtime 
 and it would have been much more entertaining throughout. 
  OVERALL
  Prey's gameplay ends up being entirely bland, with great concepts that are grossly underused. The 
 sound is decent but forgettable, the graphics are fairly pretty, but it all ends too quickly.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tionik06
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 16, 2006 3:41 pm PT
Review:  This is a treasure floating amongst turds in an ocean of FPS stink. How could anyone not see this? 
 It is just plain amazing for an FPS. The voice acting is great and they even got Art Bell the radio 
 host in the game! I am Navajo and I think the native american setting is great. The native american 
 inspired music is powerful. On the main menu the orchestrated song starts off with battle cries 
 and really sets the mood. The level design is so very creative and like i think a real ship would 
 be. You sometimes have to go out on an extreme chance to get to the next area but its actually 
 the way you were supposed to go, really cool. The guns are awesome and organic. When i first saw 
 all the gravity and portal videos on previews i thought it would be some cheap excuse to frame 
 a lame story around, but, when playing the game these tricks are used ingeniously and the story 
 is very good. The engine is great too, it looks great and goes very fast.
  
  100 times better than doom 3 and quake 4. Very impressive and innovative! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rotiv415
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 16, 2006 2:10 pm PT
Review:  I love this game. the graphics are great, and the story is very well played out with wonderfull 
 voice acting. the guns in the game all move aas if there alive, the rocket luncher thing has these 
 live crab-like things inside, these crabs alone are what you use as granades and shoot out of the 
 rockt louncher . The walls of the ship you are in are all moving and alive, some are like veins 
 in your arm carrying blood to .. somewhere. Te only problefor me, well it wasnt really a problem 
 but a new feature that might throw people to think the game is short. When you die you dont nesseserelly 
 die so to speak, u go to a spirit realm where you shoot raiths to gain health and spirit energy 
 for about 30 seconds untill you are sucked back to the living world, from there you start were 
 you left off fresh and with a clean bill of health. this couses the game to be both easy , incredebly 
 easy, and short, but not incredebly short. The multiplayer is very funa and fast, wallwalks and 
 portals make for creative ways to kill your enemy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NFSDJ01
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 16, 2006 8:56 am PT
Review:  The game was great I thought it was easy on both settings and the game to me seem short but it 
 was a fun game not really much of a challege but it was fun for me something play the multiprey 
 could have been a lot better from my point of view. It made me wanna play it. I have played it 
 twice now and I noticed stuff my second time playing it then my first time playing. The story line 
 was great. Good characters. Great graphics. I like the guns they were pretty good and usefull. 
 I liked the wallwalk or gravity walk that was something new and useful 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1valiantknight
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 16, 2006 1:59 am PT
Review:  Prey from begining to end is one hell of a ride, just try not to get vertigo. 
  
  The Graphics: Nice and shiney. The character models while not the best ever seen have style and 
 personality. The ship you'll spend most of the game on ( the sphere) is a character it'self. Much 
 of the ship is biomechanical and seems to be alive, much like the later levels in Doom3. The guns 
 looks gross. . .and great. The level design is skillfully laid out and done so in a way that truly 
 makes the huge ship seem like a small planet. Every inch of the game is packed with detail so it's 
 all fun to look at. 
  
  The sound: Loud and clear. From the sounds of the ship to the blasts of the guns to the excellent 
 voice acting it's all good. The game also sports some nice music to keep you in the mood. Not to 
 mention an original ending theme that's pretty catchy thanks to a band called After Midnight Project.
 
  
  Game play: This is where the game really shines. Prey allows you to explore it's world in ways 
 you just don't get to in other first person shooters. When's the last time you walked up the wall 
 onto the ceiling, shot up at some bad guys on the ground, then jumped through a portal and flipped 
 head over heals cause gravity's different in the next room? Probably not sense you played the demo. 
 It's because of these new ideas that are implemented so well that the game feels, fresh and fun, 
 or alien, from start to finish. Another facet of the game play is the ability to spirit walk, good 
 thing your a Cherokee, otherwise killing these aliens would just be impossible. Spirit walking 
 allows Tommy to walk through force feilds and is good for being sneaky, it also allows you to get 
 to places via special spirit walk ways. So between wall walking, spirit walking, and messing with 
 the gravity there are some fun puzzles to solve. None of them should take you more than a couple 
 minutes though. Also you never really die, well you do, but not really. No matter how many times 
 you fall to the alien threat you can always pick right back up where you fell thanks to a simple 
 death mini game. 
  
  The Story: The mixing of aliens and indians might not seem like an obvious choice, but it works 
 out nicely. The indian influences in the story is where Prey really stands out, other then that 
 though it's a pretty straight forward gotta kill the bad aliens story. The game despences knowledge 
 about the mini planet ship thingy, you'll spend most of the game on, as you go along. Learning 
 about the aliens, the sphere, and why they have come to earth is pretty interesting. This knowledge 
 is gained through alien computer terminals, radio transmissions (with Art Bell) , and talks between 
 Tommy and the alien presence known as The Mother.
  
  In the end Prey is a great game that could have been better, but then again what game couldn't 
 be better right. Yes people will say it was too short, but look at it this way, if it was a bad 
 game would people complain about it being too short? What I really want to stress is that it's 
 a lot of FUN. A melding of down to earth and out of this world fun that's sweet while it lasts. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bhamack
Rating: 5.3
Date: Jul 15, 2006 10:06 pm PT
Review:  if you're looking for a quick 1-2 hour fix of shooting aliens with sick weapons and nice graphics 
 without having to worry about dieing and starting over, this is for you.
  
  This game is compeltely ruined by the fact that there are no check points, and if you die, you 
 just go shoot some birds and come back to life exactly where you left off. If you are fighting 
 a boss villain when you die and come back, the enemy still has the amount of damage taken off that 
 you inflicted before you died. This means there is no real need to impose strategy in attacks, 
 you just run out guns blazing and shoot everything, if you die who cares, doesnt matter.
  
  Ending was also very rushed, you spend 6 hours going through repetative levels, then in a matter 
 of 20 minutes there are about 5 plot twists and some major events.
  
  In conclusion, if they didnt have the stupid "doesnt matter if you die" setitng, along with spreading 
 out the plot twists through out the game instead of just piling them all at the end, this game 
 could easily be a 9.5, but as it is, i have to give it a 5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shuiken_Blade
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 15, 2006 8:45 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: 8
  
  Gameplay is cool except the run-and-gun part can be to easy and boring. Awesome and unique ideas 
 like portals and walking on walls; the two coolest parts of the game! Also the story is amazing. 
 For the best experience, listen to the radio news casts that are playing on the mothership. You'll 
 see why!!!
  
  Graphices: 10
  They're cool. Can't say anymore!!!
  
  Sound: 10
  
  Everything is amazing in the sound department. Great voice acting and weapon sounds!
  
  Value: 
 6
  
  I felt that it wasnt worth it to pay $60 to get a game that you can beat in a few hours. Value 
 deserves a 6.
  
  My tilt: I highly recomend that you rent this game. It's definetaly worth trying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bennoble4
Rating: 4.8
Date: Jul 15, 2006 4:33 pm PT
Review:  This is simply not a 50 game. The graphics are alright, if you like the Doom 3 engine. However 
 the battles at the beginning and middle of the game offer very little if any type of challenge. 
 Even towards the later parts of the game it gets a little more challenging but not nearly as much 
 as It should have been. And you can't die so this game is missing more than just a few basic FPS 
 elements. It is also far too linear. Puzzle solving takes all of a few seconds. This game, in all 
 honesty, Takes a few hours to finally get up to speed and then when it gets interesting, within 
 an hour it's over. Should have been priced a little lower. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zeeeg
Rating: 5
Date: Jul 15, 2006 4:27 pm PT
Review:  I really wanted to like Prey. When I first heard about the portals and the wall walking I imagined 
 some pretty crazy gameplay that could mess with your head in a fun way. Instead, we get this. Portals 
 and gravity are very rarely used in cool situations and they don't make the game play different 
 from any other FPS out there.
  
  Now, that's not a big deal on it's own. Most games don't have portals and wall-walking so if the 
 rest of the game is good then who cares, right? Except the rest of the game stinks. Every area 
 in the game looks the same, nothing is connected or designed in any logical way. It feels like 
 someone designed one room, then threw it in some randomizing machine until they got 20 or 30 slightly 
 different rooms, then connected them all with hallways and portals and called it a game.
  
  The rest of the game is not as terrible as the level design. The core shooting action gameplay 
 is average. Some of the weapons are inventive and fun to use. The last hour or two of the game 
 had a pretty good flow to it, I was having enough fun by the end to ignore the bad design choices.
 
  
  Of course, the end came pretty quickly. I completed the game in approximately 8 hours, and I generally 
 take longer than most people to complete games (although in Prey's case I was moving pretty quick 
 since the levels all looked and played alike there was no reason to hang around) . And in addition 
 to being short, the game is very easy. When you "die" you just go into the "spirit world" and shoot 
 blue and red flying creatures for about 15 seconds then you're put back in the exact same position 
 like nothing happened. Pretty silly.
  
  Oh, and there's the spirit form which you occasionally have to go into to solve a puzzle. Not a 
 bad idea, except every "puzzle" is identical. Go into spirit form, walk through force field, push 
 a button, exit spirit form. Yeah I didn't get bored of that after the first 12 times.
  
  They could've had a lot of fun messing with the player's head in this game, instead we get an average 
 shooter with some poorly executed gimmicks thrown on top that takes place in an alien world designed 
 by idiots. Ugh.
  
  Oh yeah, I haven't spent much time in multiplayer, so I don't feel comfortable reviewing that. 
 But let's just say, I'm probably not going to spend any more time with it than I already have. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xtressbro
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jul 20, 2006 10:33 am PT
Review:  Wow. I bought this game for the cool weapons, portals, and wall-walking, but I found an already 
 delicious FPS cake under this icing. Slick and smooth, it plays out like and other FPS about aliens, 
 except in this one you get to be abducted. It's weird. One thing I also noticed instantly is that 
 the player character (Tommy) actually talks in FP mode. and he reacts to things you approach. For 
 example, in the opening minutes of the game, I walked up to a grimy, brown-streaked toilet and 
 Tommy put out his hand, saying 'ewww gross' (or something along those lines) . Everything mentioned 
 above blew my mind, especially the weapons and portals. Though gravity-defying puzzles are not 
 without their charms. A point deducted from sound for the dumb-sounding aliens and annoying tribal 
 music played constantly in 'spirit mode.' Oh yes. Spirit mode: Become your spirit self to see weird 
 things overlaying the physical world and shoot badies with your magic bow. And when you die, shoot 
 your bow at whispy things to regain health! That is a big feature and is important to the plot, 
 so I guess i should have mentioned it above. The multiplayer is survicable, and when played before 
 starting the single-player campaign, it gives you a glimpse of cool weapons to be acquired. I experienced 
 some lag occasionally, but I don't believe that was the fault of the game. No online multiplayer 
 is perfect. The environments and enemies of Prey are super cool, and there are some sweet boss 
 battles. Enemies include funky aliens, morphed humans, ghost children, weird centaur-beast things 
 merged with machinery... The list goes on! This is a total thrill ride. Check it out! Booyakasha, 
 I out! And I just leave hoping that its not 10 years for the sequel, which is revealed to be in 
 the making after the credits. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doom_nightmare
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 15, 2006 10:14 am PT
Review:  Pos: history, organic weapons, spirits-aliens-humans, ambient, excelent music, etc
  
  Neg: laggy multiplayer, requirements 
  
  One thing that i did like was the textures and sounds 
 from doom 3. Per example a monster that have a head of a zombi of doom 3, or some sounds from doom 
 3.
  
  In addition the history have pieces of the argument of the war of the worlds, the book of orson 
 welles (the human specie is only food for the aliens)
  
  I dont think that gamespot only gives 7.5 to prey, must be a mistake. Only look the player reviews 
 and the most of them gives 8-9.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chinbobbabobot
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 17, 2006 4:38 am PT
Review:  Prey, in case you didn't know, is a First Person Shooter set in the present day. The games' producers 
 tout it as an innovative game set to change FPS games forever. The features that allow it to claim 
 this are very interesting, but some are better than others. 
  Prey's storyline is fairly uniform, with a few discerning elements. Tommy, the game's protagonist, 
 is a former US Army mechanic. He's also of Cherokee descent, so he lives on the Cherokee reservation 
 in the Midwest USA. But, of course, he hates it there. He wants to move away, but his girlfriend 
 doesn't want to move. He thinks of his grandfather as just another spiritual nut, the kind that 
 banters about old religious mythos as if it were really true. 
  Of course, Tommy tries to convince his girlfriend to at least come with him for a few days. A couple 
 minutes and a bar fight with drunken rednecks later, the roof disappears and an alien ship hauls 
 everyone into itself. 
  From there, Tommy's only goal is to escape with his family. The game's plot takes some interesting 
 turns, and it makes for some good thinking, but it's none too complex. 
  Tommy starts off the same way every distraught hero-to-be starts off- with basically nothing. He's 
 got eight weapons to fight with, though you rarely use the wrench after you grab your first weapon. 
 From there, it's typical FPS fare.
  
  The difference with Prey, though, is that it uses several distinct twists to the gameplay to make 
 it more interesting. Portals are the first thing they tout, but the problem, like Gerstmann asserted, 
 is that they aren't used to maximum effect. The problem is linear level design. It's an awesome 
 special effect when they present it like a door instead of a glowing ring of space, but it's still 
 basically a doorway. In order to use it to better effect, it would be better to make a more non-linear 
 environment.
  Gravity walls are pretty cool since they change up the combat a bit. I think this feature reaches 
 better potential than the portals. Plus, it's neat to see a room from impossible angles. 
  Spirit walking is interesting, and it lets you accomplish some interesting puzzles. You have a 
 weapon in this mode, and it's great for sneaking up on enemies. Still, you won't be using it as 
 much as your typical arsenal of weapons. I think they could have made some more complex puzzles 
 with this and other elements combined together, but they didn't. 'Course, 3D Realms' last game 
 was Duke Nukem. What do you expect? Maybe they'll do it some other time if they get smart enough.
 
  Gravity changing produced unique puzzles, and I think it was implemented well. All in all, their 
 most vaunted features were the least used. 
  But with gravity manipulation and the exoskeleton suit, Human Head was allowed to make some crazy 
 ideas work. And they pay off- but the coolest stuff are the huge environmnents, like the asteroids 
 that you can walk on in the middle of a giant chasm. That's always cool. The scenic route is very 
 rewarding in that respect. But you'll be crawling around on the inside of the ship a lot more than 
 exploring the epic size of the Sphere. So, recapping, the gameplay is pretty standard, but the 
 unique elements are pretty good, save for the portals. They need to do something about that in 
 the next Prey game. (They explicitly say at the end that 'Prey will continue', but I'm not spoiling 
 anything by saying that since that's an announcement that probably woulda happened sometime in 
 the future anyway. If it sells well, anyhow.)
  
  On one hand, the story seems short. You find attachment to the characters, but it's not much. On 
 the other hand, if it were longer it would drive me insane since most of the time you're just trudging 
 through corridors. So it's a win-lose situation. Either way, one thing suffers for the sake of 
 something else. 
  
  The music is great. I really like the effort they put into the soundtrack with the epic scores 
 and dramatic music. Hearing "Don't Fear the Reaper" while you're being abducted is pretty cool 
 too. 'Course, you only get to hear these soundtracks in the beginning- though after you beat the 
 game you get a 'Casino Mode', so I guess you can go back and listen to the songs to your heart's 
 content. I haven't done it yet. 
  
  Of course, replayability is limited. There are some fun times to be had, and I personally don't 
 get tired of the FPS combat in any good game for a long time so I could probably play this again. 
 But it's a linear adventure so replayability is limited. Still, if there's some secret to unlock 
 by playing Cherokee mode, then I guess there's a good reason to go back.
  
  So, overall the game is very well done, if a little bit lacking. It's good for FPS fans, but it 
 could have been better in some respects. 'Course, that doesn't mean the game is a bad purchase. 
 If you're still iffy on it, wait a few months for a price drop. It'll definitely be worth it then. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aristonrr
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 14, 2006 10:51 pm PT
Review:  Rarely have I disagreed so strongly with a Gamespot review. Prey is so full of great ideas and 
 is so polished in its execution of these it's easy to overlook the care that went into making it.
 
  
  The Good: 
  + The game confronts you with riddles that mainly stem from the unique mechanics of the spirit 
 walk and the wall-walking capabilities in certain areas. These are always fun, never tedious, and 
 never slowed me down. 
  + I loved the story: Indian saves girlfriend and world on the side from horrid, but obviously campy 
 aliens - with a few ironic nods to genre colleagues such as Doom. I know some people are not capable 
 of understanding irony, but please don't take this story seriously, it's meant to be an ironic 
 take on typical shooter settings. 
  + The (frequently hilarious because totally overdone) voice-overs of Tommy made me realize once 
 again how annoying Gordon Freeman's perpetual silence is. 
  + I almost wept with joy when I got to board a glider for the first time in the game - took me 
 all the way back to the glory of Descent 1+2. Again, these episodes are integrated seamlessly and 
 are a blast to play. 
  + The graphics are absolutely astounding. Prey uses the Doom3 engine to it's fullest extent. Amazing 
 detail in all places (organic-metal fusion has never been done better imo) , wide-open areas, jaw-dropping 
 constructions and at times truly gross enemies that glisten wickedly in the glorious lighting effects... 
 wow. Don't ever say that graphics are not important in a game. 
  + At times I really felt that my brain was being twisted through the use of wall-walking and portals. 
 I have a well-developed sense of direction, but Prey managed to confuse me several times. I can't 
 second the opinion that the portals are "just another set of doors". That's like saying the gravity 
 gun in HL2 is "just another gun". If you get nauseous easily, you can place this point under "The 
 Ugly", because playing Prey will make you sick to oyur stomach.
  
  The Bad:
  + Developers lose track of the story at times. Two or three times I felt left alone, and was waiting 
 for something new to happen.
  + Weapons look, sound and feel weak. The alien design is great, but after playing FEAR, I expect 
 my weapons to make my hand feel like it's been through a workout even without an I-Feel mouse.
 
  + Levels are very linear. This doesn't have to be a drawback, but sometimes I felt like exploring 
 this convincing alien world, and found that I couldn't. 
  + The difficulty setting is a mess. Never trust a game that claims to adjust the difficulty to 
 your playing capability! Aside from the obvious problems entailed in programming so complex an 
 AI... why not just leave it to the player? 
  + Multiplayer seems like a tagged-on afterthought, which reduces the Value somewhat.
  
  The 
 Ugly: 
  Nothing here.
  
  To sum up: Prey is a shining example of how good an polished a game can be when its every aspect 
 is executed with care and an eye for detail. Kudos to HumanHead, and I hope they get to produce 
 Rune 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JaMMiE_D
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 14, 2006 4:09 pm PT
Review:  Lest start by saying that this is an unmissable game. I have literally just finished the single 
 player, and it was simply fantastic all the way though. Every level was distinct and individual, 
 probably due to the inspiriring techniques of getting from A to B.
  The start of the game is rather clever. Your are looking at a mirror. Funny thing is, you will 
 be walking through very similar objects and trickery in a few moments. Then after the special-effect 
 saturated pub start as featured on the demo, you see Tommys environment change to the organic setting 
 that continues throughout.
  As for the rest of the game, it unfolds in a neat little package, not like something like Farenheit, 
 more like a simpler doom 3 storyline. All there, with little confusion. The gameplay has revolutionary 
 puzzles, which make the toddler-minded HL2's seem sub-humanly simple. They are not overly complicated, 
 but they can easilly confuse you at first. The puzzles can also use the physics system in a not 
 so cheesy way as used on previous games with similar engines. It all adds up to some very confusing 
 and clever gameplay.
  The music is another thing I need to mention. It easilly makes this as good as a movie, especially 
 at the later seens with the "changed" Jen, and the major fighting afterwards. It helps add some 
 decent emotion not seen in many other games, from the loss, to anger in one song.
  The only slight flaw that prey has, is the length of time it takes to complete. I did it in 6 hours, 
 with breaks in that, so wethin 5 hours, you will have saved the world. Unlikely, but then again, 
 thats the way all great games seem to be going nowerdays, like Cod2, HL2, FarCry etc. What ever 
 happened to the days when it took days to finish??? Ah well...
  As for the graphics, since it runs on the Doom 3 engine, you know its reliable, and damn good lookin'.
 
  As a final sentence, this game is really really good fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Noxsiem
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 14, 2006 2:08 pm PT
Review:  I have not completed the game therefore; technically, this review is only valid up until the Scarifies 
 level. I choose to write this review now, because I believe that I was played enough to give an 
 accurate evaluation. In short, Prey is an ambitious attempt to set itself apart from the juggle 
 of First Person Shooters, but its average gameplay and lack of immersion makes it fall short of 
 being a really good title. 
  
  Whats Hot:
  
  : : Decent Graphics and Special Effects  The game was built from the Doom 3 engine, so good use 
 of pixel shading technology to bring to life could and shiny metal surfaces and slimy alien skin 
 is expected.
  
  : : Good main character interaction  The character does not only react to his enemies but also 
 to his environment giving the game play a great accent.
  
  : : Great Alien Arsenal  The concepts behind the weapons in the game are very good and were well 
 implemented in my opinion.
  
  : : Great Environments and Gameplay Dynamics  Where Prey sets itself apart is its gameplay dynamics 
 implemented in the forms of alien technology that the character uses as he goes through the level. 
 They range from dynamically opening doors to anti-gravitational walkways.
  
  Whats Not: 
  
  : : Average Gameplay  With all the dynamics and space like environments, the 
 game feels pretty the same as any other FPS as you progress.
  
  : : Average Sound  Background orchestra and effects are crucial to producing an immersive game. 
 The sound and special effects are somewhat average and expected, where nothing really stands out.
 
  
  : : Bad Character Accents  In short, the only Indian that sounded anything close to a true Indian 
 is the main characters grandfather which you will learn about as you progress. Other than that 
 the main characters himself along with the aliens sound like Americans. This greatly reduces the 
 games level of immensity.
  
  : : Unoriginal Storyline  In short, the story feels like a cross between Pocahontas and War of 
 the Worlds. Aliens have abducted your Indian family along with the rest of the world and it is 
 up to you to save mankind.
  
  Overall, Prey places itself on the rental shelf, and its not a most have title.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: NiN1000
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 14, 2006 5:43 am PT
Review:  This is the first ego shooter in years that is innovative and great, for me it ist one of the greatest 
 games ever done it deserves some prices.
  The graphics are well done and u can see that they made it with love.
  everything looks special 
 and doesnt seem to be filled in to make a level.
  its an entire galaxy in one game!!! be prepared to play one great ego shooter"
  Sound seems to 
 be fropm a movie its GREAT. so synch is ok but not great.
  you never thonk that his voice is overactink or some like that it seems righ in every situation. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: britneyyy
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jul 14, 2006 2:40 am PT
Review:  The game is awesome. You are Cheeroke indian who is abducted by alien ship together with yourgirlfriend.
 
  I dont like that main char lineage but i understand why it is (because of outstanding graphic 
 effects when you are in ghost shape when l4eave the body like indian "ghost of ancestors" belives
 
  I can't beelieve that all works fine on 6600gt with full details (well done develkopers)
  Great story and adrenaline running thru the body all the time.
  First time in games FPS industry, 
 you can walk on ship with special platforms on the side on top on bottom and fight enemies who 
 are also turned on all sides when they attack.
  Incredible feeling when you rotate in fight.
  Music very good , maybe little old for me , rock 
 from 1970-1980s.
  
  All in all Great Game with stunning graphic.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Scruto
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jul 14, 2006 2:35 am PT
Review:  This game, in my opinion, it's nothing than a fresh alternative to the other two games in the review's 
 title....
  Beautiful graphic (Enhanched Doom Engine) , nice gameplay, good weapons, but nothing prodigious...
 
  There are some enjoyable innovations like theSpirit mode", a migration of your soul out of 
 the body to do some actions otherwise impossible to do... Or the "Wall Walking" an unusual way to 
 explore the surrounding world upside down.
  The "Gravity Flipping" allow you to manipulate the gravity to complete tasks, and the "Death Walking" 
 allow you to turn back to life after a mini game in the afterworld.
  Other feature like "Dimensional portals" or the "Spiritual Hawk" that helps you during the game 
 are also nice traits.
  Enjoy it... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FellfromGrace
Rating: 5.2
Date: Jul 13, 2006 10:45 pm PT
Review:  I have to say I was originally very excited about this game. The whole premise or idea of it sounded 
 really cool. Once I down loaded the demo though all my optomism went right out the window.
  
  To start with the single player is just to easy. Gamespots review hit the nail on the head 
 there. Aside from that as Gamespot also said the weapons just in no way feel "fun" or "worthy" 
 to be a top knotch FPS. I would prefer the weapons in Duke Nukem 3d over these anyday. In short 
 if you are in this game for the story or single player, do yourself a favour and dont waste your 
 time. Go buy another game. Also, the little gimmicks with the cool portals that allow you to see 
 whats on the other side, all I have to say is "Who cares?!" Its cool the first 500 times you see 
 it but after that you realise its just drawing your attention away from how bad the single player 
 really is.
  
  Multiplayer wise the game gets an even worse score from me. Now I will say its not JUST b/c of 
 the game itself but b/c there are entirely better games out there to play if you just want Multiplayer 
 action. I realise alot of people dont Like Quake IV, BUT if your interested in Prey chances are 
 you were interested in Quake IV. Quake IV's weapons are so much more balanced out and the Multiplayer 
 is so much smoother than Prey's. One last note on the multiplayer that I personally cannot stand 
 (even though some of you might actually like) is the gravity beams. They are cool do not get me 
 wrong. But the problem is, most multiplayer levels have way, way to many of them scattered all 
 over the place. So in essence, with everyone everywhere it turns into a match of a bunch of people 
 inside a 3d cube. This totally ruins the experience. I'm sorry I jusy think its to much. You can 
 never totally appreciate the beauty or the greatness of any map b/c everything is everwhere. In 
 other words ye ole saying "to much of a good thing" rings 100% true here. Stay away.
  
  Graphics - They are good, I have to give that to the game. BUT they are only good in a "hardware" 
 way. The actual design of things seems alittle cheesy. For that I have to drop the graphics from 
 the 10 or 9 I would have given it to an 8
  
  Gameplay - I have to give gameplay a 5, that is kind of generous in my mind b/c there is nothing 
 in the gameplay I find enjoyable other then "spirit walking" but it is cool and it is fun so heres 
 to a 5 for that
  
  Sound - The sound is pretty decent. And for the awesome soundtrack at thr start of the game in 
 the bar I have to give this an 8
  
  Value - There is little to no value here unless your bored and just want something "new" to spend 
 a few days on. I give it a 3
  
  Reviewers Tilt - I was going to match up with value and give my tilt a 3 but I noticed that dropped 
 the games average to 4.9 which put it in the poor catagory. This game is by no means poor, its 
 just average run of the mill FPS. So anyway by raising my tilt to 4 it raised the total score for 
 Prey to a justifiable 5.2 MEDIOCRE 
::::::

::::::
UserName: furionpride
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 13, 2006 8:41 pm PT
Review:  Some people would agree with me, and some wouldnt but this game is something entirely new, and 
 it deserves more credit for the wounderful ideas that are brought out from it. Everything is done 
 very well in this game. The multiplayer is standard but I could care less because i'm not a multiplayer 
 guy. I have waited for this game for many years and it has not dissapointed me at all. The only 
 thing thats dissapointing is how underappreciated it is. In the reveiw, they say that the weopons 
 arnt interesting. HA!!! the guns in the game are fun are interesting to watch as they operate. 
 There's no clip amount to watch, no reloading to worry about, and pretty much the focus is entirely 
 on the floor, walls, and ceiling. There are times when you visit your grandfather in the land of 
 the ancients, and these times are great to get familier with the story and your own pace. The story 
 itself is very well done. I showed my grandparents one of the trailers and they asked "this is 
 a video game?" It really makes you want to see what happens next and in a way, it gives you the 
 emotions that Tommy is feeling. 
  
  This game is a huge success in my opinion, and I dont care what gamespot thinks. I keep telling 
 myself that........... : ( 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Causticspit
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 13, 2006 6:24 pm PT
Review:  So, I think this game was pretty good. I enjoyed the 1st time play through, and only found the 
 very last few boss battles tough, so I ended up putting on GOD mode for the very last battle, as 
 I was a little bored of the final boss by then.
  
  For me, the main rating has to be on the storyline, as the game play never matches up to playing 
 against a real person. So on a story basis this game was good, and I enjoyed the fact that Jen 
 and Tommy don't get the Hollywood-type "happily ever after" ending. 
  
  I gave the score as 7.9, which was a little more generous than the Game Spot one. However, I totally 
 agree with the review when comparing it to the other releases in the FPS genre.
  
  I noticed one BUG, which was a graphics one....
  
  The first time you visit the spirit world 
 / land of the ancestors place, the sky is bright blue when facing the sun, and then it will suddenly 
 jump to dark blue when you face the rock face and the spirit cave. This glitch was in the demo 
 as well. I know it's not my system, as everything else in the game runs perfectly, and I have a 
 decent ATI card. 
  
  Has anyone else encountered this bug? Or can anyone else reproduce it, but purposefully looking 
 at the sky during that place in the game? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darthpeter5
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 13, 2006 5:12 pm PT
Review:  Prey has a lot in common with Quake 4. It has cybernetic enemy's, the same fast paced corridor 
 shooting, and the same graphics engine. But despite it's initial appearance, this is no clone. 
 There's boatloads of gravity altering puzzles, innovative features like death walking and spirit 
 walking, not to mention an actual story with a main character that is neither literally nor figuratively 
 a robot. Quake 4 was not a bad game, but has some of what it lacks. Unfortunately, the game does 
 not fully harnass its potential, especially when it comes to open environments, and the game is 
 short and very linear. Still it's a good game, and worth picking up. I smell a sequel, and if it 
 expands the on it's premises and features, it just could knock the Halo franchise off it's pedestal. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gore-Infest
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 13, 2006 3:02 pm PT
Review:  Wow!! A 7.5!??!
  
  Thats nothing, this game deserves far more than a 7.5.
  
  I cant believe they call it average...
  
  Sure maybe at its core its just a FPS, but so is 
 every other game!
  
  I mean at its core, Halo was average, that got a 9.6.
  
  This game finally steps out of the box that most FPS are stuck in and makes it unique.
  
  Everything 
 about this game is unique, its teleportation system, its portals, all the level designs are done 
 brilliantly.
  
  Its story is very well done as well, and there are some neat little twists in it aswell.
  
 
  Its graphics are excellent, the Doom ingene has gone a ways, they arent the best but still VERY 
 good.
  The voice acting is very good, it helps you get immersed into the game's story even more because 
 of the very lifelike characters, and its just an all around fun game.
  
  I highly reccomend this game to anyone who loves FPS's
  
  -gi 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joeyhegarty
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 13, 2006 12:24 pm PT
Review:  I'm astounded by the average response Prey is receiving!!! Prey is probably the most innovative 
 FPS since Half-Life 2 (don't talk to me about Half-Life 2 Episode One. The first three chapters 
 of Half-Life 2 were much much better than all of Episode One!!!) . From a purely gameplay perspective, 
 Prey offers a number of elements that have never appeared in a FPS before -- Portals, Spirit Walking, 
 and Rotating Gravity.
  
  I will admit that Portals are more eye candy than anything else offering only a limited enhancement 
 to gameplay (imagine shooting through a unidirectional portal at an enemy who doesn't even realise 
 there's a portal beside them!!!) . But Spirit Walking and Rotating Gravity are extremely innovative!!! 
 Play deathmatch for half an hour and you'll see how different it is from everything else out there. 
 It's so much fun standing on a wall just above a door shooting at people as they enter, to see 
 them totally flip out not knowing where it's coming from!!! :) Or running around a level flipping 
 from wall to wall to wall. Although a little nauseating at first, you start felling like a fighter 
 pilot after 10 minutes.
  
  Prey also looks brilliant. The Doom 3 engine is still 1st class and is definitely the best engine 
 at rendering interiors scenes. Simply compare the difference is detail between the Citadel levels 
 in HL2 and the detailed organic look of the levels in Prey. Two features that are a bit dated are 
 the lack of support for HDR and the puppet like facial animation system, although these limitations 
 do not retract from the gameplay experience.
  
  Over all I think this game is one of the top releases of the summer and is compulsory buying for 
 any FPS fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: peepop
Rating: 1.5
Date: Jul 13, 2006 11:47 am PT
Review:  This is the most derivative, banal, hackneyed, trite excuse for a shooter I have seen in a very 
 long time. I though the AI was awful, level design stunningly poor, animations horrendous and the 
 weapons and sfx partiuclarly weak. VO's were so bad it was pathetic.
  
  On top of that the whole experience was about 5 hours long - although to be frank even that was 
 too long for this sorry excuse for a game. Stick to Doom 3 which looks better and although just 
 a corridor-fest was better than this.
  
  To top it all off the multiplayer was really weak as well. Justa small handful of maps and one 
 mode (no team-based is not a separate mode) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: toxicbill
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 13, 2006 11:37 am PT
Review:  This has to be the best PC game out there to date! The story line is a little weird, but it is 
 still the best PC game out there! The multiplayer is even better. If you loved Doom 3, then you 
 will also love Prey. If you can, get the Collectors Edition so you can get the Prey Art Book, and 
 little action figures :) So go out and buy this game right now! You will also think this game is 
 awsome, no matter who you are! If you could put a price on how good it is, then it would cost thousands 
 of dollers! The gun selection is awesome and ther creatures are very high detailed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shamarke
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 13, 2006 6:55 am PT
Review:  7.5?!
  
  However, the reason for this is because it is very, very linear. There is usually only one solution 
 to a puzzle and only one way to go. But for those who arent going to buy it because of the 7.5, 
 dont be put off by the score. There are plenty of neat suprises throughout the game- the gravity 
 flipping twist to the game is great, and the first time you see the sphere you will be in awe. 
 Prey has achieved a great atmosphere by giving the ship and the alien weapons a biomechanical feel. 
 The aliens are potrayed as cold and evil- the first time I saw a human getting mutilated for dissection 
 I was shocked. Kids get mutilated in the game, nothing Michael Jackson will approve of! Multiplayer 
 feels tacked on with only DM and TDM modes. Nothing revolutionary there, but the gravity flipping 
 in multiplayer makes it real fun. Although it is only fun on the first playthrough because of its 
 linearity, I highly recommend buying Prey. Play the demo. and chances are that if you like it, 
 you will enjoy the full game as well. I did. 
  TAKE THAT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nintendoAndrew
Rating: 2.2
Date: Jul 13, 2006 6:38 am PT
Review:  Its a game that like all Microsoft games have a graphics only approach. Yeah the graphics are great! 
 thier pretty good. But this game is at best a rent only game. Its not worth an Xbox 360, or Super 
 computer to get. Its just not worth it . You start out as an indian who hates his heritage and 
 wants to marry this girl who works in a bar. His grandpa always talks about Jibberish crap that 
 no one listens to or cares about. thats another thing. Grandpa, who dies later on thank god, tells 
 you about some stupid bird you had as a pet happens to be your spirit guide. When your physical 
 body dies you become your spirit which has just a Zelda ripoff of the bow and arrow. 
  
  My final words: Game's graphics are good. Everyting else is bad as hell. Don't buy the game. If 
 you like indians, space, and cheesy thoughts put together then this game is for you but otherwise 
 its just a waste of space and money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HAMODA
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 13, 2006 3:23 am PT
Review:  Prey a very immerersive shooter, great multyplayer (or the game calles it multiprey) and never 
 before seen in any shooter up to date. its rather gory, but it portrays an alien attack perfectly. 
 its graphics are perfectly portayed. its well thought of and movie worthy storyline makes it brilliant, 
 if the makers stick with the plan to come out with exelent updates a map editior and other good 
 community based content it will be a great and a popular shooter. however, its not for everyone!
 
  
  (THE GOOD) if u didnt like Quake 4 becouse its multyplayer sucked, or doom becouse it had even 
 worse multyplayer. Prey did it right, and its amaizing gamplay and graphics. it got an epic storyline. 
 and the puzzels take time making the up to 8 hour game to add an extra 2 to 3 hours.
  
  (THE BAD) if u didnt like what u saw happen to the people in quake 4 or what happened ur teamates 
 in doom 3, or if ur just plain weak stomached. u wont like it, trust me. its very grotesk. however 
 there are other problems
  becouse one of the strenghts are the weakneses. the problems take time and although its a three 
 day max game it takes time to get the puzzels right. the AI are cool and all but they lack the 
 ability to kill by themselves. they need teamates or else they cant kill.
  
  i have to say in comaparisin to the good up to date shooters like fear (The Most Demanding Game 
 i Have) and Half life 2 ( the halo 2 for the pc) this game takes the cake, i like it but u might 
 not, wait till updates and map editor and even the sdk. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: verdeGreen
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 12, 2006 11:21 pm PT
Review:  I sat down anxious to play Prey today and I beat it in one sitting although it took me some time. 
 Given that it becomes clear that Prey is pretty much a story driven single player FPS with a somewhat 
 lackluster multiplayer. It is slow at some parts but really shines in late game though unfortunately 
 a little bit late. The game is set in a completely 3d enviroment. The writer of the review for 
 the game called Prey a corridor craw. It does have its corridors but it also has a great 3d exploration 
 feel to it. Being able to gravity wall walk, flying around in a shuttle add some new flavor to 
 the old fps experience. The guns are a bit lack luster save a couple but it still delivers solid 
 game play. Graphically Prey is a treat with its many different areas and effects. Additionally 
 the portals around the game are very interesting and add some depth. Spirit walking is a bit tricky 
 to understand how to use correctly in combat but it is necessary to solve many of the games puzzles 
 which are abundant, challenging but not too frustrating. Boss fights are gimmick oriented in that 
 you have to figure out how to beat them instead of just hammering on them with your weapons. To 
 sum it up, Prey is fantastic visually, the developers have done wonders with the Doom 3 engine; 
 seeing terrain form in front of your eyes is stunning to say the least. If you're looking for a 
 fun story driven graphically beautiful FPS that contains both action and puzzles this is for you, 
 if you're primarily looking for multiplayer then you might want to look at Battlefield 2 or CS: 
 Source. I enjoyed playing this single player campaign which I cant say I have done recently with 
 the exception of Half Life 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raziel-Jcd
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 12, 2006 10:30 pm PT
Review:  SPOILERS - SPOILERSSPOILERS - SPOILERS - SPOILERS - SPOILERS - SPOILERS - SPOILERS - SPOILERS - 
 SPOILERS - SPOILERS - SPOILERS - SPOILERS - SPOILERS - SPOILERS - SPOILERS - SPOILERS - SPOILERS 
 - SPOILERS - SPOILERS - SPOILERS - SPOILERS - SPOILERS - SPOILERS - SPOILERS - SPOILERS - SPOILERS 
 - SPOILERS -
  
  Story
  
  Pros:
  
  1. A introduction to a great universe and story.
  2. Story is engaging and original.
  3. Very 
 disturbing story elements, no pointless objectives. (This games has some very disturbing images 
 and for once its not pointless)
  4. Almost everything is explained, why its happening, why its you, and what the stacks are.
  
 5. Has the potential of becoming a great series just like Half-Life
  
  Cons:
  
  1. I don't think this game/story is for everyone. The whole Native American story backbone wont 
 appeal to everyone, but trust me it fits in perfect and its VERY new.
  
  GFX:
  
  Pros:
  
  1. The organic things look a lot better then they did in Doom 3. You can clearly see 
 the upgrades made to the Doom 3 engine. Personally i think this engine is perfect for a organic/mechanical 
 architecture.
  2. The metal looks like metal, i didn't notice any plastic over it. For the most part.
  3. The 
 wall walk Platforms looked great, so did the portals.
  
  Neutral:
  
  1. Tho the game isn't NEARLY as dark as Doom 3, (you use your lighter maybe 2 times for about 5-10 
 secs each.) It still has this dim look to it. This isn't a bad thing just you cant enjoy the detail 
 put into most of the aliens. That and you never get close to them.
  
  Cons:
  
  1. Yes its the Doom 3 engine so it still suffers from its weaknesses, just not nearly as much as 
 Doom 3.
  
  Game play:
  
  Pros:
  
  1. The #1 thing going for Prey, GAMEPLAY! FUN FUN FUN FUN FUN!
  2. 100% original i mean you have 
 not played a game like this before. EVERY PUZZIL is 100% new i mean your going to be flipping walls, 
 while walking on the side trying to get to the top while being shot at from the right and bottom. 
 CRAZY!
  3. Wall walking and gravity flipping MAJOR points.
  4. Spirit walking very fun and keeps you tense. Don't leave your body at the wrong time or ELSE! 
 Plus your using this feature throughout the whole game while wall walking and gravity flipping. 
 It all just comes together seamlessly.
  5. A new way to play a game with a new way of battling and fighting.
  6. Quake 4 was terrible, 
 in my opinion all it had going for it where the bosses. They where huge and fun to fight, plus 
 somewhat challenging. Well this game makes Quake 4's bosses look like strawberries, this game has 
 some of the most fun and best Bose fights.
  7. Some really epic battles.
  8. Portal battles/puzzles, there is this one part of the game where its all these chambers, its 
 really a maze. Now your running around blasting these aliens away but its crazy because you see 
 yourself running on the other side of the map while your chasing a alien while seeing a alien chasing 
 you on the other side of the map while trying to not shoot yourself, or running from a nade while 
 you really are running towards it....... AHHHH MY HEAD!
  
  Neutral:
  
  1. You are immortal in this game, meaning you cant die. Basically you don't need to save once. 
 Every time your life reaches zero you go into this realm where you need to shoot these flying weird 
 birds. There are 2 kinds one for your spirit energy and one for your life. You have to shoot as 
 many as possible to regain life/energy then you go back exactly where you "Died" and all the enemies 
 are exactly where you left them with exactly the same life. It works out perfect with the story. 
 Plus it releases some tension.
  
  Cons:
  
  1. Again being immortal wont appeal to everyone and even tho you'll be entering the realm a lot, 
 you can imagine how many times you would have loaded if it wasn't for this feature. Makes the game 
 to easy if looked at in the wrong way.
  
  Weapons:
  
  Pros:
  
  1. All weapons are organic. They just look awesome!
  2. Somewhat original concepts. Its like 
 yes some of the guns work like in other games. Rockets, Chain gun, grenades, etc. But in this game 
 they work really weird, it just makes all of them feel different and new.
  3. There is this one gun, you get it very early in the game, think its the 2nd gun you get. Thing 
 is this guns ammo is what it absorbs. For example there are these stations and whatever you leach 
 is what your gun shoots. This is is the strongest but yet one of the weakest also. Nice idea and 
 it gets VERY useful at the end. Not to mention the strongest energy leach for it sounds and looks 
 AWSOME!
  4. Most guns feel and sound very powerful.
  
  Neutral:
  
  1. Some people will argue the weapons arent that original. I don't agree i think they are very 
 original.
  
  Length:
  
  Pros:
  
  1. Good length took me about 13-14 hours to beat, took 1 break because i had to.
  
  Level Design
 
  
  Pros:
  
  1. This game must have been a pain to make. I mean holy **** they have to think in 4 dimensions 
 to make this game. Top bottom left right, seamless portals all over the place, spite walking, wall 
 walking, gravity flipping! Completely mind blowing.
  2. Ironically beautiful world.
  
  A. I
  
  Neutral:
  
  1. It works for this game. AI isn't insanely good like in FEAR but that 
 isn't the focus. The AI is smart but not smart some guys stay back use cover some full out charge 
 you. Some look like they are dancing lol trust me it looks funny but very weird at the same time. 
 Some try to fly towards you but have this chaotic movement.
  
  Ending:
  
  Pros:
  
  1. Story really unfolds at the end.
  2. I thought the game was going to end about 4-5 times
 
  3. Check out what happens after the credits. OoOooooOooooo
  
  Neutral:
  
  1. Not as epic looking as FEARS or Half-Life's but it sure as hell holds its ground.
  
  Cons:
 
  
  1. Now we wait for Prey 2
  
  Music:
  
  Neutral:
  
  1. Nothing amazing, but it does its jobs. Mostly Native American music some other sounds etc. Does 
 it job all that matters.
  
  Description:
  
  This is a must have for any gamer. It brings a lot of new and does very little old. Extremely fun 
 and engaging story. Fair amount of horror, a lot of action, a lot of story, a lot of potential. 
 This is a mix of Science fiction, religious beliefs and drama/love story. Yes your saving the world, 
 yes your shooting aliens but its all different. Your doing it upside down or any direction. Your 
 flipping gravity and leaving your body behind. Your immortal and its fun! Everything is explained 
 nothing is left behind. Not to mention the puzzles, combat is fun but once you see some of the 
 architecture for the puzzles your going to be amazed. Simply put this is a rare breed of game and 
 it will be a shame if you miss it.
  
  Check out the ration on new and old in this game!
  
  New:
  
  1. Portals (The way they are used, the way the work, the way the effect game play 
 and level design.)
  2. Wall walking (No ladders in this game, BEARLY any stairs. Again effects level design like crazy 
 and adds a new level of game play while in battles or puzzles)
  3. Spirit walking (Once again effects game play and puzzles and level design)
  4. Gravity Flipping 
 (Yup you guessed it effects game play and puzzles oh ya and level design)
  5. Now all of those used a lone are new, now think about all put together, that's a completely 
 different ballgame!
  6. Story (Indian nature, background mixed with alien invasion, mixed with drama and horror.... Love 
 it.)
  
  Neutral:
  
  5. Weapons (I think they are new and most people i believe will agree)
  
  Old:
  
  1. Aliens 
 (OK yes but so is Half-Life.)
  2. Bosses (Big room epic battles, its old but they do it very good and its a blast to fight these 
 aliens.)
  
  6-2
  
  92% for my Final score and i cant wait for Prey 2!
  
  I know I'm missing some key points but ya if i remember ill edit.
  
  The vote has multiple 
 voting options.
  
  If you agree with my score/Review. Yes or No
  If your buying Prey 2. Yes or No, Maybe
  
  Screenshot Pack
  
  Screenshot Pack #1: http://files. filefront. com/Prey_Screenshot_Pack_1/;5246682;;/fileinfo. html
 
  Screenshot Pack #2: http://files. filefront. com/Prey_Screenshot_Pack_2_2/;5248664;;/fileinfo. html
 
  
  Screenshot Pack Details:
  
  Resolution: 1600x1200
  GFX: ALL MAX
  AA: 4x
  AF: 16x
  
  My previous Reviews:
  
  SiN: Emergence Episode 1: http://www. halflife2. net/forums/showthread. php? t=105725
 
  Half-Life 2 Episode 1: http://www. halflife2. net/forums/showthread. php? t=106871 
::::::

::::::
UserName: izzyjunior
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 12, 2006 9:04 pm PT
Review:  After downloading the Prey demo, I was very excited as I felt that we had a true gem in Prey. Fresh 
 gameplay with an immersive environment and a first five minutes that sucked you right in with the 
 characters.
  
  Then the inevitable happened. The game leaked.
  
  I am proud to say I didn't leap at the chance to get the game a week or so ahead of the release 
 date. But my friend did. And his doing so, and his completing of the game in seven in a half hours 
 got me worried. Did I really want to spend $50 on such a short game?
  
  So, I'm ashamed to say, I downloaded it myself. Ashamed though I may be, I'm glad. I know if I 
 had actually purchased this game, I would have felt ripped off.
  
  Let me start off by saying the game looks very good. I liked the Doom 3 engine, but I felt it was 
 underutilized in Doom 3 as everything was so dark. The atmosphere in Prey allows for a much more 
 interesting environment, one that immerses you like few other games can. Right at the beginning 
 you're treated to a very impressive abduction scene, and you watch, in first person, as your character 
 is dragged through the interior of the spaceship.
  
  I want to reiterate: the immersion is great. Shortly after your character is set free by a mysterious 
 helper, you come across a room where humans are being set up in front of a large device that gasses 
 them, impales them, then smashes them into nothingness. This gruesome display truly allows you 
 to feel the horror that the characters in the game must feel. This is what got me hooked in the 
 demo.
  
  Unfortunately, what you see in the demo is about all you need to see. The game features many teleporters, 
 and after playing through half the game you might begin to feel that these teleporters are basically 
 just doorways. I think the concept of the teleporters could have been expanded upon with, for example, 
 teleporter mazes. No such luck. There are a few cases where you have to teleport, in "spirit form" 
 (your character gains the ability to leave his body in spirit form, which helps you to solve most 
 of the game's puzzles) back to previously visited rooms to allow your character to advance further.
 
  
  Let's talk more about the game's puzzles. Most of the puzzles involve going into the spirit world 
 or gravity tricks. Prey plays tricks on you with changing gravities in two different ways: wall 
 walking, which takes place on specific pathways which allow you to walk up walls and across ceilings; 
 and green buttons that appear on the walls which, upon being shot, switch the gravitational pull 
 to the wall on which that button lay. So if you shoot a green button on the ceiling, suddenly, 
 the ceiling becomes the floor. While this sounds very neat (and at times, is very neat) it starts 
 to seem like gimmickry after awhile. Think about it. You're on an alien space ship which has technology 
 humans can't even fathom. You'd think they'd be practical, too, right? Yet a lot of these gravity 
 buttons and wall walking pathways seem like they're put in place merely to help create another 
 puzzle for you. Why build a gravity defying pathway along the wall and ceiling to get across a 
 gap, when you could just build a simple bridge? Maybe I just think too much.
  
  Fortunately, you'll want to get past these puzzles and the frustration they might cause quickly 
 as you'll be sucked into the game's story line. The storyline is probably Prey's best feature. 
 For much of the game, most of the story is developed via a womans voice that appears in your head 
 from time to time, and a radio station that the space ship picks up and broadcasts from certain 
 terminals. It wont be much at first, but it'll be enough to keep you wondering until everything 
 is revealed to you in the last hour or so of gameplay. Speaking of which, the length of the single 
 player game deserves mention to. Quite simply, it's short. On my first (and only) try through the 
 game, I was able to finish it in about six hours. As if that weren't bad enough, the challenge 
 is pretty much nonexistant. Sure, you'll die plenty of times, but in Prey when you die you're transfered 
 into a spirit realm where you shoot these flying batlike creatures to restore your health. After 
 about 15 seconds you're transferred back to the exact spot in which you died (or someplace nearby 
 if you died falling down a bottomless chasm, for example) . Even in the final encounter with the 
 head honcho of this spaceship, if you die you simply shoot some bats and come back to kick some 
 ass right where you left off. This makes the harder difficulty setting (which is only available 
 after finishing the game on normal mode) pointless.
  
  One shining aspect of Prey I want to mention is the sound. While the sound effects and speech are 
 anywhere from average to good, the musical scores which appear in certain points in the game are 
 some of the best I've heard in awhile. Admittedly, these great scores are rather few and far between, 
 they did help to heighten the mood of certain scenarios even further.
  
  Lastly, I come to the multiplayer aspect. There is absolutely nothing new, innovating, or exciting 
 about multiplayer in Prey. Prey only offers deathmatch and team deathmatch, and only 8 players 
 at a time. Even if more players were allowed, there are many games out there with much more entertaining 
 deathmatch.
  
  In the end, I'm glad I didn't buy this game. I would recommend you not buy it, either. Not for 
 $50, anyway. If you want to wait a few months when it drops down to $20 or so, then it might be 
 worth its money. Until then, just play the demo and keep telling yourself that you've already seen 
 most of what the game has to offer.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: moocowrat420
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 12, 2006 4:39 pm PT
Review:  This game rocks. No doubt about it. The levels are brilliant, the graphics are beautiful, the weapons 
 rock. BUT the artificial intelligence is lacking. This has so often been a sore spot for many FPS'es 
 that are released these days. The fact is, since Prey resorted to the same kind of "mindless alien 
 drones who don't know you've just thrown a grenade at their heads" that plagued Doom 3, people 
 will always compare the two. I see the description of "Doom on Drugs" and it's true. Had 3dRealms 
 chosen to implement more intelligent enemies, this could have EASILY distanced its inevitable association 
 with Doom 3, while giving people less to gripe about. Regardless of this, it's pretty freakin' 
 sweet to learn how to launch grenades up-side down and accurately. For this alone Prey is too sweet 
 to miss. Oh yeah, and 7.5 is malarkey. Come on Gamespot. I trusted you guys... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CosmicD
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 14, 2006 1:18 am PT
Review:  Actually, I don't really like dissecting a gaming experience in the standard sort of things, visuals, 
 audio, gameplay, presentation. Especially difficult is to only judge this game by it's visuals 
 alone and make it a sepparate subject. Ofcourse the doom engine makes them splendid but the visuals 
 in this game are more than just visuals, they are the reason why you are being sucked into the 
 prey adventure, even if that adventure is just walking around and disxovering elements of the story 
 that are told to you in a first person way and in real time.
  
  So the visuals have this organic deep and varied look (did I also say "mysterious"?) . Really, 
 the visuals elevate your experience beyond the slick graphic quality, because the design of the 
 environment that you roam trough is very unique, lush, metalic, dark, spacy, surreal.... 
  
  Don't you notice that if you are in the second level of this game it already has that surreal 
 thing going on all over the place ? I mean, those are the kind of levels you'd only see at the 
 very end of many other shooters and aventurous game. These creepy "yeah I am nearing the dangerous 
 endboss level" kind of themes. 
  
  Well in pray you have that feeling pretty much for the entirety of the game and at the end it just 
 becomes even more weird.
  
  With portals, upside down puzzle solving and ghost walking, you are never bored. SOmetimes I have 
 to think about the movie existenz when I hear the fleshy weapons and what comes out of it, it's 
 all very "bio". The exploring and puzzles are neat and always unexpected but not too hard. Some 
 complain that many games are too easy these days but I don't think this is the case. Ofcourse I'm 
 not a hardcore gamer but I always think highly of games when they let you interact in a real way, 
 and when it lets you be the central viewpoint of the story. Prey does that very well.
  
  MultiPrey could be "my multiplayer dm of choise". It's a bit slower than all those fast pace things 
 like q3 and ut and I just like the way it lets you explore all dimensions also. I'm not such a 
 good online player, but with multiprey I had an experience where I could say OMG, at least I end 
 up with an average score and not always end up at the bottom of the player list :p)
  
  The voice acting is also very well done. Using fresh and unknown voices that have quality is good. 
 I even think they have gone out of their way to choose for voices that really have that indian 
 sound going on. So it's typecasted very well.
  
  Now I've played out the game I can most certainly say that the story is very good. You know, some 
 people would argue that a story is only a good story when it's told out, and when you get to know 
 personal backgrounds by an elaborate model of written character build-up, associations with what 
 they like and don't like, what they've experienced in the past, the people they hang about with, 
 witted and slick oneliners in endless discussions and that sort of things. Well surely the story 
 of Prey is a bit abstract in that area but ofcourse you need to focus on the visuals, the brief 
 but frequent encounters with situations (either visual, audible or spoken) that drive the story 
 forward, and in that regard, I've actually never seen many games that give you such a raw and emotional 
 feeling when you progress trough the game. There's moments where I even started crying but I'm 
 not going to say when, you'll see that for yourself when you play the game.
  
  Surely there are plenty of games with aliens and spaceships but nothing so organic, involving and 
 gloomy like this one. This might as well be the benchmark abduction game franchise for me.
  
  The music and sound in the game are very good. You know they really have this thing going on 
 using virtual symphonic orchestra libraries to make about every recend soundtrack (think about 
 dreamfall, tomb raider legend etc) , sound like it is real, tangible with hollywood allures.
  Some of the weapons sound too much bloppy sometimes, but I guess thats just because of the nature 
 of about every weapon that you will pick up on that space station.. It's just giving me the feeling 
 of working in a meatstore, but thats part of this particular experience i think. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sloppyj100
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 12, 2006 3:03 pm PT
Review:  Ok, im just going to make this review short, quick, and to the point, the graphics are up there 
 as some of the best that I have seen yet on any console. The gameplay is very immersive, as it 
 brings in many new ideas such as spirit walking, regeneration, and gravity. The weapons are some 
 of the coolest, most imaginitive weapons that I have ever seen in a game and using them excites 
 you to the fullest. The only badd thing about all of this is that the single player mission is 
 only about 7-14 hrs long and the multiplayer just doesnt seem to suck you in as much as many other 
 games out there. After I was done with the game I found myself wanting to play it all over, but 
 I was soon bored of it after beating it the second time... so there isnt much left to do with this 
 game after playing it for 20 or so hours then just to sell it right back to eb games...
  
  If you could rent computer games, then I would definately say that its a must-rent, but since its 
 not, and its $50 to buy it now, id wait for the price to go down a little bit before buying.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: crial444
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 12, 2006 12:36 pm PT
Review:  I couldn't agree more with Gamespot review. It is way too linear game in which you are gonna have 
 to remember a pretty simple sequence: "door locked - look for button and enter spirit mode - open 
 door and make your way through next room".
  
  There is no challenge in this game, enemies are very easy to defeat , the IA is weak they usually 
 stand in front you so it is simple even to point your foes.
  There's no variety of enemies or weapons, basically they attack you in groups of 2 just like Doom 
 3 but in this case there is no creepy atmosphere, you can anticipate when they are going to appear.
 
  
  Sound is nothing surprising, dialogues are limited to certain phrases. Sound effects are well conceived 
 for this title and they are a pro.
  
  In terms of gameplay, the addiction of portals and "magnetic paths" does not influence very much, 
 in fact we've seen transport portals in many science fiction games. The paths are a way to camouflage 
 the maps and make them look bigger or complex but you will notice they are still quite straightforward.
 
  
  Multiplayer consists on classic deathmatch quake 3 style with better graphics. Usually you get 
 bored of it in less than 1 hr.
  
  All in all, if you have played the demo you have seen it all. Prey is not worth it. If you are 
 planning to get a game, there are better titles that offer more value . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghsacidman
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jul 12, 2006 11:45 am PT
Review:  What can be said about Prey... It's a good game and a solid FPS.
  
  Pros: The best thing about Prey is the setting. Your in a giant alien ship called "The Sphere", 
 which is a living breathing thing. Everywhere you look there are anus holes in walls that spit 
 what looks like diahrea and body parts (I'm guessing the people they murder are being fed to the 
 ship.... and that those holes are actually, yuck) . Anyway, this game is all about looking around 
 to me. There are screens everywhere that have alien messages on them that translate when you go 
 into spirit walk. They say things like "Remember, all of the protien is for mother". The graphics 
 are so good. There are these rooms with tubes of blood running through them that are incredible. 
 About now your saying .... what about the shooting. Well, mad violence is in full effect with Prey. 
 Tons of shooting, tons of blood, and some of the best gore sound effects I've heard in a long while. 
 I have a pair of surround sound headphones, and when you plug an alien you can hear the bullets 
 (or lasers, whatever) meeting flesh. The guns are interesting to look at with the whole organic 
 look.... but they could have just given me the first machine gun and grenades and I would have 
 never noticed. The first machine gun is such a nail driver I very rarely use any of the other weapons, 
 there is no need too with normal enemies. Prey got closer to getting grenades right.... but all 
 grenades are stupid since the halo series came out (see cons) . The portals and gravity switching 
 is really really cool. Other games have done similar things, Prey takes it too new levels. You 
 can flip a room a whole bunch of times just to find a portal in a box, then you fall through it 
 and the gravity is different on that side of the portal, so you can fall any direction from there. 
 Really disorienting, very cool. The presentation, effects, and shooting are all great.... but.........
 
  
  Cons: The biggest being that Prey rips off alot of "ideas" from other games/media. In the begining 
 when your watching your grandfather be slaughtered, you can tell the dudes over at human head have 
 played way too much Quake in the last few years. It's unoriginal in some aspects and totally original 
 in others... but when you see the story rip something off from another game for the first time, 
 the excitement of Prey takes a hit. The grenades are a great idea, but are uninspired and difficult 
 to use in a pinch. All FPS games should rip off COD2 and Halo for their grenades! It's mostly the 
 secondary function of the grenade that makes it hard to use in tight spots. SHOULDER BUTTONS ARE 
 FOR GRENADES PEOPLE!!! Another thing I don't like about the game is how mis represented the "cherokees" 
 are... but I'm not cherokee, noir native american, so it doesn't matter too much I guess. It's 
 too easy as well, with the hard difficulty only unlocked through playing it once through, bad idea 
 Human Head.
  
  Bottom Line: I hope Prey 2 fixes this game's small problems. With it's little problems fixed, with 
 more originality thrown in the mix, Prey 2 could easily be a true Halo killer.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DogOfDeath
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 12, 2006 6:44 am PT
Review:  Despite the linear design, Prey is a great First Person Shooter. The level design is some of the 
 best I've seen in a while, and the immersion of Bio-Mechanical landscaping makes really makes me 
 feel I'm in an alien world. Then again, the alien weaponry kind of does that too. The game is a 
 little short, but it's quite a ride, especially some of the fire fights Ive been in, when fighting 
 enemies on all 4 aspects of a room.
  The portal system is a neat little gimmick in the game, allowing enemies to pop out of no where 
 on walls and ceilings. Some portals don't even show up unless you walk through others, and you 
 might just show up on another aspect of the same room (from floor to wall) . The spirit walk is 
 a neat idea, but Prey lacks to use it to it's utmost effectiveness. Most of the time you just use 
 it to walk through a specific wall, and push a button the other side so your body can walk by. 
 Its proven effective for myself from time to time, where I would ambush a couple enemies, and shoot 
 them point blank in the head for a one-shot kill with my bow. The death effect in the game however, 
 is a hit-or-miss attempt, depending on the player you are. If you are like me, and might run through 
 a shooter and use the Quick-Save option just as often as crouch, then it can prove as a useful 
 substitute. However, it lacks the challenge, as dieing is really no consequence. If you die, you 
 appear in the "Spirit World", and shoot some wraiths with your bow to regain life to your body. 
 After about 15 seconds, your body returns to the real world, right where you died.
  The weapon designs are pretty creative, and the way you acquire certain weapons is clever. One 
 weapon is an automatic chain gun type gun, with a grenade launcher secondary fire option. You acquire 
 this mid boss fight, where you cut off the hand of your opponent, and eventually pick it up and 
 use it against him. Grenades are little crawler bugs you pickup throughout the game, and in the 
 process of throwing; you rip their little lets off (ah-la grenade pins) .
  The graphics in Prey are outstanding, and the living levels make it feel creepy, though the game 
 doesn't get too bad in the creepy department. The music is absolutely amazing, done by the same 
 guy who brought you the music in Guild Wars and Oblivion. The weapon sounds are nice, but don't 
 sound too alien oriented (machine gun type weapons still sound like machine guns) . Despite that 
 flaw, the sound helps the environment, by letting you hear the walls breathe, enemies walking around 
 the metal corridors, or opponents communicating with each other to take you down.
  Prey makes me feel like I'm fighting for something, sometimes. There are times where I would just 
 be running and gunning like a regular FPS, then reminded that I was trying to save my girlfriend, 
 who for some reason, still isn't dead, while almost every other captured human has been. The game 
 is a little short, and can be beaten on normal in 10-12 hours, depending on how fast you blow through 
 the game. After which, you unlock a harder difficulty, which I'm sure can slow the game down a 
 little bit for replay value. Despite a few flaws and oversights, the complex level design and clever 
 use of the environment makes Prey a solid First Person Shooter for those who like shooters for 
 the sake of shooters, without the intensiveness of others, like F. E. A. R. or Half-Life 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkomen3148
Rating: 5.9
Date: Jul 12, 2006 6:10 am PT
Review:  The FPS Genre has been beaten to the death and has quite frankly games like Prey have been done 
 too many times. It is pretty much playing Doom 3 with a twist.
  
  Everything is squished and crowded, no freedom, the same old super duper guns, same old HUD, same 
 old aliens, boring puzzles, and an annoying voice screaming "OH MY GOD WHAT IS THAT" every 5 minutes.
 
  
  It was like going back in time, playing Wolfenstein 3D or Doom 1 again. Except this time it had 
 better graphics. 10-20 years and we are still stuck in the same place? It's like eating the same 
 ice-cream over and over again, you get sick of it after awhile.
  
  The story is really uninspired. Another alien invasion, but this time your an indian with special 
 ancestral powers! It gets old quickly. Save your girlfriend, save the universe, etc, etc. 
  
  Graphics and sound are just fine. Nothing to go crazy about though.
  
  Overall the hype 
 is not true and this is just another addition to a genre that should be changing by now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jev55_basic
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 12, 2006 5:00 am PT
Review:  Maybe I'm the only person in the gaming community who feels this way, but I loved Prey just because 
 of the simple gameplay and mechanics that it offers. What ever happened to the 'shooting' aspect 
 of FPS? I don't want to sneak around a level or have to hunt for a damn key for 30 minutes, I want 
 to KILL THINGS! Prey fills this role very well and has awesome graphics and awesome sound to boot. 
 Playing in HD is just incredible, there was diffently a 'WOW' factor at the graphics. I also think 
 the sound does a nice job of immersing you into the gameply and the hints of human life all throughout 
 the ship make this one creepy game. I especially liked being sucked into the alien ship with "Don't 
 Fear the Reaper" playing in the background, and some really creepy situations involving 10 year 
 old ghosts that want mutilate you. Overall I'd say this game is diffently worth playing and WAY 
 better than the X360 version of Quake 4 or even Perfect Dark. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: niek04
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jul 12, 2006 3:06 am PT
Review:  Great graphics, unique gameplay and fun online modes. This is the FPS of the summer 2006. This 
 game is pretty much the best FPS of the summer 2006. The 'play with gravity' stuff is unique and 
 has actually never been a part of the gameplay in a game. Prey runs on the Doom 3 Engine but it 
 looks 10 times better then Doom 3. Human Head did a great job to get the maximum of this engine 
 and the graphics are pretty much astonishing. The story is a little casual but in the end of the 
 game things happen which you'll never expect. The multiplayer mode is very good. Very fast gameplay 
 and there are also gravity switches and wall walks in the multiplayer mode which makes it very 
 fun too play. 
  This game is definitly worth your money. What are you still reading this?? GO TO THE VIDEOGAMESTORE 
 AND BUY THE GAME!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blue_Tomato
Rating: 5
Date: Jul 12, 2006 2:02 am PT
Review:  Running on the Doom 3 engine, and it looks exactly like Doom 3 in fact. It seems like that engine 
 can handle only one type of visual design: Narrow, dark, bumpmapped alien-type scenarios. So, the 
 game left me with a feeling of having seen it all before, althought the graphics is nice.
  
  They try to be innovative, but the things they add does not add anything of real value. Portals 
 and special gravity altering pathways allowing you to walk up the walls and in the ceiling just 
 makes it harder to find your way around.
  
  My biggest criticism to the game is the limitation it puts on your freedom. You always bump into 
 something, and can hardly breathe as you walk around in the super narrow passages. It feels like 
 you have no freedom to move around at all, just walk back and forth along 3D tunnels. 
  
  I am very tired of these closed FPSes, after all I play a game to get some freedom to do things 
 I cannot do in the real world. If i want to feel claustrophobic, I can just enter my closet and 
 shut the door. Give me Far Cry, GTA or Mercenaries. Not this outdated piece of game design junk...
 
  
  The Indian folklore setting was interesting, but does not really add much to the game either. Other 
 games has mastered the new game elements it brings, like out of body spirit walking, better.
  
  It all feels a bit flat and boring. During the in-game movie sqeuences, I was just half sleeping 
 while waiting for the game to finally get on with it. Sometimes I just left the comuter for a snack 
 or something just to avoid these boring moments, like an advertisement during your TV viewing. 
 In the end, I jsut shut down the game and did something else, and I rarely stop playng before I 
 completed most big titles.
  
  Sorry, but the FPS genre is just too hard worn, and if they cannot come up with something better, 
 then dont bother. It's not a bad game, but it is just another FPS game. There are too many out 
 there already, and this is just another deja-vu. I have better games of this type in my collection 
 already, I see no reason why I should play this and not my old games over again.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: IceDemolisher
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 15, 2006 10:08 am PT
Review:  7.5 is harsh. However, the reason for this is because it is very, very linear. There is usually 
 only one solution to a puzzle and only one linear path. But for those who arent going to buy it 
 because of the 7.5, dont be put off by the score. There are plenty of neat suprises throughout 
 the game- the gravity flipping twist to the game is great, and the first time you see the sphere 
 you will be in awe. Prey has achieved a great atmosphere by giving the ship and the alien weapons 
 a biomechanical feel. The aliens are potrayed as cold and evil- the first time I saw a human getting 
 mutilated for dissection I was shocked. Kids get mutilated in the game, nothing Michael Jackson 
 will approve of! One irritating thing about Singleplayer is that if any enemies manage to kill 
 you, your character will be sent into this arena where he will fight with spirits to regain health. 
 Because of this, you cant really die in the game and it detracts from the experience. Sadly, the 
 portals work better in Multiplayer than in Singleplayer. However, Multiplayer itself feels tacked 
 on with only DM and TDM modes. The net code is only above average. Nothing revolutionary here, 
 but the gravity flipping and the portals in multiplayer makes it real fun. Prey plays like a movie- 
 in the way that its linear and highly cinematic. Play the demo. and chances are that if you like 
 it, you will enjoy the full game as well. I did. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChromeBallz
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 12, 2006 1:44 am PT
Review:  I played the demo, and was awed by what the game could offer - portals and gravity changes being 
 the most important things there. However, it already becomes apparent in the second half of the 
 demo that these things won't really be used to any real effect.
  
  At this time, i have yet to finish the game, however, that does not excuse the drearyness you have 
 to experience sometimes in the first few hours. It really is mostly just a straight up run and 
 gun style game, nothing more, nothing less - puzzles are ridiculously easy, and i'm struggling 
 whether puzzles can actually be called that, since they might aswell have been called "annoyances", 
 since they do nothing but slow you down a little bit.
  
  Despite all the fanfare about the new features Prey offers, like said portals and gravity play, 
 are all wasted on the already mentioned drearyness of the actual gameplay. Most of the time it's 
 pretty predictable aswell, too predictable in fact.
  
  See that wallwalk path? You can bet your life on at least 1 enemy portalling in on that path in 
 front of you, always. 
  See that wallwalk path that you have to enable? You can bet your life on it that an enemy will 
 portal in and disable it at least once before you can move on.
  See that forcefield? You can bet your life you have to go spiritwalk and flick the switch that's 
 just on the other side. of it.
  Flipping gravity? It's just there for you to make a path of - there won't be any enemies untill 
 the end of that sequence.
  
  They have the technology, but make everything which involves it ridiculously easy. It's so much 
 wasted potential - the 'new' gameplay they advocate is just a gimmick on the side, at it's core, 
 they just made another corridor shooter with some enemies in it that you have to shoot down. Shoot 
 your enemies, shoot them again, shoot the next enemies....
  
  They should have gone for more interesting puzzles involving gravity and portals, aswell as offer 
 some more non-linearity. As the GS reviewer mentioned, portals might aswell have been doors. Why 
 not offer several ways around a level through different portals, or other ways out? Why block the 
 portals that enemies spawn through constantly and not let players pass, even if it's just to see 
 where they lead? Maybe even give them the ability to make portals themselves.
  
  Then the gravity - there was the potential for truly Escher-esque levels in there, and truly 3-dimensional 
 mazes. Instead of making really mindbending enigmas, they simply listened to health and safety 
 and made the game safe to play for epileptic people, as it were... Too safe, in fact. I'm not insulting 
 anyone here, i'm just trying to make a point.
  
  The game does offer some "WOW!"-moments, like the first time you get into that little glass case, 
 or some of the scenes in the very beginning when you enter the sphere. But those moments are very, 
 very rare.
  
  Last but not least - the look and feel of the game. As i said before, the developers did not cash 
 in on the new gameplay technologies they implemented. Now, all Prey feels like is Doom 3/Quake 
 4 with some new gimmicks, and whatever way you want to twist it, it's not a good thing.
  
  So much potential, so much wasted... 
  
  Don't get me wrong. It's a decent game, it has few 
 real flaws, the problem is, it could have been so much more than just 'decent'. Lets hope the mod 
 community will make some more interesting changes to how the game works than Human Head has.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xcelerate
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 19, 2006 10:33 pm PT
Review:  To get the simple stuff aside: Graphics are great, sound is great (and I don't have a top of the 
 line system) .
  
  Quick storyline:
  You are a disgruntled young Cherokee man, looking for more adventure outside the reservation. However, 
 aliens begin "harvesting" humans from the planet for food. You're job is to get to the bottom of 
 this and stop them, while trying to save your girlfriend, Jen.
  
  The main draws about Prey is the altering of gravity, combined with walking on walls, and the creative 
 use of portals and reality distortions. All these things are combined into various fun puzzles 
 as you fight your way through the enemy spaceship. It's pretty neat to run through a portals and 
 see yourself running. There are some hallways late into the game where spatial reality is distorted, 
 so if you shoot down one hallway, you'll actually see your bullets down an intersecting hallway 
 in front of you. In terms of single player campaign, it's actually easy and straightforward with 
 puzzles intertwined with combat. It's short and takes only about 4-5 hours to get through, on the 
 easiest setting (very short for a $50 game) .
  
  You also have a spirit mode that you can toggle into and out of, which allows you to figure out 
 puzzles (and fight, though limitedly with a spirit bow) . Essentially, you can't "die" because you 
 return to the spirit realm where you destroy some evil spirits to get your life and spirit back. 
 You then return to where you originally "died" and continue.
  
  Although the weapons look unique, they are similar to weapons of other games (minigun/sniper weapon, 
 machine gun-type weapon with grenade launcher, rocket launcher, etc etc) . The only unique weapon 
 is the fire/shock/ice weapon, which allows you to alternate among them when you find the right 
 ammo charger.
  
  Multiplayer is pretty fun with the whole gravity, walking on walls, and spirit mode things. It 
 adds a new twist to multiplayer, as it's fun to run aruond and shoot opponents on the ceiling, 
 on the walls, or through various portals. I see a lot of potential in terms of mapmaking and mods. 
 However, there are only two modes: deathmatch and team deathmatch. They should've added some more, 
 such as capture the flag, which would be interesting with the gravity and wall changes.
  
  Overall, Prey gets a bonus for innovation. Altering gravity, walking on walls, the various puzzles 
 combining the two and other things are all fresh things in a generic FPS world. The main drawbacks 
 are that the single-player campaign is way too short (four to five hours) , and weapons are fairly 
 standard. Multiplayer is fun for a time, unless you get tired of DM and TDM. But other than that, 
 it's a unique, enjoyable experience. Good job to the developers for adding a fresh step in FPS 
 shooters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Suisfonia
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 11, 2006 11:07 pm PT
Review:  When someone said this game wasn't for the weak of heart they weren't kidding...
  
  The game's graphics are VERY impressive.. much better than what I've CURRENTLY seen in game's that 
 where released before it. While some of the idea's in the game have truly been used in other games 
 (Like Halo's sticky granade, only this time it's some... bug.. like thing...) others are unique
 
  
  Portal's are the main source of getting around in the game, kind of depressing that the AI isn't 
 smart enough to CLOSE those portals on you.. oh well that's the limit's of technology I guess
 
  
  The game has a very high fear factor. I mean I thought F-E-A-R (First Encounter Asault Recon) was 
 scary, this game actually take's the cake and spin's it around, LITERALLY
  
  Now, I don't like it when children are harmed as it get's my blood to boil. Well, there's a lot 
 of that in the first part of the game from what I've seen. So if you love children, or are a grade 
 school teacher, this isn't the game for you. Trust me some of the scene's will get you sick (or 
 give you a headache, like I have right now..) 
  
  But other than that, this game is worth getting. But again:
  
  not for the faint of heart, 
 weak of stomache, or if your a grade school teacher.... end of discussion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 00chaos8
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 11, 2007 11:18 am PT
Review:  Prey is a simplistic shooter, it can be easy for any hardcore gamer or casual. Not to mention, 
 prey's gameplay has a unique thing into it. I mean I don't know why the gamespot review is so bias 
 about the gameplay. Anyways goin through portals, walking on gravity tracks that make you walk 
 on walls, simple puzzles, great storyline, organic weapons, ugly aliens to kill and riding vehicles 
 is just plain awesome. I mean true it feels like your playing another quake 4 or doom 3 (if you 
 have played them) but prey is much more of a game than doom 3 and quake 4.
  
  Now the storyline is pretty decent. I mean it has a way better story than most FPS games. It just 
 funny though that your an native as a main character. Not very many games have a character as an 
 native. Although this main character doesn't sound like a native you would expect to be, he sounds 
 like a stubborn punk. But anyways its a good storyline that will keep you playing Prey.
  
  Now the multiplayer in Prey is pretty cool, I mean it has its usual deathmatches, teamdeath match, 
 etc. But they keep the unique things in the multiplayer like walking on tracks and all that gravity 
 crap. So you would have fun with multiplayer. Although some people would have lag problems with 
 the game.
  
  
  Prey is a game that isn't for everybody though. I mean some people will hate because GS says so, 
 or they just don't like the gameplay like doom 3's and quake 4's. But hey, its a sweet game. I 
 recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Acervartan
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 11, 2006 8:25 pm PT
Review:  A good quality shooter with few surprises but lots of great graphics and low frustration level. 
 Ammo is always available in large quantities; weapons are varied enough to given some options when 
 fighting. A small amount of puzzle solving is involved but is never beyond figuring out, yet remains 
 pretty creative at times. The story is solid and entertaining and keeps you playing to the end.
 
  
  The death system is actually quite refreshing and rather than punish players for dying (we are 
 just going to reload anyhow) it gives a quick simple way to get back into the action via a mini 
 game involving shooting spirits to recharge your health/magic before dropping you back into the 
 game.
  
  Voice acting is good and really helps create a great movie atmosphere. The Portal systems are cool 
 enough, though in the end they are just passage ways and not used that creatively. There are also 
 some pretty cool gravity tricks, that dont get to tedious and offer some variety in the shooting 
 and puzzle solving. It uses the Doom 3 engine and it shows but unlike Doom 3, they dont plunge 
 you into dark the whole time or make the entire experience one attempt after another to scare you 
 (though there are a few scares in there) . That said there are some pretty graphic scenes so expect 
 some gore.
  
  You can also switch into spirit mode to circumvent barriers and obstacles uncrossable in normal 
 mode. You can fight in this mode as well, but you rarely have to if ever, which is good as all 
 you have is a slow shooting bow.
  
  On the negative side, it VERY linear, you always seem to face the same pockets of enemies and they 
 are not all that different from each other, though they do look very good. Certain elements of 
 the plot disappear with no real explanation (such as a strange "Fear/The Ring" like girl/spirit 
 that crosses your path in the beginning) but the main plot moves solidly enough. Certain obstacles 
 definitely have a repetitive element to them such as navigating through alarm laser detectors and 
 the limited uses for the spirit mode.
  
  Overall a solid game that is just fun to play and watch unfold and ends well without leaving you 
 hanging (but also leaves room for a sequel) . There is very little to slow you down as you progress 
 so expect to finish extremely quickly (15-20 hours) . Recommended. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kev_Dawg
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 10, 2007 1:34 pm PT
Review:  The rating that Gamespot gave Prey is a bit low I must say, 7.5 for a game that is way better then 
 Quake 4 got a lower rating then the rating Quake 4 had. Prey deserves atleast a 9.0 or atleast 
 a 8.5, a 7.5 is just real bad. I hope Gamespot reviews the game once more and makes another decision 
 on the rating. If Gamespot says 7.5 is what the game is then I guess a 7.5 it is, but a 8.5 or 
 a 9.0 is what the game should of had.
  
  The game starts off with a introduction to the game story, you find out who you play as and you 
 find out what is happening. Detail and sound to the game is real good I must say, having the game 
 run on max is outstanding with beautiful visuals. The only downside to the game I must say is the 
 shortness, you can beat the game within 8-12 hours depends on the gammer. Multiplayer seems fun, 
 the demo showed off the multiplayer part of the game, people including myself found it real good, 
 I still find it real good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bupp
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jul 11, 2006 5:51 pm PT
Review:  One of the main reasons Prey is so disappointing is because it took ten years to develop. That's 
 ten years for hype to build up, then plummet, and then skyrocket. Alas, all this hype was simply 
 for a conventional shooter with some game mechanics that try to seem deep, but ultimately result 
 in a bit of a boring game. The three main game mechanics that seemed like they could change shooters 
 forever are not explored fully and as a result they become simple cheap thrills which don't provide 
 thrills for very long.
  
  I first caught wind of Prey about a year ago when that 11-minute gameplay video was released. It 
 was incredible. The graphics looked amazing and it seemed that the game would provide a unique 
 arsenal, unique enemies, and unique mechanics.
  
  When the demo was released, I immediately downloaded. At this point, the graphics were not nearly 
 as impressive, although they did still look quite good. However the gameplay did not deliver. And 
 the same is true for the game itself.
  
  The portal system which has been hyped constantly, is really much less interesting than it seems. 
 In the first few levels, the portals provide for an interesting experience, but they soon become 
 pretty-looking doors and nothing more.
  
  The ability to manipulate gravity is also much less interesting than it once seemed. Although this 
 system does provide for some cheap thrills at the beginning of the game, it soon becomes a simple 
 way of extending gametime. The puzzles which utilize the gravity-changing are extremely easy and 
 require little thought at all.
  
  The spirit walking ability is also not used in an interesting way. At first it is lots of fun to 
 look at your floating body and shoot arrows and pass through force fields. But this ability soon 
 becomes a simple tool for opening locked doors and such.
  
  Basically, all of the unique features of this game are not utilized in a creative way and the way 
 in which they are utilized is boring. It's a shame since these three features could've provided 
 for so much interesting gameplay.
  
  The basic shooting elements of Prey are all fine. The weapons look cool, but they're all fairly 
 standard weapons. This is a shame since they all look like unique alien killing machines.
  
  Prey has pretty good graphics. The environments look especially good because they have that 
 whole metal/organic look to them that's pretty neat. Prey's audio is decent. The music is fine, 
 although I don't like many of the licensed tracks. The guns sound pretty boring, compared to the 
 way they look. The voice acting by the main character is weak and at times he sounds like a whiny 
 crybaby that needs to STFU. Most of the other voice acting is fine.
  
  Prey doesn't have too much replay value even though it's a pretty short game. This is because Prey 
 is ridiculously easy. Death has no penalty since when the main character dies, he is transported 
 to some island or something where he has to kill a bunch of flying aliens and then he comes back 
 to life exactly where he died. This takes away pretty much any sort of challenge this game could 
 have presented.
  
  Prey's multiplayer is very standard. There are the normal Deathmatch and Team Deathmatch modes 
 and all of that sort of thing. None of the multiplayer modes are too creative and as a result the 
 multiplayer isn't all that interesting, although it is considerably more difficult than the single 
 player experience.
  
  Overall, Prey is a standard, incredibly easy shooter with pretty graphics and decent audio. The 
 unique gameplay elements that were so heavily hyped ultimately disappoint because none of them 
 are used as creatively as they could have been. It's strange that a game that took such a long 
 time to develop turned out so standard. It's a shame really. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CTPAHHIK
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 11, 2006 5:18 pm PT
Review:  Remember Pariah??? This came to mind after a few hours of playing. 
  
  Prey has somewhat original storyline and amazing special effects. At first it seems like there 
 is a lot coming after few minutes of the game. Sound and graphics do really good job of convening 
 depth of alien spaceship and technology behind it. Game has one of the most revolutionary environments 
 ever created. This part is simply amazing.
  However, game play brings everything down to its knees. After a while monsters become very predictable 
 and even their diversity and level of detail do not save the day. Weapons should have their separate 
 review being completely out of this world. Yet they act pretty much like other weapons in any action 
 game. 
  Overall, game is very original, creative, has stunning visuals and possesses extremely diverse 
 and rich content. Unfortunately, shooting and level design is relatively straightforward taking 
 a lot out of game play.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: skippysqueez123
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 11, 2006 4:40 pm PT
Review:  I liked this game because I havent seen this done before. I liked how the gravity would change 
 on you. The portals were different from any other game I have ever played. The physics are really 
 good because if you on the roof and you shoot at a guy they will fall down to the floorBut if 
 you wait a little while to look at the body they disappear like in Doom 3. The weapons looked very 
 cool because I have never seen anything like them before. And the graphics were pretty good too. 
 there are some vehicles in the game too.. which is a nice change of pace. the puzzles are pretty 
 challenging but i liked them... but that may just be me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WeaselBiggs
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jul 11, 2006 2:41 pm PT
Review:  I think GameSpots review was pretty honest. Ive been playing with the demo since it came out 
 and waiting for the official release with something like mild interest. I frankly expected more 
 from that much-hyped title, but its an interesting romp, even with its share of letdowns.
  
  The biggest disappointment was the fact that they didnt really try and use the Doom 3 engine 
 for something else than its signature oppressive lighting and plastic-ish textures. Also, the game 
 as a whole feels like Doom 3s midpoint, visually speaking, with sloshing and writhing animated 
 textures creeping out of or covering metal expanses. As was said in the official review, I got 
 a heavy sense of dj vu throughout my playing of the demo.
  
  Were left with the gameplay mechanics to cover. Now, I dont know if its my rig (I can only afford 
 to run the game on Medium detail and I still get some slowdowns from time to time) , but Tommy isnt 
 exactly the most nimble of the bunch. Im left with the impression that the Doom 3 marine was easier 
 to move about. Circle-strafing, dodging shots and all  that was easy with the marine. With Tommy, 
 I can barely strafe around an enemy, and thats WITHOUT a drop in my framerate.
  
  Aside from the magnetic tracks and gravity shifters, the design level is run-of-the-mill. The 
 game hearkens back to the early days of FPSes, when it was all about starting from Point A and 
 making it in one piece to Point B. Same as Doom 3, same as Quake 4. Overall, it felt like playing 
 a toned-down Doom 3, without the moans and groans and cheap boo-out-of-the-closet scares. Its 
 run-and-gun action wrapped in an aging package.
  
  The Cherokee gimmick quickly gets frustrating, as well. The one positive aspect is that it virtually 
 eliminates the need to go look for cheats. Once you earn the ability to feed off the dishonoured 
 dead in the Spirit Realm, death will just have you shrug, since its relatively easy to refuel 
 yourself. The rest lies in the games story, which is pretty vanilla. Angsty boy comes of age when 
 forced to confront greater odds and realizes the responsibility which weighs down on him, so on 
 and so forth. And why is it that aliens SYSTEMATICALLY need to be belligerent conquerors bent on 
 either feeding from us or from our planet?
  
  In a nutshell, its hardly the bomb weve been led to believe it is, but it does have a few charming 
 points. Id tell you to save it as a rental for your 360 or to wait for it to be plopped in the 
 PC bargain bin. Purchase isnt really necessary, unless youre a hardcore fan. And judging from 
 the reviews Ive read, some people here obviously are. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VirginFingers
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 11, 2006 11:59 am PT
Review:  Let me say right away that I am a big fan of the FPS genre, I am not some guy who never plays FPS's 
 and just wants to diss a game. I have played mostly all the recent FPS games, doom3, quake4, FEAR, 
 BF2, and of course CS-S.
  
  I watched the interview by gamespot, and the dev seemed to have alot of interesting ideas on how 
 to enhance this genre. Lately it's been better graphics, and physics, but other than those upgrades 
 it's been the same for a long time as far as multiplayer gameplay goes.
  
  I liked the idea of puzzles being common, and their ideas of spirit walk, and the way theyset up 
 player death, etc. BUT (and this is a game crushing but for me) the gameplay seemed very, very 
 clunky and not at all something I'd expect for a brand new game.
  
  Movement was delayed, aiming was a pain, it was hard to tell if you hit and also there was hardly 
 any depth of view, so trying to attack melee was a joke. My personal opinion, this game was a success 
 as far as trying to give an FPS player some new experiences, but the core gameplay is not at all 
 up to par.
  
  Other than gameplay, I was also annoyed at the main characters commentary on every thing he sees. 
 "Oh my god!" "What the hell is this place?"
  
  To me, it was very annoying, and ruined the submerssive effect. Things like that, and how long 
 scripted sequences where common, just got on my nerves. I also see people praising the fact this 
 game gives people a glimpse of native american culture, it doesn't. First of all, if you want to 
 learn more about these people, don't play a video game to find out how they ended up on reservations. 
 Read a book on their history before casinos. I am part indian on my mothers side, so I have some 
 credibility.
  
  In summary, this game has pros as far as new content for the player, but cons on core FPS gameplay. 
 It's your decision to buy this game or not, just take this advice into account. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: devang1987
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 11, 2006 8:55 am PT
Review:  People say its based on doom engine and so it cannot be better than doom. It does not matter. The 
 graphics are fantastic, there is not a single place where you get bored. It is easy meaning you 
 wont have to wait for loading times. And best of all is the variety. The settings are awesomely 
 cool. The way thigns are designed, its all great!
  
  Another nice thing is the Deathwalk, its fun to shoot those things and gain health. No loading 
 time at all. Probably that is the feature that adds to the easiness of the game. But again, its 
 something different.
  
  9 for sure! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jugg3rn4ut
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 11, 2006 7:32 am PT
Review:  This game is underappreciated for what it is supposed to offer, a great, thrilling "rollercoaster" 
 ride for mature audiences. Games are supposed to be fun. I play games to get my mind off the daily 
 routine. And when all is said and done, I can tell you something that the scores can't. Prey is 
 a fun game to play. I had a good time playing and at the end of the day, that's what is important. 
 To enjoy that time you spend on something. This game is solid, easy, but solid. It grabs you along 
 for the ride, one that I enjoyed thoroughly. I won't go into details about what could have been 
 better in the game or how it works -or should work-, Gamespot seems to have covered that part adequately, 
 all I'm gonna say as a gamer is that the majority of people who play this game will enjoy it deep 
 down, whether they want to admit it or not. So give it a shot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nerubian_Lord
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 11, 2006 2:54 am PT
Review:  When information about Prey being in development was posted, it was a big shock. No one actually 
 believed the game was going to be released, yet it managed to survive all those years. For the 
 development time it took Human Head Studios, I'd say the wait was worth it, even though this game 
 would not become a computer game legend. However, it does have some pretty good ideas to make a 
 fun and enjoyable experience, if not a bit repetitive. 
  
  In terms of graphics, Prey manages to deliver lots of cool environments, using the Doom 3 engine. 
 The lighting effects are very good, as are many of the characters in the game. The faces of Tommy's 
 grandfather and even his girlfriend look quite realistic and well-made. The monsters are detailed 
 and they really have that satisfying look, when you shoot them, or hit them, especially when you're 
 close to them. The environments, however, aren't all that varied, and you'll usually be in a closed 
 space. However, in the few places that you aren't, you'll see why this engine is so good. The sky 
 and the outer layer of the Sphere look fantastic, with a lot of detail and precision. The Earth 
 also looks spectacular, and the intro movie is clean and polished. Overall, the graphics are fantastic, 
 and they help to increase your enjoyment of the game. 
  
  Turning to game play, Prey manages to offer some unique new features, such as the wall walk pads, 
 or the platforms that you have to shoot to alter gravity. All these are very cool to look at, especially 
 when you can't find which way is up and which is down. The player would certainly find these new 
 techniques entertaining, even though that they are used primarily in the beginning to middle of 
 the game. However, Prey manages to use them in such a way that they never get boring or repetitive. 
 The game play itself is quite fun, and even though you'll be visiting the more or less same-looking 
 rooms, fighting the same enemies, you'll find that it never gets boring. Your arsenal of weapons 
 consists only of six weapons, but each of them has a secondary function, even though some are more 
 useful than others. The same elements bring you more and more excitement. Well, maybe you will 
 start to get bored in the last few levels of the game, but then Prey will throw a couple of plot 
 twists at you, even though they may seem a bit predictable.
  
  Sound was good. Voice acting was believable and well-delivered. The environmental sounds were all 
 varied and intense, adding to the action of the game. Monsters all had their unique sounds, as 
 well as English voices, and the end boss had a very distinct voice, that made her creepy and cool 
 at the same time. 
  
  Of course, the game also has a multiplayer mode which is still exciting and fun to play, after 
 you've exhausted the second single-player difficulty. Even though the game is very easy in normal 
 mode, Cherokee mode makes it a bit harder; however, it requires you to first pass the game in the 
 normal mode, which can be a bit tedious. Since you can't die, and instead you play a small shoot-the-dragon-creatures 
 game, this makes the game even easier. You are transported back to the normal world, with no progress 
 taken, and I've even been transported further into the level with this, bypassing some obstacles. 
 As a whole, value isn't really that great, unless you are a hardcore FPS fan.
  Prey is a very good game, it really is. It doesn't lack anything major, but the slightly repetitive 
 and very easy game play, and the not-so-great value are a bit tedious. However, this game is a 
 really great pick, and I recommend it to anyone, hardcore or beginner.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: glitzy69
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jul 10, 2006 9:33 pm PT
Review:  Prey isn't neccessarily a bad game. It takes some good aspects of certain games you've likely played 
 before and places manages to mingle them together successfully enough that you'll be interested. 
 Once you've played through though, it's much like a high-school sweetheart you dated for a week- 
 when you look back you see that yeah, it was fun for a little while, but you can move on without 
 any troubles in the back of your mind.
  
  Gameplay feels curiously like Quake 4, with fewer enemies and less danger. Graphically, they could 
 have lifted most, if not all of the textures of Doom 3 or Quake 4 and planted them within this 
 game. The untrained eye would likely not have noticed; you'll get a sense of Deja Vu stomping through 
 the corridors with your lighter (a 'flashlight', that makes a source of low flickering light at 
 your location until it overheats) . In other words, the graphics have a very familiar feel to them. 
 At one point, even your character mentions this in a joke -- "Wow, it's so dark in here. I'm DooMed." 
 The redeeming trait with them is that the graphics are used in some interesting and different ways, 
 and glass/forcefield effects seem to have had special attention. An interesting perk I discovered 
 is that the enemies can use the medkits strewn about if they are injured, and they do have an effect.
 
  
  Weapon wise, the primary rifle acts a great deal like Quake 4's rifle. The main fire mode is a 
 rapid fire shot that has little recoil. The secondary fire brings up a scope, which fires a more 
 powerful (but more ammo inefficient) shot. Sound familiar? The same can be said of the other weapons, 
 in that they feel like guns from other games. The 'auto-cannon' is a chaingun/grendade launcher, 
 and the acid sprayer acts suspiciously like the Flak Cannon of UT fame. The leech gun was a neat 
 idea that was not realized fully; different forms of energy result in different shots from the 
 gun. They might as well just have added the 3 other guns for the types of energy it used- one is 
 a red, burning energy which fires like any SMG, one is a Freeze energy which is simply a flamethrower 
 in reverse (the freezethrower from Duke Nukem fame) , and another is (again) UT's lightning gun.
 
  
  The Ai -- though it claims to be adaptive- is hardly a challenge. Simple peek-a-boo tactics you've 
 used in other games will work perfectly well here, if not better -- if on the off chance a grenade 
 does manage to get you, you won't die. You'll be put into a state of 'undeath,' much like what 
 you would see in the old adventure game Soul Reaver. After a few seconds of target practice on 
 the manta-ray like demons, you'll be back in the saddle, and depending on what amount you killed 
 of what color (blue mantas give you spirit energy for spirit walking, and red mantas will dictate 
 how much HP you revive with) you might actually be in a BETTER position than when you started. 
 This is true even of bottomless pits or in the event of your characters complete disintegration. 
 In the event that either of those unsavory events happens, you'll be put at the door to the room 
 as opposed to where your body fell, only all the enemies you killed in that room will already be 
 dead.
  
  Puzzles aren't difficult, either. Much of it involves the gravity switching. A lot of the enemies 
 tricks involve using the gravity as well; you will get used to these tricks by the second or third 
 time they happen. Shooting someone on the ceiling isn't a bad effect, but a lot more could have 
 been done with the gravity, and it's a shame it wasn't pushed further. Some neat puzzles involve 
 the portal tech; in one scene you encounter a 'hall of mirrors' effect. The plus side is it's cool; 
 the down side is that the portal in front of you puts you behind the enemies aiming to the corner 
 you are hiding behind, allow you to dispatch them without any problems (you're in such a position 
 that you can see them, and shoot them, but they cannot fire back as it's a one-way portal.) and 
 then just blaze through the area after about 10 seconds of getting your bearings.
  
  Multiprey (the name for multiplayer mode) is simplistic at best, and has been done better. The 
 game feels rather unbalanced toward specific weapons; the acid sprayer in particular is devastating, 
 as well as the 'rocket launcher'. The acid sprayer can kill in one or two shots at medium range, 
 and doesn't require much aim; it'll simply cover a ten to fifteen foot area with damaging pellets, 
 and fires quick enough to dispatch a freshly spawned player before they realize what's happening. 
 On the plus side you can spirit walk, and the arrows from your spirit bow are rather powerful. 
 It doesn't have much of a point though, and is more detrimental in most situations. Your body- 
 the thing that gives other players points- is stationary and unprotected, and in the middle of 
 a deathmatch that's an almost laughable mistake on the players part. Killing someone with the spirit 
 bow is akin to getting a kill with shock paddles as a medic, or a knife. It'll get a quick chuckle, 
 but is there more as a placeholder.
  
  The game is more like an open invitation to modders as opposed to a genre bending, mind-blowing 
 piece of video game history. It's like Turok stole Raziel's powers, and is fighting the Strogg 
 inside a giant space-ship that Serious Sam ran through once before. It's as if the developers were 
 trying to collect a great deal of aspects they enjoyed from other games, into something that could 
 be used in the future by other people. All in all it feels like a tech demo with a lot of content. 
 Though, one has to wonder -- if that really is the case, then what might the mod-making players 
 have in store? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dan360x
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 10, 2006 9:08 pm PT
Review:  ok let me make this short yet helpful
  
  RENT IT
  
  Ok single player is worth playing, yet very entertaining, but not long enough. With a rentals amount 
 of time you can complete the game. Many things are fun and new in single player like walking on 
 walls, but it isnt very surprizing. Gameplay is pretty good, puzzles can be somewhat frustrating, 
 and the graphics in this great are acualy pretty good
  
  Multiplayer isnt the best. Not worth playing on live too much, but it is very entertaining for 
 a while. Not to many modes to play online, thats what brings the value way down. After you finish 
 the game your done, play multiplayer, but wont last long.
  
  So definetly check this game out, but $60 isnt worth it. But, $7 for a week where you can finish 
 the game is definetly worth it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nappan
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 10, 2006 8:40 pm PT
Review:  Prey is a game that probably would have less harsh words said about it, if it hadn't been so grossly 
 overhyped. After all, Prey is not a bad FPS, but it's no revolution in the genre, and wouldn't 
 have been a year ago, or even two years ago. How this seems to have escaped all the "hands on" 
 reports is stunning. 
  
  Prey sold itself, and was sold by sites (including gamespot... really I read the "our preview and 
 our review people are different and serve different functions" bit, but this is sad. Huge links 
 to a live review of a... 7.5? please) as some kind of mysterious FPS killer. Ouch. This game reminds 
 me of nothing so much as Turok. Big, silly weapons that are no different from  
 but are supposed to be very VERY cutting edge because they look cool (which... they do) and have 
 different names. This is a old as the "plasma gun".
  
  As for powers like the much touted spirit walking, if you want a shooter with great powers, play 
 Psi-Ops. This is a real problem because with the familiar weapons, the VERY familiar gameplay, 
 the very VERY familiar pacing... well... the graphics wear pretty thin, pretty fast. They're pretty, 
 and they're creative, but if Doom 3 didn't prove that graphics alone won't get you a cupcake, nothing 
 will. 
  
  Amazingly, for an FPS, this game actually gets you thinking "why am I still playing?" about 5 or 
 so hours in. You just jump through some more portals, bypass shields, and blow things away from 
 that point on without alteration, so whereas you might have thrown your controller at the wall 
 at the end of Halo2... if you play Prey through to it's conclusion, you will probably wonder why 
 you did.
  
  That aside, it's a fully functional FPS with good graphics and passable sound, that would have 
 been amazing if it came out before games like Half Life 2, and Far Cry. This is no disaster, but 
 it's a lot like a budget shooter with the graphics of a full priced one. With so many FPS' out 
 there, and with multiplayer lending the best of them infinite replayability, newcomers to this 
 genre really do have a lot to prove. Sorry Prey. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FRoStYisGoD
Rating: 5.3
Date: Jul 10, 2006 8:47 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: The game is not that hard at all and although it seems cool with all the portals and 
 stuff (which it is) but after awhile u just get used to it and wonder how much more of these portlas 
 are there :P the game runs smooth with a half decent PC which is good to know but this game is 
 just your regualr shooter game just with portals
  
  Graphics: the Graphics are good and really sharp game looks good on both Xbox 360 and PC
  
 
  Sound: sound is well done and the music is ok 
  
  Value: if u like Quake 4 kinda Multi-player but not as good then Prey will last u awhile otherwise 
 the MP isn't all that great and sucks if u ask me nothing special and u move way to fast for this 
 game and it just doesn't seem right. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: karimbus
Rating: 5.3
Date: Jul 10, 2006 6:55 pm PT
Review:  This game has been long hyped and I was really looking forward to it. Unfortunately the game has 
 not come close to living up to the hype. The game is incredibly linear with weak AI. While the 
 game has some decent ideas to enhance the experience - primarily the wall walking, the game is 
 pretty basic and seems like a doom 3 clone that fails to take advantage of the innovation in meaningful 
 ways...
  
  The multiplayer is also very basic and while it also contains the wall walking it is really under-utilised. 
 Sorry, but games like FEAR need not fear Prey. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: malester
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 10, 2006 6:09 pm PT
Review:  I absolutely love this game. Prey falls into my top 3 favorite FPS along beside FEAR & HL2. Prey 
 offers everything a FPS should have, gore, action & cursing I guess it coulda used to nudity. The 
 gore: Nice mutation and cybernetic beings lots of blood, lots of twisted gross **** Weapons look 
 amazing, almost like they are alive. The action: You can walk on walls, ceilings, be teleported 
 onto a small rock, or to another location directly, all while fighting. you can be on the ceilings 
 shooting some1 on the ground and vice versa, you can fight inbetween the teleporters, non stop 
 action. Theres a decent story line and it leads to a part 2 if you watch after the credits. Multi 
 is fun as hell I hope the come out with a TF mod. Hope to see more games like this in the future. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BloodreaverSlut
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 10, 2006 3:06 pm PT
Review:  Prey
  
  Plot:
  You are a native american living with your girlfriend at a reservation. The only thing keeping 
 you on your feet is the fact that someday, your life will be better and meaningful. Until... 
 
  
  Graphics: 9
  why? Doom 3 polished up. The graphics are just simply amazing, though the physics are sometimes 
 a big awkward. The idea of the ship being totally organic is very well shown and you really feel 
 that the ship is alive. Several times the game just creeped me out.
  
  Sound: 7
  Eventhough the music sounds good, the guns are nice, the "alien" noises are good it still scores 
 a 7. why? The voices in the game are not that great, they sound... just not right, they dont respond 
 how they should do sometimes. The text also feels a lot like it's read of a piece of paper instead 
 with a little improvising to make it sound more believable. Also the amount of swearing in this 
 game is kinda unnecesary and couldve been left behind.
  
  Value: 7
  The game is not very lenghty and overall it's also pretty easy and after beating the game once, 
 i dont see myself going to do more stuff... cause there isnt any. No bonus stuff, no collectables, 
 etc.
  Though i havent played multiplayer YET, i still think it wont be that great because the gunplay 
 in the single player isnt all that.
  
  Gameplay: 9
  Prey has some very unique element in it, which makes this game awesome. Stuff like: portals, wall/ceiling 
 walk, gravity shifting and out-of-body-gameplay. With the portals, wall/ceiling walk, out-of-body-gameplay 
 and gravity shifting they made some really nice puzzles, but once you figured it out, the magic 
 is lost (your likely to run into more of those kind of problems) . The gunplay in this game isnt 
 all that. Every gun remains effective during the whole game, but 2 guns stand out for being crap: 
 the shotgun (spray gun) and the rocketlauncher, the feel really underpowered compared to the rest.
 
  
  To rap it:
  ok sounds, awesome graphics, awesome gameplay and decent value.
  i think this game deserves a lot of credit and therefore i give it a tilt of 9! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrOpinionated
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 10, 2006 10:33 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: Prey differentiates itself from other shooters by adding in some really cool elements. 
 There are portals which lead seemlessly into other areas. Walkways allow you go up walls and ceilings 
 where you'll often fight enemies from any direction. The weapons aren't FPS standard issue either, 
 besides the pipe-wrench. The 7 weapons you find in the alien sphere are bio-mechanical instruments 
 of destruction like an acid sparying shotgun-likee weapon or living exploding alien grenades. 
 
  It took me 6 hours to beat the single player game and i'll tell you this: there will be a sequel.
 
  
  Graphics: Prey uses the Doom 3 engine to it's full extent to create a bio-mechanical alien dyson's 
 sphere where organic alien flesh comingles with advanced alien technology. The characters are well 
 detailed, though some of them do look like action figures like Tommy's Grandfather. Your weapons 
 are mostly organic and glow in the dark. Don't worry about dark areas, you have a lighter on you 
 at all times unlike Doom 3 and most of Quake 4. 
  
  Sound: The sound is excellent. The voice acting is good, except for Tommy who I wish would shut 
 up when there is no one to talk to.
  
  Is Prey worth the wait? I'm definitley saying yes. This is the game to get this summer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: purplemidgets
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jul 10, 2006 9:41 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: The gameplay is weak. The portal system in the game is only used as a means to get to 
 a new area. Had they given you the ability to create your own portals, and se them against enemies... 
 it would have been great. Imagine having a firefight with some enemies, then marking a destination 
 point for a portal (behind the enemies) , then opening up the portal and shooting the baddies through 
 it. That would have been badass because the enemies could then see the portal and use it against 
 you! But alas, they are not used this way. Most of the time you'll see a portal, and it will just 
 be a way to get you from one location, to another. And overblown door. And the gravpads are not 
 used to their potential either. 90% of the time they're just used to get to another section of 
 an area, you could have just put a bridge there or something. Having these cool things is only 
 good if you use them correctly. I mentioned the way they should have used the portals, but to do 
 that... the AI would need to be challenging, but it; s not. This is just another game using the 
 Doom 3 engine, with very Doom 3 like enemies, with really bad AI. Quake 4 was the previous to have 
 this claim, and Prey carries on the torch. The only time the enemies pose any kind of a challenge 
 is when they are sniping. THEN they are deadly. But here is the problem, when you do in fact die, 
 you go into a very short death walk challenge. All you do is shoot red and blue flying demons things. 
 You shoot them to refill your health and spirit walk gauge. Then get dumped right where you died. 
 I have to admit, it's a cool effect.. but it takes away from the game. When you're in a firefight, 
 you know in the back of your mind that when you die... you're coming right back with more health. 
 Theres not consequence for dying anymore. THATs where the thrill in having a firefight is, that 
 you might die. You fight harder so you don't die. But when you know you're just going to come back 
 after you do die, you just go in guns ablazing. I felt like I was playing with a cheat code on. 
 No satisfaction. Finally there's the spirit walk thing. You'll use this for about 3 different things: 
 Getting passed force fields to shut them off. Getting passed force fields so you can read a passcode, 
 or getting passed force fields so you can turn something on. Thats it. And you never get any new 
 weapons for spirit walk! Just that mediocre bow and arrow. There; s other things like standard weapons 
 dressed up to look different. (A Shotgun that works like a shotgun, but shoots acid instead... 
 but still works just like a regular shotgun.) But they're small and can be ignored.
  
  Graphics: The best feature of the game. But I have to say... while they are good, they don't impress 
 me. I never sat back to marvel at the graphics. I do like how we get to see the Doom 3 engine for 
 more than small corridors, but you still will see a lot of that. I do like the art design too... 
 but something about the graphics gives me a "been there, seen that" feeling. The environments look 
 good, the enemies look good, the weapons look good. Just a good looking game overall.
  
  Sound: Rather disappointing. The voiceactiong is very overdone and cheesy. Tommy's voice is like 
 nails on a chalkboard. And the sounds for the guns is un impressing. But the good point is the 
 ambient sound. It sounds like an alien ship would sound. Also, the Art Bell broadcasts are great, 
 they should have made more, but sadly all of a sudden they disappear from the game.
  
  Value: Thanks to the very easy difficulty, this game can be beat in about 4.5 hours. My playtime 
 was 5, but I've seen people do much less. This isn't a game you're going to playing for days and 
 days. A single sitting for me. Playing for a few hours, talking a break for a few minutes... then 
 going back. Honestly, they spent 10 years developing this game, and we get 5 hours of gameplay? 
 This gives me little hope for Duke Nukem : ( 
  There's multiplayer (multiprey) But I never played it. I don't really have any interest in it, 
 plus I can assume it's just a simple Doom 3, or Quake 4 like multiplayer. You might get a few hours 
 out of it, but don't expect to be playing for months to come.
  
  For a game that's been around this long, you have to feel let down at the outcome. It's really 
 standard FPS stuff here. For $50 I can't condone getting this. Go get $20 and buy HL2: Episode 1. 
 You'll get 6 hours of game out of that, and it's much more fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Masterchief1307
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 10, 2006 10:33 pm PT
Review:  Prey is by-far one of the best FPS's I have played since FEAR. Its originality and architecture 
 are superb and very well thought out. The story was excellent and what really allowed it to grow 
 on me was the superb voice-acting and level-design. I will just break it down into parts and explain 
 why I feel this way:
  
  Gameplay: Prey's gameplay is not revolutionary but it is original and deviates from the traditional 
 FPS through its physics tweaks and portal system. The level designs are great and allow the character 
 to immerse themselves. Additionally, the games story was executed well. There are no points of 
 confusion where you would get lost and it always seems to flow smoothly. Another apsect I like 
 is that the character actually talks while you are in-game. This makes the player feel more connected. 
 Lastly, since I dont want to include spoilers, I do enjoy the various parts of the game where you 
 have to think and also the various twists.
  
  Graphics: Many of you know Prey uses an extremely modified Doom 3 engine. There is nothing wrong 
 with this, I was just people know. Anyways, the Graphics are exceptional. Every item is finely 
 detailed adding to the sense an actual place. The level-design though does tend to get repetetive 
 in some of the levels but as I said before, the way the designers changed the Physics etc, it is 
 not that big of a deal.
  
  Sound: The sound in Prey is top-notch though some sounds seem a little cheesy but its nothing too 
 extreme. Voice-acting is outstanding and it what helps to constatute a much better game.
  
  Misc: I didn't play MultiPrey yet but from what I have heard, it is not too great. It seems it 
 was the basic MP and nothing special was included..
  
  Overall, Prey is a game that everyone should at least try before they buy. The demo version will 
 leave most wanting more since the AI is comepletely dumb-founded but I assure you this dilema is 
 corrected in the Final release. 
  
  The game could have been better as it was in developement for 10 years and certain aspects like 
 portals, wall-walking and spirit-walking could have been used in much more innovative ways.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sollidottingen
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 10, 2006 9:00 am PT
Review:  This game is totally what you would expect it to be if you have played the demo. It is a great 
 game with a great tuned Doom 3 engine that delivers some really cool graphical effects!
  
  The story is pretty good. You and your family gets abducted by aliens and you have too save your 
 girlfriend pretty much. Not too original but it does work. Personally i didn't played the game 
 because of the story but more for the experience, which is awesome!
  
  The atmosphere in this game is what makes you wanna finish the game! The whole mothership where 
 the game takes place has an organic feel too it and even the weapons are organic (except the wrench 
 which is from earth) . I didnt feel like any of the levels where reruns either. All the levels where 
 original and fun to play and they had even put some puzzles in there. ^^
  
  Human Head Studios have really taken some of the best things from other FPS and put it all in this 
 game (in a good way) and they have also come up with some new stuff, like the portals! Yeah I know 
 that portals have been in other games but these ones are revolutionary! they really are portals, 
 not some lazy ass **** with loadscreens or stuff! They are what i like to call it "Real-Time-Portals". 
 It is pretty hard to explain but try the game or download the demo and you will see what i mean. 
 ^^
  
  Overall a great game which was worth the wait! (10 years) 
  Packed with good graphics and fun gameplay! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DrMatta
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 10, 2006 2:19 am PT
Review:  So, i got Prey yesterday and was pretty psyched up about it.
  Judging from the Demo i could see there was alot of innovation;
  I installed it, started it, 
 and could play further from my Demo saves.
  
  Now, the full game is what you also see in the Demo.
  It's not looking better, or sharper, doesn't 
 have more fancy looking effects.. it's just the same; which doesn't matter really; the graphics 
 are superb.
  It's amazing what the Doom 3 engine is capable of; especially that after 2 years, it can still 
 amaze me with it's great visuals.
  
  Prey only takes place on a giant Alien mothership.
  I hear you thinking, "what? ... again?", but really, this one is great.
  This ship has more dimensions, 
 which means you can walk on all the
  six sides of the wall; only through special walking pads though.
  This might make some people 
 feel a little sick in the beginning, since
  you have to shoot enemies from the ceiling (which is very cool) , but it'll fade.
  
  Now, Doom 
 3 and Quake 4 were pretty much the same in terms of visual.
  Metal interior, rocky outside. Same goes for Prey, but;
  they've tweaked the engine so much it's 
 hardly visible in some parts. 
  Especially when you get outside the ship for brief moments, you will see
  great visuals which 
 you thought were not possible with the Engine.
  
  The controls are like any other FPS, except this time, you literaly shoot them
  in any direction, 
 which is great on some parts. The best thing this game has, is it's "Portal Technology". Which 
 is as followed.
  An enemy jumps out of a box, you kill the enemy, and walk towards the box.
  INSIDE the box, there 
 is a huge hall with a spaceship inside.
  It's weird, but it's oh so cool.
  
  The music sounds as if it came out of a movie, with nice orchestral scores.
  Sounds are exceptionally 
 well done; really gives the awkward feel when
  all your living weapons make a strange sounds.
  And strange, the weapons are. Every weapon lives, 
 and moves.
  When you zoom in, an alien scope attaches itself to your eye;
  alien crabs, which you can tear their legs of so they'll explode, it's all there.
  
  I've finished 
 the game, and have to say; it was great.
  Too bad it's only 8 hours, but come to think of it; that's only good.
  The game's structure is 
 solid from start to finish, and if they'd make it
  any longer i think i would have found myself bored.
  
  If you like innovative FPS' and alien 
 stuff on the Doom 3 engine, 
  i would definatly pick it up, it's definatly worth your time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkKiller1990
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 10, 2006 1:40 am PT
Review:  This game is freakin amazing, its gameplay is so unique that i feel like crying, the sounds are 
 so realistic, the movements of the Mobs ( AI ) is so realistic too, the story is nice, the graphics 
 is 1000 times more of what i expected, its just brilliant..
  
  If you want a cool action game with intense levels and gaming, Prey is the game for you !!!...
 
  
  You might recognise ideas took from other games, like AVP for the wallwalk and stuff, Doom3 - QUake 
 4- i mean small details that an ordinary player wont really recognise, but i played this game by 
 covering detail by detail !!!
  
  Well, afterall thats only my opinion, but i really recommend this game :)
  
  -DM 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xxxgangsta
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 10, 2006 1:00 am PT
Review:  Well i didnt exept much from this game but when i played i was amazed , it is so cool ,everything 
 is made very good ,you see this game is like few games inside (For me Maybe)
  Its like:
  Half-life+doom+quake+something new=prey
  Gameplay: its very interesting sometimes i didnt understand 
 were i am but , on the roof or and the floor , but this game is cool...
  Sound: is perfect , player talks sometimes and monters make sounds i can say its very very good
 
  Graphics: what can i say modern day game has good graphics
  And i say thats all about this game for me 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
