-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Prince of Persia: The Two Thrones
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/princeofpersia3/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Same great environmental puzzles you loved from the first two games.
 lengthy, well-paced campaign.
 speed kills keep the action moving.
 fun and challenging boss fights.
 prince lost the baditude.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Certain scenes rely too much on trial and error.
 Start of story may cause confusion for series veterans.
 Some minor sound/save glitches.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec  9, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.4
Critic Score: 8.3, 20 Review (s)
User Score: 9.1, 4,758 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ubisoft
Genre: Fantasy Action Adventure
Date:     Dec 1, 2005 &raquo;  
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The Two Thrones provides a satisfying conclusion to the Sands of Time trilogy, with a lot of the 
 same puzzle-solving and gorgeous environments you remembered from the previous two games. 

 
  The Prince of Persia: Sands of Time trilogy has always been known for its tight controls and satisfying 
 environmental puzzles set in beautiful levels. The series' control scheme has served as a model 
 for countless other games that also feature an acrobatic protagonist like the prince. The same 
 great interface remains in the third game of the series, The Two Thrones. Like the other two games, 
 you'll find yourself wall running, jumping, flipping, and vaulting your way up fiendishly designed 
 environmental puzzles, as well as fighting vicious enemies with the improved combat system introduced 
 in the last game, Warrior Within. The prince has a few new tricks up his sleeve as well, but longtime 
 fans of the series should still feel right at home.  

          The prince is back, and this time, he wants his kingdom.     

  The story of the Sands 
 of Time trilogy began with the prince's army attacking and conquering the capital of the Indian 
 empire. In the midst of the battle, however, an evil vizier caused the release of the sands of 
 time, wreaking havoc over the city and the surrounding countryside. The prince and an Indian princess 
 named Farah battled together to defeat the vizier, bottled up the sands, and restored the world 
 to a normal state. The story continued in Warrior Within, where an embittered prince set sail for 
 the Island of Time, seeking sanctuary from an unstoppable time creature called the Dahaka, who 
 pursued him endlessly because of his part in unleashing the sands of time. There, the prince battled 
 not only the Dahaka, but also Kaileena, the Empress of Time. Fans of the first game felt the series 
 lost a lot of its soul in Warrior Within, as the suddenly cynical prince was much more arrogant 
 and less likable.  

  The Two Thrones begins with the prince returning to Babylon from the Island of Time with the mortal 
 Kaileena as his new lover (this part of the plot may be confusing to those who didn't see the alternate 
 ending of Warrior Within) . As they pull in to the harbor at Babylon, the duo finds the city under 
 siege. Their ship is wrecked by the invaders, and Kaileena is captured by the enemies. You quickly 
 find that the vizier is back and responsible for the uprising. He murders Kaileena and unleashes 
 the sands of time upon Babylon, and the prince must battle to regain his kingdom and avenge Kaileena's 
 death.  

  But it's not just sand creatures and other bad guys from the vizier's army that the prince must 
 fight. With the sands of time infecting his soul, the prince must also battle the whims of his 
 darker, more arrogant side. Throughout the game's long, 12- to 15-hour campaign, the prince will 
 morph back and forth between his normal self and the dark prince. He'll also have internal dialogues 
 between his split personalities, with the original actor from Sands of Time voicing the normal 
 prince, and a new voice actor representing the sneering, more sarcastic dark prince. Here, the 
 game almost becomes self-referential in addressing the popular criticism levied against the arrogant 
 prince from Warrior Within. The internal strife in the schizophrenic prince's mind forms a compelling 
 part of the storyline in The Two Thrones, especially because both the writing and voice acting 
 are pretty good.  

          Playing as the dark prince requires a different style.     

  Turning into the dark prince isn't just window dressing, though. In gameplay sequences in which 
 the prince is his evil self, you'll find that you're much more powerful in combat, thanks to a 
 new weapon called the daggertail. The daggertail is a chainlike weapon that can be swung around 
 to attack multiple enemies, or lashed out like a whip. It also comes in handy for swinging across 
 bars or lamp fixtures, kind of like in Bionic Commando. Unfortunately, this added power comes at 
 a price. Much like playing as the sand wraith in Warrior Within, the dark prince loses health constantly, 
 and it must be replenished periodically by recovering sand from defeated enemies or from breaking 
 jars or furniture in the environment. Unlike the sand wraith, though, the dark prince doesn't get 
 unlimited use of sand powers. The sequences in which you play as the dark prince let you be much 
 more aggressive in combat, as health is never really a concern (you basically get recharged fully 
 with each downed enemy) , but the puzzle-solving and acrobatic sequences can be stressful because 
 you have a time limit to get from point A to point B. Fighting as the regular prince is very similar 
 to the previous two games in the series. You can pick up dropped weapons for use in your offhand, 
 which lets you do more powerful weapon combos against enemies. Or you can vault off walls and poles, 
 and even use the enemies themselves to augment your attacks. The fights are as violent as ever -- you 
 can behead or even cut enemies in half with the more powerful moves.     

  What's different about the combat in The Two Thrones is the introduction of a stealth-kill mechanic, 
 or "speed kills," as they're called in the game. To execute a speed kill, you'll need to sneak 
 up behind (or drop in from above) an unaware enemy. Tapping one button starts the speed-kill animation. 
 Periodically, the animation will freeze, and you'll have a split second to tap a button to execute 
 a strike. There are a number of different animations, and depending on the enemy it can require 
 you to strike once or up to five times. Mistime any of your strikes and the speed kill will fail, 
 meaning you'll have to fight the enemy the regular way. If you can catch two enemies close together, 
 you can also use double speed kills. Overall, the new stealth-kill mechanic is pretty fun and satisfying 
 to do and watch. The animations are extremely violent; you'll shank your foes every which way in 
 their necks, guts, backs, and chests. The mechanic of doing a speed kill also offers just the right 
 amount of challenge -- it's not so easy that they're always automatic, but they're not too hard, 
 either. Most importantly, though, speed killing your enemies means much less time spent in combat, 
 which was never really Prince of Persia's strong suit as a game. We found ourselves rewinding out 
 of failed speed kills to try them again, because they're not only fun to watch, but they also help 
 keep the game moving along. There are also a few boss fights in The Two Thrones, and each of them 
 offers a unique challenge. Many of them will require you to combine speed-kill mechanics with climbing 
 and jumping skills.  

          It's not Prince of Persia without jumping and climbing.     

  Speaking of climbing 
 and jumping, this wouldn't really be a Prince of Persia game if there weren't tons of environmental 
 puzzles to solve. As in previous games in the series, you'll be doing a lot of wall running, jumping, 
 climbing, mantling, and trap dodging to find switches that open up doors, or simply to get to broken 
 holes in the wall that will get you to the next room. A number of areas will require you to turn 
 levers and hit switches to operate machinery that changes the position of platforms and other level 
 geometry. Most of these are pretty straightforward, but once in a while you'll run into a puzzle 
 that requires some thought. The game does a pretty good job of introducing complicated rooms with 
 camera flybys and other visual cues, so you'll always know where to go and what you're supposed 
 to be doing.  

  Aside from combat and climbing, there are a couple of chariot race sequences in the game, but these 
 tend to be somewhat frustrating because one small mistake means you're dead. If you're unlucky 
 enough to reach a chariot sequence with few or no sand charges in your dagger, prepare yourself 
 for a lot of trial and error to get through the sequence. Another small thing that's disappointing 
 about the gameplay is that the sand powers take somewhat of a backseat in combat, especially toward 
 the end of the game. Though you'll unlock some sand powers that can be used in combat, speed kills 
 are all you really need in this game. You'll probably end up wanting to save your sand for rewinding 
 time anyway, in case you make a mistake on a jump or on a speed kill. Rewinding time to make up 
 for mistakes in combat or puzzle-solving has been a staple of the series since Sands of Time, and 
 it's still the time power you'll probably use the most by far in The Two Thrones.  

  The Two Thrones still uses what appears to be a very similar engine as was used in the previous 
 games in the series. While it has aged, the game still looks fantastic, especially the large and 
 wondrous-looking levels you explore. Whether you're jumping across rooftops in the city of Babylon, 
 plying its underground caves, or exploring the palace grounds, there's always something pretty 
 to look at. In the PC version, you'll probably notice that textures used for skin and certain parts 
 of the environment aren't as sharp, making it obvious that this version of the game is a console 
 port. However, the deficiencies in the graphics engine are largely masked by lots of light bloom, 
 which creates a soft-focus visual effect that contributes to the fairy tale atmosphere. The game 
 still looks great overall, though, especially because of the prince's great-looking animations 
 while jumping, climbing, or doing speed kills. The game also runs very smoothly, even at high resolution 
 with antialiasing turned on. The music is a marked improvement from the last game, eschewing the 
 annoying hard rock for more traditional Middle Eastern themes and instruments that you'd expect 
 in a game called Prince of Persia. The voice acting is also very good, although the actress voicing 
 Kaileena (who also narrates the game) might be a little too soft-spoken to hear clearly at times. 

          If you're a fan of the first two games, The Two Thrones won't disappoint.     

  As 
 far as the interface goes, the PC version of The Two Thrones, much like the two games before it, 
 is surprisingly very playable with just a mouse and keyboard. It's certainly much easier to play 
 if you have an analog controller, but dedicated mouse-and-keyboard jockeys still won't have any 
 trouble getting the acrobatic prince to do his thing, whether it's puzzle-solving or combat. The 
 thing is, we couldn't actually get the game to recognize an analog controller. We tried plugging 
 in a peripheral controller, and clicking on default control scheme seems to set up the controller 
 just fine. But in game, no input on the controller seems to register at all. As for other technical 
 complaints, we ran into some minor glitches relating to sound and saves. Sometimes, upon loading 
 the game, the launcher would complain that another application was using the sound driver, even 
 when we shut down all other applications. At other times, the game would freeze up on the save 
 screen. However, a fresh reboot always fixed the sound-loading issue, and we didn't notice the 
 save-screen freezes so long as we avoided switching into other applications while playing.  

  The Two Thrones marks a fitting end to a fantastic trilogy. The plot ties up all the loose ends 
 and should prove satisfying for fans of the series. Though some new gameplay mechanics have been 
 introduced, such as the speed kill and the new tricks of the dark prince, The Two Thrones is still 
 basically very similar to the other two games -- if you didn't like those for some reason, this game's 
 not likely to pull you in. But for those of us who love solving the environmental puzzles and seeing 
 the beautiful environments that the series is known for, The Two Thrones delivers in spades.   
   
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (256 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: body-n
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 18, 2009 4:54 am PT
Review:  It is realy an interesting game and the video graphic is realy realy perfect and what the prince 
 able to do is amazing and this is one of best games in the world but some views is not good but 
 this is wonderful game and I finished it and I am enjoyed with the game and it is little hard and 
 the prince is very strong and the dagger is beautiful and strong and the story of game is very 
 exciting and this game is big game and there is many places and many monsters and it is three parts 
 from this game part one is sands of time part two is Warrior Within part three is The Two Thrones 
 and this is realy perfect and amazing game and I love it very much this is realy realy interesting 
 and exciting game with perfect story and there is many people and monsters in the story game with 
 realy realy realy perfect graphic this is wonderful game and story with interesting graphic 
::::::

::::::
UserName: orcsblade
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 24, 2009 6:54 am PT
Review:  This is the final installment in the sands of time trilogy finishing it off with a great impression 
 on us Persia of Persia fans. Taking the best elements from the sands of time and warrior within 
 and combining them in this game and adding something new makes this an excellent end to the trilogy. 
 I truly enjoy this one in the series the most because of that.
  
  Plot  Huge improvement from warrior within but not as good as the sands of time. The Prince discovers 
 that as a result of his efforts on the Island of Time to prevent the Sands of Time from being created, 
 the events of sands of time never happened, thus, the Vizier was never killed, and it gets really 
 good from there.
  
  Graphics  I thought they were good looking but at times they look kind-of dated like when you 
 see a cut scene when the prince rides a horse, the horse looks really bad, and for some reason 
 I feel that the sands of time graphics were the best and this is being back in 2003. Also the lighting 
 effect in the game is very strong when you max out all the settings. When I put on AA x2 or x4 
 a blinding spot of light comes out of nowhere and I don't no if this is a bug or suppose to happen 
 but its very annoying and so I just turn of AA all together and problem solved. 
  
  Game play - the movements of the prince are mostly the same as warrior within and with the cool 
 combat fighting system, however bringing something new, the awesome stealth kill is my favorite 
 move. And another cool thing is the dagger plates and the jump on the shutter from wall to wall 
 and also climbing up or down in between a wall, all of theses combined just makes the game even 
 more replay-able and exciting. Very little or no blood (except at the beginning with the dagger 
 you get from a table.) Heads being chopped off and bodies being sliced in half is all gone so its 
 not there if you are hoping it to be, but the game is still fun without it. Although if someone 
 invented a blood patch to the game it would be pretty cool. I have come across mainly one major 
 bug in the game-play and that is in the ending of the middle tower level (I think its this one, 
 its being a while since I last played it) and this is when you have to run up a wall, grab a dagger 
 plate, run to a shutter and jump from it to another dagger plate, but this is where the bug is, 
 he wouldn't grab the plate, I tried hundreds of times but he would not grab it, so I did some research 
 on google and there are others with the same problem. So what I did to get pass this is to download 
 a save game and play from there. However I do remember that when I uninstall the game and reinstall 
 it a few months later I had no problem at all with this bug, it was like it never happened, but 
 I must say that it was very annoying to come across especially when you are so close to the end. 
 
  
  Sound/Music- very good sound effects in the fighting and environments anyway the whole game has 
 very good sound effects and is well done. Music is nothing to do with heavy metal like warrior 
 within, but its more of a Arabic type rhythm music like the first game, and I think it works really 
 well in the game and its very nice to hear. There is one level that has terrible music to the ears 
 and that is the middle tower level, 3rd last level (I think) , its just so annoying to listen too 
 so I just turn down the volume for that part.
  
  Pros- Very nice graphics, good game play, excellent fighting system, the story and dialogue is 
 hundred times better that the previous game, a lot of replay value, great fighting scenes, the 
 game itself is full of excellence. 
  
  Cons- major bug and awful music in that middle tower level, AA x2 or x4 don't work well when enable.
 
  
  Outstanding end to the trilogy and I am quite sad not to see of this Prince of Persia any more.
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Foolz3h
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 2, 2009 11:40 pm PT
Review:  I received Prince of Persia: the Two Thrones for free thanks to the good people at Next Publishing. 
 I wasn't looking forward to playing it, but when my World of Warcraft subscription ran out I thought, 
 what the hell. As the intro rolled my scepticism grew. The story sucked, the voice acting sucked, 
 and then, as the actual game began, the gameplay sucked. But then at some point it hit me like 
 an epileptic fit: the story and the voice acting were suddenly so bad they were good-listening 
 to the Prince's emotional rants about his destroyed city and his father was hilarious, and so was 
 watching him transform into the Dark Prince, which in its effort to be dramatic, ended up looking 
 like an orgasm and an epileptic fit rolled into one. In fact, now that I think about it, it was 
 soon after he first transformed that it hit me-soon after the twist (and I use the term loosely) 
 that revealed what the Dark Prince really was, I realised how absolutely hilarious the game was. 
 And that made the inner-dialogue between the two all the better.
  I must admit I warmed to the gameplay a little quicker. It's linear, it doesn't require much thought, 
 but there's a strong sense of exhilaration and thrill to it. Sure I thought it was a little un-inspired 
 and boring to begin with, but soon after combat was introduced I was having a lot of fun. There 
 was a nostalgic thrill to making my way through traps-traps like nothing I'd seen since Tomb Raider 
 on the original Playstation. And while you can't deviate from the path through each level, the 
 thrill of exploration is still there, because you have to work out how to get through the level. 
 
  I must commend Ubisoft on two things. The first is that they actually managed to make a game like 
 this work well with a keyboard and mouse, and the second is that they also made sure the game looked 
 good on lower settings. It's not every day you find a console to PC port that has fared so well, 
 and while I suffered two fatal crashes, bad lip-synching, and sound effects being repeated, they 
 can probably be put down to my PC. Though considering how bad Assassin's Creed's port was it might 
 not be. All in all though, credit where credit is due.
  I know I'm repeating myself, but it really was a monumental change in opinion. In fact I hated 
 everything about the game to begin with. Shall I add something else to the list? Well, all the 
 Persians looked and sounded decidedly American. Sure it's nitpicking, but for a game that desperately 
 wants to feel like a tale from the One Thousand and One Nights, it's somewhat important. Yet at 
 the end of the day if it had actually felt like that I probably wouldn't have ended up liking it; 
 at the very I certainly wouldn't have liked it as much as I did. 
  I'm personally not a huge fan of that type of story-something about it just doesn't click with 
 me-yet I would certainly have commended Ubisoft for putting it into a video game. But I'm a huge 
 sucker for B-Grade shows and films, and there really aren't enough games B-Grade games, which is 
 probably because there isn't much ambition story and character wise in video games. The Two Thrones 
 had ambition, and because it had ambition and could fail, it could be B-Grade. 
  But I didn't love everything about it. The combat-oh god the combat! Maybe this was the failing 
 in their keyboard/mouse control scheme? Maybe this was why they said you needed a gamepad for optimal 
 experience? I doubt it. Even if I had taken the combo system seriously for more than five minutes, 
 (after which I realised repeatedly pressing E got the combat out of the way a hell of a lot quicker) 
 except for the boss battles, almost all combat felt like an annoying obstacle. I'm in the middle 
 of streaking across roof tops, running along walls, and then I have to stop for thirty seconds 
 just to kill some bloody sand monsters? Oh come on! Talk about a pace killer. And being unable 
 to change secondary attack to the right mouse button without changing wall run is sheer lunacy. 
 That's how it should be in the first place! After such an otherwise successful control scheme you 
 really have to wonder what the hell they were thinking.
  Still they managed to pull off the boss fights well enough. It was just a pity there weren't more 
 of them. In fact if there were, and most confrontations with sand monsters were removed, the pacing 
 and flow of the game would probably have been greatly improved. Here is where I would complain 
 about the control in the boss fights, but I won't because short of offering different camera angles 
 depending on your control scheme, there isn't really a way around it-wait, why the hell didn't 
 they just add in a new camera angle for those that used a keyboard and a mouse?!
  But one thing Ubisoft have no excuse for is some of the save point positions. For the most part 
 they're well placed, but some have been placed seemingly at random with absolutely no thought for 
 how long the player has been playing or what their frustration level might be. The best example 
 of this is late on in the game. After a lengthy chariot chase (which was a pain in the arse) you 
 are then pushed head first into a boss battle. Surely after a frustrating section that many people 
 probably took awhile to complete, it would have been wise to give you the option to save? It is 
 just before a god damn boss battle after all! 
  Another is the result of the linearity: due to the fact that you have to figure out where to and 
 how to get where you need to go, the linearity doesn't make the core gameplay boring. It does however 
 make it frustrating. You can never be sure which crevasses you can grab onto, and which protruding 
 beams of wood you can drop down to. This is especially annoying because it will mean that you will 
 probably miss some health upgrades because you'll never quite be sure if you can drop down to that 
 cave to check if there's an upgrade inside it  Then again maybe I'm just a wuss. I mean with sand 
 tanks it doesn't matter too much if you fall to your death because you can just rewind. (Did you 
 just see how seamless that segue was?) Actually, at first I thought that this got rid of the consequences 
 of falling, but they managed to balance the number of sand tanks you have perfectly, so that it 
 did give you some leeway for trial and error, but it didn't mean that there were no consequences 
 for dieing; there's only so many times you can rewind before your sand tanks run out!
  I think I'm still surprised at how much I ended up enjoying it. I really did think I would absolutely 
 hate it, but due to the corn and nostalgia factor it will probably go down as one of my favourites. 
 I know what you're thinking, repeating yourself twice is indulgent, but repeating yourself three 
 times is lame. Well it's because that's what The Two Thrones is to me. It's indulgent, it's stupid, 
 and I loved every second of it because it was. I hope you came into the review with even lower 
 expectations than I did with the game, as otherwise I'm in trouble.
  
  NOTE:
  I should probably clarify that my use of B-Grade here is not referring to low-budget films, as 
 Prince of Persia certainly isn't low budget. It's in reference to films that are so bad that they 
 are good, but I couldn't really be bothered typing that out several times. :P
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: santiagoboari
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 16, 2008 9:50 am PT
Review:  We all remember the excitement when we got a hold of the first one: "Prince of Persia: The Sands 
 of Time", it was an innovational experience at gameplay, rendered with amazingly beautiful graphics 
 and such dynamic that one was sometimes overwhelmed with the experience of playing the game.
  Basically, it was a great game, and so was its sequel: "Prince of Persia: Warrior Within", which 
 enabled new moves and acrobatics for the Prince, as well as an enormous list of combos to have 
 fun with.
  Now, the last one in the series, the one that brings a conclusion to the trilogy "Sands of Time" 
 catches just right up you finish Warrior Within.
  After taking the Sands of time in the first one, and escaping the Dahaka and saving the Kailenna, 
 you are arriving at the coast of your homeland: Babylon.
  But it ain't all nice. You encounter that the city was taken and must make your way through to 
 the Castle to find out what the hell's going on.
  Now, the graphics are rendered smoothly and beautifully, - even better than its predecessors - 
 with really big levels in which you immerse and get a real experience while fighting hoards and 
 hoards of enemies. The fighting is as that of Warrior Within, but somehow it manages to feel better 
 while you are at it. 
  After little time playing, the Prince gets infected with the Sands of Time, hence giving life to 
 his alter ego, the Dark Prince, whom emerges a lot throughout the game, and in these sequences 
 that you get to play with the Dark Prince you can hear some interesting arguments between the Prince 
 and his alter ego, which really brings something new to the series.
  All and all it's not a really new experience if you played the previous ones, but nevertheless 
 it's the best experience you'll get from this trilogy. A great game every action-game fan should 
 play, if not everyone just to have a little simple, plain, addictive gaming fun.
  Enjoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuperQ-2
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 15, 2008 8:22 pm PT
Review:  Prince of Persia The Two Thrones is the last game of the series at least for this prince. The game 
 starts out with you and Kaileena sailing back to Babylon, and to no surprise war has run amok Babylon. 
 Your ship is attacked and you eventually are separated from Kaileena. In the beginning level it 
 runs you through a quick and well executed tutorial, which has appeared in every game so far, and 
 even as you go on through the game and find new puzzles or new acrobatic platforms, the hints still 
 remain and give you an advantage throughout the game. However, it still is quite a challenge. The 
 combat can be quite difficult at times. A new feature known as speed kills, is a sort of stealth 
 kill only performable by sneaking up behind an enemy and pressing the designated button which activates 
 it. These are extremely useful but at times they can get a bit frustrating like if you pressed 
 the button to early or too late, the timing must be perfect. 
  
  As far as gameplay goes, everything still checks out and gets an A+.... A darker side of you known 
 throughout the game simply as The Dark Prince is your untapped potential, so says The Dark Prince 
 himself. It is evident that he can kill your enemies much quicker and easier than the normal prince 
 can, but of course there's a downer to this. Your health will constantly run out unless you have 
 sand to fuel it, so it would be a wise move to find all existing health bonuses in the game so 
 you'll have a sufficient supply that will last you. 
  The Dark Prince has a sort of personality of his own. In a way he is indescribable. His goals seem 
 to be for a good cause, and he wishes to quicken The Vizier's death, but he is not willing to slow 
 down and help others. His thoughts are centered on annihilating The Vizier. And you will destroy 
 him but not on the Dark Princes watch.
  An old friend from The Sands of Time has returned, Farrah, the princess of India. You shall meet 
 up with her fairly soon in the game but she shall not help you combat wise as she did in The Sands 
 of Time. However she still will help you in some areas, for instance there maybe a hanging crate 
 that you need to move so you may hold a switch down, she will take an arrow and shoot it down for 
 you. So Farrah is also a very helpful and contributing part of the game.
  The game entirely will take you about 15 hours to get entirely through, that is if your slow like 
 me. The ending i promise you will make you wish the series for that prince would continue and the 
 story wouldn't end. 
  As far as the graphics go, they still look amazing. The landscapes and environments are dazzling 
 in beauty, and the character models still look bright and vibrant as well. The lighting and shadowing 
 in the game has noticeably improved, that itself makes it stand out from some games.
  The replay value should rank at an 8, nothing really will change if you go through the game a second 
 time. The combat will still be just as fun as will the running, tumbling, and jumping be also. 
 
  The bottom line for this game is it is purely a fun addicting game that you cant miss. The story's 
 end will make you miss this prince, and prepare for a new one as well. 
  So anyone who has played any previous games in the series, or hasn't played a game in the series 
 at all, this is a perfect game to play if your looking for an entertaining and story filled action/adventure 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vortex_gw
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 2, 2008 10:40 am PT
Review:  With the new Prince of Persia just around the corner I have decided to share my thoughts on the 
 previous proper Prince of Persia games. The Sands of time trilogy is one of my favourite games 
 series. Now let's see what the last game of the trilogy is all about  Prince of Persia: The Two 
 Thrones.
  
  The game continues after the secret ending in Warrior Within. The prince and Kaileena are sailing 
 in a small boat and the prince's kingdom is just around the corner but they are in for a surprise 
 because the kingdom is on fire and their boat is destroyed by soldiers almost immediately. The 
 empress is kidnapped and the prince goes to the rescue while trying to figure out what happened 
 in the kingdom. Soon you catch up with the soldiers and realise that the vizier is alive and due 
 to the things you did on the island of time everything else has been changed too. The vizier kills 
 Kaileena and the sands of time are released once again. The prince gets infected by the sands after 
 that the price is split into two personalities, normal prince and dark prince who basically is 
 a sand monster. He has a chain and is stronger than the prince.
  The story is good as always and if you have played the previous games you will know how to play 
 this game too with the exception of the SPEED KILL. You can kill the bosses only by performing 
 the speed kill. They are enjoyable and a different pace to the prince of persia formula. Everything 
 else in PoP style and fans of the series won't be disappointed. There are great running sequences 
 and basically if you like the previous games you will like this one too but I don't recommend to 
 play the game right after you've finished Warrior Within because you might feel a little disappointed. 
 You can finish the game in 8 hours depending on your skills.
  Finally I will say that this is a good last game in such a wonderful trilogy.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tidruG
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 25, 2008 11:48 am PT
Review:  The Sands of Time started this Prince of Persia trilogy with exquisite, undeniable charm, with 
 gameplay that was as fun as it was unique. However, many people felt that it lacked severely where 
 combat was concerned, as it had a very repetitive, button-mashing approach to combat. The length 
 of the single-player mission was also a bit on the short side. The second part of the trilogy, 
 Warrior Within, set out to right those apparent wrongs. Combat was definitely a lot more engaging, 
 and had a lot more to offer, what with the ability to hold two weapons and use them efficiently 
 with the help of combos. A rather small playable environment was on offer, but all the backtracking 
 (which ultimately ended up being quite a bit annoying at times) helped in making the game that 
 much longer. There were also voices of dissent regarding the new meaner, rougher, battle-scarred 
 Prince, and the use of hard rock music.
  
  The Two Thrones, therefore, was probably designed trying to incorporate the best of both games. 
 The real question is, does it manage to live up to what it set out to be?
  
  Undeniably, the game regains some of its lost charm from the Sands of Time. The Prince is now voiced 
 by the same person who voiced him in The Sands of Time. Well, a part of him anyway. In order to 
 include the meaner Prince from Warrior Within, a darker Prince is unveiled here, supposedly a split 
 personality of our Prince Charming. And guess who voices him? The same voice-actor from The Warrior 
 Within. Does it work? Yes, it does, sometimes, especially when the Dark Prince whispers witty little 
 comments during the Prince's conversations with Farah.
  
  Speaking of Farah, guess who's back? Farah! (You saw that coming, didn't you?) And she's not the 
 only thing to have made a comeback from The Sands of Time. This time, too, the game progresses 
 in the form of story-telling, a tale being told by Kaileena. While the voice acting in the game 
 is generally of a superlative quality, the voice-over for Kaileena, I felt was terrible, especially 
 when you pause. It's almost as if the story-teller is not interested in telling you the story at 
 all. "I can wait, I have all the time in the world" delivered in the sleepiest, sorriest voice 
 you've heard doesn't really make you feel like you oughta jump right back into the action. That 
 puts Sands of Time at least one point ahead of The Two Thrones. While we're on the topic of comparing 
 the two, let it also be known that the chemistry between the Prince and Farah in SOT was what made 
 that game so much fun for me, but the chemistry here appears to fall short. It feels like their 
 lives have already been scripted, and they're just acting them out for us, rather than the spontaneous, 
 gradual shift in feelings that appears in SOT.
  
  Moving on, let's compare TTT (wow, that looks like a 3-headed pi... completely irrelevant, of course, 
 so let's return to the review) with Warrior Within (WW) . Combat, in my opinion, is a little more 
 fun in WW, especially because your primary weapon is always some type of badass sword. Your primary 
 weapon in TTT is the revamped dagger of time. However, every time you have to do battle as the 
 Dark Prince, your secondary weapon becomes the daggertail-a chain that is attached to the Prince's 
 left arm. Combo moves involving the dark prince and his daggertail are particularly satisfying, 
 especially when you see a perfectly pulled off combo getting rid of 4 enemies at once. RAWR! Sadly, 
 your life meter keeps decreasing when you play as the Dark Prince, and you'll have to keep collecting 
 sand (either by killing, or by crashing pots and other articles that might have sand in them) to 
 replenish lost life.
  
  TTT also introduces "stealth kill", which lets you quickly and silently kill enemies without having 
 to engage them in free-form combat. These basically involve hitting the secondary attack button 
 at just the right moment, so while they may not be particularly challenging, they do provide some 
 cinematic moments. Boss battles, too, are a lot more fun, and require more thought than the  
 approach. They mostly involve the use of the previously mentioned stealth kill, although it might 
 take you a little while to figure out how exactly you need to approach a particular boss.
  
  The sometimes very frustrating Dahaka chase sequences are gone, to be replaced by a couple 
 of sections of chariot races. These are unlike the Dahaka sequences though, for you just have to 
 guide your chariot along without hitting into walls. The handling is not perfect, but it shouldn't 
 be too much of a problem, particularly for those who might have played any driving games at all.
 
  
  Before I begin the conclusion, let me write one more paragraph about the characterization. I believe 
 SOT to be one of the finest games as far as storyline and characterization are concerned. The Prince 
 himself was an extremely likeable character, not too preachy, and just the right mix of pride and 
 naivety. WW turned him into an angry, violent fighting machine. While TTT tries to return the prince 
 to his SOT charm, it doesn't quite work. The sarcasm certainly is classy here, but the prince comes 
 across as being just a little bit dull, a little bit less than heroic here, perhaps thanks to Kaileena's 
 dull recital of the story. The idea behind trying to show his progression from being the naive 
 young prince of SOT to the more mature one at the end of TTT is laudable, but doesn't completely 
 succeed in making him so very likeable. Farah, too, is not nearly as likeable or attractive as 
 she was in SOT. Kaileena, dressed a little more like the Empress of Time this time around, has 
 a shorter role to play, so apart from the bit about her voice-acting being a shoddy job, there's 
 nothing more to add.
  
  And so we reach the conclusion. As I said, The Two Thrones set out to bring the best of its fore-runners 
 into a single game. Did it succeed? To some extent, it has succeeded in doing so, but the rough 
 edge was better in Warrior Within, and the charm was definitely a few notches higher in The Sands 
 of Time. What you get is a game that tries real hard, and almost makes it. Rest assured that all 
 ends well with the Prince, and while the closing cutscene is nowhere near as good as the one at 
 the end of either of the two previous games, it provides a closure in the form of the circle of 
 life (I refuse to divulge any more) . I strongly suggest playing this game through, just to wrap 
 up one of the most fun platformer game trilogies of all time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lightscout_11
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 9, 2008 5:25 am PT
Review:  Since i started SoT i just cant stop playing Prince of Persia. The first game had weak gameplay 
 but great story, the second one had an improved fighting system and the best music in the series. So 
 what has T2T better then his predecessors. The answer is the gameplay which is by far the best 
 in the trilogy. Its so great that you can fight as The Sand Wraith (which is very powerfull and 
 has great moves) . Also the Speed Kills are rly cool (u can sneak behind your enemies and kill them 
 with great moves) . Two of the most cool characters in the series are back (play the game if u wanna 
 see who they are) . T2T haves one of the best endings i ever seen for a trilogy. Ok now its time 
 to see the bad parts (every game haves them : ( ( ) . The music is by far the worst in the series 
 (not rly bad but SoT and WW had amazing soundtracks) . The story is kinda weak except for the ending. 
 The game is very short and easy (same as SoT) .
  
  Anyway its a great game and a great ending to SoT trilogy. Definitely worth playing even if you 
 aren't, a Prince of Persia fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Screamer201
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 26, 2008 5:26 am PT
Review:  Prince of Persia: The Sands of Time marked a comeback for Jordan Mechner's classic PC franchise 
 that (save for one abortive revival attempt) had been languishing for years. The classic puzzle-solving 
 gameplay of the original made a seamless transition to 3D, and if the game's combat wasn't all 
 that great, it was more than made up for by the fun of running up walls, sliding along ledges, 
 dodging fiendish deathtraps, and solving puzzles. The series seemed to lose its way a bit with the 
 sequel, The Warrior Within. While the combat had been improved and the puzzles were even tougher. The 
 game begins with the Prince returning to his home city of Babylon from the Island of Time, the 
 location of the second game, with his new love Kaileena in tow. Unfortunately, all isn't well in 
 the city. In fact, the whole place is essentially on fire thanks to an assault by an army from 
 India that has brought the Prince's kingdom low.
  
  Never being one to stand around when there are heads to be cut off and death-defying leaps to be 
 made, the Prince wades into the fray, scimitar at the ready. As always when the Prince's sword 
 overrules his head, however, things go horribly wrong, an old enemy returns, and the Sands of Time 
 are again released. The game also makes heavy use of light bloom to create the golden, dreamlike 
 glow fans of the series remember from the first game. Unlike the ever-changing colored filter from 
 The Warrior Within, though, this effect never gets annoying, it merely serves to transport the 
 player into what feels like a new tale from The Arabian Nights. This is the masterpiece of the series 
 you should buy it it whorts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SmallMafia
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 12, 2008 1:47 am PT
Review:  -A big thanks goes to mate Jonty Sydney, Max respect!-
  
  The Two Thrones is the last in the series that carries the tale of the Prince and the sands of 
 time. The nice thing about T2T is the fact that you dont need to have played the last two games 
 to be able to understand whats going on - you can jump straight in. This is also not your ordinary 
 platformer! Apart from scalling walls and shimmying across chasms in any normal platformer the 
 mechanics in this allow for some awesome gamplay - be prepared to run across walls, up walls, jump 
 walls, swing poles at break-neck speeds, balance on poles and loads more. All this serves up for 
 some really fun and fast paced and constantly heart thumping levels. On that note the level design 
 is absolutely brilliant and always fun. This game, unlike other platformers focuses on action; 
 linking both battles and environments together to deliver some of the most kickass action sequences. 
 you're able to take on a horde of foes while break dancing and achieveing all this without a scratch, 
 and thats awesome. Now if you think this game is easy - well its not. This is one of the most unforgiving 
 games Ive played in ages so be prepared to see the classical arcadish-platformish "Game Over" screen 
 again and again and again. If you miscalculate a single move you can say good bye to the Prince 
 and hello to a reload. The developers did add in the ability to reverse time but quite honestly 
 this is never really effective enough to make you want to use it, rather just let him die and learn 
 from your mistake. Although the game is fun, the difficulty just blows the s***t out of the fun 
 factor and added to that the camera and controls are rubbish and you'll have a tough time controling 
 the prince. I know its a port, but I think a little time spent on revamping controls and camera 
 would have gone a long way. There is a huge learining curve in this game - even though the training 
 level takes less than 15min you'll stil be learning the game 3 hours in and thats a waste of precious 
 gaming time. The story line too doesnt help much: its weak and boring and voice acting and lip 
 syncing are crap - plain and simple.
  If you have the patience to put yourself through such a hard game with terrible controls you may 
 just have fun from this game, but it is strictly for the fans of the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: freudlacan
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 19, 2008 12:13 pm PT
Review:  Ive been playing prince of persia since the fisrt 2D version apeared to the PC, and things have 
 changed a lot since that time for shure.
  
  At warrior within I really also agreed with gamespot about why they changed the nice prince soo 
 much to make him a bad dude, dark bloddy looking, but with this game the producers seems that have 
 made a turn back to what was a great at the first "sand of time" and it produces a great mix.
 
  
  Its like the first game they made a dish with lots of shugar, the second with lots of salt but 
 this one was just right.
  
  Afetr playing warrior within i was really scared about this one, i was specting hords of monsters 
 following me and of course a great beats chaing the prince trough long difficult secuences, thanks 
 God they developed the stealth kill interface, theres also a save point just where it have to bee, 
 and the chases are subplanted by the dark prince secuences in witch you have to do things fast 
 before energy runs out.
  
  I gave this game 9.5 cause every time i quited i was just craving to go back for the next secuence, 
 soo I finished the game pretty fast and was just saying, "just when i was making the good moves 
 the game ended" yeap, great game but a little short.
  
  Just wana say for all game developers out there, I dont cae if the game uses 10 DVDs but make 
 bigger games.
  
  Thanks 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Triplep1103
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 18, 2008 7:37 pm PT
Review:  The prince comes back in the third and final game of this trilogy.
  
  The prince is still violent but now with the dahaka gone he isn't quite as violent as Warrior Within. 
 He now goes back to babylon, his town, and finds that since he saved the empress vizier is still 
 alive and has taken over the city. Right when he sees the destruction his ship is attacked and 
 he crashed into the island. Some guards nab the empress and drag her around the city. The prince 
 follows these guards to eventually see her killed. The vizier then is turned into a sand monster 
 with the rest of his army. The prince once again is okay. Or so he thinks. The prince soon realizes 
 that the sands awoke another part of himself that every now and then he turns into. This new dark 
 side is more powerful in battle but slowly loses health. His health comes back every sand you collect 
 so it's no big deal.
  
  This game also includes epic boss fights, enjoyable speed kills, someone you never expected to 
 see again, and chariot rides that are extremely fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chirodip_08
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 6, 2008 8:21 am PT
Review:  So, this is the third Prince of Persia, eh ?
  If you happen to have played the previous two POP's you know what to expect. If you just happen 
 to have seen the trailers in the web, you have an idea whats in the game. Let me tell you, folks, you 
 BOTH have no idea what-so-ever what this game really is.
  I am a big POP fan and have played the last two games, so I know how the Prince does his things. But 
 even I was shocked to see how this one turned out to be.
  This game introduces a new feature called the 'Speed Kill' by virtue of which you can kill your 
 enemies (more villainous than ever before) with just a couple of correctly-timed mouse-button clicks. This 
 can be quite useful when dealing with a lot of unaware enemies, which are actually sand-creatures 
 if you remember.
  The new villain, this time, is the Vizier. You'll get to see him soon in the game.
  You also have 
 the ability to turn into the Dark-Prince, who will be introduced soon in the game as well.
  The gameplay is as solid as ever before, with a couple of enhancements which you will have to find 
 out yourself, I'm keeping my mouth shut, or else the Dark-Prince will kill me with his new weapon, the 
 Daggertail. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackout_06
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 6, 2008 2:43 am PT
Review:  Prince is back and he is out for blood, well....... sand would sound better. The third sequel to 
 the critically acclaimed Prince of Persia series, The Two Thrones is a game where you get more 
 than a fair slice of action. Prince comes back, more ugly and cooler than before with slick moves 
 and mean combos. He's a guy you wouldn't want to mess with. The Two Thrones also features Prince's 
 nemesis, the Dark Prince (not only dark, but glowing too) . The game also has a cool new weapon, 
 the dagger tail. 
  
  The campaign is long drawn and fast paced with all the old Prince of Persia combos and a wicked 
 new feature - the speed kill. You can initiate speed kills from anywhere as long as the enemy does 
 not see you, even when you're on top of him. The good old vizier comes back in this game and he 
 takes a turn for the worst when he transforms himself into the half-scorpion half-butterfly, half-grasshopper 
 and of course half-human hybrid.
  The action in the game is fluid with stunning visuals and a good physics engine. Prince uses his 
 dagger of time for speed kills while Dark Prince prefers to wring others' necks with his dagger 
 tail. Keeping pace with the Dark Prince's draining health may seem difficult at first, but you'll 
 get used to it. The Dark Prince loses health while not fighting, but don't worry you'll get plenty 
 of enemies when you're the Dark Prince. Defeating Klompa according to me is the best part of the 
 game according to me because there the speed kills are TOTALLY AWESOME. You'll know what I'm talking 
 about when you play the game. I tell you PoP T2T is simply WICKED!
  
  RATING
  
  Gameplay-9
  Graphics-9
  Sound-9
  Value-9
  Tilt-9
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CoNsuRaL
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 11, 2008 3:09 am PT
Review:  ATTENTION! THIS GAME IS VERY ADDICTING AND YOU PROBABLY WONT BE ABLE TO CLOSE YOUR PC WITHOUT FINISHING 
 THE GAME. BECAUSE THIS GAME RULES!
  PoP series have always been superb but this is the final blow! Best Action/adventure game that ever 
 made. Dont buy anything without buying this game. The story is just AWESOME like the game. The games 
 are very good bonded with the main story.
  The story
  At Warrior Within, prince defeats dhaka and empress of time, rewrites history. So story of Sands of 
 Time is never happened because there were no sands at that time period. Prince arrives at his home, and 
 sees the captured city. Kaelina, (A. k. a. former empress of time) is captured, prince runs behind her 
 to save her, but vizier kills kaelina and using the sands that appeared, transforms into a sand monster. Prince 
 tries to save her but ehe cant because a guard of vizier throws a chain and holds it on prince's 
 left arm. Then the sands affect guards and prince too, his left arm and chain are now binded together 
 with sands. Prince 'borrows' the dagger of time from vizier, and falls. Then he turns to dark prince 
 and experiences a battle in himself, battle between the good prince and the dark prince. Then he 
 sees farah, who you can remember from sands of time game, she doesnt recognise prince because story 
 of sands of time never happened. They travel together to defeat vizier. Prince finds his father's 
 dead body at a dark building. He uses his father's sword to light the place. Farah is captured by 
 vizier then, prince goes to save her and kills the vizier. Kaelina thanks him and releases him from 
 the chain. But then he sees the 'Wraith' from Warrior Within, the wraith turns into the dark prince. At 
 a mental realm, he chases dark prince. Dark prince plans to lock prince in his realm forever. But 
 farah warns prince and she saves prince. Farah asks the prince how did he know her name. He then 
 begins to tell her the story of the first game, using the same monologue as the introduction and 
 ending of that game, thus bringing the trilogy full circle: "Most people think time is like a river, 
 that flows swift and sure in one direction. But I have seen the face of time, and I can tell you, 
 they are wrong. Time is an ocean in a storm. You may wonder who I am and why I say this. Come, 
 and I will tell you a tale like none you have ever heard...."
  
  I hope 'Sands of Time' movie (2009) will be very good.
  
  10 points to everything about this 
 game! Prince of Persia rules! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kuyt19
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 20, 2008 2:01 pm PT
Review:  Being the third installment in the series begun by Sands of Time, this game has all the elements 
 needed to live up to the expectations bestowed upon it by the first two. It successfully (or at 
 least half-successfully) retained the fairytale storyline and the bright atmosphere from the first 
 game. While most would agree that the second game (Warrior Within) was a bleak attempt to make the 
 Prince look and sound like Russel Crowe, it had a great combat system where you could implement 
 your own sequence of moves using the free-form fighting system. Thus, it comes as no surprise that 
 Two Thrones continued with that. So this game can be seen as a mixture of the first two, but with 
 a unique feeling of it's own.
  
  The beginning might be a little confusing for those who didn't get to unlock the second ending 
 from Warrior Within, since it picked up from there instead of the original (or more common) ending. 
 But that is no problem at all because you slowly get to understand how things came to be as the 
 game progresses. For those without any prior experience with the series, the tutorial at the beginning 
 kept things simple and easy to catch up on.
  
  As mentioned earlier, the game retained the fast-paced free-form fighting system introduced in 
 the second, with a few tweaks here and there. And that's where the game gets interesting. It now 
 comes with the opportunity for performing a stealth kill. Stealth Kills basically consists of a 
 sequence of carefully placed moves which requires precision and timing from the players as responding 
 too quickly or too slowly disrupts the kill. This move is also important in boss fights as well, 
 since it makes killing so much simpler and quicker. In fact, most of the boss fights require you 
 to use this in order to be able to defeat them.
  
  Like the previous games, this one had a good storyline. Fans of open-ended will be disappointed 
 with the linear gameplay. But this helped in keeping a good and tight fairytale like story. The 
 narration, the voice acting from the main characters and the cut-scenes were all beautifully done. 
 As the game progresses, you get to learn about the emotional turmoil the Prince is experience. 
 The hurt of failure, the love for his people and the constant battle with his inner-demon are all 
 presented clearly to the players.
  
  The graphics are really good although those familiar with the series will probably admit that the 
 difference with that of Warrior Within is not too great. The good thing that most will notice is 
 that the developers got rid of the dark and gloomy atmosphere from the second game and instead, 
 went with the bright and shiny feel that was found in the first one. The visuals and details are 
 nicely done, and the cut-scenes really stood out.
  
  All in all, this is a good experience for those into action/fantasy games. The game combines the 
 best features from it's predecessors which makes it a must for the fans of the series. For those 
 that haven't tried the first two, the game, though linear, still provides plenty of action and 
 fun to push you right through the end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: khoofia_pika
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 1, 2008 3:09 am PT
Review:  Prince of Persia has always been recommended as one of the most stunning and innovative games in 
 the hack-n-slash action adventure genre. It has been hailed for its stunning visuals, real-life 
 graphics, movie-like presentation and story and its gory and innovative gameplay. Prince of Persia 
 is often compared with the likes of God of War. But is it justified? Can Prince of Persia actually 
 match the high qualities of the creation of SCEA? 
  
  To that question, I say yes. Prince of Persia: The Two Thrones is almost as good as any God of 
 War game. It has the same breathtaking story, same spectacular presentation, same gory and innovativ 
 e gameplay, same spectacular sound, same brilliant graphics and the same maddening difficulty levels. 
 
  
  POP: TT will please all the hardcore fans of the series. It has everything a gamer would want from 
 it- story, graphics, gameplay, sound, presentation etc. 
  
  The game begins with a breathtaking cutscene when Babylon, the Prince's home is attacked and invaded 
 by the armies of a Dark Wizard- Vizear. Kaileena, the Empress of Time is captured by the forces 
 of Vizear. And so begins our all new adventure.
  
  Get ready as the Prince of Persia takes you through the burning ruins of Babylon, battling enemies, 
 sneaking upon them, walking on walls and cielings, hanging from ropes, jumping across platforms 
 and destroying each and every foe in the way.
  
  The Prince of Persia: The Two Thrones features everything you would expect from it and the previous 
 games- and then some more... 
  
  The Prince is suffering from multiple personality disorder. In short he's schizophrenic. Get ready 
 as you the Prince becomes the Dark Prince and you rip your enemies apart, pierce them with your 
 spiked sword and destroy everything in your way.
  
  In short, as I said in the beginning, the game has everything- gameplay, story, presentation, sound, 
 graphics and everything else a gamer would want. 
  
  Now, players might think that the game is better than any other God of War game, but no, that might 
 not be the opinion of everyone. Those who have played God of War will know that it has everything 
 PoP has and then some more. PoP might not be as good as GoW but it will satisfy your hunger until 
 the next God of War game is out.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: skilled_gamer
Rating: 10
Date: May 17, 2008 5:21 pm PT
Review:  prince of persia the two thrones, full of action, adventure strategy... this game makes u think 
 alot... but u sonner or later figure it out. he has got the coolest moved out of any game charecter 
 made. U get to play as two people in this game, prince of persia nad the dark prince... with over 
 50 hoours worth of game play... u will not be able toput this game away. this was totally a smart 
 move buying it. this game is pretty old and it stil has very nice grapchics. the character look 
 very real, especially on cutscenes. trust me, buying this game will beworth your time... this is 
 the third of a trilogy. u really need to play the first games (sands of time and warrior within) 
 in order to understand the third. this is a very origanal game. took nothing from any other game... 
 every thing is awesome
  did i mention this is the hottest action adventure game ive ever seen 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DBROWN9
Rating: 6
Date: May 17, 2008 7:49 am PT
Review:  I've never played a Prince of Persia game before. On starting this up I was absolutely wowed by 
 the graphics, but this is a typical console port, platform RPG.
  
  The title is let down by the repetitive gameplay. It is incredibly difficult even on the easiest 
 setting, and you end up doing the same bit over and over again. It is incredibly frustrating. It 
 also has a checkpoint save system.
  
  I can understand why there are a lot of good reviews for this game, but it is purely a matter of 
 taste. This had me wanting to throw the computer out of the window. It is the repetitive platforming 
 puzzles which pads this game out.
  
  Graphics are absolutely beautiful, with good character models.
  Sound is also pretty good.
 
  
  If you like Lara Croft style platform/puzzle gaming, then you will love this, but it's certainly 
 not for me.
  
  Graphics 10
  Sound 9
  Stability 9
  Gameplay 2
  
  Overall 6 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hotbodyboy_2006
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 12, 2008 12:43 pm PT
Review:  When i was a kid around 15 yrs back i was not privileged to use the "Video Game". I had a pc at 
 home and had to contend with pc games, you know the 2D ones. I used to play only one game Prince 
 Of Persia. Quite easily i can say one of the greatest 2D games ever to be made for a pc.
  
  Then came the hyped Prince Of Persia 3D which was a total Disastrous Disappointment.
  
  After 
 playing a lot of games i was bored and thought of giving up games to do something else. It was 
 a vacation and i read in some site about a NEW prince of persia game sands of time.
  
  Thought of giving it a try since i was and still am a Die Hard fan of the prince of persia. The 
 game took me by storm and brought back the interest in me. And so i started and finished all the 
 three games of this Legendary franchise.
  
  Coming to Two Thrones. Its the last in the series of the prince of persia triology.
  
  After 
 playing sands of time, my interest grew more after playing warrior within. Warrior Within had everything 
 the combos, story, gore, music etc.
  
  Two Thrones has a new addition of stealth kills, chariot race and nice cool bosses.
  
  My conclusion 
 is that the two games ww and t2t is much better than sot. But if u ask me to choose between the 
 two i would say storywise and music and gameplay wise WW is better.
  
  But two thrones has been made in such a way that i have already played the game 13 times. I have 
 played WW for 14 times and so this itself implies that there is not much difference.
  
  Coming to this game, the gameplay is a STRAIGHT rip off from Warrior Within. Same Combos, but the 
 difference, the slow motion sucks and also all the gore is gone. Big Mistake made by Ubisoft to 
 remove all the realistic elements listening to some dumb ass fans. A new mechanism called Stealth 
 Kill or Speed Kill which has been added to this game makes this game very addictive. Also the fact 
 that you can play using the two princes i. e. Normal Prince & Dark Prince makes the game more interesting.
 
  
  Also another huge disappointment is that the hype that the story created in WW was almost killed 
 in two thrones. A very average story with the quite expected happy ending and the vizier Jaffer 
 looked so horrible : ( I liked the SOT Jaffer better. But again bosses like the GIANT Arena Boss 
 and the Twin Warriors save the game. Also the Chariot Races in this game are damn fun and replayable. 
 The HARD MODE of this game is a JOKE and is the least challenging of any games i have played.
 
  
  Overall a great game. Definitely, if WW is rated No.1, then this game has to be no.2. The only 
 reason some may prefer this game to WW is that it is shorter and is more bright. But unlike WW 
 this game has lots of Graphics Glitches. You can see a layer of water on your screen for eg. Inspite 
 of all these things i have played this game 13 times and would still keep playing it. This game 
 is so replayable that its very difficult to get bored just like WW. Unfortunately Sands Of Time 
 being a great game cannot be replayed much.
  
  I would have rated this game 9. But my love for Prince Of Persia, the Stealth Kills, Dark Prince 
 and the ending boss gameplay really impressed me too much and so i give it a 10/10. Overall a great 
 ENDING to the POP Trilogy. This is the BEST TRILOGY i have ever played in any genre. Check out 
 Gamespot ratings new users if you want. The only game or Trilogy having a rating of 9 & above. 
 All other trilogies or Quadralogies have one game or the other rated 8 or below.
  
  Lastly, may not be the greatest game of PS2. But the trilogy is definitely one of the GREATS that 
 literally OWNS many PC games. I have HUGE HUGE expectations from Prince Of Persia to be released 
 in Spring 2008. Hopefully it should not be a let down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smchacko
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 11, 2008 1:17 pm PT
Review:  ==== Prince of Persia The Two Thrones Review ====
  
  The Two Thrones is a rare type of second sequel, because its actually good. Not much to complain 
 about in any aspect. Yes, the graphics are slightly dated by now, but players will hardly notice; 
 its just plain fun.
  
  The game plays like a mix of Sands of Time and Warrior Within. Combat is fierce like Warrior Within, 
 but the story-book like atmosphere of Sands of Time is retained. Also the prince has shed his "bad-ass" 
 personality and is more like his Sands of Time self.
  
  The dark prince is a blast to play, Speed kills add a polished new way to defeat foes and boss 
 battles are the best in the trilogy. The Prince is still a likable character and he matures, becoming 
 wiser through his journey and the trilogy has a satisfying conclusion. This game is great.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pnkumarmohan
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 15, 2008 11:28 pm PT
Review:  The Prince's acrobatic skills have improved. He is now able to launch himself off walls at 45 degree 
 angles at strategically placed vertical shutters, slide down chutes, and balance on swinging poles, 
 among other things.
  While in Warrior Within the player fights with a sword, in the Two Thrones, much like The Sands 
 of Time, the player fights with the Dagger of Time. As a result the combat is a lot less bloody 
 as the dagger is too short to cut off the heads of his opponents or slice them in half, unless 
 they are weakened first, or attacked in a Speed Kill. The designers have also improved the stealth 
 system. Whereas in the Warrior Within, stealth wasn't an actual gameplay feature but merely an 
 occasional occurrence, stealth can be used excessively in the new game in lieu of normal fighting. 
 Instead of merely being able to do more damage when striking without being seen, The Two Thrones 
 uses a speed-kill system. The system is a lot like the system used in the God of War for boss battles, 
 and also the use of the hidden blade in Assassin's Creed, and allows the Prince to quickly and 
 quietly kill off any enemy not aware of his presence. The player cannot perform a speed kill on 
 one guard if another guard can see it. If the player does not complete the speed kill, the enemy 
 knocks him off and the speed kill fails. It is very useful at times where there is a sand portal, 
 in which the player has the opportunity to kill the portal commander and neutralize the chance 
 of enemy reinforcements coming. The amount of moves or the length of time required depends on how 
 strong the opponents are. However, because of this system, the strangle option as featured in the 
 Warrior Within has been removed. The same system is also used in some of the boss battles. On the 
 other hand, as the prince's personality appears less sadistic and violent than in Warrior Within, 
 the free form fighting system is rather more limited, with the prince not being able to jump off 
 enemies or rebound off a wall when in the air.
  Another change in the gameplay is the fact that every boss needs a specific strategy in order to 
 be beaten, while in the previous games it required nothing more than effective fighting, adding 
 to the variety of the game.
  Furthermore, the Prince takes control of a chariot twice in the game, radically changing the gameplay 
 for a small period of time, where the player has to reach his goal without crashing or being killed 
 by the sand creatures, which try to throw him off.
  The Prince also develops a split personality, known as the Dark Prince, and this alter-ego constantly 
 bickers with him in his mind about right and wrong. At times, the Prince physically transforms 
 into the Dark Prince. These transformations are scripted and not controlled by the player. During 
 these times, however, the Prince retains control of his body, and the player still has control 
 over the character. For the most part, the Prince's dark side is simply an inner voice.
  When controlling the Dark Prince, the player loses the ability to wield a secondary weapon, instead 
 using the "Daggertail", a bladed whip fused to his arm. This opens medium range combat moves (like 
 pulling an enemy closer, then slashing them) and new interactions with the environment (such as 
 swinging off poles to reach a ledge) . The Dark Prince also constantly loses health as a result 
 of the semi-transformation, much like the Sand Wraith from Warrior Within but with eventual death 
 from the loss. He goes back to full health whenever he collects Sand, from either a monster or 
 object. Also, his Daggertail gives him a different button combination for speed kills, in which 
 he strangles his victims. The Prince returns to normal after the player comes in contact with water.
 
  The game itself is relatively short, with players of an average skill level able to complete a 
 single story mode in about ten hours. Compared to the other games of the series, it has a more 
 complex gameplay but less violence than Warrior Within and has a more "cinematic" style, due to 
 the impressive speed kills, the variety of gameplay and the usage of slow motion, which was introduced 
 in Warrior Within. Overall a very good game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mirko4444
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 30, 2008 11:19 am PT
Review:  ntro:
  
  So, the so awaited final game of the Sand Trilogy finally came out. This game comes back to its 
 "original" style. We have our original Prince back, not the pissed-off one from Warrior Within. 
 We have some new moves, a new environment and new enemies. So, let's play!
  
  Story:
  
  This game continues the story of a Prince that only gets in trouble. On the first one (Sands of 
 Time) , the Prince steals the Dagger of Time, and unleashes the Sands of Time, that turn almost 
 everyone into sand monsters. Then, the Prince starts an adventure trying to undo his mistake. On 
 his way, he meets Farah, the daughter of the king he stole the Dagger from. She then joins him, 
 but only to try to get the Dagger back. Along the way, they start to have an emotional bond. At 
 the end of the game, he kills the Vizier (the one that wanted the Sands of Time for evil) but the 
 Prince rewinds time to save Farah that died. So, nothing ever happened, the Vizier is still alive 
 (Farah is too) , and then he goes to the Island of Time (where Warrior Within begins) . He meets 
 Kaileena, the Empress of Time, and brings her to Babylon. That's where this game starts. Obviously, 
 I won't spoil you the story. I just did some background.
  
  Script:
  
  The game's script is good, but could have been better. It shows a Prince that becomes more mature 
 as the game evolves. When he "meets" the Dark Prince, he starts to understand that a warrior doesn't 
 fight for blood, or fun. He fights for honour, for a cause.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  The best part. The gameplay decides if a game is worth playing or not. And believe me, this game's 
 gameplay is awesome. We don't have those endless battles from the Sands of Time. No, they got replaced 
 with Speed Kills. We are introduced to this cool addiction on The Two Thrones. Instead of fighting, 
 you can just use stealth. You sneak behind your enemy, and his death is only some clicks away.
 
  
  This trilogy is known for its puzzles and traps. And they're back for round 3. So, if you like 
 puzzles and running on walls, this game is for you. For some people, this kind of gameplay is frustrating. 
 If you are one of those, stay away from this game, because it is frustrating. On a good way though. 
 So, for some people, this game may become irritating. Be aware of that.
  
  The only thing that isn't good on this game's gameplay is the camera. It may be a serious problem 
 until you know how to deal with it.
  
  Graphics:
  
  Well, the graphics are good. There are some really cool FMVs and the Prince's moves feel smooth 
 and realistic. The environment is beautiful and very detailed, and the characters fit it very well.
 
  
  Sound:
  
  Ubisoft puts the rock CDs back on shelves and brings back those Arabic songs from Sands of Time. 
 The songs are very relaxing, and fit perfectly with the environment. So, basically, the sound sounds 
 good.
  
  Replay Value:
  
  Low, very low Yes, there are some (cool) unlockables, but they're so easy to get, that you'll 
 get them on your first try. And you'll spend like, 7/8 hours to finish this game.
  
  So Rent or Buy?
  
  Well
  
  Prince's game's fans and some random people out there  buy 
 it, because this game is a must for fans, and some non-fans also.
  
  Regular players that only have curiosity about this game  rent it and try it. Then it's your decision.
 
  
  Despite some flaws in this game, it has everything to be an enjoyable experience. Try it, and you 
 won't regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spider-Man_Toi
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 29, 2008 1:12 pm PT
Review:  Prince of Persia the Two thrones is amazing. But you should have a little smart brain to beat the 
 game. The game is all in one , action plus strategy and little bit of romance. The game doesn't 
 get boring but there are some annoying difficulties. For example triple jumps etc especially the 
 timing of the jump. You can carry one optional weapons.
  
  There are no sexual content and bad language. The game play is nice and graphics are smooth. The 
 sound effects are nice especially the Persian sound tracks.
  
  To beat the game easily you should learn different attack combos. One strategy wont do any good. 
 
  
  The game doesn't require high system requirements. An average computer will run the game smoothly.
 
  
  The default setting for the game analog is reciprocal. REMEMBER TO CHANGE ANALOG SETTING TO RECIPROCALS. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: murt2005
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 28, 2008 2:53 pm PT
Review:  best in pop series -------------------best in pop series ----------best in pop series ----------------best 
 in pop series,,, best in pop series -------------------best in pop series ----------best in pop series ----------------best 
 in pop series,,, best in pop series -------------------best in pop series ----------best in pop series ----------------best 
 in pop series,,, best in pop series -------------------best in pop series ----------best in pop series ----------------best 
 in pop series,,, best in pop series -------------------best in pop series ----------best in pop series ----------------best 
 in pop series,,, best in pop series -------------------best in pop series ----------best in pop series ----------------best 
 in pop series,,, best in pop series -------------------best in pop series ----------best in pop series ----------------best 
 in pop series,,, best in pop series -------------------best in pop series ----------best in pop series ----------------best 
 in pop series,,, best in pop series -------------------best in pop series ----------best in pop series ----------------best 
 in pop series,,, best in pop series -------------------best in pop series ----------best in pop series ----------------best 
 in pop series,,, best in pop series -------------------best in pop series ----------best in pop series ----------------best 
 in pop series,,, best in pop series -------------------best in pop series ----------best in pop series ----------------best 
 in pop series,,, best in pop series -------------------best in pop series ----------best in pop series ----------------best 
 in pop series,,, best in pop series -------------------best in pop series ----------best in pop series ----------------best 
 in pop series,,, best in pop series -------------------best in pop series ----------best in pop series ----------------best 
 in pop series,,, best in pop series -------------------best in pop series ----------best in pop series ----------------best 
 in pop series,,, best in pop series -------------------best in pop series ----------best in pop series ----------------best 
 in pop series,,, best in pop series -------------------best in pop series ----------best in pop series ----------------best 
 in pop series,,, best in pop series -------------------best in pop series ----------best in pop series ----------------best 
 in pop series,,, best in pop series -------------------best in pop series ----------best in pop series ----------------best 
 in pop series,,, best in pop series -------------------best in pop series ----------best in pop series ----------------best 
 in pop series,,, best in pop series -------------------best in pop series ----------best in pop series ----------------best 
 in pop series,,, best in pop series -------------------best in pop series ----------best in pop series ----------------best 
 in pop series,,, best in pop series -------------------best in pop series ----------best in pop series ----------------best 
 in pop series,,, best in pop series -------------------best in pop series ----------best in pop series ----------------best 
 in pop series,,, 
::::::

::::::
UserName: baazigar_2000
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 19, 2008 3:46 am PT
Review:  Ah.... now we see the Prince return from his voyages, with Kaileena at his side... we see him back 
 to hi orignal cutey cutey looks and youthful voice (more or less... those sands still knocking about 
 eh???) .. leaving behind all the ravaged prologues that we encountered in Warrior Within..... to come 
 back to home sweet home....... the realm of Babylon!!!!
  
  All is going well..... until the boat truns the corner and we see Bablyon occupied by horirble people 
 who have appeared out of the blue..... and just when it couldnt get worse.... the Prinecs newly bought 
 boat is devasted by a missile, both boat memebers get shipwrecked.... and if things could not get 
 nay worse, the vagabonds kidnap Kaileena and take her to...... THE VIZIER?!??!?! What the heck is 
 he doing in these parts??? No doubt getting his own back on the Prince.......
  
  Wait....... when the Prince eventually meets up with the Vizier after a heavy session of bounds, 
 leaps and slahses....... he is again done for by one of the henchmen, who wraps a strange object 
 around the Princes arm.... A few moments later, the Vizier stabs Kaileena, who vansihes into thin 
 air and sends a shower of sand all throughout Babylon.... so was she human after all then??? hmmm....... no 
 one ever told the Prince that love would not be on his tarot cards lately.... ah well..... the sand 
 is somehow sucked into the Prince, and he develops a split personality...... whihc may come in handy 
 later in the game.....
  
  
  Again we see the Prince unleash frantic free from frighting frenzy fits..... hah, that took a lungful 
 to explian!!!! You also have the abilty to do speed kills now, that get rid of enemies swiftly 
 at various occasions...... As well as obatin a wide variety of swords and power ups...... you will 
 ahve to play to find out, as I am only part-way through the game..... the scenery is now mnore beautfil 
 than Warrior Within, with some outdooor adventures as welll as those within scary chambers....
 
  
  The characters are all wel and good..... the bosses are even bigger, and take a lot of jumping and 
 hitting to thwart....... the other stooges are varying too...... each with their own weaponary and 
 skills (though they talk quite rarely... a lesson learned from thier former gang members perhaps???... i. e. 
 the more you babble, the more you get yourself skewered?????) As well as the unexpected Vizier... we 
 also have the unexpected arrival of another, more likeable character......... ah.... not telling 
 you!!!! u will see when you play........ but more evidently, theres the dark Prince, who comes about 
 at certain stages of the game..... with this guy you can use the dagger and daggertail whip only...... as 
 well as reach parts of the environment that the normal happy Prince cannot reach....
  
  The music and sound effects are very good... now we see more of a Middle-Eastern/Asian mix of music, 
 as well as the occaional vocals to spice things up a bit...... also, its good to see the prince 
 scream and shout like he used to when he struck, got struck, and fell off ledeges (rather than 
 the horrifying screams and herat thumping reamrks he made throughout the game) ....
  
  Again.... this game really had me glued to the screen... and the fact that it actaully worked on 
 my PC DVD drive was amazing..... unlike other games e. g. Cold Fear, Beyond Good and Evil , and Blood 
 Omen 2, to name but a few...... I am reallylloving it and look forward to see how it all ends up!!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blurrypixel
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 11, 2008 8:22 am PT
Review:  What's to like:
  - Addictive
  - Fast reload times
  - Same likable architectural puzzles 
  - Same satisfying combat found in WW
  - Fast & fun chariot 
 rides
  - New stealth option available
  - Hilarious protagonist
  - Charismatic characters
  - Epic Boss Fights
  - Good movie CGs
  - Great story
  - Great 
 sound track
  - Great Narration and Voice-overs
  - Great graphics (environments and views)
  - Great animations
  - Great epilogue
  
  What 
 you may not like:
  - Constant fighting with the camera
  - Low polycount and low res textures on character models 
  - Main weapon is a dagger instead 
 of a longer sword
  - Easier than WW
  - Less blood than WW
  - More violent than its predecessors
  - Some Boss Fights rely on 'click' timing
  - Last of 
 the trilogy :* (
  
  
  Note: 
  This review contains references and spoilers about the previous 2 titles of the Prince of Persia 
 Trilogy (Sands of Time and Warrior Within) . 
  
  Both previous titles are really worth playing. Please consider giving them a try before considering 
 this title, it will make the experience that much more fulfilling.
  
  SOT = Sands of Time (First title)
  WW = Warrior Within (Sequel)
  
  Story - Babylon burns!
 
  The story picks up exactly where Warrior Within left it. You are on a boat on your way back to 
 Babylon with Kaileena (this means the game assumes you were able to get the 'good' ending from 
 WW) .
  
  Though, while Babylon is in flames, your boat gets attacked and you wind up separated from her.
 
  
  From that point, the story will unfold very nicely with a few twists and turns.
  
  There is a considerate amount of narration in the game. She will tell you about the Prince's progress 
 and what he is going through. There is also a lot of conversation between the different characters. 
 The actual lines are usually just plain fun and hilarious at times. This adds a lot to the appreciation 
 meter of this title.
  
  Prince of Persia: The Two Thrones will answer all your questions in a very fairy tale-like, yet 
 climactic ending. If you allow your mind to bend a little over the timeline of events, you will 
 enjoy the many references to the previous titles, SOT and WW.
  
  
  Game - Fast paced action
  
  Like its predecessors, the game orbits around solving architectural 
 puzzles and defeating pockets of sand monsters.
  
  New additions to the game are:
  
  Chariot rides
  There are only a few of them, but they can really add to the fun factor. First 
 of all you can only control your chariot by stearing it left or right. You cannot slow it down. 
 This might come as a challenge for some as some turns have to be planned ahead. Sand monsters will 
 also try to ambush you / get on your chariot / block your path and what not.
  
  Stealth
  Stealth is a very neat addition to your combat options. It is not mandatory to use it. Basically, 
 you sneak up to your enemies and when the screen flashes, you press the E key and from that point, 
 you will need to have close to perfect click timing in order to finish your enemy off. The backstab 
 can take up to 5 hits in order to be successful. Also, sometimes one attack can kill up to 3 sand 
 monsters -- the whole animation is very satisfying. Still, remember that it can be avoided altogether 
 if you really wish to fight them instead.
  
  Boss Fights
  Boss fights were also part of Warrior Within. Though, in this version, the Bosses are more "epic" 
 and also scripted. This means that for some of them, you won't rely much on your combat skills, 
 just like WW, to bring them down. There is only 1 fight that really requires good combat skills 
 to defeat it. The remaining are mostly dealt by the stealth mode where you need to time your clicks 
 in order to progress through the Boss fight.
  
  Alter-Ego
  You will also play another character with a totally different attitude and a different set of weapons. 
 He uses a whip (a la Ivy in Soul Calibur if you know her) . That whip is very powerful and can take 
 down many enemies very quickly. This come with a price though: your health consistently drops down 
 until you get another Sand (which heals you back to full) . So each time you get to play as this 
 character, you need to do your work quickly or you will die. This character can also sneak up and 
 trigger some very satisfying choke-kills.
  
  Environment: Top-Down Chains
  In addition to the known beams, poles and ropes, top-down chains have been added to the levels. 
 Those chains not only allow you to make your way down in a ninja-style position (head down with 
 feet up around the chain) but also give you a good starting point to drop and start a sneak attack. 
 
  
  Environment: Wall grates
  Also new and very much used are the wall grates. Basically, you can now dig your dagger in those 
 wall grates and stay stationary on the wall. By selecting a side, you can swing yourself and wall-run 
 for a little while. They take some time to get used to as you need to be holding the right mouse 
 button down while hitting the left one in order to dig your dagger in.
  
  Environment: Wall jumping plates
  While wall-running, you can walk over those plates and if you 
 jump at the same time, you will be thrown 45 degrees instead of perpendicular to the wall.
  
  Environment: Narrow walls
  By jumping in the middle of two close walls, you get to hold yourself 
 by pushing toward them. Once squeezed between them, you can go up or down. Those are used mostly 
 to drop on your enemies and trigger a sneak attack.
  
  Sand credits
  During your adventure, you will accumulate sand credits. They allow you to unlock the extras. Know 
 though that if you finish the game, they all seem to become accessible. So they become a bit useless 
 if you finish the game.
  
  Maps
  Unlike its predecessor, every level is new, i. e. you won't be revisiting maps you've already been 
 to.
  
  Also, the "hidden" health upgrades are considerably easier to find this time around.
  
  
 
  Sound  Previous titles are merged
  The Indian sound track is back with a rocking flavor added to it. It does fit the game perfectly 
 but it doesn't pump you as much as its predecessor. On the other hand, every piece of music and 
 sound effect is just top quality. 
  
  
  Combat - Better tips, better fights
  Although WW introduced a fairly good amount of new combat moves, it wasn't that easy to remember 
 them all. In this title, there is always a reminder of a combo that can be used each time you pick 
 up a secondary weapon. This is very useful as it makes you want to try them and makes you completely 
 addicted to some of them.
  
  The reach is also shorter because of the dagger so enemies can now hit you before you can if you 
 are not careful. Blocking is more important in this game.
  
  The amount of save points is frequent and therefore makes the game considerably easier than WW, 
 but it's not a flaw by itself.
  
  
  Conclusion  Cry.
  This is by far the best trilogy that is available today. No other pack actually delivers as much 
 gameplay innovation, story-development and all around _great_ games.
  
  If you are actually hesitating in playing those after the years, I would completely suggest that 
 you give this trilogy a try. The graphics are still good and the package is just top quality.
 
  
  You will play this title, enjoy the great ending and feel sad right after, knowing there won't 
 be anymore of the great tale that is the Prince of Persia.
  
  
  9.5/10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: PalatialRegalia
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 18, 2008 9:51 am PT
Review:  The Two Thrones, you can play it through the first time and it will rock, again its ok and again 
 you will be sick of it. You walk around, run on walls, swing from poles, jump from cliff to cliff. 
 It's really fun the first time because your just learning combos and getting to know the story. 
 Once you play you will learn that the weapon choice is slim, a few blades and an axe. Enemy's get 
 really old, never have new tricks, same fight everytime. You dont have many choices either in game, 
 like where to go? Its a strict story, cant explore around those "big" cities. I would be nicer 
 and this would be a great game but now since "Assasins Creed" came out where you can pretty much 
 do everything in this game and more this just seems, well is, yesterdays news. Dont get me wrong, 
 it was fun at first and i loved it, but got old and then i saw the new game and it died. You turn 
 from dark prince to prince over and over again and its the same scene, nothing new, so it gets 
 annoying and when you die you have to sit throught long scene again and fight those 20 enemy's 
 again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nevermindwho
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 17, 2008 12:22 am PT
Review:  Prince of Persia : the two thrones is the best game of the series!!! The graphics are perfect, 
 you can see every detail of the Prince and everything surrounding him!!! 
  
  The sounds are as perfect as the graphics!!! 
  
  I love the gameplay, it is very interesting 
 and I haven't noticed any glitches while I was playing! 
  
  The game is also quite hard and once you are stuck you are stuck for quite a long time!!! (unless 
 you look at the walkthrough) 
  
  There is no cheats for this games, but there is quite a lot of patches, so the ''cheaters'' will 
 have to download the patches!!! 
  
  I love this game!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hari006
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 15, 2008 9:37 am PT
Review:  The Prince of Persia, a seasoned warrior, returns from the Island of Time to Babylon with his love, 
 Kaileena. Instead of the peace that he longs for, he finds his homeland ravaged by war and the 
 kingdom turned against him. The Prince is rapidly captured and Kaileena has no choice but to sacrifice 
 herself and unleash the Sands of Time in order to save him. Now cast out on the streets and hunted 
 as a fugitive, the Prince soon discovers that past battles have given rise to a deadly Dark Prince, 
 whose spirit gradually possesses him.
  
  The Game play is still cool and excellent as it was in the previous two POP Games. The Prince can 
 Run on walls, hanging on curtains, swinging on poles and do vertical jumps in a perfect manner. A 
 Newest addition to the Prince's moves is a brand new speed kill System. This quick kill fight System 
 is awesome and very exciting to watch. You have to use a little stealth to perform that System. Its 
 easy once you get used to it. A good fun too. Besides the Speed kill System, we have also the Warrior 
 Within's free form fighting system. This time Prince is performing the moves very smoothly. For the 
 first time ever in a POP franchise, we have a fully new second playable character known as the "Dark 
 Prince". The Dark Prince is the evil version of the Prince Of Persia. He is very selfish character, an 
 alternate personality of our favorite hero. The Dark Prince uses his whip-like chain weapon in order 
 to perform environmental moves and to kill the enemies. There also huge and challenging bosses in 
 the game. The boss fights are very unique. You have to kill each boss with a different strategy. Its 
 a good fun to kill bosses with different techniques. One more feature is a chariot race. This is 
 also a unique addition to the game play. Its very fast-paced and moves around beautiful environments, somehow 
 difficult to control too. The Controls are very responsive, fast and easy to play. You can play with 
 full-keyboard after setting the buttons right. The Graphics and enviousness's/locations of the game 
 are superb. One thing I have ti higly point out here is about the High-Quality cinematic which are 
 mind-blowing, more improved and real than previous versions, However there is still a big difference 
 b/w High-Quality Cut scenes and the In-game Cut scenes. The Babylon city is beautiful and rich. The 
 Prince moves all around the city including ancient streets, undergrounds, rooftops and in the Palace (The 
 Tower of babel) which is also very much open. The Prince also visits the famous Hanging Garden.
 
  The Story of the Game is satisfying, All the unfinished holes has been filled up Our favorite Character 
 and the Prince's love Princess Farah has made a return into the game with a good purpose. She is 
 now a bit changed, Brave girl, but still she is kind and good-natured. That is good to see. You can 
 also find out about the King Shara man in the game which is a good experience and a surprise. The 
 Great POP TSOT storytelling feature is back in the game but this time our storyteller is Kaillena 
 who is a nice person of course. The Prince and Farah work together in the game in some part not 
 in the whole part. The script has a bit SOT-like cuteness but still it was not perfect because the 
 game isn't based on a total Romantic feel like SOT in my opinion. Overall it was satisfying and 
 makes us happy. The Sound of the game is good and the Music is Marvelous, The Rock music has gone 
 and good old ancient music is back in the game, the Credit song is very good. I think the music is 
 best in the whole POP trilogy. Voice-acting is reflecting a very young heroes however which is not 
 the case.
  The Final word is that Prince Of Persia the Two Thrones is an excellent game with great environments 
 puzzles and moves. The best edition in the game is the New speed kill System and a Wide-Open City 
 with great Locations. The Game comprises of best features of Sands of Time and W warrior Within. However, This 
 game is more like Sands of time than Warrior Within. The Only problem in the game was a lack of 
 twists or turning points in the storyline which is pretty straightforward. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mircea_calarasu
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 3, 2008 9:46 am PT
Review:  Finally the third title of POP series is here . Now , there are bad
  and good news . The good news are that everything is a lot improved .
  POP 3 reminds you the 
 glory of the first title . Some new features are added in the game . Now the prince becomes something 
 like a ninja . He can kill
  easy his opponents with his dagger . If you are in good spots, you can kill
  them with quick 
 kills . You can understand when its the time cause the
  screen is shinning. When you push the right button , the prince shows his talent in tricks in order 
 to kill the enemy . But , its not that easy cause it will came the moment that you have to push 
 again the button and
  if you hit it in the wrong time , things do not how as you hope and the enemy hits you . If you 
 don 't want to get in that trouble , you can kill
  them with the old fashion way . Also , when you do "matrix" on the wall,
  there are some spots 
 that you can stick your dagger and stay put or some
  spots that you can push the jump button and go in a spot you couln't reach .That helps the prince 
 to make long distances .The only thing wrong is that things are not that difficult as they used 
 to be .Especially the leaders are peace of cake .None or less , its a great game . Now its the 
 time for the bad news . The bad news are that the POP series are over (Noooooooooooo...) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lorddessan91
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 2, 2008 8:51 am PT
Review:  ... that there is such game as this. It's so original and so fun, I couldn't stop paying it, it sucks 
 you in right from the beginning. I know one boy... he played the game from star to finish just 16-17 
 times and he still want to to play. The graphics and the sounds of the game are just right and very 
 cool actually. But as every PoP the most good things are the combos, there are so many combos and 
 attacks... but the most like thing is the speed kill, that's, perhaps, the most COOL thing... The whole 
 story is also perfect and that turning prince-dark prince makes the game very interesting. The attacks 
 of the dark prince of course are very strong ,because your health goes low every second, and you 
 need to be quick if you don't want to die often. But the bad thing is that the game is short. That's 
 not normal for PoP-series... Also the puzzles are not so difficult and the blood of the enemies 
 is missing... Yes it's not so brutal as Warrior Within, but I really recommend it to anyone 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pupadump
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 24, 2007 5:32 pm PT
Review:  Loved the graphics the sound and all of that stuff but when i was playing it, it seemed like i 
 was playing the same seen 10 times then finally getting to the next one, this is why i don't think 
 this game's gameplay is smooth and fun, just annoying and frustrating. Hated enemy fights boring 
 and if you died, you had to start that 20 enemy long fight ALL over again! 
  One of the worst things about it was how short the game was, yes their was alot of times where 
 you would have to start a long fight over again but there was definently not enough gameplay and 
 plus there was only one type of game play too.
  Liked the sound graphics and desings but, lacked alot of gameplay and it was very frustrating too. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: filaria
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 11, 2007 9:20 am PT
Review:  t2t has been one of the best games that i've played this year in fact one of the best ever. Every 
 elemnt of the POP series was refined n implemented perfectly in The Two Thrones. The story was superb, the 
 music was back to normal from the Hard Rock of Warrior Within which at times really got me irritated. The 
 difficulty was just right as compared to the other 2 titles, Sands of time was very easy n Warrior 
 Within was a bit harder n annoying considering all those Dahaka Chases n going back n forth in 
 time really made me time sick. Though WW had filed up the void in sands of time it also added in 
 a bit too much.... the gameplay was excessively long.... Gamespot describes it as 'satisfyingly long'.... I 
 on the other hand beg to differ. Heres where t2t comes in to save the day.... it wasnt too short 
 or too long... for me t2t was long enough.
  
  Probably the best part about the gameplay was the introduction of the speed kill system. This made 
 the game easier while still retaining the element of fun in the gameplay, there quite enjoyable.... n 
 this is also made use in 3 out of 4 bossfights. U have to use speed kills against Kompla, The Twins 
 n The Vizier (Bosses) .... Mahasti was a non speed kill boss... Boss Fights r good though the last 
 2 of them are epic.... EPIC PAIN IN THE BUTT THAT IS..... specially the 3 part fight against the 
 Vizier.. u hv to b really lucky to get through that in the first go.
  
  Chariots are the kind of things u dont get to ride in every game but u get em in t2t..... riding 
 the chariots was like 'Need for Speed: The Medieval Age'. The chariots were however shockingly weak 
 considering the fact that it shattered to bits pretty easily on collision n there was no way to 
 stop the chariots i. e. no accelerate/deccelerate options.... u cud only move it right n left kinda 
 arcade like... However fightin off enemies while ridin it was cool. Manueverin the chariot round 
 some corners was tough at times. O and takin about ridin chariots u also get to take a ride on a 
 giant beast.... at the beginnin it will look like a boss fight but will end up as a boss ride: ) )
 
  
  Now the best part of the entire game-The Dark Prince! Playing as The Prince's 'alter ego' was a 
 hell lot more fun than to play as the Prince himself. The Dark Prince using the daggertail comprised 
 the best moments of the game. He is of course a Sand Wraith variant n so u will hv ur health constantly 
 fading which can b replenished by sand (surprise surprise!) the dark prince's weakness is water he'll 
 convert back to the original if he touches it.
  
  Return of some old characters good n bad, new gameplay elements, pretty decent looking gfx, an excellent 
 sountrack, this n much more make t2t an excellent game n one of the most njoyable ones out there 
 n the best in the POP series.... anybody out there puttin off this game, dont wait any longer.... this 
 game wud make an excellent addition to nebody's collection...
  
  The series ends perfectly with t2t, no dissappointments whatsoever in terms of the storyline.
 
  
  (One thing i didnt like in the game was the Prince in the cinematics.... he looked different frm 
 the WW one n very horrible... n the last scene showing the Prince in Sands of Time made him look 
 preposturously fat....-0.5 for that) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gauravfox
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 27, 2007 11:50 am PT
Review:  Prince Of Persia: The Two Thrones. The 3rd part of the POP sequel is actually a conclusion to the 
 previous parts. The graphics are awesome, has been keeping up to the previous 2 episodes. The environments 
 are something to look out for... i mean the designers have put in to the finest detail, n the palaces 
 n the surrounding city is just too good... you will never get bored of going through the places 
 when u try out the game for the second time... trust me..! The Prince is handsome as always..! The 
 music and the sound effects are pretty cool... The game play is good... it has its level of difficulty 
 and keeps you going.. the learning curves need some time, the only way to enjoy the combat is by 
 trying out all of the Prince's moves while in a fight. The acrobats needed to pass a level is really 
 cool..! but the only annoying part are the puzzles that needs solving... it kinda kills all the 
 adrenalin. There are a few minor glitches during the cut-scenes, but what the heck..! This is an 
 instant classic n is a collectors game along with the previous parts..... Enjoy...! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adityafunda
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 18, 2007 11:54 am PT
Review:  Seldom has a game series been so fantastic.
  Very involved storyline, excellent gameplay and the newly added Stealth attacks takes the POP legacy 
 leaps forward.
  If one gets bored of stealth attacks and likes to face man-o-man, it's much more fun than previous 
 two.
  Two Thrones has much better look to the game, probably coz most of the fights are in streets or 
 rooftops which are much brighter than warrior within which despite of being excellent in it's own 
 sense, had a darker environment sometimes.
  another good thing about it is that the secondary weapons are much more powerful, like the spiked 
 mace we get is very deadly in a surrounded position.
  I give it 9.5 instead of 10 as i feel it needed more challenge from the &gt;7foot monsters. maybe 
 coz of the narrowness of streets or small sizes of rooms, the number of enemies is kept less.
 
  Still a superb game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dragomirb
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 14, 2007 10:24 am PT
Review:  Great game for Prince of Persia veterans like me but a little bit easier than the previous two. 
 I played it with a gamepad which is surely a must in order to fully enjoy the game. The graphics 
 are really great and I liked the soundtrack very much too. The fighting combos are very spectacular 
 but some of them are quite difficult to perform. And the secondary weapon (sword, axe etc.) brakes 
 only after 5 or 6 hits. It is also very nice that the other Prince has his own fighting style but 
 his decreasing health makes it quite difficult to play with him. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SirTwilight
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 13, 2007 2:45 pm PT
Review:  The two thrones is quite a nice game, done with quailty. Yet, in contrast to what other people 
 say, i think it is not even nearly good as Warrior Within.
  In my opinion, former game was better in nearly all aspects, despite the new features in The Two 
 Thrones.
  Enemy designs &amp; diversity, behavior of prince, story, in fight taunts, boss fights, musical 
 score, feel of game, extras, it was all better i think. I think boss fights in Two Thrones were 
 quite ridiculous, like you have to hit x, y times to be able to hurt z, or even get to ride an monster 
 you defeated and avoid to hit walls with it. Speed kill is a nice thing but neccesity to include 
 stealth in games small environments make monsters look silly. They do not react you when you are 
 loudly wall running or pole swinging a bit above them or when you speed kill their four fellows 
 right behind them. They also do not attack you when you hang from a ledge in front of them, we 
 sure know that is not because of chivalry...! They would send us flying down in Warrior Within, 
 and won't forget insulting while we fall. Another problem with Speed Kill is it's inclusion in 
 boss fights, in previous game they were mostly fights , but now, you have to do time it right tricks 
 to win along with fighting.
  Weapon diversity also suffered greatly, weapon racks gives nearly only one type of axe, sword or 
 mace. One more thing about this issue is that we had weapon gallery in the first game, there were 
 both beautiful images and stat information of those weapons there, which was a great extra i think.
 
  Speaking of weapons, i also preferred a sword as primary weapon, in game dagger lacks swords effectiveness 
 not only aestatically, but also in figting effectiveness. Because primary attack only combos now 
 do much less damage and has far less reach, we don't have press and hold mighthy blow with it to 
 attack enemies or break walls anymore.
  I also loved the metal + oriental musical theme, it was great, and was greatly atmospherical while 
 fighting. But it's ok, as there's no rule that tells everyone must like that kind of musical theme.
 
  I also loved to try to reach hard to go places to get new artwork, instead of collecting sand 
 credits.
  Chariot rides were the worst part! Game developers should rethink such nonsenses! Including such 
 things that are so far from games own theme and engine ends up disappointing, and even boring. 
 If there were checkpoints along road this could be less disappointing. Ok, in games like battlefield 
 series or operation flashpoint, we can be navy, air force, tanks, cars, and infantry at the same 
 game, and with very good results. But these games gameplay and engines are suitable for this. But 
 when we get to tank levels in Call of Duty series or dive bomber level in Medal of Honor : Pacific 
 Assault, they were simply awkward and even boring. I think prince's babylon sightseeing chariot 
 tour is not different from them.
  All in all, in Warrior Within i saw the prince as a greater character in game. But here i just 
 played him, character didn't felt like some charismatic hero this time.
  Still, The Two Thrones is a really nice game, with good levels, good action, nice story. Some bad 
 bugs of it's predessor fixed, nice features like speed kill added, already beautiful graphics of 
 Warrior Within improved. New interactible objects added to gameplay and there were more interestin 
 puzzles. But in my opinion, Warrior Within was a much sweeter game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pagano
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 3, 2007 4:07 am PT
Review:  To me its quite hard to get the story, because i haven't played sands of time and warrior within. 
 My fault. Now i'm tracking those 2 games, so i can write a better review.
  
  So far i've seen, how my boyfriend played it 4 times through. I have played it 2 times. And one 
 time on psp, but there is much to finish. I have to tell you, that to me playing on psp was much 
 easier than on pc. (Although i'm a pc-girl) .
  
  I'm really impressed with the graphics. A bit yellow, but not disturbing (like in NFSMW) .
  Gameplay 
 is great! After 2 hours playing feels like walking on ground is a waste of time :D I always want 
 to run along in walls and to another great acrobatic tricks what prince does. PoP would be more 
 fun, if there were more traps and things to too wrong. To me its all a walk-trough. Almost every 
 time doing a new move you can see what you need to too next. Ubisoft has choose write songs. And 
 it makes the game more nervous, when running in quiet and suddenly when attacking, song starts. 
 Learning to play takes about 30min. Its not too hard. Just right ;)
  
  For those who like adventure games, must like Prince of Persia series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pako_adrian
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 23, 2007 8:48 am PT
Review:  I`ll start by saying that Ubi-soft really outdone themselves with The Two Thrones. All the high 
 points of the Prince of Persia are preserved perfectly: extremely fluent game play, an almost perfect 
 control mechanism (even using a keyboard ) , slick graphics and very good story line plus in addition 
 to the previous games in the series the game is well balanced between extreme acrobatic trials, puzzles 
 and a heavy fighting. Regarding this las remark, my opinion is that Sand of Time was centered too 
 much on the acrobatic and puzzle part and too little a... nd on fighting, on the other hand Warrior 
 Within was exactly de opposite relying on heavy duty fighting involving numerous combos but too 
 little puzzles and acrobatic trials. This being said I repeat: The Two Thrones is very well balanced 
 between all these elements. Now that i made the game sound so perfect let talk about the thing that 
 don`t make it so. First thing that bothered me in all the games in the series not just this one 
 is the very low replay value of the game, meaning once you`ve finished the game and you know how 
 the story ends, you don`t really want to just start over and do it again. Second and last bad thing 
 is something the game spot reviewer also pointed out and that is that: Certain scenes rely too 
 much on trial and error .And this concludes my review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trafalet
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 14, 2007 9:28 am PT
Review:  I didn't played the other two games (please don't blame me!) but this one is a masterpiece! The 
 story is one of the most original I've ever heard, and the Prince... a charismatic character. Of 
 course, the game has some issues. The camera , too lazy for an action-adventure might give you some 
 reasons to throw the mouse over the window. Yeah I know the game is warning us about that before 
 we start the installation but I can't afford a gamepad yet so the old control is my only option. Despite 
 all the problems, Prince of Persia The Two Thrones is a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: imurtaza
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 6, 2007 4:45 am PT
Review:  i have just installed the game and it is looking amazing, brilliant, fabulous and mind blowing. sands 
 of time was also cool but is is seeming damn hot. i am gonna enjoy it. it is really worth buying. rush 
 to nearest store for it. now. i have just installed the game and it is looking amazing, brilliant, fabulous 
 and mind blowing. sands of time was also cool but is is seeming damn hot. i am gonna enjoy it. it 
 is really worth buying. rush to nearest store for it. now. i have just installed the game and it is 
 looking amazing, brilliant, fabulous and mind blowing. sands of time was also cool but is is seeming 
 damn hot. i am gonna enjoy it. it is really worth buying. rush to nearest store for it. now. i have 
 just installed the game and it is looking amazing, brilliant, fabulous and mind blowing. sands of 
 time was also cool but is is seeming damn hot. i am gonna enjoy it. it is really worth buying. rush 
 to nearest store for it. now. i have just installed the game and it is looking amazing, brilliant, fabulous 
 and mind blowing. sands of time was also cool but is is seeming damn hot. i am gonna enjoy it. it 
 is really worth buying. rush to nearest store for it. now. i have just installed the game and it is 
 looking amazing, brilliant, fabulous and mind blowing. sands of time was also cool but is is seeming 
 damn hot. i am gonna enjoy it. it is really worth buying. rush to nearest store for it. now. i have 
 just installed the game and it is looking amazing, brilliant, fabulous and mind blowing. sands of 
 time was also cool but is is seeming damn hot. i am gonna enjoy it. it is really worth buying. rush 
 to nearest store for it. now. i have just installed the game and it is looking amazing, brilliant, fabulous 
 and mind blowing. sands of time was also cool but is is seeming damn hot. i am gonna enjoy it. it 
 is really worth buying. rush to nearest store for it. now. i have just installed the game and it is 
 looking amazing, brilliant, fabulous and mind blowing. sands of time was also cool but is is seeming 
 damn hot. i am gonna enjoy it. it is really worth buying. rush to nearest store for it. now. i have 
 just installed the game and it is looking amazing, brilliant, fabulous and mind blowing. sands of 
 time was also cool but is is seeming damn hot. i am gonna enjoy it. it is really worth buying. rush 
 to nearest store for it. now. i have just installed the game and it is looking amazing, brilliant, fabulous 
 and mind blowing. sands of time was also cool but is is seeming damn hot. i am gonna enjoy it. it 
 is really worth buying. rush to nearest store for it. now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1_2_3lion
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 31, 2007 10:18 am PT
Review:  this game ,the best game , for me and after you try it for you tooo this game is amazing and toooooo 
 awsome fun and advuntuer and and action at the same time it is tooo good and will make you have 
 the feeling of challnge trust me i have never seen a game like this before and also i think after 
 download the demo from here to try it and then you will see that it is from the best games you 
 have ever seen before espicallyv when you try the dark prince it is very gooooood game try it and 
 promise me it wont wast your time it is a nice game it is only niceeeeee vry goood and rocks and 
 if you tried it with the highst res and graphics and with a pc gamepad it say rockkkkkkk..... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hanseltroy
Rating: 2
Date: Aug 31, 2007 1:26 am PT
Review:  Simply a game of trial and error... where's the FUN in that?! Traps and obstacles are unbelievably 
 stupid and were made just to make the game a lot more miserable... yeah it has good graphics and 
 story... but man, a game is supposed to be FUN playing and not annoying or frustrating! Playing 
 this game requires a lot of patience.. and i mean A LOT! Those BUMS who have nothing to do all 
 day might find this game nice for them... but it's not for everybody. It wastes too much of my 
 time because of the trial and error part.. which is pretty much what the game is all about... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stef_2792
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 21, 2007 3:36 pm PT
Review:  I love this game!!!.... I simply love it!! it's great.... a perfect 10 :P.... the graphics are very 
 nice and the game play is smooth.... and don't even get me started on the fast kill ability and 
 environment puzzles!!!!.... overall the game is lots of fun and you shouldn't miss it !!! I played 
 Prince of Persia : Sand of Time and although it has nice it doesn't compare to this one :) Another 
 thing that I liked about the game are the boss fights each with a trick of it&amp;#8217; s self! 
 All and all if you like action adventure games this is a must have !!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: umer_fawi
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 5, 2007 8:35 pm PT
Review:  In this installment of Prince of Persia UBISOFT brings the whole new story, outclass gameplay of 
 prince as well as dark prince.
  Basically the story of The Two Thrones is Prince returning to babylon from the island of time with 
 beautiful Kaileena as his new lover (I think that this may be confusing for those who didn't see 
 the ending of Warrior Within) , So they pull the harbor at babylon but suddenly enimies start attacking 
 to thier ship and their ship is wrecked and the Kaileena is capture by the enemies, but it was 
 too late they killed Kaileena (i really feel very sorry for her) , Now the Prince must battle again 
 to regain his kingdom and specially the avenge for kaileena's Death 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frank_123
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 2, 2007 12:21 pm PT
Review:  These new features range from a new mode of combat.. stealthy .. to different new ways to move 
 around the enormous amount of obstacles that happen to be in your way every time you look ahead. 
 The stealth part of the game is really interesting.. you get to see an animation every time you 
 press the secondary weapon attack key in witch at different times you will need to press the Main 
 Attack Button to perform a blow with your dagger over your enemy. If you miss to press the button 
 in that second and a half in witch you are supposed to.. (you know when cause the animation slows 
 down for a second, goes black and white and the dagger shines) the enemy will block your attack 
 and throw you the hell away.. BUT if you had the chance of at least connect one or more blows in 
 the sequence before having been block.. then the enemy will have it's life diminished and you'll 
 be able to kill him/her/it easier. You can do this stealth attack sometimes from poles, walls, 
 the ground.. when your enemy is giving you his back and no one else is seeing you either.
  
  There is a new way of hanging on a wall.. you get to see this square on the walls in witch 
 you can put your dagger to get a holding point.. you just press the main attack button when you 
 are near it either when jumping or walking on the walls.
  There are also this new wooden tables on the walls that you press when walking over the and if 
 you press the Jump button you'll be able to jump diagonally from one wall to the other or from 
 a wall to some other thing.
  
  Concerning battle.. there isn't much new.. one weapon and to weapon combos.. grabbing.. the best 
 way is jumping over them and attack over and over till they're dead.. but.. i believe there have 
 been new moves added.. if you like to be one of those combat freaks that like being unbeatable 
 and know every special move.. i think there might be new stuff for you to try out although i don't 
 really think there is much.
  
  Enemies will be able in some cases to go over a sand ring, if there is, and call for support.. 
 so if you don't kill the chief (cause he is the only one who can call) who is in different clothes.. 
 he will go over the ring, call back up.. and when you kill one.. one will come from this ring.. 
 i think the back up are 3.. so.. you kill one.. one more comes.. when you kill them all you'll 
 be able to go over the ring.. use your dagger and get new moves.. new sand powers.. more sand tanks 
 or a lot of credits (I have NO idea what the credits are for.. but you get them)
  
  I don't wanna spoil any part of the story.. but you get to play as a different character.. YOU.. 
 but darker.. you have an inner voice that is.. some kind of repressed feeling for destruction and 
 violent, senseless killing.
  With this character you are able to use a chain to get further when walking on walls or.. to jump 
 and throw it over poles to get to the really far other side. Really powerful this new you is.. 
 but as a curse for those powers you loose health gradually witch you recover by getting sands from 
 enemies or from objects that you break (Almost all objects have sands) .
  You turn in different places not willingly and you go back to your normal state after getting to 
 a watter pool or some place with a watter source. To wrap it up.. monsters.. there are few new.. 
 in those few we count.. an archer.. this ghouls or large goblins.. whose weakness is light.. and 
 easier to kill under it.. hounds that i believe were in Warrior Within.. but i can't remember.. 
 and.. the bosses.. there are.. 2 big bosses really.. a fast sand female monster.. and a big weird 
 rocky thing who you need to use the stealth hitting system with although he can see you.. it's 
 just to have great animations when killing him..
  Of course you have the final boss who i Know you'll figure out few minutes after starting the game.
 
  
  Great game indeed.. worth playing.. oh! and you get to see Farah again. :)
  
  Thx for reading.. And good luck with the prince.
  
  Leon 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bulat999
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 30, 2007 11:23 pm PT
Review:  Prince of Persia: The Two Thrones brings us all the enjoyment of solving environmental puzzles 
 for which the series is so famous for. And a as a huge bonus is the fighting part. The new Speed 
 Kill system that has been introduced in this game keeps the game going and is fun to watch.
  In Warrior Within many fans of the game were extremely dissapointed with Ubisoft for taking away 
 all the charm of a Babylonian fairy tale. Instead of it, violence and gore rose up almost too high 
 in order to introduce new players into the series. In The Two Thrones both aspects have been balenced 
 out, and will please both the veterans and the those who are new to the world of Prince of Persia 
 .
  Even though the controls for the keyboard are quite good, not using a joypad is a bit more challenging. 
 So, if you don't yet have one and own the game, go buy one at the closest store! The money is worth 
 the fun you will get.
  The graphics and sound are great as well. The annoying heavy metal has gone away and the pleasant 
 and more traditional music has come back from the Sands of Time. The graphics aren't astonishing 
 but good anti-aliasing and a massive gloom effect can act as good make-up. Nonetheless, there a 
 still few glitches in the game, but those can be fixed by save/reload and a reboot.
  The only negative side is that this game is quite short, and not as challenging as Warrior Within. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _iMMuNiTy_
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 28, 2007 12:34 pm PT
Review:  Prince of Persia: The Sands of Time and Prince of Persia: Warrior Within were so different, that 
 the Prince of Persia fans virtually split into two groups  fans of the first game, and fans of 
 the second one. Ubisoft were faced with a dilemma  the first game was praised more than the second, 
 yet the second game made up for lackluster sales theyve experienced with Sands of Time. Instead 
 of choosing whether to follow Warrior Within or Sands of Time, theyve dangerously chosen both.
 
  
  The story of this game begins where Warrior Within ends. The Two Thrones refers to both of the 
 endings, but the real ending is referred to as a rumor, whereas the alternate ending appears 
 to be canonical. Either way, the Prince returns home, to Babylon, only to see that it is being 
 torn apart by war as a result of his actions in the previous game. The Prince rushes to undo his 
 mistake only to be nearly corrupted by the magical sands. From that point onward, the Prince is 
 in for a wild ride of self-discovery and reclaiming of his throne. As opposed to the first two 
 games barely relating to each other, The Two Thrones is closely tied to both. Alas, after the last 
 two games, the story of The Two Thrones feels inferior  it feels less streamlined, no new characters 
 are introduced and reused characters arent given more depth. In addition, the developers got the 
 right idea with an inner battle of good and evil, but it feels too much like its behind the scenes.
 
  
  The Sands of Time that have nearly turned the Prince into a sand monster give birth to his evil 
 alter ego, the Dark Prince, or the Prince we knew in Warrior Within. Occasionally, the Prince will 
 transform into the Dark Prince that is played similarly to the much-praised Sand Wraith in the 
 second game. As a sand creature, although your health constantly drops, you do not recreate sands, 
 but instead, you get a daggertail. Not only does this daggertail have long range and inflicts serious 
 damage, but it also plays a part in the acrobatics part of the game. A change from the Sand Wraith 
 is that your health does not drop to a certain point  you can actually die if you dont make it 
 to water to cancel the transformation, or gather sands to replenish your health. Sadly, the Dark 
 Prince remains an inner voice until the end of the game and the transformations are scripted events 
 that the player has no control over, which is disappointing altogether. On the bright side, the 
 Princes bickerings with his alter ego are highly amusing, and playing as the Dark Prince is awfully 
 fun.
  
  Combat remains nearly the same as it was in Warrior Within. Even most (if not all) combos remain 
 the same as in the second game. The game isnt as gory, however  there is only little blood at 
 the very start of the game, and from then on, theyll bleed sands. You cant slice your enemies 
 in half as you did in Warrior Within, since your primary weapon throughout the entire game is a 
 dagger. You can still pick up your enemies weapons as long as youre not turned into the Dark 
 Prince  then, your secondary weapon, if any, will be lost and replaced with the daggertail. As 
 the Dark Prince, youll be able to bust some new cool combos involving the daggertail, effectively 
 mauling everyone around you and giving them your corrupted evil middle finger.
  
  The shining star of the game  the daggertail  also plays a part in the acrobatics part of the 
 game, as mentioned before. While its nothing amazing, it does add variety to that particular element 
 of gameplay. Using the daggertail as the Dark Prince, youll be able to pull blocks that are out 
 of reach closer, swing off poles that are too far or high for the Prince to reach and wallrun farther. 
 Multi-purposed daggertails aside, a stab square has also been introduced  these are odd squares 
 placed on walls that you can stab and thus hang onto. Then, you can jump up or wallrun in either 
 direction.
  
  With such a broad selection of acrobatic moves, its really a wonder that the developers havent 
 made the game more open-ended by giving the player several approaches to a location, which would 
 have made the game more challenging  loyal fans of the trilogy may find the acrobatics less of 
 a challenge than they were in the first two games. Luckily, fun and tough challenges are met in 
 other aspects of gameplay. There are new sorts of traps, and fewer old ones make a return. The 
 traps are placed in spots that pose an even more formidable challenge than in Warrior Within.
 
  
  Additionally, stealth and speed kills were introduced in Prince of Persia: The Two Thrones. In 
 the second game, stealth was an occurrence, but in Prince of Persia: The Two Thrones, you can sneak 
 up on your enemies and initiate fancy, scripted kill sequences. Its not Splinter Cell  if there 
 are unalarmed enemies in the vicinity, you can sneak up to them by simply avoiding their field 
 of view. Sometimes, there will be some birds that you can unwittingly scare away and cause noise, 
 temporarily alerting the guards. Simple, but mildly fun. Is it rewarding? It sure is  in some 
 instances, not only can you avoid a fight, but you can prevent backup from arriving. Moreover, 
 you get to pull off a speed kill!
  
  Speed kills are performed with the press of a button on an unsuspecting victim, and as the Prince 
 is slashing at his foe with incredible style and skill (or snapping their necks brutally with the 
 daggertail) , you have to click your left mouse button every time the dagger flashes and a specific 
 sound is played (or simply click it repeatedly to snap that neck) . Sometimes, youll be able to 
 kill numerous sand addicts that way. This feature allows you to quickly ruin your enemies day 
 (or life, for that matter) and avoid lengthier fights. Speed kills play a prominent role in boss 
 fights as well, and that makes boss fights a lot of fun. Outside of boss fights, theyre not mandatory, 
 so if you dont want the game to do your job for you, you can take over.
  
  All in all, Prince of Persia: The Two Thrones offers a fun experience, tough challenges, a decent 
 closure to the trilogy and manages to surprise players not new to Ubisofts Prince of Persia series. 
 Ubisoft merges elements that made Sands of Time and Warrior Within fun, and add new features that 
 save the game from the dreaded clutches of repetition. Admittedly, it may not have next-gen graphics, 
 it may be linear and its story feels a bit shallow, but it is an unarguably fun time-waster for 
 both a younger and older audiences. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nitronith
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 16, 2007 5:36 am PT
Review:  Ubisoft and John mechner's Prince of persia is a classic hit from long back. POP two thrones is 
 the third part of the great Prince's story which began with the Sands Of time. After the defeating 
 the monster Dahaka the guardian of time Prince sets sail off to home along with the empress of 
 time Kaileena, only to find out that its getting destroyed by an unknown enemy force. The Prince 
 is in despair, furthermore Kaileena is kidnapped. He races to find her only to witness her death 
 by the hands of someone he killed long ago. And that someone has gained more power than before and 
 appears in a new form. what will the Prince do next? Are there more suprises awaiting our dear Prince? Find 
 out in Two Thrones.. This game is exciting and action packed than all the other POP's especially 
 due the new awsome 'stealth-kill' feature which gives a very high repaly value. It takes a little 
 time to learn how to execute perfect s-k's but from then on its superb. The sound is also cool especially 
 with a 5.1/7.1. the music tracks shifted back to the arabian style from the rock in WW. The graphics 
 hasn't improved in an expected manner but still looked polished.
  
  All in all it is a great game and a must play for POP fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dark_prince2007
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 17, 2007 6:40 am PT
Review:  The third chapter of Ubisoft's continuing revival of the classic Prince of Persia series. The Prince 
 of Persia, a seasoned warrior, returns from the Island of Time to Babylon with his love, Kaileena. 
 All is not well in Persia. The Grand Vizier of Jaffar has returned, assuming the identity of the 
 Prince. When the real prince arrives at the palace, the guards attack him and he is forced to flee 
 on a merchant ship. Instead of the peace that he longs for, he finds his homeland ravaged by war 
 and the kingdom turned against him. The Prince is rapidly captured and Kaileena has no choice but 
 to sacrifice herself and unleash the Sands of Time in order to save him. Now cast out on the streets 
 and hunted as a fugitive, the Prince soon discovers that past battles have given rise to a deadly 
 Dark Prince, whose spirit gradually possesses him. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CMJR
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 10, 2007 9:56 pm PT
Review:  -- Overview --
  
  Prince of Persia: The Two Thrones is the third in the Sands of Time trilogy, and both revisits 
 and reinvents much of what we saw in the previous two installments.
  
  The Prince has returned from the Island of Time, only to discover that his beloved kingdom has 
 fallen into war with a terrible enemy. An enemy led by the evil vizier, who died in Prince of Persia: 
 The Sands of Time , but was returned to life when the Prince changed the course of time in Prince 
 of Persia: Warrior Within .
  
  And so the vizier takes Babylon for himself, and is transformed into an immortal being in the process. 
 This does not bode well for the Prince, naturally, and so he embarks on a crusade to end this madness 
 and defeat the vizier once and for all (again) .
  
  -- Gameplay --
  
  If you are at all familiar with the first two games in this trilogy, then there will be much that 
 will recognize in the third. Though there are elements in the story that you will miss without 
 playing the first two games, the actual combat and controls have no sharper a learning curve this 
 time around than previously.
  
  The prince is quite the acrobat and athlete. He can run up and across walls, jump, climb and swing. 
 The myriad combinations of these tactics are the meat of what makes this game a joy to play. The 
 level designs are truly spectacular, and despite some elements (such as columns or shutters) being 
 placed deliberately to keep you moving forward, you won't feel that they shouldn't really be there. 
 The architecture alone is enough to brush away such distractions.
  
  The combat is challenging, no doubt, and the sheer number of combos the Prince can execute will 
 have your head spinning. The beauty of this is that different players will learn and use different 
 combos, dispatching their enemies in whatever way works best for them. Plus, the game does a good 
 job of helping you learn some of the combos along the way, and also provides a full list in the 
 game menu in case you need a reminder.
  
  The new elements introduced in The Two Thrones fall in seamlessly with the rest carried over from 
 the previous two games. Speed Kills are the most recognizable new feature, where the Prince has 
 the capability of quickly and stealthily doing away with his foes. This requires the player to 
 react reflexively to a series of moments during the kill. Press the button correctly, the Prince 
 succeeds. Press incorrectly, and you fail and the enemy is now alerted to your presence and regular 
 combat begins.
  
  And, of course, we cannot forget the introduction of the Dark Prince. This evil, brash, and often 
 humorous side of the Prince appears at various times throughout the game. The Dark Prince cannot 
 wield a secondary weapon, but is instead equipped with the Daggertail , a hooked chain that fuses 
 itself to the Prince's arm early in the game.
  
  The player cannot become the Dark Prince at will. This happens at opportune moments throughout 
 the game, and the Prince then changes back a short while later. It is important to note that while 
 in the Dark Prince's form, the Prince continually loses health, but his health is completely refilled 
 as soon as he comes in contact with sand. This can come from enemies, or from containers found 
 scattered throughout several levels.
  
  The Prince also controls time in a similar manner as before, and the Dagger of Time contains 6 
 sand tanks which can hold sands used for this purpose. The Prince can slow time, rewind time, and 
 also employ other attacks using sand, such as Sand Storm which kills all enemies in the vicinity. 
 Different time powers require differing amounts of sand, and are acquired as you progress through 
 the game.
  
  The only complaint revolving around gameplay would be the camera. The Two Thrones suffers like 
 many other third-person games of the type do, where the camera is not always your best friend. 
 Especially when you find yourself in a corner or against a wall. The camera can become stuck, leaving 
 you unable to see what you're doing.
  
  Granted, the player does have control over the camera and can swing it around, but when you're 
 in a particularly intense round of combat the last thing you want to be worrying about is moving 
 the camera.
  
  But, that issue aside, the gameplay is near seamless from beginning to end. And the story is also 
 superb, and brings the trilogy to a satisfying conclusion.
  
  -- Graphics &amp; Sound --
  
  The graphics in Prince of Persia: The Two Thrones are as fantastic and jaw-dropping as in the 
 previous two installments. Ubisoft held nothing back in filling the Prince's kingdom with amazing 
 architecture and clever level design.
  
  The only complaint I would have regarding graphics is the use of bloom. Bloom can be very nice, 
 and create that realistic look of light reflection within a game. But it can also become too much, 
 and at times while playing The Two Thrones , the bloom could become so overwhelming you cannot 
 see what you are doing. An unfortunate anomaly that, thankfully, does not interfere too often.
 
  
  The audio is wonderful. The music is very fitting, and not as heavy as in Prince of Persia: Warrior 
 Within . The music paces itself well throughout the game, and the sound effects are excellent overall.
 
  
  The voice-acting is quite good. The Prince's voice is the same as the last two games, and still 
 lacks that certain something that makes him truly believable. The Dark Prince's voice, however, 
 really steals the show. He will comment on the Prince's performance, make sarcastic statements 
 relating to the Prince's relationship with Farrah, and generally proves to be a nuisance in his 
 attempts to influence the Prince's conscience. Highly enjoyable.
  
  -- Conclusion --
  
  If you played the first two in the series, then picking up The Prince of Persia: The Two Thrones 
 is a no-brainer. In fact, given that the game was released a couple years ago now, you probably 
 already have.
  
  To those individuals who have not yet experience this series, then start with The Prince of Persia: 
 The Sands of Time and work your way up. Trust me, it will be well worth it. The amalgamation of 
 combat and acrobatics in these games in unparalleled, and offers a new style of gameplay unfamiliar 
 to most.
  
  From beginning to end, the Sands of Time trilogy is likely one of the most successful series of 
 its type to date, and is not to be missed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: whipshock08
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 9, 2007 6:52 am PT
Review:  The amazing Prince of Persia stepped it up with Two Thrones. Adding a large amount of new combat 
 moves and styles along the way. Although like the other Prince of Persia games it too has a focused 
 objective. But they add more trickery in finding the secret spots in the game. You have to be more 
 on the toes at all times. The puzzles are better than ever and the combat is intensely fun. The 
 dark prince is a powerful new edition that really picks the game up. Hit style of play is innovative 
 and powerful. Only the time limit while playing him can get on your nerves. The Chariot riding 
 and swamp monster riding give the game that extra kick that really says they put the time in to 
 make it different from the past two games. Game play is a bit short, but that could be just because 
 I played it nonstop for about 2 days. Graphics are great with no slowing of my computer. Sound 
 was great, nice and clean. Also the game is very easy to pick up if you have played the previous 
 two. The high points of the game were the intense combat battles and the low point was actually 
 when the game was over. After beating the last boss there is a bonus level to play which is new. 
 However even with all these great additions nothing can beat Prince of Persia: Sands of Time, which 
 is one of the greatest games of its time. I gave PoP3 a 9.4 and call it highly addictive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Don_Shadio
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 1, 2007 7:47 pm PT
Review:  This game starts right after where you finish its prequel (the second ending, where you kill the 
 Dhaka) . The prince returns to his city only to find it burning, chaos prevails and the city is 
 overrun by sand creatures that have been allowed to run riot by an enemy from past, an enemy the 
 prince had already defeated. What surprised me was the act that the prince has completely changed, 
 looks different from the one in Warrior Within although the story starts, as I said, right after 
 where it ends previously.
  
  The tradition continues, you have a lot of moves/attacks that you can master and use on your enemies. 
 The game is full of action with a very few puzzles, even they arent what youll call puzzles. 
 As you play, you come across Princess Farah, who due to the changes in time has no memory of the 
 prince, but our prince seems to have a good memory of everything that happened between them, maybe 
 its in his nature. The good thing about this game is the other prince you transform into who is 
 really strong and feeds of his enemies. The city is well defined; youll be fighting in the streets, 
 halls, rooftops, in fact everywhere, not to mention the cart ride through the narrow streets, spend 
 more recalls here and you end up facing a troublesome situation in the end of the ride where you 
 fight two boss level monsters simultaneously. The fights are easy once you get used to your enemies 
 movements and attack patterns.
  
  Overall its a nice and short game, and those who have played the prequels, wont even bother checking 
 reviews, but if you havent played the prequels, do play them first before putting your hand on 
 The Two Thrones. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aliendrone
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 17, 2007 7:45 pm PT
Review:  I think this game is good , i enjoy playing , i like the return of the original voice of the prince 
 , and i like the conversations (or thinking) with the dark prince , also a good music , i don't 
 like much the music of WW , this have more music of the culture , also the dark prince remembers 
 me to the shadow of PRINCE OF PERSIA 2 , and also the copy of prince in the first game , your enemy 
 and your allie , this game have good look , well also have some down things , but i enjoyed , and 
 the end it''s very good , SANDS OF TIME FOREVER ! ^^ , bye 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sangbums2
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 10, 2007 5:02 pm PT
Review:  the last of the prince of persia series is only worth playing for the new daggertail weapon, speedkill 
 and the ending
  
  a few new concepts but nothing significantly new
  
  personally i thought speedkill was pretty cool how you have to strike at the right moments. but 
 this has one flaw, if there are multiple enemies, you will get spotted by the other one as soon 
 as you start killing the first one. you CAN kill two at a time but this is very rare as they have 
 to be in a specific place and facing a specific direction.
  also, this one doesnt allow you to decapitate your enemies which makes it a lot less fun lol
 
  
  the daggertail isnt all that great since its really hard to control but its fun while it lasts
 
  
  i had a lot of trouble fighting the last boss as the previous boss fights werent half as hard as 
 the last one. its a big jump in difficulty so try not to start it in hard mode because you think 
 its not that big of a challenge in the beginning, you wont be able to beat the last boss.
  
  the ending to the saga wasnt all that satisfying either but an ending nonetheless.
  
  i 
 wouldnt strongly recommend this game but everyone thats played the other two should play this for 
 the ending. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sudantha8527
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 28, 2007 6:22 am PT
Review:  The Two Thrones is a great addition to the new Prince of Persia trilogy; the game adds some new 
 game play features as well as closure to the story.
  
  What has changed since The Sands of Time and Warrior Within? Well the friendly talkative Prince 
 is back from the Sands of Time who always thinks to himself, this gets the player more attached 
 to the game as he gets to know what the Prince is going through, to whoever hasnt played the first 
 two games I recommend that you play them or do some research on the story since it plays a vital 
 part in the game (I havent played the first game the Sands of Time but I have read up on the story 
 and know it well) the rock music from Warrior Within has been taken away and more middle eastern 
 type music has been added. A new game play feature called Speed Kill has been added in to the game 
 which plays a huge role in the game, no more back tracking like in Warrior Within or recycled environments. 
 The same old challenging puzzles return which is what brings the best of the game out. The same 
 moves whether its fighting or acrobatic moves to get through certain traps, there are some new 
 moves added like the use of the dagger to stab in to walls. Another addition is the chariot sequences.
 
  
  The GOOD: The great graphics are back with the awesome sounds that make you one with the game, 
 the graphics stand out to this day. The game is very challenging whether its a puzzle, finding 
 a way to get from point A to B or just fighting an enemy. There are a variety of game play features 
 which are very exciting; the story is worth mentioning to whoever has followed the series all I 
 see is the story getting better. Breath taking cut scenes and good Voice acting keeping up the 
 name of the previous games.
  
  The BAD: Bugs, some of them can be really frustrating, please have a guide to all bug fixes in 
 hand when playing the game, there may be patches but I just couldnt be bothered searching for 
 them. But dont worry most bugs could be gotten rid of by just a restart of the game, the worse 
 ones you may have to start from a previous save point. The camera angle can be annoying at times, 
 especially some critical times. The game recommends that you play with an analog stick, I personally 
 played with the keyboard had no problems at all. Some of the boss battles, some areas and some 
 puzzles could get a bit frustrating because of difficulty so be ready to play some areas again, 
 but I personally loved the challenge in the game.
  
  Other than some technical problems the game offers the best that an action adventure game. The 
 game has an ability to capture the player, and the story adds the topping tying all the loose ends 
 to end an awesome trilogy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LordAzmodan
Rating: 8.1
Date: Apr 8, 2007 1:47 pm PT
Review:  I was really excited about the game when it came out, I played it for a while to suddenly find 
 that I'm in the middle of the game, which was a somehow disappointing, I expected more action on 
 it, more exciting gameplay. But somehow it was typical.
  Now to the Flashing Dagger, it wasn't so bad to sneak and kill your enemies, but it was boring 
 at the boss fight, in Warrior Within, you can finish every boss in your own specific way, depending 
 on your skill in the fighting, you can even finish every boss in several ways, but in TTT, there's 
 only one finish for every boss, and if you couldn't master it, there's no way you can do it otherwise. 
 The Fianl Battle wasn't as good as the one in WW at all, it was a sequence with very few fighting 
 ability, it was all about timing and the dagger.
  I couldn't like the Chariots races, felt like playing a car game, which is not Prince of Persia 
 at all, and mentioning that i wanna go back to the Boss fights, where you fight the 2 bosses (axe 
 and sword) , it will sure take you sometime to figure it out, no one ever liked this one, but once 
 you know the idea it's pretty easy.
  I enjoyed the riddles they were good.
  As a whole it's a pretty game.. just not the one i expected after the stunning Warrior Within, 
 in my own point of view, Warrior Within is way too better, better story line, more like an Epic, 
 with very interesting change of events, and a great Dahaka chasings. seems that every Prince 2 
 is blessed and every Prince 3 is cursed.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 2048
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 20, 2007 8:44 am PT
Review:  I would have to say this is a prettly awesome game. It by all means is: amazingly fun, amazingly 
 violent (another way of saying fun) , and pretty epic. I by all means enjoyed this game to it's 
 full extent, but that doesn't mean it doesn't have flaws. I would have to say that the graphic 
 weren't what I expected. The enviornments were really good, but the characters (including the Prince 
 himself) , were only mediocre. Their weapons went right through their clothes, there wasn't much 
 expression on their face and the flowing things on their body (cloths, boot clamps, hair, etc.) 
 were absolutely horribly done. That all added to the unrealistic feel to the game. You don't get 
 the thrill of actually feeling like you are the prince. Well anyway, if you are a Prince fan, you 
 should absolutely get this game, and even if you're not, I still recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dope999
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 10, 2007 11:22 am PT
Review:  First came The Sands of Time, which was a totally new gaming experience in its genre. It was definitely 
 one the best games ever made, and people hungered for more puzzle solving, wall running, enemy 
 vaulting gameplay. Then came Warrior Within, which was welcomed by some mixed reactions. Some people 
 didn't liked it, because of its change of style, but still a satisfying sequel. Then Ubisoft Montreal 
 declared that there will be one more Prince of Persia game, and it was going to be the end of the 
 game series. And here it is, Prince of Persia: The Two Thrones. But what is going on? Why is Kaileena 
 not dead? And who dares to attack the city of Babylon?
  
  The story starts with the Prince and Kaileena - the Empress of Time, returning from the Island 
 of Time. The start of the story may cause confusion, because in Warrior Within there was multiple 
 endings. But the real ending was that you killed the Dahaka and changed your fate. But when the 
 Prince returns to Babylon, he is welcomed by a war and his ship is attacked and sunken. Since you 
 changed the Timeline, the sands was never created and the Vizier was never killed, so now he's 
 back better and stronger than ever, because he gains his immortality from the dagger of time. But 
 when the Vizier is transformed, the Prince is also infected by the Sands, which creates a double 
 personality inside of him. A darker self.
  
  Prince of Persia is back, now fighting for his throne and his kingdom. You still possess the original 
 skills and sandtanks, since you fight with the Dagger of Time as your primary weapon, and a random 
 enemy weapon as a secondary weapon. You can perform new moves such as standing on a swing bar and 
 climb between two narrow walls. But the most exciting new feature, is a new stealth system called 
 Speed-Kills. When above an enemy, you press E and the speed kill begins. The prince attacks the 
 enemy from behind, time stops for a split second and the dagger glows. When the time stops, you 
 have to press the attack button to attack the enemy. Sometimes you have to slash one time and sometimes 
 up to 5 times just to kill a single enemy, but you can perform double speed-kills when there's 
 one more near the first one. But the speed-kills has one bad thing in it. All you're other powers 
 such as, Winds of Fate and so forth is put in the back seat of the game. Most of your sand goes 
 to rewinding a failed speed-kill.
  Another great change is the change of style once more, but this time it's gone back to the Sands 
 of Time style. The story is told by Kaileena who's killed by the Vizier to gain his immortality. 
 The prince is slowly gaining pieces of his former self throughout the game, but still he's selfish 
 and only cares for combat and killing the Vizier. And now the biggest change in the The Two Thrones; 
 in some sequences in the game, you will transform to your darker self  The Dark Prince. Throughout 
 the game, you other personality will speak to you inside you mind. He encourages you to stay as 
 the dark prince and gives you some advice, but still he wants the dark prince to consume the prince 
 himself. While transformed into the Dark Prince, your health will slowly fade away  like the Sand 
 Wraith from Warrior Within, but you don't replenish sands, as long as your transformed. It requires 
 a different style to play as the Dark Prince, because now you possess the powerful Daggertail. 
 This powerful weapon makes you capable of performing extremely deadly combos and attacks. You can 
 also use the Daggertail as a swing rope, to cover more distance. The only way to replenish your 
 health, is to get some of the sands of time, while water makes you transform back to your original 
 self. You're also introduced to some serious boss fights. The first is a gigantic, once-a-man, 
 creature who will kill you with his huge sword. To kill such an enemy, you need a bit of brain, 
 creativity and so forth. The boss fights are usually fun and challenging and varied  a great new 
 feature to Prince of Persia.
  
  The graphics has slightly changed since Warrior Within. The light is more shiny, and almost blinding 
 when looking around and at the sun. Character graphics has been upgraded, but still some minor 
 glitches  like hair animations, mouth animations and more. Enemies has been slightly reduced, 
 they're more simple and not varied, unlike in Warrior Within (Sorry if I make too many comparisons) . 
 The cutscenes has not changed a bit, they're still exciting and very cinema-like; very, very good. 
 After three games, and I'm still impressed by the voice acting. The Prince's voice always changes 
 in each game, and still it sounds like Ubisoft really cut down on voice acting. A shame, because 
 the dialogue and character personalities are really great. Other sound effects such as weapons, 
 attacks, enemy sounds, music and other sounds, are all great  it provides a good mood, and it's 
 very, very remarkable. Sounds good  next: Value...
  
  Although the first game was fairly short, and the sequel was extremely exciting and a smooth, long 
 ride through the Island of Time, The Two Thrones is kick-ass when it comes to replay value and 
 how it lasts. The game provides you with a good, long campaign  up to 16 hours of gameplay, when 
 playing it for the first time. Personally, I just couldn't let go of the keyboard, I just had to 
 know what was going to happen next. A shame, that this will be the final Prince of Persia game. 
 It was good while it lasted.
  
  Conclusion  if you haven't played the three Prince of Persia games, then get them and see what 
 I mean. The games are exciting, amazing, extremely satisfying and so many other positive things. 
 I won't regret buying these game very cheap in a gaming store. So go out there and get them, cause 
 I'm sure you won't regret it too.
  
  Dope999 
::::::

::::::
UserName: n8theknight
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 7, 2007 9:57 pm PT
Review:  Prince of Persia: The Two Thrones has breathe taking graphics and scenery. With great lighting 
 and sound Ubisoft really puts you into the Persian Empire. With the Prince's acrobatic and smooth 
 moves at your finger tips, you use his every skill to maneuver pass buildings and puzzles. You 
 are able to fight enemies while surrounded because of the auto directional fight system. Doing 
 aerial flips from building to building, you are able to use these skills on the ground fighting 
 your enemies which, makes the fighting fun, smooth, and attractive. If you are a warmongering gamer, 
 this game might not fit you. Though this game has a good portion of combat it also has its portion 
 of puzzles. These puzzles i feel are more entertaining than many other puzzle games. Instead of 
 finding gems to fit into different walls or running around talking to people, you jump from wall 
 to wall; climbing and dodging traps. These puzzles test your reaction time and some creativity 
 to figure out. The combat aspect of this game also gives some god of war, but also you are allowed 
 to sneak pass, around or on top, of enemies and take them out ninja style. The camera angles are 
 amazing and lets you experience the depth perception of the game, but the angles also affect how 
 you can control your prince. The camera angles in some levels are frustrating not letting the play 
 do what he wants to do at times. The storyline is easy to follow, but isn't in depth like some 
 rpg gamers like. This game is worth getting for anyone who likes video games and is looking for 
 something new. You wont find this type of game play in other games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Grottekvarnen
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 3, 2007 5:04 am PT
Review:  Finally the third title of POP series is here . Now , there are bad
  and good news . The good news are that everything is a lot improved .
  POP 3 reminds you the 
 glory of the first title . Some new features are added in the game . Now the prince becomes something 
 like a ninja . He can kill
  easy his opponents with his dagger . If you are in good spots, you can kill
  them with quick 
 kills . You can understand when its the time cause the
  screen is shinning. When you push the right button , the prince shows his talent in tricks in order 
 to kill the enemy . But , its not that easy cause it will came the moment that you have to push 
 again the button and
  if you hit it in the wrong time , things do not how as you hope and the enemy hits you . If you 
 don 't want to get in that trouble , you can kill
  them with the old fashion way . Also , when you do matrix on the wall,
  there are some spots 
 that you can stick your dagger and stay put or some
  spots that you can push the jump button and go in a spot you coulsn't reach .That helps the prince 
 to make long distances .The only thing wrong is that things are not that difficult as they used 
 to be .Especially the leaders are peace of cake .None or less , its a great game . Now its the 
 time for the bad news . The bad news are that the POP series are over (Noooooooooooo...) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nfsmw1989
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 12, 2007 11:13 am PT
Review:  I done this game once. Now I am playing it again, and this time I am better than I was. I wanna 
 become the best in PoP The 2 Thrones. I suggest you all to try this game ... won't be saaad. it 
 wasn't too hard. I think it was easy. But you need to think in some places such as Structure's 
 Mind or Royal Workshop. I liked the boss orc. It was very very very easy, but I spent some time 
 while I got an idea how to kill him. My ratings are: 9,7, because it is really really very nice 
 game ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedneckGamer87
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 10, 2007 9:34 am PT
Review:  Let me tell you a bit of the story before I start reviewing the diffrent parts of the game. In 
 the third and final installment of the new Prince of Persia series, The Prince is returning home 
 some the far away island with the sand emperess Kileena. When he gets back to his home in Babylone 
 he finds it under attack by some strange enemy who start fireing fire arrows and artilery at his 
 ship and and sink it. Again the prince finds himself on a beach and Kaileena is captured by a bunch 
 of enemy soldier. Now the prince has to go after her. He eventually finds her chained up but is 
 killed by the vizer. For thoughs of you who are confused by this, The reason why the Vizer is back 
 is because the prince had reversed time so that nothing that he did in the first game happen. Then 
 after the Vizer kills kileena he stabs imself and turns in to a sand monster and the prince is 
 parlty infected too. and i'll let you play the game and find out what you are missing out.
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay is amazing it improves from the second game Prince of Persia Warrior 
 Within by smoothing out the free form fighting and adding more moves to the free form fighting 
 like being able to slide down a chain overtop the enemy and then go down and then there is this 
 new quick kill system which will turn the dagger blue and then you have to press the button on 
 time to be able to stab the enemy in the vital areas though it many take one to four hits because 
 you fully complte the quick kill. When the Prince is infected by the sands of time when the Vizer 
 kills Kileena there is a chain that is stuck on his arm and it gets fused on to his game and he 
 turns in to the dark prince. When he dose he uses the chain like a whip to perform very powerfull 
 attacks. When I mentioned ealier abuot the new move were you can slide down chains useing you legs 
 well when you are the dark prince you can slide down and then let loose the chain on your arm and 
 then wrap it around the enemies neck and then slice his head off which is pretty cool and can use 
 the chain like a whip and to swing yourself from one area to another, also as the dark prince your 
 health is constanly going down so you will continuall have to smash jars and furnature for sand 
 to replenish your health and only when you find water that you turn in to the regular prince. Also 
 there are a few chariot races in the game which can be frustrating when you crash because you will 
 have to start over again. Also there are several boss fights one with a absolutly huge giant and 
 twins with a sword and an ax. Also I have to mention that Ferra is with you though out the game 
 helping you complete tasks. This game is an exellent combination of the first prince of persia 
 and the second Prince of persia with some new elements and updates. The only thing that I did not 
 like was the controlls, I found it a little aquard useing the mouse and keyboard for an action/adventure 
 game, I kinda prefered it on consell, to be more pasific the Xbox.
  
  Graphics: The Graphics are very nice. There is not as much bloody and gore and heads and limbs 
 flying every where and bodys being chopped in half. The envoment is like the first prince of persia 
 but Ubisoft improved on it. The cut scenes are absolutly amazing, they are very realistic and look 
 like a real movie.
  
  sound: The sound is quite good and every thing sound like they should sound and the voice acting 
 is good too. But they only thing is that the dark Princes voice is not done as well as it should 
 of been
  
  Value: Well the replay value is ok you might want to play it over one or two over again and then 
 after you play it though. For the extra features there is not as much as the previous two games. 
 There are only videos from the game and the previous two games and a bunch of art work.
  
  All in all this game is an exellent to play and it's a great game to have in your collection. This 
 is a game that should not be missed by any gamer. Infact I think this is the best in the entire 
 series to date. So I give this game 9 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andilosha
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 9, 2007 11:52 pm PT
Review:  As a former Sands of Time and Warrior Within player, seriously I was expecting a lot from this 
 game....... But to be honest, this game is even better than what I was thinking of!!! The Prince 
 does every move he could do at Warrior Within, but the rope moves and he has plenty of new tactics!!! 
 Like he can stick the dagger into some cracks in the wall, he can do speed kills, and the dark 
 prince using his chain makes it even more fun!!!!!!
  
  Something else very cool are chariot races! It's like driving games, but gives PoP a great advantage.... 
 During the Game you'll have to fight 5 mayor battles... The first one you fing with a 30m jarless 
 giant, which you have to blind on both eyes, have to put on his knees and kill!!! the second is 
 a girl that moves from one square to another really fast and you have to reach her. Third there's 
 a monster you drive the dagger in it's head and then have to ride him through some doors.... Fourth 
 you get to fight two twin warriors with just your dagger, and that's pretty hard!! And the fifth 
 guy... well... it's the vizier transformed into a crab-like monster and that's a cool fight!
  
  Also game graphics are really nice, sounds are cool but as you might be already thinking getting 
 used to the controls is the only thing that isn't right... But once you get used with it....... 
 You'll enjoy living a tale!!!
  
  If don't agree with this review PM so we can talk about it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: prince_elad_69
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 8, 2007 12:05 pm PT
Review:  i really expectrd a whole lot more from these game and i really got dissapointed.. but the ending 
 is kinda cool :P
  
  GRAPHICS: got a little bit better from the second but not a major change wich will make you scrtch 
 your head days and nights how the hell could they make these graphics look any better than the 
 previous game...
  
  SOUND: not good... well its a downfall for the sound in these game because the sound in the POPWW 
 was just amazing...
  
  GAMEPLAY: they spiced the gameplay a little bit with the dark prince.. and he is just like the sand 
 wreith in the POPWW for those who hasent notice it.. anyway the camera in these game is the best 
 in the series no question ask... and i really liked the change that they have did and fot that i 
 thank ubisoft for makind that...
  
  overall these game is fun and the fans will enjoy it extreamlly and will flip from the ending... i 
 reccomend to buy these game... but it can olso be rented i at gamefly if you like...
  
  BYE BYE 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrAbs
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 5, 2007 4:27 am PT
Review:  The third part of the trilogy brings all the other games together in a fantastic yet weird way.
 
  
  Prince returned from his journey to the Island of time where he thought he destroyed the Sands 
 of time. But no, the Vizier has the dagger of time. He somehow fused himself to the sands and turned 
 into some sort of monster.
  
  Your mission is to go through Babylon from the Coast to the Tower to face off with the Vizier
 
  
  Again the people from Ubisoft outdone themselves with a fantastic fighting engine. Massive combos 
 and a multitude of weapons keep the game super interesting. There are not as many puzzles in this 
 game as there was in the first two, which was a bit of a shame, but it did not spoil the fun. The 
 environments are well designed and the graphics are fantastic. Smooth motions keep you on the edge 
 of your seat. The Camera is also better than the first one. This is a massive game. It goes on 
 for hours. Just like the predecessors. Excellent way to finish off the Trilogy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djane25
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 4, 2007 11:30 pm PT
Review:  This last part of trilogy Sand story of Prince of Persia is also a very good game...! I also played 
 it several times, as I did with POP: Warrior Within...
  You don't need a game guide, for the game already showed no-option hints, so that you would never 
 be lost inside the game. The graphics and the sound were perfectly been distributed to give impact 
 to the game. The action of the game is what I liked the most. The enemies would not be beaten in 
 one to two hits... They're quite strong... But there is this quick kill that makes the killing cool!... You 
 just have to become agile and precise in pressing the button, when the flash comes out during the 
 quick kill process...
  The story of the game is also unique... I don't know why there still has no movie film for the Prince 
 of Persia... Superman, Spider-man, Fantastic 4, already have, but this game doesn't have yet. Maybe 
 it will be good to have movie for this Prince of Persia trilogy... So well, have fun!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: f_an
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 27, 2006 9:44 pm PT
Review:  I was a big fan of the original Prince of Persia (although I haven't played the second) and the 
 third installment lives up to first one. The Two Thrones is a very solid game altogether and very 
 few singleplayer games make me come back and play the game again. Fewer games have made me come 
 back and beat the game for the second time. But The Two Thrones (T2T) did just that. Any game that 
 I beat more than once is a great accomplishment in my book. The story is well done and wraps everything 
 up nicely. The dialogue writing is a bit weak in the beginning but starts picking up nicely half 
 way through. The graphics are really nicely done regardless of the aging engine. This is especially 
 true on the PC where you can crank up the settings without the need of having a monster gaming 
 machine. The music is really well done and for the most part, all the sound effects are on key. 
 The prince can do many combos and moves during combat but personally I do not think the combat 
 is the strongest point in the game. It is well done but not without its flaws. The first time running 
 the game, some combat sequences may be too difficult if you fail a speed kill or make a wrong move. 
 Also, you don't always target the right enemy, sometimes you'll summersault past the person in 
 front of you to attack the one behind him. Other times when trying the pull off a move, you'll 
 end up doing numerous amounts of other moves. In fact you'll find yourself doing specific cheap 
 moves to beat enemies such as throwing them off balconies or pushing off a wall, hurling yourself 
 at the enemy. This brings me to another part of the game, speed kills. They are very satisfying 
 to pull off and look really cool. You sneak up behind an enemy (or above) and then drop down to 
 do a stealth kill but you do a bit more then just click a button. When you engage in a stealth 
 kill, the prince will carry out fancy moves and each time he strikes the dagger flashes and you 
 need to hit the attack button. If your timing is too early or too late, the enemy will counterattack 
 you and you'll speed kill is completely gone to waste. There difficult to pull off in the beginning 
 (at a certain part of the game, it actually increases the difficulty drastically of the speed kill 
 more so then it normally is) but near the end of the game you'll be able to pull off these moves 
 like a pro.
  
  However, the acrobatic platform jumping is where the game's at. There really well done and all 
 the health upgrades require you to run through a short booby trapped hallway which requires you 
 to pull these jumps off. Dagger plates and diagonal boards increase the variety of the puzzle jumping 
 and it works really well. A small problem though is the camera which can be a frustration at times. 
 For the most part the camera is really good while in combat or jumping around. Also at certain 
 areas, the camera moves away to show you where you have to go or jump. This normally helps but 
 sometimes the camera starts moving while your about to jump. This changes the direction where you 
 originally planed to jump since the direction your going is dependent which way the camera is facing 
 the prince. This makes column jumping in particular frustrating at times.
  
  Another frustrating part about the game is how badly the save points are spread out. Some areas 
 you actually walk for a minute, hardly doing anything and meet a save point. Other times you'll 
 find yourself going through a stretch of 40 minutes just trying to find a place where you can safe 
 and if you die, you'll have to go back to a checkpoint that took you 15 minutes to get where you 
 are. Also the game doesn't do the greatest job of slowly progressing in difficulty. The game is 
 easy at first but then at a certain point near the beginning, it just gets harder in combat. Afterwards, 
 the game doesn't get a whole lot harder as far as combat, so the end of the game is actually easier 
 since you'll get better at combat and have more health than the middle of the game. Also, a lot 
 of areas require trial and error but the ability to rewind time makes this more forgivable and 
 all the other difficult areas.
  
  Although, there are a lot of small problems with Prince of Persia: T2T, the game is actually very 
 good and fun to play. You'll get a lot better at the game later on and be able to do things that 
 you had to try 6 times in the beginning with ease. The first and last bosses are nicely cinematic 
 and although the fixed camera areas can be a nuisance, the jumping puzzles are well done. The speed 
 kills add a nice element of gameplay and overall the game improves on the original game in many 
 ways. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: allenkiller
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 22, 2006 10:35 pm PT
Review:  Muy apero, mucha aventura, accion y nuevas abilidades... El mejor de la trilogia.... ojala y saquen 
 otro principe de persia pero ya veremos que deciden los creadores. Pero me hubiese gustado que 
 esta fuera tan sangrienta como la parte 2, pero aun asi el juego esta de pinga!!!!
  
  Ahora deberian de sacar una pelicula de la trilogia como el se&ntilde; or de los anillos, y podrian 
 poner a CM Punk el luchador de la ECW como protagonista, seria una magnifica idea, no? por cierto, 
 no se si alguna otra persona habra puesto un Review en espa&ntilde; ol, si no es asi entonces sere 
 el pionero =P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tomacres
Rating: 7.2
Date: Dec 22, 2006 8:37 am PT
Review:  Seriously, why did Ubisoft not listen to the complaints about the second game? OK, so they got 
 rid of the dark tone and got back the old voice actor who played the Prince in the first game, 
 but this is still a bad game compared to Sands of Time. They've gone and added little new things 
 to try and give you an excuse to buy it, but these additions just make the game worse.
  
  Gameplay: One of the additions is the playable Dark Prince. Boy do I hate this guy. An annoying 
 voice, annoying combat skills, annoying life bar. This guy is supposed to be strong and powerful 
 yet the combat is tedious and his life is always depleting. Why?! It sucks! The other new addition 
 is the chariot races, boy I hate these. These are just horrible. The combat is as tedious and annoying 
 as Warrior Within as well. Luckily there's still some brilliant platforming action fro Sands of 
 Time.
  
  Graphics: YES! THE OUTDOOR ENVIRONMENTS ARE BACK! After spending so much time in dark and dpressing 
 environments in Warrior Within, I'm happy to say that the lovely outdoor environments from the 
 first game are back. However, the character models are a bit iffy, even thugh the animation is 
 still lovely. The cut scenes are beautiful as well buit when woven toghter with the in game cutscenes 
 it looks awful.
  
  Sound: No more rock music! Yay! The voice acting is now also decent as well. Rejoice to the world!
 
  
  Value: Oh darn, once again this game is very short.
  
  Overall, the combat is annoying, the dark prince even more so, there's not enough platforming and 
 it's just overall really bad compared to the sands of time. In terms of fun, this prince is becoming 
 a pauper. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ronygreat
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 21, 2006 11:20 pm PT
Review:  i m a pop fan and impressed by final effort of ubisoft pop1 good , pop2 fair, and pop3 perfect 
 . its a mindblowing game.
  
  The game's puzzles are absolutely entertaining. They remind me of Zelda's puzzles.. perhaps not 
 as impressive and immersive but its still fun. By that I mean the actions are mostly similar, i 
 mean you jump, run or fight your way across. In zelda, you pushed objects, swam through different 
 places, jumped from one end to another and did all sorts of things to get through, opening chained 
 doors etc.
  
  It is improved from its previous versions. In this game you will find that Graphics are great but 
 sometimes they are dull. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: surag198
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 19, 2006 6:39 pm PT
Review:  This is a wonderful game with an impressive storyline. As you progress you'll see cutscenes, believable 
 and enjoyable that draw you into the storyline.
  
  Its true this game is linear... but the puzzle play and varied action sequences draw you into playing 
 the game. The Boss fights are unique and an interesting experience. I've never played the other 
 games... perhaps thats why I enjoyed this game so much. Its possible this game is the same as others... if 
 so then repeat gamers may not enjoy it but if you are new to this game series, I say its very enjoyable.
 
  
  The game's puzzles are absolutely entertaining. They remind me of Zelda's puzzles.. perhaps not 
 as impressive and immersive but its still fun. By that I mean the actions are mostly similar, i 
 mean you jump, run or fight your way across. In zelda, you pushed objects, swam through different 
 places, jumped from one end to another and did all sorts of things to get through, opening chained 
 doors etc. Regardless, this game is fun in its own merit and comparing to zelda is quite unfair 
 as thats the best game ever. Graphically its slightly outdated and for a third person perspective 
 game there are details I wish they put more emphasis on and made the levels more interactive. Basically 
 you can only break pots along the way and nothing else much interactive. Also, the enemies arent 
 spectacular and the kill sequences while incredibly cool, the gore is limited. I'm surprised its 
 rated M even as the gore is limited and the deaths dont really show much blood or gore.
  
  I had some technical problems with the controller being too lose and the character moving even 
 when the stick was not moved. I was annoyed but I thought it was manageable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dekou
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 16, 2006 12:26 pm PT
Review:  Prince of Persia: Sands of Time isn't an ordinary game. It's a game that greatly influenced the 
 gaming industry and revitalized the genre of platformers on PC. The sequel, Warrior Within, was 
 even more successful, but many (including me) though it lost the charm of the original. The Two 
 Thrones tries to recapture the old atmosphere, satisfying both SoT and WW fans.
  
  The game begins with the Prince and Kaileena (aka the Empress of Time) sailing towards Babylon. 
 Unfortunately, the Prince's bad luck continues as he finds out that his city is captured by the 
 Vizier from the first PoP game. Looks like the events of Warrior Within made it as if that naughty 
 old man never died and is still searching for a way to make himself immortal. So, a new adventure 
 begins, and the Prince has to stop the Vizier and undo his evil schemes once again. This time, 
 he also needs to avenge Kaileena's death and struggle against his Dark Side.
  
  Even though it looks stupid, the game's story is actually quite good, if you have played both previous 
 games. The developers have used the style of SoT, using Kaileena as narrator. Her voice is pleasant 
 enough and makes you feel as if you were reading a fairy tale. While the storytelling thing isn't 
 quite as good for the plot as it was in SoT, it does make you wonder how can she be speaking if 
 she's dead.
  
  Gameplay hasn't changed much. You have the speed kill feature, which lets you instantly kill one 
 or two enemies by sneaking behind them and clicking a couple of times and looks great. However, 
 I think the Prince has lost some of his dexterity from the previous installment. Blocking is much 
 harder than it used to be and combos seem to be slower or less effective. The bad thing is that 
 these changes force you to use speed kills way too often and make combat a bit slower and less 
 intense. Developers promised and made chariot sequences, but there are only two or three of them 
 and they aren't anything special.
  
  Fortunately, the The Two Thrones' level design is well-done, although you have to wonder what are 
 all those jump pads doing on Babylonian streets. Some locations are very moody, especially the 
 ones you'll visit as Dark Prince. The camera is painfully slow and can get frustrating from time 
 to time.
  
  The engine remains the same, but things have gotten worse. Even main characters look quite bad, 
 especially Farah, who looks horrible. She looked better in SoT, and that was several years ago! 
 Some landscape textures look ugly, too.
  
  However, excellent voice acting, an immersive storyline and recaptured atmosphere make this game 
 worth playing. It isn't a masterpiece or a revolution, but it sure is a solid product you will 
 like if you played and liked previous PoP games. If you haven't, I'd recommend playing through 
 Sands of Time and Warrior Within first.
  
  
  + Well-done story, sounds, atmosphere
 
  + Longer than SoT, but doesn't make you lose yourself in gigantic environments like WW did
  + Gameplay is still pretty entertaining
  
  - Looks bad
  - Weird camera angles
  - Nothing 
 new 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aakash16
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 23, 2006 12:41 am PT
Review:  Prince Of Persia The Two Thrones is one of Greatest Action/Adventure Game . It is improved from 
 its previous versions. In this game you will find that Graphics are great but sometimes they are 
 dull.
  Sound And Music are very impressive. The Sound effects are superb and Music is the best ever in 
 prince of persia series . It sometimes feel like remix of music of Prince of persia The sands of 
 Time. What I think The Gameplay is the most enjoyable, as it features Many NEW things like the 
 SPEED KILL , CHARIOT RACE , NEW COMBOS, NEW PUZZULES, NEW jumpings , climbing, etc kinds of things, 
 AND THE GREATEST OF GREATEST the DARK PRINCE . Its character, design is Great. Its Weapons (Daggertail) 
 is the superb weapon Which has Combos + it also helps jumping , running along the walls, etc. Prince 
 OF Persia The Two Thrones has all the things a action/adventure player would like. I think the series 
 of sands of time must continue. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: angelwings1818
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 21, 2006 7:24 pm PT
Review:  Prince of Persia: The Two Thrones is truly a very well-designed game, and is a lot of fun. Just 
 make sure that you get a gamepad for your PC (they're about $20) , or else you'll be in for a lot 
 of frustration, as the controls are not really suited for a keyboard and mouse.
  
  I've also played PoP 2, and I must say that PoP 3 was an improvement, as the camera angles and 
 puzzles were a lot more convenient, and the addition of 'speed kills' (they're really just stealth 
 kills) is really cool.
  
  The beginning of the game is a little boring due to the fact that you have no powers, so you can't 
 slow down or reverse time, but it works well for allowing a person to learn the basics. Later in 
 the game you do get back the slow-mo and recall abilities, which are really helpful, though thats 
 really no surprise.
  
  The addition of a second character inside of the Prince is amusing as well, because even when the 
 Prince is himself the voice of the second guy talks to him, leading to some rather amusing conversations.
 
  
  Overall, I'd say that Prince of Persia: The Two Thrones is definitely worth the buy, as its one 
 of the only games thats managed to keep me entertained for a long period of time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bharatsingh
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 21, 2006 3:57 pm PT
Review:  i m a pop fan and impressed by final effort of ubisoft pop1 good , pop2 fair, and pop3 perfect 
 . its a mindblowing game. gameplay is superb no frustration good graphics thats all. some part 
 of game its graphics become very bad but it overcome by beautiful gameplay overall its a perfect 
 game and nice to play and a must hav for a prince of persia fan . prince of persia ww was a bit 
 disappointment. but pop3 is great. many type of attacks and mind blowing puzzles it hav all it 
 needs to hav in a hit game. its a perfect game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tutavo
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 10, 2006 4:24 pm PT
Review:  This was the real prince! The persian enviroment, great music, fantastic moves, and lovely story!
 
  The palace reminds the 1989's pop and the city calls back popShadowOfTheFlame. The combination 
 of TSOT and WW is exactly the way it should be, storytelling and prince talking to himself beside 
 great free form fighting system. various kinds of weapons beside finishing moves with the dagger.
 
  one of the most fantastic parts is the speed kill system which is a revolution in pop series, 
 and the story line compelets the work!
  I strongly recommend palying this game, and I'll asure you, it is so addictive that you will even 
 dream of the Prince! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LordRandom
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 7, 2006 11:04 pm PT
Review:  I am playing POP: T2T with an X700pro, 1GB ram at 1024x768, keyboard &amp; mouse
  
  Gameplay:
  Great.
  1. Free form fighting - Kill enemies however you want. You can a) Jump, grab 
 and throw your enemy, b) jump, grab and cut the enemy in the abdomen, c) my fav. a vertical wall 
 run followed by a 360 sword/dagger swing on landing.
  2. Speed Kill - makes gameplay extremely fast. No need to waste time on enemies; just walk to a 
 enemy, BAM, speedkill move on.
  
  Graphics: Average on character models. The prince's eyes are large and weird. Pretty appealing 
 on background and foreground environment. Well done on cinematics - characeters look believable 
 (not Kaileena though) ... and attractive. However, in game graphics are not bad, but weak compared 
 to many other games. But I didn't cry over that as graphics isn't a vital factor to gaming experience.
 
  
  Sound:
  Excellent on voice acting. Background music and sounds are great. The sound when the sword lights 
 up before a speedkill is defnitely heart pounding. Average on sword clashes.
  
  Value:
  For $20 you get relatively long satisfying gameplay, a great story that many games are lacking 
 of, sweet cinematics and unlockable vid. clips. It's worth it.
  
  Pros
  .Immersive storyline
  .Eye candy cinematics
  .Jaw dropping action
  .Extremely fast paced 
 action
  .Free-form combat
  .Unlockables
  .Voice acting
  
  Cons
  .character model
  .weak in-game graphics
  
  Personally, I like action/adventure games. Sad thing is, they don't 
 have much action/adventure games on PC. I love this game and I will play it again when I have the 
 time. The story/cinematices are truly amazing. This games proves that you can have great games 
 without top-notch graphics. I have the ghost recon advanced warfighter game for pc and although 
 it has awesome graphics, I prefer the POP games more than it. It's just a preference. I guess there 
 won't be any POP games anymore, but assassin's creed may possess the same concept as it did. I 
 will be looking forward to that game as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gokazz
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 4, 2006 6:12 am PT
Review:  cool game. its wery nice and good graphics too!!!!!!!!!!!!!! i was stuck at da first boss. it was 
 wery hard when i read da game guide. but it still was awesome. i liked it being the dark prince. i 
 liked to strangle them^___^. But i liked da most its da speed kils. once i did a speed kill on four 
 enemys!!! It was wery awesome to see. but man its is great. i think it was the most gratest po game 
 ever!!!! but i leked the previous pop games. the easiest game was po sot. pop: ww was like t2t .just 
 no dark prince D: 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AmarJ
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 31, 2006 7:00 pm PT
Review:  Well, you can't expect more. It's more than you would have dreamed of. The combat misses a few moves 
 from it's predecessor but the new vicious &amp; quick speed kill combat system tops everything 
 else. The series comes to a fantastic end here (this particularly brought tears to my eyes) . In this 
 game our hero returns to his home but is attacked as soon as he reaches the shores. His love Kaileena 
 is captured by the enemy. And thus the Prince continuous his adventure through the semi-destroyed 
 Babylon hunted as a fugitive. The boss fights are the best that you can find in any game; now, I 
 can bet on it. A few moves have also been added in the platforming of the game. AI is preety good, surely 
 in this game the enemies have a brain as you will find out whlie playing. The traps are brillant 
 and need good timing to be beaten. The game also contains a fair bit of puzzles. The graphics are 
 good though I feel POP2 had better graphics. The soundtracks are soothing
  and contain an Asian touch. All in all it's a great game. You are surely gonna love this. And when 
 you do, just join the Prince of Persia Club union. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: loveunited
Rating: 9.2
Date: Sep 1, 2006 11:31 am PT
Review:  The game is definitely one of the best action / adventure games of the year.. it's fun, the story 
 is interesting. but what bothers me about this game is that's it's much less violent and dark than 
 PoP: Warrior Within , which was the best in the series in my opinion.. but the game's cool anyway.
 
  
  And PlyBogdan u are right.. babylon is not persian at all.. not nowadayws anyway, it's actually 
 an old city in Iraq that was known for it's hight tower -which appears in the icon of the game, 
 loading screen, and in the final scene of the game. And was also known for it's lovely gardens 
 which we did not miss in the game 2.. So Babylon turned out to be an Iraqi city ... so what? PlyBogdan.. 
 the fact that babylon is not actually a persian city does not necessarily make the story off dude.. 
 It's still a game worth playing! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PoP999606
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 5, 2006 11:41 am PT
Review:  The Two Thrones is the third and in my opinion the best PoP game in the series. It has all the 
 best parts from the Sands of Time and Worrior Within, combined in one superb package.
  T2T brings back the absolutly amazing inviroments and open spaces wich from SoT that WW lacket 
 and that was a big flaw for that game. T2T of cource has all the classical elements reqired for 
 a PoP game but that woldn't be enough with out updates and T2T has a lot of em'. Here we have mainly 
 The Dark Prince (TDP) wich is the game's most important new feature. At first I thought that he 
 woldn't change the whole gameplay that much, I knew about the chain and stuff but when I got my 
 hands on that mouse and keyboard well.... I had a pleasent surprise; when you play the dark prince 
 the gameplay changes, it all happens at an alrming rate and the kombat is more intence (talk about 
 the kombat later) the prince is more powerfull his attacks are more ferocius but the enemyes are 
 a lot tougher.
  A nother elemet are the chariot races wich are interesting and chalenging, the puzzels are back 
 and that leaves us with the kombat. The kombat hasn't changed much but the new speed kill is just 
 amzing. Unfotunetly we have the same problems from priveus games in the series mainly the camera; 
 it feals that it's ported from the console version. And the bugs that didn't apear in the preqels 
 that shouden't apear in games like these.
  In conclusion this game is wort playng, and is the best in the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nopenoway0
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 18, 2006 11:01 pm PT
Review:  * Game Play- Gam play is awesome with many different combos, being able to throw weapons, and weapon 
 strip from enemies. Speed Kills are an awsome feature to the two thrones, the variety is amazing!
 
  
  *Graphics- Once again, "Amazing." The Light and Special effects are wicked awsome. So are MOST 
 of the character models. Reason for 9 and not 10 is because of how bland some models, such as Farah 
 look. Such as all their fingers stuck together like a mitten.
  
  *Sound- Is good for the most part. You hear the frequent grunts from when you hit a soldier. And 
 a grunt-like scream when you stab, or cut them in half 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lupus_mortis
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 14, 2006 7:26 am PT
Review:  A nice game living up to the standards it has set.... although i haven't managed to finish it yet 
 ( i am near the end) i keep playing it long enough.... nice game with some easter eggs inside it.
 
  
  Graphics.
  Once again very nice but if you activate AA then the ll become better. more smooth. The videos surrounding 
 the game are nice and help you get you in the story at once.
  
  Sound.
  there i would like to hear some variety but no .... What i liked to this section was the voice of 
 the narrator. Sounded like a fairy tale... even when you pressed the pause button she would say something. when 
 you save she asks you "is this the place i ll continue my story" very nice addition at least to 
 me.
  
  Gameplay
  This is where the game really rocks. Amazing set of moves almost like the Prince is dancing. Learn 
 to use all the combos at least most of them so you ll feel the real power of the game....
  
  All in all to me seems to be an almost classic game and i definitely encourage you to buy it 
 if you are into this games! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: abdulrahiem
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 7, 2006 4:10 pm PT
Review:  This game brings the whole prince of persia series to life... all the gameplay features, the use 
 of the enviroment and the speed kill feature! that was one of the greatest feature in the game... in 
 many games for that matter! this way the incorprated the dark half of the prince was great cuz 
 now you dont only play as one character.... well you do but you noe watch i mean.... also the detailis 
 incredible... like the blood for example is so life like! this is an overall great game and i think 
 it is good for everyone whether you like prince of persia or not!!! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: odessaman66
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 7, 2006 1:04 pm PT
Review:  Having played both previous games I have to say that this one was a disappointment. The introduction 
 of Fast attack just doesn't feel like you accomplish anything. I would have like to see Ubisoft 
 build on the previous games and use more puzzles and less combat. However, the combat is pretty 
 good here and the use of combinations is excellent. I loved the use of the Daggertail. It made 
 the game much more pleasurable. Graphically the game is top notch. Its comparable to most top games 
 out there, this is expected from Ubisoft. I was however disappointed with the difficulty of some 
 of the parts of the game. As a gamer I want to be challenged not frustrated. There are a few parts 
 of the game that just frustrate the * () (# out of me and it really took away from a otherwise great 
 game. Overall its a enjoyable game and it works well. I just wish Ubisoft would have put a little 
 more thought into the gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rockyking
Rating: 9.8
Date: Aug 4, 2006 3:00 pm PT
Review:  The two thrown is a very beautiful and addictive game
  The gameplay is very beautiful it challenge u in every level
  The fighting system that is taken 
 from the Warrior Within joined with fast killing system is very smooth
  The controls r very easy if u had played the previously POP games u will learn them in a 5 minutes 
 if not give yourself 20 minutes at most
  The graphics is very good better than the Warrior Within's graphics but actually I liked the Sand 
 of Time's graphics better and i don't know why Ubisoft made the characters uglier especially Farah
 
  The associating music is very beautiful like the previously POP games I enjoyed it a lot 
  The puzzles are very exiting and u can't be bored while u r trying to solve it
  The Ubisoft company 
 worked so hard on it and they have made a very exiting adds on it like driving the two horses wagon 
 in the Persia streets and the fast killing system yet but i don't know why thy ubisoft canceled 
 the cutting to half and the blood they made the game more childhood
  The best thing in this game is the Dark Prince because the prince and the dark one have a different 
 moves and they speak with each other [ yes they made th Prince CRAZY ]
  The Prince moves are very acrobatic but one the other hand the Dark Prince moves r much faster 
 and bruter
  In this version u will play with more than 5 basic weapons and more than 20 secondary weapons the 
 basic one goe from a kitchens knife to a real Arabic sword and even u can fight with telephone
 
  In a few words I think POP worth buying and play a second time at least 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sam_2006
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 3, 2006 10:09 am PT
Review:  When I heard that the prince is on his way back into a third episode I was thrilled and excited 
 about the different aspects that are going to be added to the great action/adventure game Prince 
 of Persia. I played the sands of time and I was informed that this episode is going to reveal the 
 end of this great trilogy, and so I was more excited when I found out that this third appearance 
 of the prince came right after the end of last episode (warrior within) which I loved too much. 
 well .. let's make this short; Prince of Persia the tow thrones is really a very well done game 
 in all aspects; first the graphics are amazing and have got a great potential, In fact, the prince 
 of persia series have always been great as far as the graphics are concerned. the game play, however, 
 is more than amazing ! it's the strongest aspect of the game; the prince this time has got plenty 
 of moves and the sneaking and stealth kills aspect adds a lot to the game play. Moreover, there 
 is the sound system that is good and the story that makes the greatest and motive number one of 
 playing and enjoying this game... really amazing and fantastic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gentazo
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 2, 2006 4:58 am PT
Review:  Prince of persia "the sands of time" is the first game of this trilogy.
  The game was amazing and stll is. In the sands of time the prince was still
  young and without 
 expirience. And different from the other Pop games.
  The second game "Warior within"is more bruttal and valuence. And also more cool and fantastic. The 
 prince is grown and angriest then before. The
  fighting system of the game is better. In the final game "The two thrones"
  the worrior is upgraded 
 and invulnerable. He has two persinality The good prince and the bad.
  This trilogy is revolutionary. It has a very originaly story line.
  Difficulty is just right and 
 the lerning curve is about 0 to 30 minutes.
  Play the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Canadiancowboy2
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 23, 2006 11:43 pm PT
Review:  I have been a big fan of the prince of persia series even the old ones that came out in the early 
 90's. In this game Prince of Persia: The Two throwns, The Prince comes back to his home town of 
 Babylon only to discover his kindom is under attack. So after your ship is sunk your "lover" kelenna 
 is captured and killed by the Vizier and releases the sands of time again. only this time you are 
 effected by them and so the game goes on for you to undo the sands once again, reclaime your kingdom 
 and kill the Vizier. Suprisingly Fara is back and she really kicks ass this time compared to the 
 frst Prince of perisa: the sands of time.
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay is very good in this game. It mixes the freeform fighting with the first 
 prince of persia game feel to it. There is now speed or quick kill mode to quickly take out your 
 Enemy's which makes the game go faster instead to always haveing to confront and fight the enemy. 
 Every now and then you switch over to the dark prince like Dr. Jakell and Mr. Hyde because you 
 are affected by the sand and you get this chain weapon that you can use to strangle people and 
 do a whole bunch of whip attacks on your foes. You have the dagger of time again so you no longer 
 have a swords like in the second game. The Puzzles and fighting are better woven together i found 
 then the second game. in the second game it got a bit confusing where I was going at times. 
  
  Graphics: The Graphics are great. Love them they brought back the sands of time graphics and 
 jacked up the look of the graphics. compared to the second one where everything seemed a little 
 smaller then usuall, maybe thats just me.
  
  Sound: The sound is good but the voice acting for the dark prince could of been better.
  
  
 Value: Prince of Persia: The Two throwns has great replay value, once you finish it on a certain 
 difficaulty level you can challange yourself on a harder skill level.
  
  All in all i found this game very enjoyable and everyone who likes action adventure games or a 
 cauale gamer should play or get. The only thing is that I think that it was easyier to control 
 on consels but still a good game. Try playing the origianl Prince of perisa games but you may or 
 may not like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vufor
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 20, 2006 11:44 pm PT
Review:  I dont want to start from the begining, all we know the story better than prince itself :)
  
  Well, just want to mention about PP: Sands of Time and PP: Warrior Within (my fav. so far) 
 and now here is coming up the finishing part of this blended trilogy. 
  
  To be honest first thing which we should talk about this game is the Ubisoft dev's effort to satisfy 
 both type of the prince fans. Well, the effort I think satisfied bith sides with both princes'.
 
  
  1. Just old times really loving and ccaring prince
  2. Manish and blade-runer, Drak Prince that is the word to describe him.! :)
  
  (I prefer both 
 of them but in one... as it was in Warrior Within) . 
  However, the effort itself really worth appreciation from both sides.
  
  Ok lets back to game.... 
 What to say
  
  Storyline great as it was whole time, starting with great cutscene.... and story tellling the truth. 
 
  And Here you go starts reall battle for the life and death. Again dev's gave us a choise for end, 
 fight wether with Vizir or with your own shaddow, with Dark Prince. BTW, from first go I end up 
 in the battle with my own shaddow. Nice one. For this you will need to collect all life upgrades 
 as it was in previous part.
  Well through out game you will be facing with different creatures and obstraction which became 
 more complicated and enjoyable to pass them.
  New system of traps and features is just made game more beatiful.
  
  Graphichs in game is the 
 same perfection and looks even better, but still same old with water and fire effects not so perfect. 
 Well anyway, that is not a main thing. There are more relatively nice views to talk about.
  
  Sound is wasn't so impressive in this part as well, well lets hope that all this glitches will 
 be fixed in next coming game. (looking forward :) )
  
  Other significant change as we talked above is new pers in game the Dark Prince..... his just smashing 
 devilish part of the prince. 
  
  Weapons in this game wasn't that much variable as it was in WW, however wasn't that bad. I mean 
 main weapons.
  
  Other stuff I leav to you to find out in game.
  
  P. S. This part was a bit short...... Just wanted to tell you....:)
  
  Enjoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vegito1669
Rating: 9.2
Date: Sep 11, 2006 4:09 pm PT
Review:  this game brings the whole prince of persia series to life... all the gameplay features, the use 
 of the enviroment and the speed kill feature! that was one of the greatest feature in the game... in 
 many games for that matter! this way the incorprated the dark half of the prince was great cuz 
 now you dont only play as one character.... well you do but you noe watch i mean.... also the detailis 
 incredible... like the blood for example is so life like! this is an overall great game and i think 
 it is good for everyone whether you like prince of persia or not!!! 
  controls are sorta tricky fo the PC.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smartass21
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 3, 2006 6:19 am PT
Review:  Prince of Persia The Two Thrones is one of the best action-adventure game in the world . In this 
 game the prince return in Babylon with the queen of sands of time . She is soon killed and the 
 sands affect the prince giving him a second personality .This is the prince of darkness and he 
 has all of the princes rage ,furry , ruthless .He must take back the city and defeat the prince 
 of darkness .
  I finished prince of Persia in two days , unlike pop two which took me a month too finish. Great 
 story ,good graphics and amazing game play .
  I highly recommend this game . 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: popovicsasa
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 19, 2006 12:36 am PT
Review:  What to say accept UBISOFT GREAT WORK.. 
  Just keep like this.
  
  Exellent, cool game,....
  If you like this kind of games, just play it and you will see what 
 I'm talking about....
  
  Ubisoft we support you. Give us 3 part, pleaseeeeeeeee :)
  
  We are waiting :)
  
   
 play play play play play play play play play it
  play it play it play it play it play it play it play it play it play it play it play it play it 
 play it play it play it play it play it play it play it play it play it play it play it play it 
 play it play it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HAMODA
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 15, 2006 3:58 am PT
Review:  The games never is borried, because always there something new. The free-form fighting gives to 
 the player the diversity styles for kill all the guards during the game. for this reasons I think 
 tht ubisoft has to do another continuation of these games. The three games are awesome. In this 
 third game the prince has a different attitude that makes the game more interesant. The game is 
 excellent but I want to know the prince name. This because in the three games I don't listen his 
 name. What name do you think that he have. ?????????????????????? This game is for people who appreciate 
 the good quality games. Really the game is very interesant. And if you don't have play the others 
 two, I recommend that play them now. Because they are very, very, very interestant. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mosE_D
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 10, 2006 7:46 am PT
Review:  This game is GREAT! . Unlike the other two parts of this trilogy this one brings a certain touch 
 .
  Even if is not as long as Prince of Persia Warrior Within witch in my opinion is the longest and 
 had the biggest impact on the market POP3 is beautiful. It had the perfect ending and itself is 
 the GRAND FINALLE! For me there are some things that I didnt wanted to be changed! For example: 
 the PS2 version has features that the PC version doesnt. Even so the guys from Ubisoft did a very 
 good job! From me 2 U  I LOVE U ... keep up the good work! 
  And if you want to see more log on to this site: http://www. princeofpersiagame. com/uk/ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zephyrwwong
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 7, 2006 7:33 pm PT
Review:  Masterpiece!!
  Ubi always make something unexpected~!! 
  The prince's story is going exciting and exciting, but that ends. It'd better to the end, I think 
 it just like 1001 nights, a fairy-tale, a legend which exist in the players. It's so classy, so 
 fantasic. may just like the legend of Rayman series, and Warcraft series. They worth to play whole 
 again, except the PSP type. It worth what you cost~! The puzzles are not easy to solve, but it 
 worths you to think. The element of acting are very marvelous as well. But the sound of the game 
 are not so well.
  Anyways the whole series seems like a Mission Impossible in Persia. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tosmove
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 6, 2006 11:45 pm PT
Review:  Following in the footsteps of the 2 before it, Prince of Persia: The Two Thrones is the best in 
 the series in my eyes. It has many challenging puzzles and ways to destroy the enemy. Giving it 
 a God of War feel to the game. One major part of this game that got my attention was being able 
 to be 2 character as you play. Each with different moves and ability. Using silent kills are another 
 awesome features of this game, as well as being able to pick up the enemys weapon. Giving you 
 different attacks you can use until that weapon breaks. Very cool. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gidzis
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 1, 2006 9:44 am PT
Review:  Men it was great. I've enjoed very much. But i'm little disapointed of the story line. Men it was 
 great. I've enjoed very much. But i'm little disapointed of the story line. Men it was great. I've 
 enjoed very much. But i'm little disapointed of the story line. Men it was great. I've enjoed very 
 much. But i'm little disapointed of the story line. Men it was great. I've enjoed very much. But 
 i'm little disapointed of the story line. Men it was great. I've enjoed very much. But i'm little 
 disapointed of the story line. Men it was great. I've enjoed very much. But i'm little disapointed 
 of the story line. Men it was great. I've enjoed very much. But i'm little disapointed of the story 
 line. Men it was great. I've enjoed very much. But i'm little disapointed of the story line. Men 
 it was great. I've enjoed very much. But i'm little disapointed of the story line. Men it was great. 
 I've enjoed very much. But i'm little disapointed of the story line. Men it was great. I've enjoed 
 very much. But i'm little disapointed of the story line. Men it was great. I've enjoed very much. 
 But i'm little disapointed of the story line. Men it was great. I've enjoed very much. But i'm little 
 disapointed of the story line. Men it was great. I've enjoed very much. But i'm little disapointed 
 of the story line. Men it was great. I've enjoed very much. But i'm little disapointed of the story 
 line. Men it was great. I've enjoed very much. But i'm little disapointed of the story line. Men 
 it was great. I've enjoed very much. But i'm little disapointed of the story line. Men it was great. 
 I've enjoed very much. But i'm little disapointed of the story line. Men it was great. I've enjoed 
 very much. But i'm little disapointed of the story line. Men it was great. I've enjoed very much. 
 But i'm little disapointed of the story line. Men it was great. I've enjoed very much. But i'm little 
 disapointed of the story line. Men it was great. I've enjoed very much. But i'm little disapointed 
 of the story line. Men it was great. I've enjoed very much. But i'm little disapointed of the story 
 line. Men it was great. I've enjoed very much. But i'm little disapointed of the story line. Men 
 it was great. I've enjoed very much. But i'm little disapointed of the story line. Men it was great. 
 I've enjoed very much. But i'm little disapointed of the story line. Men it was great. I've enjoed 
 very much. But i'm little disapointed of the story line. Men it was great. I've enjoed very much. 
 But i'm little disapointed of the story line. Men it was great. I've enjoed very much. But i'm little 
 disapointed of the story line. Men it was great. I've enjoed very much. But i'm little disapointed 
 of the story line. Men it was great. I've enjoed very much. But i'm little disapointed of the story 
 line. Men it was great. I've enjoed very much. But i'm little disapointed of the story line. Men 
 it was great. I've enjoed very much. But i'm little disapointed of the story line. Men it was great. 
 I've enjoed very much. But i'm little disapointed of the story line. Men it was great. I've enjoed 
 very much. But i'm little disapointed of the story line. Men it was great. I've enjoed very much. 
 But i'm little disapointed of the story line. Men it was great. I've enjoed very much. But i'm little 
 disapointed of the story line. Men it was great. I've enjoed very much. But i'm little disapointed 
 of the story line. Men it was great. I've enjoed very much. But i'm little disapointed of the story 
 line. Men it was great. I've enjoed very much. But i'm little disapointed of the story line. Men 
 it was great. I've enjoed very much. But i'm little disapointed of the story line. Men it was great. 
 I've enjoed very much. But i'm little disapointed of the story line. Men it was great. I've enjoed 
 very much. But i'm little disapointed of the story line. Men it was great. I've enjoed very much. 
 But i'm little disapointed of the story line. Men it was great. I've enjoed very much. But i'm little 
 disapointed of the story line. v  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_trooper92
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 27, 2006 6:13 pm PT
Review:  The Two Thrones follows the ending of Warrior Within in which the Prince kills the Dahaka and successfully 
 alters Kaileena's (The Empress of Time) fate. While on a ship en route to his home city of Babylon, 
 the Prince tosses the magical medallion overboard, as he no longer needs it. Promising Kaileena 
 that no harm would come to her in Babylon, upon returning he is horrified to learn that his city 
 has been ravaged by war. Additionally, his ship is attacked which results in both the Prince and 
 Kaileena being thrown overboard, although Kaileena is taken prisoner after drifting ashore.
  
  The Prince embarks an adventure for saving Kaileena form the hands of the monsters, in this 
 trip he gets good strength and ability when suddenly he meets with the Vizier (the old man that 
 appeared as a boss at the end of Sands of Time) and sees Kaileena been killed by him. What a bad 
 moment for the Prince... But that is not all, Kaileena is dead but the Sands of Time has been spread 
 around the city of Babylon so the Prince embarks another adventure to save the city of Babylon 
 from the hands of evil.
  
  I wanted to thanks Ubisoft because you have made the best game ever!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gurusigma
Rating: 10
Date: May 22, 2006 7:14 pm PT
Review:  It keeps the feel that has been going throughout the Prince of Persia series. All of the PoP games 
 I've played are increasingly good in quality and feel.
  
  The soundtrack to this game was very well designed, it advances along with the storyline and knows 
 exactly where to start or stop. I wished that they had made some more loops for in-battle scenes. 
 
  
  Cinematics are top of the line, the best I've seen in a game so far. And working in the industry 
 of gaming with Alienware's ALX series, I can tell you, I've seen hundreds of cinematics along the 
 road.
  
  Graphics, and specially I have to mention the lighting, were very well done. Not too resource-hungry, 
 as I'm able to run it at a great performance (without too much AA) on my Powercolor ATI 9600 Pro 
 256MB. It doesn't require too much to get started. 
  
  The storyline is mystifying, specially when accompanied with tons of in-game engine recorded scenes. 
 The only downside to this is having to wait for the scene to play, which was something the previous 
 title (Warrior Within) had in advantage. There used to be a fast-forward cinematic function that 
 was very handy, but they took it out of this game for some reason...
  
  Controls are awesome... real-time fighting with up to 6 monsters at the time... in this game it 
 didn't matter that the monsters are repetitive, since there was plenty of variety and substance 
 to fight against. Each of them with their tricks and approaches and favorite weapons. Plenty of 
 really cool moves to pull by triggering combos! 
  
  The level of difficulty, even on Easy mode, is quite challenging. It's a very fast-paced story-guided 
 action game, and I definitely loved it. I give it a 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: insanewolfninja
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 20, 2006 12:42 am PT
Review:  ahhh yes the prince is back and this time no crappy rock music. in this new addtion you get a fighting 
 system called speed killing of course you still have the free form fighting system from warror 
 within. the speed kill system is like mgs3se cqc but this you have to press a certian button at 
 a certian time. the sound is wonderful great beautiful war music. the grapics are gorgeus who says 
 the Xbox is the best looking grapicly system around, I mean the gamecube has some dang good looking 
 games that are better then most stuF on the big x. ther isint that much replay value to be found 
 here with alternate endings and seceret weapons and even though we all like weapons this doesent 
 
  really do the trick. all love weapons. the controls are nice smooth no problems there. if you looking 
 for a action adventure game and you havent considerd looking for this game rhen you might want 
 to reconsider 
::::::

::::::
UserName: praharsh22
Rating: 10
Date: May 1, 2006 11:01 am PT
Review:  Certainly the best in the series. I enjoy playing the game a lot. It has great graphics and the 
 fight sequences are wonderful. The boss fights are quite tough but it's great fun to play. The 
 story has been superbly made. The game becomes further more interesting when the price transforms 
 into the dark prince. The stunts performed by the prince are wonderful to watch. Some times it 
 might become difficult to find your way but that's where the fun lies. The gameplay and the sound 
 are wonderful. The price you pay for the game is worth it. 
  This game is a must have for everyone. There is nothing which the game does not have..... it has 
 everything. Mark my words "THIS GAME IS AWESOME". 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bulldawg8879
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 21, 2006 10:04 am PT
Review:  I had nothing to go on buying this game I just bought it knowing the prince of Persia games are 
 always good and this one may be the best one yet or a tie with sands of time. The game adds a lot 
 of small touches and additions like new moves you can do like shimmying between two close together 
 walls and holes in walls where you need to stick your dagger to hold on. Stealth kills are a great 
 idea for the series and I think should continue into the other games. By pressing the E button 
 at certain times when behind an enemy the game takes over and by timeing the attack button to when 
 the dagger and screen glows will hurt the enemy. Most of the boss battles use this as well to good 
 effect. The dark prince I didnt like playing as much but the daggertail that you can swing across 
 ledges and use as a whip are very cool. The dark princes health drains as you go along and will 
 kill you if you dont get sand in time. Ah and dont forget the chariot races which are brief but 
 fun. Also at one point a giant monster attacks you and as you bring him to his knees u run up and 
 plant your dagger in the back of his head allowing you to control him as you have to run through 
 a somewhat long hallway without crashing into a wall. The graphics are bright most of the time 
 compared to the dark atmosphere of warrior within which I thought wasnt as good as these two games. 
 The music also is better than the hard rock of warrior within returning more to the original games 
 music. Im not sure but I think the voice of the prince from sands of time are back in this one 
 which most preferred to the warrior within voice. I think the story might not make as much sense 
 to someone who hadnt played the previous two games though. One bad thing is at the end of warrior 
 within you kill the empress of time but she returns with the prince to Babylon at the beginning 
 of the game. The game even says that most think that I had killed her but that is not the case 
 something like that. Overall this game just plain kicks ass. It is more difficult than the other 
 two as well sometimes getting me stuck for quite awhile. But anyone who likes the pop games will 
 love this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: george33387
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 20, 2006 3:11 pm PT
Review:  Prince of Persia the Two thrones like the other two titles left me amazed. The game was an excellent 
 scenario sequel and also it had that new gameplay features to revive your interest on the game. 
 So lets have a closer look at all this stuff. 
  
  Scenario
  
  The prince returns to Babylon with Kaileena and finds his city into flames. Kaillena get captured 
 and before he can save her she is killed by (!) the Vizier of TsoT. He reappears because as the 
 Sands were never created they were never brought to Azad and so the prince didnt open them in 
 order to chase the Vizier afterwards. 
  But this time the vizier manages to transform into an immortal monster because Kailena with her 
 death releases the Sands of Time! Most of Babylons population become sand monsters and the Prince 
 now has for a time to chase and kill the Vizier in order to reclaim its throne. All this way for 
 nothing! But for an unknown reason (maybe because of the extreme use of the sands) into the Prince 
 raises a dark spirit that is actually his corrupted self and that gradually possesses him. So whose 
 throne is goanna being at last? Will the prince himself reclaim it or he will have been totally 
 transformed into the dark prince by that time?
  
  Gameplay
  
  Prince of Persia the two thrones comes with an all new feature as an additive to the Free Form 
 Fighting System like we known it in WW and which still exists. When you find enemies you sneak 
 and get each one separately from its back and with a combination of hits you do by pressing the 
 dagger-strike button at the right moments youll kill all of them one by one before they can react. 
 This feature which requires total synchronization is very entertaining but its also vital, especially 
 when youre playing the game at hard difficulty level where just one more hit can make the difference 
 between life and death.
  Another new feature is the chariot races. You have to ride on a chariot a specific path at breakneck 
 speed with enemies trying to stop you by jumping into your chariot and making ambushes. Its one 
 of the coolest features in the game! However it disappointed me the fact that there are only (!) 
 two races in all the game! From the previews and the trailers of the game which I saw I expected 
 them to be a routine through all the game. 
  Also a good feature of is that in the game you will also sometimes play as the dark prince! The 
 dark prince uses a deadly weapon called the daggertail with which you can defeat several enemies 
 in a few moments! But you have to keep in mind that your life bar gradually falls as times pass 
 when you act the dark prince (its like the sandwraith of WW) . So its a race against time, where 
 you dont have the time to think your moves you just jump and pray that there is something to 
 grab!
  Also the environment has changed, as except from the palaces and gardens you will also travel on 
 the rooftops of Babylons houses which gives a new dimension to the game.
  One disadvantage of the Gameplay is that the FFS battles miss in something from the beauty of WW, 
 and this is why it gets a 9.
  
  Graphics-Sound
  
  The graphics have been improved a little (but dont except much) with better textures and more 
 polygons. Fires and water FW more realistic also. Another think is that they improved the Human 
 models especially these of the secondary characters like Farahs and the Viziers.
  Now about his soundtrack it seems that after the Heavy metal-Rock of WW Stuart Chatwood decided 
 to return to the Arabic style melodies which we missed from TsoT but this does not mean that rock 
 elements have completely disappeared. 
  The SFX sounds are mostly the same from the two previous titles, with small changes.
  
  Value
 
  
  Prince of Persia the The Thrones is a nice game and I think that it concludes wonderfully this 
 trilogy and the thrill of The Prince of Persia. Dont miss it!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Oblivion_20
Rating: 8.2
Date: Apr 15, 2006 6:07 am PT
Review:  Good work Ubisoft, but it isn't perfect. 
  
  For First, the graphics is the Prince Of Persia's sands of Time's graphic... it's old, now! you 
 will have to make a new graphic! I hope for the next gen's console... (if PoP's serie will continue) 
 
  Then, the sounds are good, but I think that, ok, in Prince Of Persia Warrior within are terrible, 
 but in Sands of time are very well. Attention, I am not telling you that the sounds are terrible 
 in Two Trones, only that in SoT was better.
  The gameplay is good on the consoles, but on the PC, if you don't have a gamepad...
  The game 
 is short, but not like SoT and WW.
  I think that it's a game that it have to be tried. 
  
  PS: The Dark Prince wasn't a good idea. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ariel_king
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 14, 2006 1:09 pm PT
Review:  I played this game and I was really impresed by it.
  
  Gameplay: If you played the previous game then you will probaly know what to expect from this. 
 You have the same deadly combos, the same great storyline and the same great enemies. But that 
 isn't all. This year then added the fast kill mode which is basiclly matrix. When you are in fast 
 kill mode a light will come and when that light comes you need to press a button and then it will 
 do a deadly combo. The great feature for this game is the bosses which are unbelivible. There is 
 a creature like 12 meters and you need to kill him like God of War style.
  
  Graphics: The graphics in this game aren't much of improval then last year's game. Althought the 
 animations are new and really cool and deadly, the character desigh are the same and the areas 
 are the same.
  
  Sound: If you played any of the versions then you will probaly going to recognize the beautiful 
 music and sound effects. The music is nicely done and the sound effects are really cool.
  
  Value: You can play this game for hours and hours trying to finish the game. The storyline is really 
 long and the game itself is really hard. The other feature that they added is that you can play 
 as dark prince which his life falls slowly so it is really hard to finish your mission with him.
 
  
  Reviewer's tilt: Overall this game is a beautiful action game and you should definitely want to 
 go and try this one out even if you are new in the series and even if you don't. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: themubashir
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 14, 2006 11:16 am PT
Review:  So Finally the amazing Prince Of Persia series comes to an end.
  And does it live up two the class of the first 2 games.??
  You bet it does.
  
  STORY - The 
 Prince of Persia returns from the Island Of Time to Babylon
  with his love Kaileena. He finds that His hometown (Babylon) is 
  torn by war and the kingdom 
 is against him.
  The Prince is captured and soon discovers that past battles have 
  given rise to a dark Prince who gradually posseses him.
  POP TT provides with a highly satisfying 
 end and will keep you 
  glued to U R PC's till the very end.
  POP TT also marks the return of the 2 main characters from 
  Sands Of Time ,The Vizier and the 
 Hot Indian Princess Farah.
  The Story is one of the best you'll ever hear. Everything is so well 
  explained.
  
  GAMEPLAY 
 - Gameplay in POP TT is a vast improvement compared to its 
  predecessors. The Prince can now perform many more gravity 
  defying moves and acrobatics.
  
 There is also an added element of Stealth in POP TT.
  Now you can Finish off your enemies without them knowing.
  When you are playing as the dark Prince, 
 there are different 
  moves u can perform. A new weapon called "Daggertail" also 
  helps the Prince to peform more moves and acrobatics.
  Also a new 'Speed Kill' system and Chariot 
 races have been 
  thrown in for good measure.
  The POP TT has mind boggling puzzles similar to the past 2 
  games.
  
  SOUND - Sound in POP 
 TT is just too good. Excellent Music will follow the 
  Prince in every lane of Babylon.
  Voice acting is top notch.
  
  GRAPHICS - Graphics in POP TT is quite good. Its not a major improvement 
 
  from POP WW, but has a very grim feel to it.
  The Cutscenes and Cinematics are just awesome. A visual 
  treat to the eyes.
  
  PROS - The 
 Free-Form Fighting , Mind Boggling Puzzles , Excellent Story.
  New Speed Kill and Stealth, Chariot races , Cutscenes and the 
  list goes on and on.
  
  CONS 
 - Quite Short , Difficult at times.
  
  All in all If you want a game that you can play for hours on end, hard and challenging, extremely 
 rewarding, and beautiful in most ways, I highly suggest you get this game, and for those of you 
 who believe that video games should be a walk in the park, stay away from this at all costs.
  A must buy for all Prince of Persia fans.
  
  Advice - "If you havent played the First 2 parts 
 dont play this one as you may not appreciate the brilliancy of the excellent story"
  Play the first 2 games before this one.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: trokoko
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 13, 2006 7:23 am PT
Review:  I played warrior within and i was impressed, but then i got this game and it was like twice bether! 
 Story is bether and more times steps in game, sound is prety good, and cool is that you can sneek 
 at somebody`s back and do a quick kill-pretty cool act :-) , and riding horses it tilts like never, 
 and the best is that it has very unicque bosses that makes this game shine.
  bad is graficks, but i hade a grafick card 6600 gt so it was perfectlly working on my pc, and it 
 is little bit too short:- (-i really dont find weak spots thought.
  so this game is best and controls are same than on previous games so i recommend it to people who 
 has played previus game.
  It has all that has warrior within and it adds much more.
  YOU HAVE TO PLAY  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadibm
Rating: 8.2
Date: Apr 11, 2006 10:56 pm PT
Review:  New, thats the first thing comes to my mind when I went through the game
  
  Just when I though that this is it, and I know all that I need to know about the 
  
  Prince, 
 I end up finding new characters, new movements, and new environments 
  
  Even the old characters from part 1 Sands of Time are reintroduced in a 
  
  Quality way
  
 
  The graphics are really amazing and the city design is really touching
  
  Maybe the soundtracks and music were the best in the second part Warrior
  
  Within but they 
 were Ok, I guess, in this part
  
  I just had a really wonderful experience playing this part just as I did in the first two
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: neohaker
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 9, 2006 8:23 am PT
Review:  Two Thrones has an excellent graphics and a fine game play and right justification in the way ubisoft 
 unravelled the story. The speed kill were cool, except for those puzzels they were not as cool as 
 the warrior within
  but the story being a major plus to the game glues u to finish it. This is shorter one compared 
 to its predecessors. sound has improved a lot in this one. And the Dark prince is really dark in 
 his speed kills and thoughts.
  The ending balanced the story well. The thing to admit the warrior within gameplay is the best but 
 still its really worth playing this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lotrfan_1
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 1, 2006 2:46 pm PT
Review:  Finally, after years of sifting through action games that are built to be finished by a beginner 
 in a couple of weeks comes Prince of Persia 3. This game has to be one of the first games in a 
 long time to require skill from the player, rather than unbelievable odds stacked in the players 
 favor.
  
  Throughout the game, you must guide the young prince through his home town, fighting countless 
 foes with stealth, and acrobatic moves that just look plain cool. Not to mention, that for the 
 first time, you get to play two characters, as the new Dark Prince is also available, adding a 
 different style of play all together. As the Prince, you must use your acrobatic skills to gain 
 entry to areas, kill enemies, and generally wreak havoc, and as the Dark Prince, you must use your 
 Dagger tail to slay countless enemies, and show them whose boss. 
  
  The graphics in the game are amazing, with only a few problems with textures in some areas, but 
 other than that, they are immersing, stylish, and great looking.
  
  The sound of the game has been used to great effect, with low mellow music setting the middle eastern 
 mood, and giving it a nice atmosphere, the only problem being that some of the voice acting is 
 a bit off (he has an American accent???) .
  
  If you want a game that you can play for hours on end, is devilishly hard and challenging, extremely 
 rewarding, and beautiful in most ways, I highly suggest you get this game, and for those of you 
 who believe that video games should be a walk in the park, stay away from this at all costs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tears_in_hell
Rating: 4.2
Date: Mar 27, 2006 5:27 pm PT
Review:  Teh constatly loops itself, The first prince of persia for ps2 was fantastic, and origonal platformish 
 type game with amazing phics and enjoyable gameplay, 
  
  the only thing better about this edition, is the gore, the fighting is enjoyable at first, but 
 then you encounter bastard enemies who throw stars at you or something, and they vanish, upon encountering 
 these dreaded beast, i bacome completely and utterly bored sensless
  
  then you encounter 1 after the other of these annoying enemies who literally do nothing but piss 
 you off much yes.
  
  the sight of a huge maze of ledges and pipes, delivers itself as an awful, borinf tediius task 
 rather than a 'most fun journey'
  
  Its constant looping bored the liveing dayligths out of me, and the black beasts in which you have 
 to run up there backs, TEDIUS
  
  tis a task, not a game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: muss02
Rating: 2.3
Date: Mar 27, 2006 12:47 pm PT
Review:  I saw commercials and the game looked fun and entertaining. The Sands of Time was fun so I told 
 myself "This game will be cool!" Well, it was about as cool as getting crap in a box. I was bored 
 after playing for an hour the only reason I kept playing is the story kept me going, but left me 
 disappointed in the end. Some parts are cool and very ambitious like the chariot racing, the only 
 problem is you can't save in the middle of the race and I was left pounding the keys off my keyboard 
 after starting over from the start the 90 th time. Graphics looked outdated, sound was decent and 
 puzzles where just annoying. If you haven't realized it by now I suggest you skip (or burn) this 
 title and pick something good like Elder Scrolls, Oblivion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tusa04
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 26, 2007 4:15 am PT
Review:  I loved POP2 better than the first one, simply because the combat system was so great, and the 
 story was complex yet logical. The problem with the story? It wasn't exactly magical. It also left 
 some of the typical Prince of Persia feeling behind, the save-the-princes,  
 feeling. It was more the other way around - the prince you played was cold, egoistic and bitter. 
 In the end (the non-alternative ending, that is) he is save and all, but it doesn't make you feel 
 all warm and fuzzy inside. Something's missing. The magic. Oh, and the boss fights were too hard. 
 I actually didn't finish the last boss fight until today, to be honest. It's a lot easier once 
 you figure out the way to beat her: After she slows time, immediately slow yourself - and exploit 
 the unfair advantage with lots of combos. And YES, I beat all three parts as of today :-P Now imagine 
 the 3rd part, The Two Thrones, having all those great combat moves from the 2nd one (and more, 
 with speedkills when you sneak up on enemies) , and the magic that made the original series and 
 the first part of the latest trilogy so great. A princess to save, the prince coming back to his 
 former great self (literally, you'll see) . With all this being said, let's look at some screenshots: 
 The elements that make PoP so cool are all here. The fights still look awesome and feel great, 
 but there's an added tactical element. While the combat in the first part consisted of can I kill 
 it with the jump-attack or do i have to use the wall-attack , with all monsters being immune to 
 either one or none of these. The added options from the 2nd part are still there, plus the speedkills. 
 Those are only useable if you sneak up on the enemies, thus some fights actually have to be planned 
 beforehand. Special attacks and combos are also still much stronger than regular attacks, so they 
 should be used as often as possible. And then there's the dark prince - after some time for getting 
 used to his unique style, playing him feels awesome - and he adds an element of time pressure too. 
 Tick tock. Then, the puzzles. The first part had tons, the second part had quite a few, and the 
 third part goes back to having tons. Which is good. Great, even, actually. Finally, the story. 
 The first part was straightforward, like on rails, the second part was quite the opposite. I actually 
 got lost once or twice there when I played the game for the first time. Adventure-like, sure, but 
 going through the same places over and over while looking for the one place where the story would 
 continue got rather boring fast. The third part goes back to an approach between the two, closer 
 to the rails approach, but sometimes with multiple ways to reach a platform or something. I liked 
 that too. All in all, it's a great ending to a great trilogy. Worthy successor of both the magical 
 atmosphere of the first and the great fights of the second part. Oh, and the boss fights were too 
 hard. Especially the ring of fire one. The end boss was better this time around though :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wizoforb
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 19, 2006 8:14 pm PT
Review:  The amazing mechanics in this game are outstanding in my opinion! Being able to run along walls, 
 and having to perform various stunts in order to proceed through the game are unique, and just 
 basically Cool! This game takes me to the edge of my seat when seeing the acrobat moves I must 
 do in order to pass certain levels. Very nerve wrecking at times when all you have is a poll that's 
 50, or more feet up into the air to maneuver on. The graphics are outstanding with nice shades, 
 and lighting the music/sound effects are also a great added bonus to this game. Very clean, and 
 indulging.. The plot is unique in it's own way I suppose. I like the slow motion quick/death sequences 
 also. Having to be quick on your button mashing to execute the death blow, or your pushed off to 
 face the foe hand to hand. This is the best of it's series in my opinion also. It's a must buy 
 for those puzzle/tomb raider type players! This game is way better than Tomb Raider by the way!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xiaophong
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 17, 2006 9:24 am PT
Review:  POP 3 is the best in the whole triligy, many improvements have been made towards the previous games. 
 This game lets you play as the dark prince and the prince, the combat is most satisflying. The 
 game keeps the princes'
  old combos from warrior within and added a new speed kill element, which are very stasfying to 
 watch. Playing as the dark prince you will become a better warrior than the prince, the combat 
 will be solid and much more easy.
  The graphics are the best in this game, for pc users make sure that you have a good video card. 
 The sound has been improved, in WW most of it is heavy metal. But Ubisoft has decided to change 
 it this time, the music is played by an orchastra.
  
  The good: beautiful graphics, nice sound engine, playing as the dark prince is reall fun.
  
 
  The bad: no replay value ( imo ) , and what happened to all those weapons in WW? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mahmoudscience
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 15, 2006 3:24 pm PT
Review:  This game reached a level never been reached before, when i finished this game , i found difficulty 
 to play any other game , there is no match for this game .
  i think the single player game been so short , i expected this part will be a long one but this 
 was the only disadvantage of this game.
  i think ubisoft is one of the best gaming companies in the whole world 
  all the games good and 
 sophisticated .
  this comppany realy respects the gamers.
  iam expecting a new part of this game or i will commit a suicide. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kawpai
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 14, 2006 9:44 am PT
Review:  - Gameplay -
  
  The gameplay is almost identical to the first two with the exception of a few things. You will 
 be familiar with most of the combos you picked up in Warrior Within, in addition to a couple of 
 new moves. The Prince runs, climbs, swings and shimmies as elegant and graceful as ever, which 
 you need to master given all platforming you need to do in this edition.
  
  The three best new moves are the knife climbing, pole sitting and the speed kill. No longer will 
 you be able to see the Prince use his dagger to still himself at the edge of the cliff only in 
 the video sequences; you'd actually be able to pull it off (quite a lot) during the game and it 
 adds a different perspective on the gameplay, since you'd have to look at distances quite differently 
 in this game. The pole sitting is an interesting feature that allows you to not only swing on poles, 
 but to actually pull yourself up to sit on them, and then jump straight ahead or vertically to 
 your liking. Speed kills add a new dimension to the fun and gameplay, since now you can sneak up 
 on enemies and kill them instantly by timed dagger sequences. It's not only fun and more efficient, 
 but it also saves you quite a lot of group fights later on. Speed kills are also critical for all 
 the boss battles, so they're quite unique and fun.
  
  There's also the addition of two instances of chariot "racing", but how much fun you will have 
 depends on how many sandtanks you have left plus your natural tolerance to repetition (in the case 
 of your demise) . They're quite fun though.
  
  The Dark Prince though, is another story. His sequences in the game are more interesting yet frustrating, 
 since his health is constantly depleting at a very fast rate. You can recover your health though 
 by collecting sand, which shouldn't be a problem except near the end of the game.
  
  The Dark Prince has some moves of his own of course, since he uses a chain as well as the dagger 
 to attack. The chain is extremely powerful, and also serves as a "rope" to cross yourselves across 
 chasms. You'll need to get used to the idea of having long jumps and making use of the environment 
 with the Dark Prince, since in the later parts of the game his sequences get pretty rough.
  
  My main gripe about the gameplay is that it is too much rooftops and little castle. Warrior 
 Within's castle was superb and left only a little to be desired. While T2T gave outdoors and city 
 quite a load, running through the streets and on rooftops feels like Aladdin rather than Prince 
 of Persia. You do eventually get to the castle, but the amount of time you spend there is almost 
 negligible. While the story demands outdoors, it is still sad not to enjoy a grand castle with 
 all the glory.
  
  Overall, while mostly the same, the new additions to the gameplay add a new dimention of fun to 
 the game as well as serve a purpose in the story.
  
  - Graphics -
  
  I played it on the PC, so it is graphics-card dependent. I played it on a 64 Mobility Radeon 9000 
 with the latest Omega Drivers, and the graphics were very decent with a solid framerate. I had 
 a bit of glitches but again, it is because of the drivers.
  
  Regardless, Babylon is very bright and lighthearted compared to the depressing castle in Warrior 
 Within (and there are no bloody splash screens here to boot) . The lighting effects are great and 
 the city is beautifully rendered, in and out. Unfortunately, the "grand" rooms are rare, unlike 
 the previous game, so you really do not get a sense of scale. But there isn't quite a lot of improvement 
 overall. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nawras
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 11, 2006 10:29 am PT
Review:  
  | Story
  
  The story in T2T picks up immedietly after Warrior Within's alternate ending. Unlike what has been 
 repeatedly reported that the begining of T2T is confusing, it simply isn't as long as you know 
 that there is an alternate ending to the previous game. And even if you don't, if you play close 
 attention to the opening movie, Kaileena says "but this is not how it happened" and goes on explaining 
 what actually did.
  
  At any rate, you reach your horribly-infiltrated Babylon and find yourself in the shipwreck, looking 
 for Kaileena. Once you get to know the controls you reach the point where you meet Kaileena and 
 the Vizir, from the first game in the series, and (without spoilers) let's just say that you need 
 to undo what you did in the previous two games.
  
  But what is more interesting in the story is your Dark Prince alter-ego. While unfortunately no 
 one speaks British in this game, it is very clear from the dialogue to distinguish between the 
 Prince and his alter-ego. The issues they discuss and the dialogues are often funny and interesting, 
 but ultimately it is simply a pavement to the game's final where you need to resolve issues with 
 yourself that you have accumulated in the past two games.
  
  Overall, T2T does indeed give a satisfying ending although you would wish that the quest would 
 not end this soon.
  
  | Gameplay
  
  The gameplay is almost identical to the first two with the exception of a few things. You will 
 be familiar with most of the combos you picked up in Warrior Within, in addition to a couple of 
 new moves. The Prince runs, climbs, swings and shimmies as elegant and graceful as ever, which 
 you need to master given all platforming you need to do in this edition.
  
  The three best new moves are the knife climbing, pole sitting and the speed kill. No longer will 
 you be able to see the Prince use his dagger to still himself at the edge of the cliff only in 
 the video sequences; you'd actually be able to pull it off (quite a lot) during the game and it 
 adds a different perspective on the gameplay, since you'd have to look at distances quite differently 
 in this game. The pole sitting is an interesting feature that allows you to not only swing on poles, 
 but to actually pull yourself up to sit on them, and then jump straight ahead or vertically to 
 your liking. Speed kills add a new dimension to the fun and gameplay, since now you can sneak up 
 on enemies and kill them instantly by timed dagger sequences. It's not only fun and more efficient, 
 but it also saves you quite a lot of group fights later on. Speed kills are also critical for all 
 the boss battles, so they're quite unique and fun.
  
  There's also the addition of two instances of chariot "racing", but how much fun you will have 
 depends on how many sandtanks you have left plus your natural tolerance to repetition (in the case 
 of your demise) . They're quite fun though.
  
  The Dark Prince though, is another story. His sequences in the game are more interesting yet frustrating, 
 since his health is constantly depleting at a very fast rate. You can recover your health though 
 by collecting sand, which shouldn't be a problem except near the end of the game.
  
  The Dark Prince has some moves of his own of course, since he uses a chain as well as the dagger 
 to attack. The chain is extremely powerful, and also serves as a "rope" to cross yourselves across 
 chasms. You'll need to get used to the idea of having long jumps and making use of the environment 
 with the Dark Prince, since in the later parts of the game his sequences get pretty rough.
  
  My main gripe about the gameplay is that it is too much rooftops and little castle. Warrior 
 Within's castle was superb and left only a little to be desired. While T2T gave outdoors and city 
 quite a load, running through the streets and on rooftops feels like Aladdin rather than Prince 
 of Persia. You do eventually get to the castle, but the amount of time you spend there is almost 
 negligible. While the story demands outdoors, it is still sad not to enjoy a grand castle with 
 all the glory.
  
  Overall, while mostly the same, the new additions to the gameplay add a new dimention of fun to 
 the game as well as serve a prupose in the story.
  
  | Graphics
  
  I played it on the PC, so it is graphics-card dependent. I played it on a 64 Mobility Radeon 9000 
 with the latest Omega Drivers, and the graphics were very decent with a solid framerate. I had 
 a bit of glitches but again, it is because of the drivers.
  
  Regardless, Babylon is very bright and lighthearted compared to the depressing castle in Warrior 
 Within (and there are no bloody splash screens here to boot) . The lighting effects are great and 
 the city is beautifully rendered, in and out. Unfortunately, the "grand" rooms are rare, unlike 
 the previous game, so you really do not get a sense of scale. But there isn't quite a lot of improvement 
 overall.
  
  | Sound
  
  Perhaps the best improvement over the last installment, the music has shifted gear into Middle 
 Eastern which serves well for the environment as well as the whole series in general. No more rock 
 - everything is wonderfully oriental and never feels out of tune... except in one sequence near 
 the end of the game. But overall it is a very good score.
  
  Overall, if you are a fan of the series it is a strong recommendation to play it. It ends the story 
 quite well, re-establishes the original Prince of Persia feel and adds nifty improvements to the 
 gameplay to keep it fresh.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RebornJeremiah
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 8, 2006 9:32 pm PT
Review:  I love the PoP series from the first one till this one. When SoT comes out to the market, I find 
 that the game was just unbelievable. Probably cause the graphic at the time also the gameplay which 
 is really well defined. Then the second franchise came out with the title Warrior Within. I was 
 amazed and how they created the Free Form Fighting Style. I was basically blown away cause they 
 kept making something new in each franchise. The Two Thrones in general is not a bad game. There 
 is a new system which is the Speed Kill System. This is a pretty cool concept where you sneak behin 
 your enemy and kill them with some stealthy move by clicking your mouse when the dagger flash. 
 It is a great addition to the game. But other than that, there is nothing new. The fighting style 
 is still the same, in fact they removed some of the free form fighting moved which I find it really 
 dissapointing. Also somehow the movement in the FFS is somehow stiff. 
  
  The voice acting I find it pretty cheesy and not as good as SoT. I can say that this might be the 
 worst in all 3 series even though it is not a bad game at all. It is still a worth playing game 
 for the PoP fans out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctor_kaz
Rating: 7.6
Date: Apr 1, 2006 12:11 am PT
Review:  Two Thrones is the final game in the Prince of Persia series. You can clearly see that the game 
 was developed with the shortcomings of the other two games in mind, especially Warrior Within. 
 It is noticeably easier and less frustrating than the second game, and it has some interesting 
 new mechanics like stealth kills and chariot racing, and friendlier controls. Unfortunately, some 
 of the elements that made the first two games special are gone. Namely, the art direction has taken 
 a step backwards, and the game lacks good story and atmosphere. That still shouldnt keep you from 
 enjoying what is ultimately a quality conclusion to the series if you like the other two games.
 
  
  By-and-large, The Two Thrones follows the same formula as the previous two games. You navigate 
 dangerous environments, avoid traps, run on walls, swing from bars, climb poles, and perform all 
 sorts of other acrobatic feats. The game also added a few more abilities. You can now hang from 
 the walls at certain points with your dagger. You can also climb up and down between extremely 
 narrow walls, or jump off of the occasional wall spring. These changes arent drastically different, 
 and they dont change the game too much.
  
  There are two major changes to the game though. The first is that you occasionally morph into a 
 different character. Like the sand wraith from the second game, you lose health gradually during 
 these sequences. In the Two Thrones though, you dont stop losing health, and you regain health 
 when you absorb sand. That means that you have to navigate environments and fight enemies as fast 
 as possible, and break open containers the second that you see them. Your health deteriorates pretty 
 fast, so you dont have much time to examine your environments. This leads to lots of trial-and-error, 
 but you shouldnt have to replay any of these sequences more than once or twice. Since the game 
 is more generous with sand, the trial-and-error isnt as hard. This other character also has a 
 chain that you can swing from fixtures with and use to devastate enemies. These sequences are a 
 nice addition to the game and they keep it from getting repetitive. 
  
  The other addition is chariot riding. You occasionally romp through the streets of Babylon riding 
 a chariot, avoiding obstacles and fending off enemies who try to jump on. Enemies in their own 
 chariots will try to run you into a wall or a pole. You can return the favor and cause them to 
 smash their chariots in a spectacular crash. These scenes move fast and are pretty tough, but they 
 are very exciting, and a worthy addition. 
  
  The platforming has improved in some subtle ways. The biggest one is that the game FINALLY gives 
 you improved control over the camera. Like other platformers, you use one analog stick to move 
 around, and the other stick to control the camera (assuming that you have a gamepad. You need one 
 for this game) . This makes a big difference. No more to you accidentally run into some trap you 
 didnt see or spend five minutes looking for a ledge thats hidden off screen because the camera 
 is locked somewhere. The game also alerts you when you should use the environmental camera. This 
 helps you navigate the environments better. In addition, the game seems to be more generous with 
 sand-filled chests this time around. That means that you can use more to rewind time or slow down 
 time, because you know that youll find some more soon. Theres still some trial and error in this 
 game, but its more forgiving.
  
  When youre not platforming, youre usually engaging in combat. The combat feels different this 
 time around. You arent locked into facing your enemy as much anymore. This gives you more freedom 
 to move around and run away, but it also makes it harder to use combos. This means that you have 
 to get closer to use combos, which leaves you open to a hit. The game has added stealth kills, 
 which you do not have to use, but make the game easier when you succeed. Most games are lousy when 
 they try to implement token stealth elements, but this game does it very well. The enemies seem 
 to block combos a lot easier this time, which means that you cant run next to a small crowd and 
 mow them all down by executing a five-button combo. The main enemies seem a bit smarter this time 
 around. Combat is very good.
  
  Whats wrong with this game though? It lacks the magical feel here that the previous two games 
 had. The main reason is that the art direction and environments have taken a big step backward. 
 Here, the environments are bland and repetitive. After a while, every brown street or rooftop looks 
 the same as the last brown street or rooftop. Remember some of the incredible scenery of the first 
 two games? Remember climbing to the top of the birdcage in Sands of Time, and the dilapidated garden 
 and clockworks in Warrior Within? Those were so memorable. Two Thrones has nothing like this, up 
 until the end. 
  
  The game reintroduces some characters from the first game, but they are pretty flat and without 
 charm. Especially the princess. Shes not nearly as likeable, and the dialog that she has with 
 the Prince seems rather forced. The story isnt much to write home about either. The lack of atmosphere 
 gives you the feeling that this series is on the verge of getting stale. 
  
  Two Thrones takes about 12 hours or so to finish. Its the ideal length for an action game. Its 
 long enough to give you a lot of enjoyment, but it doesnt get repetitive and it ends before it 
 wears out its welcome. This is definitely a quality wrap-up to the series, which I have enjoyed 
 somewhat, but never been a huge fan of. If you loved the other two games then youll definitely 
 enjoy this one. If you thought that the other two games had too many annoying issues, then its 
 still worth it to check this game out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Taygeto
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 5, 2006 7:33 am PT
Review:  For those of you who played WW, theres hardly anything new here. Except, of course, for the Dark 
 Prince. I wish I had seen more of this guy, though, because hes definitely great to play with. 
 Who wouldnt love the Daggertail?
  
  I did encounter some glitches, a lot more than in WW, actually. When youre hanging on a wall 
 in mid-air, for example, you do wonder if they didnt release the game too soon. Also, when the 
 Prince is between two walls with his arms and legs spread, he quite often starts rattling as if 
 the walls had electricity on them.
  
  Another drawback is that the game is fairly short. It took me some 5 days playing a couple of hours 
 a day to finish it. I would have liked some more hours on the rooftops in the city of Babylon to 
 make some more stealth kills.
  
  Which brings me to a huge new feature in T2T: the speedkill system is really awesome. Its something 
 I really missed in WW, you could stand behind an unsuspecting enemy and all you could do was attack 
 him in the normal way (maybe perform some acrobatic combo to throw him down a spiky pit, or something 
 like that, but that was about it) . In T2T, however, you have some more options. Although you sometimes 
 have to invest some time to get in position for a good speedkill, its definitely worth the effort. 
 
  
  So overall, a great game, but a little too short. I preferred WW.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gallesh
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 3, 2006 4:48 pm PT
Review:  Last piece of the Prince of Persia Trilogy ... and it's really the missing part..
  
  Take good parts of its younger brothers SoT and WW .. and add some more tricks .. than you have 
 The Two Thrones ... It is what i was waiting for... Maybe a little change in the graphics (by not 
 only adding HDR) could be better... but it's okay .. 
  
  Fighting system and monkey things are still included and it's what Prince of Persia fans like , 
 new instant kill is also fun and a good extra for the game.. Puzzles are alike in the first 2 games, 
 but this time traps, obstacles are lesser compares to fighting and acrobatics which is good for 
 me...
  
  Dark Prince which was already famous before the release, scenes are good and exciting.. dilemma 
 of Prince is fun to watch .. 
  
  Also it has the story telling concept like in the SoT , Kaileena as the narrator..
  
  Most 
 important of all : it is still so much FUN like helll to play as Prince .... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brain20035
Rating: 6.8
Date: Mar 3, 2006 3:05 am PT
Review:  The whole game is about jumping from this wall to another and grab the edge or shimmy this way 
 and that way, swing some swords, see some cutscenes, defeat boring bosses (the last boss in particular) 
 and boring things that were exactly adapted from two last games.
  I am a true POP fan i liked the warrior within too but the last version (pop3) , (almost) does not 
 have anything new to offer. u will enjoy the game only if u like the enviroments and to jump up 
 and down and swing swords.
  the only element that made me fifnish this game was the story which was not so good again. 
  
 i only love new things and this game had a very short varity of new creations so i never enjoyed 
 it as i did with POP1 and POP2.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pcfox77
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 26, 2006 4:20 pm PT
Review:  This game has all the qualities for a fun game. The video graphics are magnificent, and the vast 
 range of moves are jaw dropping. On the other hand, there are some inconsistencies from the previous 
 game in the series. For one, didn't the Empress of Time look much more desirable in Warrior Within. 
 For some reason, she has been turned into a only decent flat-chested person. Also, according to 
 the storyline of Warrior Within, the Prince killed the Empress, so how is she still alive. I for 
 one do not believe that I spent so long in Warrior Within trying to kill her, just so they can 
 say it didn't happen when the sequel gets released. Another thing, after beating the Vizier, the 
 mind realm world was ridiculously stupid. They should have ended it there. Also they are now not 
 cutting the monsters in half like they use to do in Warrior Within. That is far less fulfilling. 
 The game's difficulty is far easier than Warrior Within, and has become Just Right. Warrior Within 
 was ridiculously difficult, and frankly a tad repetitive. Overall, the story is not as good as 
 in Sands of Time, but the game play is far more spectacular. I recommend this game despite the 
 problems I listed above. Enjoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sharpdolphins
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 24, 2006 1:40 pm PT
Review:  hello ubisoft:)
  your games are just best in series. your game the prince of persia two thrones is massivelly excellent 
 i am very glad about this game i am a big fan of your prince of ubisoft i am play that game the 
 graphics are good and the sounds are ausum the great thing of this game is the game play. the caracters 
 and the boss are very good and i am very entertain when i am ride on the horses cart this is very 
 good i feel that i play need for speed in prince of persia ttt .keep try to improve your game and 
 keep it up. the one of the basic this of that game is the timings if you have a timings you are 
 a champ of this game the hard thing of this game is dagger flashing. this is amazing game play i 
 am feel very angry when i was fighting in arena the boss name is kolampha the most diffcult boss 
 in this game but i dont understand how to beat that monster. but i was successful when i know the 
 dagger flashing trick this is a new trick of game play and it is quite difficult about fighting. well 
 this is good game try this to every one this is my advice for you friends this is very good game 
 try it when you are in boring feel.
  good luck ubi soft.
  later.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bert2005
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 23, 2006 6:00 pm PT
Review:  Starts out with an awesome video which has a narritive that reminds me of the one in The Lord of 
 the Ring. The gameplay immediately starts you off with a quick in game tutorial. This is very nice 
 for those players who have never played a game like this. The first "argument" between another 
 person comes quickly. This gives you your first real sense of excitement. It also teaches you that 
 sneaking up on these bad guys is the way to go. 
  
  The game is a little short, but what game that has this much fun isn't too short. I mean, it is 
 so easy to emerse yourself into this game that time goes by too fast. Its a shame we don't have 
 the rewind ability. 
  
  There are many action moves that make this game super fun. When you turn into your bad form the 
 loss of life tends to start to get a little annoying. Also the bad skeleton guards whom pop up 
 get annoying too. I'm not a big fan of the save points the developers have created, I like the 
 way they encorporated it into the game, but I do not like that they are few and far from one another 
 or tend to be at challenging jump points. I wish you could save whenever you want. Other than that 
 this game is non stop fun. 
  
  This game gets a 9 out of 10 from me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kcryeback666
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 13, 2006 6:16 pm PT
Review:  WHAT CAN I SAY ABOUT THIS GAME .THIS GAME HAS BEEN MY LIFE TIME EXPERIENCE .AS I AM CRAZY FOR POP 
 FRANCHISE. I AM PLAYING POP SINCE IT FIRST CAME OUT IN 1984 IN DOS MODE. SINCE THAT TIME I FELL IN 
 LOVE WITH THIS PRINCE WHO HAS NOW EVOLVED VERY BEAUTIFULLY AND STRONGLY. EACH AND EVERY TIME I HEAR 
 ANY NEWS ABOUT POP FRANCHISE I SIMPLY GO AWESTRUCK. I CAN SAY THAT THIS IS THE ONLY GAME FRANCHISE 
 WHICH CAN MAKE ME GO CRAZY, WHICH CAN FUEL MY ADRENALINE AND SENT IT ON A ROLLER COASTER. I AM NO 
 DOUBT ONE OF THE HUGE FAN OF POP. I DO RESPECT OTHER FANS ALSO. I AM NOT TELLING THAT I AM THE BIGGEST 
 FAN BUT ONE I CAN SURELY SAY THAT I AM ONE OF THE BIGGEST FAN OF POP. THIS SERIES HAS EVERYTHING 
 ONE GAMER HOPES OR I CAN SAY DREAMS TO FIND IN A GAME .HELL OF GRAPHICS, COOL MOVES, SIMLE AND EASY 
 TO USE CONTROLS ,ONE O F THE FINEST GRAPHICS ENGINE USED TO CREATE THIS GAME. AWESOME LOOKS, WELL 
 POLISHED AND WELL  O F THE GUYS WHO MADE THIS FRANCHISE POSSIBLE. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yasser_mh
Rating: 6.1
Date: Feb 16, 2006 10:45 pm PT
Review:  well this game locks like Sands of time in the graphics for me but there is a new moves like the 
 speed kill which is a good thing but the game looks for me to be so easy ,PS"i ended it in 13 hours 
 only which is compared to the second game which took me 30 hours to complete looks like a picnic 
 in a park".
  the storyline makes it somehow good because it makes the series like a movie which the prince is 
 telling us of it .
  if there is a game that worth playing in the series it The Warrior within i see it the best in 
 graphics, story line and playing.
  but i think this game is just a conclusion to the great series.
  i hope they could find a new 
 idea to make a new prince of Persia soon enough i hope. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AgentDenton
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 20, 2006 3:48 am PT
Review:  Not that the first two games were failures. It's just that after Warrior Within, I lost faith in 
 the series. Sands Of Time remains the original classic, while The Two Thrones is the best of the 
 three.
  
  Everything has been vastly improved over the previous titles. The Persian theme from the first 
 has been enchanced with the (much appreciated) return of the Persian music. It serves to (unobtrusively) 
 immerse you in the new world your exploring. And "exploring" is exactly the way it feels. Although 
 the levels are still linear, they don't feel like it. With the inclusion of new features, traps 
 and devices you are kept alert.
  
  The combat system was taken (and improved) from Warrior Within. And I must admit that they have 
 done a stunning job with it. Add to that the inclusion of the Speed Kill system, and you have Deus 
 Ex of Prince Of Persia. By that I mean that you mostly have the choice of either fighting guards 
 head-on, or to eliminate them stealthily with precision and accuracy.
  
  The Dark Prince is a very welcome addition to the game. He is faster, stronger and has the ever-cool 
 Daggertail weapon (think a chain with blades) . To top it off, he has been perfectly balanced to 
 still make this a challenging game. How? By having his health fade away slowly till death unless 
 he collects sand. This makes combat interesting as well. It becomes exciting and fast paced - trying 
 to eliminate an enemy before he strikes a blow and takes away even more precious health.
  
  The plot is definitely the most mature in this sequel as well. The Dark Prince forces our young 
 hero (he is still unnamed) to realise what it means to be a warrior. It is a very well thought 
 out ending to the trilogy, which closes the story in a realistic, satisfactory way. I'm not going 
 to give specific details to the story, as that's easy to find (even on the official website) . 
 
  
  Overall, a very enjoying experience. Once I will recommend to anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: henrik01
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 10, 2006 5:08 am PT
Review:  Definitely the best of POP-s. Prince was talking to himself again, like in the first game :D. The 
 changing to the bad guy was cool. I liked the tornado thing:) . 
  The second game relied on killing only. It was cool, but i got bored quickly.
  Now, the gameplay 
 is basically the same as SOT and WW. Graphics are maybe little bit better (very nice) but want 
 more powerful computer : (. Sound wasn't anything special. The game was a bit too short. It wasn't 
 hard to learn the movement and other stuff. The speedkill was great. The time to hit with the dagger 
 was at the start very long and afterwards shortened, so easy to master.
  Bosses were cool (not easy :D) , i certainly spent most of the time to kill the ones with the sword 
 and axe. The Vizier looked very buggish :) . T2T is a good game, it has great combos as usual, cool 
 changes, but a bit to short, what takes away 0,5 points and leaves (only :D) 9,5!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: munnamanju
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 7, 2006 9:15 pm PT
Review:  great
  an exelent game that was worth the wait
  the sound works perfectly and the graphics are terific.
  really worth it 
  great
  an exelent 
 game that was worth the wait.
  the sound works perfectly and the graphics are terific.
  one of the best games i play in the passing year
  highly recommended to those who played the 
 last two.
  its not as hard as it looks.
  an easy control but a hard and fun game
  in my opinion the only thing thats not perfect is its price (all pc games are just to expencive) .
 
  if u can rent the game for a week or two and in the worst case jjust buy it.
  conclusion
  an exelent game with terific gra' and sound but a little too short ant expencive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AkyBoy
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 5, 2006 2:02 pm PT
Review:  Prince of Persia: The Two Thrones is maybe the best game that UBISOFT ever made ( my opinion) . 
 The story is great, the game play is fantastic and those beautiful graphics and sound. A must have 
 for all POP fans!!
  The only thing that annoys me is that the game is really short.
  But anyway the game itself is AMAZING!!!!!!!!! 
  I have completed the game about 7 or 8 times 
 so far and i just can't stop playing! =)
  The UBISOFT team did a really great job on this game!!
  Thanks a lot guys!!!!!!!!!
  
  Well 
 thats from me!!
  Thank you for reading this review!
  
  D. S.
  
  My first one! =) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shoram
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 5, 2006 5:37 am PT
Review:  great
  an exelent game that was worth the wait.
  the sound works perfectly and the graphics are terific.
  one of the best games i play in the 
 passing year
  highly recommended to those who played the last two.
  its not as hard as it looks.
  an easy control but a hard and fun game
  in my opinion the only 
 thing thats not perfect is its price (all pc games are just to expencive) .
  if u can rent the game for a week or two and in the worst case jjust buy it.
  conclusion
  an 
 exelent game with terific gra' and sound but a little too short ant expencive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_prince_1981
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 4, 2006 8:33 am PT
Review:  Well the final prince of persia: sands of time game, people. It's a shame, I loved the triologie! 
 Every game was different! SoT was "cute", quite a 'fairy tale' experience, but WW was real rough, 
 very different from the SoT. But this game, This game was the perfect combination of teh last two 
 games! It had the fairy tale charm from SoT (and the "good" prince back) , but the cool fighting 
 moves from WW, plus super graphics! It was absolutly great! The lesser things from the last two 
 games (SoT: a to "nice" prince and WW: a way to selfish and rough prince) were worked away. I'm 
 only sad that this was just a triologie, and that there probaly won't come any other games in this 
 serie. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shatilov
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 3, 2006 6:49 am PT
Review:  The Good : The good thing about this game is that it contain the same environmental puzzles that 
 were in the 1st two games , it also contain a great story line with good audio & vedio effects 
 . And the thing that is outstandingly good was the speed kill from it's name yu can figer it out 
 b ut no there is alot of difference to what we thought of speed kill & what it is , it is like 
 the slow motion movement bt this time you are striking ( hitting the enemy ) it alows you to kill 
 them fast without moving to the hard fightings , & dont forget the bosses that you have to defeat 
 & kill but they aren't that easy , they are so challenging & not to forget the worst two bosses 
 ( The Phasier , The Big Fat one in the Arena ) , but when each time you kill a boss you get releafed.
 
  
  The Bad : Many & Many have noticed many glitches in the game especially the glitch that kicked 
 all of our asses the glitch in the Arena that is what I'm talking about , this glitch made the 
 monster so hard to fight which made you probably lost temper with the game & drived you mad ( brock 
 the DVD , uninstall the game , etc .....) it drove us all mad , & these glitches aren't onl during 
 the game play , they also come in sounds were you sometimes hear some one singing but you hardly 
 notice these glitches of sound , as for the saving glitches that Game Spot talked about well I 
 didn't notice them , but I don't think that they don't exists because any kind of glitch with this 
 game could happen .
  
  At the end I think that anyone should buy this game , bt those who have played the 1st two games 
 they have to buy this one , because it would be a sad thing if they don't buy it because they are 
 are the lovers of this game . I didn't play the 1st two games but I saw them & watched others whch 
 made me think that if loved this game , those who played the 1st two games must be living it in 
 every day gameplay . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mouzz
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 3, 2006 4:30 am PT
Review:  The First Prince of Persia game the sands of time was a great action/platformer with a slightly 
 repetitive fighting system introduced a young and a nave prince, in warrior within we (the guys 
 who played the first game) where introduced to the same prince but now he is apparently piss-off, 
 the fight system was highly improved and the story was still great, but the game lost some of it 
 elements that made the first game so great, and delivered one of my most irritating gaming moments: 
 the but shots, the cursing (cursing in games is Ok but I doesnt work in this one) , and the awful 
 crappy-metal soundtrack (metal music is Ok but again it doesnt work in this game) .
  From there comes Prince of Persia: the two thrones, how does it compare to the first two, well 
 its better than both. First off, theres the prince whose character has convincingly evolved from 
 the nave teen in the sands of time to a mature adult in this one.
  Then theres the story which picks up after 7 years from the sands of time, and sees the return 
 of some of the characters from the first 2 games (kailina, farah, and the old wise guy from warrior 
 within) . the most important point about this games is the addition of the dark prince which the 
 prince terns into after his direct contact with the sands of time (which make a return along with 
 the dagger of time) . The dark prince is more powerful then the light prince especially with his 
 weapons but at beginning he feels week and more of a burden but later on you get to use his full 
 potential power; the dark princes health is steadily degrading, so when you play as him theres 
 a constant feeling of hurry which adds a new dimension to the game, when youre not in dark prince 
 form, he (the dark prince) acts as the princes alter ego basically the prince with no conscience.
 
  Another new addition to the game is the speed kills. This new addition is extremely helpful against 
 a great number of enemys, it takes time to learn them but when you do there extremely fun, and 
 are really important when facing one of the games bosses.
  The games acrobatic moves and its platforming sections are as good as ever, the jumping and wall 
 running are great. With no metal music, the soundtrack is awesome.
  On the bad side the game still feels a bit repetitive despite the inclusion of some chariot areas, 
 and the environments couldve been better.
  In the end, this game is a fantastic end to the sands of time trilogy, and essential buy to those 
 who played the first 2 games, without a doubt the 2 thrones is the best prince of Persia game yet.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hacer
Rating: 8.1
Date: Feb 2, 2006 5:51 am PT
Review:  I really thought this game will rocks. After completing SoT and WW especialy. But I must say that 
 i'm a little but dissapointed. 
  1. Gameplay: Fighting scenes are good but i was waiting for something more, they looks great but 
 only for first 3 hours of playing. Another things are puzzle elements and platform levels. They 
 are quite good but sometimes they can be boring. Most of time you play without using your brain. 
 
  2. Graphics: Game looks great. Cut scenes are good too. I can't say anything more :)
  3: Sound: The best soundtrack from whole PoP Trilogy was in WW (Godsmack rock!!!) But music is 
 not disturbing at all.
  
  To sum up game is good and you should try it. But try to finnish all earlier parts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BeyondEvil
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 1, 2006 6:03 am PT
Review:  Starting with Sands of Time I was just shocked by being able to turn back time... It was like BIG 
 WHOA in action adventure games for me! Then Warrior Within... Which game has the same fighting 
 system as PoP WW? Oh yeah, not even one, if we are not counting The two Thrones, which is nothing 
 but a master piece indeed! T2T - a combined version of SoT and WW and a perfect End of this great 
 Trilogy! : (
  
  But there's not all about game play... No, no! The sounds, music and graphics in all Prince of 
 Persia games are awesome! Not great, but fantastic... And that's why I think we will all miss the 
 game so much! But hey you never know what they are planning for us, so let's not give up hope! 
 :D
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Re_Das_7
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 1, 2006 2:49 am PT
Review:  there is no doubt that prince of persia the one of the most popular and loved game but POP T2T 
 was hmmmmmmmm so disappointing i think every one thought that this part will be the greatest part 
 of 'em 
  it my opinion so i'll say the advantages of it and the disadvantages
  a) adv.
  1- cool flash back by the old characters 
  2- quick kill
  3- city playing and roof top missions
 
  4- new skills like standing on the thin rods
  
  b) disadv.
  1- few weapons and stupid dagger
  2- where is the compos like that one that make the air red 
 and enemy freez
  and give the prince great speed to kill 'em all
  3- i think UBI Soft Fooled us by Giving a trailers about POP3 And then they changed there mind 
 and said let's make it POP T2T 
  4- poor story
  5- easy bosses
  6- what the aim of playing the last mission after killing the last boss - Oh I think Ubi said lets 
 make the game more psycho make the good priince fight the bad prince 
  
  remind me by the chef who made a great meal but finshed it by throughing it on the sewers or the 
 (two sewers) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oamorap
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 30, 2006 9:15 am PT
Review:  Me parecio excelente que volviera el principe gracioso que tanto me gusto en la primera entrega 
 de esta saga, no el principe petulante que vimos en warrior within. 
  
  Por lo demas, aunque suene feo es un poco mas de lo mismo, excelentes escenarios dispuestos para 
 aprovechar todas las habilidades del principe, de nuevo el sistema de pelea free style con algunas 
 cosas nuevas, nuevas armas y enemigos y una historia que dio un final muy digno a la saga.
  
  Espectacular Babilonia, muy bien lograda, se ve que le dedicaron bastante tiempo y los pedazos 
 donde se cabalga estan muy bien hechos, el principe oscuro es un personaje muy bien realizado y 
 bastante mas poderoso que el propio principe normal, pero definitivamente lo mejor del juego es 
 la matanza rapida, eso si es muy util y se ve bastante pero bastante bien.
  
  Lo malo... hmmm... no se de pronto q en ciertas partes es bastante repetitivo (salte, cuelgue, 
 camine paredes, etc) y los puzzles no son nada que con paciencia se pueda lograr.
  
  Para terminar, no supero a Sands Of Time, que en mi concepto es el mejor de la serie, pero es un 
 excelente juego con una muy buena historia que para tristeza de muchos (me incluyo) finaliza esta 
 saga. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: guncizxxl
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 29, 2006 4:16 am PT
Review:  This game impressed me with its story and the changing between two characters.
  Although the game was great, there was some action missing. It wasn't as bloody and dark as warrior 
 within. Even with the free-form-fighting I felt like fighting as in Sands of Time, because you 
 had the Dagger of Time and a sword, which you had to change after every second fight. If it wasn't 
 for the Speed kills, maybe it could be even boring. I could go trough the game 2 times (I completed 
 warrior within 4 times) , still, there was something missing. Maybe its the end, where the dark 
 prince was much too easy to beat, or the thing, that the story ended, there will be no sequels.
 
  The use of the same graphics engine was not what I expected from the game, but the sound was good 
 enough.
  In the conclusion I will say, that the game was great, but they could have made it better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jedi_Lord77
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 28, 2006 6:52 am PT
Review:  Once again Ubisoft has created a beautifully structured gaming experience that concludes the Sands 
 of Time series with poise.
  
  One has to give much deserved credit to the programmers at Ubisoft for producing a visually stunning 
 graphical engine that does not require extreme hardware specs to experience the game at its peak 
 (which is the case in games like F. E. A. R) .
  
  The story picks straight off where POP2: WW ended. The prince returns to Babylon with his new love 
 Kaileena (the former empress of time) only to find the magnificent kingdom ravaged by war. For 
 gamers who have not played both predecessors of POP3, the game might appear dull and the gameplay 
 boring. This is primarily because such a player has not played through the intense storyline that 
 the series encapsulates.
  
  The disdainful yet desperate nature of the prince in POP2 due to him being destined to be killed 
 by the Dahaka has led to a cruel and selfish subconscious personality within him. When being exposed 
 to the enchanted sands in POP3, this inner being is surfaced in the form of the dark prince. Throughout 
 the game we hear the scornful, bitter voice of the dark prince whose evil presence is even physically 
 ascended as the prince transforms into the body of the dark prince (who in effect is somewhat of 
 a sand creature) . As an inner psychological voice, the dark prince offers guidance in completing 
 puzzles and bosses but simultaneously tries to completely taint the princes mind with evil by 
 persuading him to do what is wrong. He is thus the epitome of innate evil that lies within the 
 psyche of the prince. When our hero is physically transformed into the dark prince the player is 
 able to perform fighting sequences of an entirely different style from the prince. The dark prince 
 is equipped with a malicious razor-chain which extends from his arm and is able to whip around 
 enemies with terrible force, sometimes with a decapitating effect! Many puzzles and areas will 
 require the abilities of the dark princes chain as he is able to latch it onto objects and swing 
 from platform to platform.
  
  Other new elements in gameplay include the highly enjoyable speed kill system. Players will be 
 able to perform stealthily kills without alerting other enemies that might be patrolling the area. 
 Also great in the game are the new objects such as stab stones, stab levers and window shutters 
 that the player must use to navigate through a puzzle. However, even with the new features as mentioned 
 above, the game still employs many of the fundamental components of gameplay from the previous 
 POPs (such as the free form fighting system and combos) . This may prove challenging to those inexperienced 
 in the realm POP. Factors from POP1 such as Farah, the Vizier and the dagger of time are resurrected 
 in The Two Thrones.
  
  The music in the game is brilliantly choreographed, really adding to the overall middle-eastern 
 theme. The graphics, especially the architectural design, are also excellent but however not much 
 greater than that of POP2.
  
  Negative aspects, of note, include lip-sync problems in the cut-scenes. Also the game as a whole 
 is significantly shorter that POP2 with the final fight with the dark prince being exceptionally 
 disappointing.
  
  Throughout the game we observe the maturing of the princes personality as he goes from egotistical 
 and selfish to a selfless man who would restore pride to his fathers throne. In all POP3 manages 
 to combine the best of POP1 and POP2 with much style and splendour. It is a visually stunning game 
 that is well worth to buy, providing addictive fun for days! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nace84
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 26, 2006 4:51 pm PT
Review:  Although I think Prince of Persia: The Two Thrones is a great game, I did not like one thing in 
 the game an that is the view (camera) ; sometimes it's annoying to move and jump in the right direction 
 and it just may happen, that jou finish in a some kind of a precipice! 
  i think it would be easier if the camera would be alway at the back of the character.
  The graphic 
 and sound are great and so are the ideas for rewinding and playing in slow motion, that gives you 
 the pleasure to play it gets almost addictive.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChotaZorro
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 25, 2006 1:30 am PT
Review:  This game is just awesome. I love the speed kills and the free-form fighting. The graphics in this 
 game are very nice and I think it is the best in the series. Speed kills make it easy but you have 
 to know when to execute it. The bosses are kind of easy. But the chariot race is my favorite part 
 in this game. I really love riding the chariot. So cool and fast it is! Dark Prince is a really 
 cool character, I just love the chain. The storyline is great and it provides a satisfyng conclusion. 
 It really ends the series well. Overall, this game is just fantastic and I recommend every third-person 
 shooter fan to get. Although I'm a FPS fan but I still loved it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kytran69
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 22, 2006 1:49 pm PT
Review:  Overall, Gameplay is the Same as before, a few more tricks and moves.
  ANOYING HORSE RACE, feels like POD-RACER all over.
  
  Not sure what the point of the silly 
 races are, but serious, could have done game without them.
  
  the game itself seems exacatly like before, just that now there is a deliema within the Player... 
 and End of the world. blah blah blah... 
  
  over all same story, same graphics....... same game as others.... we need originality, not repeativaty!
 
  
  Ubisoft came a long way with many of their games, but 1 i must say... they need to stop with the 
 price of persia series before they kill it even more 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mkeelahi
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 21, 2006 8:33 am PT
Review:  Prince of Persia is the best action adventure game series ever I played. After a long year the 
 prince is back and most unfortunately for the last time.
  Ubisoft's most surprising game series Prince of Persia ends with The Two Thrones. This time the 
 prince isn't confined in a palace or an island but he will continue his journey through the highly 
 impressive city of Babylon. And Farah is back with her bows.
  The most impressive new feature is the speed kill system. Especially I liked 
  the double speed 
 kills. This time the prince will be affected by the sands of time and will gain duality.
  The dark prince - the corrupted version of the prince is more similer to the sand wraith of POP: 
 Warrior Within. This time he has a deadly chain and some new moves.
  The game added a new dimension in POP series but Alas! for the last time. 
  But the thing disappointed 
 me most is it's ending. I can't believe the developers 
  finished such a great game with a very short, not highly impressive ending.
  This mind-blowing 
 game forced me to sit in front of my PC until it's finished. 
  If u miss it I'll say you've missed one of the greatest action adventure game ever. Nobody will 
 be more happier than me if the prince will back. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CooLa_M
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 21, 2006 7:03 am PT
Review:  Great game, an excellent sequel to the Warrior within. Graphics is better that in WW, but not revolutionary. 
 Story is fast-paced, thrilling and will keep you at the edge of your seat. It can be compared to 
 the Hideo Kojima's MGS. Controls are same as in WW and SoT, meaning series' players won't have 
 trouble in playing. Sound is Generally better in first two parts (where prince used only two phrases 
 during fights) . I especially like the prince and Dark Prince dialogues. Replay value is high due 
 to sand credits which buy stuff in extras menu. I would recommend this game to anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Evolution_remix
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 21, 2006 2:07 am PT
Review:  not all of us have great computers not all of us have great computers not all of us have great 
 computers not all of us have great computers not all of us have great computers not all of us have 
 great computers not all of us have great computers not all of us have great computers not all of 
 us have great computers not all of us have great computers not all of us have great computers not 
 all of us have great computers not all of us have great computers not all of us have great computers 
 not all of us have great computers not all of us have great computers not all of us have great 
 computers not all of us have great computers not all of us have great computers not all of us have 
 great computers not all of us have great computers not all of us have great computers not all of 
 us have great computers not all of us have great computers not all of us have great computers not 
 all of us have great computers not all of us have great computers not all of us have great computers 
 not all of us have great computers not all of us have great computers not all of us have great 
 computers not all of us have great computers not all of us have great computers not all of us have 
 great computers not all of us have great computers not all of us have great computers not all of 
 us have great computers not all of us have great computers not all of us have great computers not 
 all of us have great computers not all of us have great computers not all of us have great computers 
 not all of us have great computers not all of us have great computers not all of us have great 
 computers not all of us have great computers not all of us have great computers not all of us have 
 great computers not all of us have great computers not all of us have great computers not all of 
 us have great computers not all of us have great computers not all of us have great computers not 
 all of us have great computers not all of us have great computers not all of us have great computers 
 not all of us have great computers not all of us have great computers not all of us have great 
 computers not all of us have great computers not all of us have great computers not all of us have 
 great computers not all of us have great computers not all of us have great computers not all of 
 us have great computers not all of us have great computers not all of us have great computers not 
 all of us have great computers not all of us have great computers not all of us have great computers 
 not all of us have great computers not all of us have great computers not all of us have great 
 computers not all of us have great computers not all of us have great computers not all of us have 
 great computers not all of us have great computers not all of us have great computers not all of 
 us have great computers not all of us have great computers not all of us have great computers not 
 all of us have great computers not all of us have great computers not all of us have great computers 
 not all of us have great computers not all of us have great computers not all of us have great 
 computers not all of us have great computers not all of us have great computers not all of us have 
 great computers not all of us have great computers not all of us have great computers not all of 
 us have great computers not all of us have great computers not all of us have great computers not 
 all of us have great computers not all of us have great computers not all of us have great computers 
 not all of us have great computers not all of us have great computers not all of us have great 
 computers not all of us have great computers not all of us have great computers not all of us have 
 great computers not all of us have great computers not all of us have great computers not all of 
 us have great computers 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kamber87
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 20, 2006 3:14 pm PT
Review:  This game is freakin great. If you loved the other two parts, you shouldn't, by any means, miss 
 this trilogy ending. It makes the full circle with other two games and represents the best of "sands 
 of time" (great babylon streets, oriental feeling and a narrative story) and "warrior within" (great 
 battles, fighting tree, environment interaction, and darkness) and some new elements like speed 
 kill. It also has a story that will send shivers down your spine, because it is interesting more 
 than any other story you've ever heard. This is a must have. Though it is a bit harder than other 
 two games, i think the fans will love this game nevertheless. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: saleem84
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 20, 2006 3:04 am PT
Review:  The Trilogy has an amazing end and it deserve to go in top ranked games. All that is needed now 
 is a Hollywood movie for this series. The Game has set new standards of game playing especially 
 sword attacking skills. So there is a lot in the game to look at. The introduction of the dark prince 
 and his fights with the enemies were superb. Everybody would have liked the new speed kill and 
 free fighting system which is introduced in this game. The Return of Farah is also a great plus 
 to this game though she has not that much contribution paid as much she did in "Sands of Time". 
 So all in all the game is one of the best of its time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jazzycmk
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 20, 2006 1:09 am PT
Review:  Prince of Persia - The Two Thrones combines the best elements of the first two POP games and in 
 doing so closes out the series with a bang. It returns to the narrated storytelling from POP The 
 Sands of Time, while also keeping the much-improved combat system from POP Warrior Within. It also 
 retains the great platforming action from both of those games which is implemented through an easy 
 control system.
  
  Ability to play as The Dark Prince, the Prince's evil alter ego also shakes things up from time 
 to time. The combat for the Dark Prince is much different with his chain-like Daggertail and open 
 up a lot of new combat possibilities.
  
  Conversations between the Prince and the Dark Prince (taking place in the mind of whichever version 
 of the Prince you are currently playing) are actually pretty clever. Dialogue flows pretty naturally 
 and has some fairly comic moments.
  
  Both the Prince and Dark Prince can now do "speed kills", a kind of stealth kill that allows you 
 to instantly take out your enemies by timing buttons when presented with visual/audio cues. Gamespot 
 review was on target when it said pulling off a speed kill offers appropriate amount of challenge. 
 You'll be able to pull off a speed kill often enough that you'll want to keep doing it because 
 of the cool animations, but they're not so easy that the novelty quickly wears off. 
  
  Due to the speed kills and other combat options, Gamespot was right in that Sand Powers become 
 an afterthought in this game, although most of the powers from the earlier games are available 
 if you want them. You'll still be using Rewind to correct mistakes, as well as the ability to slow 
 down time to beat some of the traps, but the powers really aren't needed too much to get through 
 the combat sequences.
  
  Level design is extremely varied, getting away from a lot of the repetitive backtracking in "Warrior 
 Within". There are levels on the streets, rooftops, and sewers of Babylon, before spending the 
 majority of the time in castle-like environments. Paths are pretty linear, although there is the 
 added challenge of finding the six health fountains that are on paths that divert from your main 
 objective. Upon finding the fountain and drinking from it, you are presented with a new platforming 
 challenge. Upon finishing the sequence, your health is permanently increased which can come in 
 handy for some of the battles down the line.
  
  Also new are a couple sequences where the Prince gets to hop on board a chariot and race along 
 the streets of Babylon. These sequence will require a bit of trial and error in learning the twists 
 and turns of the streets, and your chariot will shatter if it hits anything solidly. However, the 
 sequences aren't too long and offer a nice change of pace from the usual platforming and combat.
 
  
  Boss fights also offer appropriate amounts of challenge. You'll probably use a few lives poking 
 at the weak spots of the bosses, but once you find them, exploiting them isn't too difficult.
 
  
  Anyone who had played either of the previous POP games will pick this up quickly. Normal difficulty 
 took me about 15 hours, and I'm not the fastest gamer out there.
  
  Only real complaint is with a couple of the Dark Prince sequences. While playing as the Dark Prince, 
 you will constantly lose health that can only be replenished by killing enemies, or breaking containers 
 holding the Sands of Time. Unfortunately there are also a few long platforming sequences thrown 
 in with the Dark Prince with no enemies or containers in sight. Some of this platforming really 
 requires you to look around to figure out where you go next, but all the while your life is draining 
 from you. This leads to a few sequences that have to be played over numerous times to figure out 
 the path.
  
  For those liking closure in their trilogies, they won't be disappointed. Two Thrones reintroduces 
 many of the characters from the first two games, and ties up the story in a pretty tight knot by 
 the end.
  
  Just wish all sequels were this enjoyable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Macetein
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 19, 2006 2:16 pm PT
Review:  Ok, so, i got the game, cool, great intro, tried to remember where Warrior Within left the story... 
 Start playing, the graphics seem a little worse :S... keep playing... Oh, what's this??, Stealth 
 Kills??, OOOHH, THAT's SOO COOL!!
  And what's this??? Dark Prince... OH, COOL, and that???, WACKY CHAIN!, OOH!!! DOUBLE COOLNESS!! 
 YEAH; Dark Prince RULEZ!!!
  
  The story of the game kicks ass, but... the game is very very short compared to the others! : (
 
  
  Boss Battles are great
  
  I would've liked the option to choose ur path, I mean, reach a certain point where you're given 
 the choice to continue as The Prince or as The Dark Prince, it could've been fun :D
  
  Great game though!!
  
  Have Fun 
::::::

::::::
UserName: December_Man
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 19, 2006 2:02 pm PT
Review:  This review is gonna be a short one.
  
  The Two Thrones are an example of what fanatic loyalty to fans can do to a game.
  
  The developers 
 clearly wanted to satisfy the fans of SoT. They left out some very interesting ideas and cut out 
 the already implemented and shown in Warrior Within. They basically castrated it.
  
  What did they left out? 
  An open ended game mechanics (WW) . The feeling of freedom of choice 
 is gone. Imagine an open ended Babylon...
  The role the dark prince was supposed to play. When I started to play the game, I thought the DP 
 is gonna have influence on some major events - mainly because I thought that after the transformation 
 he's gonna control the prince's body. But no, they threw that away too.
  The feeling of being haunted by the whole city. After the trailers I was made to believe there 
 are gonna be some chases after the prince who was to be powerless against his oppressors. In the 
 final game there no chases at all. What's more, the speedkills give a feeling of being a hunter, 
 thus a complete opposite one.
  
  That's not all. It seems that after the castration, they didn't implement anything in exchange, 
 thus making the game very short and very easy.
  
  Whats left to say? Disappointing. It could've been so much more...
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lavalleema
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 18, 2006 7:08 pm PT
Review:  The Two Thrones gives you all of the game play that everyone has loved since The Sands of Time, 
 and the great fighting options of Warrior Within minus the attitude. I have the PC version, and 
 while I think I would have rather had the XBOX version, the PC game is still worth the money and 
 time to play it. 
  
  On the PC game, moving your mouse to view is tedious. I've found that it's best to just move the 
 prince with the movement keys, let the camera adjust and then if I need to use the mouse, for the 
 most part, this works fine. The graphics on the PC version are great, and the sound is good. Once 
 you work out the controls, you'll find that the PC game isn't as clunky as it might feel at first.
 
  
  I didn't give this game a great replay score because I probably won't play it again. I'll probably 
 sell it on ebay when I'm done, in fact. However, the game will probably give you hours of enjoyment 
 before yo uninstall it and put it away for good.
  
  The new features, such as speed kills and stealth kills, as well as the dark prince are excellent. 
 I can't imagine playing a Prince of Persia game without them, now that I've gotten used to it.
 
  
  If you like Prince of Persia and only have a PC, you should feel good about picking this up, it's 
 worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: terryprior
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 18, 2006 9:21 am PT
Review:  At certain points throughout Two Thrones the Prince will lose control to the Sand corruption that 
 takes him and the Dark Prince will arise. A brutal monster, this entity has been designed by Ubisoft 
 to assist in slowly revealing the mystery behind the Prince of Persia by highlighting his darker 
 motivations and comparing them against the lighter, more conventional hero we've known for years. 
 We learn about Dr. Jekyll by seeing more of Mr. Hyde. 
  The two disparate Princes should create a very compelling story, narrated now by the non-Monica 
 Bellucci Kaileena and accented by the excellent in-game vocals of Sands of Time's Yuri Lowenthal. 
 The Princes also add a new layer of gameplay. Light Prince was designed with a sense of urgency 
 and immediacy built into his character's segments. He's a champion, to be sure, but he's alone 
 in his own city and hunted by an unknown army. The Dark Prince, on the other hand, is the hunter. 
 He assaults enemies, ripping the sand right out of them to replenish his own life much like Warrior 
 Within's Wraith did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tarek75
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 18, 2006 3:42 am PT
Review:  yes.. yes... yes.... that is what i keep saying after each impossible jump or complicated moves i 
 done in this fascinating and wonderful game ever. 
  it is not the amazing graphics or the fantastic sound tracks and effects or the new era of camera 
 angles and motion, no that are not enough to describe this game, man... they have gone too far this 
 time bringing the stunning extraordinary set of moves and skills to prince character.
  when i am playing i just keep telling my self "ok, that is it, these are all the new moves and jumps", but 
 the surprises keeps coming level after level in a way that makes finishing the game is a dream 
 that you don't want to come true someday ,because with prince of persia T2T there is another definition 
 for playing a game and having fun.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nasrbox
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 17, 2006 3:17 pm PT
Review:  this is on of the greatest games with its all three parts. i was waiting fro the thired part of 
 this game. I enjoyed this game as i finished the game i wished if there will be a fourth part. 
 it have excellent graphics. it is easy to play but it need some thinking and a quick attack. i 
 am one of these people who plays just the great games. i takes a bit of time to **** but wort it. 
 there is alot of new ideas tricks and suspense in this game. i prafer that how didn't play the 
 pop at all to start from the first one just to understand the whole game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SSDD87
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 13, 2006 11:39 pm PT
Review:  Recently just got it, Love it, play it, call it George. This game was worth the $40 and I will 
 not stop till I beat it. Beside the graphics clipping and the somewhat odd models, this game is 
 great. I haven't played an action/adventure forever, so I decided to pick this up. Its definitely 
 not a waste of money or time. I take a little while to master all the moves but its well worth 
 it. Some of the attacks off of the walls are just amazing. The story-line is very impressive. It 
 keeps up the standards set by its predecessors. Add this game to your collection or face assimilation. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kangwoolee
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jan 12, 2006 7:23 pm PT
Review:  I love the Prince of Persia series I mean the old school. However this game wasn't all that craked 
 up to be. I loved it yet it felt repetive. I mean it's cool to be able to change your personality. 
 However, the puzzeles are the same. I would definetly recomend it but it still felt it lacked certain 
 needs. I loved however the new personalty was amazing. you could cut people off with the chains 
 and the cool part was that you have to kill to refresh your health because you gradually lose health 
 when youu turn Dark. The boss battles was a little disapointing no need for skills. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spy_of_chaos
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 11, 2006 5:21 pm PT
Review:  Recently, I've been playing Prince of Persia: The Two Thrones and to be honnest, I've never played 
 any of it's prequels and I seriously didn't apreciate the Prince of Persia series and tought that 
 it would totaly s***, but it's actualy quite good. I'm realy suprised of the quality, interface 
 and the good story line. If you're looking for a good action/adventure game, Prince of Persia: 
 The Two Thrones is for you! I don't want to give out any spoilers so I suggest you to buy or at 
 least rent this terrific game. This game is so good that I played Prince of Persia about 60 hours 
 up to date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fitnessrower
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 10, 2006 8:27 am PT
Review:  POPT2T is one of the best games i ever played on my pc. Especially the last release is perfect, Nice 
 graphics characters and most of all the best scenario. The scenario of the prince of persia warrior 
 within was a little confusing but the Prince returns with T2T to show us what a good game looks 
 like. A little easy game but very nice for beginners. Its easy to learn the controls of the game 
 and easy to continue playing, The alter Ego of the prince is perfect he is fast and strong and none 
 can get in his road! nice work from Ubisoft for designing him.
  i give 10/10 for this game cause its a relly good game with nice  
 AND PUZZLES. You should really buy it cause its worth your money! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krixter
Rating: 6.9
Date: Jan 9, 2006 7:47 pm PT
Review:  Well, after finishing both of the first PoP's, i really wanted to play T2T, but when I finally 
 got it, I was kinda disappointed.
  
  First of all, the story isn't as much fun as in The Sands of Time or Warrior Within, it's so guessable 
 what happens in the end - you go kill the boss (not saying who's the boss so as not to ruin the 
 game for those who haven't played it) and all ends well. And there's no surprise in that direction, 
 just a small twist that actually has no effect on the outcome.
  
  The game itself was way too easy for me at normal level at least. As a "veteran" of PoP's, no puzzles 
 were hard to figure out and the jumping, wallrunnig/bouncing came just automatically, only thing 
 you need is a few tries - the camera angles make things really annoying sometimes.
  
  About the speed kills - they are nice, add some flavour to it, although later on, when you get 
 your father's sword, you don't need to do anything except hit the mobs once with it and they die, 
 making the later "combat" (not calling that combat) really boring.
  
  About the dark prince - combat while you are him is really fun, the daggertail owns. However, most 
 of the time the dark prince sequences end so quickly that you really can't even get into it when 
 you already switch back to the regular prince, which really disappointed me.
  
  There is some dialogue between you and the dark prince, but it's nothing too fancy, just a bit 
 of character development, which is nice.
  
  All in all, I would say that the Sands of Time is by far the strongest in the series - it's not 
 long, but it really keeps you going with fast action (although combat in later games is better) , 
 interesting story and fun dialogue between the prince and Farah. The same thing occurs in T2T, 
 but it just seems old, 'cause there's nothing about it that really grabs you into the story.
  
  That's my 2 cents, I hope it was helpful. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: felraiser
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 8, 2006 9:34 pm PT
Review:  Prince of Persia: The Warrior Within is universally seen as a step back from its predecessor, but 
 this is not because it made no effort to better the series core gameplay. Ubisoft did make real, 
 if small, improvements to combat in Warrior Within, but they mistakenly allowed the games darker 
 style to push the not-so-improved fighting to the forefront, making for a largely tedious game 
 apart from the unchanged platforming. WWs successor, however, avoids this trap. Prince of Persia: 
 The Two Thrones contains improvements to every part of the game that streamline the overall product 
 and do not imbalance the experience.
  
  The speed kill mechanic, as described on the second page of Gamespots review, is the most effective 
 combat innovation in The Two Thrones. It lets you skip or shorten your time facing enemies in WWs 
 clunky and poorly balanced style and replaces that time with satisfying and great-looking sequences. 
 Most of the bad combat in the game can be skipped through these kills up until the end of the game, 
 where (for some unknown reason) the forced combat situations increase greatly in number and difficulty. 
 Note that I said bad combat, though  there are actually some good fights in the game!
  
  Almost all of these occur while playing as the Dark Prince, your well-acted, arrogant, and conniving 
 alter ego. Sands of Time drop much more frequently for the Dark Prince, and each one you collect 
 fully refills his health. Plus, the long daggertail weapon he wields allows for crushing techniques 
 with multiple targets. This makes the large-scale battles you fight as the DP very simple to complete. 
 Your health decreases without Sands, however, and you will die after while, so the emphasis is 
 on your timing and speed while platforming. The regular Prince has some nice battles as well, though. 
 The Vizier and Klompa are great bosses that test your ground combat, platforming, and speed-killing 
 proficiency at the same time, and regular enemies at the very end of the story become jokes after 
 you receive the King of Persias super-powerful scimitar as a secondary weapon. No matter the character, 
 however, TTTs open combat is much improved over that of Warrior Within.
  
  Real thought was clearly put into upgrading the exploration of The Two Thrones as well. The Prince 
 can now climb on top of poles from which he could merely swing before, and versatile daggerplates 
 and diagonally-launching shutters make wall movement more diverse. The Dark Prince brings his own 
 style of platforming, with quick daggertail-accelerated jumps, swings, and wallrunning that give 
 the action a refreshing jolt of intensity. Also, landscape view has become much more intuitive 
 and useful, completely taking the place of the fly-throughs seen in the first two games. It isnt 
 all flawless, though. The timing required for use of shutters and Dark Prince wallrunning is a 
 bit touchy, and the booby-trapped hallways in the game are actually more frustrating that those 
 of Warrior Within. But these are minor squabbles when compared to the problems of one long sequence 
 about two thirds of the way through the game.
  
  This sequence begins with a chariot ride, the only one in the game that I found to be frustrating. 
 It funnels you through thin roads littered with junk that will disrupt your control of the vehicle 
 and enemies that attack you from all sides, making for a difficult trial-and-error sequence. But 
 thats not all! Right after that, you get to fight the most difficult boss in the game! Im totally 
 serious. That bit is by far the worst in the game.
  
  While The Two Thrones, as just demonstrated, has a few infrequent gameplay issues, its graphical 
 flaws are obvious throughout. The Prince and Farah (yes, shes here) look downright awful compared 
 to the rest of the game. The biggest failing is the animation of their hair. Its totally out of 
 control! The Princes hair flies through his head in cutscenes, and Farahs thick ponytail somehow 
 finds its way through her chest at times! I dont know how such a strange and prominent error could 
 get into a final release of a top-tier game.
  
  The other real letdown of The Two Thrones is that its a fairly short game and theres really no 
 reason to play it multiple times. The story also ends on a flat note compared to its earlier parts 
  you cant die or make any sort of choice in the last level, and the ending movie doesnt really 
 need to be there. I think the whole last level should have been made into a cinematic instead. 
 Anyways, once youve seen the end theres really nothing else to do. The rewards for beating 
 the game at various difficulties can be gotten without actually playing through the game, and the 
 prices for each piece of unlockable artwork (paid in credits collected with each Sand of Time) 
 are ridiculously high. With all of this added onto the completely linear story, repeated play wont 
 provide any new thrills.
  
  Still, Prince of Persia: The Two Thrones is a success. The Warrior Withins ridiculous atmosphere 
 has been dropped, most of the core gameplay has been renovated or at least touched up, and despite 
 its sometimes ugly flaws, the game is a strong production that deserves a spot in your collection.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: yavo
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jan 7, 2006 6:48 pm PT
Review:  I have played all three PoP game out of which i liked warrior within the most... i liked cutting 
 enemies apart to the beat of godsmack in the background... and now they've removed it!!!! though 
 the game is still worth playing for ppl who don't care about sound tht much and also for PoP fans 
 (like me!!) the game sets off from the previous game. When the prince returns to babylon, however 
 PoP 2 had 2 endings one you would kill Kaileena and dahaka is happy... or 2nd u kill the dahaka 
 and save kaileena. in the beggining of the 3rd game it is tht u chose to save kaileeena. 
  graphics are a let down now... pop2's graphics were neat but Pop3's graphics are a let down, and 
 wht the hell happened to the prince... he now talks like he's..... batman. though the new stealth 
 kill feature is real cool 
::::::

::::::
UserName: glhal2005
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 7, 2006 5:33 am PT
Review:  POP 3 Is an excellent game. It has all the positive points of sands of time
  and warrior within and has eliminated almost all of the negative points of warrior within and sands 
 of time. It does not have a dark theme anymore
  and the prince we loved from the sands of time is back. It still has the free form fighting system 
 of warrior within which allows us to use several finishing moves to finish off our enenmies. It 
 has a even better addition known as the speed kill which lets us finish off our enemies even before 
 they know the prince is there. There are lots of new enemies and puzles which we all love as well. There 
 is still the gravity defying acrobatics that only the prince can pull off from the previous 2 games 
 and there are even a few more new ones. the golden glow from the first game is back as well. The 
 dark prince is fun to play with especially in combat as it is extremely easy to kill an enemy as 
 the dark prince but beware that as the dark prince your health gradually decreases but is not really 
 a factor as there are plenty of enemies to replenish your health and almiost all the potteries 
 give sand when you are playing as the dark prince. Farah is also back in this game. All this, driven 
 by an excellent story makes PRINCE OF PERSIA 3: THE TWO THRONES the best game of the PRINCE OF PERSIA 
 trilogy. A TRULY GREAT GAME. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bobi22
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 7, 2006 4:18 am PT
Review:  pop a mompop a mompop a mompop a mompop a mompop a mompop a mompop a mompop a mompop a mompop a 
 mompop a mompop a mompop a mompop a mompop a mompop a mompop a mompop a mompop a mompop a mompop 
 a mompop a mompop a mompop a mompop a mompop a mompop a mompop a mompop a mompop a mompop a mompop 
 a mompop a mompop a mompop a mompop a mompop a mompop a mompop a mompop a mompop a mompop a mompop 
 a mompop a mompop a mompop a mompop a mompop a mompop a mompop a mompop a mompop a mompop a mompop 
 a mompop a mompop a mompop a mompop a mompop a mompop a mompop a momvv 
::::::

::::::
UserName: guru512
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 7, 2006 2:15 am PT
Review:  It's the best game of the trilogy. There are more tricks, big environment, lots of beautiful fighting. While 
 playing prince you try to be sneaky, you DON"T want to be seen, and playing dark prince you fell 
 like only fighting because it's almost absolutely different than playing good prince. But the fights 
 are very good with each of them. Speed kill is kind of fun. You sneak to your enemy from his back 
 and kill him with very beautiful moves! And you will have fun while playing with the chariots. Boss 
 fight are a bit to hard especially when you have to fight sword and axe.
  Graphics are bit disappointing. Because of huge areas the texture quality reduces, but all in all 
 graphics are quite good. The animation is good too.
  The sound are very very good but one thing makes me angry. When people are speaking you can't hear 
 anything because they are speaking very bad.
  The story is quite good but a bit disappointing.
  All in all this is a great game to play! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matarsak
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jan 6, 2006 8:00 pm PT
Review:  Don't want to say too much about it, all I can say is this that I didn't expect something like 
 this. After a strong story & a revolution in combats "POP II - warrior within" I was expecting 
 something atleast like that. If you remember warrior within you could use many amazing combats 
 that u hadn't inthe sands of time" but in "POP III" we just had 2 more combats. Besides "POP 
 I - the sand of time" was something new, something that made changes to action games, warrior 
 within" had a strong story, I can say that nobody could guess prince will go home with her enemy 
 as a lover! & when he returns home everything is burning, also "POP II" had 2 completely different 
 ends, but as all we could guess "POP III" had a happy ending (like all indian films) that the bad 
 guy or guys die & the boy can be with her maiden although in "POP II" the old man told him "his 
 journey will not end well" &No one can change his fate". it's true prince was after changing 
 his fate but he saw no punishment for all that he caused to his people & his family.
  
  After all these although the story was too poor in front of "POP II" & combats was more enjoyable 
 in both "POP I& "POP II", I can say I like prince, himself, so much , when he was on top of 
 the tower I could feel my heart beat & I can say with all shortcomings in "POP III - the two thrones" 
 I like the game & I think I'll play it again.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cheeji
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 6, 2006 6:53 am PT
Review:  Great but not superb
  
  Im a die heart fan of POP. Playing since the earliest DOS version of it and loving it since then. 
 Gaming has changed since then so is the POP. After playing POP Warrior Within the most amazing 
 installment of POP, I was very excited about Two Thrones. Got my copy the very day it was available 
 and started playing. 
  In this review I will be comparing the game with Warrior Within.
  
  Story Line
  Story continues from Warrior Within 2nd ending. Prince travel back to Babylon 
 with Kaileena and the game starts where you have to save her. Since this is the conclusion of the 
 previous 2 installments so you wont find many surprises in the story. Overall the storyline is 
 pretty good
  
  Graphics
  The graphics are wonderful. I was really amazed by the graphics. The environments are so rich that 
 you tend to move around just to observe the creativity of POP team. The really put a lot of brains 
 to think of such Babylon. You will really start to imagine that these guys (creators) have been 
 there when prince was struggling to save Kaileena. Some of the details are unbelievably fine. Lighting 
 and rendering has improved a lot.
  
  Game Play
  In Two Thrones you really have to deal with Camera angles. At places it frustrates you. I guess 
 the developers have done it to make it more challenging but its irritating more than a challenge. 
 Full view is only available at certain places unlike Warrior Within.
  
  Few new things are added in the game play. But most of the fighting styles are very similar to 
 Warrior Within. You can come up with few new combos. The interesting part of the fighting is SPEED 
 KILL or in gaming world we also call it stealth. Speed kill has made the game very interesting. 
 It does take time to learn it but once you get to know it, you will enjoy killing your huge enemies 
 when they are not even aware of you. After sometime you will try to kill every enemy with speed 
 kill. Its really fun. But the other hand it has made the game quite easy. 
  Dark prince is a real aggressive fighter. Most of us will enjoy playing with dark prince. Few more 
 challenges come along the way while playing with dark prince. Game play changes a lot and makes 
 the game more challenging. 
  Apart from fighting the game has some good puzzles that will make u scratch your head a lot. Wall 
 runs are more interesting than ever. Sometimes you have to do few thing while running on the wall. 
 Speed kill while wall run make the price one of the coolest game hero. This does take time and 
 a lot of sands to practice but its all worth the cool.
  
  Sounds and Voiceovers
  Background sounds are more like Sands of time. I think it was a good change since Warrior Within 
 was full of loud Rock music. Some to the voiceovers are ridiculous. I think Dark prince should 
 have some dark heavy voiceover. At times voiceovers really kill the environments and your mood. 
 But I must admit the dialogues between prince and dark prince are interesting and ironic.
  
  Conclusion
  Two Thrones is a great game but not as superb as Warrior Within. Amazing Graphics, 
 good storyline and game play, bad voiceovers of well designed characters and fine cut scenes makes 
 Two Throne a great game to play. But I think they could have come up with much better version of 
 it. I still love the game and recommend to all of you. The review is only critical because I was 
 expecting better than Warrior Within and in comparison Warrior Within beat Two Thrones. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jackazz17
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 5, 2006 2:24 pm PT
Review:  Everyone who says that a game these days needs a multiplayer to have any kind of replay value should 
 play this game. The levels are big, the action is constant and intense, and the controls (whether 
 you're using a gamepad or standard mouse and keyboard) let you easily enjoy both.
  
  The Prince himself lost the "badditude" which was such a huge criticism with the last game, and 
 it's refreshing to see that the developers worked with that. It seems they almost are poking fun 
 at themselves, as the darker alter ego of the prince (named simply, Dark Prince) is very cynical 
 and sarcastic and is, frankly, not very likable at all, much like how the Prince was in Warrior 
 Within.
  
  As said before, the gameplay in The Two Thrones is simply outstanding. All the variations of moves 
 that the prince can do is mind bending, and what's more, all of them are actually used. Every move 
 was thought out and can be fully utilized to help you solve puzzles and / or defeat your enemies. 
 However, even with all of your moves, the single player campaign has a healthy level of difficulty 
 to it. For example, you can only refill your health at the save game fountains, otherwise it's 
 all up to you staying alive. And when one of the basic enemies can take down roughly half your 
 health if he (it?) gets a good three hit combo on you, it's likely that you'll die often throughout 
 the game. What's more, you'll probably die more trying to solve the game's almost constant environmental 
 puzzles. This all adds up to a bunch of variety, and it is a very lengthy campaign, so you'll have 
 plenty of time to practice each kind. You'll split time evenly between battling foes and running 
 across walls, and both are enjoyable. The Dark Prince adds a whole new style to your play. He is 
 much stronger and so therefore will be able to take on more enemies with ease. His health, however, 
 is constantly dropping so you'll feel a bit rushed, which at times is kind of a shame but it keeps 
 the tension up.
  
  All of this is offset though by the series' signature feature, and that is the ability to turn 
 back time. For instance, say you fall to your death after running along a wall and mis-timing a 
 jump, just simply rewind time and try again. This would make the game too easy, except that you 
 only have a limited amount of times to do this and must continue killing enemies to refill your 
 "sand orbs." This game also adds in other "sand powers" such as slow down time and a kind of sand 
 blast attack that pushes away all nearby enemies. However, most of these end up being pretty useless, 
 although you will from time to time use the slow down time power to solve an environmental puzzle.
 
  
  Graphically speaking, the game seems a little bit behind. The environments are great, they really 
 make it look like your running through the streets of an ancient Babylonian town, leaping from 
 roof top to roof top. However, the character models are pretty weak. There are a lot of detail 
 work missing and if you're looking for it, it will stand out. Chances are, however, you won't really 
 be looking for details, as the animations (especially of the Prince) show really nicely and smoothly 
 as he's effortlessly leaping across the sky. The voice acting is great, from the noble sounding 
 prince, to the cynical, wise-cracking Dark Prince. The music, which has an Indian theme to it, 
 fits in nicely with the environments and actually transitions nicely when the action heats up.
 
  
  Overall, I recommend this game to anyone who simply wants a good game that they can sit down and 
 play. Contrary to popular belief, a keyboard and mouse work just fine with this game. The developers 
 gave this game a lot of thought and work, and it definitely shows.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wolf-5
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 4, 2006 9:38 pm PT
Review:  Thinking back to the first prince of persia, I remember being so psyched by the crazy acrobatic 
 stunts pulled of by the prince, it was simply amazing and the story was great. Then came warrior 
 within, witch was ok, darker but fun but not as good. Two Thrones is better then warrior and makes 
 you feel like the did a better job getting the game back on track. As for my opinion playing this 
 game on PC... don't. Unless you don't have an Xbox. You can't miss the fact that this game was 
 ment to be played at like 800 resolutions rather then 1280 +
  Don't get me wrong the game is great, I just wish I bought it for xbox, for then the pixily bad 
 resolution backgrounds and weapons would match the high res prince and levels. Big plus though 
 for PC users, if you have one, is the EAX enhanced sound. Still a must play game as all the other 
 prince games. ENJOY! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: digitalrift
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 1, 2006 8:07 pm PT
Review:  A great game and excellent finale to the series with unfortunate flaws that may put off gamers.
 
  
  Prince of Persia: The Two Thrones is the last in a trilogy of games based in spirit and name upon 
 the popular Prince of Persia game and its sequel. That being said, the formula for the games has 
 been recast completely since the original games  rather than the run and jump approach the original 
 games excelled at and perhaps even revolutionized, the new Prince of Persia series has taken a 
 sort of stereotypical ninja or Matrix-esque approach to the platform genre and acrobatic moves 
 are brought to the forefront in this game. The trilogy has also relied a great deal upon the concept 
 of time, allowing the player to essentially rewind or slow down time for increased control, something 
 which becomes absolutely necessary with complex maneuvers being required with both the platform 
 and combat aspects of the game. Only the second game, Warrior Within (reviled for its sudden recasting 
 of the Prince; popular webcomic Penny Arcade perhaps put it best when they drew the Prince with 
 the line I smolder with generic rage.) dabbled in the inevitably mind-twisting concept of time 
 travel. With that, we will now segue into discussing the
  
  STORY
  The Two Thrones picks up from the alternate ending of Warrior Within (achieved by collecting every 
 life upgrade and defeating the Dahaka with the Water Sword) rather than the regular ending, and 
 thus some gamers may be lost at the beginning of the game. The story is extremely simple in concept, 
 again as opposed to that of Warrior Within which involved time travel, twists, turns, and sudden 
 revelations. However, it is extremely well executed. The premise is that though the Prince had 
 saved Kaileena and they had returned to Babylon, the city is no longer as the Prince once knew. 
 Kaileena is captured upon return and killed with the Prince looking on, and thus the Sands of Time 
 are released for the third or fourth time in the series. A rogue cloud of dust beelines for the 
 Princes arm, embedding itself in his body and psyche, perhaps splitting his mind into a good and 
 an evil part, perhaps creating an evil part, or perhaps reviving that part of his mind that had 
 been evil at some point. A case is made that this split persona pre-existed the Sand in his arm 
 when a reference was made to how well the Prince did back on the Island of Time, the setting 
 for Warrior Within. Exchanges occur between the Prince and the Dark Prince, which are extremely 
 well written and acted, and serve to give you some food for thought as you traverse the games 
 wide expanses. Exchanges also occur between Farrah and the Prince, which are also well done and 
 interesting because the Prince and Farrah had developed a strong relationship over the course of 
 the Sands of Time, the first game of the trilogy, which was erased when the Prince rewound time 
 to before the hourglass containing them was opened, essentially solving his key folly of the game. 
 The epic struggle between the Dark Prince and the Prince often revolves not around Babylon, but 
 over Farrah and the merits of spending time assisting or listening to her. The Dark Prince is not 
 limited to the story, however, he also figures a great deal into the
  
  GAMEPLAY
  The Two Thrones is the culmination of the series, and also of the developers learning about the 
 series and the games they have made. Elements of the previous games which were enjoyed are brought 
 to the forefront, and widely disliked elements are minimized. That being said, though, the folks 
 at Ubisoft Montreal certainly did not limit themselves to simply rehashing the formulas of the 
 previous games. Speed kills, a prominent figure in the game, are an entirely new concept to the 
 game. A great fusing of stealth, acrobatics, and stylish moves, the speed kill system relies on 
 several things. In reverse chronological order, the primary input is during the actual kill, where 
 the Prince will wreak havoc upon his prey, and at given intervals, the game will freeze, your dagger 
 will flash, and you will have a split second to respond with a click to continue with the kill. 
 Most enemies take 3 strokes, while some take 5. The mechanic features prominently in boss fights 
 as well, with a majority of the bosses in the game having some speed kill segment during play if 
 not the only segment involved in the destruction of the boss. Something must also be said for the 
 boss battles in the game. There are relatively few bosses in the game, and they are split very 
 evenly between incessantly annoying and very epic and well-executed. One example of a poorly planned 
 boss is one where you fight two people at once; the game lacks any sort of solid targeting system 
 and the combo system likes to kick in more than it should so it is nearly impossible to break off 
 attacking one boss and attack the other, both of whom are often within inches of each other or 
 on opposite sides of you, before you are knocked on the ground and before you get a chance to recover, 
 hacked to bits. Another significant flaw with this scenario was in the level design, not of the 
 local surroundings, but in the lack of foresight in planning the overall level order of the game. 
 Specifically, the level immediately before is one of the two chariot riding portions in the game 
 that deliberately control poorly (after all, since when did horse-drawn chariots turn on a dime, 
 right?) and require a decent chunk of your sand reserves to correct the inevitable mistakes jumping 
 over chasms and avoiding barricades. There is no chance to refill your sand tanks during or after 
 this sequence, and so by the time you finally get to the twin bosses, you are running low on the 
 critical sand. This kind of specific flaw that only relates to one segment of the game is the kind 
 of flaw that The Two Thrones tends to exhibit. There are other cases which are similar, and while 
 frustrating, actually not all that common.
  The rest of the game, however, plays out very nicely. Elements already in the platforming segments 
 of previous games are continued grandly, and are augmented by several new elements. The first is 
 a type of plate that are embedded in walls that you can plunge your dagger into and thus stay suspended 
 in the middle of a wall. From here you can wallrun, jump away from the wall, or jump higher on 
 the wall. Some people seem to loathe these devices for various reasons and while I do agree that 
 it is marginally annoying that it takes a second or two for the Prince to center himself on each 
 plate and the controls feel a little jumpy at first, after the first two or three plates you encounter, 
 the mechanics feel completely solid. The other new element of the game are springboards built into 
 walls  you can wallrun onto them then jump to spring off of them at a predetermined angle and 
 direction. These are marginally annoying in that you have to hit them almost square in the center 
 otherwise you may completely miss your target, but its nothing a quick rewind with sand wont 
 solve.
  The Dark Prince also adds another dimension to gameplay. At certain points throughout the game 
 your arm will take over and the Prince will become a sand creature. As in previous games, in this 
 state, your health will slowly drop but collecting sand will instantly replenish it. The only other 
 significantly different thing about the Prince is that you have the use of a whip which not only 
 makes combat a breeze, it can be used as a rope swing of sorts to swing across gaps or extend your 
 wallruns by swinging off wall lamps. The Dark Prince is no gimmick. Though the actual changes to 
 the Prince seem minimal, it is the level design that really makes the Dark Prince concept shine 
 through. While you are the Dark Prince, levels are suddenly much less puzzle or combat based, though 
 elements of combat appear. Instead, levels reflect a very adrenaline based experience featuring 
 fast action, showy acrobatic segments where you spend as much as half a minute off of solid ground 
 and in constant motion, using ninja move after ninja move which feel completely intuitive and flow 
 from one to another in a rush of the moment, and short, violent battles  all qualities which reflect 
 the psychological nature of the Dark Prince. Segments where you play as the Dark Prince often play 
 out like races to get through a certain segment of acrobatics within time, though most of the time 
 there is not much challenge  for the most part, segments cut it close with your ever-diminishing 
 health but even with mistakes it is easy to find the next cache of jars or chairs which contain 
 Sand to replenish the Princes health.
  Something must also be said for the camera control. The camera rotates at an excruciatingly slow 
 rate, even with mouse sensitivity set as high as it goes. It takes as many as four or five swipes 
 of the mouse to pan the camera 360 degrees. Also, the moment you start moving, the camera snaps 
 back to a game-defined following camera, even if you are still in the process of moving your mouse. 
 When the two actions coincide, the camera jitters frantically.
  Overall, the gameplay in this new Prince of Persia game is extremely solid, and compounded with 
 extremely solid and natural feeling level design, create a visceral gaming experience that flows 
 right along and completely overpowers the few glaringly flawed segments. The only flaws occur in 
 isolated places and with the exception of the camera flaw, not with the game engine itself.
  
  SOUND
  Very solid. The music is repetitive at times but mostly not in an irritating way at 
 all. As the official GameSpot review noted, the music is more something youd expect from a Middle 
 Eastern-themed game and eschews the rock found in Warrior Within. The battle theme cue is immensely 
 helpful in preparing for battle with foes even before you see them, or in a few cases, if they 
 are impossible to see.
  
  GRAPHICS
  Same engine, it seems. Light bloom is still featured prominently. Where the game really excels 
 is the art direction. The cities and castles feel like they could really be used as cities or castles 
 rather than just jungles for your monkey Prince to swing around in  the game feels dark where 
 it should, and bright when it should. The graphics arent revolutionary, but are extraordinarily 
 solid.
  
  VALUE
  Rent it multiple times, or wait for the price to drop. If you are fanatical about the gameplay, 
 buy it, but otherwise, the game, while fantastic, isnt worth multiple playthroughs in succession. 
 There is no multiplayer to speak of. There is a Sand Credits incentive to play through the game 
 multiple times to rack up enough credits to view all the bonus content shipped with the game, but 
 one playthrough is often times enough to collect all the 1500 credits required. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BruteDux
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 1, 2006 6:07 pm PT
Review:  If millions of people played Prince of Persia (1 and 2) , at the 90's, billions will play this new 
 game. Its a noble work from Ubisoft. The game has action from beginning to end and it has the essence 
 of RPG in it story. Prince of Persia is darker than ever in this game. If you want some adventure 
 in perfect graphics, less bug and stunning sounds, you should play Prince of Persia The Two Thrones, 
 probably the game of the year! I give 9.8 to this game, because it's one of the best I ever played. 
 I don't like to give 10, so I will put a point less in the value, but this game should really be 
 on top. 
  
  Check it! ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkest666
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 31, 2005 2:06 pm PT
Review:  Ok first of all, I want to say that I played this game on my friend's PS2, & I am a HUGE prince 
 of Persia fan (I've played the first OLDDDDDD games) & this game is GENIUS pure GENIUS. The speed-kills 
 are a new innovation (amongst others) in this game,& happens to be perfect, if you like stealth.
 
  If you've liked the previous games, you'll enjoy this game.
  I warn you though, the ending & closure to the prince's saga is quite disappointing,& that's the 
 ONLY downer I see in this game. I dont know, honestly what else to add. This game is great. For 
 any gamers, from begginers to hard-core gamers, like myself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nimni_orel
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 31, 2005 4:58 am PT
Review:  the prince of persia is the best game i have played. all the 2 editions before this were great 
 and i expect that the third installment or part to be more than great, extremely great. there are 
 new speed kill moves with the free form fighting system and new puzzles, weapons and powerful enemies.
 
  also prince of persia have a great story that i like it very much and i thought to produce a film 
 according to this game. finally i just can't wait to play this game that (in my opinion) have no 
 mistake. and i thank UBI's team for producing such a perfect game with perfect story. i expect 
 this game to win more than million player and alot of money, lol 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kash_1095
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 30, 2005 10:16 pm PT
Review:  Prince of Persia The Two Thrones is the Latest game in UBISOFT's Prince of Persia Series. Without 
 more chitchatter i'm gonna get on to the review.
  
  Gameplay
  The Gameplay in T2T is simillar to the other Prince games: The Prince can do many Acrobatic moves. 
 And with the Addition of the Speed Kill system, The game's gameplay just got a whole lot better
 
  
  Graphics
  As always in a Prince game the graphics are awsome. There is one difference here though, the character 
 models look ALOT worse than before Period.
  
  Sound
  Godsmack is gone and the return of Steriotypicaly Arabian Nights Music is BACK! Dammit finally
 
  
  Value
  The game has a good replay value. The only thing that would worry u would be, CRAP the twins are 
 coming
  
  Tilt
  The camera is good, Its just always in an awkward position as always, Atleast now there is a tutorial 
 for the camera
  
  My Score:
  8.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: angry_machine
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 30, 2005 6:32 am PT
Review:  This one of the best games i ve played this year...
  
  Superv environment design according to the progress of the game amazed me , the graphic and lighting 
 effects was attracting me while a passed through different levels...
  
  Sound was really good... but background music needed more variations...
  
  Story was one of 
 the best things from the starting of the game which kept me on the run and i felt the interest 
 to know what to be next.... but after "The royal kitchen" i felt it was falling down... the ending 
 was kinda ok for me... who knows time is really an ocean? ;)
  
  Puzzles! good job and thanks to the developers... it was awesome... cool movements for the prince 
 too... speed kill rox!... but the camera angles really freaked me sometime while jumping and fast 
 moving spaces... and bosses too!
  
  Weapons... while i got the prince's fathers sword in the well of the ancestors.. i waswhadda hell?" 
 1 hit kill?? there was a real need to get a little bit of more powerfull weaponse in the previous 
 levels such as the market place... cause there was not one weapon even close to the dead kings sword... sometimes 
 it was really crappy to fight the sand guards while they were so many in numbers...
  
  And the horse cart riding parts were fun and taff...
  
  boss fights were good because of the 
 variations....
  
  And the worst part i felt is the save game system of the game.... its ok to save in the starting 
 of the levels though... but the respawn locations really freaked me out... one fall made me to start 
 from the beggining of the level.. sometimes i was so pissed... it only made the gameplay duration 
 longer and made me feel like crap...
  
  Though a bad saving system.. i thank UBI ppl for this fr8 trilogy to bring out in a good end.... i 
 recomand ppl who has well patience..."plz play it"... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LONFR
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 29, 2005 2:47 am PT
Review:  The story of the Sands of Time trilogy began with the prince's army attacking and conquering the 
 capital of the Indian empire. In the midst of the battle, however, an evil vizier caused the release 
 of the sands of time, wreaking havoc over the city and the surrounding countryside. The prince 
 and an Indian princess named Farah battled together to defeat the vizier, bottled up the sands, 
 and restored the world to a normal state. The story continued in Warrior Within, where an embittered 
 prince set sail for the Island of Time, seeking sanctuary from an unstoppable time creature called 
 the Dahaka, who pursued him endlessly because of his part in unleashing the sands of time. There, 
 the prince battled not only the Dahaka, but also Kaileena, the Empress of Time. Fans of the first 
 game felt the series lost a lot of its soul in Warrior Within, as the suddenly cynical prince was 
 much more arrogant and less likable. 
  
  The Two Thrones begins with the prince returning to Babylon from the Island of Time with the mortal 
 Kaileena as his new lover (this part of the plot may be confusing to those who didn't see the alternate 
 ending of Warrior Within) . As they pull in to the harbor at Babylon, the duo finds the city under 
 siege. Their ship is wrecked by the invaders, and Kaileena is captured by the enemies. You quickly 
 find that the vizier is back and responsible for the uprising. He murders Kaileena and unleashes 
 the sands of time upon Babylon, and the prince must battle to regain his kingdom and avenge Kaileena's 
 death. 
  
  But it's not just sand creatures and other bad guys from the vizier's army that the prince must 
 fight. With the sands of time infecting his soul, the prince must also battle the whims of his 
 darker, more arrogant side. Throughout the game's long, 12- to 15-hour campaign, the prince will 
 morph back and forth between his normal self and the dark prince. He'll also have internal dialogues 
 between his split personalities, with the original actor from Sands of Time voicing the normal 
 prince, and a new voice actor representing the sneering, more sarcastic dark prince. Here, the 
 game almost becomes self-referential in addressing the popular criticism levied against the arrogant 
 prince from Warrior Within. The internal strife in the schizophrenic prince's mind forms a compelling 
 part of the storyline in The Two Thrones, especially because both the writing and voice acting 
 are pretty good
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tonyckq
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 28, 2005 9:05 am PT
Review:  Prince of Persia 3 must be the best in the Prince of Persia series. It offers a great deal of wonderful 
 gameplay and stunning graphics. The story of the game is also very good, it is well developed and 
 the plot is ok. That continues the last quest in Prince of Persia 2, and it catches up quite well 
 indeed. The best part of the game is not the story, but the gameplay. In this game you will play 
 as partly the normal prince, and partly the dark prince. The dark prince in the game will offer 
 you a chance to use some new and fun to use weapons, and it offers much more styles than before. 
 Hours of fun man, strongly recommend this game to any fans of Prince of Persia. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryan_rocks29
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 28, 2005 12:01 am PT
Review:  Prince of Persia: The Two Thrones is a great action/adventure agme that should not be missed by 
 anyone. If you have played and finsished the previous Prince of Persia games, you will love this 
 game and understand the story the whole way through, otherwise if you are a newcomer to the Prince 
 of Persia series, it may take a while to adapt to the story.
  
  Prince of Persia: The Two Thrones is a great game, it still has all the same great elements as 
 the previous Prince mof Persia games do and more added to it, such as newer combat skills and newer 
 traps and ways to avoid them.
  
  If you like the storyline of the previous Prince of Persia games, you will love the story of this 
 game and it has a great ending to the trilogy. The Two Thrones is kind of like The Sands of Time 
 and Warrior Within mixed togther, meaning they have kept the same lighter, mystical theme of The 
 Snds of Time and kept the same traps and combat skills as in Warrior Within.
  
  I highly recommend this game to anyone, and to get more of an experiance out of this game on PC, 
 get an anolgue controller. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: michael_delta
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 27, 2005 11:16 pm PT
Review:  When I saw a teaser in this game (like about a few months ago) I was so desperate for the game 
 to come out soon. And when it got to the shelves, I immediately bought it without question. But 
 as I have played the game, hmph... I was DISAPPOINTED. 
  
  First of all, the only 2 REALLY GOOD THINGS in this game are:
  
  1. Speed Kills
  2. More 
 BOSS fights!
  
  The game is pretty much straightforward and direct (kinda like POP: Sands of Time) . You get to 
 meet Farah! And we meet our best friends, the Vizier and the Dagger of Time. And we have another 
 introduction, welcome THE DARK PRINCE!!
  
  Now contrary to what the developers are saying, they mentioned that you can "Free-Roam" the area 
 which is certainly not so true once you play the game! The violence and gore are not there anymore 
 (no more beheading, half bodied enemies) etc etc. And they even removed the SUBTITLES, especially 
 when Kalieena is speaking in such a small-tone manner. 
  
  To those who really played POP: Warrior Within and haven't got the "alternate" ending. You might 
 find it confusing why the Prince and Kaileena are sailing together like lovebirds. It's because 
 you got all the 9 secret health bonuses and you recieve the Water Sword to kill the Dahaka and 
 it pretty much end from there. 
  
  For this game it's just too bad. I really expected LOTS more from this game, it's so darn easy! 
 Veteran players, I suggest you start from Hard mode to get an extra challenge! If you like Tenchu, 
 then all you have to do is to kill the enemy silently and believe me, you're going to use the "rewind" 
 button more than you'll ever use in the previous 2 games combined!
  
  I hope that they'll make another Prince of Persia story with more INNOVATION this time. For now, 
 buy it to find the very familar ending to the game. Another sad thing is that there are no special 
 bonuses to be found.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: arvikatarn
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 27, 2005 10:57 am PT
Review:  The story of "Sands of Time" series is very complicateed and difficult to understand but it is 
 not a problem for this game. The story is simpler (i cant speak english lol) than the last two 
 PoP: Sands of Time and PoP: Warrior Within. The gameplay is simple to learn but you get more tricks 
 all the time and you have to learn them. If you want to learn all the combos exactly as they are 
 written then go on. I just smash the buttons by a certain system that i built: Never press too 
 much of one button! I go o-o-i-i-o-o-i-i or o-i-o-i-o-i-o-i. You should get the point. It makes 
 the game so much simpler (hmm..) . OK now to the story. You are the Prince of Persia (Duh!!) and 
 you return home with the Empress of Time. When your hometown, Babylon reveals itself from the behind 
 of a huge cliff you see that buildings are on fire, spiky cannonballs flying in the high skies 
 and suddenly ------------ Kaboooooom ----------- Your ship is splitted into thousands of pieces. 
 You see that Kaileena (Empress of Time) is lost. You try to save her but you fall into the water 
 failing yourself and Kaileena. Soon you wake up, splinters hurting your body. You see Kaileena 
 taken by two weird looking humans, you yell :"Put her down!!" But they dont... To hear forth just 
 play the game. The sstory just grabs you in and you wont stop playing.
  The newest and coolest is probably the new "SpeedKill" function. It is very useful if you can use 
 it. I suggest you should master this quickly because it will help you in the later game a LOT.
 
  There is nothing else from me. Now if you dont have the game RUN for the shop.
  
  RUN............ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mgrant0235
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 29, 2005 8:08 am PT
Review:  This is the conclusion of the Sands of Time series that we've all been waiting for. The game isn't 
 perfect, but it succeeds, for the most part. 
  
  The story starts off where Warrior Within left off. The prince returns to Babylon after his encounter 
 with the Island of Time. The prince was able to change his fate, kill the Dahaka, and save Kaileena, 
 the Empress of Time, from certain death. (You had to get the special ending to save the Empress.) 
 Things seemed like they were finally alright for the over-burdened hero. But things become as grim 
 as ever. The Prince comes to Babylon in siege. His ship is destroyed and Kaileena is captured. 
 
  
  You come to find out that an old foe, you once faced, never met his demise, because you had altered 
 the past. Things get worse. Kaileena is killed, thus releasing the Sands, and the Prince has become 
 tainted by them. The Sands create another personality living within the Prince and start to take 
 over him. The Prince must fight to reclaim his kingdom, defeat his alter ego, save his people, 
 and help his lost love, Farah. 
  
  The Sands of Times, at its release, wasn't the best looking game out, but it had some really nice 
 effects that gave it style. However, a couple of years have passed and the graphics haven't changed 
 much, and theyre really starting to show their age. Characters are kind of blocky and have some 
 very muddy looking textures. The backgrounds still look alright, and the excessive use of bloom 
 effects doesn't hurt anything, either. If another sequel is to be released, the current engine 
 being used is going to have to be updated. 
  
  The inclusion of the alter ego for the Prince is a nice touch. For one thing, like stated in the 
 Gamespot review, the Prince and Dark Prince kind of play off the criticism received for Warrior 
 Within. The Prince, in the original game, was sympathetic, if not a little naive, and had a very 
 pleasant personality. However, in Warrior Within, the Prince had turned into an angry, arrogant, 
 and almost crazed person from desperation. The games premise plays off this and shows an internal 
 struggle with his two sides. 
  
  The game plays almost identically to Warrior Within. The free-form fighting system and time powers 
 are still intact. There are also some new additions. The speed kill system is really fun. This 
 allows you to swiftly kill your opponents through a timed mini game. Through out parts of the game, 
 you turn into the Dark Prince. He fights with a chained weapon. You must be aggressive in combat 
 with the Dark Prince because his health slowly dwindles, like the Sand Wraith. You must constantly 
 feed, but your sand tanks dont refill on their own, unlike the Sand Wraith. This make some moments 
 very intense. He does lay waste to enemies efficiently and with easy with his chain. The chain 
 allows him to hit many bad guys at once 
  
  Another criticism Warrior Within received was about the music. Well, the Godsmack and metal music 
 have been replaced with the Persian sound, again. The voice acting is good for the most part. The 
 original actor for the Prince is back, as well. 
  
  The Two Thrones is an excellent title and an excellent end to the trilogy. Fans of this series 
 should pick this up to see the conclusion. I was pleased. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Charbo00
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 26, 2005 12:43 am PT
Review:  Well i got this game for christmas and had a chance to play it today, and i think its the best 
 Prince of Persia yet! The first Prince of Persia was pretty much pure platforming and the combat 
 sucked in my opinion since there was pretty much only a few attacks to do. Warrior Within improved 
 the combat while still being fun but to me didnt have enough puzzles and things to do. The Two 
 Thrones is the best of both worlds and then some. It has lots of puzzles and platforming things 
 but retains Warrior Withins good weapon and combo system. A nice addition in this Prince of Persia 
 is the fact that you can play as both the prince, and the dark prince who instead of being able 
 to pick up secondary weapons, has a razor whip. So far i have only been the dark prince 3 times 
 but it adds alot to the game to me because there are a whole new set of combos he can do. If you 
 liked any of the other Prince of Persia games, i think you will probly like this one. And if you 
 are new to the series, this is still a great game to play first and then go back to the others. 
 One other thing is they havent upgraded the graphics since Sands of Time, so if you can run that, 
 you can run this. Even though they havent updated it, it is still a nice looking game although 
 if you are looking for killer graphics you might be dissappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: faam
Rating: 6.7
Date: Dec 25, 2005 9:16 am PT
Review:  i think it's the same thing of the others two games, but with better graphics... 
  the same puzzles, the same thing (you walk and jump and fight) ....
  it's not innovetor at all, 
 i think it's the same thing but with new enviroments, it's getting bored now... 
  
  i have to say that i haven't play it yet but i have read a lot of reviews and i see it like the 
 same of the other two, i have played te other 2 games and i find them the same thing... it's always 
 the same, jump, and fight, and some puzzles ...
  
  i have nothing more to say to it... 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SwetSSSSahu
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 25, 2005 1:51 am PT
Review:  It is a fantastic conclusion tho the Sands Of Time Trilogy. Every aspect from the previous titles 
 has been taken has been polished here. Thankfully the Prince isnt as dark in Warrior Within and 
 the Arabic touch in music is back. 
  I expected this title to have a very long game play but I thought it was shorter than Sands Of 
 Time. The graphics are also the same as that of Warrior Within, nothing much changed. But, despite 
 one or two drawbacks, its still worthy of the POP franchise. The whole UBISOFT team has done a 
 fantastic job and I specially enjoyed the ending, on how it leads to Sands Of Time. The POP series 
 has one of the best story line ever and if you have played the other two titles then dont miss 
 out on this. I played it on PC with a keyboard and mouse, I had no camera angle problems at all. 
 So I recommend each and every player to go and play the entire POP: Sands Of Time trilogy as it 
 is a MASTERPIECE. Thank You Ubisoft. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danmotan
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 28, 2007 3:52 am PT
Review:  This game is no more just something that you know everything at the end it comes up just in at 
 the right time in the story or in the gameplay, and it has free form fighting whith which you can 
 not!!! get bored in a fight, you can just be stupid and not realize a swich or a lever that will 
 change everything and pass to the next level. The new stealh ability is like a chalange to your 
 paicente and your eyes. Something very new is the list of the special moves which is Huge but it 
 is worth to look in it for an hour and experiment them. This game is perfect all i want to see is 
 how it ends does it make room for pop 4? I hope so. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maknathol
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 24, 2005 7:22 am PT
Review:  All right, prince of persia the two thrones outdones the previous prince of persia games in many 
 aspects. In this game, you got an improved fighting system found in "warrior within" and the more 
 likeable prince from the 1st "sands of time" is back. In this title the adventure seems to leep 
 to new dimensions, as you'll have at youre disposable new tricks and acrobatic movements, a very 
 cool speed-kill system (like the one found in god Of War when fighting bosses) but this one lets 
 you use the speed-kill function whenever a soldier hasnt noticed you, and you can even perform 
 speed-kill combos as the prince jumps from one monster to an other undetected in one sequence, 
 sounds cool doesnt it, well the fun doesnt end here the prince in this sequel seems to suffer from 
 a split personnality sindrome so from time to time the prince will acctually transfrom, he'll be 
 more powerfull, he'll have a chain attached to his arm ( also like the one found in god Of War) 
 that is very usefull when surrounded by enemies, but in this transformation the prince will continualisly 
 drain health and you recover it by getting sand. So he'll be more powerfull and have a chain but 
 you'll also constantly losing heatlh so theres an added tactic. The games length didnt really bother 
 as it took me almost 13 or 15 hours to finish the game, wich is alright.
  
  Now to the things that i didnt like in the game: if you already played "warrior within" and was 
 pleased by the diverse main swords the hero will obtain, you can forget about something called 
 main "sword", as the hero will fight his way using the dagger of time, AND ONLY THE DAGGER OF TIME, 
 you can pick up swords from fallen enemies like in "warrior within" but these are only temporary 
 as they have a damage limit.
  Also the game is in some desperate need of polishing i'm talking about many graphical and sound 
 glitches. The game could have used another couple of months for some final polishing.
  Other then that. prince of persia the two thrones is an immersive game, with alot of hidden plots 
 and surprises so if you like video games, you should at least try it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SadExchange
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 27, 2005 10:03 pm PT
Review:  The Sands of Time trilogy has finally come to its conclusion. Being the third Prince of Persia 
 game by Ubisoft in three years, it brought itself to store shelves on December 6th of 2005. Fans 
 of the series were able to enjoy the ending of this wonderful ride with the same great action and 
 combat from the previous two games, but it just seemed that this game was the best overall because 
 of its split between puzzle solving and combat being equally split down the middle. The developers 
 took the best aspects of the previous games and really exposed them to the player in this title 
 creating the final finale in the great story that has progressed through the trilogy. From their 
 moves, the developers have stated that theyre not finish with the Prince of Persia and I cant 
 think of a better way to end a trilogy than to make it the best game yet.
  
  Those of you who start up The Two Thrones for the first time and see the intro movie may be a little 
 bit confused because of how the game starts. The actual intro of this game comes right after the 
 special ending of the second game, Warrior Within. So, if you only saw one of the endings in Warrior 
 Within and youre confused from the beginning, chances are you didnt have the special ending. 
 But theres no need to worry because the story meshes itself out by the end and you dont feel 
 so left in the dark. The story that you progress through in the Two Thrones goes on as if the first 
 game, Sands of Time, never happened. With the prince having mercy on Kaileena and not killing her, 
 the sands of time from the first game were never created, meaning that your actions from the first 
 game never happened and you never met Farah who happens to make an appearance in The Two Thrones. 
 The whole storyline is put well together and does move the game along quite nicely and by the end, 
 youll feel conclusion to the trilogy, mainly because of there only being one ending.
  
  The graphics in The Two Thrones have been improved since Warrior Within slightly and look fairly 
 decent, considering that its going off the same graphic engine since the first game in the trilogy. 
 The princes appearance has changed since Warrior Within which is many fans of the series wanted 
 and the environments look great as well. With every game in the series, all of the different environments 
 and level design was superb. Many fans were disappointed with the smaller level design in Warrior 
 Within and with the lack of puzzles, but The Two Thrones brings back both of those aspects with 
 steam. Although, if youre a fan of the trilogy since it started with Sands of Time, the puzzles 
 in The Two Thrones wont be that difficult to you. There are still hidden power-ups like the previous 
 installments, but unlike Warrior Within, there re special swords that youre able to find in The 
 Two Thrones. The amount of combat moves in this latest released has slightly increased since last 
 year and fans of the newly created combat fighting style from Warrior Within will be extremely 
 happy with the amount of moves in this new game. Differently than before, youre able to sneak 
 up on enemies and do Speed Kills, which involves pressing the mouse button at the right time 
 to complete these easy kills. Speed Kills will also be used on the bosses of this game which were 
 also given great care with graphics and life. From an immense giant to a flying sand-like god, 
 youll be thrust into different situations where you need to make quick, but smart decisions to 
 proceed through the game. 
  
  The sound, much like the two previous installments is done quite well. With voice acting being 
 fairly decent in the game. Those who pre-ordered the game were treated with a soundtrack of all 
 the music involved and it is somewhat different than Warrior Within which based its main theme 
 song off of a Godsmack tune. Thats not to say that the music is has a totally soft edge to it. 
 I would just say that it suits the game nicely. With having the Persian flare to most of the 
 songs on the soundtrack, while playing through the different levels in The Two Thrones, youll 
 easily notice how the music and sound of the game add that much more atmosphere to the overall 
 title.
  
  One new aspect for the series is the role of the Dark Prince. At different times throughout the 
 game, youll be changed into what is known as the Dark Prince which happens to be a master of killing 
 enemies. Unlike the prince who must take several jabs at his enemies to kill them, the Dark Prince 
 uses what is known as his Daggertail to completely massacre his foes, but that because he needs 
 to. The Dark Prince is derived from the Sands of Time and lives off the sands of the enemies around 
 him while his healthy slowly deteriorates. At first, this slow loss of health may put some added 
 pressure on you, but after you begin to learn the fighting style of the Dark Prince, youll have 
 no worries traversing through the many buildings of Babylon. Along the same lines as the Prince, 
 the Dark Prince is able to do speed kills as when with repeatedly taping a button to finish off 
 his enemies. The Prince himself follows more of the original style of himself when he was first 
 in Sands of Time, while the Dark Prince comes from the character derived from Warrior Within who 
 was definitely filled with more blood lust. While many fans were disappointed with the darker tone 
 of the prince in Warrior Within, fans of the series will not feel the same way about the Dark Prince 
 this time around.
  
  Like the previous two games, there isnt a multiplayer component to this game, but there doesnt 
 need to be either. Although there are not multiple endings to persuade you to go through the game 
 multiple times, The Two Thrones should just entice you because of its rich level design and the 
 perfect combat style of fighting thats been given to the prince over the past three games. Ubisoft, 
 although not making anything innovative or groundbreaking, give the player a great experience not 
 only from the beginning of The Two Thrones to the end, but from the beginning of the Sands of Time 
 trilogy to the end. 
  
  Overall, any fan of the two previous game should play this game and anyone just looking into the 
 Prince of Persia Trilogy should just pick up the whole trilogy because itll become more and more 
 fun as you progress through the whole storyline of the trilogy. With having the game last around 
 twelve hours through the first play through, you can tell Ubisoft spent a little bit of time making 
 a great game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zweihanderhero
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 23, 2005 9:07 am PT
Review:  Stunningly beautiful, thats the first thought that came to my mind after playing the first few 
 areas of The Two Thrones (TTT) . Amazingly fluid, those came right after I dispatched the first 
 few baddies that came at me. Surprisingly melodic, after hearing the lush soundtrack thats all 
 I can think of to describe it. 
  
  Needless to say, TTT is a worthy conclusion to the Sands of Time trilogy. You know it, I know, 
 your momma knows itthe Prince of Persia franchise can do no wrong. For those of you who never 
 played the original (The Sands of Time) or its sequel (The Warrior Within) , shame on you. Other 
 than being a shining of example of modern day platforming done extremely right, they be great games 
 to show off your systems graphics (be it Xbox, PS2, GC or PC) . 
  
  TTT requires that you know a bit of the backstory for the trilogy so here it is. In Sands of Time, 
 the Prince (yes, we never do find out his name) unknowingly removes an ancient artifact called 
 the Dagger of Time from a hidden chamber deep underneath the palace. An evil wizard in the newly 
 conquered kingdom of the Prince unleashed the Sands of Time on the Princes army and his father, 
 turning them into monsters. The Prince and Farah, a princess from the conquered kingdom, teamed 
 up and the whole incident was ended when the Prince finally sealed back the Sands of Time and reversing 
 time so the whole thing never happened.
  
  The Prince paid a heavy price for doing that though. By changing the events using the powers of 
 time, the Prince had defied the plans of Fate itself, which had the Prince dying due to the Sands 
 of Time. Thus, Fate sent forth a killer, The Dahaka which was to kill the Prince to correct the 
 timeline. Hoping to prevent his death, the Prince journeyed to the Island of Time, hoping to journey 
 back in time to prevent the Sands of Time being created in the first place thus saving himor so 
 he thinks. On the island, he meets Kaileena, who befriends him and guides him. He travels back 
 in time to the time of the creation of the Sands of Time, hoping to kill the Empress who created 
 the sands. The Prince slayed the Empress, who was Kaileena all along, and returned back to the 
 present only to find that it was still in shambles and that the Dahaka was still intent on killing 
 him. The Prince journeyed a final time back in time yet again to stop himself from killing Kaileena 
 but ends up finding a powerful sword able to beat the Dahaka itself. He uses it to beat the Dahaka 
 and rewrites his destiny, convincing Kaileena to give up her island and return to Babylon with 
 him. Thats where TTT starts off
  
  Without spoiling things, lets just say by reversing time so that the events of the first game never 
 happened, the Prince created his greatest enemy yet. Also, it is his new enemy that gave the Prince 
 his alter ego, the Dark Prince.
  
  TTT features the biggest and most detailed environments of the trilogy. Everything is exquisitely 
 detailed and you can even see the individual patterns of vases if you go near them. Every area 
 has a unique look going for it, whether it be the destroyed buildings of the outer city or the 
 grand magnificence that is the palace of the Prince. The only thing thats not up to the quality 
 is the Princes model. While he is detailed enough (I love his look with the daggertail imbedded 
 in his arm) , the polygons that make up his model seems lacking, especially around his arms. They 
 look like rectangular blocks when seem up close in some of the cutscenes.
  
  Playing as the Prince is still as enjoyable as always. Even with a keyboard and mouse setup, I 
 found that within an hour I was playing the game as naturally as I was if I was using a gamepad. 
 While I wouldnt recommend it if you do have a gamepad, those of you hanging on the fence worrying 
 about the control issue should worry no more. While the Princes offensive arsenal is mostly acrobatics, 
 playing as the Dark Prince is the opposite. His moves are pure, unchecked viciousness. Being the 
 evil side of the Prince shows, with his moves not only inflicting tons of damage but also hitting 
 multiple opponents at once while making them suffer as much.
  
  The Daggertail isnt only a weapon. It can also be used to solve environmental puzzles as the Dark 
 Prince. Radically different from the Prince, the Dark Prince is all about speed and power. You 
 need to kill your enemies as fast as possible and move on. Like the Sand Wraith from The Warrior 
 Within, the Dark Prince loses health constantly. UNLIKE the Sand Wraith though, the Dark Prince 
 doesnt have unlimited use of the sand powers (bummer!) . It can be frustrating having to complete 
 the same puzzles over and over again with the Dark Prince because you keep making mistakes as youre 
 under constant threat of dying.
  
  The soundtrack for the game matches the mood of it perfectly. From the foreboding tunes of the 
 underground areas to catchy Arabic beats as you traverse Babylons streets, it fits the mood of 
 the game. Sad though that you wont notice it for the most part as your brain is constantly kept 
 on it toes.
  
  Environmental puzzles are a big part of the Prince of Persia gameplay and they return in a big 
 part in TTT. In fact, I feel that TTT is probably the least combat heavy of the trilogy, unlike 
 The Warrior Within. Yes, combat is still a main factor, but the majority of the game is firmly 
 skewered towards platform jumping puzzles. Its only when you play as the Dark Prince that combat 
 takes priority due to the fact that you need combat to stay alive.
  
  I have never been so happy to be jumping around and shimmying around ledges all my life. The complex 
 puzzles make solving even the most simplest of them an achievement (not to mention you look damn 
 cool if you can pull it off without hesitation) . The solutions are always cleverly concealed and 
 requires a bit of thinking without boring you or making it obscenely hard. Id go even so far to 
 say that its what I love most in the gamenext to the awesome combat of course.
  
  Ah yes, the combat. The Prince of Persia series has only of the smoothest combat system in a modern 
 videogame ever. Being able to run up walls only to backflip off an enemy, stab him in the back 
 and then sweep his friend off his feet in just a matter of moves is still the coolest thing to 
 watch AND do. A new addition is the Stealth Kill. If youre able to sneak up to an enemy, the Prince 
 can do a stealth kill. Its a fun, not to mention very satisfying, minigame in which you need to 
 time your button presses to kill your enemy without danger to the Prince. Some of the kills are 
 the coolest ever, Jacky Chan would be proud!
  
  Its a fitting end to the Prince of Persia trilogy. Somehow though, Im not so certain this is 
 the end of us seeing the lovable Prince. Look at OnimushaTHAT was supposed to be a trilogy and 
 pretty soon well gonna have the fourth installment in our hands
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SlayerOZ
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 22, 2005 4:18 pm PT
Review:  My Friend loved Prince of Persia games. He wanted me to play the first one. I tried the demo. WOW! 
 I love it! Then the second one came out. It has NICE GRAPHICS and COOL MOVES!!! Now the THIRD one 
 came out! What a game! Speed kill, haste, sandstorm, You name it! The graphics are.... WHOA...... 
 Excellent! I didnt buy the first and second one. BUT I BOUGHT THE THIRD ONE!! Wait until you try 
 it! Id say this is the BEST one of all! Think of the title! ONE WARRIOR, TWO SOULS. WOW imagine 
 that. Wait until you try it! It might have the BEST moves you every seen. This is only my comment, 
 but i dunno yours! BUT I THINK IT IS PERFECT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: knowledgewizard
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 22, 2005 7:52 am PT
Review:  Following critical acclaim and success from The Sands of Time and Warrior Within, The Two Thrones 
 provides a very worthy conclusion of the series. After escaping the Island of Time, changing your 
 fate and Kaileena's, you return to Babylon only to find it invaded by the vizier who you actually 
 killed in The Sands of Time. However, changing the Prince's fate meant changing everyone elses' 
 fate as well. In The Two Thrones, you have been tainted by the sands caused by Kaileena's death 
 giving rise to the Prince's alter ego, his darker side - The Dark Prince.
  
  Starting of with gameplay, the game plays very similarly to Warrior Within. Even though this may 
 be your first try at Prince of Persia, the in-game tutorials provide a very good guide to new players. 
 Retaining all of Warrior Within's combat style, the game's combat is still flawless and stylish 
 as you unleash a myriad of deadly combos on your enemies; both sand and non-sand. The addition 
 of Speed Kills is something unique and undeniably fun ... Fun enough for you to rewind time just 
 to do it again. Speed Kills work like a reflex test game you probably have played before, only 
 now a flashing dagger is your cue to kill. These kills are carried out in style and in ultimate 
 brutish matter at the same time. Since this game revolves around the Sands of Time, you'd obviously 
 have the power to control time again, utilising Rewinds, Slow Time and Sand Storms to get the upperhand 
 in combat. Boss fights are more fun in The Two Thrones as compared to its predecessors as you have 
 to find a tactic to kill them rather than slashing them mindlessly. Though this may seem a little 
 irritating testing out different tactics to kill a boss most effectively, it is fun and provides 
 a challenge. The inclusion of the Dark Prince is most interesting and turns out to be very fun 
 to play with. The Dark Prince relies on brute force rather than the Prince's fast and evade oriented 
 combat ... breathing new life into Prince of Persia's already fantastic combat system. The Dark 
 Prince's primary weapon, the Daggertail is extremely deadly and incredibly fun to use. The Dark 
 Prince can carry out completely different combat moves as from the Princes utilising the mid-ranged 
 effectiveness of the Daggertail to quickly massacre several enemies simultaneously. Though the 
 Dark Prince may seem invincible, he actually has a weakness - draining of his life bit by bit. 
 But this should be the least of your worries as collection of sands quickly restore the Dark Prince's 
 health to its fullest. Probably only the puzzles would be a time to think a little harder as the 
 Dark Prince, nonetheless it still provides a different challenge based on time. The chariot races 
 in The Two Thrones probably would give gamers a mixed feeling. Gamers might like the challenge 
 of speed in these sequences or hate the difficulty of it. Stocking up on sands is most essential 
 in these races to rewind yourself out of a crash. Finally, Prince of Persia wouldn't be Prince 
 of Persia without its very well implemented puzzles into Babylon's environment.
  
  Moving on to graphics, The Two Thrones don't show a significant difference from Warrior Within. 
 Though an old graphics engine, the graphics are still great with fantastic textures, light blooms 
 and the fluid animation of the Prince. Particle effects and light bloom are probably The Two Thrones 
 winning points which are very well implemented throughout the game giving a sense of realism and 
 hiding some graphical imperfections. The full motion videos are still spectecular and amazing to 
 watch with its fantastic direction and capturing the major events of the game.
  
  Returning to the Prince of Persia's former glory, it has had a vast improvement in soundtrack terms. 
 Godsmack's awful hard rock soundtrack has been smacked away for the return of true Persian style 
 music that fits the game's atmosphere perfectly. Sound is still accurate and fantastic as it has 
 always been in the Sands of Time trilogy. The sound glitches of Warrior Within has also been solved 
 in The Two Thrones so that the overall experienced won't be marred by unsynchronised sound. Voice 
 casting in The Two Thrones is fantastic as Yuri Lowenthal lends his voice again as the Prince and 
 a new voice actor for the Dark Prince to provide sarcastic comments and the inner arguments between 
 the Prince and his darker self. Some people might have missed Monica Belluci's voice as Kaileena 
 in The Two Thrones but the new voice actress still does a fantastic portrayal as the enigmatic 
 Empress of Time.
  
  All in all, Prince of Persia: The Two Thrones is a fantastic game that both fans and non-fans of 
 the series will enjoy with its unique gameplay style and action. This game will keep players wanting 
 for more of the Prince of Persia. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hetlar
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 22, 2005 7:12 am PT
Review:  This is Most beautiful powerful game that takes you to another word for action and fantasy from 
 the three parts (prince of persia sands of time,& warrior within,& two thrones 
 
  When writing your review, remember to keep the language clean. Reviews must be 100 words minimum. 
 We encourage you to try to get your review right the first time -- you may choose to edit it later 
 on, but by doing so, you will lose any positive feedback associated with the review. We encourage 
 you to write your review in a word processor or text editor, save it to your local disk, then copy 
 and paste it into the posting box below. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LordOfDark19
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 22, 2005 5:02 am PT
Review:  The Prince of Persia The 2 Thrones is great game with great story.
  The prince returns to babylon from the island of time with Kaylina to reclaim his throne. As soon 
 as he arrives he find his city hunted by sand creatures and under assault. The sand creatures capture 
 Kaylina before he realized and then the game begins in the coast at the begining of the city. Now 
 he need to find Kaylina and rescue her. At the same time that he is on the way to reclaim his throne 
 the other side of the prince unleashes, gifted by the sands of time and fighting his way to the 
 palace.
  The gameplay is great and not making you bored, there is a lot of action but there is places with 
 needing in the prince acrobatics. There is a few puzzels in the game and few bosses. You can kill 
 your enemy in many ways such as cutting their heads or throwing them to their doom. The graphics 
 are good and the environments are amazing but there is in need to improve the overall graphics. 
 The sounds are good too thats it. Theres a few new things that improved the game and maded some 
 new ways to move through the way, the biggest thing that is new is the carriage riding. I think 
 that ubisoft could do a little better but this game is worth playing, so I recommend that all the 
 gamers that love the POP and the fans of the genre will play this game!
  
  Reviewer: LordOfDarkness 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 3Dsoldier
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 21, 2005 12:40 pm PT
Review:  Great as the other 2 before, love the history... when turned in dark prince you can do some new 
 stuff using its whip and it looks cool =) the BAD thing i found about this game was that the controls 
 in game play sometimes get messed up happened to me and a most irritating thing the camera lock 
 i now OFFICIALLY HATE IT plz don't do that ! the full motion videos in game continue to be AWESOME... 
 by the time im writing this review i haven't finished the game im fighting the vizier =P so i didn't 
 see the video bonus yet but if its as good as the pop2 the warrior within its five stars =) but 
 i doubt it =P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: elemo
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 21, 2005 9:53 am PT
Review:  The Dark Prince is just what the 3rd part needed ... If it wasn't for him, there wouldn't be a 
 3rd part.
  
  I am not compalining about the real one but the Dark Prince Rocks.
  
  They should make a game for the Dark Prince only.
  
  Just look at the weapon, who could believe 
 that it can be used in all that moves.
  
  A funny thing I watched in one of the trailers .. The Dark Prince ran into no where and jumped 
 with nothing to hang on .. and he throwed his weapon as a rope and cauught something to hang on 
 .. THAT NEVER THOUGHT TO C IN ANY GAME EVER. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Asen_khoftars
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 21, 2005 6:26 am PT
Review:  e   
 eeeeeeeeeeee eee ee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eee eeeee eeeeeeeeee 
 e eeeeee eeeeeeee
  e   
 eeeeeeeeeeee eee ee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eee eeeee eeeeeeeeee 
 e eeeeee eeeeeeeee   
 eeeeeeeeeeee eee ee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eee eeeee eeeeeeeeee 
 e eeeeee eeeeeeeee   
 eeeeeeeeeeee eee ee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eee eeeee eeeeeeeeee 
 e eeeeee eeeeeeeee   
 eeeeeeeeeeee eee ee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eee eeeee eeeeeeeeee 
 e eeeeee eeeeeeeee   
 eeeeeeeeeeee eee ee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eee eeeee eeeeeeeeee 
 e eeeeee eeeeeeeee   
 eeeeeeeeeeee eee ee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eee eeeee eeeeeeeeee 
 e eeeeee eeeeeeeee   
 eeeeeeeeeeee eee ee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eee eeeee eeeeeeeeee 
 e eeeeee eeeeeeeee   
 eeeeeeeeeeee eee ee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eee eeeee eeeeeeeeee 
 e eeeeee eeeeeeeee   
 eeeeeeeeeeee eee ee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eee eeeee eeeeeeeeee 
 e eeeeee eeeeeeeee   
 eeeeeeeeeeee eee ee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eee eeeee eeeeeeeeee 
 e eeeeee eeeeeeeee   
 eeeeeeeeeeee eee ee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eee eeeee eeeeeeeeee 
 e eeeeee eeeeeeeee   
 eeeeeeeeeeee eee ee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eee eeeee eeeeeeeeee 
 e eeeeee eeeeeeeee   
 eeeeeeeeeeee eee ee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eee eeeee eeeeeeeeee 
 e eeeeee eeeeeeeee   
 eeeeeeeeeeee eee ee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eee eeeee eeeeeeeeee 
 e eeeeee eeeeeeeee   
 eeeeeeeeeeee eee ee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eee eeeee eeeeeeeeee 
 e eeeeee eeeeeeeee   
 eeeeeeeeeeee eee ee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eee eeeee eeeeeeeeee 
 e eeeeee eeeeeeeee   
 eeeeeeeeeeee eee ee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eee eeeee eeeeeeeeee 
 e eeeeee eeeeeeeee   
 eeeeeeeeeeee eee ee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eee eeeee eeeeeeeeee 
 e eeeeee eeeeeeeee   
 eeeeeeeeeeee eee ee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eee eeeee eeeeeeeeee 
 e eeeeee eeeeeeeee   
 eeeeeeeeeeee eee ee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eee eeeee eeeeeeeeee 
 e eeeeee eeeeeeeee   
 eeeeeeeeeeee eee ee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eee eeeee eeeeeeeeee 
 e eeeeee eeeeeeeee   
 eeeeeeeeeeee eee ee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eee eeeee eeeeeeeeee 
 e eeeeee eeeeeeeee   
 eeeeeeeeeeee eee ee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eee eeeee eeeeeeeeee 
 e eeeeee eeeeeeeee   
 eeeeeeeeeeee eee ee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eee eeeee eeeeeeeeee 
 e eeeeee eeeeeeeee   
 eeeeeeeeeeee eee ee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eee eeeee eeeeeeeeee 
 e eeeeee eeeeeeeee   
 eeeeeeeeeeee eee ee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eee eeeee eeeeeeeeee 
 e eeeeee eeeeeeeee   
 eeeeeeeeeeee eee ee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eee eeeee eeeeeeeeee 
 e eeeeee eeeeeeeee   
 eeeeeeeeeeee eee ee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eee eeeee eeeeeeeeee 
 e eeeeee eeeeeeeee   
 eeeeeeeeeeee eee ee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eee eeeee eeeeeeeeee 
 e eeeeee eeeeeeeee   
 eeeeeeeeeeee eee ee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eee eeeee eeeeeeeeee 
 e eeeeee eeeeeeeee   
 eeeeeeeeeeee eee ee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eee eeeee eeeeeeeeee 
 e eeeeee eeeeeeeee   
 eeeeeeeeeeee eee ee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eee eeeee eeeeeeeeee 
 e eeeeee eeeeeeeee   
 eeeeeeeeeeee eee ee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eee eeeee eeeeeeeeee 
 e eeeeee eeeeeeeee   
 eeeeeeeeeeee eee ee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eee eeeee eeeeeeeeee 
 e eeeeee eeeeeeeee   
 eeeeeeeeeeee eee ee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eee eeeee eeeeeeeeee 
 e eeeeee eeeeeeeee   
 eeeeeeeeeeee eee ee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eee eeeee eeeeeeeeee 
 e eeeeee eeeeeeeee   
 eeeeeeeeeeee eee ee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eee eeeee eeeeeeeeee 
 e eeeeee eeeeeeeee   
 eeeeeeeeeeee eee ee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eee eeeee eeeeeeeeee 
 e eeeeee eeeeeeeee   
 eeeeeeeeeeee eee ee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eee eeeee eeeeeeeeee 
 e eeeeee eeeeeeeee   
 eeeeeeeeeeee eee ee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eee eeeee eeeeeeeeee 
 e eeeeee eeeeeeeee   
 eeeeeeeeeeee eee ee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eee eeeee eeeeeeeeee 
 e eeeeee eeeeeeeee   
 eeeeeeeeeeee eee ee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eee eeeee eeeeeeeeee 
 e eeeeee eeeeeeeee   
 eeeeeeeeeeee eee ee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eee eeeee eeeeeeeeee 
 e eeeeee eeeeeeeee   
 eeeeeeeeeeee eee ee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eee eeeee eeeeeeeeee 
 e eeeeee eeeeeeeee   
 eeeeeeeeeeee eee ee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eee eeeee eeeeeeeeee 
 e eeeeee eeeeeeeee   
 eeeeeeeeeeee eee ee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eee eeeee eeeeeeeeee 
 e eeeeee eeeeeeeee   
 eeeeeeeeeeee eee ee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eee eeeee eeeeeeeeee 
 e eeeeee eeeeeeeee   
 eeeeeeeeeeee eee ee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eee eeeee eeeeeeeeee 
 e eeeeee eeeeeeeee   
 eeeeeeeeeeee eee ee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eee eeeee eeeeeeeeee 
 e eeeeee eeeeeeeee   
 eeeeeeeeeeee eee ee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eee eeeee eeeeeeeeee 
 e eeeeee eeeeeeeee   
 eeeeeeeeeeee eee ee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eee eeeee eeeeeeeeee 
 e eeeeee eeeeeeeee   
 eeeeeeeeeeee eee ee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eee eeeee eeeeeeeeee 
 e eeeeee eeeeeeeee   
 eeeeeeeeeeee eee ee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eee eeeee eeeeeeeeee 
 e eeeeee eeeeeeeee   
 eeeeeeeeeeee eee ee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eee eeeee eeeeeeeeee 
 e eeeeee eeeeeeeee   
 eeeeeeeeeeee eee ee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eee eeeee eeeeeeeeee 
 e eeeeee eeeeeeeee   
 eeeeeeeeeeee eee ee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eee eeeee eeeeeeeeee 
 e eeeeee eeeeeeeee   
 eeeeeeeeeeee eee ee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eee eeeee eeeeeeeeee 
 e eeeeee eeeeeeeee   
 eeeeeeeeeeee eee ee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eee eeeee eeeeeeeeee 
 e eeeeee eeeeeeeee   
 eeeeeeeeeeee eee ee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eee eeeee eeeeeeeeee 
 e eeeeee eeeeeeeee   
 eeeeeeeeeeee eee ee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eee eeeee eeeeeeeeee 
 e eeeeee eeeeeeeee   
 eeeeeeeeeeee eee ee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eee eeeee eeeeeeeeee 
 e eeeeee eeeeeeeee   
 eeeeeeeeeeee eee ee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eee eeeee eeeeeeeeee 
 e eeeeee eeeeeeeee   
 eeeeeeeeeeee eee ee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eee eeeee eeeeeeeeee 
 e eeeeee eeeeeeeee   
 eeeeeeeeeeee eee ee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eee eeeee eeeeeeeeee 
 e eeeeee eeeeeeeee   
 eeeeeeeeeeee eee ee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eee eeeee eeeeeeeeee 
 e eeeeee eeeeeeeee   
 eeeeeeeeeeee eee ee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eee eeeee eeeeeeeeee 
 e eeeeee eeeeeeeee   
 eeeeeeeeeeee eee ee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eee eeeee eeeeeeeeee 
 e eeeeee eeeeeeeee   
 eeeeeeeeeeee eee ee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eee eeeee eeeeeeeeee 
 e eeeeee eeeeeeeee   
 eeeeeeeeeeee eee ee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eee eeeee eeeeeeeeee 
 e eeeeee eeeeeeeee   
 eeeeeeeeeeee eee ee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eee eeeee eeeeeeeeee 
 e eeeeee eeeeeeeee   
 eeeeeeeeeeee eee ee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eee eeeee eeeeeeeeee 
 e eeeeee eeeeeeeee   
 eeeeeeeeeeee eee ee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eee eeeee eeeeeeeeee 
 e eeeeee eeeeeeeee   
 eeeeeeeeeeee eee ee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eee eeeee eeeeeeeeee 
 e eeeeee eeeeeeeee   
 eeeeeeeeeeee eee ee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eee eeeee eeeeeeeeee 
 e eeeeee eeeeeeeee   
 eeeeeeeeeeee eee ee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eee eeeee eeeeeeeeee 
 e eeeeee eeeeeeeee   
 eeeeeeeeeeee eee ee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eee eeeee eeeeeeeeee 
 e eeeeee eeeeeeeee   
 eeeeeeeeeeee eee ee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eee eeeee eeeeeeeeee 
 e eeeeee eeeeeeeee   
 eeeeeeeeeeee eee ee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eee eeeee eeeeeeeeee 
 e eeeeee eeeeeeeee   
 eeeeeeeeeeee eee ee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eee eeeee eeeeeeeeee 
 e eeeeee eeeeeeeee   
 eeeeeeeeeeee eee ee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eee eeeee eeeeeeeeee 
 e eeeeee eeeeeeeee   
 eeeeeeeeeeee eee ee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eee eeeee eeeeeeeeee 
 e eeeeee eeeeeeeee   
 eeeeeeeeeeee eee ee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eee eeeee eeeeeeeeee 
 e eeeeee eeeeeeeee   
 eeeeeeeeeeee eee ee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eee eeeee eeeeeeeeee 
 e eeeeee eeeeeeeee   
 eeeeeeeeeeee eee ee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eee eeeee eeeeeeeeee 
 e eeeeee eeeeeeeee   
 eeeeeeeeeeee eee ee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eee eeeee eeeeeeeeee 
 e eeeeee eeeeeeeee   
 eeeeeeeeeeee eee ee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eee eeeee eeeeeeeeee 
 e eeeeee eeeeeeeee   
 eeeeeeeeeeee eee ee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eee eeeee eeeeeeeeee 
 e eeeeee eeeeeeeee   
 eeeeeeeeeeee eee ee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eee eeeee eeeeeeeeee 
 e eeeeee eeeeeeeee   
 eeeeeeeeeeee eee ee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eee eeeee eeeeeeeeee 
 e eeeeee eeeeeeee 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Galamode
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 20, 2005 8:26 pm PT
Review:  Prince of Persia has always been a great set of games for me. When i was a little kid POP was like 
 the only game i ever played and it means alot to me. The latest Prince of Persia has a great story-line 
 and is very enjoyable. Playing as the Dark prince was really a thrill and using new weapons was 
 really cool. This is the only POP game this is rated M and i was suprised to see there was nudit 
 and blood in the game. But it was very fun and hard like all of the games. The game was pretty 
 long, adn the gameplay was hard at first but from playin the other games i quikcly mastered it. 
 The graphics are amazing and the game sounds orgasmic. It is a great game and i advise you buy 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrhs84
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 20, 2005 4:32 pm PT
Review:  Prince of Persia 3 is the one of my faverit games.
  
  its an imprassive story, good Moves when you have a PC controller
  and all the suspense, the game 
 make you live the story. like you are the one saveing your country from erasing. and what is make 
 it beautiful is the love story from Sands of time its back in this part which is good thing becouse 
 you gonna play more to see what is gonna hapend.
  i play this game since 1993 on my pc (one of its parts i dont think that all pepole rember it) 
 and i play all parts and i see it such a Amzing game.
  
  so......
  
  its Good Story.
  Good Moves whan you had a controller for your pc.
  good graphic
  good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: everlars
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 20, 2005 12:05 pm PT
Review:  Uno de los mejores juegos en su genero igual que la trilogia, es un juego de pensar y aventuras, 
 excelentes graficas lo recomiendo mucho. pienso que es el mejor de la trilogia al menos para mi, 
 ya que tiene diferentes movimientos y excelentes graficas. asd asd asd asd asd asd asd asd asd 
 asd asd asd asd asd asd asd asd asd asd asd asd asd as das da sd asd asd as das d asd asd as d 
 asd asd as da sd asd as da sd asd as da sd asd as das da sd asd as da sd asd asd as da sd asd asd 
 as da sd asd asd 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vamp_inno
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 20, 2005 1:17 am PT
Review:  Prince of Persia is must buy game dude............... all of you should buy............. coz it 
 has great game play and a great  graphics  
 dude.................... this the way to end the story of any game.............. it is one the best 
 game of the year............ it was worth waiting for game to be release................. the dark 
 prince was awesome.... i loved playing with the dark prince coz it has got style.............. The 
 flow of the story was truely great.... considering the aspects of the SANDS OF TIMe by brining FARAH... and 
 warrior within by kaileena... the game follows a certain path and the writer know what he was presenting 
 to the players... simply awesome... only thing which i found that as lacking was the lack of sand 
 powers.... (ONLY 3) ... and the shorter game play time: (.... The game should've been long enough...... UBISOFT 
 ROCKS..... i wish if they'll be palnning to make the POP4... POP rocks!!!!!!! 
  .................. overall the is the best all prince of persia series........ and this game will 
 be the best game of the year...... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hitmanismyname
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 19, 2005 9:39 pm PT
Review:  what's your favorite game this is yours let's own and buy it!!!!!!  
 cool cool cool cool occo cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool 
 cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool 
 cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool 
 cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool 
 cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cervantes_Soul
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 19, 2005 3:57 pm PT
Review:  Yes, I know there are probably enough POP fans to fill Singapore. If you've never played a PoP 
 game, you might want to think twice about picking this game up.
  
  I am not what you would call the biggest PoP fan in the world. Don't get me wrong, this game is 
 amazing, but the formula is tried and true. In other words, you've seen this game before. This 
 game does offer quite a few new things, such as Chariot Racing and the Dark Prince, but these don't 
 make this game feel much newer.
  
  The graphics are indeed beautiful, but they do all look the same through-out the game. The combat 
 animations flow very smoothly and look realistic.
  
  One thing that will detract new players is the difficulty. Now, I'm no gaming pro, but if a noobie 
 comes into this game without experience in PoP's combat system, they will get owned pretty quickly.
 
  
  The sound is very nicely done and helps add to the game, especially the return of the orchestral 
 soundtrack. Not much to complain about here.
  
  I managed to beat this game in a few sitdowns when I rented. I'm sure there will be people that 
 play this game over and over just for the hell of it. But for the rest of us, there are better 
 games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Smuggler217
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 19, 2005 2:38 pm PT
Review:  Prince of Persia: The Two Thrones is the ending of the Sands of Time trilogy, and what a great 
 one it is. TTT starts off right after the secondary ending of Prince of Persia: Warrior Within 
 and takes the best things of SOT and WW and puts them into a great game. The story and voice acting 
 have gone back to SOT and are both very good. Ubisoft has added in a new "Speed-Kill System" which 
 not only improves the fantastic platforming but makes the game even better. The Speed-Kills are 
 both fun to watch and to do, you must sneak up onto your enemy and enter a fun reflex mini-game, 
 and although they get a bit repetitive they don't get boring. Another improvement are the Boss 
 fights. Now all the bosses are multi-tier battles involving Free-Form Fighting (Ubi's combat system) , 
 Speed-Kills, and even platforming in some. Another addition is the Dark Prince. This can be viewed 
 as an improvement or a disapointment depending on the player. On one hand his health constantly 
 goes down and his fighting style is a bit boring, in the other his chain, the "Daggertail", makes 
 platforming better. In conclusion TTT is a great game and is a must-buy for all POP and Action/Adventure 
 fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TSmaster4321
Rating: 7.3
Date: Dec 18, 2005 3:32 pm PT
Review:  this game takes you throgh multiple scenarios and adventures killing bad dudes and taking down 
 bosses and to do that you can do things like fast forwording or rewinding and stopping time good 
 game though and the gameplay is the greatest thing about the game the sounds not bad the graphics 
 are nice and smooth anybody can play this game its fun not to complicated at all and its like a 
 shoot em up with a sword but lots of fun for anybody who lieks weapon fighting games or adventure 
 its kinda likes blinx only alot better but the same concept though 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xp_celik
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 18, 2005 1:23 pm PT
Review:  This time the Prince of Persia is coming agaian in a way that everyone who has played the first 
 parts. The Two thrones has more to offer than just puzzles it offers two ways of finishing the 
 game by transforming your self to god and bad from time to time.
  A thing we should add is the story tale on the start UBISOFT should have had chosed a better way 
 to start the farytale becasuse the people who haven't played the first parts will not unterstand 
 how it came to the burning of "babylonia"..
  Etc... but still i am a total fan of Prince of Persia and I have palyed all 3 parts and will continue 
 playing it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rabbixp
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 18, 2005 1:14 am PT
Review:  This third-person action slasher begins with our hero returning to his home in Babylon, only to 
 find his kingdom under siege and his girl (Kylina-Emperor of Time) kidnapped. Instead of the peace 
 that he longs for, he finds his homeland ravaged by war and the kingdom turned against him. The 
 Prince is rapidly captured and Kaileena has no choice but to sacrifice herself and unleash the 
 Sands of Time in order to save him. Now cast to the streets and hunted as a fugitive, the Prince 
 soon discovers that past battles have given rise to a deadly Dark Prince, whose spirit gradually 
 possesses him. It is a great game, as you spend all your energy flipping, jumping, and murdering 
 like a gymnast. Thrones also gets points for cribbing Sam Fisher's stealth skills and using a whip-like 
 weapon that will send God of War fans scurrying to gaming chat rooms to voice their displeasure 
 with the similarities. Thankfully, the controversy is worth it for this energetic adventure. The 
 only drawback to this game is the length. The entire adventure can be done in eight hours or less. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Pain_Killer
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 17, 2005 2:44 am PT
Review:  as we see the prince is coming back to get his kingdom.
  
  This is game is very beautiful game cause she contain some new effect never seen in battle and 
 some new motion videos that make u realy happy.
  So if u love it like me buy it now and don't miss the opportunity to be the man who save his kingdom 
 by the transformation on a dark prince
  If u need any help go the cheats and use them in ur working. but ur miss the game who will take 
 u into another world where no one can see u.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 20648505842410216584325484843111-sonnycX
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 17, 2005 1:28 am PT
Review:  wow!!!............... this is absolutely the best game in the series.
  
  Thank you UBISOFT for providing a game of this caliber.
  Every aspect of the game is flawless. 
 The graphics are mind-blowing, the environments are out of this world, the prince's moves are incredible, 
 the story is the best i've heard in a game.
  
  You come back from the Island of Time with Kaileena only to find that the city of Babylon is under 
 siege. Their ship is wrecked by the invaders, and Kaileena is captured by the enemies. You find 
 out that the vizier is back and quickly rush to save her but the vizier murders Kaileena and unleashes 
 the sands of time upon Babylon, and the prince must battle to regain his kingdom and avenge Kaileena's 
 death.
  But this time it's not just sand creatures that the prince must fight. The sands of time has infected 
 his soul and the prince must also battle the whims of his darker, more arrogant side.
  
  The Two Thrones marks a fitting end to a fantastic trilogy and the plot ties up all the loose ends. 
 This should prove satisfying for all the fans of the series (including myself) .
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tubby_spiderman
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 16, 2005 9:59 pm PT
Review:  well a bit dissapointed with the length of the game & the music. The last pop game ie WW had a very 
 good music which added a different feel to the game, but was not the same in this game. Some new 
 concepts which were added were ausome the main being the Speed kill technique. They could have improve 
 by changing the styles of speedkills. When one sees the same kind of speed kills again and again. Especially 
 in the end one gets bore watching the same speedkills on the wazir.
  I think if a gamer plays this game before playing the previous titles inthe series he will love 
 this game, but having played the previous titles hell be a bit dissapointed. Well i dont know the 
 rest of u but i certainlly believe this. The DARK PRINCE concept was ausome but i thought it would 
 be a different prince and vll not have all over control over him, but this was not the case.
  The ending is great, Finally he gets some peace with his first love. The storyline was not that strong 
 as suspected.
  But a Good Game in the end. I have a request for Ubi-soft "PLZ release another title in this series 
 this will make the pop fans happy." 
::::::

::::::
UserName: persian_king
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 16, 2005 5:33 pm PT
Review:  dfc s sdf sdf dsf sadf dfg dg dfgeg rt et e aae etrt fs sfsfsfsr swtrwe s sfsf tgxvsdvxvs f sf 
 sers sfsfwetresw ers s ss fgs sd+ 6 6 2sf695sdfsdfs sgtsetsf sgfsfssf s sddf ss sf sfs sf g dhfh 
 gfhfh ertgeg dg dfgdfgfdg dgfg dfffffffffg derrrrrrrrrrrtygd dfgdfgd dfgdhfg fg fgh fgh dfh s s 
 dfgs ghegdfg dgdsg dfg dfg dfg dfgdfhyedzsg dgdgdgdgd d df ghjf fg fgf rtfy r ttrju frvf fhfgh 
 fh fhfgh fgh fgh fhfhfghfgf gf fghfgh fgfg fhf fh fh fhf hfrthrf ufr urt rr frhf fghf hhfhj tyd 
 juetrfh dr rdy ydr drhy r ryr trur ru r yryu rtyghghjas ghghw 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NeoTekAngeL
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 15, 2005 5:56 pm PT
Review:  This week I really spent some time playing with this game and I have to admit, it's impressive. 
 Much of the game is like the previous (Warrior Within) but several new features have been added 
 to the attacks. 
  
  First off, the "time attack" is about the coolest thing ever! If you can get behind an enemy, you 
 have the chance to kill your opponent without it fighting back. Not only does this speed the game 
 along, but it makes for a really nice slow-motion effect. Be warned though, if you don't wait on 
 the timing you will get pushed around.
  
  Next, is the whip. You only get this when you're the evil sand being, but it's has some really 
 cool abilities. This is a very easy to use weapon that is especially great for button mashing players. 
 You'll just have to try it out to see what I mean.
  
  The prince has some new moves to get around the levels. This really improves the character movement 
 and player flexibility but most of the rooms are very linear and tend to have an obvious solution.
 
  
  Overall, the game got a 9 in my books. The story was good, graphics were impressive (as usual) , 
 the fighting was awesome, and the new features made the game worth playing.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jgfuj
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 14, 2005 10:28 am PT
Review:  I played this game for a long time ithink about 18-20Hrs total.
  This game got a very and i must say it has the best plot i ever seen...
  actually thats because 
 the man that started those games is a director and learned movies and theatre...
  How he gets to be the evil prince.... AMAZING!..
  The graphics are nice like the last one... 
 not like the plot :P..
  The sound is great...
  The game play.... nothing to say except AWESOME...
  
  Last words:
  This game is awesome there 
 is a variety of combos and cool stuff to do...
  I played all the games and i think its the best of them...
  I advice every one to check this 
 game his great.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mysteriousangel
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 13, 2005 5:06 pm PT
Review:  After completing the sands of time n warrior witihin.. i've been waiting too long for this one... N 
 trust me I AM SATISFIED with the ending... may be it would've been better if kaileena didnt die: ( 
 .... but still the game ROCKS..... i finished it in 1 day and i just coudlnt resist closing the game 
 and doing some other works.... no wonder Starforce was Kinda bugging.. but i somehow managed to play 
 this game on my computer system... the graphics are far more better then the first 2 parts and the 
 sound is truely the best..... The best thing about the game was the variety of the game play... i. e 
 we are able to play with two characters.. OUr pRince and the Dark Prince... YOu gotta move quickly 
 when u're playing as dark prince as your health is declining evey second u play.... the boss battles 
 are great each having separate strategy to beat the bosses... the cart riding was also a cool experience 
 which we could'nt find in any other POP game... The flow of the story was truely great.... considering 
 the aspects of the SANDS OF TIMe by brining FARAH... and warrior within by kaileena... the game follows 
 a certain path and the writer know what he was presenting to the players... simply awesome... only 
 thing which i found that as lacking was the lack of sand powers.... (ONLY 3) ... and the shorter game 
 play time: (.... The game should've been long enough...... UBISOFT ROCKS..... i wish if they'll be 
 palnning to make the POP4... POP rocks!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lapogo
Rating: 4.2
Date: Dec 13, 2005 12:59 am PT
Review:  Ubisoft may have done an ok job when putting the franchise into 3D. But seriously turning PoP into 
 an all out action game like Devil May Cry or Ninja Gaiden is a grand mistake in my opinion since 
 the 1st PoP's made by Jordan himself I dont think meant the franchise to go this direction.
  
  I mean when I used to play PoP way back in my 486 VGA PC's yes the story and the whole obstacle 
 and puzzle solving gave the game its very identity. Instead they turned him to some "Bad ASS" looking 
 guy that barely even looks like a Prince anymore and simply slapped in level designs that barely 
 concentrate on obstacles and puzzle solving and instead made him act like a Ninja (now that they 
 included the "Stealth Kill") . For a skill based action game this is even ridiculously easy ( well 
 probably only cause I got used to Devil May Cry and Ninja Gaiden's difficulty) so it gets old quite 
 fast.
  
  One fine direction that PoP should have taken was like that of Shadow of the Colossus. Seriously 
 after playing that game I was wishing that this is how Prince of Persia should have been remade (save 
 the minionless theme) . The whole realistic movements & avoiding traps using finesse are also practically 
 stripped from these 3D versions.
  
  Ok maybe going this direction may have enlightened several fans who actually wanted the franchise 
 to go this direction and I wont blame them for that but I sure hope they make another version of 
 the franchise wherein they implement the whole realistic theme that PoP was meant to be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LukeAF24
Rating: 5.5
Date: Dec 12, 2005 3:19 pm PT
Review:  Here is another prime example of a console game, ported to PC, to try and make a quick buck. I 
 played this game for about an hour, only to be extremely dissappointed in numerous things.
  
  The graphics are very sub par for a PC title, with no 1280x1024 support. This game is almost 
 unplayable without a gamepad. I used the XB360 gamepad which, out of the box, isn't even support 
 with this game either. I had to search MANY forums to try and find a fix. The In-Game joystick 
 caliberation is WAY off, as your guy seems to move to and fro, as he pleases, when you aren't moving 
 the controller. This makes it EXTREMLY hard when trying to jump from place to place, with small 
 room for error.
  
  To sum it up, buy it on your home console, whether it's PS2, XBox, or GameCube. You will get a 
 much better experiance from it, then I did on this PC version. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frickinkid
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 12, 2005 2:52 pm PT
Review:  i thought it was a good game but it could have much more. i like how you can play two ppl this 
 time.... there are new moves i like that new story but.... its good but not very good just good... i 
 wouldnt be that excited :) well yeah... its better than the last one... more action in this i think 
 but thats just me.. these games are pretty kool but the cammera moves so dumb and its to sensitive 
 like you have to do it perfect to jump to one wall to the next it takes time on this one but i 
 only spend like 7 hours tops i know thats slow but i was hungry which ..... nvm its a good game 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Eremon
Rating: 4.8
Date: Dec 12, 2005 2:49 pm PT
Review:  I have played more games than I can count, and after playing PoP: T2T I have to say I have now 
 played one of the worst games ever made. The play control was obviously slapped together with little 
 or no care for the actual player that has to play this game. Granted, I have not yet tried this 
 game on a console as my copy of the game is the PC DVD-ROM version. However, even with a game pad 
 instead of the keyboard I doubt very much that the game would improve much. It was like being trapped 
 in a movie you'd rather not watch. So if you're looking for a movie with a touch of interaction 
 then this game is for you.
  
  Score 1 - being lowest 10 - being highest.
  
  Play control: 1 
  You have buttons that do various different things depending on where you are 
 standing, which is extremely irritating.
  
  Game play: 3
  Linear and straight forward, no option left to the player to explore. Way too pre-scripted for 
 my taste.
  
  Graphics: 8
  Clean, crisp and wonderful graphics for the game environment. Too bad they're wasted on such an 
 empty game.
  
  Sound: 4
  The sound was alright, nothing special, even though I have an Sound Blaster Audigy Platinum Pro. 
 I enabled EAX and 3D hardware which made little difference.
  
  Value for your dollar: 1
  This is not a game I would recommend to anybody to purchase. A definite rental to see if it's a 
 game you care for, is about the most positive thing I can say. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BogdanV87
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 12, 2005 2:21 am PT
Review:  I am a great fan of the prince of persia series and i have to tell you that I was realy impresed 
 by it. The surprise atack feature is great but kind of hard to do especialy when you turn into 
 the dark prince since nothing indicates when you should click. Besides that i found that it's harder 
 to control then the other 2 and i found that it was a little short. and I don't know if any of 
 you had the same problem i had but when the movies in the game played the sound was always in front. 
 Besides all of this it is a grat game but not the best one I've played as some of you have sayd. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: asus_23
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 11, 2005 10:34 pm PT
Review:  One of the best games i've ever played and it's better than i expected , great graphics brilliant 
 music and one of the greatest stories, this game is perfect and it's the best one in the series 
 till now 
  it's one of the best games of the year and surely worth waiting everyone should play it to know 
 what am talkin about
  I liked the idea that u can choose the dark prince and the original prince so that u can see the 
 two aspect of the story 
  This game take the Prince games back to it's place as one of the greatest games in history 
  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darknight20
Rating: 7.9
Date: Dec 11, 2005 2:33 pm PT
Review:  The gameplay was probably one of better features of the game out of Pop SoT and WW. Most combo 
 move are the same from Pop WW but with speed killing system. Also it is fun to play to dark prince 
 that you get to use a chain to kill your enemies. As far as the difficulty on this game, I think 
 this is the hardest one compare to Pop SoT and WW.
  
  The Graphics was pretty much the same from WW, during the gameplay's character model like Farah 
 was not very detailed about their movement like when she moved her hand for example. They did not 
 put enough detail through make charcater's body part like Farah's hand in a realistic hand as much 
 as possible. I guess that is just minor detailed that not many people care about it much.
  
  The sound in general was okay except there is a few place where the voice's of the prince skip 
 and repeat the same speech 2 times.
  
  Replay value for this one, I don't believe is as high as PoP SoT and WW, first of all, the gameplay 
 for this one is fairly short. In fact I'll say this one has the shortest gameplay out of Pop SoT 
 and WW. Second, The storyline was not as interesting as I would have expected especially in the 
 end of the storyline. Finally, even when I finished the game, it still left me a few question marks. 
 Question like how did the Vizier come back for the dagger of time and most of all I thought the 
 prince had killed the Vizier back at the end of SoT already.
  
  Overall, I think PoP T2T would have been more interesting if the gameplay was longer and at the 
 end of story would explain more on some of unanswer questions. It was kind of a quick and sloppy 
 ending. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fasteru
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 11, 2005 11:52 am PT
Review:  pop it's the best serie of games i ever played, it's a perfect trillogy, i hope that those frome 
 hollyood read this and make a movie about this prince: D. about pop3 i think it's perfect , the 
 sound it's verry good and the speed kills are the best of the game: D: D: D. i hope in the end the 
 prince finds a girl, for eg farra, and married with and also have a child of her :P: P: P becouse 
 i heard this is the last game ..... .... : ( ( pls continue the good work. !!!.!!!
  damn 100 words are too much.... to describe this game
  cuz it's simplly  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Grimkopcap
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 11, 2005 5:21 am PT
Review:  This game is something incredible! I mean, the first two were good, but the third is pure genius!!! 
 Best game I ever played! Perfect gameplay, perfect story... But I really think Ubi-soft could have 
 worked a little bit more on the graphics, The two Thrones does not look much better than Sands 
 of time or Warrior within... The playable Dark prince is a very nice touch, it's always more interesting 
 to play with several main characters (Although the dark prince isn't actually a separate character) 
 i really liked the ending ( by the way, does collecting all life upgrades give you something besides 
 a linger life bar? like an alt-ending or something?) The two thrones is the best part of the trilogy, 
 its longer than Sands of time, brighter than Warrior within... It's very sad, that this is the 
 final part, I hope that Ubi-soft will change their mind and make another one... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zyndrex90
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 10, 2005 10:41 pm PT
Review:  Wow, Thsi game blew many of us Followers of the original Prince of Persia games away. This game 
 is pretty much similar to every single one from the series, so if you liked them you would love 
 this one. There ave been many rumors going around about this game, most of them good and trust 
 me they were right.
  This game adds one main thing to the game, the prince has now two personalities. I am not kidding. 
 One of them is the prince we all have grown to like and the other the dark prince. Story goes that 
 the prince has been infected by the sands of time therefore this new side of him appeared "The 
 untapped potential, everything you ever wanted" in the dark prince's own words. This new prince 
 is an amazing combatatant, but has one major drawback. He looses life every second, but feeds off 
 the sands of time to heal himself. But the best thing that concerns the dark prince is the two 
 arguing, and the dark princes sense of irony and humour, that makes the game the best of all three.
 
  Graphics havent changed much, but cutscenes are amazing, they have revolutionazied the graphgics, 
 and they display things so good that you wish it were a movie.
  There is yet another thing that was added to the combat, speed kills. These attacks are special 
 attacks were you catch the enemy by surprise and have a chance to kill the with some amazing blows, 
 you just have to press the attack button when you are told and if you do it right, there is one 
 less enemy.
  This game is co, mpletely worth its value, and I recommend it to you all. In other words buy it 
 or I will kill you ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mohamadouf
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 10, 2005 4:33 pm PT
Review:  lets start with the story, the game starts where the last one ended, the prince arrives back to 
 babylon thinking he would find his people waiting for him but he discovers his home-land had been 
 attacked by an evil Wazier and the forces of the sand army.... Kailiena is dead and due to the prince 
 being affected by the sands all the way through the trilogy a new character is now arised "The 
 Dark Prince" 
  now you fight your way back to reclaim your throne.
  
  Display.... it doesnt look very different from the previous two episodes of the game, sharp looks, 
 eyecandy objects everywhere. though the camera is still kind of hard to controll for starters or 
 gamers not familiar to this style of games. the tower/birds eye view is no longer available whenever 
 you want it you can only use it in specific part of the game where you would see and Eye icon on 
 the left of the screen which by the way takes most of the fun.
  
  Audio...... kool special effects, finally nice-but-still-not-sticky sound tracks and some arabic-like 
 audio which gives you the feeling of being in an arabic city.
  
  Gameplay..... if i say it better i would be lying cuz the second installment of the game Prince 
 Of Persia: Warrior Within, cuz that episode had the right combination of moves but dont let that 
 get you to think that this game sucks or anything on the contrary in this fine release of POP they 
 put some new combo and way new style of fighting while fighting as the Dark Prince.
  climb wall.. wall run,  
 and at last but still not least the speed Kills
  its as i quote is dope and still hard to perform.
  
  Puzzles, kool as hell .... 
  
  for 
 a sequel to the great POP its really worth it and deserves to be in the series and compared to 
 the previous two POP games this could be the best but as in containing revolutionary ideas still 
 not as good as Warrior Within.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: guildsander
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 10, 2005 11:08 am PT
Review:  I think this is the coolest game ever made. I have played the past two games of "Prince of Persia" 
 and they were great. But the third game of the "Prince of Persia" series is the best. The things 
 that make "Prince of Persia the two thrones" unique are the speed kill sistem, new puzzels, the 
 new environment and the turning into the darck prince. Also the new enemies are great too because 
 there is a lot of these enemies and there AI is better to, thats why they make the speed kills 
 a little more harder to do. Also the battle withe very big monster with no jaw makes "the two thrones" 
 even cooler.
  
  I recomend it to almost everione! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: VolcaN3
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 10, 2005 6:00 am PT
Review:  As I said this is truely the best in series!
  The gameplay is better than ever, the graphics is good but could be better, the sound is amazing! 
 and the story is just wonderfull and exciting!!!
  Ubisoft took the best from the last two games and made a legend!
  I bought it and let me tell 
 you, it worth every cent!
  One of the best things in this game is that the difficulty is just right.
  The one last thing 
 that really sucked was that even when you cut someone's head off there is almost no blood at all!!! 
 but its still acceptable.
  Ubisoft, you did it again, You Rock!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rooz7939
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 9, 2005 9:12 pm PT
Review:  This game i definitely the best game of the series (i still like SOT better since, well it was 
 one of a kind) . great movie sequences and music; the gameplay graphic is also amazing... but there 
 were some minor problems with the audio/video sync in some cutscenes. speed kill system is fun 
 and makes fights faster... if you like raw action, this game would probably not satisfy you very 
 much unless you stop and fight every guard. The boss fights are very fun ..... you have to do certain 
 things to kill them instead of just tossing and turning around and trying to hit them... The chariot 
 rides are fun but could be frustrating (just one note for those who have not played the game...... try 
 not to use too many of your sand tanks during the second chariot ride) . great environment, landscape 
 and drawings with some really nice puzzles in the game. and Oh yeah... a great ending. if you are 
 a fan of the series or have played the last 2 games and liked them, you'll love this.. if you r 
 just looking for action.... well you might want to give it a shot. bottom line: one of the (maybe 
 even THE) best game ive ever played.. and my prime candidate for game of the year. now im gonna 
 start playing prince of Persia (1985) ..
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: saber_127
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 9, 2005 2:29 pm PT
Review:  this is the best game i have ever seen and will see
  this game i've just finished it now and this is the best in series
  i can't talk becaus the game 
 si very exciting and great ending
  i loved the new moves on walls and the speed kill is one of the best things in the game 
  i hated 
 farah in sands of time but in the two thrones is one of the best characters in games 
  thank u UBI SOFT and i hope you do another series of game and be good as prince of persia, but u 
 can't do better of that series :D
  thanks to all team of Prince of Persia
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: irfan_qureshi
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 9, 2005 2:14 pm PT
Review:  Game play is been expended good thing about the game they never turned the story out of player 
 mind plus most surprisingly more effective user freindly interface to play within this game really 
 worth playing.
  
  thankyou POP team for such a series..
  
  I hope you people are upto some thing that really will shock the gaming world next year.
  
 
  Keep up the good work ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! 
 ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! 
 ! ! ! ! !
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: captain110
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 9, 2005 9:59 am PT
Review:  This was the real prince! The persian enmviroment, great music, fantastic moves, and lovely story!
 
  The palace reminds the 1989's pop and the city calls back popShadowOfTheFlame. The combination 
 of TSOT and WW is exactly the way it should be, storytelling and prince talking to himself beside 
 great free form fighting system. various kinds of weapons beside finishing moves with the dagger.
 
  one of the most fantastic parts is the speed kill system which is a revolution in pop series, 
 and the story line compelets the work!
  I strongly recommend palying this game, and I'll asure you, it is so adictive that you will even 
 dream of the Prince! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: s_vv
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 9, 2005 9:16 am PT
Review:  This is the only sands of time story unthought of in previous installments of the series- the prince 
 getting affected by the sands leading to the creation of a darker prince. The dark prince is the 
 coolest he gets to use a chain like weapon called the dagger tail which can be used to perform 
 some awesome swinging & swishing combos. The normal prince handles more or less just like in POP 
 WW. The introduction of speed kills adds a new of bunch of stealth attacks which can finish enemies 
 in a hurry. The voice acting for both the princes is excellent. The talking between the split personalities 
 is also amusing to hear.
  The graphics engine is same as the one used in WW, it still produces some great & visually stunning 
 graphics. The camera veiw can be hindering at times 
  but it can be overlooked. Theres nothing wrong with the game play though, its perfect.
  
  I 
 HOPE NO BODY HAS TROUBLE WITH STAR FORCE BECAUSE I DIDN'T.
  
  HAPPY GAMING. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dr_Lucifer
Rating: 7.3
Date: Dec 9, 2005 5:25 am PT
Review:  well, i've been waiting long for this one, but somehow i was dissopointed!
  it's a good game, but i expected more in changing the prince's gear through out the game. it might 
 seem a bit pointless but i wanted that like in the sands of time it started with a hoodey on, then 
 off then, arms torn, and finally no shirt. here u get the white rag, then it's off 'till the end.
 
  anywayz, i can ignore that, by focusing on the gameplay, where i expected more moves like what 
 happened in ww. instead i found moves removed like there was a backbreaker where the prince used 
 to grab an enemy turn around and keep crushing his back, i can't do it here.
  nice graphics is cool , and the chariot is fantatistic, but this game could've been much better! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danielcwc
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 8, 2005 8:41 pm PT
Review:  I have to say, this game impressed me in every possible way you can think of. This game is a wonderful 
 sequence to the 2 previous prince of persia games. If you have played the first 2 prince of persia 
 games, I am sure that you would be familiar to the story. I agree that if you didn't play the first 
 two games you probably won't understand the story. But the story is so good that even you don't 
 know what happened before, you might not even care about it anyways. A couple of new game styles 
 are added to the game, such as the speed kill system, dark prince, new moves, etc. If you have 
 played the first 2 games, you would definitely like the speed kill system, fast, clean and done. 
 My favourite part of the game is the using of dark prince. This guy looks amazing in the game with 
 cool moves that could really make your eyes bright. New mechanics, new weapons, a lot of new stuff 
 is added. But of course, the old stuff are remained there, so don't worry about missing one of 
 two moves from the previous games. They're all there. Also one of the good things about this game 
 is that you can really prove that you are smarter than your friends. I mean, this game requires 
 something called, LOGIC. If you think the puzzles are hard to solve, don't say that the design 
 of them sucked. Just admit that the puzzles are designed for the smart people, dumb people would 
 just complain about how impossible the puzzles can be solved and start getting frustrating ending 
 up saying the game sucks. The puzzles in this game are plain logic. If you can't solve it , don't 
 say the game sucks, you suck. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jedo
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 9, 2005 2:59 am PT
Review:  Warning: When I came here over a week ago I saw several reviews on Prince Of Persia Two Thrones 
 as well as a hundred or so people who rated the game. At that time the game was not yet released 
 on PC; not even for the consoles (not even underground) , so I consider those reviews to be spam. 
 Im not sure if this kind of thing happens more often but its the first time that I noticed it. 
 Therefore to all players who want to judge based on user reviews whether to buy a game: be careful 
 and wait till the Gamespot and other websites review that game!
  
  Foreword
  
  Here we are then; the third game in the Ubisofts fine trio has arrived on PC. There were so many 
 high scores for the console versions of the game that, I guess, amongst people there is no doubt 
 that the game is good. I will, however, try to concentrate on its bad sides as well as its good 
 sides and, hopefully, balance things out. One cant describe the final Prince of Persia game without 
 a lot of referring to the previous versions because they belong so well together, and because many 
 gamers want to know the differences between the games, especially since all that negative controversy 
 surrounding the second game in the series. I will start off by having a quick summary of the events 
 in Prince of Persia series, referred to from here on as PoP (watch out, spoilers!) . I will then 
 go through my typical criteria like the graphics and the sound. 
  
  The story
  
  As I said, first, Im going to amass the events together.
  
  In the first game, the Prince 
 is busy expanding his fathers empire, when he finds a dagger that happens to be a key to opening 
 Sands of Time, a sort of manifestation of time that can bless you with great power but can also 
 curse others. Back at Princes palace, a power-hungry traitorous vizier makes the Prince open the 
 Sands and all hell breaks loose as all the people of the city are turned into evil sand monsters. 
 Naturally the prince and Farah (the princess whose identity, after so many versions of the story, 
 I can no longer track) have to stop the vizier and turn stuff back to normal. Having a little time-turning 
 trick up his sleeve, thanks to the Dagger of Time, the Prince succeeds and in doing so undoes everything 
 that happened. 
  
  In the second game, a powerful creature, not of this world, follows the Prince wherever he goes, 
 seemingly willing to kill him in order to restore the anomaly that the prince caused with the Sands 
 of Time. The sad and pessimistic prince travels back to the maker of the Sands of Time to make 
 sure that the sands were never created. For that he has to confront and save the Empress of Time 
 to prevent the release of the Sands. He succeeds and returns home with an Empress under his sheets 
 (thats if you got to the alternative ending) , only to find his kingdom in ruins. 
  
  And thats where the third story begins. The vizier is back and he captures and kills the Empress 
 to unleash the Sands once again, however giving the Prince something special (by accident) in the 
 process. After the death of the Empress, Farah comes into the spotlight once again. Hey, I guess 
 if the royal empress is out of business, a maharajas daughter will have to do. 
  
  Although the story in itself is strong in PoP3, it is rather dependable on the previous games. 
 Right in the intro movie, youre shown events that leave a fair amount of question and exclamation 
 marks in your head. There will be comments that refer to something happening in the past, but it 
 just doesn't explain it too well, so when the Prince talks to Farah and thinks "Seven years and 
 nothing has changed" you're left confused.
  
  Gameplay
  
  Not all is lost for the Prince, as the Dagger of Time is once again with you to give you the power 
 of slowing and turning back time. I wish I had that kind power when talking to women... Anyways, 
 youll have a limited amount of that goodness of course but you can replenish it in different ways 
 throughout the game.
  
  Warning: if youre terrified of heights, dont play this game because you will be hanging from 
 a miniature ledge above oblivion quite often. Jumping from a column to the wall, stabbing your 
 sword into an opening on the surface and then running along the wall only to jump onto another 
 ledge, youll have your fingers full with this acrobatic simulator.
  
  Besides jumping youll be doing a lot of killing. Unlike its predecessor, PoP3 doesnt regularly 
 provide the player with new and intimidating looking dual swords but instead, for the most of the 
 campaign, you will be stuck with just one little dagger as the main weapon (you do receive one 
 special sword towards the end of the game in your left hand) . Throughout the game you will also 
 be able to pick up different weapons in your left arm, but they dont last for too long. Battle 
 techniques vary, depending what your hands hold. There are plenty of gorgeous looking ways to slaughter 
 someone using the acrobatic skills of the Prince. Enemies of all kind, as well as several bosses, 
 await you to test your skills. Ugly never looked so pretty. 
  
  The new system in Two Thrones is the stealth killing, also known as speed-kill system, which is 
 done beautifully. The character automatically draws weapon and starts crouching when he closes 
 in on the enemy, but the kill can also be done while hanging from above or even in flight. Not 
 only is this system available, but stealth is also well encouraged by providing the player with 
 extra opportunities and extra ledges for your character to attack the enemy from. The game also 
 provides reasons for using the speed-kill system, as sometimes, you will come across a group of 
 enemies, one of whom can call for back up if you do not kill him quickly. 
  
  Since the Prince gets infected by the Sands of Time, he receives split personality and occasionally 
 turns into a different creature (effects of prolonged war on human psychic arent pretty, I tell 
 ya) . This is your second character if you may. He is the Princes dark side but, as most semi-evil 
 characters, hes one cool-looking guy and very powerful too. He allows for more fascinating acrobatic 
 travel. However, the dark prince looses health constantly. That little misfortune, in return, forces 
 the player to speed up the pace and that reduces the total playing time which, in my eyes, reduces 
 the value of the game.
  
  One of the things some gamers might hate in any game is getting stuck on some level and having 
 to redo the level numerous times. And since Two Thrones doesnt allow saving at will, you will 
 be (providing youre just a human) repeating some stuff many times. On the brighter side, there 
 are checkpoints where you can save and actually they are placed on just the right distance from 
 one other. The checkpoints are part of the whole idea about telling the game as if it was a story. 
 From time to time you will hear the Empress read a few lines from the story, and every time when 
 you reach a checkpoint and save, she goes, Should I continue my story from here next time? The 
 story telling is a nice touch, but the developers wouldnt hurt the game by also adding the ability 
 to save manually, at least because of the PoPs never ending problem with controls and camera views 
 that I will discuss later in the review.
  
  I wonder, by the way, how the Empress tells the story when the character dies over and over again? 
 Ok so he jumped and then he was killed by this monsterno wait, thats not how it happenedhe 
 killed that monster but was killed by a razor two seconds laterno thats not it eitherHmm, now 
 where was I..? Oh yes, he was about to enter a room filled with monsters Wouldnt you get annoyed 
 with the story after about 30 seconds?
  
  The game features several puzzles, which are usually well combined with the acrobatic work. Those 
 puzzles arent hard, but then again, they do not take a central place in the game but rather complement 
 the action.
  
  Visuals
  
  The graphics havent changed much since the last Prince of Persia which is both: good and bad. 
 The visuals still mainly sit upon light-bloom effect. For those who dont know what light-bloom 
 effect is; its something thats been used in new games in the last couple of years that makes 
 every object in game have a little glow to it. It looks especially well on things that already 
 glow to begin with like, for example, the alternative dark prince. It makes for a nice eye candy 
 but take the effect away and the game doesnt look as splendid. 
  
  When you first make landfall, youll see the empress on the ground from head to toe. Her fingers 
 are merged together, her hair looks like its been constructed from Lego pieces and her clothing 
 is very blurry. With this kind of imperfection PoP3 cant score too high on graphics. On todays 
 market weve seen better. On the other hand, there are some stone surfaces in the game that reflect 
 very nicely and the game also makes a good use of light.
  
  But when it comes to animation and environment, the game truly triumphs. The atmosphere of the 
 ruined city is awesome. Tower of Babylon in the background, siege towers and great looking architecture 
 manage to create quite a mood for the player, even though half of it does look unnaturally placed 
 just for the prince to jump about.
  
  Animations deserve an extra paragraph. Every time the prince commits one of his deadly sneak attacks, 
 the knife shines as the prince does a graceful flip to stab it into the enemys body. The blood 
 gashes out realistically as the enemy falls to his knees (btw only the earlier versions of enemies 
 bleed; the latter sand-versions justshine to death) . Yet the violence is more child-friendly this 
 time around. Some of the seemingly harmless acrobatic tricks in PoP3, in PoP2 were causing the 
 bodies to be split in two. 
  
  The cut scenes are all youd expect from Ubisoft and they make for an interesting movie if combined. 
 You can, by the way, unlock them as well as other pictures in the main menu, using your sand credits 
 that you gain throughout the game. 
  
  Controls and camera view
  
  The controls are unfortunately one of the weak points in the game; at least they are on the PC 
 version. The game conveniently warns you during the installation that the game is best playable 
 with an analogue controller. When the game starts, some of the tips you see on screen are for the 
 analogue controller and some for the mouse. Well thats oppressive... Seems like the developers 
 never did have the PC in mind when creating the game.
  
  In addition, it was very uncomfortable when the camera was auto-centering every time you moved, 
 making it impossible to do both: run and look around. The camera does occasionally allow for special 
 wide-viewing so the player can see what the next room offers him, and theres also a first person 
 view; but the wide-view possibility is rare, and its just not convenient to stop every time you 
 need to look somewhere other than straight. 
  
  Because the camera view often affects the way you have to push buttons, you get into awkward situations 
 when you press one key, sure of where the character will jump, and the prince happily jumps the 
 other way towards nothingness. Once you get accustomed to this, you will start predicting correctly 
 what buttons to press. However, due to the disability to save the game at will and the limited 
 number of times that you can turn back the time and the pressure when youre in control of the 
 dark prince, (whose health reduces continuously) the problem with camera angles can get pretty 
 annoying. 
  
  Another thing to add is that my version of the game seems to have a weird bug, if you can call 
 it like that, where no matter what side I turned, the Prince would turn back facing the camera 
 or just the opposite direction of where I want him toThat split personality of his must be a real 
 b***
  
  Sound
  
  Nothing to celebrate but its decent. The level of acting is professional. It also corresponds 
 well with the visual representation (unless your video card is choking during cut scenes) , and 
 the game even manages to put a little humor into the acting now and then (and few games have succeeded 
 in that) . In particular, the conversations the Prince has with his darker self are hilarious. What's 
 more, the soundtrack is appropriate to the ambience. This time, the music returns from the heavy 
 metal tracks, the gamer experienced in the previous PoP2, to the more adventurous kind of music. 
 The heavy rock change in the PoP2 seemed to be form quite an issue with some of the fans of the 
 PoP Sands of Time.
  
  Performance
  
  On average, it ran more or less smoothly on my weak 2 GHz P4, Radeon 9600 machine, but that is 
 to be expected from this level of graphics and lack of open space. Nonetheless, my frame rate was 
 slowing down to sickening lows on some maps with several soldiers fighting in the background, and 
 during some of the cut-scenes when the animation was slowing down and falling behind the sound. 
 Some of the lighting used can take a toll on your system too. All of this isnt much of a worry 
 for someone with a medium-to-high end system.
  
  Value
  
  This is one of the final and, to some gamers, the most important question: is this goodness worth 
 the money. Well lets be honest, theres no multiplayer and no skirmish. The replay value is questionable, 
 especially after you already died and replayed some parts of some levels a hundred times over, 
 before reaching the damn checkpoint. The price of this baby is in the high budget range, topping 
 $50. So considering the former, you might want to wait a bit before the price drops or maybe just 
 rent the game.
  
  Conclusion
  
  So to summarize, Prince of Persia 3, as well as of its two predecessors, can be described as a 
 fruity cocktail of puzzles, killing and gymnastics. Prince Of Persia 3 Two Thrones is a good ending 
 to the trilogy. So good, in fact, that they shouldve released the second and the third game as 
 one because Two Thrones sometimes shows you things that you would have a hard time understanding 
 if you havent played the previous games. The story is intriguing (especially if you played the 
 other PoP games) . In addition, theres plenty of very varied action in the game to keep your jaw 
 open at all times. The graphics of the game are good but its not a revolution. All in all, the 
 fans of the PoP series should be pleased with this piece of art.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tkranjc8
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 8, 2005 12:37 pm PT
Review:  The game is better than previous ones. In my opinion the chariot part and speed kill thing are 
 refresh to what we were used to and the new moves and better sound also rates this game better 
 than it's predecessors. The Dark Prince is also amazing, you have to admit that you would rather 
 be playing the whole game just with him... but there was also some room for improvement. The graphics 
 were changed just a lil' bit, they could have done something about that, and that is really the 
 only objection i have. The most important part, the story, is ,yet again, very well done and will 
 likely keep you playing for hours. The sound is one of improved parts in this game, it wields with 
 environment.
  I just want to say few things about reviews I read:
  1. If you already decided to write an a review make it objective, don't just put in your personal 
 thoughts, especially if you have a need to spit on it 
  2. If you don't like this kind of game don't even bother to write anything
  3. If you really 
 didn't liked the game, try to explain why don't just write this game sucks etc. Tell, in impartial 
 way, what is wrong 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jacksonfdam
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 8, 2005 8:19 am PT
Review:  Esse captulo promete misturar os melhores elementos das duas verses anteriores (The Sands of 
 Time e Warrior Within) adicionando novos elementos e personagens que devero, segundo o release, 
 satisfazer os fs e novatos.
  "Prince of Persia 3 promete ser O melhor episdio da lendria franquia", disse John Parkes, Diretor 
 de Marketing da Ubisoft. "Combinando dois personagens jogveis em uma gameplay balanceada, com 
 a perfeita mistura de movimentos acrobticos e um enredo convincente, Prince of Persia apelar 
 tanto os fs de Sands of Time quanto os de Warrior Within. O Prncipe est de volta para reclamar 
 seu reino, e ele tem algumas surpresas na manga..."
  O Prncipe, um guerreiro veterano, retorna da Ilha do Tempo para a Babilnia (na Prsia) com sua 
 amada, Kaileena. Ao invs da paz que ele tanto desejava, ele encontra sua Terra Natal devastada 
 pela guerra e o reino agora est contra ele. O Prncipe  rapidamente capturado e Kaileena no 
 encontra alternativa seno se sacrificar liberando as Areias do Tempo para salv-lo. Agora, escondido 
 e caado nas ruas como um fugitivo, ele logo descobre que batalhas do passado trouxeram de volta 
 o mortal Prncipe Negro (Dark Prince) , cujo esprito gradativamente o est possuindo.
  Em Prince of Persia 3, os jogadores controlaro dois personagens distintos: o Prncipe e o Dark 
 Prince. Seus poderes e armas so distintos, assim como seus estilos de combate, atitudes e histrias. 
 O sistema de livre movimentao e combinao de golpes est de volta e melhor do que nunca, permitindo 
 que os jogadores criem seus prprios meios de acabar com os inimigos, adicionando um pouco de toque 
 pessoal em seu estilo de combater. Armas novas como a mortal Daggertail permitir ataques de longa 
 distncia contra os adversrios, e os jogadores podero tambm utilizar a letal arte de matar furtivamente 
 (stealth kills) .
  
  Como podemos verificar nas imagens, parece que o time de designers tem gastado bastante tempo na 
 criao de ambientes com a temtica persa. Julgando seu trabalho nas verses anteriores, podemos 
 esperar por uma arquitetura fantstica, cheia de passagens estreitas, beirais para serem usados 
 em fuga e em combate e, claro, uma ambientao escura e desoladora.
  Assim como originado em Sands of Time, os jogadores podero controlar o tempo para surpreender 
 os inimigos a executar ataques poderosos contra exrcitos inteiros, retardando ou retrocedendo 
 no tempo. Novas tcnicas estaro  disposio dos fs do Prncipe da Prsia. 
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: FarshidStar2010
Rating: 7.3
Date: Dec 8, 2005 2:44 am PT
Review:  General: Prince Of Persia T2T Just Looks As Previous Title Of This Series. Although "Sands Of Time" 
 Was The Big Jump Over The past Series ,Unfortunately There's Nothing New Here!. After About 1 years 
 Passed From Release Of "Warrior Within". The Question From Ubi Soft Is:" hey guys!, What Kind Of 
 Improvement U've Done For This Version?!, Just a few Kill Tactics Such As "Kill Speed" and more 
 Complex Walk & Jump Skills ,Thats The Whole?! , would Better That Dont Spend Persian's History 
 For Naming This Weak Game!". Persian Themselves Were Always Leader Of Creating New, Beautiful And 
 Intelligential Artificials and Inventions In All Platforms For Many Years, But Now, Ubi Soft Team 
 didn't Work Much On Development Of The Game That Related To That History!, It's shameful!.
  
  Graphic: Worse Than Expected. No Change Since The SOT, We Can See The Same Engine, Old DirectX 
 7 & 8 Shaders If Any, Poor Textures With No Details (Body Head And Arm Looks As Woody Parts!, Sword 
 Seems As Piece Of Paper! ,No Water Reflect And Transparency, All Even With Max Setting.
  
  Sound: Better Than WW. Better Use Of Music In Different Positions, Good Environmental Sounds And 
 Support For Creative Advanced HD.
  
  Controls: Same as Before. Sometimes Crazy and We Won't Get Expected Action, Especially When Camera 
 Position Changes.
  
  AI: Excluding Prince, All Others Little Improved But Still Choppy and Make No Scene.
  
  Conclusion: 
 Nothing New, Just Boring, For Those Guys Interested These Kind Of Games I Recommend 2 Title Instead:" 
 King Kong" From Ubi Soft And "Fable: The Lost Chapters" From Microsoft . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aureliusmicron
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 7, 2005 3:14 am PT
Review:  SIn there is no gamespot review posted and others are just giving 20; s ive decided to post a realistic 
 review.
  
  This game serves basically to give you whatever desire you have left to play as the nable and bloodthirsy 
 prince. The first in the series proved to be a revolutionary introduction to a new kind of game. 
 The second in the series extened on the engine and story to add better combat scenes and longer 
 playability, The third in the series while descent doesm; t really extend much on tha gameplay of 
 warrior within but gives us a solid roundin of the first 2 games while giving us a few extra features 
 to spice it up.
  
  Gameplay- If you couldn; t get enough of warrior within combat system you; ll find everything there 
 was in this titles. The combat Sytem hasn; t changed at all apart from a few extra moves with the 
 princes dark side and chain. The Game has added stealth and finishing moves which require precision 
 mouse clicks at certain intervals. This feature has worked well for the gameplay offering a substitute 
 for the gung ho apprach to killing and a bit of variety. Almost all boss level guys on the game 
 require multiple timed stab wound of the kind to kill them, The intervals in which to click are 
 signals by a grey screen extra light from your weapon and a fractional slomotion giving you about 
 a quarter of a second to react before you fail to kill the guy. Wallslides as well as knife climbing 
 grates are some of the new moves necessary to win. Chariot rides are another small feature to break 
 up the action. Overall The gameplay Hasn; t advanced much and with little sight or need to further 
 this great gameplay we can say good by to this awsome triligy and welcome the movie thats set to 
 be released.
  
  Graphics - the engine has always been good in prince of persia, bright ,consistant and runs on 
 rull resolutions with ease. However with little or no visible improvements to the engine it leaves 
 a little to be dissapointed while we are glad that the developers have decided to keep consistancy 
 in the three titles, the only real visible imrovements is that to the characters themselves which 
 have been further spiced up and designed.
  
  Sound - Sound and music has always been excellent in prince of persia, Constantly adaptive and 
 consitant to scene, weapons and traps.
  
  Value - While the campaign is about as long as warrior within while this game doesn't suffer from 
 the backtracking of the second one. The second one made up for it with its new style and features 
 while two thrones could have definately used a little something else to bring something fresh to 
 the table.
  
  Bringing the best of prince of persia to you in a final conlusion i can saftely say all fans wont 
 be dissapointed,
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: squidjosh
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 6, 2005 11:46 pm PT
Review:  This game is definately one to buy, even if you havent played the first two. The people that are 
 giving this game a low score because they say it isnt a good fighting game dont understand that 
 this game is an action/adventure game and not a fighting game. And another thing... the person that 
 reviewed this game that said the prince doesnt have a sword obviously hasnt played more than 15 
 minutes of the game nor any of the previous two. This game is probably the best in the series... definately 
 better that "The Warrior Within." Buy this game, you wont be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: x_ingetje
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 6, 2005 6:42 am PT
Review:  The first to part where great but Prince of Persia: The Two Thrones is really really great. In 
 this game are the best things of both games before this one combined. It has the great fights as 
 in The prince of Persia Warrior within. But the free form fighting is even better in this one. 
 U can really kill the enemy on your own way. The story is okay. And the music really makes the 
 game complete. In my opinion this is the best game of this year. If you havent tried it yet, you 
 really should! Because u dont know what youre missing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lukeboy
Rating: 5.9
Date: Dec 5, 2005 11:12 pm PT
Review:  I have to say, The two Thrones is dissappointed. Even we can see a alot of people here like it. 
 But I have to say, there are good things about it, but the idea that makes players try'n error 
 is just not fun.
  
  There are many sequence requiring luck instead of skill to pass, The chariot sequence is sometimes 
 frustrateding. it's not because that you can't make any mistake. The biggest problem is the controling 
 . The same problem also happens on Fighting. You can't lock on one of the enemy. It randomly switches 
 the target based on the directing you face.
  
  This is not a fighting game, this is a puzzle action game. althgouth the speed kill level up the 
 fun, but still, the basic fighting is not that exciting and also frustrating too.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rellington
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 5, 2005 6:55 pm PT
Review:  Coming into POP3 I wasnt expecting anything new except maybe less badittude. Will the badittude 
 has been cut down a fair bit but also some new game mechanics have been added. 
  
  These include chariot sequences, speed kills which involve timed button pressing for some seriously 
 satisfying smack down or SSS. These are also included in boss battles ala God Of War and add some 
 new flavour to the series. Some minor platforming nuances have been added as well. 
  
  The graphics of POP3 are only slightly better then the previous two. Most of this comes from the 
 lighting effects that stream through windows or flash blindingly off the prince. 
  
  Sound is probably my most favourite part of this game. No longer do I hear constant Godsmack while 
 I duel baddies, now I hear haunting period music with the occasional rock beat. The VO is pretty 
 well done especially with the prince, but none of the performances really reach out and slap me 
 across the face with awesomeness. 
  
  The combat has improved tremendously with the introduction of the speed kill. I get that action 
 movie feeling when Im dropping down upon enemies quickly and with style. Although I only experienced 
 this once with in the game, I was able to drop down on an enemy and link together 2 enemies with 
 1 speed kill. I almost pissed myself in excitement as I leapt back and forth between the two dealing 
 some OH SO SWEET punishment.
  
  The storyline is just as good as the previous titles and really sums the 
  trilogy's epic storyline 
 up. When I heard that last line and tied it back to the first game, I almost broke out in applause. 
 This is the way to end a trilogy! Go out with a bang leaving gamers wanting more. If this indeed 
 the end of the prince's adventures, I am satisfied. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _sander
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 5, 2005 11:51 am PT
Review:  Was it worth the wait? Oh yes it was! In fact, I think this one is the most finest entry in the 
 SoT trilogy.
  
  At the beginning of the game, you probably don't see much of a difference from last years Warrior 
 Within. But you will see that there is enough new substance after you get a few hours into the 
 game. They added just the right amount of new stuff into the game, so it's not 'too' different 
 from it's predecessors. Veteran players of SoT and WW will immediately feel like home and probably 
 won't have any problems with the controls. But also the newcomers won't need more than a half an 
 hour to get use to them. 
  The graphic engine is old (so it will run on the weaker systems as well) , but the game still provides 
 a satisfying amount of detail - the envoirments in general are beautiful and nice to look at. For 
 example, by jumping on the rooftops of Babylon, you'll see your destination, the Tower of Babel, 
 in the horizon. The city itself has a quite 'alive' feel to it when you'll see guards terrorizing 
 people in the back alleys and some rebels fighting against the attackers. 
  The story... yeah, the story is great and it wraps up all the loose ends and gives answers to all 
 (or at least most) of your questions.
  
  Gamplay is great as always. The new-speed kill system is a nice touch, but you probably won't use 
 it that much later in the game, but that really depends on your play style. Since I'm more a warrior 
 type, I used mostly the free-form fighting system, which is back ofcourse. And I think that this 
 entry has the most platforming action of them all. There are a few new tricks too, like the split 
 jump and dagger plant. 
  
  The only thing that troubled me at times, was the camera. Since the PC version is a console port 
 (I assume) , controlling the camera with mouse and keyboard wasn't really that good. I know they 
 tell that for the best gaming experience you should use a gamepad, but unfortunately I don't have 
 one. But despite the camera, the PC controls aren't bad at all, since you can map your keys as 
 you wish.
  
  The last few hours of the game were the most exciting ones. Visually, as well as story wise. Final 
 battle gives a good challenge (if you paly at least with the normal difficulty, for the first time) 
 but I also wish there were more boss battles in the game.
  
  In general, Prince of Persia: The Two Thrones is a definite MUST-PLAY for everyone interested in 
 the Prince of Persia games. But if you are new to the series, I would suggest you to play it's 
 predecessors before taking this one, just to understand the story better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brettlee01
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 5, 2005 4:28 am PT
Review:  The Prince of Persia: Sands of Time trilogy has always been known for its tight controls and satisfying 
 environmental puzzles set in beautiful levels. The series' control scheme has served as a model 
 for countless other games that also feature an acrobatic protagonist like the Prince. The same 
 great interface remains in the third game of the series, The Two Thrones. Like the other two games, 
 you'll find yourself wall running, jumping, flipping, and vaulting your way up fiendishly designed 
 environmental puzzles, as well as fighting vicious enemies with the improved combat system introduced 
 in the last game, Warrior Within. The Prince has a few new tricks up his sleeve as well, but longtime 
 fans of the series should still feel right at home. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wolferyn
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 4, 2005 6:32 am PT
Review:  Fast, Easily understood, bright, atractive, perfect gameplay, and sexier characters~! 
  
  This is for now one of my favoured games in the year 2005 apart from the other games i've played. 
 Lovely characters that were were designed along with calm and catchy music, addictive characters 
 and gameplay, apart from that, a lovely storyline and beautiful background that gives you the feel 
 of the game and GREAT character movements! A must play game! ^___^
  
  The only small downfall to this are the controls. A little hard to control your character and can 
 give you a slight dizzyness if you pay attention to the game too much~ Haha. =P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CeldorDK
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 4, 2005 5:20 am PT
Review:  No doubt the best Prince of Persia ever made! Loads of moves, attacks and things to do! Though 
 it is a bit crouched!
  
  What I mean with crouched is that there is not much room to do all those moves and attacks that 
 you have learned. This is a platform game, just as all the other Prince of Persia versions that 
 has been made.
  
  Suggestion: Make more room! Gamers need it.
  
  Thats all, now to the rating!
  
  I put my ratings the right places right? I think I did ;P
 
  
  100 words 100 words 100 words 100 words 100 words 100 words 100 words 100 words 100 words 100 words 
 100 words 100 words 100 words 100 words 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spurrv
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 3, 2005 6:07 pm PT
Review:  I really really really hated pop 3d, and really loved sands of time and warrior within, now the 
 two thrones have arrived and im in love again. Never in my life have i had som much fun as when 
 i played sands of time and warrior within, its amazingly beautiful graphics blows oyur mind and 
 the fighting and acrobatics is always fun.
  
  Its not the same game as the old classic ones, get over it. Its just a really fun action/adventure 
 game that you will really love. Its worth all the money and time, you do not WASTE time here, you 
 SPEND time because you CHOOSE to.
  
  Play it NOW! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stamate
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 3, 2005 2:24 pm PT
Review:  The Prince of Persia, a seasoned warrior, returns from the
  
  Island of Time to Babylon with his love Kaileena. Instead of the
  
  peace that he longs for, 
 he finds his homeland ravaged by war
  
  and the kingdom turned against him. The Prince is rapidly
  
  captured and Kaileena has no choice 
 but to sacrifice herself and
  
  unleash the Sands of Time in order to save him. Now cast to the
  
  streets and hunted as a 
 fugitive, the Prince soon discovers that
  
  past battles have given rise to a deadly Dark Prince, whose
  
  spirit gradually possesses him...
 
  
  Prince of Persia The Two Thrones is the third installment in Ubisoft's action adventure series.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SSJ4_majin
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 3, 2005 1:55 pm PT
Review:  Dear fans of the PoP series, this new game may be something that will shock you but in the best 
 way possible. We were promised the Dark Prince  he is here but he does not take control of the 
 body. He is just a voice in the princes head. He is charming a voice making the prince do what 
 he wants but he is also the princes friend hes a little darker in nature but he helps the prince 
 as best he can. He also makes fun of the prince but only to spur him on. The body of the dark prince 
 comes out because the infection of the sands he changes back because water seems to stop the infection 
 and the prince uses this.
  I will NOT reveal any part of the story. I would ruin it and you wouldnt want that. But the story 
 is great one of the best parts of the game.
  Visually the game does not differ that much from PoP2 but a lot of bugs have been fixed And of 
 course some new ones have appeared :D (For example sometimes when you kill an enemy their weapon 
 remains floating in the air) .
  There is something that would disappoint you all . The camera. Its just atrocious if left in 
 default spend a few moments to set it as best you can and you will play with great ease. 
  The AI is annoying!! By annoying I mean really strong the enemies will fight ass best they can 
 and they will kill you if not very careful. 
  The speed kill system is just amazingIt will delight you every time you do it. Speaking of fighting, 
 the two payable characters are totally different in fighting styles, even if the same mind controls 
 them both. As the prince bases his attacks and fast and hard attacks, the Dark Prince uses a more 
 painful method: he just pounds his enemies in to well sand. Even the speed kills are totally different. 
 The prince uses 2 dagger hits the Dark Prince strangles his victims and then severs their head.
 
  If you are not a fan of the PoP series or if you are, you HAVE GOT to play this game. Its just 
 breathtaking.
  The music is just perfect. Combining the persian style with sometimes a stronger type of music, 
 hanging from location to location and character to character. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: perspolisamir
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 3, 2005 12:29 am PT
Review:  I am Iranian & Prince of Persia is our people . Prince of Persia is the best game that I played 
 .Prince of persia :The two Thrones is very good game .
  I wish that this game will make again .
  I like Max Payne and Prince of Persia .
  Prince of 
 Persia shows brave man that help people of his country .
  finally I just can't wait to play this game that (in my opinion) have no mistake. and I thank UBI's 
 team for producing such a perfect game with perfect story. i expect this game to win more than 
 million player and alot of money, lol . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 7odafone
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 2, 2005 2:33 pm PT
Review:  the prince of persia is the best game i have played. all the 2 editions before this were great 
 and i expect that the third installment or part to be more than great, extremely great. there are 
 new speed kill moves with the free form fighting system and new puzzles, weapons and powerful enemies.
 
  also prince of persia have a great story that i like it very much and i thought to produce a film 
 according to this game. finally i just can't wait to play this game that (in my opinion) have no 
 mistake. and i thank UBI's team for producing such a perfect game with perfect story. i expect 
 this game to win more than million player and alot of money, lol 
::::::

::::::
UserName: princa
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 1, 2005 7:31 pm PT
Review:  10.0 the best game this year the best game even i see this year the prince of persia the two thrones 
 i seen the best game of the prince of persia sands of time trilogy the game is absolutly the best 
 action adventuring in the 3d action games the ubisoft team is the best this year my vote is this 
 game must the game of the year absolutly i this game we have a very god speed kill sistem and the 
 free form fighting sistem is changed with the new very coooooooooollll moves the puzles very god 
 the story is very god bad the best in this games ia have now words the enviroments absoltly the 
 best ia can see i the video games sow the game mus the game of the year an he is the best prince 
 of persia game in the sands of time trilogy 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
