-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Prince of Persia
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/princeofpersiaworkingtitle/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Intricate level design.
 Beautiful art direction.
 Platforming is entertaining and looks great.
 Cinematic combat moves are cool to pull off and impressive to watch.
 Elika's presence leads to unique gameplay mechanics.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Really, really easy.
 The new prince isn't a good leading man.
 Some combat and platforming annoyances.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec  2, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8
Critic Score: 8.0, 17 Review (s)
User Score: 8.3, 1,812 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ubisoft
Developer: Ubisoft Montreal
Genre: Fantasy Action Adventure
Date:     Dec 2, 2008 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Prince of Persia's shimmering veneer and joyous platforming will cast a spell on you. 

  In many modern games, you rain death upon your enemies; how refreshing, then, that your main task 
 in Prince of Persia is to breathe life into a darkening world. That doesn't mean that the forces 
 of evil aren't on your tail in this open-world platformer, but the most indelible moments of this 
 enchanting journey are uplifting, rather than destructive. Similarly, the latest iteration in this 
 long-running franchise is a rejuvenation for the series, and it's an ambitious one, offering up 
 a new titular prince and casting certain game traditions aside in favor of player immersion. And 
 for the most part it succeeds, eliminating illusion-breaking mechanics like game-over screens and 
 long loading times in the process. This re-imagining comes with a few caveats, however, and if 
 you're a longtime series fan, you'll quickly discover -- and possibly resent -- that Prince of Persia 
 is, far and away, the easiest game in the series. But if you can clear your mind and let the game's 
 magic wash over you, its easygoing joy and visual beauty will charm you into forgiving a sprinkling 
 of flaws.  

           Elika grows on the prince -- and she'll grow on you.      

  In some ways, Prince of Persia represents a return to Sands of Time's storybook vibe, which had 
 been somewhat lost in that game's two sequels. Yet our new hero isn't exactly Prince Charming, 
 but rather a wisecracking nomad interested only in his donkey (named Farah, in one of several nods 
 to previous games) and the riches she apparently carries. His royal status is referenced but never 
 fully explored, though his companion Elika is clearly a princess, and as the game progresses, you'll 
 become much more invested in her past than the prince's. Together, they seek to imprison the evil 
 god Ahriman, who has been inexplicably set free by Elika's own father. To do so, they must restore 
 a series of fertile grounds to their former fecund glory, thereby banishing the inky black corruption 
 that has enveloped the land. Storytelling isn't the game's strong suit, and the dismissive, often 
 unlikeable prince is hardly beguiling, a poor fit for the captivating journey ahead. Thankfully, 
 Elika exudes enough charm for the both of them, and the relationship they slowly forge lends plenty 
 of emotional impact to the game's final moments.  

  This relationship enriches the very core of the experience, given that Elika is not your standard 
 game sidekick. She isn't just a helpless companion, but an important part of a number of gameplay 
 mechanics. As the prince, you will pull off moves familiar to franchise fans: jumping, climbing, 
 scaling, and wallrunning among them. There are also a few new acrobatics to play with, such as 
 the aptly named roofrun, where the prince scuttles along the roof in a vaguely simian manner. But 
 if the moves are familiar, Elika's presence enriches and enhances them. She will jump on your back 
 as you scale across vines, reach for your helping hand as you climb, and perform an elegant pas 
 de deux with you when you need to pass her on a narrow beam. In some ways, this relationship recalls 
 that of Ico and Yorda in 2001's ICO.  

  While in ICO Yorda was totally dependent on her companion, here Elika is far more helpful to the 
 prince than he is to her. She is, in fact, your constant savior, because she will not, and cannot, 
 allow you to die. Should you fall, Elika will grab you by the wrist and whisk you to safety -- meaning 
 the last checkpoint. There is a checkpoint at almost every platform, so aside from possibly having 
 to repeat a few seconds of gameplay, there is absolutely no penalty for plummeting to your doom. 
 You will never see the words "game over," and you won't need to save and reload before difficult 
 sequences. Nor will you need to ever puzzle over how to make it from point A to point B: Elika 
 can fire off a magical homing orb that will show you the precise way of getting to your destination. 
 Combined with simple platforming controls that require a minimum of key or button presses, these 
 facets make Prince of Persia one of the easiest games you'll play all year.  

           En garde!      

  This ease of use makes each individual action seem relatively meaningless 
 as you string moves together. For many, this will translate to a diminished feeling of reward; 
 aside from a few exceptions, there is no sequence that feels remotely challenging, certainly not 
 for players familiar with the old-school difficulties wrought by the early games in the series. 
 Yet while the unique satisfaction of overcoming hurdles is missing, it is tempered by other kinds 
 of rewards. The platforming is fluid, and seamlessly chaining a number of moves together is simple 
 but visually appealing, making for some silky-smooth motion that you'll get a kick out of. To get 
 the most out of it, however, you will want to use a controller. While the keyboard controls work 
 surprisingly well for platforming, the numerous quicktime events aren't well suited to a keyboard, 
 and the key prompts are more confusing when you aren't using a gamepad.  

  As you progress through the game and explore some of the more intricate environments, you'll find 
 some truly impressive level design. Each area flows organically into the next, and while the overall 
 design appears a bit more synthetic than it did in Assassin's Creed, platform placement and other 
 architectural features don't seem overtly artificial. This becomes even more apparent when you 
 begin to unlock Elika's various powers -- though calling them powers is a bit of a stretch. As you 
 unlock new explorable areas by collecting glowing orbs called light seeds, you will be able to 
 utilize the various colored plates that dot walls and ceilings. There are four types of plates, 
 and each kind initiates a high-flying feat. Red and blue plates are functionally the same (though 
 visually unique) , propelling you automatically toward the next plate or platform. Green plates 
 turn you into a sort of Persian Spider-Man, causing you to quickly scale up walls and ceilings 
 while avoiding obstacles. Finally, yellow plates initiate on-rails flight sequences that give you 
 limited room to maneuver around obstructions, sort of like a 3D version of Nights Into Dreams, 
 the Saturn platformer. Many of the sequences combining plate jumps and standard platforming are 
 exhilarating, and the manner in which some of them utilize all three dimensions make the level 
 design all the more impressive. And amazingly, the camera is rarely a liability, which is quite 
 an achievement. Unfortunately, the flying initiated by leaping from yellow plates is a clear weakness. 
 The constant camera movement and overwhelming visual effect used here make for a few annoying sections, 
 and it is never clear whether you need to go left or right, up or down to avoid certain objects. 
 Given that most of the plate-initiated bits are terrific fun, it's a shame these particular flights 
 of fancy were so poorly crafted.  

  There is some combat, and while it's hardly Prince of Persia's focus, it looks mightily spectacular. 
 You fight only a single enemy at a time, including the four main bosses, which you'll take on multiple 
 times. Battles are on the simple side: you have four main attacks -- sword, gauntlet, Elika's magic, 
 and acrobatic vault -- that you can string into various combos. Enemies can change states, making 
 certain attacks ineffective, and there are some other occasional twists. Yet like the platforming, 
 it is on the easy side; even if Elika is bound by corrupted tentacles or rendered unconscious, 
 she's always there to pluck you from death's cold embrace should you miss an important quicktime 
 event (of which there are many) . But battles are still uniquely satisfying and look fantastic. 
 The prince throws Elika into the air with ease, stringing throws, slices, and magic attacks together 
 as the camera zooms in and out to showcase the slashes and backflips. The stringent enemy-focused 
 camera and odd scuttling motions of the prince feel confining but work just fine in most of these 
 battles, though they're a bit less successful during certain boss fights that require some environmental 
 manipulation.  

           This high-flying combo is one of many visual treats.      

  Combat's not the only thing that looks spectacular. Prince of Persia is beautiful to look at, thanks 
 to vibrant cel-shading and some sumptuous environments. Tendrils of corruption reach toward you 
 as you navigate the cold, colorless caverns of infertile regions. The contrast between these areas 
 and the beautifully lit vistas and thriving vegetation of healed locales is palpable, and the transformation 
 of a fertile ground from darkness to light may remind you of similarly impressive moments in Okami. 
 There are a few rough spots here and there, in the way of glitched animations and tiny frame rate 
 stutters, but they barely detract from the lovely visual design. While there are some minor differences, 
 all three versions look great and well represent the capabilities of their respective platforms. 
 And all three feature the same lovely ambient music, which sounds more Persian than the very American-sounding 
 prince.  

  Most will be able to finish Prince of Persia in around a dozen hours, though if you want to collect 
 every scattered light seed and avoid quick travel (you can teleport from one healed ground to another 
 instantly) , you could add a few more hours to the total. But while a few unlockable skins may not 
 seem like enough reason to return, this game is so enjoyable and delightful that you may want to 
 return to it as you would return to a favorite fantasy novel or film. While its lack of challenge 
 may lull fans, its ease of use will delight newcomers and draw in anyone who appreciates a touch 
 of magic.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (119 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: gamingprincess
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 4, 2009 6:38 pm PT
Review:  i found this pop to be extremely light hearted. they developed a very handsome and likeable prince 
 with a sence of humor. His way about himself and his side kick the princess, the new and improved 
 princess are an awsome team. Your goal is to restore a dead kingdome to Fertal and healthy land 
 So an evil Source cannot take total control. you move totally with the help of the princess and 
 her powers. Which you earn after saving the land killing or displacing some Really nasty foe. They 
 are not to easy to remove. timing in this pop is as like the others. however. you CANNOT die. Each 
 time you make a missstep or a bad move or get badly hurt in a fight Your pincess saves you and 
 you get to redo it all over again. a Great feature as its a learning curve to get to most of your 
 locations and she also has a wonderful ability of helping you sort of fly to a pole or ledge just 
 out of reach. Very handy. there are multicolored power plates scattered on each level and you use 
 them to Fly to next location or power seed. the power seed is needed to keep your pincess alive 
 and healty so you stay healthy. Its a real eye candy game. The prince has many things to say about 
 his problems and the dialoge between the two And her infected Father is genus. i hope there is 
 a sequal. seeing the end im pretty sure if not hoping there will be one. Oh, when the credits role 
 dont stop playing. YOUR not done with it just yet. block buster end. pretty, fun, lighthearted, 
 and dangerous. great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jogeoluz
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 2, 2009 5:13 pm PT
Review:  After the Prince of Persia trilogy, Ubisoft has decided to make dramatic changes to the series. 
 Whether you like the changes will depend on your taste. The first noticeable change is in the visual 
 graphics, as Prince of Persia looks more cel-shaded. The second noticeable change is the addition 
 of Princess Elika, an NPC that the Prince runs into at the beginning of the story. The third and 
 perhaps riskiest change is the fact that the Prince cannot die. Elika will always save the Prince 
 for any misstep in their adventures.
  The story begins with the Prince running into Elika at the very beginning. She explains that Ahriman, 
 the God of Darkness, has corrupted various regions and needs the Prince's helps. He agrees to help 
 the Princess. The basic premise of the story is that there is a battle between Ahriman and Ormazd, 
 the God of Light. You will soon find out that Elika is not just another NPC: she becomes a vital 
 part of the story and gameplay.
  Elika is necessary because some of the Prince's acrobatic moves are not enough to cross wide gaps. 
 When the Prince jumps, you can press a key to call Elika to give the Prince the extra push he needs 
 to reach the other side of the platform or reach a wall for a wall-run. Elika is vital in combat 
 because she uses her magical powers to help you defeat enemies and bosses. 
  There are four different regions for Elika to heal from corruption. As you go through each land 
 in the region, you must use the right acrobatic moves such as jumping and wall-running to reach 
 the boss that inhabits the region. The boss battles can become a little repetitive after fighting 
 the same boss many times, but the monotony is cut down if you do not visit the regions in a particular 
 order. It is good that you can go from one region to another without having to complete a particular 
 region. The battles with generic enemies, however, do become repetitive after a while since the 
 enemies all look the same. The acrobatic moves by both the Prince and Elika are well choreographed. 
 Elika's A. I. is virtually perfect, quite an achievement for an NPC in a video game. Elika is never 
 a hindrance from start to finish. The combat is very graceful, as you and Elika can perform a variety 
 of combos. The bosses have a variety of combos of their own and you must know each boss' strengths 
 and weakness in order to prevail. Being defeated by a boss will result in Elika saving you, but 
 the boss will regain lost health. The fact that the Prince cannot die reduces frustrations and 
 long load times. Therefore, I do not consider the Prince not dying a liability.
  After healing a land, there are light seeds scattered all over it. You must pick up light seeds 
 in order to acquire Ormazd's powers I n the form of power plates. The power plates allow you to 
 reach otherwise unreachable places. The red power plates allow you to bounce around like a pinball. 
 The green power plates allow you to run up the walls like Spider Man. The yellow power plates allow 
 you to fly like you have wings and the blue power plates make you and Elika fly in an arc to reach 
 a predetermined destination. All power plates are fun to use and the high-flying looks cool.
  The problem I found with the story is that it becomes more about Elika than the Prince. Elika tells 
 her side of the story and makes you care a lot. The Prince is not exactly Prince Charming and he 
 is a wisecracking, sometimes cynical, character with muscles and an American accent. The story 
 would have been better if more about the Prince's story had been revealed.
  There were minor technical problems that occurred occasionally. There were momentary freezes while 
 moving the Prince, but I was able to move. However, sometimes the freezes forced me to restart 
 my computer. This happened only a few times and is not a major complaint. I just prefer not to 
 have this problem at all.
  I believe that the Prince of Persia's new beginning is a positive one. Elika is a very pleasant 
 addition to the franchise and she should be included in future iterations of Prince of Persia. 
 If they can add more of the story in relation to the titular Prince and make him more desirable 
 in personality, Prince of Persia has a promising future in its hands.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dovetailed
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 3, 2009 11:40 am PT
Review:  Legend tells that when Alexander the Great entered Phrygia, a tiny province in the vast empire 
 of Persia, he encountered The Gordian Knot; a knot of such staggering complexity that it was said 
 to be unsolvable. Alexander, however, reached his own solution by taking his sword and rather brashly 
 cutting the poor knot in half. 
  
  Now, you are probably wondering what possible connection (aside from the tenuous Persia link) that 
 story could have to do with Ubisoft's latest outing for the Prince of Persia series. Well, like 
 The Gordian Knot, Jordan Mechner's original Prince of Persia was really, really hard; it was a 
 style of design that understood the relish there is to be found in adversity and the longevity 
 it can impart. More than once I found myself cursing Mechner's name, but all was forgiven for the 
 satisfaction of completion. Now, though, the gaming market has changed and with this change difficult 
 games have lost traction with their public; Ubisoft's most recent reboot adopts the Alexandrian 
 solution to this problem and in a headlong fashion demolishes what challenge there was left in 
 the series. 
  
  This has several key effects on the gameplay: For starters the game is short and shallow, even 
 with the one and only optional 'side-quest' (essentially a game of find and seek with a thousand 
 pesky balls of light) the game is unlikely to take anyone more than twenty-five hours from start 
 to finish, and whilst there is an element of choice and non-linearity to your travels there really 
 aren't all that many places to go. Still, it's not all bad news, the relative simplicity of most 
 of the jump puzzles allows for a spectacular fluidity of motion that would be scuppered by the 
 hindrances and tribulations of yore. This fluidity, which was developed with impressive motion 
 capture technology, is more polished than most young men's helmets and will definitely evoke the 
 primal pleasure of running up things and jumping across stuff for most.
  
  Putting aside the difficulty (or lack thereof) issue for now, it is not hard to see what the developers 
 were aiming for - flair, beauty and ambience - and on all fronts the game scores highly; the cel-shading 
 is somehow cleaner and crisper than in other titles, and it still pulls that old trick of filling 
 the screen with more colour than your eyes know what to do with. This allows the landscapes to 
 be vivid and beautiful, and the game pulls no punches when it comes to showing itself off with 
 breathtaking vistas. The real coup de grace for the ambience though, is the musical accompaniment 
 which summons urgency, trepidation and wonderment with surgical precision. 
  
  The plot of PoP is pretty straightforward; sure, there was an attempt at a twist in there and the 
 ending is pretty unusual, but at its core the story is about an imprisoned God of Darkness, called 
 Ahriman, who wants out. The 'Prince', who isn't actually a prince at all, falls victim (as so many 
 protagonist do) to fate and the Forces of Light, who inconsiderately throw him into the world of 
 a young princess named Elika. Elika, one of the last few protectors of the deific prison, is attempting 
 thwart our nemesis' escape and our hero, for lack of anything better to do, tags along.
  
  To achieve Elika's objective both her and the Prince must travel to and free a number of surrounding 
 lands from Ahriman's 'Corruption' - an inky black substance that suppresses the life and goodness 
 of these otherwise 'fertile grounds'. Suffice to say that pulling this off will require a heap 
 of acrobatic dexterity and the fending off of Ahriman's vile minions. Visually the process of converting 
 the land back to the light couldn't have been done better; the sharp contrast between the washed 
 out hues of corrupted realms and the bright vividness of those liberated makes for delicious eye 
 candy and the subtle mood change of the music only enforces this. As an activity, though, clearing 
 the oil spill-esque corruption can get a bit repetitive - fortunately there is some variation to 
 be found throughout; as the Prince progresses he will unlock new powers that open up new styles 
 of mini-game like platforming puzzles, allowing him to reach new areas and offering a change of 
 pace from his standard wall-running tricks.
  
  The developers clearly wanted to take a different tack to the Sands of Time series when it comes 
 to our leading man; from the changes that were made I can only suppose that the 'whiney emo kid' 
 criticism finally got to them. For the new Prince inspiration seems to have been drawn heavily 
 from the Han Solo/Malcolm Reynolds School of character development, where jokey cockiness and wrong-side-of-the-tracks 
 backstory are the orders of the day (both of which Ubisoft pushes heavily, just to make sure we 
 get the point) . This archetype dodges the somewhat more pass dark and brooding or squeaky clean 
 heroes we gamers have been so routinely lumped with, and in that sense the new Prince makes a refreshing 
 change. Unfortunately, however, he falls somewhat short of Mr. Solo - the Prince's voice and character 
 model leaves him seeming slightly inexperienced and young, which leaves his cockiness coming across 
 as more arrogant and brash than it should. 
  
  So, as you may have noticed, I have not yet really made any comments about the combat or fight 
 sequences in the game and for those that played the Sands of Time series it is hard to dress these 
 aspects up as anything more than a disappointment. For a start, compared to its predecessor, there 
 is far less combat, far fewer varieties of enemies and considerably less challenge in any given 
 battle. Also, for a game that otherwise seems to pride itself on the seamlessness of its action, 
 fights often seem disjointed and frustrating when all you really want to do is pull off some flashy 
 looking combos. This frustration is partly due to how easy it can be to accidentally kill an enemy 
 when you wanted to have more fun with them, partly due to the irritating, tapaholic quick-time 
 events and partly due to the silly block and parry mechanics that can make fights into a wait and 
 slash-fest. However, when the combat system comes good and the game permits you to witness some 
 of the more impressive Prince/Elika tag team moves the effects are spectacular, devastating aerial 
 manoeuvres that look nothing short of awesome.
  
  Prince of Persia is beautiful, and here I am not talking about the thin veneer of being graphically 
 up to date, which it certainly is, but rather that the aesthetic of the whole game has been considered 
 carefully and made consistent throughout. There is, in terms of visuals and animation, an attention 
 to detail and unique stylistic panache that borders on sublime. Unfortunately, this beauty is somewhat 
 let down by the game's lack of length, the slightly broken combat mechanics and a mildly annoying 
 protagonist. For all of its failings, though, Prince of Persia is almost impossible not to enjoy 
 - short and sweet, it is an experience that may not last for long and that has limited scope for 
 replay, but one that everyone should have at least once. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nomailx
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 23, 2009 7:10 pm PT
Review:  Forget the old PoP Series. Ubisoft took another pesrpective, with great ideas, very badly transpcripted.
 
  
  The Good:
  
  - The new Prince is more fun, talkative, and knows why he is there.
  
  - Elika helping the prince, gives a new dimension and a brand new step in Computer Gaming:
 
  
  Dying, reloading, dying reloading in any games, always somehow killed the story and image of the 
 game. + having to load, and wait for checkpoints all the time is very lame in nowadays gaming.
 
  
  Ubisoft found a perfect solution, to render credible a deadly step, by making Elika saving you 
 automatically each time right before you die, and transporting you at the latest safe platform 
 you were. So it feels like any platform in the game you are on, is a kind of checkpoint. Really 
 clever.
  
  When Fighting Monster, instead of you dying stupidly, and reloading, and waiting for the 23rd time 
 a demo you are sick watching, Ubisoft prefers to make Elika save you right before a deadly strike 
 on you. Where is the punishment? well the Monster's health is refilled, so you will have to start 
 over again. Same punishment as reloading a last save game or restarting at a checkpoint, without 
 having to wait or replay the 1212 time the same sequence.
  
  This system SHOULD be used in all games.
  
  - Graphics are Stunning. You really feel like in 
 a mystic tale of the 1001 night tales.
  
  - Music and sounds, effects are very precise, and clear. Excellent.
  
  - Combat and combo moves 
 are satisfying and thrilling.
  
  - Animations of character, are excellent. Every move is perfectly coordinated, + syncrhonized moves 
 with Elika are very well put.
  
  
  The Bad
  
  - The game is dull, and early in the game, you will feel that there is no challenge.
  
  - Platform 
 elements are easy and not really integrated with the background. So you always feel like you are 
 in a Amusement Park having fun with a girl who is following you, than on adventure trying to safe 
 the world.
  
  - The 4 Power plaques sequences, (specially flying and wall climbing) make you feel more like you 
 play a Mario Bros game or Hugo Game, than a Prince of Persia.
  
  - The game is Easy. So the super new Idea of a "no dying policy" is sabotaged by the game being 
 to easy. 3 of the same combo will be able to destroy the last Boss. This non dying policy would 
 have shined much better in the first PoP and its 2 sequels. Other company and players, and specially 
 reviewers may miss this huge step in Computer Gaming, just because ubisoft couldnt present it in 
 a too easy game.
  
  - The story is too simple, and has no real twist. Even the mistery behind elika, once solved, doesn't 
 surprise you.
  
  - No ennemies. It looks like they wrapped up right before adding more foes, or monsters to kill. 
 too few combat challenges. And just because the combats are easy, and 1 super combo can take all 
 your foes down makes the combats in this game non interesting. Super combo: 3 sword attack, Elika, 
 prince jump, elika, elika, prince grab, prince jump, elika elika. I finished all the monsters easily, 
 with this combo I found early in the game, making me not even check the other combos.
  
  - Environments not realistic. Looks like people never walked in the city you go adventuring. I 
 guess they were all jumping on the roofs, and running on walls, climbing here and there. Seeing 
 no normal common floor takes the thrill of your acrobatic moves. You never have the sensation of 
 being in danger of falling, or making dangerous moves in great height. It looks more like there 
 is no floor, so it's ok where you are. its normal. Forget the thrill of climbing the Babel tower 
 in The Two Thrones.
  
  - No real Puzzles. No challenging puzzles. All puzzles have a "try and see" policy. You feel more 
 relieved than satisfied when solving them.
  
  - Automatic Gameplay. The platform section of the game is almost automatic. You press jump, the 
 prince jumps and makes automatically an extra jump. but most of the platform in the game is challenging 
 just because an extra jump is needed! You press jump near a wall, the prince automatically runs 
 on that wall when he jumps on it. But again the most difficult part should have been there! The 
 Player should have to coordinate the momentum of jumping and starting to run on a wall! that's 
 what this game is about!!?!!
  
  - Clearly this game aimed younger players, for its look, the Amusement park feel, and its easy 
 game play.
  
  
  Well that said, the game is innovative, so it worth a try. Professional game designer should check 
 it specially for this new "no dying" system, and also to take a great lesson from this game which 
 could also been called "how to spoil good ideas, and great artwork by sacrificing key elements 
 for dummies". 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kevin091
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 20, 2009 3:49 am PT
Review:  I discovered Sands of Time probably 3 or 4 years ago, and I immediately liked the platforming, 
 the gameplay, the rewinding, the story- I became a huge fan. While Warrior Within wasn't as engrossing 
 as its predecessor, it came with a dual-weapon combat system that was fun to implement, and Two 
 Thrones tried to fuse both worlds of Sands and Warrior Within with limited success.
  
  Last year's re-imagining changes almost all of that.
  
  Now starring a new face for the Prince 
 character (the man's name is never revealed) , Prince of Persia's protagonist has a radically different 
 flavor from the usual- the man's a decidedly unlikable wisecracking jackass with an American accent- 
 and he looks like a really poor man. So it goes like this: the Prince is just minding his own business 
 leading his donkey Farah (one of the several nods to older games) to who-knows-where, then he sees 
 a girl named Elika running from a few imperial guards. The Prince decides to help Elika and he 
 gets into a sticky situation involving the prevention of the release of an evil God and ridding 
 the world of corruption.
  
  While the game retains the core elements of the franchise- platforming, combat, puzzle solving- 
 the game's implementation of it is very much different, and this change can pretty much be attributed 
 to the fact that it also uses a modified version of the engine behind another famous Ubisoft Montreal 
 game Assassin's Creed. This engine also enables the game to let the player pick whatever mission 
 they want for less linear gameplay, oh and everything you see, you can touch and reach, seriously.
 
  
  Instead of the dual-sword combat and multiple enemies, the game gives you intense one-on-one battles 
 and a fascinatingly fun combo system, and instead of the ability to rewind time, your companion 
 will be able to save you- always- as the game knows not the meaning of "Game Over". In short, you 
 can't die- ever.
  
  Platforming is widely the same though, with a few more moves here and there. For example, Elika 
 is able to extend the length of your jump, and you can also climb on the roof as well as use your 
 arm to slide down on virtually any flat wall.
  
  The game's presentation is top-notch, and eye-pleasing as it looks like a storybook come to life. 
 Nice little touches like the black goo called corruption that extends its reach to you as well 
 as the glimmering plates of magic lend to its fantasy ambience- it just looks beautiful.
  
  The soundtrack isn't always particularly memorable, save a few ditties, and it contains an appropriate 
 Middle-Eastern flavor to it.
  
  Unfortunately, the Prince itself is annoying and downright unlikable due to his inappropriate sarcasm. 
 Perhaps the storywriters intended the Prince to be constant comic relief- that all of this is just 
 a dream-like game- but they obviously failed.
  
  Despite the fact that the man doesn't divulge much of his personality, the gamer will want to learn 
 more about the subdued Elika since she's a hell of a lot more mysterious than the Prince. Fortunately, 
 the voice actors (while not spectacular, but not bad either) and the fluid animation help in giving 
 the two characters a bit of chemistry that makes the whole experience a lot more tolerable. Still, 
 they're wasted because of how atrociously-written most of the lines are. I mean, the story itself 
 is a wonderful one, but the lines of the characters are just stupid. Maybe the developers knew 
 this, so they made most of the dialogue optional- meaning that if the gamer want the two to talk, 
 he'll have to press a button first before they actually talk. Yes, there are some tidbits that 
 contribute to character development in these optional talks, but most of the time, you're not missing 
 out on much.
  
  Fortunately, the barebones mandatory dialogue is okay and it helps progress the story.
  
  Platforming- 
 which forms the bulk of the game- is very fun, but I'll have to admit my having a beef with the 
 controls. Sometimes, I want the Prince to go to a certain direction, but the game gets me to another. 
 Or when the camera shifts perspective, the Prince's direction also changes and I usually fall down 
 a simple gap. I would really sometimes find myself wrestling with the controls, and occasionally 
 they even don't respond at all.
  
  Despite the fact that fights are only done in a one-on-one style reminiscent to that of the original 
 game of the same title, the combo system incorporated into the game gives combat a lot of variety. 
 You can chain several exciting combos that deal a lot of damage, and here's a little taste: you 
 can toss the enemy into the air, summon Elika to attack two times, let the Prince attack and let 
 the enemy sustain its floatation mid-air and make the final blow.
  
  You know what, I just love it.
  
  But the game shows its "intended-for-console" colors due 
 to the fact that quick-time events are a bit hard to do in a PC. Of course, it's all easier on 
 the 360, but in the PC, you'll have to memorize all the symbols and stuff that the game throws 
 at you. It's a shame, really, because quick-time events are important in keeping the exciting flow 
 of the fights, and really, failing to be able to execute these will not only bring you down (but 
 not make you die, because you don't die in this game at all) , but also let the enemy regenerating 
 life unnecessarily.
  
  Fortunately, most elements in the game will have a text tutorial that tells you the appropriate 
 keyboard button to press, though.
  
  The experience ends in a particularly mixed note- as in people will either love it, or hate it. 
 Personally I'm okay with it since I'm actually asking for more in the form of a sequel, but some 
 will note the context of the ending- it's like a waste of all the player's efforts- but hey, it 
 is rather unexpected and opens possibilities of a sequel (but Ubisoft ended up creating downloadable 
 content that screws PC gamers like me which is lame) .
  
  I'm still asking for more, because the game was rather short and actually kinda easy. The easy-ness 
 will depend on some, but some hardcore gamers will be put off by the difficulty (or lack thereof) .
 
  
  There is a little bit of replay value in this game, and it exists within the form of collection 
 of so-called light seeds. In the PC version, particularly, you can unlock several "skins". Aside 
 from that, well, you can explore the huge worlds, I guess.
  
  Overall, Prince of Persia is a great platformer with some minor kinks which are eclipsed by the 
 beautiful, immersive environment and ambience. Some will be put off by its length and lack of difficulty 
 though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vufor
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 19, 2009 2:57 pm PT
Review:  At the start there was something familiar with this game, but did not queit get it until the story 
 unrevealed. And.. suddenly remembered the the great tale of "Avesta" written by ancient azeri-persian 
 writer Zaratustra. God of light Ormaz against the god of darkness Ahriman!
  
  I have read that story at secondary school and did not really think that some day will play the 
 game based on this story, plain fun.
  
  Right about the game: Some things different totaly different graphical or shall we say artistic 
 design of the game was really enjoyable and also gave the game different essense.
  
  Fantastic game play with numerious fast paced acrobatics and fighting stunts. New charcter helping 
 the prince made a her new debut in the series with great swing and glory.
  
  And of course waiting for the DLC to come out in order to see the vague ending of the game... hope 
 it will light the path for the new adventures rather than putting dot for the end of the game...
 
  
  
  I am more than sure that PoP lovers will enjoy this game and pretty sure it will be long remembered 
 for times.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: A-plus-
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 18, 2009 3:36 pm PT
Review:  The game was a total surprise to me, I found out about it by pure chance and came to play it because 
 I lacked anything else to do. It took me 18 hours to play it from A to Z for the first time, and 
 I did it continuously from evening to the next noon The graphic of the game is high-end 
 although the graphic demand is reasonable. The fun this game generates is at least awesome due 
 to the combination of a good storyline, perfect sound, amazing scenery and, last but not least, 
 easy to play commands with some astounding results during the battle scenes. The game becomes quite 
 uniform and tends to get boring but this is something I felt for all Prince of Persia 
 releases. The biggest disadvantage is the reduced play duration and the fact that after 1 minute 
 of fighting any boss at any difficulty you can anticipate all his moves.
  If you are a fan of the Prince of Persia titles then this game is a must for you 
 and can become a disappointment but for the casual player it is quite the pleasant surprise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HarrisDo
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 18, 2009 9:30 am PT
Review:  This new prince of persia game, isn't as the other games in the serie. It's an alternative game 
 with a lot more effects and awkward graphics.
  
  It is sure that the game will appeal to you especialy in the firts stages. However when you reach 
 50% of the game you will understand that there isn't a lot of fun doing the same things again and 
 again and that is when the drawbacks start.
  
  Let's start from the battles. Although there is a wide variety of combos to do the battles are weak 
 and very little. You get annoyed fighting with the same enemies all the time. Moreover the game is 
 extremely EASY. You never die, as Elica (your partner in the game) saves you always.
  
  All the above doesn't make POP a bad game. It is a worth playing game that is reffered mainly to 
 the people who search something different. The whole game is a succeed. The enviroment is excellent 
 designed. Some moment are magical. Although the graphics are like cartoons they are a result of a 
 lot of work and that can be seen. The acrobatic moves are wonderful and there are also some very 
 smart puzzles. The plot is very good and it sometimes reminds you ''the sands of time''.
  
  This game is in my point of view wonderfull despite some dissadvantages. A game that will be played 
 with a smile... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slim_shady2142
Rating: 4.5
Date: Mar 18, 2009 8:33 am PT
Review:  it was the most disappointung prince of persia. it was just cartoon version of assassins cred but 
 with one diffrences, prince of persia was so easy. the game wasn't exciting. i was excited by the 
 last ones and played theme for day and weeks but now i just didn'n played it for a week because 
 when i'm playing a game i can't stop playing and i feel i need to play but in prince of persia 
 (2008) i didn't any feelling like before and another point is that there wasn't any thing that 
 belongs to persia there was big whales insted of cupolas and prince didn't like a prince of persia. the 
 game was boring because there was only a few enemies on the way and all of them were the same. the 
 only good thing about the was elika the girl that was your attendant. she helps you all the way 
 and doesn't let you die. she helps you in jumping and fighting whit the enemies. i adjurate ubisoft 
 to make next prince of persia much more exciting and intresting. thanks to gamespot group. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: space_loner
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 13, 2009 8:02 pm PT
Review:  There are a lot of good things to be said about Prince of Persia. First of all the game looks fantastic, 
 especially the beautiful vistas littered across the map, showing vivid details of both magnificent 
 jungles and gorgeous cityscape. Some of the prince's own more elaborate combos also look appropriately 
 impressive. Overall combat is a lot of fun, if a bit on the easy side.
  
  Unfortunately, Prince of Persia features one major annoyance which I think should never, ever be 
 done in any game: it forces the player to backtrack. Not just once or twice either, to get from 
 one place to the next you'll have to go through the same routes over and over again. Sure it is 
 a lot of fun making all those jumps, climbs, and wallruns... but even then it quickly gets old.
 
  
  To further reinforce the backtracking theme, Ubisoft has placed a number of light seeds strewn 
 across the map which you must collect to unlock new abilities. For someone like me who just tries 
 to get from one place to the next as fast as possible, having to locate these light seeds proves 
 to be a great hassle. I played the game until the point where I had to unlock a second ability, 
 and I realized I didn't even have half the required light speed. That's when I just gave up on 
 the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mulder2683
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 13, 2009 4:52 am PT
Review:  Continuing on from the Sands of Time, Prince of Persia keeps on bringing new meaning to the words 
 adventure and storyline. The game was definitely worth the wait. No doubt that we will all be waiting 
 for a next adventure. It's really brilliant how Ubisoft keeps us amazed with each adventure. The 
 scenery is the best I have seen so far in a game. The dialogs between the Prince and the Princess 
 is just smart as the game itself. The new fighting techniques are outstanding. The use of the Princess 
 in the combats is just right. I would have preferred if the Prince himself had some more fighting 
 techniques, but nonetheless the fights are really enjoyable. What really amazed me in this game 
 is the soundtrack. It's simply mind blowing. The game is a little long and you have to play each 
 level more than once, but this exactly what is needed. Ubisoft you did it once again! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lassiter
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 8, 2009 3:46 am PT
Review:  I should state up front that I am not a regular Prince of Persia gamer. I briefly flirted with 
 the old classic on the 386s (the fact that is was the only all-colour game together with Dangerous 
 Dave that I had access to was the main reason) , but to be honest I found that the basic PoP was 
 too hard for my liking. However, I got hooked again by Prince of Persia: Sands of Time and it's 
 story-telling style. I also liked Ubisoft's Assassin's Creed very very much so I thought I would 
 give the latest Prince of Persia a try.
  
  First impressions completely bowled me over - the visuals were slick, the animations were incredibly 
 smooth (I have an AMD X2 6000+, 3 GB RAM and an 8800 GT, so reasonably up-to-spec) and the new 
 art style is especially enchanting. After I unlocked each art slideshow in the "extras", I used 
 to sit through the whole slideshow (sometimes twice) and just gawp at the pictures and listen to 
 the music. The music is another fantastic thing about this game - cheerful yet haunting, I'd find 
 myself humming it quietly at various points during the day even when not even thinking about the 
 game or my computer.
  
  The actual gameplay, though, I found to be not so overwhelming. In the beginning it was great, 
 as I discovered how to execute the various moves and jumps and wallruns, etc. So too the first 
 few combat sequences. But then it started to get a bit repetitive. And I felt a bit insulted by 
 how the difficulty was "raised" in the battles with the Warrior. Button-mashing is NOT my idea 
 of a refreshing challenge. And I don't believe the "console gamer design" excuse. Come on. Console 
 gamers played Oblivion, too, and loved it just as much - so blind button-mashing isn't necessarily 
 what they are looking for, either.
  
  Overall, I enjoyed it very much for the first 10 hours, and I especially liked the little gems 
 they included as sequences for how you learn to use each Power of Ormazd that you unlock. It was 
 a thrill to unlock each successive once to find out how they would work. But once I had unlocked 
 all 4, and collecting light seeds didn't carry as much significance (no feeling of satisfaction 
 on executing that difficult move to capture that trickily-placed light seed, one step closer to 
 the next power) , I found it a bit of a drag to carry on just to beat the remaining big baddies 
 and finish the story. Also I found the ending a bit weak (not the bit about collecting the last 
 light seed - don't want to say more for fear of a spoiler - but not the bit about the last light 
 seed) . I mean dealing with the last 2 baddies in the game (the dad and the dark god) . That could 
 have been fleshed out a bit more and done better.
  
  Overall, I gave it an 8.5 to GameSpot's 8.0, but that's just because I loved the artwork so much 
 and went back to gawping at it after I finished the game. Also, there was a hint of maturity about 
 the choice given to you at the end of the game regarding the last light seed. Just a hint, though. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sweaty113
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 7, 2009 2:19 pm PT
Review:  One of my favourite games, I would play it over and over! the way you fight during the game CAN 
 get kinda repetative it depends, there is quite a large nuber of combo's you can do and you can 
 vary them to different techniques. It can sometimes jsut turn extremely hard. The boss battles 
 are very exiting and well thought out, i think that the game was quite short, there was a lot of 
 places to go, and 'light seeds' to collect it was fun collecting them all, but that got very repetative, 
 very boring, very fast. The game also has a erm... .... unique? storyline that you can cling to 
 and if you are a certain type of person you may even cry! This game gets you on the edge of your 
 seat with an action packed fighting adventure. I would definately go out of my way to buy a 'Prince 
 of Persia 2', or whatever Ubisoft decide to call it. If i could sum up this game in 1 word it would 
 have to be, epic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: midnight445
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 7, 2009 7:21 am PT
Review:  I just finished the new POP game and I have to tell you that is pure ART! The story is on a much 
 higher level... no more back time, no more mass enemy killing - just climbing, healing the plates 
 and killing Bosses - The Hunter, Alchemist, Concubine, The Warrior, The King and of course The God 
 of Darkness, Ahriman! The dialogs between the prince and Elika where very funny kind of... urban-futurish 
 :D but still funny! Its nice to see how a relationship grows between them how you progress in the 
 game! The game is very easy and the gameplay is simple. The storyline for the fans is quite interesting 
 and relaxing, the sounds are new, the ears like it! The Graphics are eye candies... very cool!
 
  My final grade for the game is [A]
  Storyline - 10
  Sound - 10
  Gameplay - 9
  Graphics - 10
  ---------------
  I'm waiting for your opinion/review/grade for the game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CyberAltair5
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 6, 2009 7:25 am PT
Review:  Before getting the game I've heard a lot of talk about how the game is gonna suck be it the fact 
 you don't die, the prince doesn't look good, the world doesn't fit with the Prince of Persia theme 
 we're used to or the fact it's just not worth it. Guess they proved them wrong.
  
  Just because you don't die doesn't mean it's not challenging, look at it this way. I play a platform 
 game and die, Checkpoint! I die in PoP, Checkpoint! All their is is that they tell you that you 
 didn't die which is the same thing. Just because you "don't die" doesn't make a difference. The 
 world is really nice and though it may seem complicated and too forced it is a lot of fun. It may 
 be boring after some time to go around but first of all theirs the teleportation which is a quick 
 and nice thing and also the Light Seeds will keep you busy.
  
  The Graphics are a change from the gory dungeons and the apocalyptic theme (if you may say so) 
 that you find in the old games. The cel-shading just makes everything so nice to just stop and 
 look around and just loosen up before going on.
  
  Combat, well many players said it suck and I disagree. I call for one more comparison. In PoP: T2T 
 (again) I just slash the opponent a couple of times and they're done, no challenge whatsoever. 
 Sure the arrow guys made it hard and all but it was like playing another hack and slash game. However 
 in PoP it is really cool and exciting plus the fact that it mimics how an actual battle would look 
 like is absolutely fantastic. It may take some time to beat someone's ass but that's just an excuse 
 made by people who can't figure out how to play or such.
  
  Plot was amazing and certainly different from other PoP games and the end was just kickass and 
 dark like PoP fans always liked it. I don't wanna put any spoilers here so I'll just end it with 
 saying that the plot was well written and a sequel is obvious.
  
  In the end I just want to mention that the game is amazing and you must play it if you're a PoP 
 fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: suratharajan
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 23, 2009 8:44 am PT
Review:  the game starts when the prince gets introduced by the author as always done by the pop series 
 the prince gets even more funnier and stronger too ......... in this game he is given a new power 
 called the gauntlet which helps the prince in some of the acrobatic and fighting techniques ......... 
 in addition to that a multi single player combat system is just awesome and keeps us not boring 
 at any time at all anyways there aren't a lot of enemies to show our combos that prince actually 
 does but we are allowed to fight the four bosses four times for each of them as it gets boring 
 ............. making a way towards the boss is also not so easy ............. we have to collect 
 a lot of light seeds which helps us to open the doors which leads to the boss but getting those 
 seeds are a headache ................... the relationship between the princess and prince gets 
 harder and more and more complicated as the levels go on ............... at last the ending is 
 so frustrating that it makes us think that we have played the game for nothing 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cocodog13
Rating: 4.5
Date: Feb 22, 2009 10:40 am PT
Review:  summary:
  
  freeruning: 6/10 fun with bad cam and annoying controls
  
  combat: 2/10 just plain awful
  
  graphics's: 7/10 nice style but it dosnt look as good as the 
 system reqs suggestst it will.
  
  controls: very poor if you don't have an xbox controllerr
  
  this game is pretty much a cell 
 shaded assassins creed. the assassins creed engine is probably the worth thing a game designer 
 could do and none of the bugs from assassins creed have been fixed. the camera is still awful the 
 controls on pc are still awful only this time you only have the choice of keyboard/mouse or controller, 
 the combat is awful, the sound still doesn't work with my sound card, and it still runs like a 
 pig with no legs on anything except the most hardcore gaming rig.
  
  the freerunning is aright thee princes animations are very fluid and natural looking and its rewarding 
 to get a challenging section just right. freerunning using the keyboard/mouse set-up is however, 
 rather hard. the camera constantly trys to pull round to were the game thinks you want it, which 
 is extremely annoying and completely unnecessary when a mouse is being used to move the camera.
 
  
  there are also a few control bugs with freerunning, for example. you want to perform a wall run 
 so you run toward the wall and jump towards it, but by accident to hit the jump button twice, this 
 will cause the prince to jump into the wall run perfectly but then jump straight back off to his 
 non-death.
  
  this is a major flaw in throughout the whole game. I believe it has to do with the fact that when 
 you initiate anything that isn't basic movement (i. e. just pushing a button to start a quicktime 
 event. this means that once you jump you have no control over the prince anymore and if you push 
 a button while in a quicktime event isn't action isn't ignored its just dellayed until the current 
 quicktime event is over. (continued in combat)
  
  combat: 2/10
  
  combat in the prince of Persia is the worst iv ever experienced in a 3d game (second on my list 
 of bad 3d combat is assassins creed) . fights are pretty much just long tedious quicktime events. 
 you can wave your sword but after the first 2 bosses all enemy's cant pretty much counter your 
 attacks 100% of the time, the game tells you that you can counter the enemies attacks but usually 
 by the time youvseen them move youventerd another quicktime and your unable to use the block button.. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ronygreat
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 22, 2009 4:24 am PT
Review:  When I first heard of this game I got really excited to play another PoP. I was watching news and 
 videos. I was very disappointed to see that the combat system changed, but the graphics was good, 
 After the release got it began to play. I was amazed by the game, Yes They improved the acrobatics, 
 but they made you also immortal. So you can jump of a cliff nothing happens since Elika pulls you 
 back. In the older ones you had to take care about the Prince and watch every of your steps, but 
 now you think: ''If I fall down nothing bad happens since Elika pulls me back, so why should I 
 care about it?,, And the worst of all is the combat system. I must admit that the acrobatics moves 
 are very good here too, but you have to fight only one enemy all the time. If Elika is on your 
 side then why can't tey put much more enemies in the way? I would have been happier to see that 
 we need to kill like 20 enemies not only 1. Here also, you don't have to watch for the prince since 
 he's immortal. You won't die since Elika rescues you all the time. So what Ubisoft made was only 
 getting out the good parts of the game, replace them with bad ones and make a new, very nice looking 
 graphics solution. So don't buy this game ever. Play the old ones since they are more fun and a 
 bit more challenging. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arashcrysis
Rating: 1
Date: Feb 21, 2009 1:29 pm PT
Review:  1. Worst graphic of all if benchmark with POP WW & TTT. What i dislikes the most is the chracters 
 outline graphic that shaded with black lines. Feels is too thick and unreal.
  
  2. Way too easy and no challenge at all cost.
  
  3. Repetitive gameplay and boring. No minions.
 
  
  4. Mild plots and story telling.
  
  5. Lacked of characters development. Lacked of weapons development.
  
  6. Fitting boss is like 
 killing an ant. You won't die and it's too easy.
  
  7. *Personal opinions. Why the game title as Prince as Persia" Whew.... no words.
  
  8. Sound 
 track is the only thing to praise.
  
  Totally a let down. This is the worst ever review i've written. The game theme was not dark and 
 deep as previous POP's which are more heart beatings and the cinematics are much more better.
 
  Credit of POP has been SPOILED. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alexandros_m
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 20, 2009 3:56 am PT
Review:  Prince of Persia (PoP) returns on our monitors in a new design
  , new characters and new story.
  
  Considering how much I enjoyed the past trilogy of PoP especially 
 Warrior Within and The two thrones I was really looking forward for the new.
  I think what I really liked in previous games was the fast action paced moves it offered, blended 
 in a nice story and every time you got past that difficult part how much relieved and satisfied 
 you felt.
  Well in new PoP all this is gone. 
  
  Story: The Dark God Ahriman has been set free under the tree temple and the prince alongside princess 
 have to "heal" several places of the temple from corruption in order to imprison him once again.
 
  The story may sound nice and dark but while playing the game you realize how predictable it is. 
 Basically there are 16 places you have to visit and heal all of them divided in 4 major areas.
 
  Each of these 4 areas has a Boss , that every time that you get to the end of a place belonging 
 to the specific area you fight him again, using almost the same tactics.
  All in all I give story a 5/10 rating
  
  Gameplay: PoP uses a fast combat system that in my 
 opinion is useless in most of the game because each time you engage someone in battle you just 
 have to press 3 buttons at most ,easily synchronised for several times and you have win. Given 
 the fact that you are invincible -yeah you cannot die, not in a battle nor by falling in a cliff!-the 
 battles just get extremely boring, repeating the same tactics over and over again.
  As for the acrobatics in game:
  I read in several articles that this is the game's strongest 
 point. I totally disagree with that. The acrobatics in game have very good animation but thats 
 the end of it. Apart from that ,the acrobatics are RIDICULOUSLY easy to perform , just by pressing 
 one or two buttons in the right timing. Its more like watching a cutscene and you just have to 
 press a button now and then in order to continue.
  So would believe it 4 months earlier- I give gameplay a 5/10 rating.
  
  Graphics: The cartoon 
 design of the game is clean and sharp
  but all in all is very.... childish. I hated the princes face cause it personally reminded me more 
 some dude surfer. Also the design of the places is very unrealistic. You constantly get the feeling 
 that this column was set here or this ring was put there just for you to have something to grab 
 on and not cause this place was sometime a palace. 
  Summarising I'd give graphics a 7/10 rating
  
  So total score is 6.1/10
  with gameplay weight 
 4/10, story weight 3/10 and graphics 3/10.
  I wouldn't recommend the game to someone except a child.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MiragePrince
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 19, 2009 9:12 pm PT
Review:  well a lot of people keep comparing this game to the sands of time trilogy and saying this one 
 sucks but this is a mistake cuz this is a brand new game and no one wants the same game again .
 
  i think it was right from ubisoft to change the style cuz they dont want to repeat themselves.
 
  
  also i keep reading repetitive repetitive man is the game that long to be repetitive?
  
  i liked everything in this game from not dying to the combat system and honestly this game 
 is really unique. have anyone before seen anything like this game? if you have i didnt.
  
  and the guys cursing this game's end although it is another fabilous thing in this game man who 
 would have expected an end like this? elika dying and the prince releasing ahraman to get her back. 
 
  
  in the end i cant say anything but AWESOME
  Thanks For Reading My Review 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ancarius
Rating: 1
Date: Feb 19, 2009 8:52 pm PT
Review:  After a long wait for one the most anticipated and favored games of mine, the hassle with the extremely 
 bad combination of Vista and the game I dove into a 16 hour long caffeine filled journey with the 
 new prince. 
  
  Honestly I think there is more to fear than fear itself. This game is terrifying for no other reason 
 than the fact that it is a mockery of everything good there was in its predecessors. The Ink n' 
 Paper material for the prince and princess was useless. I don't know if it was to cut back on work 
 on modeling or a shabby attempt at minimizing system requirements. The landscape was beautifully 
 done the only problem being that this is not a sequel to Raymon or Harry Potter and the target 
 audience is a bit older than the age-range the developers must have had in mind (around 10-12 or 
 kindergarden) .
  
  The fact that the prince couldn't die was the worst choice possible. It diminishes the whole point 
 of staying alive as well as the relief when the player finally gets ahead. And let's not forget 
 the bugs ranging from NPC malfunctions to the whole level disappearing or events happening out 
 of order.
  
  To top everything off with a grand finale the princess DIES in the end and the only way to bring 
 her back is the selfish act of cutting down the trees you've spent hours to resurrect letting lose 
 the evil you were supposed to have vanquished. Nice job Ubisoft. Really..... a fine example.
  
  So I am proudly setting the record here for myself awarding the first EVER 1 since I became 
 a member. The game deserves it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dark_being
Rating: 4
Date: Feb 12, 2009 3:08 am PT
Review:  The new Prince of Persia features most of what one would expect from a Prince of Persia game. It 
 features a ton of acrobatic moves, which the series is famous for; it has a nice soundtrack that 
 really captures the general feeling of each location; and it has a nameless main character, which 
 for the sake of convenience we shell refer to simply as "Prince". I say "most" because, unlike 
 previous games in the series made by Ubisoft (the Sands of Time trilogy) , this new game isn't very 
 good. You can even go as far as to say that Ubisoft has taken one of its better franchises and 
 removed almost every ounce of fun from it. Well, almost.
  
  Right from the bat, it is easy to see that the developers wanted to take the franchise in a whole 
 new direction. The most noticeable change is in the presentation: out with the linear, oriental 
 urban landscape and in with much simpler, non-linear, organic surroundings, where every location 
 seamlessly merges into the next with hardly any rough edges. Despite that, it is easy to recognize 
 each of the four locations by their own characteristics, and while they are not so different at 
 the beginning, they soon develop their own unique visual style as the game progresses. In fact, 
 the one redeeming quality of Prince of Persia is its graphics. The best way of describing them 
 is by comparison to a water-colour painting; and as such, they feature smooth, almost texture-less 
 backgrounds with points of interest and characters sticking out with a brighter, warmer pallet. 
 Some would dismiss them as being too cartoony, or not realistic enough, but this underappreciated 
 art style makes this game stand out in a sea of blend shades of metal grey and dirt brown.
  
  But even all this visual beauty in Prince of Persia cannot save the two main characters in 
 the game. Both Prince and Elika (especially Elika) are unlikable and charmless, with a tendency 
 of spewing predictable and ridicules dialog lines, that the only good thing about them is that 
 you, as a player, have the choice whether to initiate the conversation in the first place. Sure, 
 you might learn something about the history of the world around you, or even stumble upon a rare 
 emotional moment, but it is never worth the trouble of waiting for Elika to stop talking so Prince 
 can resume his climbing-and-jumping routine. At least the other characters in the game are nice 
 to look at, and most of them are even developed enough to keep you interested in their background 
 story. The four bosses in the game are well designed and really spice up each fight with beautiful 
 visuals and cool moves; it is too bad that neither Prince nor Elika can draw you in as much as 
 the bosses do, since they are the ones who you spend most of the game with.
  
  So if the main characters are not enough to keep an average gamer interested in the new Prince 
 of Persia, then surly the plot is original and exciting enough to hold the player's interest, right? 
 Wrong! The basic notion of Prince of Persia is, well, pretty basic. An evil dark god, called Ahriman 
 is trying to escape its prison, and it is up to Prince to help Elika, a descendant of an ancient 
 people guarding said prison, to prevent the impending apocalypse. There aren't any great revelations 
 or unexpected twists along the way; there are some attempts of shacking up the dust off the storyline, 
 but none of them come close to the mark. To put a long story short: nothing we haven't seen before; 
 and what's worse, we've seen it done better.
  
  As for the gameplay, Prince of Persia nails down the core elements of a modern third person, action-adventure 
 game, with enough jumping puzzles and tedious combat a heart can desire. But the developers did 
 throw in a little something new: Prince can't actually die. Well, actually he can die, but thank 
 heavens Elika is around to prevent it every single time. Whenever Prince will miss a jump (and 
 he will, trust me) or fail a quick-time-event, Elika will jump in at the last second to save him 
 and pull him up to safety. This of course lowers the difficulty level quite a bit in some cases, 
 while possibly ramping it up in others. Elika will only place Prince on horizontal platforms that 
 she considers to be safe, and there are a few sequences that are completely devoid of such platforms, 
 so every time you mess up, you have to start them all over again, and some of them are pretty long. 
 Since there isn't much of a challenge throughout the game, I guess you can't really call it difficult; 
 it is more of a nuisance. At least when Elika and Prince finish a level, the player is treated 
 to a nice (if a bit disturbing) scene of Elika purifying the area of Ahriman corruption, replacing 
 it with green grass and butterflies.
  
  Another annoying decision made by the game developers are the light seeds: every time Prince and 
 Elika purify a corrupted area, it is up to Prince (and therefore the player) to backtrack to the 
 beginning of this level and collect little orbs of light that are used to upgrade Elika's abilities. 
 Of course it is impossible to finish the game with Elika's new abilities, so you have to run around 
 the world searching for light seeds you might have missed on the first run-through. Apart from 
 that, the gameplay can be fun, for the first half an hour; after that it a classic case of "been 
 here done that" with only a handful of truly original moments to break the monotony. The only highlights 
 of the game are the boss fights (especially the last one) . Each boss has its unique abilities and 
 fighting style, and the player must adapt to the surrounding and weakness of each of them. However, 
 you have to fight each boss at least four times before truly defeating it, so even these initially 
 fun and intense fights fall victim to the repetitive gameplay Prince of Persia is inflicted with.
 
  
  The new Prince of Persia is not a game for the fans; it has nothing to do with previous games, 
 apart from the core gameplay, and it isn't as good. The repetitive nature of the game prevents 
 it from being fun for a long period of time, and there is nothing interesting enough to draw you 
 into its world. If you never played a Prince of Persia game, do yourself a favor and skip this 
 one and go and try the "Sands of Time" trilogy instead. If you are a fan, you probably will or 
 already did play this game, regardless to other people's opinions. But once you do, go back and 
 give the older series another play-through, just to remember why you became a fan at the first 
 place. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crimson_axe
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 10, 2009 11:10 pm PT
Review:  Alright, so I think maybe the title may have thrown some people off, but hopefully, you'll read 
 long enough for an explanation why I beleive this PoP takes the franchise back to where it all 
 started.
  
  Graphics - 9
  
  So, you might be wondering why I'm giving this a near perfect score. That's easy enough to explain. 
 I've been playing this game, and I just can't find a single thing about it that doesn't scream 
 "Next-Gen", except for one thing that I will get to in a moment. Otherwise, this game really delivers 
 in every comprehensible way on this aspect.
  
  People complain about the "black lines" and the cel-shading. Beleive me, I was one of them, and 
 all i can say is the screenshots do not do this game justice - even though they are pretty nice 
 depending on your attitude.
  
  Maybe it's because I'm playing it at Max Settings for Resolution and Textures. Even so - in all 
 honesty, I don't even notice the black lines or the cel-shading anymore. In fact, I have to really 
 try to see them. It's all rendered so beautifully that you either subconciously forget about them... 
 or maybe it's just that those tidbits aren't so "game-breaking" that it matters much.
  
  It's very reminescent of the first PoP: SoT in that everything has a very surreal fantasy fairy-tale 
 vibe to it. Now, I know most people hated that about the game, which is why they completely went 
 in the opposite direction with the other two. Personally, I liked the first one better, because 
 it was something you didn't see in any other game - you still don't see it. It was nostalgic to 
 play SoT because it reminded me of games like Legend of Zelda. Much is the same with this new PoP, 
 and I personally don't want them to change a thing. Besides, you do have the whole "dark world" 
 thing going on for people who enjoy that sort of tone. I think it brings the best of both worlds.
 
  
  I took one point away for the simple fact that even though the game looks and runs great, it doesn't 
 compare to the shere amount of onscreen goodness from such games as Assassin's Creed. I mean, AC 
 looks superb even now... but it had a million things on screen at once. This game just doesn't 
 have that, and as a result, doesn't meet the benchmark.
  
  Overall, the game runs smooth, and it looks good - damn good.
  
  Sound - 10
  
  It's getting 
 harder and harder these days to even rate this portion of a game. I mean, Sound is one of those 
 things that will always be good, no matter if you have a killer set up or not. Things like environmental 
 effects just aren't as prominent as they once were - it all has been working pretty much the way 
 it should be for the past few years now.
  
  However, it is important to take note the two more common sounds you hear in the game - the VO 
 of Prince and Elika and the music.
  
  First the music... I think it's gravy. I mean, seriously... it's like the cherry on the best ice 
 cream sundae ever created. It's so... fitting... you just don't realise how good it is until you 
 don't hear it anymore.
  
  The Voice Acting is something else that needs to be commented on, but I think it is largely in 
 part due to the script the actors follow. Any exchange between Elika and Prince is just spot on. 
 Their voices are perfectly in tune with one another, which is important since they have the sole 
 responsibility of carrying the story. Everything revolves around them, thus, this has to deliver. 
 If this were anything short of perfect, it would make the whole game fall flat on its face.
  
  Gameplay - 8
  
  Alright, so I've spoken about how wonderful the Graphics and Sound are 
 - but how does it play?
  
  Well, you've read the other reviews... you know that it's a (somewhat) easy game. I think a lot 
 of reviewers do a little more than over-simplify what's actually going on. You see, the game is 
 broken up into 2 different categories: platforming and combat.
  
  The platforming part of the game does tend to hold your hand (literally) in that there are no deaths, 
 or reloads, or any sort of "end-game" concept. I personally have mixed reactions about this.
  
  I mean, on the one hand, yeah, now that I've played a game that doesn't have a "game over" 
 screen, I can see how completely useless they are, since as a gamer who wants to win, I'll eventually 
 overcome that obstacle that got in your way. Plus, most games use this as a false game lengthener. 
 On the other hand... I dunno... it almost seems just wrong not to have some sort of risk vs reward 
 - which this game definitely does not have. I mean, it works in this game, because everything else 
 about it is so rewarding in and of itself. But in a game that doesn't have the perfect marriage 
 of story, character development, and excellent gameplay... you just couldn't do this. I still don't 
 have a solid opinion on this matter.
  
  At any rate, what is misleading about this whole "the game is too easy because I can't die..." 
 ordeal, is that there are a few challenging cases within the game. For instance, in the platforming, 
 there are quite a few times where you must navigate through an entire room before you get to the 
 next checkpoint (a place where Elika will bring you back to, should you fall.) These can be tricky 
 if you aren't paying attention to everything, plus, it all usually happens relatively fast. If 
 you make one mistake, it could mean having to redo the whole thing over again - which is fine. 
 But in traditional methods, that would involve going to a "game over" screen, then the load option, 
 then selecting the file, then waiting for it to load up - so it really isn't any worse that what 
 we already do in any other game... it just cuts out the bull crap. However, I will say this - the 
 only reason this game gets by with this is because this feature is actually woven into the story 
 - so it makes sense everytime.
  
  Also, the combat (which isn't as non-existent as I was lead to beleive) can sometimes be difficult, 
 simply by how fast it occurs. However, I think that is more of a problem that PC users face when 
 using a Mouse and Keyboard - it can get a little confusing correlating the "Green Button" to one 
 of the buttons on the mouse. I blame this on the fact that it's a multi-platform game. At any rate, 
 the game definitely could have used some other fighting ordeals - which leads me to...
  
  I mentioned earlier that this game brings the franchise back to its roots - and I'm talking 8-bit 
 era. if anyone here is old enough to remember the original Prince of Persia, then you know all 
 to well how frustrating the controls were, and how 90% of the game focussed on navigating through 
 the dungeon, and the last 10% focussed on combat - specifically duelling. Basically, that's the 
 same thing that's going on here - and I don't hate it. However, given that gamers have changed 
 since those days, I think it would be okay to see the series grow into allowing more frequency 
 of combative scenarios.
  
  Value - 10
  
  The game wreaks of top quality polish. It's a bit disheartening to know, however, that the Prince 
 is no longer Ubisoft's flagship hero (the crown now belongs to Altair.) But, it just goes to show 
 you how he still has some aces up his sleeve. Ubisoft gave the developers the resources they needed 
 to make the game they wanted - and it paid.
  
  Tilt 10
  
  I'm a fan of PoP... always have been. This new title hasn't changed my mind, but in fact the new 
 design theories has given me hope that there is so much more they can do with the franchise. I 
 mean, the gameworld is so hugely inspiring, that it just makes one wonder just how far they can 
 go with this idea of free-roaming.
  
  Lastly, I want to give this section a perfect score, because of the thing you hardly hear about 
 in a platformer - story. This sotry is no less epic than the SoT, and in fact, could be even bigger.
 
  
  Overall 9.4 (Average) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pawliuz
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 9, 2009 12:31 pm PT
Review:  Is it just me, or this game have lost the Prince of Persia spirit? I used to love playing pop games, 
 now I got bored in half an hour. 
  Sure, graphics, gameplay, prince moves and everything are great, but it's supposed to be great; 
 it's a new game.
  There's much more magic and less fighting left, I'd rather fight 10 weaker enemies, than one strong, 
 which turns out later, is not that strong, because the game is so damn easy. And all that flying 
 stuff?!..... I don't know.... And it's impossible to die, thanks to that magic chick, which saves 
 you all the time, you try to do something stupid or about to get killed. Is it good? If you're 
 6 years old, yeah, but I'd like some challenge.
  Maybe, it's just me, getting old, but I don't get that feeling, I got playing older pop, it used 
 to be fun, now...... I don't know......
  So I have to say, this game is disappointing, for me at least.
  Oh and I didn't like the new 
 prince, he's not cool.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: coreblade
Rating: 5.5
Date: Feb 8, 2009 1:32 am PT
Review:  When I first heard of this game I got really excited to play another PoP. I was watching news and 
 videos with my friend very often. He was very disappointed to see that the games graphic and combat 
 system changed, but I told him it will be a good game we just have to wait. After the release we 
 both got it began to play. He was amazed by the game, but I, who claimed it will be a good game, 
 got really smashed from it. Yes the graphics are pretty nice, but who the hell plays a game for 
 ony to see good graphics? They improved the acrobatics, but they made you also immortal. So you 
 can jump of a cliff nothing happens since Elika pulls you back. In the older ones you had to take 
 care about the Prince and watch every of your steps, but now you think: ''If I fall down nothing 
 bad happens since Elika pulls me back, so why should I care about it?,, And the worst of all is 
 the combat system. I must admit that the acrobatics moves are very good here too, but you have 
 to fight only one enemy all the time. If Elika is on your side then why can't tey put much more 
 enemies in the way? I would have been happier to see that we need to kill like 20 enemies not only 
 1. Here also, you don't have to watch for the prince since he's immortal. You won't die since Elika 
 rescues you all the time. So what Ubisoft made was only getting out the good parts of the game, 
 replace them with bad ones and make a new, very nice looking graphics solution. So don't buy this 
 game ever. Play the old ones since they are more fun and a bit more challenging. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nutcrackr
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 7, 2009 3:37 pm PT
Review:  Creating a fresh spin on a franchise that spans as many games as Prince of Persia does isn't easy, 
 which is why Ubisoft have done a great job with its recent PoP game. The basic elements of jumping 
 along ledges and sword fighting against foes exist from previous versions but the art style, characters 
 and setting make it feel almost like a new franchise.
  
  During the start of the game you will meet up with Elika who is running from guards and her father, 
 you and her will join forces to set things right. You eventually learn that the land has become 
 corrupted, and soon an evil force will be let loose on the world. Naturally it's going to be your 
 job to save the day, or at least try to help. Elika is a servant for good, and she needs to heal 
 the lands and defeat four unique corrupted before she can stop the evil from being set free. The 
 Prince and Elika will engage in conversations, often humorous throughout their exploration. Many 
 of these can simply be initiated whenever an icon appears. The story is light and the dialogue 
 is usually pretty good for all of the characters.
  
  The first thing you'll notice is the slightly unusual art style, characters are outlined, colours 
 are saturated when the land is healed and effects are exaggerated. Just about every art choice 
 in the game works, nothing feels overdone and contrasting is brilliant between the corruption and 
 the healed world. Corruption is shown as black goo in the world, it will cover areas and move between 
 jumps halting your progress, and corrupted bosses (the unique four) use their powers in this corrupted 
 mode to their advantage. In this mode you will need to use Elika to revert them back to a mode 
 where they can be damaged using your sword.
  Thankfully landing in corruption during platforming or falling from a very high ledge doesn't spell 
 the end for our Prince. Elika, the very beautiful and well acted character comes to your rescue 
 with the powers of good she received from Ormazd. She saves you before death, propelling you back 
 to the last spot you were on safe and level ground, in other words you can't die. The added bonus 
 to this is that it removes all frustration, you will still need to complete long sections without 
 error, but you don't need to worry about saving so your focus shifts completely to the game world. 
 Yes this does mean the game becomes easier, and it does become a bit more of an adventure than 
 a challenging platformer.
  
  Corrupted lands need to be healed, and to heal them you first need to get powers in order to get 
 to the healing grounds. The powers can be unlocked using your collection of light seeds which are 
 found near the areas of previously healed ground. As soon as an area is healed plants appear, corruption 
 vanishes and the mood lifts, even the characters are more optimistic when they chat adding some 
 positive incentive to heal lands quickly. You'll need to collect roughly half the light seeds, 
 and the majority of these will simply be on the path ways between the various areas. Only a few 
 times did I need to do some backtracking to find more seeds to unlock my next power, thankfully 
 the game tells you how many you've collected in each area so you can optimise your search. Some 
 seeds will be visible but will be located in places where you need to do some obscure jumping to 
 get. It only serves to highlight just how smooth the platforming elements are, the controls will 
 not get in your way and the game works well with a mouse and keyboard.
  
  The powers you gain are simple effects you activate when you hit power plates; they magically take 
 you to other areas inaccessible without them. One power is wall walking, allowing you to cling 
 to walls and traverse up, around or along obstacles to get to other plates, you will have to guide 
 the Prince, one bump and he'll need Elika's hand to restart the sequence. Another power is flying, 
 you'll simply take off in a predetermined direction and will need to steer yourself to avoid obstacles. 
 The final two powers are similar, only differing in looks. They pounce or fling you and Elika from 
 one plate to the next, sometimes with conventional jumping in between plates. The longest and perhaps 
 the most repeated segments usually involve these powers, as there is generally very little safe 
 stationary ground between the start and end of a series of plates. There is definitely some room 
 to move with powers especially with the similarity between the existing ones. 
  
  Combat is simple but rewarding; you'll need to time blocks and attacks well. The display will help 
 you considerably, alerting you what state enemies are in, and what to do for key attacks. The four 
 corrupted bosses will change state, requiring the use of Elika, your sword or gauntlet to "break" 
 the modes and allow you to attack freely. You'll also need to be quick on the buttons in order 
 to block special cutscene type attacks. Combos will do extra damage and look pretty good at the 
 same time, you can use the environment such as columns to defeat enemies. Again you can't die in 
 fights as Elika will call upon Ormazd to save you at the same time restoring some of the enemies' 
 health. You'll be fighting the bosses more than a few times, but not for too long each time.
  
  The game does have a few puzzles, usually involving cranks / gears and plates. The puzzles 
 can be completed with some dumb luck if you just go through various combinations without thinking 
 too much. In general though there isn't a lot of thinking, you'll be enjoying the vistas, the very 
 fluid platforming and the wonderful consistent art style of the world. There is a bit of repetition 
 going between areas that you've already traversed, but there is usually a few ways to get through 
 them using a combination of jumps so it's not a big issue. Prince of Persia 2008 is a wonderful 
 game that sparks more life into the franchise.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vexx88
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 2, 2009 6:57 pm PT
Review:  You play as a new prince (not the one from Sands of time) he is just minding his own business when 
 he stumbles upon a girl names Elika that he saves from guys that are attacking her. He soon get 
 caught in a conspiracy to save the world with her as his aid.
  
  Now with that out of the way the fighting are all 1 on 1 fights don't expect armies of enemies 
 like in "Assassin's Creed" Which are all basically one big quick time events with a good amount 
 of regular moves thrown in. Elika helps you in the fight with her magic. Oh! I almost forgot since 
 this is PoP you know how there is a LOT of platforming that is back and nothing is wrong with it.... except 
 for the fact that you can't DIE. Seriously Elika is always there to bail you out if you slip and 
 fall or about to get impaled. I mean on the 360 and PS3 there is an Achievement/Trophy for only 
 letting her save you under a 100 times but the PC version does not have achievements so screw up 
 as much you want. Thus making this game way to easy under circumstances. Trust me rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GameObserver
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 1, 2009 12:47 pm PT
Review:  One had to wonder what logic Ubisoft used to justify a remake of Prince of Persia so early into 
 the last trilogy's run. I personally didn't understand the need to revamp a working formula. After 
 having played the 2008 version it all became clear: it's not the franchise they revamped, it's 
 the fan base. In the last few years I noticed Ubisoft's flagship title had a strong casual gamer 
 following -- women in particular. Many of my female friends included at least one of the last three 
 Princes in their library (usually the first one) , along with games like Myst and The Sims. The 
 latter are hugely successful franchises so it was only natural that Ubisoft decided to further 
 tap into the female market, probably one of the most loyal in the industry. 
  
  Prince of Persia always had a certain appeal to the fair gender with its ease of play and love 
 theme. The last two titles attempted to give the concept a more action-oriented feel but that strategy 
 generated rather disappointing results. It appears Ubisoft realized where the game's strength lies 
 and decided to virtually scrap action and puzzle elements in favor of what made the first Prince 
 of Persia a hit: wall-running and bonding. Veteran players will find enough action here to keep 
 them interested but extra steps were taken to incorporate much-neglected female gamer preferences.
 
  
  
  AND THOSE PREFERENCES ARE?
  
  Prince of Persia 2008 isn't much of an achievement in terms of gameplay but it lets casual players 
 enjoy the game without too many headaches. The game is very easy to get into and does a wonderful 
 job developing the relationship between both protagonists. It features a healthy does of dialog 
 about dreams, goals, parents, duty, love and sex -- the last one usually approached subtly enough 
 to pass under most male radar screens. The entire game flows freely with the player simply tagging 
 along on a ride designed around Elika, the heroine. 
  
  Dialog can be ignored, which in a sense also makes the plot optional considering the story is told 
 through the various conversions between Elika and the "prince". A bubble appears when one of them 
 has something to say. It's a great feature considering some will not care about the profuse "bonding" 
 taking place. I personally would advise against ignoring the plot. The ending might seem a little 
 strange (correction: stranger) if you skip all the chitchat. 
  
  
  WHY I AM LETTING THIS THIEF TAG ALONG WITH ME?
  
  Because he is the only playable character. 
 And because he's got awesome abs, a great sense of humor, is charming, witty, adventurous, independent, 
 confident, caring, cheers me up when I'm down, has a nice butt, cool scars, deep azure eyes, accepts 
 me for who I am, treats me like a lady, has "experience", is a bad boy and I can probably change 
 him. That's the one-dimensional MySpace "who I'd like to meet" ideal male for ya. The only thing 
 missing is information on whether he's a good dancer. 
  
  The female protagonist, Elika, on the other hand, is far more fleshed out. On the surface she is 
 a goodie-two-shoes princess whose dad unleashed the god of corruption, Ahriman, from his prison. 
 She is also endowed with special powers that include teleportation and various "light" abilities. 
 On the inside, though, she is the personification of most girls wanting to make an imprint in today's 
 crazy world of constraints. Together with her companion they attempt to lock Ahriman back into 
 his prison by purging the land of corruption. The land itself is the prison but it has weakened. 
 Now his minions are running amok, infecting the rustic countryside with black goop while the threat 
 of their boss escaping looms over our heroes (literally) . The threat is only implied because action 
 is laidback and open-ended. 
  
  Why Elika lets the thief tag along with her (and do all the action) is a valid question since she 
 doesn't need to climb walls and jump from pole to pole to get the job done. She can teleport, fly 
 and is the only one who can purge the land of corruption. Her love interest is merely there to 
 let us experience the game through human eyes. Players control the male character while Elika supports 
 him in various ways. The "prince" can't die. As soon as our man slips Elika teleports to the rescue 
 -- it's her answer to the old time rewind feature. The hero (when will this guy get a name?) can't 
 even die during the scant one-on-one boss battles. In short, anybody can finish this game.
  
  
  IS THERE ANYTHING TO CLIMB BESIDES WALLS AND PILLARS?
  
  No. But there are vertical 
 and horizontal poles, and surfaces our male hero can slide on. Four different types of "plates" 
 are also spread out in the levels giving players access to specific locations. The concept is good 
 but creativity seems to have run dry at Ubisoft because three of the four plates simply make you 
 fly. The fourth one lets players run on vertical surfaces, which is cool, but changing one of the 
 "fly" plates to something else would have reduced repetition, which the game has plenty of.
  
  The ability to use each plate is unlocked when enough "light seeds" are found. The corrupted 
 land is divided into zones, each one containing "fertile ground" (shiny target) that purifies the 
 surroundings when stepped on. Players must first traverse the perilous, corrupted levels to reach 
 the fertile "targets" then redo each level to find light seeds. Levels can be completed in no particular 
 order, which might explain why the entire game is uniformly easy. A few obstacles are added further 
 into the plot but in general gameplay is rather simplistic until the very end. 
  
  Players will be asked to do a fair deal of wall-running, climbing and pillar-jumping. The mechanics 
 around the aforementioned actions are decent but gameplay might be a bit too straightforward for 
 veterans. The "prince" automatically attaches to the nearest surface despite miscuing a jump. Wall 
 surfaces even have scratch marks, hinting where you should run or glide. This "assistance" can 
 get on your nerves at times when our stud does what he's not supposed to, like jump up instead 
 of wall-run. Unlike previous Prince of Persia games, levels don't have any spikes or traps. Furthermore, 
 there are but two or three puzzles in the entire story. It's all wall-running and bouncing off 
 plates. Things are so easy much of the game can be played with a single hand. The only challenge 
 will be finding carefully hidden light seeds. 
  
  
  THANK ORMAZD YOU'RE THERE TO WATCH MY BACKSIDE, ELIKA
  
  Prince of Persia doesn't suffer from 
 trial-and-error, which plagues many games of the genre. We have straightforwardness "embellishing" 
 gameplay instead. I say that with a hint of sarcasm because gameplay is absurdly easy while "parcouring" 
 through levels. One doesn't even need to see what's ahead; the game practically plays itself. Still, 
 seeing your character prancing around like a ninja is a gratifying feeling. Too bad it's artificial 
 
  
  Combat, enjoys the same scripted formula. Combos are great to perform and watch unfold but fighting 
 is stiff. On-screen reflex button presses make up most of the fighting though after a while I actually 
 stopped playing along with this stupid feature, opting for getting beat up instead. Why? Because 
 taking damage is irrelevant: you can't die. Getting knocked around simply refills your opponent's 
 life meter a bit -- a strange gameplay feature if you ask me. I've actually left the game running 
 in the middle of a boss fight while taking a bathroom break. 
  
  Block, dodge, deflect and attack animations lock your character up, leaving you open for attacks 
 between moves. The entire spectacle turns fighting into a beautiful ballet of rigid action. One 
 can't, for instance, perform an attack midway into a roll. You have to watch your character dodge, 
 get up and get ready before performing a move. 
  
  Combat has spectacular animation but it can be repetitive, especially when fighting bosses. Seeing 
 Elika get punched fifty times in the face the exact same way by the end-boss got a malevolent laugh 
 out of me because well, she should have learned her lesson not to approach the action after the 
 first forty-nine times! Unfortunately for her, she was the victim of constrained animation and 
 surroundings. Speaking of which, battles usually take place on clear ground, and though decorations 
 during fights are rare (you can push opponents through them) , I still had occasions where a single, 
 unique, lowly pillar blocked my view 
  
  
  NO, THAT'S NOT THE TORTURE ROOM, THAT'S THE GARDEN
  
  This brings us to the camera. It's decent! 
 There were times where action zoomed out so far up I got a glimpse of the floor above me, but it 
 happened rarely. Not that you will care; the levels are exquisite, so seeing more of them is always 
 a plus. I used to think previous Prince of Persia games had great level designs, but this version 
 tops them, at least from an esthetic point of view. From afar the local architecture gives the 
 impression the kingdom was inhabited by real people. From up close, though, Elika literally has 
 to explain what the rooms were used for. The next Prince of Persia might need to model its ground-level 
 realism after Assassin's Creed. 
  
  Speaking of realism, the thief's voice doesn't seem to match his look. Granted, the guy sounds 
 great -- some of the best voice acting of the series -- but the gentle, boyish voice doesn't match 
 the "I'll stab you in a dark alley" look. Other than that, dialog is perfect. I personally could 
 listen to both characters all day long. The game features some of the best lines I've heard title 
 to date and music is also on par with what you might expect from a Ubisoft product. It's good enough 
 to make me want to "find" some of the tunes. One small blemish has to be the overly-repetitive 
 main theme song. 
  
  
  SUMMARY
  
  Prince of Persia took a definite step backwards in terms of gameplay but considering Ubisoft is 
 looking to attract casual gamers, the change can be deemed a success. Repetition, on the other 
 hand, is no excuse. A few more innovations would have definitely done the game good. Combat could 
 have also used more fluidity. It's stiff and pointless, considering you can't die. This new Prince 
 is a great game for people who like watching polar opposites bonding; it's not-so-great for players 
 looking for a challenge. The game is absurdly easy. 
  
  
  GRAPHICS 81
  Clean and beautiful graphics. The landscape is worth gazing at but interior levels feel artificial. 
 The new murderer-look doesn't become the "prince".
  
  GAMEPLAY 70
  Repetitive action and stiff combat. The plates feel like a wasted gimmick. The game practically 
 plays itself, though it's fun "parcouring" through levels.
  
  PRODUCTION 75
  Great lines and a nice plot, though I'm not convinced the game should have ended the way it did. 
 I was expecting a better intro and buildup.
  
  SOUND 88
  Very nice tunes. Captures the Persian feel. Dialog is clearly the game's strong point. Best sounding 
 "prince" of the series. 
  
  LASTING APPEAL 72
  Repetition sets in very early and doesn't get better with time. The only extras worth finding are 
 alternate costumes. A solid 15 hours.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sekharpriyansu
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 30, 2009 10:37 pm PT
Review:  It is simply a dull game. You need no logic or intelligence to play it. It should learn from TOMB 
 RAIDER series [full of logics] . So this game gets booring after sometime. Also prince can't die !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
 
  There is nothing new or innovative in it. Simply just a booring game to be played for only good 
 acrobatics and good graphics. Here you have to tap only the keys and watch the cartoon movie, nothing 
 more than that. It does not come anywhere to the other games of the series. But it is good for small 
 children or novices, as it is very very very easy and can get help every where. I don't thint it 
 can be liked by adults or hard core gamers. Simply a spoiled game for gamers. It has not come upto 
 expectaion in any ways either in gameplay or in story or in difficulty. It is simply a waste of 
 money and time  
::::::

::::::
UserName: vladex00
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 30, 2009 1:49 am PT
Review:  Forget what you know about the Prince of Persia series. Let go the Sands of Time. Release your 
 Warrior Within. Ubisoft Montreal has created a new Prince, in a new world, with a new female companion 
 and a very different design philosophy. The longer you hold on to the style of last generation's 
 Prince of Persia, the harder it will be to master the new one. Embrace the change and you're likely 
 to fall in love with the new Prince (or at least his lovely companion) . 
  
  When we meet the new Prince, he hardly seems princely at all. Little more than a smooth-talking 
 thief, the Prince gets lost in a sandstorm while searching for his donkey, Farah. Of course, this 
 is no ordinary sandstorm. This mystical phenomenon transports the Prince to another land, one seemingly 
 made more of myth than reality. It's here where he fatefully runs into Elika, a beautiful barefoot 
 descendant of a clan sworn to guard the prison of the evil god Ahriman. As bad luck would have 
 it, the two meet just in time to witness Ahriman's release from his prison inside the Tree of Life. 
 His escape releases corruption across the four areas of the world. This corruption will spread 
 further unless the Prince and Elika can heal the infected lands. And so begins your adventure. 
 
  
  This is a story about love. Not the love between the Prince and Elika, but between you and Elika. 
 She is your constant guide, able to cast a spell at any time to show you the path to your goal. 
 Come across a gap too great for the Prince to leap? Elika can assist with a double-jump move. Want 
 some help in combat? Elika patrols the arena, ready to attack at your command. Miss a ledge and 
 about to fall to your death? No sweat. Elika will always save you. Elika teaches you about corruption 
 and the battle between Ahriman and Ormazd, about the history of the four infected areas and the 
 tragic tales of all four bosses you must battle. She's your greatest asset and far more likeable 
 than the boorish Prince. If Elika were just a little bit more real or I was just a tad more insane, 
 I'd marry her. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: PrincessLeila
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 28, 2009 6:01 am PT
Review:  I think this game has a great graphic and game-play ( but I haven't find any reset camera..!!!! 
 or there isn't any..!) and also easier that any of POP series that I've played before. It has a 
 "realistic" natural environment about stones and trees :D and more natural that prince hasn't die 
 to force player that play again from "game over". It was a great idea to use Persian words to pray 
 ORMAZD (Ahura Mazda) But also, I'm afraid to say that many of buildings, words, arts, clothes and 
 even culture was Arabic and Islamic, not ancient Persia of ZARTOSHT (an ancient Persian saint prophet 
 ) age..
  ( I think ) it was fair to be used PAHLAVI (an ancient Persian language) , Avestan (an ancient Iranian 
 language in which the holy books of Zoroastrianism were written) or just Parsi ( Persian language 
 ) words in this game..
  btw, I really enjoyed of playing POP games and also I'm waiting for POP 5, 6,... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: re01234crusader
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 25, 2009 11:00 pm PT
Review:  I have to admit, like many more modern gamers today, I fell in love with this series because of 
 the most underappreciated game in the series, mostly because of the "Series Elders" (the gamers 
 who have played the previous games in the series) . So now, where to begin, where to begin?
  
  Overview: This new PoP game (also known as "Prodigy") is by far the best but most underappreciated 
 game in the entire series. At this early point, you may be wondering, has this douchebag even played 
 the previous games? Does he know what he's talking about? Well, the answer is, YES. I have played 
 the old games and I thought they were good, but I never go interested in it that much. But Prodigy 
 changed everything.
  
  *SPOILER ALERT* 
  
  In the beginning, this new Prince is lost in a sandstorm, trying to find his donkey (as a subtle 
 homage to the old games, his donkey's name is Farah. Old fans of the series should smile at this.) , 
 loaded with gold from a recent grave robbing. He falls into a canyon and meets up with this girl, 
 who's named Elika. (as always, the tradition is The Prince always meeting up with a princess. Ironic, 
 isn't it?) . At that early point, I somehow knew this game was... interesting. 
  
  As you continue, following the girl through a series of acrobatic jumps, climbs, wall runs, and 
 occasional sword strikes, the story opens up. Very subtly at first, but it opens up. The gameplay 
 was surprisingly smooth on the PC, better than using the consoles in fact. But it's not just the 
 gameplay that grows on you, the story and the characters come to life as you continue the game.
 
  
  *SPOILER END*
  
  As you trek the lands, the story opens up and you understand it better. You have the option to 
 talk to Elika and learn about the place you are in, the background of the story, and about the 
 characters. Not just that, but you hear a variety of interesting quips from The Prince, most who 
 give you at the very least a chuckle. Now, this new Prince is not the serious type of person. He's 
 not a big bad buff who thinks he can do everything and he doesn't fit in with Hollywood cliches. 
 
  
  Now, many gamers have gotten adjusted to that, and they may not like this new character, but believe 
 me, I liked him because he was not that cliche guy. I have seen far too many (starting with Leon 
 S. Kennedy from RE4, he's the king of one-liners and cliches) random "buff cool cliche guys". Because 
 he had humor, because he talked like a real person, because he acted like a real person, and because 
 he had a real person's emotions, I almost cried of happiness. (Thank you, Ubisoft and Nolan North, 
 for not having a cliche guy!)
  
  The sound is great! The voices aren't bad, the occasional quips are funny ("This is the Queen's 
 Tower, and yet we find you here, Mr. Warrior..... Is there something you're not telling us, you 
 big pile of rocks?") , and the best part was the orchestral score. If there's gonna be a soundtrack, 
 I will murder someone just to get it. It sounds so unique and the calm, serene music fits in when 
 you are at the healed regions and the intense, fast-paced music is perfect for when you are attempting 
 an extremely long acrobatic course with The Swarm pecking at your neck. It intensifies the action.
 
  
  The graphics are very unique. Ubisoft takes the use of cartoonish cel-shading, but at the same 
 time it looks realistic. At times, it looks like you are staring at a beautiful painting. This 
 illustrative art style takes PoP to a new level. 
  
  However, there is one thing many Hardcore gamers will complain about. For the, it will be way too 
 easy. But, that's there problem. I'm no hardcore gamer.
  
  This new Prince of Persia is not for everybody. It's not genre defining, it's not the greatest 
 game on the planet, and it doesn't match up that well to competitors. But man, is it a damn good 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gelugon_baat
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 25, 2009 8:19 am PT
Review:  Ubisoft, after having exhausted the saga of the Sands of Time to its fullest, forays into more 
 well established lore - specifically those of the Persian deities (though some real-world disciples 
 beg to differ) . Even so, the mainstay of the games, the acrobatic platforming, stayed. It may even 
 have been improved and made more impressive.
  
  In respect for the canon of this new trilogy, I prefer to refer to the male lead as the "hero". 
 There is only a few hints that picked him out as a royal, though most of these are largely graphical; 
 note the design of his clothes, especially his cape. In any case, the new hero is quite unique 
 to his predecessor, the gauntlet being a case in point.
  
  (The game's graphics and gameplay suggest that the gauntlet may not be just a mortal steel accessory, 
 but again, it's just as mysterious as the hero's clothes.)
  
  The unique cel-shading and vibrant, swirling colors (even the corruption looked very good) should 
 have no problem bringing back the nostalgia of fairy tales, which is one of the goals of this game. 
 Music and sound effects are just as breath-taking as the graphics, and as the GameSpot review has 
 noted, having pulled off a series of magic-bolstered acrobatic moves are very, very satisfying.
 
  
  Even the light seeds that the duo have to collect seem to beckon the gamer to look back to the 
 days when coins, stars and other pick-up what-nots were located in improbable places in games. 
 Heck, even the maximum number of light seeds that one can collect makes a reference to a certain 
 Middle Eastern saga.
  
  With the emphasis on the new "darkness & light" theme, one wonders whether the very unique programming 
 that made the time powers of the previous trilogy so impressive is wasted. Of course, I eventually 
 figured out that it was used to animate Elika instead, so that she mimics the hero's actions perfectly 
 - whenever she is not using magic to bolster herself of course.
  
  Speaking of Elika, she is what Yorda of Ico and the various "sidekicks" in certain action games 
 should have been. Ever dependable and quick to act and react, as well as being as competent as 
 the hero in what he does best. Of course, her reliability may very well be one of the liabilities 
 of this game: the game is easy and one can never lose. It's just a matter of time before you win. 
 No pun intended.
  
  Unfortunately, I did not find this game to be entirely great.
  
  The most painfully missing feature in this game is the rewards for extended exploration. In the 
 previous trilogy of Prince of Persia (and perhaps even the 2D ones of the 1980s) , the player is 
 rewarded for going off the path and braving dangerous platforming to collect bonus pick-ups (seemingly 
 revolving around the element of water) . In this game, there are no off-the-path caverns and trails, 
 and the gamer is treated to somewhat open-ended means to obtain the various light seeds scattered 
 throughout the levels. Yet, after 500-600 light seeds, there is no more in-game incentive to collect 
 more. There're the achievements and such, but no more bonuses or power-ups to the Prince and Elika.
 
  
  There does not seem to be any bonus endings, nothing. Finding the light seeds is quite a bit rewarding 
 by itself, but considering that Elika is empowered by the essences, having collected 1000 seeds 
 and not having any improvements to Elika or the plate-triggered powers is very disappointing.
 
  
  Hopefully, the next game would have this fixed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: amazingahmed
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 25, 2009 12:19 am PT
Review:  This version is really got what it takes to be an amazing adventure.
  The pace is quicker which makes the game far from boring.
  It is a very nice thing that the prince 
 can't die when falling off cliffs (I don't have to repeat half of the level just because of a small 
 mistake)
  Also saving the game at any point gives the player freedom to pause & resume whenever he likes.
 
  The graphics are very neat and clean.
  The interaction between the characters are very nice.
  The storyline is really amusing that I 
 can't wait to know how all of this will end.
  The idea of the plates letting you fly makes you hold your breath.
  Also expanding the jump with 
 the aid of Elka is a great idea.
  Bad thing that monsters become more difficult as the game goes on.
  Overall is fantastic. I loved 
 playing it till now. I nearly finished half of the game and really looking forward to finish it. 
 (When I finish working lol) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alexngwl
Rating: 3.5
Date: Jan 24, 2009 7:44 pm PT
Review:  The game was totally a let down if compared with others POP franchise.
  
  1. Worst graphic of all if benchmark with POP WW & TTT. What i dislikes the most is the chracters 
 outline graphic that shaded with black lines. Feels is too thick and unreal.
  
  2. Way too easy and no challenge at all cost.
  
  3. Repetitive gameplay and boring. No minions.
 
  
  4. Mild plots and story telling.
  
  5. Lacked of characters development. Lacked of weapons development.
  
  6. Fitting boss is like 
 killing an ant. You won't die and it's too easy.
  
  7. *Personal opinions. Why the game title as Prince as Persia" Whew.... no words.
  
  8. Sound 
 track is the only thing to praise.
  
  Totally a let down. This is the worst ever review i've written. The game theme was not dark and 
 deep as previous POP's which are more heart beatings and the cinematics are much more better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: r0y4l
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 24, 2009 4:37 pm PT
Review:  I'd never have thought I'd be slightly ticked off by a GS review accompanied by an 8.0 grade. It's 
 easy to get 'fooled' by the 'arcady' or 'consoly' theme to this game, making you think that this 
 game is just 'good' or 'adequate'. However, in my opinion, this gane is a masterpiece. From the 
 moment I saw the classy, artsy menu I felt this game would stand out, and it did.
  
  GRAPHICS are different to what you're accustomed to, yes. I guess it's a love it or hate it thing 
 but in my opinion the style totally works for this game. On my 4870x2 with E6600 @ 3.0Ghz the game 
 runs like a charm at everything maxed out at 1680x1050 reso. The visuals look great and sometimes 
 you'll just want to stop for a bit and admire the scenery.
  
  GAMEPLAY just feels right. I'm playing with a xbox 360 controller. If you haven't got one for your 
 PC, consider buying one. Nowadays with one port after another it has proven to be a great investment. 
 Games like these (And for example GRID, Assassin's Creed, Dead Space, GTA IV) are so much more 
 enjoyable when sitting back and are quite suitable for an xbox controller.
  
  Some have argued that the gameplay is repetitive.
  In my opinion, calling this game's mechanics 
 of climbing, jumping and swordfighting repetitive is similar to calling CoD4 repetitive because 
 you have to keep shooting stuff. My advice would be not to try and complete this in one sitting, 
 take it slow and you won't get that feeling of repetitiveness.
  
  MUSIC really adds to this game. Much like Assassin's Creed, the musical score is great and will 
 really enhance your experience. I especially liked the music during the unlocking new powers stages.
 
  
  STABILITY has been overlooked by many when reviewing this game. Sadly, nowadays it is rare to find 
 a game as stable as this. Throughout I had the feeling that this game was very well polished and 
 I'm happy to report that it runs great, looks great and I haven't experienced a single glitch.
 
  
  I'd like to add that I first pirated this game. After playing it for a while I decided to buy it. 
 I hope others that enjoy this game will do likewise, as giving off signals to game developers that 
 they 'got it right' is massively important.
  
  CONCLUSION. I'll stop here as not to discourage anyone from reading this epos. I have thouroughly 
 enjoyed playing this game. From the great scenery and musical score, to the corny but amusing banter 
 between the prince and the princess; this games' developers dared to try something new and it totally 
 works. This game's a gem and should be acknowlegded as one.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: buggy3024
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 23, 2009 7:21 am PT
Review:  When i heard about the new Prince of Persia game I was thrilled, being a big fan of the series 
 and all, but the new PoP game doesn't have anything to do with the series, so its just like a totally 
 different game with the same name (they could of at least change it into "Prince of Southern Arabia" 
 or something) .
  
  So, if you ignore the fact that it has nothing to do with the series, it still sucks, in my opinion. 
 Fist of all no more multi killing, now its only duels, which mostly are the same. I liked in PoP 
 warrior withing all the killing, cutting in half, decapitating etc. now you fight only one dude 
 at a time, and only 4 dudes in the whole game (and a few minions on the way) . The acrobatics are 
 mostly the same, a few new one, which are think are kind of stupid. I also hate a lot the collecting 
 of the shiny bubble things. Oh yeah, and you can't die ! WTF ? its just too easy with no death, 
 the only bad thing when you die is that the guy your fighting regenerates a part of his life, or 
 you have to redo some jumps. Oh, and btw, the guy your playing with, is he even a prince ?
  
  The game is quite fun honestly, kind of short, but a little fun while playing it, its more 
 of a weekend game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Dragon_Wolf
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 22, 2009 2:57 pm PT
Review:  Well .. i can't say i didn't enjoy it .. it is surely and a fun experience and a very interesting 
 change they made to the Prince Franchise, but with that change came good things and bad things, 
 let me sum them up quickly.
  
  The Good:
  --------------
  -Stunning Artistic Graphics ( unbelievably artistic and unique from the beautiful main menu to 
 the last minute, and nothing beats seeing the world transom in real time for the first time )
 
  
  -Excellent Musical Score ( the music is really enchanting and wonderful, some of the best music 
 soundtracks i heard in a while )
  
  
  -Character Interaction ( the optional dialogs between Prince and Elika are very fun to hear and 
 make them feel more real and alive ) 
  
  -Acrobatics and Traveling Mechanics ( mainly 90% of the time you are jumping in the air with no 
 ground under you, its almost like flying .. well you do actually fly too thanks to the new magical-pads 
 system which works nicely )
  
  The Bad:
  ------------
  -The Combat ( messed up, repetitive and very generic specially the whole one-on-one affair, yes 
 ... sometimes it looks good when you pull a full combo but in the end it is very frustrating and 
 a down grade from the previous prince game excellent combat systems which mixed environmental acrobatics 
 and deep combat seamlessly )
  
  -The Open World ( while it is not done very badly it kinda kills the feeling of progression, i 
 don't mind a mid-game fork in which you have a choice between different paths or have the choice 
 to go to a group of places in any order like in Warrior Within .. but not the whole game )
  
  
  ------------------------------------------------------------
  
  Recommended for Prince 
 enthusiasts ( try to get along with the cranky combat ) and a good buy for fans of the action/adventure 
 genre.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sargjaeger
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jan 21, 2009 9:01 pm PT
Review:  I was actually astonished at how good a score this game got. I'm a fan of PoP since the first 2d 
 game, which I played on 4 different consoles since it came out, I was so much into it. 
  I really liked how they reinvented the game and was glad, that the transition to 3d was so successful. 
 
  
  But THIS game? Well, the graphics were great, the animations superb and the level-design ( simply 
 from how it looked ) was impressive. 
  
  What bothered me was not so much the fact that you couldn't die ( although it bothered me ) . The 
 game was too easy. The same way Assassins Creed was too easy. The character would do all these 
 amazing things, while all the player does is pressing a button. Sometimes you had to press a second 
 button, or in very rare case, even a third.... but the timing thresholds were so forgiving. 
  
  Same with the combat. Initially, it's somewhat entertaining to figure out the different attack 
 patterns the prince can perform together with his protege, but its gets old very fast and pretty 
 much feels like a long quick time event. 
  
  Collecting the orbs can be fun ( although you have to backpedal through the level you just came 
 through ) , but they are only used for one purpose, and once they are not needed anymore, 50 percent 
 of what the game has to offer ( which is not very much to begin with ) in terms of what you can 
 actually DO in this game, is gone. 
  
  And there's the girl. You know, the one that can help you survive falling from a cliff by flying 
 around and catching you, but then she is to stupid to jump from vein to vein. Just when you think 
 you finally have a flow and you can rush through this game and never ever have to play it again, 
 your character has to stop moving because the spirit women suddenly needs a hand to climb a stair. 
 really really annoying. ( example: you jump from twine to twine, wait 3 seconds until the animation 
 of catching the girl is done, start going sideways, jump from twine to twine...) . This might seem 
 like knit-picking, but to me, it simply was the icing on the cake. 
  
  So I finished the game after 5 hours, returned the rental, and simply had to play some NES platformers 
 to wash the bad taste out of my mouth. 
  
  This game was an action adventure without any action or adventure. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dryll
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 21, 2009 5:59 pm PT
Review:  its fun to play for a while but liked the sands of time and two thrones better. in this one there 
 are not a lot of enemies to fight which makes this one boring if you play to long plus it is to 
 easy and also he does not have a lot of moves. so if you really want to enjoy prince of Persia 
 i suggest to play one of the older releases. for me The two thrones was the best in the series. 
 yup. if they release another prince of Persia i hope they would bring some of the old stuff back 
 into the game with a more interesting story line and a lot of action. and i also think that they 
 could have done a lot more on the graphics. i am not saying that the graphics are weak but it could 
 have been a lot better. that is why this one is my least favorite Prince Of Persia but what can 
 i say my brother bought it for me so i had to play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SAS-Ronin
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 21, 2009 9:13 am PT
Review:  The good - The visual detail and style of animation in this game are incredible. It is like being 
 in control of an anime movie and it is beautiful in that regard.
  
  
  
  The bad - Buggy camera and movement make this game frustrating. There are times when you can't 
 see where you are going or can only see a small area around your avatar. If the camera angle is 
 not lined up with the intended direction of movement (EXACTLY) , you will move in the opposite direction. 
 
  
  Game play is repetitive... heal one area, collect orbs, move to next area and repeat. The characters 
 never really move forward or develop at all. They are like models,... visually appealing but no 
 substance.
  
  The story is horrendous! I won't go into detail, but it had a lot of potential and it is horribly 
 wasted in the end. It's got to be the WORST game ending I've ever experienced. Like they got to 
 the end of development and ran out of time. (I'd hate to think they actually took time to consider 
 the ending the way it is!)
  
  Combat system is boring and repetitive. You basically have three or four moves and you have to 
 time them appropriately.
  
  
  Conclusion - This game is worth a rental if you want to see some really stunning animation. If 
 you are looking for a game with a good story and replay value, buy Fable II. My favorite part of 
 this game (as far as playing it) was collecting the orbs and figuring out how to get to them. If 
 they had concentrated on this aspect of the game it would have been much better. As it stands, 
 the graphics are the only bright spot on this otherwise dull, repetitive tragedy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: paullywog
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 20, 2009 7:10 pm PT
Review:  This game is great. I haven't played many recent action adventure games because let's face it, 
 Tomb Raider is getting old and what else is there?
  
  Prince of Persia boasts gorgeous graphics and a semi-open world. You'll find yourself working with 
 Elika (spelling?) to rid the world of evil. Ok, so the story isn't the most original we've seen 
 from a game, but it holds it together.
  
  First off, I have to say that I liked Sands of Time better. The combat has been changed, but once 
 you figure out there are really only 2 different combos, you'll realize it's just a waiting game 
 where you hold block until the enemy undoubtedly swings at you and you get your chance. Combat 
 is weaker here than in Sands of Time in my opinion.
  
  The biggest plus about this game is the exploration. You will travel through some seriously breathtaking 
 environments, especially after you heal a fertile ground (area guarded by a boss which when reached 
 will be cleansed of evil upon owning the boss) . After you heal the fertile ground, sun splashes 
 across everything and lively plants, grasses, and butterflies sway around you. Some of the best 
 artistic graphics in recent memory. Light seeds will keep you exploring and just taking in all 
 the scenic vistas will keep you staring for longer than you would expect.
  
  The game's biggest con to me is that it is kind of repetitive. I can only get myself to play it 
 for an hour or two before I need to take a break. I love the game, but traveling from area to area 
 is always the same "run along this wall, jump across, repeat" scenario. 
  
  One of the biggest gripes I have heard people say about this game is that it's too easy. I hate 
 hearing that, because in all actuality, the only thing they've done is eliminate loading screens. 
 When you find yourself in trouble, Elika will whisk you to safety and give you another shot at 
 whatever you're doing. If this happens whilst fighting an enemy, their health regains, so really, 
 it's just like a quick load feature without needing to push any buttons. I don't see this difficulty 
 thing being an issue.
  
  I wouldn't know how the game controls with mouse and keyboard, as it controls beautifully with 
 a 360 controller so I see no reason to try anything else. 
  
  I don't mean to bring up everything bad about the game, but if you are looking for a gorgeous action 
 adventure platformer, you already know all the good things to expect from this game : lots of exploration, 
 collectibles to keep you searching, beautiful scenery. If you've been wanting a game like this, 
 I recommend you check it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Miroku32
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 20, 2009 12:33 pm PT
Review:  It has been like 3 years since Ubisoft released their last title of the Sands of time trilogy and 
 now they release a new Prince of Persia with new characters and story.
  
  The game starts when the new Prince is looking for his donkey Farah and then he meets a girl called 
 Eiika running from some guards, the Prince follows her and help her and then they join forces for 
 enter a temple and heal the land from corruption. The story is interesting but not like the Sands 
 of time trilogy but still it makes a good story for a game that makes you be playing the game till 
 you finish it.
  
  The graphics are wonderful and great, at first you will see the land all gray and dead till you 
 heal them defeating a guy like a boss, then you will see places that are just wonderful and gorgeous.
 
  
  In the gameplay area the Prince will have almost like the same movements like the Prince of the 
 Sands of time but now he has more movements like moving of the roof, now in this game you will 
 not miss the rewind time from the last games, instead of the time everytime you fall Elika will 
 save you from a certain death and you will start again in the latest platform you were, also this 
 happens in the fights making you like inmortal, also this game is non linear so you can choose 
 whatever way you want for complete it
  
  The fight system returns with the combos and now you will have attack with your gauntlet, sword 
 and also Elika magic making some awesome combos out there and instead of being multicombat now 
 it is only one enemy at a time but depending on your skill it can be short or take some time.
 
  
  Overall the game is good and a great addition to the PoP franchise, its a shame that you cant die, 
 they could have evaded that by putting a difficulty setting but still is great, lets hope that 
 Ubisoft adds that in their next game of Prince of Persia. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: freudlacan
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 18, 2009 1:18 pm PT
Review:  Really How cares if you cant die?
  
  I dont play games to die, I play games to have fun, lots of fun, and prince of Persia gave me 
 just that. I just cant let my hands go out of the controls till i finished the game, yes that 
 a good game, a game that keeps you going and going.
  
  Also I was really tired of the darkish games, so this is not absolutely light game but the fun 
 its that you bring the light into the darkness, beautiful graphics, nice history thats what I 
 spectate from a game.
  
  OK I don't give it a 10 just cause I like some more swearing in a game, the game its so "E" for 
 everyone, that sometimes I would like it to be a little nastier.
  
  I insist in the you cant die feature, but that dont means that you wont have to repeat some courses 
 when you fail them, but that you are no restating from God knows when you did your last save game 
 or the game auto saved, but just from the last ledge you were standing. So if you like a very frustrating 
 game that gets you back to the beginning of a level when you get a phone call and missed pressing 
 the right button then this is not a game for you, but if you just want to keep playing and playing 
 and having fun till the end of a game, buy this game right away.
  
  Theres also one more feature why cant give this game a 10 and its the xbox360 pad monopoly, Something 
 have to be made out of this, you cant obliterate me to buy this control when I have a great control 
 pad, and even when I got to manage to use set the keys into it there was no vibration feature, 
 I hate that, and every game that comes out seems to be a xbox360 controller only, there are laws 
 against monopoly and they have to be put into use!
  
  Anyway like a said in the title beautiful, funny, easy this is my kind of game, just a little childish 
 but still if they keep the saga I would keep playing it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lol384
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 1, 2009 5:55 pm PT
Review:  The game had good gameplay but its to easy!!!!!!! I am not one of the people who hate the game 
 but when you start off it's hard to memorize what green is yellow is etc. (On PC) The graphics 
 voices sound effects and music is amazing especially with me skullcandys. I don't like how if your 
 stuck some little orb directs you where to go even though it can help and also people are against 
 the girl i was until i found out about the checkpoints (keep in mind ive only played for an hour 
 so far) which isn't so bad. Overall the game is good and I cant wait to play more. 9.0 AND PEOPLE 
 DONT CRITIZE MY SCORE CAUSE I LOVE POP GAMES... Also i recomend buying or useing the 360 controller 
 it makes playing the game much easier
  
  
  needs to be 800 characters so ill talk abit about the dif between this and sands of time 
  
 
  Sands of time
  Pros: Stopping time for a little bit is good, Can always use sword
  Cons: I found the controls a bit weird maybe its just me
  
  Prince Of Persia
  Pros: Good story 
 line, great fights, awesome graphics
  Cons: Too easy, light orb thingy can guide you 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nailex
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 14, 2009 1:52 am PT
Review:  1. Graphics - 8/10
  2. Sound - 9/10
  3. Bugs, Glitches & Exploits - 10/10
  4. Story - 9/10
  5. Gameplay - 6/10
  6. The Prince and Elika -10/10
  
  
  1. The graphics 
 may looks like a little strange as they are like taken from a comic books instead of an actually 
 3D animation. I can't say it is bad. The games looks good enough and have on of the most stable 
 frame rates I've seen in a game so far.
  2. The voice acting is incredible. The music is with oriental motives which really gives you the 
 feel that you are somewhere in Ancient Persia.
  3. None. Not a single exploit or bug or crash. Good job. Though with such simple gameplay... exploits 
 are hard to done
  4. I personally liked the story. It is a pretty common one - The Good God against the Evil God. 
 It is not something so complicated with plot twists and something like that. You wonder why i give 
 it 9 then? Because of the way the story is told and because of its end. 
  5. Perhaps the weakest link in the chain called Prince of Persia - The gameplay. Most of the time 
 you will be running around jumping and doing acrobatics while collecting lights seeds. I know this 
 is the formula which made Super Mario so famous but after all it is 2008. The game is relatively 
 easy as well. Mostly because of the new checkpoint system called Elika :) As you all know quicksaving 
 and quickloading are one of the most pressed buttons while played such action adventure games. 
 Mostly because of the crappy camera those games usually have. In the PoP 2008 Elika is the solution 
 to this. Whenever you do a wrong jump and fall to your death or are in danger of being killed by 
 the enemy Elika just uses her magics to save your *** and returns you to the last safest position 
 you have been. She is basically an automatic quick save - quick load girl ;) At some times this 
 makes the game kinda easy though as you being afraid of death. Apart from this nice life saving 
 functions Elika have almost perfect AI. She will never get on your way and at some point of the 
 game she and the Prince start to work like a real duo. There is not way you won't like here.
  
  6. This is perhaps the most memorable Prince from all the Prince's so far. If we can call him 
 prince at all. The only person i can compare him as original and cool quotes is Dante from Devil 
 May Cry. I've walked and pressed the talking button almost all the time. The dialogs between him 
 and Elika are one of the things which motivated me to play the whole game. I advice you not to 
 skip any dialog. When you see the icon saying she have something to tell you press the button and 
 enjoy. Elika is quite a girl as well. Ubisoft have managed to do great work with the expressions 
 of both characters. You can almost feel the feelings of both the Prince and Elika. You begin to 
 care for both of them and stop looking at them as just two characters in a game. Very few games 
 have managed to do so. (The only one I've played so far is Witcher)
  
  Anyway... I've made quite a long review and my thoughts are sometimes really hard to follow (especially 
 with mine not so good English ) - With two words - I recommend you to play this game. Because It 
 is FUN - and that's the point of games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bnwchbammer
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 13, 2009 10:13 pm PT
Review:  Now, I've played the Prince of Persia: Sands of Time, and I really wasn't expecting much to be 
 different. I did not finish the Sands of Time, but I got the hang of the gameplay, and picked up 
 on the storyline for what it was worth. I was extremely pleased at the presentation of the game. 
 The interesting, sort of cell shaded graphics were a wonder to look at all game, and worked extremely 
 well. 
  
  The storytelling in the game was extremely interesting. There was talking between the Prince and 
 Elika - your partner throughout the game - but you could decide when to talk to her. There was 
 a button to hit to talk, and sometimes it made sense, while other times it didn't. But, overall, 
 it worked quite well. The Prince is hilarious... well up until the end, but I won't ruin it for 
 you. 
  
  Now, onto probably the most important part, the gameplay. If you're used to Prince of Persia, the 
 platforming isn't hard to do at all, but the fighting is completly different. Let's focus on the 
 platforming aspect first. Now, there are a few things to be said about this, so I'll start off 
 with the most suprising. You cannot die. Nope, no death at all throughout the entire game. And 
 it's definently not a bad thing. There is quite a bit of trial and error in the game, but with 
 no fear of death, it allows you to experiment, and get a path down just right. Another cool aspect 
 of the platforming was the plates that Elika could use. Each one of 4 has a different kind of ability, 
 and allows you to reach places you normally wouldn't. Now, there is always a sort of chiseled out 
 texture in every single wall that basically holds your hand to where you have to go. Sometimes 
 it's a good thing, and sometimes you just want to try things yourself. It didn't bother me much, 
 but I could see how it would be a turn off for people. The final little part is that there are 
 a few bugs and glitches, that dont usually disrupt the gameplay, but they really should have gotten 
 the game perfect, but hey what are ya gonna do? Alright, so onto the fighting aspect. Now, all 
 of your fights will be one on one... well more of two on one. Most of fighting is trying to pull 
 off the longest possible combos, or using the environment to your advantage. Nearly every move 
 can be chained in a frenzy of animations. It looks extremely cool when you throw an enemy to the 
 air, hit him to the ground, and kick him off the edge. The environments are based off the preference 
 of the bosses, and the bosses have their own cool personalities. Another interesting thing is that, 
 after entering a specific area in the boss's section, a new obstacal will form in the world that 
 makes the game gradually harder.
  
  The audio in the game gets... a tad annoying after a while. The music is great, and goes with the 
 game perfectly, but Elika repeats the same spells over and over every time she does anything. Its 
 not all bad though, since the voice acting is great, and very believable.
  
  
  So finally, I'll break it down.
  
  Graphics: 10: Extremely great to look at, and wonderful 
 environments create an amazing experience.
  
  Gameplay: 8.5: With so much to the game, it's hard to get everything perfect, and a few bugs and 
 glitches really lowered the score on this. Don't let it be a turn off though, its still amazing. 
 Another thing not mentioned is that the actual game is quite short.
  
  Sound: 9: Good voice acting, but annoying repetition of spells makes it a little bit of a turn 
 off.
  
  Storytelling: 10: The best story in gaming I've experienced in gaming for quite a while. The Prince's 
 humor is great, and the ending is incredible.
  
  Final comments: Hey, if you like platformers, pick it up. If you like a great story pick it up. 
 Really, this is a must play.
  
  (Sorry for my bad spelling, Peace) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rock_a_sam
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 13, 2009 10:06 pm PT
Review:  The storyline is much weaker than the previous POP series... Doesn't give that effect of haste 
 and speed, even though the gameplay is pretty fast... Action sequences are pretty flashy and awesome, 
 but the characterization doesn't suit the chronology... The Prince himself is a warrior who keeps 
 cracking lame jokes... Can u imagine that?... Even Elika, who is supposed to be this awesome magic-user, 
 isn't particularly strong character...
  
  When compared with it's predecessor, POP: The Two Thrones, this game doesn't live up to the expectations 
 of the series...
  
  The concept of the Darkness is brilliant, but the plot seems to be very straight-forward... Go 
 here, fight that, save the world... Bummer...
  
  But if one thinks back, quite similar were some of the flaws of the first game of the previous 
 POP series as well; POP: The Sands of Time. So hopefully, if Ubisoft is planning a sequel, they'd 
 improve on the flaws of this game...
  
  Overall, good game for an action fanatic, but needed more work on the story... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: osama_aza
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 13, 2009 2:02 am PT
Review:  Ok from where should I start, will the game is great and all but it is very easy that it made it 
 so ridicules for the players as basically you cant die, the new combat style is very original as 
 there is a second character who can help you with it, but still you cant do the great compos that 
 was there in the 3rd release of the game on the PS2 and PC.
  
  Now let's talk about the technical stuff:
  
  1. The Graphic is very cool using the sunshade 
 style for this series was a very great option.
  2. The Music is excellent and very relaxing you should be.
  3. The sound effect is great.
  
 4. The combat style would be amazing if it wasn't too easy.
  5. The game play is great as you go for part to part to get the power so beet the game.
  
  
 All in all if you are looking for a new POP game I don't recommend this one go for the first 3 
 ones on the Ps2 or the PC but you have to buy a game pad for the PC and play them by there order 
 of the release, this one should have made it though if it was a bit more difficult or the price 
 has more of his original nature play.
  
  Wish to have given you what you want, as this is the end of my review.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Furnish
Rating: 4
Date: Jan 11, 2009 8:11 am PT
Review:  Ubisoft Ended Year 2008 With a Dreadful presentation with Prince of Persia 2008. There is no Sign 
 of the rigorous puzzles, and Where is the Intense Combats that the series has become known for. 
 The Surroudings are Fake as well as the game-play. Game-control is a joke, it is automatic. 
  
  The Graphics of Prince of Perisa 2008 is Aweful, comparing to the previous POP series. Seems 
 like you are hovering through a comic book strip. 
  
  The Boss Fight doesn't appear to be Boss Fights at all. The Boss are a Joke, no wonder they are 
 corrupted and was Trapped Thousands of Years.
  
  And Who is the Prince of Persia again. He is not A Prince. He used to be a Tomb Raider, searching 
 For His Donkey. More Like a Thief. 
  
  And the Ending was A Rear-Ender For Sure. What was is again?, does not feel like it ended. "What 
 is a Grain in a Sand Storm?" They asked in the end. Why there will be Grain in a Desert ANYWAY 
 "HEEELLLOOO. anybody THERE"
  
  Please People, I recommand you........ To Believe What I say! Thank You. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pc4ever
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 10, 2009 11:24 pm PT
Review:  You play as the Prince lost in the middle of a sand storm and looking for his ass.... (donkey) hehehe 
 named Farah. He then stumbles upon a beautiful Princess Elika who is chased by royal guards which 
 you must fend off to rescue her from danger. The Princess then explain her predicament in restoring 
 the Tree of Life to imprison the god-like Ahriman back inside the Tree of Life, there lies the bases 
 of your mission. You and Elika together must travel the fertile land which are corrupted and now 
 must restore them back to there original green life colors. This version the the game you traverse 
 the environment with your mysterious gauntlet which give you the ability to slow your descent as 
 you move around the lofty and spacious locations.
  Elika in this game assist you in just about any time you call for help, by pressing the correct 
 button she will boost your jumps or guide you to the correct path and will also help defeat enemy 
 in battle. The mechanics of the game are smooth and precise and do follow a timing of jumps and 
 attack moves. The visual look of the game they use I think it's call cel-shading which gives the 
 look of a artistic feel with vivid colors .There are a few draw backs to this game, first the lack 
 of cut scene most of which Elika explain verbally what has happen to her and her fathers kingdom. The 
 puzzles in the game were not that challenging or as many.
  
  Graphics = 9.0
  Audio = 8.0 Voice = 7.0
  Game play = 8.0
  Final Score = Pretty Good!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ky9
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 9, 2009 7:24 pm PT
Review:  I have to say I'm pretty disappointed in this game, which is sad because I was really looking forward 
 to it before it came out. I'll say I was very impressed with the graphics when I first saw them, 
 and the way everything was very fluidly animated. I was especially impressed with Elika and the 
 way she interacted with the Prince. She pretty much made the game for me because honestly, without 
 her it would have been rather boring.
  
  I'll admit that I haven't actually finished the game, and the honest reason is that I'm just not 
 motivated to. Sure it's fun to see the Prince swing like a monkey from pole to pole or across rooftops, 
 and the combat's not terrible or anything. It's fun to string together some combos and see what 
 they look like. The thing is, after about 4 or 5 hours of immersive gameplay, the repetitiveness 
 becomes pretty apparent. Ok, I'm setting a new destination... where I'll fight some more monsters.... and 
 swing across some more poles... chitchat with Elika some more.... collect glowing things.... and the 
 story is nowhere near good enough to motivate me to see the end. An evil god on the loose? Just 
 throw me another Tomb Raider any day now. And the fact that Elika saves you from dying sounds cool 
 at first, but this quickly becomes just routine. In fact, I never once felt any sort of excitement 
 or apprehension whilst playing this game.
  
  It's possible that all this ho-hum-ness comes from the fact that easy controls were so much the 
 focus of the game that you lose any sort of sense of accomplishment. Sure I just did an awesome 
 wall run, but all I did was press jump and I didn't even have to press the right arrow key. This 
 is coming from someone who is not even a hardcore gamer who needs an insane challenge to be satisfied. 
 To put it briefly: the novelty wears off quickly.
  
  So: Graphics? Excellent. Gameplay? Decent. Music? Good. Story? Meh. All in all, this game is all 
 it's hyped up to be; just turns out that even that's not enough. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: diioz
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 8, 2009 10:58 pm PT
Review:  I never played the old versions of Pop, but when I saw the charismatic visuals of this game I said 
 to myself ; wow, this story is going to be beautiful. And it was. This game makes you travel alot 
 and that's one of an adventure. Prince is the guy everyone would like, Elika too, characters development 
 was great through all the game. The story was fine and well done. Simple and short. Something I 
 really appreciated was that you could never die... I know that most of you would say this is odd 
 and easy... but when you die in games, you usually got to restart a part of the game, of the story. 
 Sometimes twice or more.. and this is getting annoying, it cuts the reality of the adventure making 
 you want to skip a thing or two. I had problems pressing the right button at the right time, showing 
 a symbol that I couldn't associate with a key after a couples of tries. Traveling into lands made 
 me ask this question ; Am I playing Sonic The Hedgehog ? When it rolled fast it was of the same 
 kind. You could just run and go then press the needed button. Not seeing whats coming next wouldn't 
 stop you at all. Battles were repetitive. I wished you could have fought several enemies at the 
 same time. Not much of difference, even the Boss's were almost as easy and the same to kill as 
 anything else in the game. Different fights, different attacks would have enhanced the game alot. 
 Puzzle were useless... developers should have thought of something different or just not making 
 any. I didn't like to have to do all the levels again to seek these lights, I just wanted to go 
 further in the game. I felt myself alone during all the story, no npc, just the boss's, not a single 
 living thing all along. To make it short this game was great, more a platform game then an adventure 
 game with a great story and lovely character. Hope sequels are going to get rid off the repetitive 
 stuff. Give it a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: loki_rj
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 8, 2009 9:12 pm PT
Review:  Few releases can split the opinion of their traditional fanbases with the ferocity this new PoP 
 has. When word came that the new game would use stylized graphics, with its story set completely 
 away from the 'Sands of Time' script, half the fans yelled out in protest. Hell, I was one of them. 
 I had grown fond of the arabic gorefest that was the first game, with enemies being beheaded only 
 to fade out in clouds of sands. It had an 'Arabian Nights' feeling unlike any game I've ever played, 
 and that status remains. The new PoP, steps completely away from all that, to the point that you'll 
 hardly even tell that it's a game set in the 'arab world'. And while many franchises met their 
 end at such radical change, Prince of Persia lives on, as it had many times before.
  
  As I said, there's not a single shred of the Sands of Time storyline (apart from your lost donkey, 
 named Farah) . And the new plot involving the eternal struggle between two Babylonian gods (Ormadz, 
 god of light, and Ahriman, god of darkness) is slightly confusing at first. Yet, that cannot be 
 considered a flaw, as it's only presumable that with an introduction to a new series (trilogy, 
 so I've heard) , slight confusion will always happen. The story, at first empty, will develop around 
 the two main characters: the Prince (not really a prince) , and Elika, the most charismatic female 
 character in the series so far. Their tale, their humorous bickering, their arguments and their 
 (of course) growing affection for each other guide each and every turn of the story into its innexorable 
 final chapter. We all see the end coming with about 2/3 of the game played, and as I watched the 
 credits roll, and saw the additional play, my mouth opened wide, as I witnessed the most fantastic 
 ending to ever grace my computer screen. If to some the graphics and lack of blood through the 
 entire game was a move towards child-like mainstream culture, the final developments and its endings 
 are more adult, more mature than any other presented in the Prince of Persia frachise. I'm used 
 to feel 'moved' (don't take the word in the wrong context) by a game. Satisfaction, excitement, 
 sadness... I've witnessed them all in a game. They all pale when compared with the punch this game 
 throws at you. It leaves you bitting the end of your fingernails in anticipation and looking at 
 the Ubisoft website in hope to see any news of a sequel.
  
  And with such, it would have been a masterpiece, had not for some minor, but irritating gameplay 
 and camera problems. Out of the many plates you unlock throughout the game, each giving the Prince 
 and Elika some kind of power to help them reach different parts of the puzzle-like environments, 
 the flying one is the one that really kills you. I fail to imagine that in testing phase someone 
 at Ubisoft failed to see that without a centered cameral it takes a lot of effort to see which 
 direction you should dash towards to avoide obstacles, or that you even need to do so in the first 
 place. The Prince crashed his head in columns and walls many times during my game.
  
  Also, during fights, the camera is fixed and that leaves you with two problems:
  
  1) In certain 
 scenarios (particularly with the Alchemist) , you'll face the main boss in an arena-like structure 
 with column at its center, which occasionally obstructs your vision from the actual fighting (if 
 up-close) .
  
  2) What always happen when there is a game with colorful and bright combos: some times, the glowing 
 of the sword slash blinds you.
  
  You won't die from any of them, though. Perhaps because you can't die at all. Since this isn't 
 Sands of Time, game developers had to invent a way to give the player a second chance, as most 
 of the in-game stunts (from hanging from columns, through wall runs, 'double jumps', all the way 
 to ceiling crawling) are rather challenging (particularly if you're playing with your keyboard) . 
 Instead, Elika, your lovely partner, will always come to your rescue. In fights that means getting 
 your opponent off you (always giving him some of his energy back in return) , and in stunts, that 
 means grasping your wrists and flying you back to your previous fixed platform. That makes the 
 game very easy, but what Prince of Persia lacks in challenge (though you'll get that enough from 
 the plates) it more than makes up for in entertainment.
  
  Every piece of land is reached either by Elika's double jump or by the Prince's many stunts, and 
 that makes simple travels across the beautiful scenery masterful flows of movement that would make 
 Altair, from Assassin's Creed (an unlockable skin for the Prince) , die of shame. And the occasional 
 fight? (and I do mean occasional, for there are few enough enemies in the game) Well, they're dealt 
 with either by magical attacks from Elika, or sword slashes from the Prince, and preferably both. 
 The combo combinations are fantastic and beautiful, though, as with everything in the game, easy 
 to execute. E-E-Space-E-E will be enough to cause a serious damage to your foe, all with beautiful 
 acrobatic maneuvers and jumps.
  
  The Prince's interactions with Elika are one of the highlights of the game. The new PoP is quite 
 possibly the most cooperative single player game out there. After half an our of play, it's become 
 instinctive that a long jump must be done with Elika's help, and that while hanging from vines 
 the Prince will always wait and help Elika up his back. They work amazingly well together and your 
 charming female companion breaks the rule of sidekicks, in a way that she's considerably stronger 
 than the actual Prince, and instead of hindering your progress (like your character taking damage 
 in an attempt to save the sidekick) , she helps you every step of the way. That, combined with some 
 of the most humorous pieces of dialogue to ever be present in a game, makes their interaction, 
 as I've said before, the central pillar around which the game revolves.
  
  The gameplay is mouse/keyboard based and it unfortunately does not escape some of the mistakes 
 currently occuring in newest generation gaming consoles. At times you'll be asked to press a button 
 to save your skin, and that button will flash briefly (and I do mean briefly) at the bottom of 
 the screen. The button can be one of four different images to appear: a jumping man, a claw, an 
 open palm and sword, each representing different keys you need to press, occasionally repeatingly. 
 In my 360, it'd be easy, every button being within the reach of my thumb, and each the color of 
 the joystick button (I imagine it to be so) . On the keyboard, it's harder to tell which is which 
 (an open hand resembles the gauntlet) , and it's somewhat irritating to press repeatedly the left 
 mouse button when in a contest of strength.
  
  Still, as I've said, it's nothing that hasn't been done before (or rather frequently, actually) , 
 and in no way get in your way to enjoying the game. None of it does, frankly, and if you take those 
 games as standards, Prince of Persia (2008) is a class above them all. What stops it from being 
 a perfect 10 is that those common mistakes were not fixed. The Prince, unlike the official Gamespot 
 reviewer says, is not a let-down. He's in reality a much deeper character than that of the Sands 
 of Time trilogy, completely human and nowhere near being a hero. His flaws are part of the game 
 as much as Elika's powers, and in the sequel, I expect him to be the main focus, instead of Elika 
 (for reasons you'll understand once you finish) .
  
  It's not a masterpiece, but it goes pretty close to being one, for it takes the franchise to new 
 grounds and thrives. Apart from a bit of slow down (which had me, and my GeForece 9600, turn the 
 graphs to medium) in some of the wider scenarios, the game flows fast and fluently, with no loading 
 time and non-stop fun.
  
  It will take the name Prince of Persia to darker, more mature grounds, and like its ending shatter 
 everything that was conventional and expected. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sereka
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 8, 2009 9:21 am PT
Review:  Maybe the art graphics really are looking revolting in the first place, but when you play it, you 
 understand that it's just the way it has to be. Besides, POP needed something different and they 
 Ubisoft really did much work on it. I mean, it should bring a new light in the Prince of Persia world 
 and I think it might be a good start. True, it's very easy, but totally worth playing. In addition, I 
 liked the Sands of Time trilogy better than this one. It's still missing something. Oh, and don't 
 forget to try the POP SOT trilogy-you won't be disappointed.
  By the way, the new Prince really does have his ego and it's really big. I mean, he lights up the 
 game in funny way. That's one of the reasons why you should play POP (2008) .
  The other thing is that there are a lot of easy combat styles you can do without thinking:"Damn, I 
 forgot which button next!". No hard work will be necessary to do a beautiful combat dancing with 
 your lovely companion Elika.
  Anyway, try it-it's worth your time (Hey, it will only be about 20 hours-that doesn't mean anything 
 to you, does it?) .
  
  Good luck.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: toxicsquall
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 7, 2009 4:27 am PT
Review:  I like it so much, but its too easy comparing the others games of Prince of Persia series. This 
 games shows you another prince and another revolutionary gameplay trought the desert and the story 
 that it save. In this game you can't die! This make it so easy and to lost the fun. Its like you 
 are playing with cheat codes of invencibility. In the other way, i like too much of the grafics 
 and the story. The battle reaction is amazing! You can performe a several moves and this make you 
 more exciting about the fight. The lights seed that you can collect is the worse thing of it and 
 at the same time the thing that making you still playing the game. This is so hard to get all them, 
 and its harder than catch all the pokemons. But getting all this give you a honor that you are 
 not as usual players... you are superior! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wakin
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 3, 2009 7:37 pm PT
Review:  Oh boy I have already completed the game with 1,001 light seeds and are re-playing the game just 
 for plain fun. This game is indeed revolutionary in the following sense:
  
  (1) Use of beautifully painted animation which differentiates itself from the pack;
  (2) Controls 
 are easy to execute and the prince is extremely agile (unlike Lara Croft in the latest Tomb Raider 
 Underworld. That's an understatement!)
  (3) The combat system has been modified from the first Prince of Persia Sands of Time and Assassin's 
 Creed. It is now one-to-one combat and I simply adore the blocking move of the prince whenever 
 the enemy launches a counterattack. It takes a quick eye and instant reflexes to be able to block 
 the attack. Cool!
  
  A lot of people will probably be complaining about how easy the game is. Indeed you will never 
 get to "die" in the game and there is no "Game Over" screen. Hey the idea of immortality is great 
 and I love it. Nonetheless, the game is plain fun and suitable for children of all ages. Perhaps 
 the developers may wish to consider setting different difficulty levels to suit all taste. 
  
  Cool graphics, great moves and a stunning ending! Prince of Persia the sequel here I come! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sun_rider95
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 3, 2009 11:30 am PT
Review:  We all played Prince of Persia series and every time we did it ,it was fantastic, it was amazing. Every 
 Prince of Persia had a great story, great action and a great graphic but not this one. For this 
 Prince of Persia I'll say that it has no fun, something is not right, the story maybe, the characters 
 maybe or the design but one thing remains the action: climbing walls , making crazy stunts and 
 more. My opinion is that for the Prince Of Persia series is best to keep The Sands Of Time story, the 
 thing that you can not change your destiny,, that you will fall. We all thought that this will be 
 the best game of the year when we heard it is going to be made, but when we first played it we 
 had a headache. I think all that keeps me form deleting this games is the action, which I'll say 
 it again it is superb. So for Ubisoft I'll say that if they are going to make another game like 
 this, instead of making another true Prince Of Persia THEY ARE GOING TO LOSE SOME MONEY.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gilanor
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 3, 2009 11:25 am PT
Review:  I have not played any Prince of Persia game since the original 2D platformer so this is not a comparative 
 review with the Sands of Time trilogy.
  
  Summary: First things first, Prince of Persia is a VERY easy game by any standard. It will take 
 no more than 10 hours to complete and will provide few challenges to anyone with any experience 
 at gaming. However, in my opinion, this is not necessarily a bad thing. I have reached the point 
 where I can no longer devote hours of my life to a single level in a game. I want to pick a game 
 up, play it as a fun way of passing a few hours and then put it down again. I'm not playing for 
 the challenge any more.
  
  So I really enjoyed Prince of Persia, it felt like the game was moving me a long at a good pace 
 and after about 3 days of playing on and off I got to the end and thought, that was fun and uninstalled 
 it.
  
  Platforming: Bit by bit the game presents you with the 4 or 5 different platforming techniques 
 that you will use to get through the whole game. It is always completely obvious what you should 
 be doing and where you should be going (due in part to the fact that Elika will highlight the path 
 you should take if you ask her) . I don't think I ever had to try more than twice to go through 
 a section of the game and considering that I haven't ever played a 3D platformer before that should 
 tell you something.
  
  Fighting: Fights are always one on one and are essentially a test of your reflexes. You can parry 
 an opponents blow by pressing the right button at the right time and that puts you on the offensive. 
 A couple of attacks will then push your opponent to the edge of the platform and you kill them. 
 Like the rest of the game, these battles are very easy. A lapse in concentration is the only thing 
 that will make them go badly.
  
  Boss battles are a slightly different ball game. They are still a test of your reflexes but occasionally 
 you do have to think and choose some tactics. Mostly though, it is still a case of pressing the 
 right button at the right time then getting a couple of hits in before waiting to parry again. 
 If the prince was able to die then I think these battles would be very frustrating but as it is 
 they are just time consuming. I found it relatively enjoyable as the battles didn't come around 
 that often and testing my reflexes against the game was as close to a challenge as I really wanted.
 
  
  Graphics: A lot of people who are used to games like Oblivion and Fallout with wide sweeping landscapes 
 and carefully (but often badly) animated characters will find this a little odd. The prince and 
 princess are cell shaded sprites on a rendered background. Each of the four locations feels and 
 looks beautiful and returning to cell shaded sprites gives a very artistic look to the game. I 
 personally really enjoyed the graphics on medium settings. This is one part of the game which is 
 progressive and made me challenge my ideas of what a good game should look like.
  
  Sound: Appropriate but nothing special.
  
  Story: The story is a little silly as is the case 
 in almost all modern games. What I liked was that the game didn't take itself too seriously. Some 
 such as Oblivion or GTA do take themselves seriously and with the exception of The Witcher I have 
 never found a game with a story which warranted that. The one thing really worth a mention is the 
 ending. I didn't really find the game particularly immersive, however, when I genuinely got annoyed 
 at the game for forcing me into the ending path that it did. I wanted a choice but wasn't given 
 one because the game wanted to tell me something about the Prince's character. 
  
  Voice acting/ Dialogue: Of all the things that ruin a fun game this is my least favourite. Poor 
 voice acting and clich jokes really grate. The people writing this game might have thought that 
 the Prince's lines were funny but frankly they weren't. The voices themselves were average as games 
 go but were really let down by the poor humour. The development of the relationship between the 
 Prince and Elika was actually best carried by the looks and expressions rather than by the voices.
 
  
  Overall impressions: Despite the games failings (and perhaps BECAUSE of its simplicity) I had an 
 enjoyable few days playing through the main story. I rarely (if ever) play a game more than once 
 so I won't come back to it but I recommend it for anyone who plays games for entertainment rather 
 than as a serious hobby.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: brain20035
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 2, 2009 11:55 am PT
Review:  When PoP: The Sands of Time was released I finished it with an indescribable enthusiasm. I loved 
 the sequel, Warrior Within, but the 2nd sequel didn't satisfy my expectations.
  Now PoP is back with a new story line and a completely revamped setting with the focus of the gameplay 
 heavily on the platforming rather than the combat parts.
  It is a good thing to see how Ubisoft achieved such a beautiful and artistic world using a never 
 seen before art style. the gameplay is cool. you can do many things. the only problem is that it's 
 too easy. sometimes too easy that becomes frustrating! I liked it anyways, and although it wasn't 
 a top notch, the story was OK as well.
  I come from Iran and there is Persian blood in my veins :D
  It was so wonderful to see Elika 
 do magic works. you know why? because all the magic words that she whispers are in Farsi language! 
 sentences like "MASIR RA NESHAN BEDE" which means "show the way" in English or "DAR KHEDMAT-E ORMAZD" 
 which means "At the service of Ormazd" in English and so on so forth...
  Farsi means Parsi and Parsi means Persian in English. Parsi was changed to Farsi when Arabs took 
 over Persia 1400 years ago, during which era Persians official language turned to Arabic : (. when 
 we finally drove them out we started speaking Farsi again, but it was hard to change back completely 
 becaue of the vast population. Enough with the history lessons anyways!
  Ubisoft has certainly put some good time and work into this game. play it, and you won't be disappointed 
 :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DJSanat
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 2, 2009 4:40 am PT
Review:  LADIES AND GENTLEMEN BOYS AND GIRLS........ LIST GOES WILD! YES I DOES GOES WILD! WHY BCOZ WE HAV 
 ANOTHER PRINCE GAME BUT IN A "COOLER AVATAR"! BLIVE THE HYPE ENRAGE YOUR MIND SET YOUR SWORD CHECK 
 YOUR MAGICAL SPELLLS...... WHAT? MAGICAL SPELLS? YES FREINDS MAGICAL SPELL! TIME FOR THE GAME OF HYPE!
 
  
  AIN'T TRASH TALKIN BUT COMING STRAIGHT TO TOPIC...... HERE ARE SOME PROS AND CONS....
  
  
  PROS:
  DEEP AND IMMERSIVE GAMEPLAY
  GREAT NEW "POSTERIZED" LOOK OF CHARACTER
  GREAT 
 STORY
  NEW GREAT SPELLS AND ENHANCED COMBAT
  COMICAL AND COOLER PRINCE
  ELIKA PROVES TO BE GREAT TOOO
  DUAL ACTION GAMEPLAY
  
  CONS:
  PRINCE DOESN'T FIT IN "GREAT"
 
  VERY VERY EASY
  EASINESS IRITATES!
  
  NOW........
  
  ABOUT THE GAME.......
  YOU ARE JUST A RAIDER WHO RAID PEOPLE OFF AND IS SEARCHING FOR FARAH WHO IS........ A DONKEY CARRYING 
 GOLD! YOU SEARCH FOR IT IN DESERT AN' COMES IN CONTACT WITH ELIKA WHO IS PRINCESS....... HER FATHER 
 WANTS ELIKA TO BE DEVOTEE OF DARK GOD........ THEY GO 2 TEMPLE IN SEARCH OF THIS POLACE WHERE DARK 
 GOD IS TRAPPED AN' EVENTUALLY IT RELEASES IT SELF (THNX TO "MR. FATHEROF ELIKA!" NOW ELIK AN' "PRINCE" 
 HAV TO SAVE THE WORLD........... ACTUALLY ONLY KINGDOM FROM DESTRUCTION! REST YU FIND YOURSELF!
 
  
  
  PRINCE DOESN'T FIT IN "GREAT"
  VERY VERY EASY
  EASINESS IRITATES!
  
  NOW........
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: onlyforthetrnty
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 1, 2009 3:34 pm PT
Review:  O. k. fine, you do walk around, and about 20% of the game you fight, but seriously though, all you 
 do is jump around obstacles. Don't get me wrong, if you could string together beautiful combos 
 of movement and have the freedom to traverse anywhere, I would love the game! But sadly, everything 
 is linear (You can't explore) . Everything is pretty much drawn out for you, and it's very clear 
 which way you can go. The worse part of it all is that there is no creativity in reaching an area; 
 there is one set way to get there and you have to follow that way, (Even though this is a vivid 
 platforming game) . On the other hand, the combat sequences are pretty good though, (though stringing 
 up combos can be a little confusing) and I have mixed feelings about how you can never die. Overall, 
 I think Gamespot got it right when they gave Prince of Persia (2008) a score of 8. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zorlac0666
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 1, 2009 12:25 pm PT
Review:  I was probably what you would call a mild fan of this series, and I decided to pick up Steam's 
 Prince of Persia deal pack (all the recent games) . So after downloading this overnight last night, 
 and starting play today, I only have one real word for this game so far. WOW!
  
  Now keeping in mind that I've only unlocked one power so far (so I'm not very far in yet) , this 
 game is nothing short of simply gorgeous. Every single move of the prince, and Elika is nothing 
 but pure art in motion. From the blue trails of magic that Elika leaves, her flowing blouse, the 
 spark from the Prince's gauntlet as it scrapes across walls, it's pure eye overload as you watch 
 these two run from place to place.
  
  Controlling them is beauty in motion as well. Keep in mind with my writing this I use a wired Xbox 
 360 controller to play this on the PC with, and it works wonderfully. Every time I die (or get 
 rescued rather) I feel like it's my fault, and not a fault of bad game design. From running, and 
 climbing walls to crawling across ceilings in a very Spiderman-esque fashion it all feels very 
 natural, and very fun. Honestly one of my reservations was how well controlling the two characters 
 would work with the way the PoP games normally play, but that was blown away as soon as I started. 
 Elika isn't cumbersome in the least bit, if you're hanging on a narrow ledge, and need to get to 
 the other side of her, it's accomplished by the Prince simply flipping her to his other side, and 
 moving on. Using her to double jump is also poetry in motion. All in all the traveling is some 
 of the most enjoyable I've done in a game in a long time. It's simply fun to explore the levels, 
 even with no real purpose in mind.
  
  
  Combat is also entertaining, simple, but still fun. Bosses, and most other enemies all have certain 
 strategies (which I won't divulge into here) , but suffice to say once you figure out how the combat 
 works, it's simply joyful when you run across an enemy. If there's one gripe I could make here 
 it's simply that there isn't enough combat. With that said though, what combat is there feels pretty 
 epic, and I'm guessing that was the way it's intended.
  
  Performance is another thing I was worried about. That was another worry that was smashed as soon 
 as I started running around. Seeing as the game was released the same day on PC, as it was on consoles 
 you knew it was programmed for the PC, from the ground up, and not just a simple port, and it shows. 
 Not one time have I seen a framerate drop due to too many effects on screen, nor have I had any 
 sort of input lag. I've even done a bit of recorded, which traditionally destroys the framerate 
 in graphics intensive games. Not here. The game ran smoothly at around 60fps constantly, and this 
 is with only an Geforce 8600 gts. I can only imagine it's even better with a better card.
  
  
  Overall I'm extremely pleased with the game, and I recommend it to any fan of the series 
 and to any fan of action/adventure games in general. I'll be enjoying this game for a long time 
 to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: narutospot
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 1, 2009 3:59 am PT
Review:  i have Prince of Persia on pc it is the best but i didnt have enough ram so i'm trying to get more. the 
 fighting system in the game was awsome you can do acrobatic moves magic moves (with your partner 
 Elika) in this prince of persia the has the strength to lift his enemies some of them. the platforming 
 is great with the Prince's new gaunlet (claw) you can scrape down buildings they are still wallrunning 
 and wall jumping there is a new extended jump where Elika boost your jump while she is flying. The 
 really weird thing about this game is you can't die if you fall of a building Elika will jump in 
 and save you if you about to get killed by your enemy you press on of the buttons on your controller 
 if you fail elika will use her magic to save you. if you fall to a pit of black goo Elika will save 
 you. So basicAlly Elika is the Prince's supergirl i haven't finshed the game but it is looking good 
 so far there are some puzzles but at the end you will figure it out. Finally the prince has a sense 
 of humor he tells the most funny jokes in the game i think this is the prince of persia so far. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShiroKitaHoshi
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 31, 2008 4:21 pm PT
Review:  Plot?....*rolls eyes*
  
  Don't buy this game for it's amazing plotline. It's cliche - and the comments between characters 
 get old. The ending left a lot to be desired as well. So yeah, next time they should hire some 
 new writers.
  
  Gameplay on the other hand.....
  
  Very fluid gameplay. Works well on the PC. The magic plates can be annoying, but you do get used 
 to them. The amazing artwork kept me hooked. The music sounded great at first, but it started bugging 
 me after a while. 
  
  Having Elika there makes the whole game more engaging. Like your not alone in this bizzare world 
 where black goo eats you. (I'm telling you, weird plotline)
  
  If I compared the acrobatics to Tomb Raider - this game is much much easier. That's a good and 
 bad thing. The fluid movement is fun, but after playing a while it gets to be old hat. 
  
  So if you want challenging acrobatics, buy Tomb Raider. The Prince is more adrenaline - how flawlessly 
 can you move through the level.
  
  NO DRM!
  And finally, I think this game is good to buy simply to support games released without DRM. We 
 throw our money in the direction of anti-DRM games and the game developers will follow. After all 
 - they are in this to make money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ErazemZ
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 31, 2008 3:47 am PT
Review:  The game seems stunning the first time you enter it. The sweet "cartoon" style graphics, the nice 
 animations, the combos. And of course Elika. As the prince himself says: "Nice top..."
  
  But later in the game, you realise that everything repeats itself. Although the game is kind off 
 sandbox style, it still isn't enough to make you feel, you can decide your destiny. There are the 
 non-linear missions, and only one possible outcome after a rather short story-line.
  
  An more, the fighting, that you first found so nice, is actually always the same moves. About 15 
 different combos and some different hits, acrobatic moves and Elika's magic. Nothing special! Leaves 
 me dead-cold in my seat...
  
  The movement hasn't been improved a lot. They just updated the graphics and skeleton movement. 
 But the basic appearance is the same. Again, I am dissapointed.
  
  Almost every aspect of the game is like this. Updated, but not innovative. It sure is OK, for the 
 game to keep the PoP spirit. That is important. Franchises must remain same within. But this here 
 is exactly the opposite. Old graphics style, new basic idea.
  
  For those Die-Hard PoP fans this will be excelent, but for every one seeking for new generation 
 games, this is just a game, that wont stun you.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: arijit_unreal
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 31, 2008 2:47 am PT
Review:  The Plot : You get to play as a man who is a tomb raider and steals gold from the dead to earn 
 a living (He is definitely NOT a prince... at least not yet) . He gets lost in the desert due to 
 a sand storm and out of strange circumstances he meets up with a beautiful princess, Elika, who 
 can also perform powerful magic. They soon discover that an evil god, Ahriman is trying to escape 
 and consume the world in darkness and thus their fate becomes entwined. Your goal is now clear 
 and you have to stop a god. With the magical powers of Elika you have to heal sacred places called 
 The Fertile Grounds located throughout the city thereby preventing evil to escape. And overcome 
 the great perils that lie in your path.
  
  The game play is very good. Fast and new acrobatics have been added to the game. Not to mention 
 the new combat system which I felt to be best in the series so far. You carry a sword and a gauntlet. 
 And you can use your combat moves in combination to that of Elika's magic attacks. No worries of 
 health, percentage damage or what so ever. Instead you'll be given a way to recover your strength. 
 When undamaged you can fight normally. When hurt the edges of the screen will be red. And if you 
 get seriously hurt a sequence of buttons that flash on the screen has to be pressed to recover 
 your strength. Failure to do so will push you back to last check point.
  
  I also the interaction sequence that can be manually triggered. So you can press a button and that 
 will start conversation which sometimes get funny and seems to be a nice break after a long run.
 
  
  The graphics seems to be very polished however the game seems to be somewhat 2D. It might have 
 been done to show off the brilliant art work but I preferred the last gen 3D look better.
  
  I still have no idea why the game is called "Prince" Of Persia as the lead character is not 
 a Prince. The game also lacks action. No more fighting hordes of enemies. You only get to fight 
 bosses. Minions appear rarely. So that's just one fight in each level or Fertile Ground.
  
  Final Conclusions : The game is very different from its predecessors. Ok. Except the fact that 
 there's a damsel in distress. Over all the game is very much enjoyable. The ending of the game 
 is unlike anything too. Just don't expect any thing thing from last gen POP series and things will 
 be fine. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: khanhn2k
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 31, 2008 1:43 am PT
Review:  Makes me remember about the oldie PoP when I was a child, the visual is absolutely beautiful, so 
 it's just fun to enjoy
  
  This version makes me remember about the old PoP when they made it easier to defeat the foes and 
 boss because I don't have much time so I just want something fun and easy to play, and this game 
 is very satisfactory. The visual is beautiful coz it's full of magnificent views, and lots of light 
 colors. The game is quite easy because you can make lots of mistakes and always have Erika saves 
 you, so just play it casually, and enjoy beautiful views. It's just plain adventure platform game, 
 lacking the quizzles. One thing is it's really fun to try to collect all the seeds when some seeds 
 appears in some ridiculous places, maybe because I haven't got all the skills needed to reach it 
 :D
  
  If you want to recall about the past and enjoy w/o having to try too hard, this game is suitable 
 for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Swiftstrike5
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 30, 2008 10:53 pm PT
Review:  I'd like to start off and say that the fact that you cannot die DOES NOT MAKE THIS GAME TOO EASY! 
 When you 'fall' your savior, Elika, takes you back to the nearest checkpoint, which isn't very 
 far away. I rather enjoy this aspect of the game actually. It makes sense that the hero should 
 never die. It's also nice to never re-do an entire segment of the game because you forgot to save. 
 Combat: Cinematic, but not challenging what-so-ever. All you have to do to win is spam the sword 
 attack and if the target ever strikes back you will see a 'block' icon and all you have to do is 
 hit it and continue chopping at their health.
  
  Platforming: There was quite an improvement in the platforming. It's much more enjoyable, although 
 a tad too easy. I felt myself hitting unnecessary buttons while going through several challenges 
 and they could have easily made it more difficult to appeal to players who want a challenge. The 
 platforming is also much, much more fluid. The magic platforms made the game much, much more interesting 
 compared to the original games.
  
  Story: Quite interesting storyline, but plagued with the same repetitive objective format of most 
 Ubi games. I really enjoyed the character development though. Listening to Elika and the Prince 
 slowly becoming friends was fantastic. Even a few funny remarks by the much more light-hearted 
 prince. Complaints: -Light Seeds... Worthless extension of the game. Quite frustrating to have 
 to revisit areas to collect 'seeds' to continue playing.
  -Combat is WAYYYYY too simplistic and easy. I miss running along a wall and chopping off heads. 
 Or jumping up in the air and throwing an axe into an enemy. -Enemies are extremely repetitive. 
 You fight the same enemy almost a dozen times.
  -Quick Kills. Just use Elika to knock one near a ledge and it dies (non-boss) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maladin4
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 29, 2008 1:33 pm PT
Review:  The game is a great addition to prince of persia series, it takes us to another world different 
 from the SOT series, this is for me, as a POP fan, a totally new exciting experience, including 
 new acrobatic moves of the prince and the powers of Elika and also the power plates, in my view, 
 Elika being a savior is a big advantage, as it provides a check point nearly every second, this 
 is a good change to previous triology from being trial & error game (especially in POP teh two 
 thrones) which extends the gameplay time and may lead to some frustration, to a completely streamline 
 game which guarantees non-stop amusement, the game has unique graphics and perfect environment, 
 the one-to-one battles and using of sword is more realistic, all that compensates the less challenge 
 this game may provide as it is relatively easy, but for POP lovers, this game is definitely fun 
 if they detached themselves from the previous triology storyline. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: antipunt1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 30, 2008 11:03 am PT
Review:  Prince of Persia is receiving quite a mixed reaction, and it's not hard to imagine why. The new 
 PoP takes a somewhat radical turn from the original trilogy. The question is: was this change better 
 or for worse.
  
  I'm not going to answer that question, cause I can't. But instead, I'll review the objective portions 
 of the game, and let others come to that conclusion.
  
  Overall PoP was a nice experience, but one that begged for more. At first glance the game was brilliant. 
 The best parts of the game had been unveiled: absolutely beautiful environments and nice design. 
 In addition, you find out bit by bit that the protagonist and his fairy-like friend are actually 
 likable. In fact, their 'chemistry' and written dialogue (and of course Voice actors) are actually 
 not bad at all. With a story in place, everything seems like it's going to be happy sailing.
  
  But of course eventually, problems started to leer their ugly heads in. First off, the combat 
 is 'weak'. I mean, very very weak. When I at first heard of the one on one combat system, and the 
 fact that the game was somewhat 'easy', my reaction was not bad at first. It didn't seem that bad, 
 and I was not in agreement with the gamespot reviewer who gave it an 8.0 based solely on easiness. 
 However, as I played the game more and more, I started to understand that he was RIGHT.
  
  It's not just that it's easy. The more correct explanation is that it gets repetitive. The game 
 is very superficial; the storyline never really reaches a crescendo because of the 'choose anywhere 
 you want to go' dynamic, and also the 'press T to talk' dynamic. Though the dialogue is well written, 
 it never gets to shine, and you never feel a complete 'development' between the main characters.
 
  
  These problems aside, however, PoP is a FANTASTIC platformer. That is, unsatisfying battles and 
 story aside, the fantastic graphics and fun jump/climb/swing/magic plates dynamics are VERY top 
 notch. In fact, it feels like if they took the combat out altogether, the game would be better 
 off.
  
  The combat is unsatisfying, and the almighty Elika actually DOES get irritating after a while (not 
 her personality, but what she does) . I myself never thought I'd ever be angry at a game that was 
 too 'easy', but overall, it really does ruin the IMMERSION when you feel there is no danger. It 
 was not a very good design choice.
  
  Battles are essentially: wait until you can corner an enemy, and then pull off a single counter, 
 and finish them off in one shot. Honestly, I was appalled at how far they fell in terms of combat 
 from the Warrior Within.
  
  As you can see, PoP is a mixed bag because it's a GREAT weekend-gamer (nonhardcore/casual) title 
 because of the fantastic platforming/graphics and level of difficulty. For more hardcore gamers, 
 however, that desire more than the superficial front (better combat, more intense story, better 
 character development) , this game will not hit the sweet spot. The BIGGEST complaint I have about 
 the game is the middle portion when you have to just collect light seeds; it gets boring rather 
 fast, and frustrating because you feel like all you're doing is running errands for a story/enemy 
 that you don't even really understand. In fact, I recommend playing this game in short bursts at 
 a time; otherwise it gets REAL repetitive.
  
  So why an 8.5 instead of an 8.0. I struggled with this one a bit, but let me just say, the last 
 couple hours of the game are great. Essentially, the game starts out good, drops to pretty boring/bad 
 (in the middle when you collect light seeds akin to grinding) , but then skyrockets to a GREAT ending. 
 I really very much liked the ending, and was very much surprised by how much impact it had. Having 
 stellar music didn't hurt either (the music was quite impressive) 
  
  All in all, PoP is a pretty good game (with pretty nasty flaws) , but an overall excellent casual-gamer 
 game. For hardcore fans like myself, it's probably better as a rental or playing at a friends house 
 (it's not even that long) . However, I just can't give this game a bad score because of its objectively 
 good parts: well written dialogue, an overall good design, great graphics, and fantastic platforming. 
 Hopefully the sequel can fix the combat, storyline, and nuances in character development. Overall: 
 almost bad enough to be an 8.0, but gets saved by a few great choices and its ending. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mhofever
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 28, 2009 9:16 am PT
Review:  This is my edit for my review on Prince Of Persia. So why have I come back and re edited this review 
 and gave it an 8.5? Well because after doing some college assignments, I come to understand that 
 my design inspirations come from Assassins Creed and the Two Thrones, so now I kind of look at 
 this game differently in a way.
  
  It's definitely not for the die-hard hardcore PoP fans but it's a game thats based more on good 
 story development and a more cliche set of characters that would probably fit alright in a movie. 
 One thing I've never doubted about the game is the design. It does look appealing but I will still 
 stick to my case on the gameplay, which isn't really good.
  
  So a matter of fact, this review goes to the design and the great concept art of the game. But 
 only seeing it differently would change your mind. Don't be fooled by gameplay though. Hardcore 
 gamers beware. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vishalshine
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 28, 2008 11:57 pm PT
Review:  The prince of Persia comes back with all more fun and more. The game begins with you searching your 
 donkey. He ends up meeting elika. Then starts the magical journey, The game truly has great graphics 
 , wanting you to play more and more. The combat is superb but easy. The atheletics stuff is also 
 good but easy. You need to purify the corrupted land. face the boss and after collect light seeds. 
 As the game progresses you find some really cool powers, Its so much fun using the powers ,The game 
 will last upto 9 tp 11 hours which is good enough. But you use the same sword all along . The prince 
 is more humorous which suits me, Its not like the new prince is not movable ,he is better than 
 the old one . (Gamespot out if mind ???) . 
  
  Its definately worth playing the game for all those prince of persia lovers and even more. with 
 good story line and stunning visuals it will definately cast a spell on you 
::::::

::::::
UserName: itachi100
Rating: 3.5
Date: Dec 28, 2008 8:47 am PT
Review:  as stated, the physics are the same as assassins creed! and the thing here is, you cant die! and 
 you do very little in this lil comedy game! comedy you ask? well the prince just says some funny 
 stuff! thats about the only good part of the game.
  
  the combat system is pretty lame, you cant get killed! your little princess-priestess friend always 
 saves you and you only fight one thing at a time, plus when you jump off a cliff, she FLIES to 
 you and pulls you back up! if she can fly then why not just carry you to everything! these two 
 nuts have no common sense!
  
  only five bosses in the game, and you have to fight them each many times, and you cant get killed 
 by any of them.
  
  seriously, the only point of this game is to jump, run, and kill evil magic mutants!
  
  at 
 least make yourself killable! and the characters talk modernized O_o 
  
  and the graphics are pretty cheesy, showing their outlines, its odd 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ping5000
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 28, 2008 2:57 am PT
Review:  Ubisoft decided to toss away the memorable, time-warping and ret-conning universe they established 
 last generation with Sands of Time, Warrior Within and Two Thrones. It's another fresh start for 
 the franchise and good lord, what an amazing way to start from square one. 
  
  The game starts with the new prince caught in a sandstorm, while the narrator questions the relevance 
 of a single grain of sand, which may or not be a reference to the previous trilogy. The prince 
 is looking for his donkey, Farah (a blatant reference this one) , which is carrying its weight in 
 gold, but winds up getting terribly lost as he gracefully falls down into a chasm. By a total chance 
 encounter, a renegade princess falls on top of the prince and one thing leads to another  you're 
 going to help her reclaim her lost kingdom by wiping out the corruption plaguing this almost mythical 
 rendition of Persia, with massive structures that defy all architectural logic.
  
  On face value, Prince of Persia has a very shallow plot. Dig deeper and it's still pretty shallow. 
 Instead of a complicated story, much of its narrative power stems from its two characters  the 
 prince and the princess just mentioned above, Elika. The prince is witty, sarcastic and occasionally 
 snarky. Not an ideal lead character. However, like most characters of his nature, he shows his 
 true colors occasionally and his strong ideals on life make him more than just a comedic lead; 
 he's tough, he's gone through a lot, adventured a lot and seen a lot. While there's not much of 
 a reason to label this guy as a prince other than because the credits say so, I just learned to 
 accept it and enjoyed learning what little details about himself he occasionally spilled out. He's 
 a great character and is very enigmatic, which gives the developers a lot of room to open this 
 guy up in future installments.
  
  And then there's your attractive sidekick, Elika. If I were to draw some kind of "Sidekick Likeability" 
 scale for your pleasure, she would rank right up there with Alyx from the Half-Life 2 series. In 
 terms of purely character, she has clear motivations (save her kingdom) and while she has had limited 
 contact with the outside world, she is no pampered and pompous little girl; she's tough and she 
 too has her own set of strong ideals and convictions that often clash with the prince's.
  
  And it's really there when the chemistry between the two start bubbling. Each initially start off 
 with their own goals, they often butt heads, but eventually, they begin to enjoy each other's company. 
 They both change and influence the other in some meaningful way by the end of the game. It's fun 
 to see their relationship grow and it gives the game a lot of heart, just like how Sand of Time's 
 character growth gave it the emotional jolt that carried its story. The emotional pay-off is huge 
 by the games end. It is so powerful and justified. Unforgettable, in one word. Just this aspect 
 alone makes the game worth playing.
  
  The crazy thing is that almost every bit of story and character development is completely optional. 
 Ubisoft calls it the On Demand Dialogue system, which is just a pretty and admittedly succinct 
 way of saying, "You can learn about the characters and the world around you, or not". Every once 
 in awhile, you'll get the chance to engage the two characters in conversation and whether you want 
 to take the time to listen to them or skip them altogether is completely up to you. Opting to make 
 almost all of the game's dialogue optional is convenient, but it also feels a bit backwards. All 
 three previous games integrated dialogue while playing. The prince would narrate or talk with whoever 
 decided to tag along while you were platforming, puzzle-solving or combating your way through the 
 game. Granted, seeing the prince and Elika close-up in conversation with great facial emotions 
 and lip-synching is a quality that couldn't have been possible if they went with what they did 
 in the trilogy, so you take the good with the bad. It's mostly good.
  
  Six paragraphs with barely a mention of how the game actually plays. That seems long enough, so 
 let's talk about it now. Prince of Persia is set in a large gameworld, with four different areas 
 with their own distinct look. The objective is to go to each area and cleanse the corruption that 
 seeps deep within the landscape, so that the land may flourish and get all flowery and pretty. 
 There's an obvious structure that stems from this  get to an area, do some platforming, fight 
 a boss, maybe solve one of the game's handful selection of puzzles and then get Elika to cleanse 
 the area of corruption. With every area that is cleansed, light seeds appear and you must gather 
 at least 540 out of the 1,001 to unlock abilities that you need to finish the game. If you don't 
 go out of your way to gather light seeds every once awhile, you will wind up backtracking to cleansed 
 areas to gather more. This collect-a-thon does inflate the game's play-time, but it's a whole lot 
 of fun to go after these, because they require a lot of platforming.
  
  The platforming, initially, is hard to come to grips with. In one word? Streamlined. To the max. 
 Wall-running is accomplished by just jumping near a wall. All actions require nothing more than 
 a single button press. Thing is, though, the platforming was never all that complicated in the 
 first place. Simplifying the wall-running method from the trilogy's "W + right-click near wall" 
 to a "Jump near wall." in Prince of Persia isn't such a drastic change to the game's control scheme. 
 The result of the simplified controls is a game containing moments of constant platforming that 
 can go on for minutes. Wall-running, jumping off platforms, using arbitrarily placed rings in the 
 world to gain momentum in one grand motion without touching the ground once is absolutely exhilarating. 
 There are some new additions to the prince's repertoire, like his metal gauntlet, which helps him 
 climb down huge structures by simply digging his claws into the structure itself. Elika also acts 
 a double jump, as she will give you that added lift for those out-of-reach areas. It all looks 
 fantastic, which adds immensely to the pure enjoyment factor to it all. Animations are elegant 
 and expertly crafted; the things the prince does, like running on a wall upside-down, look plausible, 
 which will surely encourage dumb kids to try to do dumb stuff in real life. I had so much fun with 
 the platforming that I never used the game's teleport option to move through the gameworld. "A 
 lot of fun" would be an understatement.
  
  The same presentation/intuitiveness philosophy applies to the game's combat. It's a simple and 
 organic system and it is the best combat experience I have had with Ubisoft's line of PoP games. 
 Combat basically consists of four different methods of attack  the prince's sword, Elika's karate 
 magic, the prince's gauntlet and jump attacks. Each is bounded to one key and you chain these four 
 methods into practically any combo you want. Attack twice with Elika, then lift the enemy up with 
 your gauntlet, and end with a punctual strike with the sword. Or do the same thing backwards. Or 
 do something completely different. Whatever. It's flashy and incredibly satisfying. There's also 
 never more than one adversary to fight at any given combat situation, so it never feels mindless. 
 Combat consists of roughly around 5% of the game, which is how it always should've been in the 
 previous PoP games. While it is easy to use the same combo you discovered in the beginning of the 
 game, it's always fun, partly because of what little combat there is and because it looks so damn 
 cool and feels so natural.
  
  You've probably noticed that Elika is really useful. You need her to double-jump, you need her 
 for some of the wild combos in combat. She's with you through 99% of the game. This dependence 
 almost creates the idea that Elika is an all-in-one inventory item than anything else, but she 
 stands out enough as a strong character and the way she interacts with the prince makes it just 
 almost. She latches herself on his back as the prince climbs across thorny vines, the prince and 
 Elika work in tandem in combat, supporting each other throughout. All of this reinforces the idea 
 that Elika is indeed human and that both depend on each other to get through everything. Even the 
 situational dialogue starts to evolve and change as you get farther into the game, really developing 
 their relationship that much more. An initial quip from the prince criticizing Elika turns into 
 a running joke that both laugh at as you get further into the game. It's subtle, but noticeable 
 and very much appreciated.
  
  There's a lot to love in this game, but if there has been one central criticism, it is the notion 
 that Prince of Persia is too easy. Yes, that notion is quite true. Elika will save you any time 
 you screw up, the prince will automatically adjust if you jump at a weird angle, and if you double-jump 
 a bit too late, Elika will give you some extra lift, practically making it a triple-jump. But all 
 of this is fine. My indifference to this subject largely stems from my experiences with the previous 
 trilogy. Sands, Warrior and Thrones were never challenging to begin with, so I'm not sure how this 
 became a relevant issue. Ubisoft's PoP games have always been games that were enjoyable and lauded 
 because of the experience of platforming, experiencing its narrative (sans Warrior Within) and 
 so on, not because there were huge challenges to overcome.
  
  And Prince of Persia is quite the experience. The gameplay is solid, intuitive and extremely fun, 
 but the visuals are on a whole different plane of excellence. Prince of Persia's represents some 
 of the best usage of cel-shading since Grasshopper's killer7 and Nintendo's Wind Waker. It's a 
 visual style that isn't utilized just to look different; it's used because it is the best graphical 
 method of representing the game's world. Exaggerated, implausible buildings and architecture dot 
 all of the four areas and the implementation of the game's cel-shading makes them that much more 
 fantastical and that much more fun to run, jump and scale around in. Bright colors, soft, detailed 
 textures and an impressive draw distance gives the game a visually distinct look, feel and scope 
 that has to be seen in motion. Even corrupted areas are pleasing to the eye, because of Ubisoft's 
 bold artistic direction. Visual defects, like how Elika tends to spaz out once in awhile are tiny, 
 tiny deficiencies in what is one of the finest-looking games this year. 
  
  Prince of Persia's soundscape is almost as excellent. The orchestral soundtrack is superb, but 
 it could've benefited from a few more tracks, because the main theme tends to play too often. The 
 game's voice-acting has stirred a fair amount of controversy, because the two leads don't have 
 an accent. I was never bothered by this, and this has to do with how the game is set in world that 
 is so distinctly not like Persia. Obviously, opinions vary, but that's why they are called opinions. 
 No one will be able to denounce the environmental sounds, though. The rustling wind, the birds 
 in the sky, the crinks and grinding of mechanical gears  they all sound perfect. Strong audio 
 overall.
  
  At most, the game will last 15 hours if you go after every single light seed. If you're not a completionist, 
 a little over 10. There isn't much to actually go back to once you finish. The Jade and Altair 
 skins are really cool and the concept art is kind of interesting, but the only real reason to play 
 through Prince of Persia again is to just experience it all again. It's full of heart and moments 
 that pumped unbridled joy into every crevice of my being. The ending goes down as one of my personal 
 all-time favorites and it leaves the renvisioned franchise wide open for a sequel. Crazy thing 
 is, Ubisoft didn't need to even reboot the franchise. They didn't need to undo everything they 
 established. They did anyway and the result is wonderful. Even better? Zero DRM. That takes balls 
 in this day and age. Prince of Persia is a must-play for anyone who can let go of the lax difficulty 
 and can just experience what Ubisoft has to offer. It won't be hard.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Adversary16
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 27, 2008 9:53 am PT
Review:  Cel-Shading... 
  The first couple of minutes through the game are engrossing, to say the least. Indeed, the art 
 direction is stunning and very colourful while keeping the overall look and feel of ancient Persia. 
 Speaking of which, the new graphical twist may not appeal to some but will please most with the 
 razor sharp graphical and artistic details.
  
  King of platformers?
  Prince of Persia is undoubtedly the indisputable king of platformers, yet lacks some of the 'critically-acclaimed' 
 features of its previous counterparts.
  
  Elika grows on you!
  The Prince has never been the star of this game, let alone the fact that he is not even a prince. 
 However, we are introduced with a beautiful princess, Elika who plays an important role in the 
 game though depriving the gamer of any form of even slightest penalty... The Prince will not die 
 if you make a mistake which, when really thought through, acts as anti-frustration!
  
  Cons?
  The only real con from this Prince of Persia is the inevitable collection of orbs which 
 sometimes detracts from the fun but by no way, makes the game painfully boring...
  
  Story... Plus conclusion...
  The story is as interesting as a good game gets but it is not the 
 best...
  Furthermore, this new Prince of Persia is a very good game and will appeal to a wide range of gamers 
 and since it is a Prince of Persia game, it is bound to be great! 
  
  Big Thanks to Ubisoft!
  
  Best wishes for year 2009, everyone!!!
  Everybody, stay safe!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hitmanr93
Rating: 2
Date: Dec 27, 2008 6:51 am PT
Review:  Ok, let me tell you that I have been a bigggg fan of prince of persia series. I loved warrior within, 
 and still I adore two thrones (which I believe is the best POP ever) , and there was no way I was 
 gonna miss the new prince of persia, Probably the most boring game I've ever played.
  
  The first impression of graphics is bad. they are cartoony and they SUCK. Voice acting is really 
 really WORSE. The actor who palyed Prince's role really needs to get a life. he never suited Prince's 
 attitude. while elika's voice acting is pretty decent. 
  I guess I have the obvious question: How could anyone like this game? how can people tolerate the 
 trashy repetitive gameplay?
  
  The gameplay here is WORTHLESS TRASH. This game is made for kindergarten players. You basically 
 are given an arsenal of canned animations. The combat is clunky and dull. I don't think for a single 
 moment in this entire game did I feel in control of the characters, I was simply clicking my way 
 through mechanical sequences like a next-gen version of Dragon's Lair The Arcade Game.
  After all the old games from the series i was expecting awesome graphics ( In the old POP style) 
 I was hoping for more of a darker side like the other games, and the game of death, which is the 
 reputation of earlier POP series.
  
  I played initially for about 2hrs and was expecting to like open up something different, that NEVER 
 happened. All you do is fight a baddy, then you go n find another baddy and finish him exactly 
 same way as before. 
  
  Honestly for me, and i guess my expectations this game could easily go down as one of the worst 
 games ever! Even the POP DOS version is better than this crap!
  
  Don't listen to hype. now-a-days all ubisoft games are hyped..... but in reality its all flash no 
 substance. Do not waste your time and money on this piece of sh*t. there are many titles available.
 
  
  my overall rating -
  
  graphics - 3/10
  gameplay - 2/10
  story - don't bother
  overall - 2/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shogun26
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 27, 2008 4:07 am PT
Review:  We talk about making Ground Clean and Right, talking about the eternal Versus between good and 
 evil, talking about a continuous amazing game style. This is the Legacy of POP.
  
  the 3d rendering give such a new make up to the game play, environment ultra analyzed, colors light 
 and camera that invite you to appreciate the beauty of this game.
  
  As a gamer, i see that POP08 remind me a Japanese game named "OKAMI" the story is basically the 
 same, From darkness to goodness.
  
  The Fighting was easy, Combo then also not enough to make game Fantasy as the way it looks like. 
 Elika Always here to rescue the prince, and so no game resume :)
  
  And Do not forget to thanks All Ubisoft staff, Special Thanks For Arabic Ones.
  
  At the end, 
 i can see that pop have kept his place as an AMAZING adventure game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: selby3962
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 25, 2008 4:23 pm PT
Review:  I'm still playing Prince of Persia, and so far I'm loving it!
  
  Good:
  The art style is PERFECT, for this genre, it just sort of.. works.
  Controls are fluent, and easy 
 to learn.
  Reaching the end of a particularly long/hard challenge, and being able to admire the lovely animation.
 
  Every fight is like a cinematic, always throwing some new challenge at you.
  
  Bad:
  PC version give you no control over the display options at all, forcing me to play with a low resolution, 
 and in turn, making some nasty sharp pixel edges.
  
  Can get rather tedious if you keep falling to your "death" right near the end of a long run-jump 
 course.
  
  I've said all that needs to be said really, and I've still got to type alot more.
  
  I noticed 
 on the box that it uses "Havok" physics engine, so I expected I could pick things up, but nevermind 
 :P
  
  Also, I thought there would be a town or a city or something, seeing as I read somewhere that it 
 was going to be a free roaming game, which it is, but there just isn't the inscentive to re-visit 
 the places you've beaten, apart from the scenery, and those oh so annoying orbs, there isn't much 
 to do.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jericho9696
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 25, 2008 2:11 pm PT
Review:  The new Prince of Persia might not be the best in the series, I mean, not as good as the Sands 
 of Time but it's great game overall.
  
  First, I would like to talk about the graphics and the result:
  AMAZING graphics, it might look 
 bad on the internet or something but when you play this game on HD resolution, the graphics are 
 great and not too cartoony as I thought, actually looks very realistic.
  
  The gameplay is well done in this game, the wall runs are awesome as always, jumps and all those 
 great stuff that you expect from a Prince of Persia game, but I'm disappointed about how easy is 
 this game, I mean, you can't die not even one time throughout the whole game, so Prince of Persia 
 fans will be a little disappointed about the lack of challenge.
  
  Overall this a great game, that if your a Prince of Persia fan than you must get this even if the 
 game isn't very long, and it lacks the challenge. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danlinenberg10
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 25, 2008 2:38 am PT
Review:  This is the most overrated game in gaming's history.
  I understand it's the prince of persia and saying it sucks is like saying jesus sucks, but common 
 ! you're not blind are ya ?
  
  This game is a disgrace to prince of persia, the difficulty can fit a 3 year old at best. you can't 
 die ! this is the most stupid idea i've ever heard, how can you NOT die in a game? what's the point 
 ? you'll fight someone for ages and not die only because your sweet 16 companion can do some magic 
 ?
  The platforming is so stupid. the same thing all over - jump across the wall, hang on ledge, slide 
 down, climb on vines, hang onto ring, repeat until brain-dead. the idea of collecting light seeds 
 is stupid too. it doesn't reward us with anything other than going to the next level - what is 
 this joke ?? let me get through the next level without having to go back to previous healed locations 
 ! it's not as if it's challenging, it's just a big burden that contributes NOTHING.
  
  The combat is a joke. seriously. it's the lamest combat system i've ever played. 1 enemy at a time, 
 block everything, hit him when he's not hitting you and attemp to perform a "Combo" of 2 moves. 
 jeez.
  
  There are 2 reasons this game got the grade it got -
  1. It's graphics
  2. The fact that it's prince of persia
  
  One of the most boring games I've ever played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stan42
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 24, 2008 1:34 pm PT
Review:  First of all: this is not part of the Sands of Time trilogy. We have in fact an entirely new Prince.
 
  
  While the Prince comes across as a sympathetic Sindbad type, the tag along Princess offers a a 
 rarely found "dynamic duo" aspect to single play and the graphics, while needing a bit of getting 
 used to the cel shading style, are beautiful, they simply don't make up for the gameplay.
  
  The story is unimaginative even for video game standards and just offers the minimum to allow 
 you to advance in the game.
  
  The game offers no challenge whatsoever. It's not possible for the prince to "die" in the game, 
 either through combat or a mishap in acrobatic skills. In fact the entire game is so easy I dare 
 say it's frustrating.
  Both combat and jump'n run are boiled down to pressing the right button at the right time. And 
 if you don't, you can just immediately start off 2-3 seconds before your last wrong step.
  
  Honestly, this is the weakest of the Prince of Persia games ( even counting the incarnations 
 before the "sands" trilogy) . I was especially disappointed at the level design. Sure they look 
 beautiful, but they consist of straight forward paths making you utilize the aforementioned "button 
 pressing" and are simply too exaggerated to be believable.
  
  The voice acting and soundtrack are solid, but nothing out of the ordinary. Although if you linger 
 too long in an area the background music may run out leaving you with a sound of silence.
  
  The main disappointment in this game is that it seems to have been designed for a broad audience 
 and not the average gamer.
  
  On the PC side, I can say the game runs smoothly and while it requires an Xbox gamepad ( or a third 
 party gamepad program) , I actually found the keyboard+mouse controls better.
  
  Final verdict (If anyone ever reads these) : It is indeed a beautiful game. But expect "Assassin's 
 Creed"-like combat and repetitive, unimaginative jump'n run.
  
  If you haven't played the "sands" trilogy, pick those up instead. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: guruv
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 23, 2008 11:27 pm PT
Review:  I guess so. For all that is needed for a game, this one has a no death penalty. Despite the repetitive 
 and possibly boring repertoire, the game is definitely fun! The interaction between the mook and 
 the beauty is low level at best, but certainly better than the earlier. I remember player POP on 
 DOS in 1992. Yep! 1992. I had a RGB color monitor, with a 386 processor and a 20MB HD. Woo! Hoo! 
 And the game highly addictive. There was one boss level which always used to get the better of 
 the best of us. But eventually I managed to prevail. Who could forget the fighting with just the 
 keyboard and only movement was horizontal. And what a long way we have come from that! Better graphics, 
 beautiful landscaping and brutish bosses. Some areas could have been improved for the PC game. 
 But I guess I am just being naggy for small stuff. Overall I enjoyed playing this much better than 
 Sands of time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hotbodyboy_2006
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 23, 2008 10:51 am PT
Review:  Okay so after Prince Of Persia Two Thrones which received an EXCELLENT User Rating of 9.1 on both 
 PC and PS2, Ubisoft have been going down hill. None of their games have made a 9 User Rating after 
 that. Yeah they received those 9 CRITICS Ratings because of the Money they FED to the critics.
 
  
  So what's Ubisoft done after Two Thrones?
  
  Assassin's Creed was a terrible game and moreover was an Insult to the Prince Of Persia franchise. 
 That Prince Of Persia Franchise which has sold 11 million units only to make Ubisoft rich enough 
 to make Crappy Games.
  
  Far Cry 2 was a good attempt and even though it was Better than Assassin's Creed it wasn't still 
 upto the mark.
  
  So it WAS EXPECTED. The Prince Of Persia Franchise which was compared to the leagues of God Of 
 War and considered the Best Fantasy Action Adventure on the PC.............. WAS NEXT.
  
  The NEW POP could have been the Best Game Ever. It seriously had those potentials. But it turned 
 out to be pretty Average, Bad or EVEN CRAP for many Prince Of Persia fans and Hardcore Action Gamers 
 as well.
  
  Even when i first played this game, i had Low Expectations as i knew this would be another Assassin's 
 Creed. Luckily, it proved to be better.
  
  The Good:
  
  1) Amazing Landscapes and Top Notch Graphics
  2) Great Story to start with.
  3) On Demand Dialogs 
 really kept you Involved in the Game.
  4) Elika was an Excellent Character to be with. Never Got in your way. Always helpful.
  5) Platforming 
 even if it took me time getting used to is really Fun and the Green, Red and Blue Plates were also 
 great.
  
  The Bad:
  
  1) Combat was one of the Best Things.......... but only to watch. It was clunky to perform. Quick 
 Time events were horrible.
  2) The Yellow Plate was an absolute spoiler at times. Even if not it was the Least interesting 
 of the others. We don't want a Flying Prince.
  3) The Ending was like a Full Circle, back to square one. Really feel as if you have Wasted Time 
 healing the grounds only for you to release the corruption again.
  4) The Backtracking is fun for a while but gets really boring Later.
  5) Puzzles are Good but 
 they are all the SAME. Repetitive.
  
  Story - 8.5 (Would have given 10 if not for that ending)
  Gameplay - 8.5 (10 for the Platforming, 
 8.5 due to Combat)
  Graphics - 10
  Presentation - 10
  
  Overall 8/10 as a Prince Of Persia Game
  
  Overall 9/10 as a Game
  
  Great Game but should 
 not be compared to the Previous Ones.
  
  How to make the sequel Better:
  
  What Should be retained:
  
  1) Elika
  2) On Demand Dialogs
  3) Platforming.
  4) Red Green 
 and Blue Plates are fine
  5) Combat Scenes
  
  What should be Removed:
  
  1) Quick Time Events
  2) Yellow Plate
  3) Please no White Seeds or Orbs. Try to be a little 
 original like the previous POPs next time.
  4) Back To Square One kind of Ending should be avoided.
  5) Repetition of Bosses like Assassin's 
 Creed should be Avoided.
  
  What can be introduced:
  
  1) Better Combat System. More like a Real Time Combat system like Warrior Within.
  2) Freedom 
 to take on more than one enemy.
  3) Choice of more weapons. Dual Wielding would be welcome.
  4) Prince can also have powers like 
 Elika. 
  
  So Overall the new Prince Of Persia is NOT in the league of its Predecessors. Hence the reason 
 it should NOT be compared.
  
  It was a Valiant attempt by Ubisoft at taking the Prince Of Persia Franchise to a new Direction.
 
  
  They have not Failed. Its just their first attempt on the Next-Gen. Not all games are LUCKY like 
 Assassin's Creed to get away. They can do a lot more in the Sequel. Just add a Hard Mode for god's 
 sake.
  
  The NEW Prince Of Persia is a Game that should be played if you want to Relax. Its Beautiful and 
 easily the Most Beautiful Looking game of 2008. It can also go down like ICO as one of the most 
 Adored games in the Later Years.
  
  For now Ubisoft take your time for the Sequel. A Good Start. Just needs some Major Tweaking. I 
 will wait for Prince Of Persia 2........ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Heiziux
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 23, 2008 6:39 am PT
Review:  I was expecting absolutely amazing things from this game.
  
  In some aspects i got more then i expected and in some i was let down horribly. Because i have 
 played previous PoP games i loved the climbing, wall running, jumping and so on.... What actually 
 made the game non repetitive was the fighting in the game. Fights were fun, different enemies and 
 fun boss fights complimented by great storyline.
  
  PoP (2008) Gives players beautiful environment with low requirements by what made it too repetitive 
 to me was that there were only 5 enemies in the game... No not 5 types of enemies, JUST 5 enemies. 
 You had to fight them over and over and the fights were ridiculously easy. But what was annoying 
 that when you didn't have to fight them you had to be running around collecting seeds. And oh if 
 you made a mistake like i did by not collecting as much as possible after reviving the ground you 
 have to go back over.... look for the seeds, get them and go on collecting them. The game just 
 became too repetitive. If there were more enemies the game would have been amazing just like the 
 previous ones. This one is just a fun collecting type game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eclarkdog
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 22, 2008 10:56 pm PT
Review:  As a fan of the now classic POP trilogy, I was very excited to hear that a new POP series was coming 
 out. I purchased the new POP game as soon as it came out. The game has a lot of merits and is certainly 
 inspired by its predecessors, yet this is not the POP we've come to know and love.
  
  Upon first playing the game, one will notice a truly unique and spectacular visual style. The graphics 
 are top notch and the beautifully rendered world may be the best feature of the new game. That 
 in and of itself, is worth recommending the game to others. For me, it did take a little getting 
 used to the cel-shading (I believe it's called that) style since it was new for me, but I came 
 to accept and admire the visuals quite a bit. I always felt that the older POP games were very 
 nicely produced and rendered. They may or may not have been the most graphic intensive, but the 
 world and visuals in those game sucked you in and immersed you in a classic eastern fantasy world. 
 The new POP game definitely achieves this as well. I'd compare it more closely with Warrior Within 
 as these world were full fantasy, as 1 and 3 had a little more basis in reality - that is, something 
 we could recognize - certainly no harm either way in my book. The new POP truly is a gorgeous game.
 
  
  I've talked quite a lot about presentation, but there are other merits to this game. However, some 
 of the positive features have there downside when considering the full POP universe. I will describe 
 both sides of the coin. POP includes a new major character in Elika, a lovely princess of a fictional 
 state. When I say major I mean it. Elika is very integral to the story, gameplay and plot and accompanies 
 your "Prince" throughout the entire game with maybe a couple very minor exceptions. I would go 
 so far as classifying Elika as a main character on equal footing with the Prince. This is really 
 her story and the world essentially revolves around her. While you don't directly control her, 
 she provides major assistance in the gameplay by channeling powers from one of the games two major 
 gods. I liked Elika. She's a beautiful character, well voice acted, and I believe she will appear 
 in the sequel (s) . She also has a interesting personality and injects a certain amount of wit in 
 the game via the dialogue. I believe any warm-blooded male would take of fancy to her. The one 
 major issue with the character for POP purists is the extreme amount of reliance the Prince has 
 on her with respect to gameplay, acrobatics and combat. The point here is that the Prince does 
 not die - ever. If you are hurt (no health bars here) or miss a jump Elika is there to save you. 
 This takes a lot of challenge out of the game and really makes it quite easy. The older trilogy 
 was extremely challenging in many respects which IMO added to the enjoyment of the game. 
  
  The "Prince", well, is not a prince. This is not the same character as the trilogy despite 
 some resemblance and certainly some of the same combat and acrobatic talents. This chap joins up 
 with Elika by chance in a sandstorm and assists her with the saving her world. He's an alright 
 bloke, but there's not much else to him. I guess basically he's some type of fortune/treasure hunter. 
 I recall some brief mention of his not knowing his family, which left some mystery to his past, 
 but this was not touched on again. The depth of the story, as mentioned, flows almost entirely 
 through Elika. While this is not entirely negative since Elika is a great character, I never really 
 felt connected with the Prince like I did in the old game. Another side note, I did not think the 
 voice acting was appropriate - sounded too modern and almost like some surfer dude. Regardless, 
 the banter between Prince and Elika is enjoyable and witty, although not reaching the desired fruition 
 at the end. On a more positive note, the Prince does just about everything else our old hero did 
 - like the wall running, jumping, swordplay, etc.
  
  Now to the gameplay. If you've played the old POP there's a lot familiar or inspired here. Overall, 
 the world is more symmetrical and a bit open-ended than prior games. You have a map and the option 
 to head to certain areas before others. Certain areas are controlled by one of four bosses and, 
 well, your combat is pretty much limited to these bosses with a couple of minions here and there 
 as well as Elika's possessed father. So this is another major difference in the new game. You fight 
 one enemy at a time. The combat is not bad really, and at times proves somewhat challenging, but 
 overall it's really not that inspired. Also, as noted Elika saves you at any point of imminent 
 death. In a nutshell, combat consists of some slashing, blocking, beckoning some magical attacks 
 from Elika, and plenty of carpal inducing button mashing. It's a long way down from the exceptional 
 combat in Warrior Within, but it does keep things interesting. You will spend the bulk of your 
 time with the acrobatics which are really the highlight of the game, as well as seeking out "light 
 seeds" which are the source of Elika's powers and enable you to activate certain areas of the map. 
 The acrobatic aspect of the game, an important feature of the earlier games, are quite nice if 
 maybe not as challenging or varied as the earlier games. One significant feature missing is the 
 challenging traps of the trilogy. There are a decent few puzzles scattered throughout the game. 
 A nice new feature, which is a bit hard to describe, is a series of four types of "plates" that 
 are activated after reaching certain levels of light seeds. These magical plates play into the 
 overall acrobatics and allow unique maneuvers such as flying or expanded wall running to get to 
 those harder to reach places. 
  
  The story is not bad in the new POP. I wouldn't say there's considerable depth, but then there 
 wasn't a great deal in the old games either - just enough to give you an agenda and end game. Most 
 of the story comes to you via the dialogue between Prince and Elika as well as some scattered cut-scenes. 
 Again, the story mainly lies with Elika and I think she provides enough interest to keep you going.
 
  
  One note on the "light seeds". Collecting the light seeds provides a nice little challenge as well 
 as being integral to advancing the game. I guess one can compare it a bit to finding the sand in 
 older POP or the collecting you do in other action-adventure games. Most light seeds right there 
 in front of you, but usually there are several that take some work to find or access. My one issue 
 is while they are integral to advancing early and mid-game they become irrelevant far to quickly. 
 Of course, there's always the personal challenge of collecting 100% of the seeds, but really I 
 lost interest in them once they became unimportant. I just thought the concept could be more fully 
 realized.
  
  Although I probably seem overly critical, I do recommend this game to most gamers. It's a very 
 accessible game and I believe any gamer or adventure fan that did not play older POP games would 
 appreciate the newness of the experience and beautiful fantasy word. I enjoyed the game too, but 
 as more of a POP purist, this was somewhat of a letdown. This really became apparent in the later 
 stages of the game where I found myself just pushing toward the end. The world itself and it's 
 beauty is worth the recommendation alone, and there's enough here to keep new and old fans alike 
 at least satisfied and get that POP fix. Here are a few things I'd like to see from the developer's 
 in the sequel:
  
  1) Learn from your mistakes like you did with Two Thrones - taking the best from SOT and WW - that 
 is, the storybook nature of SOT and great combat of WW. WW is arguably the best game in the series 
 if they didn't lose the feel and attitude of the first
  2) Bring back the traps!
  3) Up the challenge and vary the enemies
  4) Add more depth to the character of the "Prince". 
 He doesn't need to be a royal necessarily but I'd like to think of him more than a mere vagabond.
 
  Well, I guess I've rambled on enough now, but the POP series is one of my favorites. Enjoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: freakyzz
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 22, 2008 6:01 pm PT
Review:  Just Amazing... When i was playing i stop several times, just to rotate the cam to admire the beautiful 
 world.... The games has it owns magic, the kind of magic that you don't usually see nowdays. It 
 takes you to another world with incredibles scenarios, and touching characters and story. 
  You got a lot of freedom on the game, you can finish the quest in the way you want, the adventures 
 puzzles are really cool, and Elika, the supporting character of the Prince, goes really well on 
 the playing, and after a few minutes you start loving her! 
  The music on the game it is also amazing, sometimes i opened the game just to walk and enjoy the 
 world and music.. hehe
  The fights are really cool, and with Elika, you can make great fight combos, throw the enemy in 
 the air and smash it down! Also, each enemy has it own way to deafiting it.
  
  You got buy and play it, and be happy because it will be a triology, a big epic is to come ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fastpunk
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 21, 2008 5:35 pm PT
Review:  I had pretty low expectations before firing up the new Prince of Persia. It caught my eye because 
 it has an interesting, fresh looking art direction which I simply wanted to experience first hand. 
 I also wanted to get my fill of action adventure games because Tomb: Raider Underworld left me 
 a bit disappointed. The funny part is that Underworld is still the better action adventure game, 
 despite the new PoP's more refined platforming experience. And that's mainly because the new PoP 
 lacks ambition. It settles for the basics, and on top of that, it's criminally short.
  
  First things first: the story. What we have here is a typical tale of light vs dark, good vs evil. 
 The prince, who is enjoying a nice trek through the desert, stumbles upon this mysterious girl. 
 Elika is her name. She's being chased by some guards and the prince helps her out. She needs to 
 get to a nearby temple to stop something from happening. But what? Well, you get to the temple 
 and long story short, the god of darkness, Ahriman, gets free and starts corrupting the world. 
 See, the temple was his prison. But not all hope is lost, there are these places scattered about 
 the gameworld called fertile grounds. If these places can be healed then Ahriman's corruption can 
 be ended. And it so happens that Elika has just the right powers to heal them. 
  
  So the prince is basically the side-kick in this whole adventure, his purpose being that of helping 
 Elika to reach and heal these fertile grounds. The funny thing is, Elika doesn't look like she 
 needs help, she has magic on her side. Actually, she will save the prince from death every time. 
 See, this is the interesting part, the developers have succeeded in making you, the player, feel 
 like a complete tourist. I'm not really an adept of "the player must be the chosen one" design 
 philosophy but I find PoP's approach flawed to say the least.
  
  So you can't die (Elika's always there to save you) and you feel completely unnecessary most of 
 the time, might as well enjoy the sights. The graphics are indeed beautiful, this is easily one 
 of the best looking games of the year. The area design is also pretty solid, with four distinct 
 areas in terms of art direction. But the whole game world is built around the platforming experience 
 so don't expect areas to make sense in any other context. The sound is also up to snuff, with ambient 
 and character related effects particularly impressive. The music is not remarkable but it complements 
 the action very well. Nuff said, graphics and sound are among the best the genre has to offer.
 
  
  And truth be told, the platforming is solid too. Running and jumping from place to place feels 
 very nice and has a certain flow to it. The camera works great, the areas provide enough variety, 
 though it's a shame you can't die, it would have enhanced the experience further. In terms of structure, 
 the game gives you the choice of exploring areas in whatever order you desire but the action is 
 concentrated around the fertile grounds. When you go to one such place, the world is corrupted 
 and dark and after healing it you can either head to another fertile ground or you can collect 
 light seeds that unlock powers. It's mostly an optional task, but one that I've found to be the 
 best part of the game. You see, paths that were previously obscured by the corruption are now available 
 to you, the area basically opens up. And that's important because the light seeds are scattered 
 about, some being placed in less accessible areas, others being hidden. So you need to explore 
 a bit.
  
  You'll also come across combat situations but encounters are designed as such that you will always 
 be facing only one enemy at a time. The combat system is pretty console-ish, with combos and some 
 quick-time events. You can't die here either, but enemies will be healed every time you need Elika 
 to get you out of a jam. So it's basically just a matter of time, no fight is challenging. There's 
 not much to report really, combat is OK but nothing remarkable.
  
  This is a console game after all and it shows, but not in the way you'd expect. Controls for example 
 are surprisingly responsive and well mapped out. I didn't need to remap any keys, I used the default 
 settings and it worked perfectly. The game is also very well optimized, with no frame-rate drops, 
 no hiccups, no bugs or crashes. It's definitely one of the best port jobs I've seen. It's also 
 worth mentioning that the game has no DRM infections, which is surprising, I guess Ubisoft is paying 
 attention after all.
  
  But otherwise, this is a pretty basic game. I'd even say casual. With a bit over 10 hours of game 
 and little incentive for a second playthrough, this qualifies as weekend time filler, nothing more. 
 So I couldn't really recommend a purchase, though I'd say it's worth renting if you're into this 
 type of action adventure games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smilodonbg
Rating: 5.5
Date: Dec 21, 2008 2:36 pm PT
Review:  The history is good . The graphic is not bad it something new but it is not completely, this type 
 of graphic have future. The fight..... the fight is a bad part from the game . The prince fight 
 with four boss five times with all of them ( this is really boring) . And when you start fight 
 you need two battles to learn how to beat him to learn the move and how to block them, and learn 
 a small combo. I can't forgot about a part to reach them oooooo.... ooo is very very easy every child 
 can do it without thing that was a interesting part from the oldest Prince of Persia's games we 
 needed to thing a lot to reach some checkpoint. That my comment for me ubisoft can do a lot then 
 that and I hope They will did it!! ! !! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sandude_c
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 20, 2008 7:35 pm PT
Review:  The game rocks..... play it enjoy.... a different graphics with a new look in it...... prince's flattering 
 words energises your gameplay a lot. various combos a snappy control makes it cool..... there is 
 no bugs a no camera problem as before ..... comparing wih the previous ones....... their story is 
 much more strong but if u think differently this is a game to spend the boring hours.
  
  one thing which is disappointing is the in every stage u have to go with elika and convert the 
 fertile ground ..... only one to one combat..... every stage there is a villan with whom u hav to 
 fight... there is no diversity of characters in the game.... where it lags a lot.... but as a whole 
 a different look for the first of its series is a good approach...... the most impressing thing 
 is the dialogues made by the prince its funny as well there is a trick behind it... i like it... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Druize
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 20, 2008 3:55 pm PT
Review:  Seriously, watching the last video of it, where Prince and Elika move from the temple and there's 
 the darkness god behind. I don't believe they died, though , would be there a sequel to this, these 
 2 fighting once again against something bad? Would love to at least this one ends goodly.
  
  Sorry, but there's nothing more I can write.
  Sorry, but there's nothing more I can write.
 
  Sorry, but there's nothing more I can write.
  Sorry, but there's nothing more I can write.
  Sorry, but there's nothing more I can write.
 
  Sorry, but there's nothing more I can write.
  Sorry, but there's nothing more I can write.
  Sorry, but there's nothing more I can write.
 
  Sorry, but there's nothing more I can write.
  Sorry, but there's nothing more I can write.
  Sorry, but there's nothing more I can write.
 
  Sorry, but there's nothing more I can write.
  Sorry, but there's nothing more I can write.
  Sorry, but there's nothing more I can write. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: captain110
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 20, 2008 12:39 pm PT
Review:  Prince of Persia has always been my favorite game. From the first Mechner's prince to the last 
 T2T and the new prince could easily make it in my heart. At first i was so upset for the artistic 
 change in pop series (the water color work) but when i got playing it i fell in love with the new 
 prince and of course with the new princess.
  One of the greatest parts of the game is your lovely beautiful assistant -Elika. She will help 
 you in fighting and acrobatic moves. She will never let you die - although it makes the game so 
 easy- and she will care for you lovingly.
  The acrobatic moves are better than ever. I really enjoyed climbing, falling, wall running, jumping 
 and so on. the fighting system is unique and exciting although it would be better if you had multiple 
 enemies.
  The Music is fantastic, as a Persian man i really liked the music. Voice acting is also well done. 
 the graphics are great and of course revolutionary.
  I cant say much, just get out, but and try this game. You wont be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonderac
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 20, 2008 10:18 am PT
Review:  The game is beautiful, smooth graphics, and the controls are pretty simple even thou some maneuvers 
 take a bit of work. Not to worry thou Elika is always there to aid a helping hand, no pun intended. 
 Story line wise it's pretty decent, challenging moves and some challenging bosses, well a few. 
 There just isn't any penalty for doing something wrong because you can always rely on Elika to 
 save you, guide you, and even help fight with you. They could have at least made it so you can 
 lose against a boss, or if you just don't make the maneuver start back father, anything to put 
 a challenge into the game. I enjoy playing it, the dialogue with Elika is very good and entertaining, 
 looking around the world really helps to submerse you in. Just eventually it is the same thing, 
 corrupted land after corrupted land. I still recommend it, but just know what you are in for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheProdigy333
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 20, 2008 7:56 am PT
Review:  To begin with, I can say Prince of Persia is one Amazing game. It engulfs you in its world and 
 it doesn't let you until you finish it. This won't be long, though, because, honestly, this game 
 is quite short. BUT, despite that minor flaw the Prince has many other great stuff which make up 
 for it. 
  
  First let's begin with the most important:
  
  Gameplay
  The new Prince has many new acrobatic moves that are quite satisfying, especially if pulled off 
 right, and the new character, Elika, makes a great addition to them because she offers many new 
 ways of interacting with the environment such as jumping over longer distances, performing some 
 cool "air sequences" (that's right, you can fly ;) ) and of course she gives you the opportunity 
 to "try again" which means you can't die in this game. Personally I think that's great because 
 there are some pretty damn hard parts of the game that are difficult to pull off and very frustrating. 
 So a bit of "help" doesn't hurt. The combat sequences are very well done and I think it's great 
 that you don't have to fight a bunch of enemies but only a few "bosses" because this gives you 
 time to run around a little bit more :) . The fighting moves are really impressive and very nice 
 to watch and there is a decent amount of them so everybody can be satisfied. And here is the major 
 flaw that is keeping the game from getting a 10 from me: It gets "a little" boring after a while. 
 But only "a little" because before you even know it the game's over :D . Also the fact that Ubi 
 presented the game as an open-world free choice game turns out to be false, because the game pretty 
 much is LINEAR. You only have to choose 1 out of 4 places to go and follow a certain path towards 
 it. But that doesn't bother me so much.
  
  Graphics 
  The new Prince of Persia uses the same engine as Assassin's Creed which tells a lot about the graphical 
 environment. And with the new and cool addition Ubisoft made, which is the cartoon-ish graphics 
 and cel-shading the game presents outstanding visuals even compared to nowadays where the competition 
 is very strong. I never was a graphics whore so this part is the least important to me!
  
  Story 
  Yes, the game has a story (SURPRISE!) . And even if it seems childish and very predictable 
 it's not. The only thing that bothered me was (**SPOILERS**) the fact that everything you did from 
 the beginning of the game (meaning, imprisoning Ahriman by healing all the fertile grounds) was 
 reversed by releasing him in the end of the game (/**SPOILERS**) . But that's just because there 
 must be a continuation. And, finally a few words about the characters. Elika, the female companion 
 along your side throughout the game is awesome and very beautifully done. This gives one more reason 
 to play the game (just like when someone is playing Tomb Raider because Lara is the protagonist 
 ;) ) . The new "Prince" is TOTALLY different from the previous one. In fact this one is NOT a prince 
 (!) but a thief who lost his donkey in the desert and searching for it finds himself between a 
 battle of gods. This Prince is way more humorous than the last one (was the last one humorous???) 
 and personally I like him better. 
  
  Bottom line, this is a REALLY AWESOME game that everybody should play, especially whoever enjoys 
 jumping around and doing some really cool acrobatic moves.
  
  Gameplay: 9,5
  Graphics: 10
  Story: 9,5
  Final Score: 9,6
  
  PS. Sorry for any grammar errors or wrong 
 usage of words but my English is not the best there is so be forgiving :D
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: andreicucuiet
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 20, 2008 4:33 am PT
Review:  No intro here.... Just going on with the review
  
  Graphics
  The art direction at Ubisoft really helped this game to shine. The art is pure greatness, with lush 
 green and dark depressing enviroments, detailed and great looking character models make this game 
 feel really unique apart from the other grey/dark grey/black/grey black colour scheme out there. It 
 is really a pleasure to the eyes.10/10
  
  
  Gameplay
  The gameplay in Prince of Persia is as everybody expected, streamlined. It is really a delight to 
 do the running and jumping. The sliding works well as the ceiling (WRONG) running. Magic plates are 
 fun to use and provide a unique mode of transportation. The problem is that the platforming has 
 been dumbed down. Altough Ubisoft tried to appeal to the more casual gamer, hardcore fans will be 
 a tad dissapointed about the platforming, but in general it works really well, sometimes having a 
 mecanical feel in the way that the prince wont jump where the camera is facing, but to an object 
 like a pole or a scrach in the wall. Combat is visceral and really flashy and boy do i like it. Stringing 
 combos togheter is really awesome, and the camera does it job really well. Enemies look cool and 
 menacing, but don't really offer a big challange.8/10
  
  
  Sound
  The voice acting is really nice, with some funny lines of dialog here and there. But i really didn't 
 hear any music to pump my adrenaline dose so nothing special here. It's just enough to keep things 
 going.7/10
  
  
  My final score is an 8
  Altough not the ultimate and definitive version of the prince of persia series, elika and the prince 
 will deliver to fans and newbies alike, so it's not a bad ideea to take a look at this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: msd_shkr
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 19, 2008 12:36 pm PT
Review:  the begining was good, playing through the game was real nice, the fighting style everything was 
 just right actually couldnt expect more BUT not the ending to THIS story, im not saying the ending 
 is bad or what i just know this ending does not belong to this story, well im still searching the 
 net to find another possible ending! like warrior within, i got exactly the same feeling when 1st 
 time i watched the ending in warrior within in witch prince kills kaileena then it was just a great 
 work knowing there is another ending that gives you something special, something you have been 
 waiting for all during the game. i hope the sequal comes soon or i may forget whatever that has 
 been happening in this game i mean why cant there be SOMETHING in the ending refering to all that 
 has been happening during the game? still i guess that was a memorable game, thank you guys. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sewer_21
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 19, 2008 11:26 am PT
Review:  Well, i was really anxious when i got the game, and my first impression from its gameplay was a 
 little bad. But after i meet elica, my opinion changed completely. 
  I liked really much the fact that she is always behind me and always there to help me out.
  The 
 game is very easy because of the fact that prince cannot die, and the absence of the live meter 
 that psychologically eases up the game, cause you dont need to stress out from lake of live.
  Battles are fun, but not as fun as the previous game of the series (ex: PoP Warrior Within (LOOOOVE 
 that game) ) , there arent fight with 50 against one opponents, but still, some times one opponents 
 is enough to drive you crazy.
  I liked really much the story line. Ubisoft have done an amazing job with that, and the ending 
 points that there Will be a sequel, and lets prey that that one will be as good as this one!!
 
  
  Peace!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jozeph83
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 19, 2008 2:21 am PT
Review:  One of the most beautiful game ever played. With new graphic design and powerful story in this 
 version. I'm very happy about the Persian language they used for some of their actions and I love 
 the handsome Elika ... A great menu that is animated well.
  One of the most beautiful game ever played. With new graphic design and powerful story in this 
 version. I'm very happy about the Persian language they used for some of their actions and I love 
 the handsome Elika ... A great menu that is animated well.
  One of the most beautiful game ever played. With new graphic design and powerful story in this 
 version. I'm very happy about the Persian language they used for some of their actions and I love 
 the handsome Elika ... A great menu that is animated well.
  One of the most beautiful game ever played. With new graphic design and powerful story in this 
 version. I'm very happy about the Persian language they used for some of their actions and I love 
 the handsome Elika ... A great menu that is animated well.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: VisMajorX
Rating: 4.5
Date: Dec 18, 2008 5:18 pm PT
Review:  As much as I love the previous 3 part Prince of Persia epics this release is a failure in every 
 way except its presentation and it has nothing to do with comparing this title to it predecessors.. 
 As beautiful as it is, conversely the game play is a tragedy. Not once will you ask yourself "How 
 do it get from here to there?" or will you have much of a problem to take the path you know you 
 must take. Pressing the wrong button at the wrong time almost never results in failure providing 
 that you press the right button at the right time as its usually impossible to interrupt most correctly 
 activated animations with an incorrect one. Also disappointing is a lack of combat and the ease 
 it takes to dispatch any enemy that is not a boss. Also the bosses while increasing in difficulty 
 during the games progression never become difficult enough as countering any of their attacks simply 
 requires pressing the correct button (displayed on screen for you) quickly, and attacking requires 
 that you simply know which attack button to press depending on the state of the boss at any time. 
 Memorize a few of the larger combos, wait for an opening and execute the appropriate combo to greatly 
 reduce the life of a boss. If your hit so significantly that you are killed it results in the boss 
 regaining some life and the process starts once again (though you never really die in any way during 
 the game) . 
  
  One might argue that this is no different from any other game but in this case it really is because 
 it never feels like you can truly fail to beat a major enemy and with that there goes the loss 
 of feeling of accomplishment. This unfortunately goes for the entirety of the game. One of the 
 greatest disappointments is that in order to unlock the next area of the amazingly beautiful levels 
 is the requirement that you back track through the already completed areas and collect a certain 
 amount of energy tokens to allow access to the next area (again, there are so many of them that 
 you do not have to break a sweat to meet the required fee for progression) . This ends up coming 
 off as a cheep way to save time on level design and lengthen the game play time by forcing you 
 to do what feels like busy work.
  
  Its a shame that it turned out this way because I feel that with just a little more work they could 
 have had a major hit, game of the year material. Had transversing the land been a complex puzzle 
 like the last three games and combat occurring more often and been free flowing instead of similar 
 to a sword fighting guitar hero where you are expected to push the required button in response 
 to how the enemy is attacking (I often killed soldiers immediately after they appeared with one 
 quick combo, backing them against a wall allowing the animated finishing blow to be automatically 
 executed) , as well as the controls themselves not feeling so unresponsive this would be a keeper 
 for sure. Instead after swearing that I'd never play it a second time (I don't know how many times 
 I've played through each POP game) , I did once more just to see how quickly I could finish it since 
 I knew the ins and outs of it (and exactly how the bosses were to be defeated quickly) and I did 
 so in just under 8 hours of randomly playing for a few days before bed while half asleep. In fact 
 the only time I ever really died much during the acrobatics was when the game failed to realize 
 my input or the camera fooled me in to pushing in the wrong direction. 
  
  Finally, missing from this game are the great puzzles that the other games contained which made 
 those titles such great all around games. When will they learn not to fix that which is not broken? 
 I think I counted about 6 far to easy puzzles that left me feeling as unsatisfied upon their completion 
 as any other aspect of this game.
  
  My only hope is that they learn from their mistakes and take the amazing story, breath taking graphic 
 display and clever dialog to the next release and incorporate all the things that made the other 
 titles such memorable and still to this day very playable experiences. Absolutely the dialog and 
 story are perhaps one of the best presentations ever done in a game like this, on par with some 
 of the Final Fantasy titles best work but that alone can not carry a game.
  
  Again, had they just spent a little more time understanding what made those other 3 games so great 
 and applying those aspects to this one with the new twists in this game that come so close yet 
 so far from being revolutionary or even interesting this would easily be a runner up for game of 
 the year. While playing this title I'm reminded of the new Tomb Raider release and it seems to 
 me like we're in a transitional period in gaming where developers are finding their legs again, 
 they have the graphic and processing power to make these games finally less right angled and add 
 details that 5 years ago were only dreams but they do not know how to apply this advance in to 
 a good gaming experience, leaving the most important game play aspects dry and un-fulfilling. I 
 hope they soon find their ground so these titles do not disappear when fans finally give up on 
 them.
  
  A positive note about this title; great for children or a rent for a bored adult. As someone who 
 grew up on Prince of Persia, I was really looking forward to this title and now I'm looking forward 
 to playing POP Two Thrones for the first time in a couple years. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kurzonmorris
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 18, 2008 12:21 pm PT
Review:  I'll keep it short and snapy, lots of climbing and walking on walls (and ceilings) , so not very 
 realistic but its such an enjoyable game. 
  
  Just the right amount of fighting and wall walking and puzzle play. The graphics feel strange but 
 pretty darn cool, almost cartoony but not, its got its own feel and it looks and feels great. I 
 can imagine it on the console but I can't imagine it being better there. Yes the times you have 
 to press specific buttons to deflect enemy attacks and stuff would be better on the 360 as it uses 
 colors as well as moves, but once you get the hang of your control configuration, this is a great 
 game.
  
  With plenty of areas to go to, its not too repetative. While technicaly once you get past the first 
 4 levels or so you have done virtually all the moves, it doesnt feel too repetitive which is great. 
 Especiallyas when you complete an area you then have a reason to go through that area and collect 
 extra things.
  
  I'd give this a solid 9 out of 10 and well worth purchasing. Yes its DRM free but this is the type 
 of game I'd love to have on my shelf, to come back to in a years time. Well worth the money.
  
  Kurzon
  http://www. game-central. org 
::::::

::::::
UserName: demi_veritaz
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 18, 2008 10:57 am PT
Review:  What holds Prince of Persia together is the amazingly beautiful cel-shaded graphics and Elika, 
 the fair maiden with a good deal of trouble on her plate.
  
  As for the open world exploration? Nah, this game is pretty linear. You get four choices initially, 
 OH MAN. But after that, it's all one way for the most part. A plus is the fact that you will never 
 get lost, ever. Elika is just that amazing. A big negative is that you will never get lost in the 
 world. The scenery is just kind of there to help move you along and boast some eye catching backdrops. 
 
  Overall, this game is far too reminiscent of Shadow of the Colossus. Travel to each land, defeat 
 a menacing entity to alleviate the darkness? In all reality, this is kind of a lazy facelift to 
 that formula. Granted, PoP isn't a bad game. It just seems like too much of a copy cat of a better 
 game in my opinion.
  
  Final verdict? You'd be better off playing Shadow of the Colossus, but this game is worth checking 
 out if you're bored. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChaoSXDemon
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 18, 2008 2:12 am PT
Review:  Intro:
  
  Prince of Persia 2008, a classic game re-made into modern graphics and High-Definition standards, 
 takes a new spin at hard-core gamers. During the game play, the player takes control of a humorous, 
 spoiled, and "Godly" prince, running around in some other people's palace and meets a princess 
 and saves the day. Most of the game takes place between four platforms each having four distinct 
 sections and one boss "lair". All of these are connected through either land or jump-able, climb-able, 
 runnable, grab-able, bounce-able, and slide-able piece of solids. For those who are expecting intense 
 combats, please look somewhere else because there are almost to none. The biggest let down of the 
 game is that the prince will literally NEVER die or lose because the princess will ALWAYS save 
 the day by using her "Light" magic. 
  
  Graphics: 8/10
  
  Interesting blend between cell-shading like shading and realistic simulation. The mix between the 
 two has produce a nice and artistic texture in the game, making the player feel more excited while 
 jumping around the same walls and pillars. Very nice detail on both the prince and the princess 
 and especially their cloths. This section of the game is simply beautiful. But as artistic as it 
 is, sometimes more realistic graphics will be more stunning and "pro" to play with. 
  
  Music: 6/10
  
  Nothing exciting here yet nothing disappoint either. The music changes when 
 enemy appears (literally just one at a time, and very few times in the entire game) , fighting bosses, 
 and running walls using Power Plates.
  
  Game Play: 7.5/10
  
  Very repetitive game play but MUCH better than Assassin's Creed if you know what I'm talking about. 
 The developers tries to mix and match different platforms to jump, climb, slide, bounce, and run 
 on. It is those different mixes that kept the game play alive. On the other hand, combat is almost 
 reduced to none except for bosses and literally maybe two of tree max enemy per area. (There are 
 only four areas in the game each with four sub areas and one boss lair) The game also makes the 
 player collect "Light Things" after healing one sub area and sometimes back-track is required to 
 collect enough to get the next power up. More on combats is that it is extremely simplified and 
 boring because you will never lose. Now something new is developed here among all other Prince 
 of Persia series: Power Plates. These are the power ups you get by collecting "Light Things" and 
 they enables you to fly, and run into new areas. There are totally of four plates and each with 
 different abilities. The most interesting among the two is the Green and Yellow plates. The Green 
 plate allows the prince to run on the surface no matter it is upside down, or vertical or horizontal, 
 and the player has to steer the prince to avoid getting hit. The Yellow plate allows the princess 
 to fly and the prince will steer the way which the princess fly. The concept is the same: avoid 
 getting hit. Now what the developers have done is that they've created an interesting Camera that 
 follows the action of the princes. So when using Green Plates, the camera flips, turns, or rotates 
 around the princes making the game more alive.
  
  Dialog: 9/10
  
  Extremely humorous conversations happen between the prince and the princess through out the game. 
 Here is where all the story line and back ground of the story gets told. The voice actors did a 
 great job in both the tone and mood of the conversation and I loved all the puns and "flirty" bits 
 of the dialogs. 
  
  Controls: 6.5/10
  
  The controls are not as reliable as they should of been. Sometimes pressing a button doesn't mean 
 you've pressed that button! However, it is not bad enough to throw the game into horrible unimaginable 
 mess.
  
  Average: 7.4/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gustavomp
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 17, 2008 7:03 am PT
Review:  This game is simply amazing.
  The graphics are very beautiful, the controls are easy to use, the dialogue is funny and the world 
 is immersive.
  
  But don't expect a hardcore gaming experience. You can't die! Not in the way people are used to 
 die in video games. You will be rescued, but it is like dying, sicne you will be teleported to 
 a previous spot.
  
  You will laugh a lot with the conversations between Elika and the Prince. You will press "T" to 
 hear then speaking many times.
  
  But, as everything else, it has some letdowns.
  
  It's too small.
  It's boring getting that shiny balls.
  The fights are well animated but get 
 boring with the time.
  The Warrior is a pain in the ass.
  
  But it is really worth the wait. I played all the PoP games and i am sure this is the best one. 
 A good plataforming and good fights. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andreiinger
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 17, 2008 6:34 am PT
Review:  it's a good game but i was very disappointed. tha sand of time trilogy was some of the best games 
 i ever played in my life. i was aspecting a better game from ubisoft. i consider the two thrones 
 the best so far. tha graphics are something new and sweet but it's not for this kind of game, not 
 for adventure games. the sound also is not like the alternative rock in sot and the music was part 
 of the magic. the traps are missing totaly. the monster fights are rubbish: there are not enough monsters 
 so you can see the acction, the fights and the bosses are too easy to beat and you don't need any 
 special tactic like in sot to defeat them. the fact that Elika saves you every time takes avay the 
 the revarding feeling that you had when you played sot. There surely going to make another pop game 
 . hope the next 1 will be better 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beckoflight
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 16, 2008 12:55 pm PT
Review:  .... if you remeber the movies & combine them in way that you can create harmony in your head the 
 result will be the new prince of persia .... which can be described like a dream .... the whole 
 game is theraphy ....& if you accept the drastic change that this game offeres compared to the 
 Sands of Time trilogy this one is just as good ! 1st i want to mention that the game can trully 
 be a challenge .... from the official reviews you have might heard that the game is easy .... not 
 quite .. in fact the game is easy to get used to , after 20 minutes you will understand how the 
 whole gameplay system works .... but still with such easy controls .... you will se that thru out 
 leves you will make mistakes & that you just knew that the obstacle was easy but your hand eye 
 coordination just didn't process that .... because the imag & the vibrant colours of the enviroments 
 & the insane ... & you can evan say innvatory level desing takes your breatj/eyes away ! The diversity 
 comes mostly from the visual art but there is olso diversity in gameplay .... because each boss 
 that you meet is special in its own way , because it brings its own number of traps & its own number 
 of minions that you will have to fight from time to time & ough yeah Elika welll i will chose Elika 
 anydhay over the sands of time .... because the gameplay is just to much fun with her involved 
 think of Alyx Vance from HL .... its just good & the fact that she allways saves you ... is only 
 masking the checkpoints .... beter that saying "loading" ! This game is at the same quality as 
 Dead Space in my book & i really can' [t choose the beetween them as for my game of the year ...& 
 Tomb Rader Underworld ... for example its a lot more challengig than PoP & beutifull in its own 
 way but its a little pulled down because of some bugs & kinda slugish fighting! I forgot to mention 
 that the story its great i mean the plot is simple butt the way that characters interact with each 
 other is trully something unique & funny especially when it comes form the Prince ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: solaskaze
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 15, 2008 8:16 pm PT
Review:  If not for a few downright obnoxious game design choices, this would have been a masterpiece.
 
  
  The pros:
  1) great graphics. On a PC, they could have done a lot more, but it is refreshing to see an artistic 
 watercolor look to all textures - any famous painter will tell you looking realistic isn't always 
 the best choice
  2) great music. Finally, the music once again fits the genre/place
  3) a refreshing take on death - you can't die (Elika automatically rescues you and plops you back 
 to the beginning of the fight or tricky jump sequence) . In fact, this technique is cleverly woven 
 into the gameplay in more ways than one (I can't divulge any more without emitting a spoiler) . 
 It makes one wonder why there are save games at all - this game easily could automatically record 
 your progress, and deliver a trivial interface for rewinding a lot if you really wanted to.
  4) great acting (but not script)
  5) Enjoyable gameplay, for the most part. It's easy, but only 
 once you master/learn the trick for each acrobatic move/fight sequence (e. g. I could not use lift/gauntlet 
 at all as an opening move at first - bosses repeatedly would squash me ... until by trial and error 
 I learned the trick, at which point success was 100%) . The automatic Elika rescue does drain a 
 sense of urgency out of the fights, however, as the penalty for death is just a longer fight ... 
 but less frustration as well, and a sense of continuity.
  if anything in the game is too easy, it's the acrobatics: the game is amazingly forgiving in positioning, 
 with the exception of one of the power plate moves.
  
  
  The cons:
  1) Attention carpal tunnel victims, parents with kids, and in fact, any kids out there who don't 
 want to grow up with carpal tunnel: this game's use of quicktime button mashing is: just plain 
 irresponsible. It's boring (the technique is: hit one button repeatedly) , dangerous (it is now 
 known this sort of thing dramatically increases your chance of permanent injury, years later) , 
 and completely out of character with the rest of the game, which is, as gamespot states, almost 
 like a dance. It's also hard for those who can't mash fast. I ruined two mice slamming the attack 
 button (used two hands on the mouse: had to - forums show many have problems with this sequence, 
 which is esp. bad against the Warrior, and the end fight)
  2) While the acting is great, the script is pathetic. If the prince told Elika: "Hey, nice rack. 
 Why don't you take your shirt off and show us some skin?", it would be right in line with his character. 
 Why anyone would want to listen to his pathetic, juvenile banter is beyond me, especially Elika. 
 I suppose those who like toilet humor or completely transparent characters would find it funny. 
 That said, the actual voice actors make the best of it.
  3) The games control/camera of the prince frequently goes out of phase (i. e. the cameral angle 
 has changed but the princes left/right haven't, resulting in the prince going the wrong direction) . 
 What is particularly maddening is certain bosses actual make this happen on purpose. All of it, 
 intentional or not: not fun, just annoying.
  4) There's a lot of controversy over the ending. Players may or may not like the actual ending, 
 but, in any case: the critique here is that it smacks of giving the player a choice. In truth, 
 you have no choice : you're controlling the prince at the very end of the game, but there's only 
 one thing you can actually do that results in forward game progress...
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kay262
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 17, 2008 10:13 pm PT
Review:  This game was designed for consoles and it shows. Everything screams console, from the graphics 
 style to the lack of camera adjustments and controls that require some joypad acrobatics.
  If you have a choice between console and PC version there is no reason to chose the PC one.
  
 The game itself is not that bad, if you like platform games.
  I dont like how the... umm..."prince" talks and acts like he landed there directly from some american 
 teenie sitcom.... doesnt fit the story at all.
  This prince is the most un-inspired character design i seen in a very long time.
  He is simply 
 annoying.
  Graphics style reminds me of Rayman on Dreamcast, not a bad thing, but i expected a bit more i 
 guess.
  Ironically, the actual gameplay is closer to the original Prince of Persia than any of its three 
 predecessors, lots and lots of platforming with very little in between. Some fighting here and 
 there, spectacular fighting but player input is rather minimal.
  I was very excited by the preview movies and concepts i saw, but playing the game proved to be 
 disappointing.
  Yet another game that falls victim to its own hype.
  After all is said and done, i think they should add a new entry in the dictionary for mediocrity..... ubisoft. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hawthornfc_30
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 15, 2008 3:11 am PT
Review:  When i saw the trailer for this game, i thought oh yeah, cell shaded game, should be okay.... well 
 was i wrong, the visuals in this game has blown me away. The gameplay side of this, wall running, 
 roof running, all done in brilliant, style. The story line is fantastic and leaves plenty of room 
 for another great game in the series. Not the most difficult and longest game i have ever played 
 (prob 10-14hours of gameplay first time) and some parts just breeze threw with ease. though if 
 they had made it any harder, i could believe people would get frustrated, with it, very easy and 
 possibly turn off the game. In my opinion i gave this game a 9.5, just on the visuals of the game, 
 the gameplay its self, and i thought the characters were also very good and the music soothing. 
 Ubisoft have yet again, made another game to wow everyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bladerunner666
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 14, 2008 11:45 pm PT
Review:  So close and yet so far away. UBISOFT finally captured the POP mystique but in their desperate 
 attempt to capture a mainstream audience they alienated veteran gamers with some very weak gameplay 
 mechanics.
  
  One thing you can count on is the quality of the game is top notch.
  
  They nailed every facet of the game except for the fighting mechanics. It is very boring and very 
 repetitive.
  
  They took a huge step backwards from POP3. They should have modeled the combat after Assassin's 
 creed.
  
  Instead they make the 1 on 1 encounters very tedious and dowright dull.
  
  The platforming is nicely balanced and not tedious at all. I do appreciate the instant reload concept 
 since that does keep the game from bogging down with do overs from a death.
  
  But combat should have been more fluid and continuous. Instead they are sprinkled around the levels 
 so sparsely that you almost forget that combat does exists. 
  
  I felt like I was watching a movie more than playing an interactive game. It's really a shame since 
 a lot of detail went into this game.
  
  The voice talent from the main actors are perfect and the dialogue is some of the best I have heard 
 in years. Very witty and not corny at all. A rare feat indeed.
  
  Worth the purchase if you are bored and have some money to spend. 
  
  I hope they redo the 
 fighting mechanics for the next one.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vect0r
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 14, 2008 10:15 pm PT
Review:  I had my eyes on this game since I heard about it previously this year. I've played the other PoP 
 games and enjoyed the acrobatic fighting and atmosphere they had. I start playing this new PoP 
 and quickly became confused about they overall gameplay. 
  
  The way you move around is well done and looks good, but there's no risk. Knowing your invincible, 
 it takes away from the overall atmosphere a little bit, but I'm fine with it. However I am NOT 
 fine with the combat. Where are the enemies? You fight one enemy at a time and when you are actually 
 fighting, it quickly becomes absolutely boring. Since combat was the main draw for me, I can't 
 really say that I enjoyed the game. the fact that you're limited to strafing and rolling while 
 fighting makes it feel more like a fencing game rather than a PoP game. Fighting also feels very 
 repetitive and way too easy.
  
  The graphics are pretty good and although I would have preferred a non comic style prince, It didn't 
 really bother me. But it did feed to my opinion that instead of sticking to the roots of PoP, they 
 wanted to make a game that would appeal to a larger audience. Mainly a younger audience.
  
  Christmas is a couple weeks away and the Devs came out with a good seller that I'm sure many people 
 will enjoy. But for hardcore devil may cry players like me who enjoy acrobatic kill'n..... this 
 game will not be fun for you. If the combat was a little more difficult I would have given this 
 game a 8.0. I feel they ran away with the series with this one and made the game too "PG" for me. 
 Still a quality game. Just boring for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gedthegeek
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 19, 2008 7:37 pm PT
Review:  I disagree with the review that Prince of Persia is the easiest of the series. Sands of Time is 
 the easiest of them all. Those who say that the game is easy are those who spend most of the time 
 fighting the bosses and don't bother collecting all the light seeds.
  
  In fighting enemies in the latest edition, you have to think of strategies to beat them, unlike 
 in Sands of Time when you only need to vault and slash at opponents, regardless of their great 
 number. It takes skill to move opponents toward the edge of a clliff or a fighting platform and 
 the AI does a great job of adjusting to the fighting prowess of the Prince.
  
  The camera in the game needs a little tweaking, though, for there are times that it is stuck in 
 one position, especially when the prince is facing a wall, and this makes it more challenging to 
 vault to little caves with light seeds behind the Prince. 
  
  Elika looks a lot better in her Sands of Time garb. Elika in red provides great contrast to the 
 costume of the Prince. I do not recommend the Sands of Time for the Prince, however. His body looks 
 like a mini Incredible Hulk without a shirt on.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mbm7501
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 14, 2008 6:19 pm PT
Review:  In my opinion way better then Assassins Creed. Although sometimes i miss the crazy fights but all 
 is made up twice fold. it has beautiful artwork and i love the new art design, its kinda like a 
 cross between cartoons and realism, but it has great game play, the character interactions is amazing 
 between the prince and the girl and at times funny. works great on a two year old pc with settings 
 high. i like the interactions. the only reason i give it a 9.5 is b. c. of not enough fights and 
 some fights are kinda hard (warrior) . but these small details are overlooked and the beautiful 
 and engaging fights i keep on coming back for in this game. definitely worth your time and money. 
 I really like everything about it. Also i find my self getting attached with the girl she is beautiful 
 and funny. (no i'm not a loser XD) but if you play this game you will know what i am talking about 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ax_vampire
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 14, 2008 4:31 pm PT
Review:  Well, it's about two gods. In every fantasy game you will play, you will encounter two sides, the 
 good and the bad, ying - yang. So it's ordinary, nothing special. It's 30% game and 70% story. 
 You fight with a girl, Erika, the light God blessed her with unimagined things, and you can't die 
 because if you fall over a cliff or something, Erica will save you. Principal thing in this game 
 is about life, everything have died because of dark god you must revive with the help of Erika. 
 In the final you will fight the dark god. I've finished the game and i think that will be a part 
 2 of this series. You must play it, it's amazing
  The Graphics are amazing, i think that's Nvidia Physx work ; it's about a dark fluid on the walls 
 and if reach at you, you will drawn (if you will play, you will know what i'm saying here) . Also 
 you can change the characters in the main menu (the prince and the girl) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: petrilacatus
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 14, 2008 1:20 pm PT
Review:  Well, just finished playing this one and i found it amazing. Although it's not so nice that you 
 can never die, it is a great idea why you never die... The system would have worked better if there 
 were some penalties, and if enemy life would have fully recovered, making the game a little harder.
 
  Also the story is nice and the gameplay immersive too bad the ending is quite strange.
  
  
  
  
  
  Well, just finished playing this one and i found it amazing. Although it's not 
 so nice that you can never die, it is a great idea why you never die... The system would have worked 
 better if there were some penalties, and if enemy life would have fully recovered, making the game 
 a little harder.
  Also the story is nice and the gameplay immersive too bad the ending is quite strange.
  Well, 
 just finished playing this one and i found it amazing. Although it's not so nice that you can never 
 die, it is a great idea why you never die... The system would have worked better if there were some 
 penalties, and if enemy life would have fully recovered, making the game a little harder.
  Also the story is nice and the gameplay immersive too bad the ending is quite strange. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: subzero2010
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 14, 2008 6:43 am PT
Review:  The Best Fantasy Action Adventure Game In 2008, Ubisoft Working For The Trilogy Prince Of Persia 
 - The First Part A Have Very Good 
  And The Story And Graphics Sample And Easy To Change The Dark In The Game, Like All Ubisoft Game 
 And Like The Greatest Prince Of Persia Story I love That Game And I Vote (10) For it ,
  
  For Every One Want To Buy It :-
  
  The Game Supported OS: Windows (R) XP/Windows Vista (R)
 
  
  Processor: Dual core processor 2.6 GHz Intel (R) Pentium (R) D or AMD Athlon 64 X2 3800+ (Intel 
 Core (R) 2 Duo 2.2 GHz or AMD Athlon 64 X2 4400+ or better recommended)
  
  RAM: 1 GB Windows XP/2 GB Windows Vista
  
  Video Card: 256 MB DirectX (R) 10.0compliant video 
 card or DirectX 9.0compliant card with Shader Model 3.0 or higher (see supported list) *
  
  Sound Card: DirectX 9.0 or 10.0compliant sound card (5.1 sound card recommended)
  
  DirectX 
 Version: DirectX 9.0 or 10.0 libraries (included on disc)
  
  DVD-ROM: DVD-ROM dual-layer drive
  
  Hard Drive Space: 8 GB
  
  Thnx To Read My Review And 
 that's my first Review In Gamespot And In my live :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vedomedo
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 13, 2008 2:48 pm PT
Review:  Well I just finished the game, and I thought I'd write a review.
  SO, let's get started.
  
  Prince of Persia is not like it's predecessors, it's brighter, more cheery (at least more than 
 warrior within) and I personally thought it was really fun to play. I would just lay back in my 
 chair and tilt it back, fire up PoP and play an hour or so. With this said the game is not for 
 everyone, a lot of people will hate it for the cell shaded graphics and the level of difficulty, 
 or should i say easy?
  
  Anyway, there are some things in the game that annoyed the HELL out of me, like when you jump on 
 a pillar, and the prince decides "you know what, I'm not gonna turn the right way so that the player 
 jumps to his death" and kill me he did, A LOT of times. And some other things we're "bad" or should 
 i say not as good as the rest, like the four "powers" that Elika has, the yellow thingy (flying) 
 is the biggest **** ever in a video game, i mean COMMON why would you ruin the fun with a baby 
 mini game, it's like a cut scene but SUDDENLY a wall jumps up on you and you die and you have to 
 start over... HATE YOU YELLOW PLATE THINGY !
  
  Other than that the game was really good, even though 30% through the game a I already knew how 
 it was gonna end (more or less that is) but I still think it was a good story nonetheless.
  
  The voice acting was good, but the prince had some lines that felt like they were taken straight 
 out of deadly weapon or die hard and it's hard to imagine those movies set in Persia ... while 
 fighting the corruption if you get my drift.
  
  Technically it seems that they ported it pretty good. I can't really use my PC as a milestone because 
 i have a GTX280, 4gb ram and 3,16ghz (dual core) and that's well above the reqs and i was running 
 it on 1920x1200 (everything on max, except AA that ruined everything) . Only stupid thing was that 
 you had to use the launcher to edit settings, which pissed me off.
  
  To make a conclusion, Prince of Persia is refreshing with it's new graphics and easier gameplay 
 (while easy, it has some fights that make u scream at the screen and almost kill your neighbor) 
 and it draws you in with it's extremely atmospheric settings as well as healing corrupted lands 
 is pure awesomeness (at least the first few times) . The new features like magic plates are cool 
 except for the damn yellow bastard.
  
  So 9/10 for PoP, good game COULD have been better if it was a little less repetative and had more 
 substance other than "extras" that include skins and concept art... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vortex_gw
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 13, 2008 9:37 am PT
Review:  The new Prince of Persia game is finally out and if you expected the old Prince of Persia style 
 game you are in for a surprise. This does not mean that the new game is bad, it's actually pretty 
 good.
  
  There are no sands of time, the character are different, basically everything has changed (except 
 the wall running ^_^) . The new story is ok but what steals the show is the support character Elika. 
 She is a magical guardian of an ancient tree of life that keeps an evil god imprisoned. As usual 
 the evil is about to escape its prison and it's up to Elika and the prince to save the day.
  The animations between the prince and Elika while doing wall runs, swing on polls, climb vines, 
 etc. are AWESOME! It's so realistic and enjoyable watching them perform all kinds of acrobatic 
 moves. The game has outstanding presentation.
  
  The combat is always 1 on 1, actually 2v1, but it's cool and cinematic. It's like watching an awesome 
 anime fighting scene. The trick is to chain sword attacks and Elika attacks. The comboes look awesome 
 and they deal a lot of damage. The platforming is great and they've added some new stuff to the 
 old PoP platforming formula like walking on the ceiling, sliding down walls with the gauntlet and 
 moves which you can only perform when you use one of 4 different coloured plates. After 4 or 5 
 hours you will use different plates in a single running sequence and I must say that the end-game 
 running sequences are just awesome. 
  
  The game is all about healing areas from the influence of the evil god. After you heal an area 
 you have to collect light seeds and do some backtrack. When you collect certain amount of seeds 
 you can unlock a new plate skill. There are four plate skills in the game and to unlock the last 
 you need 540 light seeds. There are total of 1000 seeds in the game for those who want to "collect 
 them all" but make no mistake, collecting light seeds is nothing like the BORING flag collecting 
 in Assassin's Creed. You need to think and plan you jumps to reach every seed. By doing this you 
 will extend the game to 20 hours (12 hours to complete the story) .
  
  The game has the old Prince of Persia: Sands of Time storybook style and the visuals are excellent 
 (like a watercolour painting) . Overall the game is great and the story makes has a unexpected ( 
 at least for me) twist in the end. It's a great start to a new chapter in the "Prince of Persia 
 book".
  
  The things that I didn't like are:
  - the game is too easy.
  - the prince does most of the platforming all by himself. You just need to press a certain button 
 every 3-5 sec, it feels like Assassin's Creed lazy-ass controls. I really miss the old prince of 
 persia platforming style and the rewing time.
  - the game is mostly platformer. The old PoP games had perfect mix of platforming, combat and puzzles.
 
  
  Great new start for the franchise and now I have a 4th PoP game to play every 3-5 months. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lover_22
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 12, 2008 11:42 pm PT
Review:  Game just begin with a great menu that is animated well and it touches the hearts the music rocks. 
 its typical desi type music in the game. the moves and stunts all are awesome story is really good. 
 The games gives a comic look but grpahics are too highly mantained. No problem at all on a evga 
 9800 gt dual slot 512MB Graphic card , 4GB kingston ram and a 3.0 E8400 core 2 duo system to play 
 the game with high settings. I hope everybody enjoyed it very well and also many many congrats 
 and best wishes for Xmas. I played it over 5 stages every stage has its own boss and that is defeated 
 by a prince and also princess. Yes a princess in a prince game. She's beautiful and her moves and 
 magic also very good. Better to be help prince , the prince help her to get her monsters down. 
 She just help the prince to fulfil her monster killing and drowning them in the earth. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
