-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Prince of Qin
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/rpg/princeofqin/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Aug 30, 2002
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.7
Critic Score: 6.5, 20 Review (s)
User Score: 7.6, 145 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Strategy First
Developer: Object
Genre: Computer Role-Playing
Date:     Aug 19, 2002
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Though Prince of Qin is an epic adventure in the vein of Baldur's Gate, an awkward English translation 
 and some lackluster production values prevent it from having the same appeal. 

 Ancient China has been the setting for any number of exciting martial arts-themed Hong Kong action 
 movies, but still, it's an era largely unknown to Western audiences. Though the Roman Empire is 
 sometimes considered to be the first great civilization, China had been there and done that hundreds 
 of years earlier -- the Qin (pronounced "chin") Dynasty, dating back to around 220 BC, had all the 
 token features: lots of political intrigue, social conflict, and outright war. It is in this setting 
 that Prince of Qin, a role-playing game from Beijing-based Object Software, takes place. Prince 
 of Qin is inspired in equal parts by popular role-playing games like Baldur's Gate and Diablo II, 
 making for an experience that should be familiar for role-playing gamers, despite the unfamiliar 
 setting. And though Prince of Qin is an epic adventure in the same vein as the Baldur's Gate games, 
 a decidedly awkward English translation, some lackluster production values, and a poorly implemented 
 multiplayer mode all prevent it from having the same appeal as the games that influenced it.   
         Ancient China makes a fine setting for a role-playing game.    

  Throughout the single-player portion of Prince of Qin, you play as Fu Su, a prince living in exile. 
 The main character of the game is actually a real historical figure, regarded as a hero of the 
 era, but one whose life was tragically cut short by a false order demanding that the prince take 
 his own life. The game offers up a "what if" scenario in which the prince suspects foul play when 
 the order arrives, so rather than kill himself, he flees to investigate. In so doing, he disguises 
 himself as a simple commoner, and then goes off on a lengthy adventure where he'll meet new allies 
 and plenty of enemies and discover the source of corruption within the royal family. Though the 
 characters and the places in Prince of Qin are based on historical information, for the purposes 
 of turning them into role-playing game material, plenty of liberties were taken. The game doesn't 
 just play it straight, but heavily incorporates magic and mysticism into the gameworld, making 
 for a setting that's actually quite distinctive.   

  Those who've played Baldur's Gate and Diablo II will be quick to note that the gameplay of Prince 
 of Qin draws directly from both these games. Though the game can be played completely in real time, 
 you can pause the action at any point by hitting the space bar, a feature that will frequently 
 save your characters' lives in the middle of a battle. The combat itself is reminiscent of Diablo 
 II, in which characters gradually acquire and improve in a number of different special abilities 
 and can equip a wide variety of different types of weapons and armor, all with various statistics 
 and special attributes. The combat isn't nearly as polished as that of Diablo II, however. A generally 
 haphazard pacing and some balance issues make battles in Prince of Qin not nearly so addicting 
 as in Blizzard's hit game. Many of the skills you'll be able to learn as you gain levels just aren't 
 useful in practice, and despite the party-based nature of the combat, it's difficult to get your 
 characters to act intelligently in battle short of micromanaging each of them. And a somewhat counterintuitive 
 interface interferes with the micromanagement. You can't click on one of your characters to select 
 him, but must instead click on his portrait on the right side of the screen. Seemingly simple actions 
 like exchanging equipment between characters are fairly cumbersome to perform.   

  Prince of Qin does incorporate an interesting elemental magic system, based on the ancient Chinese 
 theory (which predates Aristotle's similar theory by centuries) that the physical world is made 
 up of five elements: earth, fire, metal, water, and wood. A five-way rock-paper-scissors-style 
 relationship exists between the elements in the game, making some powerful against others, but 
 also making some able to bolster others. Certain combinations of elemental equipment produce results 
 greater than the sum of the parts. The game also has a rudimentary trade skill system, whereby 
 you can make new items by combining raw materials if you're proficient enough and know the proper 
 recipe. Beyond all that, Prince of Qin is obviously similar to Baldur's Gate, insofar as this game 
 is likewise split up into a large number of relatively small areas enshrouded in a fog of war that 
 clears away as you move through it. Many of the areas are towns, and you'll often meet characters 
 willing to send you on fetch quests or other simple tasks in exchange for experience points and 
 some other rewards. Leveling up in Prince of Qin is treated much like in Diablo II, where you can 
 spend attribute points to improve your characters' core stats, and skill points to gain or augment 
 special abilities.   

  Hard-core role-playing gamers will appreciate that Prince of Qin doesn't skimp on storytelling 
 or character development for the sake of action. There's a surprising amount of dialogue with nonplayer 
 characters all throughout the game. Unfortunately, most of the dialogue is poorly translated, often 
 to the point that it's difficult to understand. The occasional use of full speech is even more 
 awkward since, in spite of the voice actors' fluency in English, their performances leave much 
 to be desired, and the spoken dialogue itself is just as inane as the written stuff. For what it's 
 worth, forgiving or open-minded gamers might appreciate some aspects of the translation of Prince 
 of Qin, a game that reads like a script for a chop sockey low-budget kung fu flick.   

  Prince of Qin's single-player mode is fairly open-ended and is actually quite challenging, in part 
 because you may have a difficult time keeping track of all the different characters and your various 
 quests, but also because the combat can be very tough. It's a long campaign, and there's also a 
 multiplayer mode to keep you busy afterward. Supposedly. The shipped version of the multiplayer 
 game can only be played over a network or direct TCP/IP connection, making it a poor choice for 
 those expecting an alternative to Diablo II. The multiplayer mode is different and much more action-packed 
 than the single-player mode, and it lets you create your own character from a number of different 
 classes, but it will also be effectively unplayable online for most gamers. At least you don't 
 need multiple copies of the game to get it running over a network.           The ASPCA probably 
 wouldn't approve of Prince of Qin.    

  The game looks and sounds decent, though some aspects of the presentation are rather crude. You'll 
 see some impressive scenery wandering through ancient China, and many of the characters look pretty 
 good, though a lot of the creatures you'll encounter look silly, and the game generally appears 
 grainy and washed out. Sound effects are minimal and the voice acting is poor, but surprisingly, 
 Prince of Qin features a few really impressive music tracks that do a perfect job of setting the 
 mood for the game. Too bad that the annoying combat theme often cuts them off.   

  All told, Prince of Qin is a decent role-playing game on its own merits, and it's one that's easy 
 to apologize for considering you can tell some real effort went into it, and it was made by a relatively 
 small team. Oftentimes you'll have to work to understand what's going on in the game, and you'll 
 have to try hard to stay alive in battle. But if you stick with it, you'll see some interesting 
 sights and maybe even gain a little insight into ancient Chinese culture and folklore. So if you're 
 looking for another role-playing game to while away the time, this one's not a bad choice.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (4 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: KingLim
Rating: 6.1
Date: Mar 28, 2007 4:41 pm PT
Review:  This is an RPG with a heavy Chinese influence that tried to play like Diablo or Baldur's Gate. 
 Some people may not agree with this comparison but trust me, I'm a Chinese and I've played real 
 Chinese RPG games made in Taiwan in Chinese words. Standard Chinese RPG games play like the Final 
 Fantasy series and FF tactics in fact, with a linear story path and turn-based battle system, and 
 it hasn't changed much those few years. So in my point of view, Prince of Qin tried to challenge 
 the norm by being a Diablo clone to attract fellow Chinese Diablo fans to play it, which again 
 in my opinion, did not work quite well.
  
  The game plays very much like an isometric Dungeon Siege actually, where you can recruit up to 
 3 characters to fight alongside your main dude in a hack'n'slash style, while the story works like 
 Baldur's Gate, where you get to have a main quest along with several side quests to interest you 
 along the way in an open-ended manner. There are some unique elements like crafting system using 
 raw materials you find around the map, but it gets tedious halfway through the game.
  
  As a Chinese, I am quite embarrassed by the translation in the game and I actually cringe at most 
 parts of the voiceovers. Yes, it's true to the ancient Chinese way of expressions but it sounds 
 downright disrespectful to translate them word by word into international English. It sounds very 
 uninspiring and actually brings down the production value of the game itself.
  
  Lastly, while the game is not very difficult in terms of the fights and action, the last boss tends 
 to be too overpowering and you need quite some time to adjust to this unexpected challenge.
  
  KingLim 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dmso12
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 23, 2006 12:57 pm PT
Review:  Some folks call it a Chinese Baldur's Gate - the influence is definitely there, but Prince of Qin 
 stands on its own as a budget RPG that I picked up on a whim (along with Seal of Evil, which I 
 played first and really enjoyed) .
  
  Innovations include crafting and non-traditional character classes, and non-Tolkeinesque monsters. 
 But what really sets it apart is its historical Chinese setting. With so many Diablo and Baldur's 
 Gate clones out there, and so many wth lackluster production values (ever play Gorasul?) it's nice 
 to see a game developer really taking a different approach to the tried and true moneymaking formula.
 
  
  I notice that Gamespot has chosen to post examples of the shortcomings in the translations (like 
 the one about 'beating the enemies off') - there are some funny translations, sure, but the gameplay 
 is fun! There are lots of places to explore, with lots of detail. If you like RPGs and are willing 
 to invest some time to get used to the engine, you will find yourself rewarded. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: merchitO
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 14, 2006 4:28 am PT
Review:  This is NOT a diablo clone. This is NOT a Baldur's clone either. POQ is a really original and entertaining 
 game. Moreover, it's one of the extremely rare action-RPGs that really deserves to be called a 
 Role-Playing-Game.
  
  So, why the bad ratings? 
  The game is very polished. Graphics (2D) are excellent. The story, grand! Atmosphere? Yep! Crafting 
 is excellent, a big, good surprise for me who usually don't like crafting in RPGs. Skills to develop, 
 are quite good. Game engine? Very polished, surprisingly comfortable. Interface: Excellent, logical 
 and delicately designed. Music? I love it!
  
  So, what has put people off this game: I think it's the fact that it's different, and requires 
 the occidental to learn a bit of chinese culture, history and lore. Oh, no need to open a book, 
 everything is in the game. But, yes, you have to open your mind to another to culture if you wish 
 to understand and enjoy Prince of Qin. An effort too big for quite many a gamer, probably.
  
  The translation of the game has been made by chinese people, and it shows a lot. People have 
 been complaining about that... Though it's in fact a strong point in favor of this game! Each time 
 I save my game and am asked if I wish to "overlap" my previous save, I am delighted. The game plays 
 chinese, thinks chinese, and the fact the translation sounds chinese is a must!
  
  You like RPGs and the atmosphere of historical kung-fu movies? You will love Prince of Qin. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aries1
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 4, 2004 4:55 am PT
Review:  This game is very hard/difficult even on the normal mode, hence the low score for gameplay, the 
 graphics are OK, the sound are OK, the story is wonderfull and intriguing, hence the high score 
 here.
  
  This could have been a great game if it weren't so difficult. And the controls not so miserable 
 : (.
  
  If you want an exciting game that will beat you most of the time --- i. e. wolves that drench hitpoints 
 etc. --- buy this game. If you do not want (like me) to waste your time, not understanding the 
 game's combat system, stay away.
  
  It all depends, like everything else, your personal preference.
  
  aries1
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
