-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Prince of Persia: Warrior Within
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/princeofpersiaii/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 More puzzles, more wall-running, more.
 Longer campaign.
 Improved combat.
 Gorgeous looking environments.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Lost a lot of the charm of last year's game.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec  2, 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.6
Critic Score: 8.1, 28 Review (s)
User Score: 9.0, 4,750 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ubisoft
Developer: Ubisoft Montreal
Genre: Fantasy Action Adventure
Date:     Nov 30, 2004 &raquo;  
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
While Warrior Within's combat and satisfyingly long campaign improve on last year's game, the now 
 darker tone falls somewhat flat compared to the storybook atmosphere in The Sands of Time. 

 
  When Prince of Persia: The Sands of Time was released last year, it was a very pleasant surprise. 
 The game was an action adventure offering in the truest sense of the term, featuring beautifully 
 detailed levels, environmental puzzles, and, of course, the acrobatic Prince of Persia himself. 
 It was an amazingly faithful modernization of a beloved classic. With the newest iteration in the 
 series, Warrior Within, developer Ubisoft Montreal appears to have addressed the biggest complaints 
 about its forebear, which specifically involved its repetitive combat and short length. Yet while 
 Warrior Within's new combat and satisfyingly long campaign improve on last year's game, the now 
 darker tone falls somewhat flat compared to the storybook atmosphere in The Sands of Time. In addition, 
 technical issues on the Xbox and PS2 platforms also mar the experience a bit. However, make no 
 mistake: Warrior Within is a still a very worthy sequel.  

          Warrior Within is every bit as good-looking as its predecessor.     

  Warrior Within 
 continues the prince's story from last year's game, so, because the prince has unleashed the mystical 
 Sands of Time, he finds himself pursued relentlessly by a menacing time monster called the Dahaka. 
 The Dahaka is a beast that devours everything in its path like a walking black hole, so to escape 
 it for good, the prince decides he must travel to the past to kill the Empress of Time to prevent 
 the creation of the sands entirely. Sound like a conundrum? Well, if you can accept  Back to the 
 Future , you shouldn't have any trouble suspending your disbelief for the plot in Warrior Within... although 
 the game is probably meant to be taken more seriously than the Michael J. Fox film. The prince's 
 journey takes him to a ruined fortress on the Island of Time, where you'll find yourself fighting 
 inside the castle, in mysterious caves, and in the outdoor gardens, where some of the game's most 
 attractive level architecture can be found.  

  Warrior Within borrows a page from the Legend of Zelda: A Link to the Past in that you'll be exploring 
 in the same areas in two different time periods. Special rooms scattered throughout the fortress 
 let you to shift back and forth between the past and the present, and areas of the castle will 
 change accordingly depending on the time period. So, for example, the clockwork tower that had 
 delicate machinery and giant working gears in the past looks run-down and broken in the present 
 day, with tree branches poking through walls and ruined pieces of machinery scattered on the floor. 
 Of course, the path you take to navigate each room also changes depending on the time period you're 
 in.  

  The new time travel mechanic serves to lengthen the game, but it also adds an element of backtracking 
 that wasn't present in The Sands of Time. This isn't to say that Warrior Within involves as much 
 open-ended wandering as, for example, a Metroid game. For the most part, the game still plays in 
 a very linear way, but in some of the later levels (which feel like they were a bit rushed) , it 
 isn't always made clear which direction you should be going in. An in-game map always shows your 
 current location, as well as the time period you should be in, but the lack of detail in the map 
 makes it impossible for you to know exactly  how  you need to get to your next stop. This can sometimes 
 lead to a bit of frustration as you fumble about, but, for the most part, it isn't a problem... so 
 long as you're paying attention to the clues the game gives you. The good news is that even discounting 
 the time lost from deaths and wandering aimlessly, Warrior Within is a much longer game than The 
 Sands of Time. In fact, it should take the average player around 15 to 20 hours to complete. While 
 the middle of the game feels like it drags a bit, an interesting twist toward the end has a drastic 
 effect on gameplay. This same twist also freshens things up for the home stretch, which ultimately 
 delivers you to the final, rather difficult, boss fight.  

  Like last year's game, the prince has the ability to rewind time for a few seconds to correct mistakes. 
 This is a clever game conceit that lets you make up a missed jump or a combat blunder without wasting 
 time to reload the game. There are also other time-related abilities, such as speed, which come 
 in handy for both combat and getting through traps. There are additional spell-like abilities that 
 can knock back and damage multiple enemies that surround the prince. All these are limited by sand 
 slots, which can be recharged by defeating enemies in combat or by breaking open jars and other 
 items strewn about various rooms.  

          Combat is noticeably gory in Warrior Within.     

  The biggest new addition to the 
 game is a deeper combat mechanic. The prince is now capable of dozens of different weapon combos, 
 and these are context sensitive depending on whether you are holding a single weapon or dual-wielding 
 two weapons. With a single weapon in hand, you can grab enemies and throw them. You can even strangle 
 them. Dual-wielding takes away your throw options, but it lets you perform much more powerful weapon 
 combos. What's interesting is that the effect of your moves changes depending on what type of weapon 
 you have in your left hand, which is the prince's less-dominant hand. With a mace in your right 
 hand, you can knock opponents to the ground, while a sword in your left hand lets you to chop enemies 
 in half with certain combos. The weapon in your left hand also degrades with use, so you'll always 
 need to pick up new ones that are dropped by fallen foes. Otherwise, you can choose to throw your 
 secondary weapon at enemies in attempts to impale or behead them. You can, of course, still vault 
 off of enemies and walls for more-powerful slashing attacks, and a new pole-swinging attack has 
 been added. There's also plenty of blood and gore in Warrior Within to further spice things up. 
 As a result, beheadings and halved bodies are par for the course once you get used to the better 
 fighting moves.     

  With all these new moves available, you can imagine that there's a lot more combat in Warrior Within 
 than in The Sands of Time. It's also quite a bit more difficult in spots. Enemies will come at 
 you several more at a time, so you'll need to become proficient with your moves to survive. Eventually, 
 though, you'll find that you can get through the game more efficiently when you quickly end battles 
 by throwing opponents off of high ledges rather than laboriously finishing them off with your weapons. 
 There are a few boss fights in the game, but, unfortunately, quite a bit of recycling has been 
 employed, so these confrontations aren't as memorable as they could have been. What's more, most 
 of the high-level weapon combos are all but useless against bosses, because these combos tend to 
 get blocked. You'll end up relying mostly on dodging and the simplest of combos to steadily winnow 
 health away from bosses.  

          Level design is still the strength of Warrior Within.     

  Despite the revamped combat, 
 the strength of Warrior Within, as in the last game, lies in its environmental puzzles. As the 
 prince, you'll need to rely on your vast array of acrobatic moves to navigate your way through 
 many cleverly designed rooms and traps. You can still jump, wall run, climb, mantle, swing, and 
 vault your way from ledge to ledge and from branch to branch. You can also now make swashbuckler-style 
 controlled falls by sinking your sword into wall tapestries and then sliding straight down as you 
 slice through them to slow your descents. Completing the game's fiendish puzzles and navigating 
 your way through each room tends to be extremely fun and satisfying, and it's made all the more 
 enjoyable by the well-animated moves of the prince and the beautifully designed levels. For the 
 most part, the rooms you go through look quite natural and do not appear as big Rube Goldberg apparatuses. 
 This natural-looking level architecture contributes greatly toward successfully immersing you in 
 the game's world.  

  The developer has even found a way to add yet more intensity to the trap-and-hazard-laden rooms 
 of Warrior Within. Several times throughout the game, you'll meet up with the mystical Dahaka. 
 Each of these meetings kicks off an intense chase where you must navigate several sets of hazards 
 quickly and without hesitation, lest the Dahaka catch you. The Dahaka sequences offer a nice change 
 of pace, but our only complaint is that the camera angles used during these scenes seem to have 
 been picked for cinematic effect rather than efficacy of control. Consequently, repeating a chase 
 scene a few extra times due to less-than-ideal camera angles can be frustrating.  

  The biggest disappointment with Warrior Within, though, actually has nothing to do with its technical 
 gameplay. With the new emphasis on combat, which has been spiced up with added blood and gore (and 
 an M rating) , the game has taken on a much darker tone. The new prince in Warrior Within is no 
 longer the dignified, self-deprecating nobleman he was in The Sands of Time. Instead, he comes 
 off as an arrogant brute who yells out conceited taunts during combat, such as "You should be honored 
 to die by my sword!" and "Why do you even bother?" While the new attitude could be explained away 
 by his desperation, it all serves to make the prince a much-less-likable character. Add in the 
 soundtrack, which has some bass-heavy, heavy metal influences, and the wistful fairy tale style 
 of The Sands of Time has given way to a game that feels like it's trying a little too hard to be 
 edgy.  

  Some technical flaws in the game also mar the experience somewhat. In certain cutscenes, for example, 
 the audio lags behind the lip synching and subtitles. This is a minor disappointment, because the 
 sound effects in the game, aside from some ham-handed voice acting from the prince, are excellent 
 and impactful. On the graphics front, the prerendered cutscenes stutter noticeably from time to 
 time. There aren't too many of these types of movies, though, so they don't detract too much from 
 what is a very beautiful-looking game overall.  

          Warrior Within is ultimately a worthy follow-up to its predecessor.     

  As far as 
 the interface goes, the developer has done a good job of making the game playable with a mouse 
 and keyboard. So with a bit of practice, you'll be able to successfully pull off all the prince's 
 acrobatic moves and combat combos. However, the game is still best played with a proper controller, 
 if only for the added precision of an analog stick.  

  Prince of Persia: Warrior Within is an excellent sequel to a game that caught many by surprise 
 last year. Those who enjoy navigating through beautifully designed levels, complete with clever 
 puzzles and traps, will definitely get their fill of them here. Moreover, the combat has improved 
 greatly, although it's still not the principle strength of the game. However, those who primarily 
 enjoyed last year's The Sands of Time for its original charm and subtle character development may 
 not find quite what they're looking for in this sequel. But even with this caveat, Prince of Persia: 
 Warrior Within is easy to recommend for any action adventure fan, and its lengthier campaign should 
 keep players busy for a lot longer this time around.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (160 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Mehluv
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 30, 2009 1:42 am PT
Review:  I admit I was one of those unfortunate souls who jumped late into the PoP bandwagon (it was end-2006) . 
 The game was ambitious and exhilarating, and would have been perfect, if the fighting elements 
 hadn't been a little repetitive, and the bugs had been debugged. After finishing the game, I bought 
 PoPWW immediately. Some of the pros are mentioned below.
  
  + Graphics - If the SoT experience made you go "wow", you will gasp at the environments in WW. 
 It has lost the fairytale sheen, however.
  
  + Gore - The creators have gone all out on gore. Further details mentioned below.
  
  + Action 
 - The action is simply mind-bending. You can actually use the enemies to kill themselves. Approach 
 an enemy, and you can - i) Vault attack; ii) Rebound to another enemy; iii) hold and strangle; 
 iv) hold and throw; and v) hold, stick a sword in the back, take the enemy's weapon and stick it 
 in too, take both out and cut the head.
  
  Now, for the cons.
  
  - Sound - This area deserves a zero. Heavy metal is not used for
  fantasy action-adventures. 
 Yuri Lowenthal, the voice-actor who made us love the prince, is replaced by a C-grade voice-actor, 
 who makes us hate the prince. Hacking and slashing is cool, hearing the prince growl like a constipated 
 dog while doing this is not. A character actually has a different voice in the FMVs, and a different 
 voice in the game!
  
  - Bugs - Rather than eliminate them, Ubisoft tries to hide them. It doesn't work.
  
  - Repetitiveness 
 - To increase the length of the game by making us explore the same areas over and over again is 
 defined as Repetitiveness. This game goes by the textbook.
  
  
  Oh why, oh why did the developers throw the winning SoT formula into the trash can? I really wish 
 they would have done something in the same line as SoT. However, if wishes were pennies, I would 
 have been able to get over this headache that is PoPWW. Don't get me wrong, if you have never played 
 PoPSoT, you will love PoPWW. PoPSoT worshippers will however be left sorely disapointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: finisher77
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 21, 2009 3:01 pm PT
Review:  Who are you people giving this game scores of "9" and "10"?
  
  Talk about a die-hard fan contingent.
  
  If you like the following "features":
  
  1) not 
 being able to save when you like, but instead having to fight the same scenes over and over until 
 you make it past the preset checkpoints. (Ooooohhhh! It adds to the tension! Keeps you on the edge 
 of your seat, because you can't just save the game whenever you want! The risk of having to reload 
 and replay the same 15 minutes over and over SURE ADDS TO THE FUN!)
  
  2) having a free camera rather than a trailing-view camera. There's NO option for a locked-in trailing-view 
 camera, so you have the added "challenge" of accustoming yourself to an unnatural and unintuitive 
 camera.
  
  ... if you like those "features" then you're going to LOVE "Prince of Persia: Warrior Within."
 
  
  If you're like me, though, and you actually like PC games that are developed without these kinds 
 of wishy-washy quirks, then you're going to find this one frustrating. The graphics are lovely, 
 and the concept seems fascinating; but I just cannot get around the lack of save game and the grossly 
 out-of-whack camera.
  
  I wonder if these gushing reviewers actually know what it's like to play an action PC game with 
 a blessedly intuitive locked-in camera and no save-game hassles? This one is far from immersive, 
 with its unintelligent and idiosyncratic interface. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chandu83
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 14, 2009 11:53 pm PT
Review:  Prince of Persia Warrior Within is a sequel to Sands of Time. The story picks up seven years after 
 the Sands of Time. 
  
  The Prince finds himself hunted by the Dahaka, the guardian of the timeline. Anyone who opens the 
 sands of time should die, but the Prince escaped his fate, and the Dahaka who is a reincarnation 
 of fate, tries to ensure that the Prince dies as he was meant to. 
  
  Seeking counsel from an old wise man, the Prince learns of the existence of the Island of Time, 
 where the Sands of Time were created, which is ruled by the Empress of Time. The Prince sets sail 
 for the Island of Time to attempt to prevent the Sands of Time from being created. The mysterious 
 island is said to contain several time portals which enable the Prince to travel back in time. 
 He believes that if there are no Sands of Time, the Dahaka will cease to exist as well.
  
  The story has taken a much darker turn this time around. The Prince is no more the young and restless 
 chap he was in Sands of Time. He is weary, scruffy and very angry. 
  
  The premise of the story is very interesting to me, but the way it is told was very convoluted. 
 I was really confused some way through the game about my objectives, and I was playing through 
 the levels not knowing what was going on. This made the game less immersive. 
  
  Although you understand the bigger picture of the plot, you are never quite sure the exact reason 
 you are doing something. This is a result of the complicated story telling. Having said that, the 
 story is unique and I quite enjoyed the ending and reading about the plot that I had missed during 
 the game. 
  
  The level design is very interesting. Rather than taking the player to different locations, the 
 whole game is set in a big palace. While you get to explore the palace, which is quite big, you 
 get to do it in different time periods  the past and the present. 
  
  Traveling through time will greatly modify the levels; in the past, the palace is shown in all 
 its glory, and in the present, it is a vine covered derelict with walls crumbling apart, and in 
 a state of ruin.
  
  
  I like the concept of showing the same levels at different times. It brings a sense of nostalgia. 
 Having said that, the complex story telling disorients the player and the objective is not quite 
 evident. This means a lot of needless backtracking. Of course, not all players might feel find 
 this as a problem.
  
  Combat is something I enjoyed for most part. The much publicized freestyle combat is a lot of fun. 
 It was a little difficult to get all the combos right at the exact time you want to execute them, 
 and often the combat turns into furious button mashing, yet it is very entertaining. Sometimes 
 you got to pull off some really cool moves unintentionally  that is a very sweet feeling. There 
 are a lot of combos to perform, and the game sets up quite well to execute them. The quality of 
 animation is superb.
  
  But like all other aspects of the game, there is a flip side to this. Certain parts in the game 
 are very frustrating, especially when you don't get to have better weapons, and you get to see 
 the Game Over screen very often. 
  
  The camera sometimes plays tricks and it is not possible to align it the way you like, making it 
 harder to control the character. The controls are camera dependent, meaning W does not always mean 
 forward, so should you ever be hanging onto a pillar and need to a jump to a ledge, if you do not 
 align your camera right, you might leap to your death. If you have enough sands though, it's always 
 possible to rewind. 
  
  I got the feeling that the game was unduly challenging sometimes because of the gameplay issues 
 rather than the player's ability. 
  
  The boss fights are tedious at times and it requires a lot of retrying, which was very frustrating 
 for me, especially because the camera has a mind of its own, and decides to act a little crazy 
 during a crucial fight. 
  
  I understand that having checkpoints in a game will make it exciting for some, but there were times 
 when I wished it had a proper save system and I wouldn't have to go through the same part over 
 and over again. 
  
  Graphics in the game are very good, and they are very scalable, so older computers can handle this 
 game very well. The environments are both vibrant and colorful or dreary and desolate depending 
 on the time period. 
  
  Puzzles are for the most part are very well designed. Puzzles for the same level change with the 
 time period, this is because they are environment based, and the environment sometimes vastly differs 
 with time. 
  
  The choice of music for this game is very strange. I loved the music in Sands of Time and I was 
 hoping I would see (hear) more of the same, but to my surprise, there was Rob Zombie playing in 
 the background. I am a fan of heavy metal music, but in this case, it's definitely out of place. 
 I would have loved more of the Persian/Middle Eastern kind of music in this game. 
  
  All said and done, Warrior Within is a solid game. I do not have second thoughts about recommending 
 this. Keep in mind though that there is frustration in store for you, but it's a great journey. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: body-n
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 18, 2009 4:55 am PT
Review:  It is realy an interesting game and the video graphic is realy realy perfect and what the prince 
 able to do is amazing and this is one of best games in the world but some views is not good but 
 this is wonderful game and I finished it and I am enjoyed with the game and it is little hard and 
 the prince is very strong and the dagger is beautiful and strong and the story of game is very 
 exciting and this game is big game and there is many places and many monsters and it is three parts 
 from this game part one is sands of time part two is Warrior Within part three is The Two Thrones 
 and this is realy perfect and amazing game and I love it very much this is realy realy interesting 
 and exciting game with perfect story and there is many people and monsters in the story game with 
 realy realy realy perfect graphic this is wonderful game and story with interesting graphic 
::::::

::::::
UserName: orcsblade
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 24, 2009 6:37 am PT
Review:  When I first played this game I was expecting something like the sands of time in terms of storyline 
 and dialogue and lovely looking environments but oh no its one big shock. First thought, isn't 
 this suppose to be sequel to the sands of time? Everything is completely changed, its like the 
 producers took everything that the sands of time did right and through it all out the window. The 
 tone is now all dark and creepy atmosphere. Why did they do that, oh thats right to get more sells 
 and to make a bigger profit. Ok it may be completely different from the sands of time but I have 
 got to say that I enjoy this sequel very much.
  
  Plot - weak when compared to the first game and the dialogue is the worst part of the game and 
 in fact the whole series.
  
  Graphics - quite good back in 2004, they have a dark tone and feel to it, love the water and gardens 
 level top class stuff. Although (not just this level everyone) when I adjust the gamma level up 
 brighter the graphics look really crappy and dated but if you lower the gamma the graphics are 
 much better.
  
  Game play - the movements of the prince are mostly same as the first game but the new combat fighting 
 system is spectacular, the moves you can use against the enemies are amazing
  
  Sound- very good sound effects in the fighting and environments effects like water flowing, in 
 fact the whole game has very good sound effects. 
  Music- best part of this game, i have the soundtrack and i think it is definitely worth getting, 
 its all metal mostly repeated, but I think it works with the game. I guest if you like metal your 
 going to like this game anyway.
  
  Value- is Ok some points can have replay potential, but the story and dialogue is bad and brings 
 down value a lot but the combat system brings it back up.
  
  Pros- Very nice graphics, good game play, excellent fighting system. 
  
  Cons- The cut scenes 
 wouldn't allow you to skip pass and can be very annoying, the storyline is weak, dialogue is appalling 
 its so bad you can laugh at it, very long campaign you would want it to just end and the ending 
 has two ending which is stupid just having the one ending is enough and one of the endings are 
 very bad it just should not be in there.
  
  Overall its a very enjoyable game to play with and also the excellent combat system which saved 
 the game from failure, but its simply the weakest of the three. 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: vortex_gw
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 2, 2008 10:38 am PT
Review:  With the new Prince of Persia just around the corner I have decided to share my thoughts on the 
 previous proper Prince of Persia games. The Sands of time trilogy is one of my favourite games 
 series. Now let's continue with the second in the series  Prince of Persia: Warrior Within.
  
  The adventures of the nameless prince of persia continue with a great cut-scene in which we 
 find out that after the prince released the sands of time a terrible beast called Dahaka has been 
 chasing him and now the prince is looking for a way to get rid of Dahaka and change his fate. He 
 must find the island of time and stop the sands from ever been created. Seven years the prince 
 has been cruising the seas to find that island.
  
  This chapter in the prince of persia series is with dark and angry tone which by many people is 
 considered unnecessary because the previous game had such a nice tone which everybody liked. From 
 what I've heard this is what people don't like in the game and they've underrated the game. In 
 my opinion this is the way it should be. Been chased by undefeatable foe, wondering the seas for 
 7 years and like the prince said this was the first time he felt fear. Basically he is fighting 
 for his life every day. This will make every person selfish and angry. This is not a problem for 
 me and I liked the character despite that the prince was a jerk. Ubisoft Monreal did a great job 
 and I just can't hate this character.
  
  With that out of the way, everything in the game has been improved. Better graphics, better combat 
 system ( facing multiple enemies at the same time and now the prince has many comboes he can perform) , 
 longer satisfyingly longer campaign, great environments ( imo even better) , great puzzles and traps, 
 more and better boss fights, great story with twists and secret game ending. You can now choose 
 a difficulty level. In my opinion all this makes Warrior Within the best prince of persia game 
 and actually it's my second favourite game of all time.
  
  You will meet the empress of time and Dahaka. There are pretty cool running sequences where Dahaka 
 is chasing you and you have to get to water before he catches up with you.
  
  In this game you don't have the dagger of time to manipulate time but you have a medallion which 
 Farah gave you in the previous game. The medallion gives you the same abilities the rewind and 
 slow down time. In addition to the many comboes you can perform you will gain an ultimate attack 
 which is helpful in some cases and not so helpful in other.
  
  Again Warrior Within is a great sequel to a great game, I can say that it's even better than the 
 first game. I can't believe how can people b*tch so much about the dark tone in this game. In my 
 opinion Warrior Within is better in every way compared to Sands of Time. That said, Prince of Peria 
 Trilogy is the game series I respect the most so I think it's the best action adventure game series 
 for the PC.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lightscout_11
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 8, 2008 9:03 am PT
Review:  After i finished Sands of Time i was astonished. The last part of the game was simply magic. After 
 i finished i installed Warrior Within. The only bad part about this game is that for 15 hours i 
 kept waiting for that magic moment which SoT had. Maybe that's just me. Anyway the story was rly 
 good compared to other games. It was rly nice to keep switching from past to present. The environments 
 were nice, but a little to dark for me. Now the rest of things are great about this game. It had 
 the best music in the trilogy, heavy-metal made by Godsmack witch rly pumps the adrenaline in you 
 (also im a big metal fan) . Also another great thing is that they improved the combat (the worst 
 part in SoT) so its no longer boring , with the same moves, but with lots of combos and tricks 
 u can do on your enemies. Also we have more boss fights (they are rly fun) . If u found SoT too short 
 (i did) u gonna find this much longer (which is good in my opinion) .
  
  Great game but not as good as Sands of Time 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gashoe13
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 1, 2008 2:39 am PT
Review:  Players who've played Prince of Persia the sands of time will remember a gorgeous adventure filled 
 with wall-running, puzzles, sand zombies, sword-fighting, and an excellent story. It, however, 
 didn't have much to it's combat system. It's combat system was way too simple, and wasn't all that 
 enjoyable. Ubisoft decided to fix this. So, they changed the combat system and the light tone into 
 a gore-filled, crazed system and a very dark tone. 
  Anyone new to the series who liked Devil may cry or God of War should pick this one up, as it features 
 crazy amounts of gore and some pretty stylish moves, as well as some crazy difficulty.
  This time, Ubisoft also decided to add some highly erotic characters: Shahdee and Kalieena. Both 
 of them wear hardly any clothes, and guess what? In the end, if you beat the game nicely enough 
 and pick up the water sword, you get to see a cutscene in which the prince decides to have sex 
 with princess Kalieena. How nice.
  Of course, it's not all bad. the puzzles and wall-running are still intact, and the combat is gorgeous. 
 It is much longer, but has erotic stuff in it. I would have done nicely without that kinda stuff. 
 Although the game still does nicely what it did before, it also pumps up the difficulty level. 
 Did I mention how hard the Dahaka is in the end? 
  Anyways, in the end, Warrior Within is a crazy game much harder than before but better in a way. 
 Istill don't agree with sex, and I beg that Ubisoft change that crap. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iamcj007
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 19, 2008 7:50 pm PT
Review:  What is the real name of prince of Persia? Who knows and who cares ?
  
  We start from the end of sot and the storyline goes. It is a very good game and full of action, 
 adventure and puzzles. It goes deep in to the Island of time and gets more Interesting. Environment 
 is the best thing about it. you will get to fight on sea shore ,in sea, in caves and in prisons, 
 hanging gardens are also placed in the game.
  
  The most impressive is the sound of the game. Really mind blowing and rocking.
  
  You get different 
 kinds of swords to use and which is really a lot of fun.
  
  The main moron Dhaka comes then and now and pursues you then and now which makes game more interesting. 
 A must buy game. Just play it once and remember for your whole life.
  
  There a some bugs in the game which give a head ache but doesnot interfear the gameplay.
  
 
  Jatin's rating
  Graphics : 9/10
  Sound : 9/10
  Gameplay : 9.5/10
  Story : 10/10
  
  Other recomendations 
  Prince of Persia sands of time
  Prince of Persia the two thrones
  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RomanianVampire
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 22, 2008 12:54 am PT
Review:  Prince of Persia warrior within is one of the best games ever, the plot is set after Prince of 
 Persia The sands of time and now the prince has to go to The island of time to defeat the Empress 
 of time. As the game begins your ship is attacked and evryone dies except of the prince he reaches 
 the island in one piece, next you'll see a completly ruined island, but as you advance in the game 
 you can travel through time and see the island in it's days of glory. The graphics are great there 
 are nice areas with well put special effects like a cave wich is full of mist and you can't see 
 anything, or the palace area and certain rooms with sand and smoke floating in the light. But the 
 really great thing about POP2WW is the game-play more precise the combat style, a new thing is 
 developed the free-form-fighting-system you are able to perform deadly moves with speed you can 
 run on walls slide down by stabbing your sword in the curtains, use two swords wich allows you 
 to make even more deadly moves and gives you a lot of possibilities on how to attack a enemy, or 
 more enemies you are also able to use the environment in completing your mission and also in fights, 
 the game is full of traps puzzles and tricks so be careful and look very good before doing something.
 
  Another great thing about this game is the story-line it's not a standard story for example after 
 you kill the empress and you think evrything is over there is a slide 
  change and you realise that you made a mistake and you need to take a mask wich will transport 
 you through time 
  so that you can change your fate and you'll have to reach the empress faster than your 'other self' 
 and only 
  when he dies you can take his place and complet your quest, another speciality of this game is 
 the Dahaka the guardian of time wich can't be defeated so evrytime you run into him you have to 
 run and find a way to escape, the game can also be finished in two different ways I advise you 
 to try both ways so you'll fully understand the game, in one ending you kill the empress 
  and in the other you kill the Dahaka and save yourself and the empress.
  In conclusion POP2WW 
 is a great game that's worth playing you can't call yourself a gamer untill you play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Triplep1103
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 18, 2008 7:09 pm PT
Review:  This is the second installment in the trilogy. Since the prince has been running from the Dahaka, 
 an creature who wants to kill the prince because he was part of unleashing the sands of time in 
 the first game, he is much more violent then in the first game.
  
  In this game the prince must journey to the island of time and prevent the sands from ever being 
 created. Then the dahaka will have nothing to settle with him. Of course the island is filled with 
 many things for the prince to do his acrobatic tricks with. The new combat system is brutal and 
 includes cutting enemies heads of and slicing them in half. Along his way to killing the empress 
 he defeats huge creatures, meets up with another girl who isn't like Farah but helps him in a different 
 way. Once he gets to the empress there are many different twists. Also during the game there are 
 times when the Dahaka appears and the prince must run from him to not get killed.
  
  I think this is definitely a worthy sequel to the first game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vishalkhare
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 10, 2008 3:41 am PT
Review:  After playing Prince Of persia SAnds of time i knew that this game would turn out even better. people 
 at ubisoft, hat s off to you. the gameplay in Sands of time was the trademark and i'm glad its here 
 too. the previous game was worhty of game of the year. the story carries on from where it ended 
 in the previous installment. but this time there are a few changes. the prince's attitude is no 
 longer like a prince (after farah's death i didn't expect it to be) , he looks like a nomad. the 
 whole gameplay has changed little but the trademark wall run is the same. the dahaka chases are 
 really fast paced . the adrenaline rushes so fast and you become so excited. but the ending of 
 the game is messed up big time. the secret ending should have been the death of kaileena not the 
 dahaka's death. as the next sequel shows that kaileena is alive. i'm taking about two thrones. but 
 still the series is amazing. this is VishalKhare Signing off. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chirodip_08
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 7, 2008 4:06 am PT
Review:  Though it is the second Prince Of Persia, it feels like a completely new game. It is completely 
 different from The Sands Of Time. This game generally revolves around the Prince's attempts to save 
 himself from death. He plans to talk himself out of death but as usual it does'nt work.
  The game play is quite difficult but seeing the graphics and hearing the sound, you'll find yourself 
 playing the game no matter how difficult it gets hour by hour.
  The main feature of this game is the Prince's combos. It BLOWS off your head (literally) seeing how 
 well he executes his combos, which are prodigious in number.
  The main enemy in this game is The Dahaka, the guardian of the time line, Shahdee, and the Empress 
 of Time herself.
  The traps have evolved from the previous game, and sometimes take quite a long time to figure out.
 
  The atmosphere no longer remains comical like its predecessor, it has darkened beyond your imagination.
 
  But still, the game is worth playing because of its excellent game play and everything else that 
 can make a game like Warrior Within. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Screamer201
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 25, 2008 3:47 am PT
Review:  This game is the second from Pop Trilogy but the game is short for me. In the game the player can 
 kill using different combos and deadly weapons. In the first game (Pop: Sands of Time) the player 
 have nothing but the dagger of time and a sword and cannot perform, only one combo. The game is more 
 realistic and amazing then the first. I reccomand, to play this game but on the PS2.
  The story: Warrior Within takes place several years after the events of The Sands of Time. The Prince, 
 having originally released the Sands, is being hunted by the Dahaka, guardian of the timeline. 
 The Dahaka is a massive dark warrior that serves fate and will pursue the Prince until he is dead. 
 Desperate and weary from the years of running, the Prince makes a final play, heading to the Island 
 of Time. The hope is that if the Prince can somehow go into the past, he can stop the Empress before 
 she ever creates the Sands of Time, meaning he would never have opened them and the Dahaka would 
 have no cause for its hunt. Check it out right now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: afwsl2003
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 10, 2008 7:55 am PT
Review:  Once i finished the sands of time I heard the POP is a trilogy. though I was happy I was intrigued 
 as to how the storyline is going to be. Since the sands of time ended smoothly and didnt show any 
 signs of a sequel i wondered how the creators could come up with a story line to continue the sands 
 of time. 
  
  But once i started playing the WW it came evident to me that my doubts were wrong. the storyline 
 was excellent though there were some gaping holes in between. The idea of sand guardian was really 
 cool. Every time you are being chased by the dahaka your heart pounds really fast, and thats what 
 you need from a game, pure thrill (some thing similar to being chased by cops in nfs most wanted) . 
 
  
  The one noticeable thing is the free form fighting system. It helps to use the environment to the 
 advantage of the player. And dual sword combat is another revolution. 
  all in all the game is fantastic and is a well developed one 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _EradicatoR_
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 27, 2008 8:29 am PT
Review:  When Sands of time released in 2003 it amazed gamers with its great and gorgeous looking environments 
 and became really popular because of its subtle character and charming looks. Since this was the 
 first 3D game of Prince of Persia, expectations were high and this game really stunned and surprised 
 everyone and became a huge hit among its fans. Its sequel, Warrior Within has nothing less to offer. 
 The game released after a year and was amazingly different. The new dark tone might not look good 
 to everyone but it certainly impressed me. Ubisoft Montreal made up for their biggest mistake and 
 made a long campaign for the game making it a great and worthy sequel.
  
  Plot:
  After the Prince used the Sands of Time to turn back time and rewrite history, he finds himself 
 being chased by the Dahaka, the Guardian of the Timeline, who is sent to ensure that the Prince 
 dies and thus restore order to the Time line. The Prince learns about the existence of the Island 
 of Time - Birthplace of the Sands of Time, governed by the Empress of Time, from an old wise man. 
 Full of pride, anger and thinking only about himself, the Prince leaves for the Island of Time 
 to prevent the sands from being created and hence destroying the reason for Dahaka to chase him...
 
  
  Gameplay:
  The Gameplay has gone though some major changes this time around. The Prince can wield two weapons 
 and can perform several combos and some pretty useful sand attacks. The Prince can use the environment 
 around him to his advantage and attack multiple enemies at the same time. The sand tanks in this 
 game have been reduced to six and many new traps have been introduced to make this game a little 
 bit more challenging. The life upgrade challenges are now full of intelligently laid down traps. 
 Ubisoft has concentrated alot on combat this time around and the toughness of the
  combat sequences has been increased and is much superior and more complicated than any other Prince 
 of Persia title out there. The number of boss fights in this game have also been increased and 
 are more exciting, which is another plus for this game.
  
  There are time portals in the game using which the prince can travel through time and hence the 
 game has to be played both in the past and present. While playing in the past, the traps are the 
 main problems, while the present being more scary, has dangerous enemies and the fast and furious 
 Dahaka chases. The game is no longer linear as well. There are some areas that are accessible only 
 after acquiring certain abilities. There are many twists in the game, the most surprising one coming 
 after seventy percent of the game is complete. This last section of the game has alot in store, 
 is very interesting and is definitely the high point of this game.
  
  Graphics, Sound and Techinicality:
  Unlike Sands of Time, the environments in Warrior Within 
 are dark and gory rather than being subtle and calm. This is a good and refreshing change in my 
 opinion. The architecture in some areas is just amazing, like the towers in the Garden area and 
 the dark mechanical tower which is full of levers, gears, and pendulums. The game is vastly different 
 from Sands of Time, but it's still a great, great game. But, there are certain similarities (good 
 and bad) as well - The soundtracks are again brilliantly composed which adds to the greatness of 
 this game, but are exact opposite of the Sands of Time ones. They aren't soothing but definitely 
 set your pulse racing as they are full of rock guitar.
  
  There are some technical flaws in the game that ruin the experience somewhat. The camera angles 
 are still a big problem specially during combat sequences. This is one area Ubisoft really needs 
 to work on. Voice synchronization is another problem, for example, in certain cut-scenes, the audio 
 lags behind the lip synching which is disappointing. There is a bit of stuttering in the game as 
 well but this is very minor flaw.
  
  Summing up:
  Other than the many new elements that have been introduced in the game,
  there are collectibles 
 to hunt for this time out and an alternate ending. I've always been a fan of the Prince of Persia 
 franchise and, Overall, I think Warrior Within is a great sequel to Sands of Time and lives up 
 to its expectations brilliantly but those who are looking for the same charm in the game may not 
 find the game that amazing, but still Warrior Within is easily to recommended for any action adventure 
 fan.
  
  Pros: Great gameplay, visually stunning, lengthy campaign, awesome combat, amazing soundtracks.
 
  Cons: Camera angles, voice synchronization and some other minor technical flaws.
  
  This game gets an 9.3/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skilled_gamer
Rating: 10
Date: May 18, 2008 10:23 am PT
Review:  this game is an extremely diffcult game because this game play is very hard to get ued to. u really 
 neede to think bout what u are doing before u can actually do it. this game has 2 different endings 
 depenings on how you defeat this game. if u defeat this game without receiving all the life upgrades 
 ul; l just face the empress. she is a hard boss. but if you do get all the life upgrades, you will 
 get a new cool sword, the water sword and face the dahaka himself. i 100% reccomend u get all life 
 upgrades because if u dont... u will not understand the begginging of "prince of persia the two 
 thrones." that reason you get the water sword is as you may know the dahaka cant touch the water. 
 his moves are basic. this game takes more than 100 hours and u will not be able ot put it down 
 once you'v startd te game. very hard to stop. this game has a whole upgrade from the prevoius game. 
 better moves, looks much older... and has a harder gameplay. the plot is pretty easy to follow 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hotbodyboy_2006
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 24, 2008 1:14 pm PT
Review:  Prince Of Persia is quite easily one of the BEST GAMES ever to be made. Its the first ever SUPER 
 2D Game to be made (Though Karateka was but it was not so famous) .
  
  Sands Of Time was a really great game. It had concepts which no game had before like Rewind Time, 
 Slow Down Time. I especially love the rewind time. I wish they bring that technology in every game 
 to avoid the frustration that results due to a failure.
  
  Ok coming to this game. This game is exactly a DARK version of the sands of time game.
  
  The 
 prince is darker and has a rough earthen look which makes him look quite intimidating. There are 
 sexy girls like Shahdee and Kaileena. Giant Bosses like Golems and The Giant Bird which really 
 make you feel that you are playing a challenging game. Speaking of Challenging, the HARD MODE of 
 this game is quite easily one of the best HARD MODES in any game. There is a thin line between 
 CHALLENGING and FRUSTRATING and this game achieves the clean challenging part.
  
  The good thing and the best thing is the COMBAT. So greatly improved and you no longer have to 
 kill someone and stick that DAGGER up their Ass. Here you only hve to do one thing KILL.
  
  Combat has so many combos. Different combos make different swinging of the sword and the prince 
 can weild DUAL SWORDS. People who say that the combat is repetitive are those who don't know to 
 or don't want to do combos. Learn the combos first and perform them. This game has over 40 combos. 
 So to hell with the word repetitive. LIFE UPGRADES are harder and SCARIER. Challenging boss battles 
 with Kaileena, Shahdee & Dahaka.
  
  Aha THE DAHAKA is a mystical giant after you since he wants to kill you since you messed up with 
 the time. THE Dahaka CHASES are the BEST PART OF THIS GAME. Really Fun and Heart Pumping.
  
  Also this game is very stylish. Even the minute things such as the GAME OVER screens are presented 
 with great styles and attitude. The Level DESIGN of this game is very impressive. The levels of 
 this game as some people say are not repetitive. Its the Beautiful Story of the game thats made 
 in such a way that you can play every level in its PAST as well as PRESENT state. Things such as 
 using the PAST of a LEVEL to access the PRESENT of another level is really impressive. Minor details 
 such as a cracked wall in present and the same wall is new and shining in the PAST. Impressive. 
 Story takes so many twists and turns and at the end there are 2 ENDINGS or ALTERNATE ENDINGS. Which 
 ending you want is up to you.
  
  MUSIC : Definitely the best in any game. Hard rock HEAVY Metal music suits the game so well and 
 especially the music of the Dahaka Chase. Good contributions by Godsmack but Inon Zur takes the 
 cake.
  
  
  The Story of this game is unlike any other. Lots of twists and turns. This game will surely make 
 you watch it with your mouth wide open. Best story in the HISTORY of Prince Of Persia.
  
  OVERALL, even if you are not a prince of persia fan and loves challenges, please play this game. 
 This game is neither for LAMERS nor for GORE FREAKS. This game is for PROPER AND TRUE GAMERS. The 
 main reason its got a rating of ONLY 9 is because of its untimely glitches. Otherwise its a game 
 which could and should have been rated atleast 9.5.
  
  Running this game in a dual core, i have never encountered any glitches in this game. Call it my 
 luck or anything. Hence i rate it a clean 10/10.
  
  Lastly, this is the best game in the POP TRILOGY. I can never forget this game and will remember 
 it for years and years to come till my death. Prince Of Persia is one of my most cherished games 
 in the GAME PLANET. May not be the BEST GAME in the PS2 but definitely the Best In PC. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: viet1125
Rating: 9
Date: May 5, 2008 10:16 am PT
Review:  Many critics think that the Prince in this sequence is a Caucasian (rather than a Persian) , selfish 
 and cruel. However I still find Warrior Within more likable than The Sand of Time or The Two Thrones. 
 I only have some things to review about this game, positive ones and negative ones: 
  1. Sexy ladies: Shahdee and Kaileena, especially Kaileena. Kaileena is desirable from her looks 
 to her characteristic ( strong but unsure of herself, mystic and complicated) . The Two Thrones totally 
 missed this. Farah only looks fine in the trailer. 
  2. Yes the bugs and glitches. And if you don't want to get mad by passing through traps, get yourself 
 a game pad.
  3. Amazing graphic despite of low system requirement.
  4. The Dahaka is quite a headache unless you get familiar with the control well.
  5. Interesting 
 unlock able weapons.
  6. Beautiful gallery, especially the Kaileena's one.
  7. Great alternative ending. I love them both.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: smchacko
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 23, 2008 5:53 am PT
Review:  == Story ==
  After the events of the Sands of Time, the Prince has become an anomaly in the time line. He is 
 hunted the "Dahaka" which seeks to restore the order of time by eliminating the Prince. Hardened 
 and desperate, the Prince searches for the Island of Time where he plans to find the Empress of 
 Time and undo the creation of the Sands completely to save himself.
  
  ****** Quick Review ******
  
  Some say its the worst in the trilogy but its not, just different. 
 The Prince is now an arrogant character. The new combat system rocks, there are more enemies, the 
 story is complex and for a more mature audience. Prince of Persia fans and those new to the series 
 will be pleased with this title.
  
  ****** Detailed Review ******
  
  If you haven't played the first, it's recommended to play them in the correct order. This review 
 is directed towards those who have played Sands of Time.
  
  == Combat ==
  The new combat system is great. The prince has one "main" sword that gets upgraded a few times, 
 with names like Spider, Lion and Scorpion Sword. He can pick up secondary weapons (daggers, axes, 
 swords and maces) to engage in dual hand combat or they can be thrown at enemies. Secondary weapons 
 vary in strength and durability, they don't last long but can be replaced with fallen enemy weapons 
 or by smashing weapon racks and picking up the contents.
  
  Single and Dual hand combat are different, each having their own style of attack. The attacks are 
 more cinematic, gory and over-the top (hence the M rating) . There are torso chops, head-chops, 
 slicing in half vertically, weapon-steals and strangle-holds to name a few. There are combos with 
 their own names like "Misery Gale", "Asha's Fury" and "Rage of Darius" . They're easy to pull of 
 an fun to watch
  
  == Story ==
  More complex than the Sands of Time. Resembles "back to the future" with multiple Princes, seeing 
 events from different points of view and so on. No part of the story ever feels "tacked on" and 
 players are in for some surprises in the late game.
  
  == Visuals ==
  The prince has a new outfit and looks tougher/meaner. The new animations are still smooth. Enemies 
 now bleed. Females are all scantily clad (including the Empress of Time and Shadee) but it's not 
 anything to complain about. 
  
  == Music ==
  Warrior Within fuses heavy rock with some Middle-Eastern elements. The soundtrack is based around 
 the songs "I stand alone" and "Straight out of line" by Godsmack. It fits well with the darker 
 prince hacking up sand enemies.
  
  == Enemies ==
  Meaner looking and more varied. Some examples are: Shadows that shout in demonic voices and can 
 throw daggers while they zip around, "Ninja" type females that can jump on you and strangle you 
 with their legs. "Executioners": bulky mask wearing grunts with giant maces. Giant rabid sand-dogs. 
 A floating "crow" king that keeps returning. These are just a few.
  
  == Bosses == 
  There are a few sequences that involve a giant "golem" type enemy that can be climbed and attacked 
 on the head. There's a giant griffin boss battle. There are a few boss battles with the main female 
 characters also.
  
  == Architecture ==
  Environments are detailed, darker and sinister looking. One example is the Mechanical tower. It 
 looks like the inside of a giant clock with huge gears and pendulums swinging and turning. There 
 are other places that are soothing like the Water garden with vegetation and a complex water flow 
 system.
  
  == Puzzles ==
  Same elements (poles, switches, levers, ledges) etc, but some new ones like sliding down long curtains 
 using a dagger. There are several "quick thinking" puzzles where the prince is "chased" by the 
 Dahaka and must use his acrobatic skill to avoid him, but if he stands still for only few seconds 
 , its game-over.
  
  == Save Slots ==
  Warrior Within allows players to save at water fountains where the prince can drink and is fully 
 healed from one drink this is better than the weird "floating fetal position with visions" save 
 point system in Sands of Time.
  
  == Narration ==
  The prince talks sometimes but the story-book style of the Sand of Time is gone. Now there are 
 both game engine and pre-rendered cut-scenes. The rendered cut-scenes look less cartoony than Sands. 
 Really its' no big loss or gain.
  
  == Time Powers ==
  The "rewind" power returns, with some other sand-based attacks that damage multiple enemies. The 
 most useful ones are rewind and "eye of the storm" which slows down the prince's surroundings. 
 No big improvements here.
  
  == Time Portals ==
  Time travel is explored more in Warrior Within, as a story device and for puzzles. Using portals, 
 the Prince travels between the past and present and visits the same locations in different time 
 periods. Usually in the present these places are overgrown or in ruins and this changes the puzzles. 
 
  
  == Not Linear anymore ==
  Warrior Within isn't as linear as the first. There are some areas only accessable when a certain 
 ability is gained so some backtracking is required. A simple map helps the player keep track of 
 the prince's location.
  
  == Surprising Twists ===
  Near the last quarter of Warrior Within theres a twist segment. To avoid spoilers lets just say 
 he won't be himself for a while. This section of the game is unique and ties in with the story. 
 It is probably the most confusing (but cool) section of how the events unfold.
  
  == Bonus Materials and Extras ==
  This time there are treasure chests scattered throughout the 
 lands. Opening them unlocks extras (videos and images) . These are trailers, development videos 
 and concept art. There are top secret weapons like a Teddy Bear and Hockey stick that players can 
 find for fun. Very cool.
  
  == Multiple Endings ==
  No spoilers, but find all 9 life upgrades and an item is unlocked which changes the games ending. 
 It's not required, but the alternate ending is the one that leads to the next sequel (The Two Thrones) , 
 plus it isn't impossibly difficult to find all 9 of these upgrades. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pnkumarmohan
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 15, 2008 11:20 pm PT
Review:  The game picks up where The Sands of Time left off, adding plenty of new features, specifically, 
 options in combat. The Prince (who remains unnamed) now has the ability to wield two weapons at 
 a time as well as the ability to steal his enemies' weapons and throw them. Warrior Within has 
 a much darker tone than its predecessor adding in the ability for the Prince to dispatch his enemies 
 with violent finishing moves. The violence and more adult oriented content landed the game a "Mature" 
 rating from the ESRB.
  GAMEPLAY
  The gameplay is much like the original game but with a few major differences. The Prince can dual 
 wield weapons and throw his secondary weapon. He also has the ability to perform several combos 
 and charge attacks. In addition, the Prince can use the environment to his advantage, such as by 
 bouncing off of walls to attack enemies. This is because of Ubisoft's new gameplay system called 
 the "Free-Form Fighting" system.
  PLOT
  Seven years after the Prince used the Sands of Time to turn back time and rewrite history, he finds 
 himself hunted by the Dahaka, the Guardian of the Timeline. Because the Prince escaped his fate, 
 the Dahaka is sent to ensure that the Prince dies and thus restore order to the Timeline.
  Seeking counsel from an old wise man, the Prince learns of the existence of the Island of Time 
 - birthplace of the Sands of Time, governed by the Empress of Time. Thinking only of himself and 
 his survival, the Prince sets sail for the Island to prevent the Sands of Time from ever being 
 created. His belief is that if the Sands are not created then the Dahaka will have no reason to 
 hunt him. On the island the prince has to fight his way through sand creatures and boss monster 
 to finally kill Kaileena. The prince discovers that killing Kaileena caused the sands to form and 
 so has to go to the past so that his other form doesn't kill Kaileena and he can kill Dahaka. The 
 best part of the game are it's Dahaka chases which gets your adrenalin pumping. As I said before 
 a game wor
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mircea_calarasu
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 22, 2008 3:20 am PT
Review:  This game is probably one of the best games I have ever played. It has an exceptional storyline 
 and kept me at the edge of my seat to get to know what is going to be the next thing that would 
 happen to the Prince. Not only does it have a really good story, but what makes POP: Warrior Within 
 one a great game is the free combat system, where you can attack your enemies in different manners 
 accordingly to how your enemies react and the objects you have around you. For examples, if you 
 are practically cornered in a wall by enemies, you can run up the wall and jump off it to end up 
 by cornering your enemies instead. You can also throw your opponents of cliffs, onto traps or even 
 into his allies (your enemies) .
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay is absolutely awesome. As i said before, there are ample sets of combat 
 moves from which you can choose from. This makes the gameplay absolutely fabulous allowing you 
 to practically feel as though you are the Prince himself. The Prince's acrobatic abilities allows 
 the player to access certain parts of the temple in which the game is situated and the traps found 
 tend to make the game extremely immersive.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are not out of this world, but they are very decent and the levels were 
 made in a very nice and deep way, giving a lot of depth and detail to scenery and backrounds. The 
 temple is very realistic and has been given much detail. The bosses found, and the Dahaka chases 
 especially, show much of well made graphics at their best.
  
  Sound: The sound is very lively. Mainly heavy metal music but fits in more then perfectly with 
 the situations the Prince is living in the game.
  
  Value: Absolutely a must have. This game lasts extremely long if the player intends to unlock all 
 the movies and the artworks. The game is very tricky and will take the player a while till he ends 
 the game itself especially on hard mode which is extremely challenging. Anyone will sure get their 
 money's worth from this game!
  
  Control: On the PC, it has to be said that the controls are rather hard. both the mouse and the 
 keyboard have to be used. It tends to be rather hard at first to figure out all the buttons and 
 get used to them. However, having a controller attached to your PC will be of great help in order 
 to get used to the game right away. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gyaagagyaapo
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 21, 2008 12:39 am PT
Review:  Best game in the world. I have completed it 6 times in hard difficulty level. This game is best in 
 series. a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 
  
  +++++++++++++++++ game 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
   
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rhcpvisigoth
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 19, 2008 6:02 pm PT
Review:  Okay, I have to say that Warrior Within was perhaps the most intense and most irritating game I've 
 played since Gears of War. While GOW never stopped crashing to the desktop, the problems with WW 
 were a little more ubiquitous: the camera. I know it sounds like a weird thing to say, but I really 
 hated the camera... somehow I never had complete control over my Prince.
  
  But never mind that, I 'm sure people with better gaming skills (or better gaming hardware, for 
 that matter) will overlook this little thing. In any case, the game is absolutely stunning: the 
 cinematics, the landscapes, the storyline. I haven't seen a sexier antagonist since the babes of 
 DOA! But whatever your reason may be for buying this action-adventure, you won't regret it. Prince 
 of Persia is one of those special old-school remakes that only re-kindle the love for the old game. 
 I still miss the days of the old black and white Prince of Persia, but Warrior Within takes the 
 old formula and does wonders with it. Can't wait to play Two Thrones! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vampira_18
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 5, 2008 7:05 am PT
Review:  Prince of Persia 2: Warrior Within is the origin of the games like god of war or assassin's creed. 
 The combos, the battles and of course the rock music are the main elements of this huge success. 
 Our hero, the prince without a name, will now face one of his greatest challenges: He has to escape 
 from the terrible Dahaka, the Guardian of the Timeline (that's what happens when you mess with 
 the sands of time) . To survive, the prince went back though time to the Island of Time, birthplace 
 of the Sands of Time, governed by the Empress of Time, Kaileena (How many "Times", don't you think?) . 
 
  
  The game has a good story and soundtrack and I really enjoyed playing the game. One of the things 
 that really impress about the game is its style, most of the times during the battles. The Slow 
 motion scenes are wonderful to see and all the CG are very detailed and impressive. And one more 
 thing that I love in games: a lot of extras and different endings. So, if you want to relax and 
 do something to pass time, I think Prince of Persia 2: Warrior Within will be an appropriate choice. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: chilipepperman
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 21, 2008 10:44 pm PT
Review:  I really tried to like this game. My friend raved about it, saying how he loved everything about 
 it. The smooth graphics, the kickass gameplay, and the massive bosses. Those three things are mostly 
 true for the game. But another thing that he told me that him and i talked about is how damn hard 
 this game is. i havent (and probably never will) finished the game, and already i have seen the 
 game over screen way too many times.
  This just adds to a level of frustration that doesnt need to be added. Really its a good game, 
 but its not great, and certaintly doesnt decerve anything above a 6. I dont know why people are 
 rating this game so high. ITS NOT THAT GOOD, GET OVER IT!!! i dont know why you would want to play 
 such a hard and repitive game. i really wanted to like it, but in the end, it just broke out the 
 warrior within myself to hit the "uninstall "button in my start menu. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: baazigar_2000
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 19, 2008 7:31 am PT
Review:  What we see now is the Prince in his more sword-handling form, as well as the puzzle-solving hero, 
 we saw in Sands of Time...... only he has changed... but so has his srroundings!!!!!
  
  The Prince is warned beforehand of the Dahaka... a mysterious, Prince-devouring creature.... who 
 is hel bent on.... er... devouring the Prince..... as he had been offended by the release of the Sands 
 in the previous POP adventure........ so the Prince has a bright idea of prveenting the Sands from 
 ever being created.... thus elduing the dodgey Dahaka, and saving his own life!!!!!! But the old 
 man who advises him says that it is not easy to defy fate...... rather, it is not possible to alter 
 it at all..... but the Prince, rash as ever in this game, is hell-bent on stopping the Dahaka, and 
 thus marches off to see his fellow crew members aboard the... erm.... what was the name of his ship 
 again???? The Babylon Rogue.... no thats a group from Sonic Riders... ah well.....
  
  The Prince is somewhat at sea with his crew when this adventure starts in the midst of a ferocious 
 storm....... We see him recollecting some previous fights he had with recent sand monsters..... and 
 lo and behold it is the same creatures which hijack his ship, kill all his shipmates, and allow 
 their leader (Shahdee.... Betty Boo lookalike) to have a go at the Prince and prevent him from reaching 
 the Island where the Sands of Time now stand.......
  
  The Prince does beat Shahdee.... but she gets the upper hand (as they do) just after Princey delivers 
 the final strike...... he later wakes up, shipwrecked, on the Island, brushes himself off, grabs 
 a tree branch, and sets off to put right what he could not do so in the past...... 
  
  We now see a more dank and dismal eniroment every step of the way..... although you can travel back 
 and forth to change it in this game.... as well as choose a vriety of different endings depending 
 on what you get upto....
  
  The most amazing thing about this game is that it introduces the system of free from fighting...... whereby 
 you can use an arsenal of devastaing fighting combos of your choice, to create your own fighting 
 style.......
  
  The Sands of time can again be used as one wishes..... to slow down time or to even reverse it...... but 
 more skilss develop as you progress through the game..... now you can hack away at itmes like pots 
 and containers, that will relase sand for you to top up (in the new sand collecter thingy loacted 
 on the Princes' armour..... nifty!!!!!!)
  
  Now there are even more blood-curdling enmies galiore to fend off with your flashy swordplay and 
 upgraded weapnoary (did I say you get stronger swords throughout the game???) and there are now 
 BIG (and i mean BIG) bosses to faets your eyes (and sword) upon...... but it takes more than swift 
 slashing to kill these barmy buggers!!!!!
  
  The environemts, as ever, are quite quite beautiful.... whether they are the dark and dank chmabers 
 of the Island... or the greenly-georgeous vegitation of the locally (overgrown, should we say?) 
 farming allotments...... and again, you can use free form fighting to interact with your surroudnigns 
 to fight and solve puzzles.......
  
  The Prince now seems to have a bit of a sulking mood.... well, I guess he is still rcovering for 
 the Sands of Time trauma.............. but now he seems so scruffy and unkempt... where have all 
 those cute and cuddly charms gone from his firts adventure??!?!?!?. its a good thing he can still 
 use a sword, so people dont think he is as bland as he seems..... As well as the Prince... u encounter 
 idiots like Shahdee...... the Empress of time.... and of course, the dismal Dahaka...... so walk on 
 walk on, with hope in your heart, and you'll never walk  the Prince 
 does get a bit lonely from time to time..... no pun intended...... when theres no one knocking about 
 the place, eh wot????
  
  Now the music.... woah man.... we see more gutar rifts and bass drum than ever on this adventure..... as 
 well the occasional tabla and Asian vocals, whihc truely bring home the Eastern fell of this game...... the 
 voice of the Prince is pretty gruf... but I suppose it would be after getting all that sand into 
 your lungs... and whats this... he even swears onec at the start of the game!!??!?? TUT TUT...... where 
 have the mannerisms of the Prince got to (down the drain, i suppose, with al lthis sand flying 
 about) he even uses catch phrases like 'Slaughtered!!!' and 'You will pay for your transgression!!!' 
 Whilst thwarting the equally verbose enemies......
  
  All in all, it is largley different to the first PS2 outing... but is uniquely beautiful and a delight 
 to play..... I am about half way through it, and loving every step of it... by the way, I have got 
 stuck on this on a few occasions, but have not depended on the walkthroughs to help me out.... I 
 have stuck to the rule; there is always a way out!!!!!!
  
  Bravo bravo, marvellous, I say!!!!!!!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hari006
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 15, 2008 9:23 am PT
Review:  Sands of Time seemed an impossible product to best, but Warrior Within does so handily. All of 
 the platforming elements are still present, such as wall-running and avoiding spikes, but the new 
 combat features really push this game over the top. Finishing off enemies with that wicked Heart 
 Render move is cooler than cool.
  
  Warrior Within takes place several years after the events of The Sands of Time. The Prince, having 
 originally released the Sands, is being hunted by the Dahaka, a guardian of the timeline. The Dahaka 
 is a foul, unstoppable beast that will pursue the Prince until he is dead. Desperate and weary 
 from the years of running, the Prince makes a final play, heading to the Island of Time. The hope 
 is that if the Prince can somehow go into the past, he can stop the Empress before she ever creates 
 the Sands of Time, meaning he would never have opened them and the Dahaka would have no cause for 
 its hunt.
  
  The premise certainly sounds good and the story of Warrior Within has more complexity than the 
 simpler fable of The Sands of Time. Ubisoft chose to use this story to darken the Prince, draping 
 him in a morose take-crap-from-no-one attitude, changing voice actors to provide the Prince with 
 an edgy Clint Eastwood snarl, and giving him such novel lines as, "You ****!" No, this is not Sands 
 of Time, this is the new Prince of Persia and the idea of a dark character, dark atmosphere, and 
 dark story are forced down your throat from start to finish. It's too much, too forced, and frankly, 
 not as appealing as the Prince of old. From a thematic perspective, it's a step backwards, even 
 though the gameplay remains excellent. 
  
  Warrior Within is more about slashing up your foes than out-thinking atforming puzzles. There is 
 still plenty of jumping, climbing, and running to do, but thanks to a brand-new combo system, this 
 Prince is better suited for splashing the walls with crimson than ever before.
  
  Warrior Within is a pretty lengthy little adventure. The ten levels span pirate ships and cursed 
 palaces, each brimming with unspeakable evil sent
  forth by the Empress of Time. The Prince must use all of his normal moves, such as leaping across 
 gaps or jumping up to ledges, to complete each level. For example, right away on the pirate ship, 
 you must hurl yourself across burning chasms, duck beneath fiery planks, and swing from chain to 
 chain in order to slip off the ship unscathed. In later palaces,
  you must duck beneath blades that erupt from walls, roll beneath spiked columns, and wall-run across 
 wide crevices. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blurrypixel
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 11, 2008 1:27 pm PT
Review:  What's to like:
  - Challenging puzzles 
  - Unique gameplay
  - Longer game than the original
  - Satisfying combat
  - Many moves available
  - Heavy-metal 
 music during fights
  - Alternate endings
  - Boss Fights
  - Good story
  - Good movie CGs
  - Good epilogue
  - Great graphics (environment)
  - Great animations
  
 
  What you may not like:
  - Tough game (tough bosses + lack of save points)
  - Charm of the original (Sands of Time) is gone
  - Transition from SOT is incomplete
  - Other 
 than the Prince, there is little character depth
  - Map recycling
  - Some minor gore
  - A few repetitive fights
  - No music when not in combat
  - Audio is usually out of sync (lip 
 or else)
  - Can't move or act for the first whole second after a movie / reload (frustrating)
  - Terrible 
 camera
  
  Note: I strongly advise you to read Gamespot's review if you haven't already.
  
  
  Story - Warrior Within a. k. a. the seriously ticked off Prince.
  
  If you have played 
 the first of this trilogy, Prince of Persia: Sands of Time, the introduction will make you wonder 
 what went wrong between the fairy ending of the first one and this one's introduction.
  
  The Prince has gone through some rough changes: an unexplained (and clich) tattoo, a scrappy look, 
 and an attitude.
  
  The story on its own is interesting and will keep you hooked till the end.
  
  
  Game - Bigger 
 puzzles, bigger fights
  
  Like its predecessor, you will have to make your way through the architectural puzzles and the 
 occasional pockets of enemies.
  
  The level design is just clever and the world is beautiful. The acrobatic moves are not repetitive 
 and you will enjoy finding the proper pathing each time.
  
  The music was a big debate in the reviews and I can confirm both sides to be right: the music is 
 not as good as in the original Sands of Time in terms of "fitting" but on the other hand, it is 
 very invigorating in combat.
  
  Something new also is the addition of the Dahaka. This (evil?) being will trigger some very cool 
 chases where you will need to find a way ahead before he catches you.
  
  
  Combat - Find a style that suits you
  
  The combat techniques found in the original are still 
 here and more moves have been added.
  
  Those moves are mostly dependent on if you are dual wielding or not. Dual wielding opens up stronger 
 moves while holding just a sword will grant you the throwing moves.
  
  One great thing about the combat in WW is that you can find a style that suits you -- you don't 
 need to know all the styles to be successful.
  
  The Boss fights are a neat addition but unfortunately, you will quickly learn to keep it simple.
 
  
  It's all because a Boss can actually take you down in 4-5 hits. In comparison, you probably need 
 to hit him like 30-50 times. So defense / evasion is usually more important than aggression.
  
  The same goes for the pockets of enemies you will encounter: go with the safe moves where the 
 enemies don't have a chance to hit you, or you will die quickly.
  
  As you can read from this, this game is a lot tougher than its predecessor. Not really because 
 the enemies are tougher, but mostly because Save points are so spread afar from one to another. 
 You can kill a boss and not find a save point until 2-3 more hurdles.
  
  This is true until the last few hours of the game where retries and save spots are easy to get.
 
  
  So, until that moment, expect to see the Game over screen quite often.
  
  There are 2 endings. The "good one" is near-impossible to get without a walkthrough. It requires 
 you to find all the life upgrades (9) . I would have preferred a player choice instead, but I guess 
 that was a cheap way for them to add replay value.
  
  
  Conclusion - Mixed feelings
  
  If you have played its predecessor, Sands of time, and liked it, you will not find this sequel 
 as fulfilling as the first one. It does, on the other hand, address the (minor) issues like its 
 level of difficulty and its length.
  
  If you didn't like the first one or didn't play it, you will like this game for certain. The intense 
 fights and overall good story will keep you hooked until the end.
  
  In comparison, I would say Sands of time was like an exquisite 5 service meal that lasted for an 
 hour while Warrior Within is like pizza and beer with a good football game.
  
  Both are really good, but totally different in their nature.
  
  It's a great game, 8.3/10
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: frag_1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 8, 2007 3:32 am PT
Review:  Prince Of Persia: Warrior Within was one awesome experience. I must say I haven't ever experienced 
 a game with as many action sequences as this one.. The game not only has great graphics but its 
 great gameplay and the compelling storyline gets the player totally involved in the game. This 
 game was one of the best RPG's that I've played. The graphics was great for its time and the gameplay 
 provided hours of enjoyment. From the slow motion action cuts to the deadly combination attacks.. 
 The game has all the close-combat action one needs to get their adrenaline pumping. The game was 
 really winding according to me and as I really dont like games that make you end up at the same 
 place multiple number of times, the time-ttravelling became seriously over-bearing for me.. The 
 various minions and blade-dancers were some of the most fun enemies to deal with, with the exception 
 of the golem ( which wasn't that tough either) . The combination of acrobatics and pure gameplay 
 made the game, one of its kind. The simple and even the tough combination attacks, once gotten 
 used to, wreak damage and you can easily slice your way through as many enemies there are.. The 
 cool abilities that the prince acquires as he goes on through levels such as Rewind and Slow Down 
 help out a lot in many levels. The Breath Of Fate, Wind Of Fate and Cyclone Wind Of Fate can only 
 go so far as to just kill a few weak minions but nonetheless are uselful in certain situations 
 when the Prince gets ambushed. The Prince's health increases via water upgrades all around the 
 Island Of Time but in some cases without a guide it becomes really difficult to find the locations 
 of all the water upgrades and it results in us not having the Water Sword and ending up with the 
 alternate ending which is such a boring ending.. So that, I found was one of the factors that made 
 the game a drag.. Tha game requires us to travel back to the timeline as the Sand Wraith which 
 was the coolest part of the game by far as the replenishable sand tanks made the game a lot more 
 fun.. But the game becomes quite boring when it comes to the puzzles of fixing pipes together or 
 making a sort of formation in some cases.. That, in my personal opinion made the game a bit slow 
 and made it eventually lose its rhythm.. The Dahaka chases were interesting but in some cases were 
 just slightly irritating such as when he first thinks he defeats Kaileena and beats the timeline, 
 there are over 5 continous Dahaka chases which slowly become more and more dull.
  
  The thing I liked most about the game was its soundtrack which was awsome to say the least.. It 
 made the action sequences a lot more enthralling.. The title song which we get to hear at the end 
 during the credits was great..
  
  The thing I found funny is that the Prince drinks so much water to replenish his health but I never 
 found him have an urge to go to the toilet... He should watch out for a bad kidney problem.. I 
 think that might turn out ot be his killer rather than the timeline.. lol..
  
  The game has an immensely interesting storyline which continues from the story of the prequel, 
 The Sands Of Time. The story begins with the Prince wanting to prevent the Sands from being created. 
 So by time travelling through time he tries to find the Empress Of Time and prevent her from making 
 the Sands but as it turns out he helps the Empress (later, Kaileena) create the sands. The Prince 
 then runs to get the Sand Wraith's mask so that he can change the past and get a second chance. 
 The Prince in the end convinces Kaileena that they can change their fate by working together and 
 they defeat the Dahaka (keeper of the timeline) [this is in accordance to the primary ending] .
  
  So many elements in the game make it, a gamer's choice.. It can draw in anyone with its elusive 
 gameplay and promise of intense action.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: witex9494
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 16, 2007 2:47 pm PT
Review:  I must say that prince of persia 3 wasn't as good as warrior within because it was more like stealth 
 style game but the second prince of persia have deffinately proven himself to be the best prince 
 of persia game in the world
  
  Most people say that TTT is better because it has a lot of new stuff but graphics visuals looks 
 like sand of time prince.
  Fighting system..... well it's ok but not as good as in the last one.
  
  I don't say that TTT 
 is overrated but I'm just trying to say that Warrior Within is the best in series.
  
  
  
  :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: giro786
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 9, 2007 8:54 pm PT
Review:  i didn't play the first one ( Sands of Time ) ; i entered the Prince world starting this game , 
 and i can assure you that you will adore it .
  
  UBISOFT did a lot in this game building everything , starting from the graphics , , the storyline 
 , the characters and until the soundtrack
  
  the game's soundtrack is wonderful , it is one of the best scores written for a video game
  
 
  and last but not least ; lets not forget the sexy sound of Monica Bellucci in the game ; it kept 
 me going all the time the character of Kileena is so adorable 
::::::

::::::
UserName: filaria
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 2, 2007 5:17 am PT
Review:  Prince of Persia was the different game i hv played in years.... it has a very fresh plot with really 
 great graphics, this was my first game in the POP series... one thing that i hated the most while 
 playing through the game was the camera, it changes so often according to the landscape.... not only 
 that i had to adjust direction keys according to the camera which at times really puts u in danger.... this 
 happened to me in one of the Dahaka chases, a cutscene had started showing Dahaka coming after me 
 the next moment the cutscene was over however the camera was now focused on Dahaka not on the princr 
 which made me think that the cutscene was still going on...... but the game otherwise was very enjoyable 
 thanks to the innumerable combos in the Prince's repertoire.... performing all those various acrobatic 
 moves felt really enjoyable.. The story has nice twists and turns in it..... boss fights were well 
 put up... i loved the sand griffin the most.... initially i cudnt get most of the story but as i 
 progressed was able to follow the events.... this due to my lack of ne nfo bout POP: SoT.. not ne 
 more ofcourse... the game features nice time control features which come in handy in many a situation... this 
 adds to the fact the gameplay was absolutely original.... no hey this was in .... game type of situations.... It 
 does tend to get very frustrating at times especially in situations where there r some very challenging 
 traps which r later in the game n the last few Dahaka chases.... problem is u can b thrown back 
 far if u die in these situations... in case u run outta sand tanks..... the story however was toooo 
 long it wud have better if it were a tad bit shorter.... An excellent game that is a must have for 
 any game lover.... not recommended for people who go stark raving mad in certain frustrating situations.... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1_2_3lion
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 31, 2007 10:02 am PT
Review:  our hero prince of persia is here again with wariior skin now he is more powerfull than the last 
 time ,.... it it just rocks try to download the demo to try it if you do not have it or wana try 
 it first download the demo ton see it and belive me it is very cool with his new acrobtic atacking 
 killing moves no body can stand in his way no body , it is tooo cool and you gana love it soo much 
 as every body tried it it is cool with its nice graphics and not bad sounds also but its only proplem 
 is it is also some little tiny old but not bad game , it let on me a good feeling after i finshed 
 it and it is game from the never ending games anddd i like it and with its secrets it will be tooo 
 coool try it and promis me 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AhmedYehia86
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 22, 2007 4:20 pm PT
Review:  the game is very fantastic with good graphic and sound the game play is acceptable but it will 
 be better with using gamebad its very intersiting and if you paly it you cannot stop playing its 
 the most powerful action game i was amazing with prince actions with make the playing interesting 
 and the ways which you use to kill enemy there are two many techniques two kill the enemy
  but iwas was sad because it was different from prince of persia sands of time as the dager is replaced 
 with the coin on the prince chest and the girl which help me in pop1 is disappear in pop2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gauravfox
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 19, 2007 7:51 am PT
Review:  Prince of Persia-Warrior Within, as the name suggests, is an instant classic of the Prince of Persia 
 series. The game brings back some of the prince's ill fated luck where he actually triggered the 
 sands of time (1st Episode) now ,the sand guardian is after him n wants a piece of him... but our 
 prince-dude is in no mood for compromise n has to get rid of the Dahaka. Lotta heads are gonna role 
 in this sequel. N if u like blood n mayhem... this is a game for u my friend..! the moves, acrobats 
 n combat are just too good to resist..! The learning curves are never ending..!!! (u have a hell 
 lot of moves here buddy..!) Game play is pretty good. The music..... Music.... is too good...! the 
 music matches the environment n the tension when you are Ass-Whipin..! but seriously, music is perfect 
 and the effects are as real as it can get in a fairy tale. the story line is pretty good n keeps 
 u goin... the graphics are amazing n out of this world (seriously..!) . Over all ,the game is perfect 
 n is a must have for everyone into gaming..! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _iMMuNiTy_
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 19, 2007 8:24 am PT
Review:  After the events in The Sands of Time, the Prince is being hunted by an extraordinary beast known 
 as The Guardian of The Timeline, also known as the Dahaka. The beast is said to be invincible - 
 a manifestation of Fate itself. The still unnamed Prince decides to play Terminator and travels 
 to the Island of Time to travel to the past and stop the Empress of Time from creating the Sands 
 of Time, which in turn will prevent the events that took place in the first game from happening, 
 therefore not ticking the Guardian of The Timeline off.
  
  The Dahaka is a muscular, large humanoid clad in black, with horns that form the symbol of infinity. 
 Its presence does not go unnoticed - it is surrounded by a dark mist that turns the colors of the 
 beast's surroundings bland and pallid. The good news is that the Guardian's hunt is not a passive 
 element of the plot. You will feel the adrenaline rush as you mash your buttons in a frenzy to 
 escape the unstoppable Dahaka. Occasionally, the Guardian will find you and try to catch you, and 
 it will be your task to lose him... temporarily. The frustrating aspect of these chase scenes is, 
 of course, the camera. Sometimes, the camera will become locked onto whats behind you, and youll 
 have no idea where youre going. While its cinematic and looks cool, its highly impractical.
 
  
  Aside from newly introduced chase scenes, the combat mechanics have also been upgraded, adding 
 a high level of variety to the Princes moves. While the new combat system is regrettably not free-style, 
 theres a wide array of combos you can pull off. Do not worry about remembering all of the combos 
  at any time in the game, you can pause and check the combo list. In addition, the Prince can 
 now pick up his fallen enemies weapons as a secondary blade  daggers, axes, maces and swords, 
 and there are different kinds for each category, and each differ in terms of durability (the weapons 
 you pick up eventually wear out) and strength. Finally, you can throw the secondary weapon at one 
 of your enemies.
  
  Another new addition is a newfound ability that the Prince discovers much later in the game, but 
 its hard to go into details without any spoilers. Long story short, the Prince becomes able to 
 manipulate time for nearly as much as he wants (the duration of all time powers remains the same, 
 though) . Wheres the catch, you ask? Your health constantly drops, stopping at a quarter of your 
 maximum health. And this is where those hidden life upgrades pay off...
  
  You can find nine secret pathways which lead to a contraption that extends your maximum health. 
 As opposed to the first game, finding the location of these life upgrades is only half of the trouble 
  you also have to get to the end of trap-filled corridors. If you manage to get all nine, youre 
 rewarded with the most powerful sword in the game (which is primary, and therefore does not wear 
 out) , a different final boss, and a different ending. My grief with this is that the so-called 
 alternate ending is actually canonical, and the one the next game, The Two Thrones, follows. 
 So if you want to see the real ending, you have to find extra content that is supposed to be optional.
 
  
  Other elements of the games mechanics remain virtually the same. They have received minor facelifts, 
 to provide a new challenge for the player while reusing the same content from the first game. Some 
 of the environments are now dynamic, and require precision and timing to pull off acrobatic maneuvers, 
 and the traps are placed at more strategic locations, providing a tougher challenge, as well. Some 
 destructible objects have been placed in your way during chase scenes to slow you down. Time manipulation 
 has been refined, too  you can now rewind only 8 seconds as opposed to 10 in the first game. Slowing 
 down time no longer affects the Prince as much as it did before, and the mega-freeze is replaced 
 with the Prince moving many times faster than his enemies, rendering them defenseless. Of course, 
 time portals have also been added. And, finally, boss and mini-boss fights have been put in.
  
  The graphics have been slightly updated. Facial animations look better than they did in Prince 
 of Persia: The Sands of Time and textures seem to be of higher resolution. But the biggest changes 
 have been made in the design department. As you may know by now, Warrior Within sports a much darker 
 theme. The Prince has been given a new voice, a much gloomier one, at that, and he will no longer 
 crack jokes or humorously complain to himself about the absurdity of his mission. Instead, he will 
 yell out battlecries and mock his enemies in battle, who usually end up being cut in half, either 
 horizontally or vertically, while spilling blood like pigs.
  
  Dark and sharp colors are dominant in Warrior Within  in the present, everything seems like a 
 graveyard, and in the past, red  the color of blood  is recurrent, contrasting musty yellow. 
 The Princes major enemies are no longer aged men, but glamorous women clad in revealing outfits 
 and with seductive voices  Monica Bellucci lends her voice to the Empress of Time. Lastly, Middle 
 Eastern music that seemed so fitting in the first game is alien to Warrior Within, where heavy 
 metal dominates. Personally, after each gaming session of Warrior Within has left me with the sensation 
 that my ears have been raped.
  
  Ubisoft introduces new and interesting gameplay elements in this sequel, and adds depth to those 
 that return from the first game. The storyline, despite Jordan Mechners (the father of Prince 
 of Persia) departure from the team, is still highly interesting and contains three twists, each 
 of them less expected than the other. On the other hand, the new direction the developers have 
 taken is the complete opposite of the first game, and Warrior Within feels as if it was a spin-off 
 rather than a sequel  no characters from the first game make a return, the story of the first 
 game is irrelevant, as the events are quickly summarized at the beginning of Warrior Within, and 
 the Prince is unrecognizably different. If you can see through its flaws  the camera, some bugs 
 and the soundtrack - Prince of Persia: Warrior Within offers an enjoyable (and longer) experience 
 and is a step up from its predecessor, but it fails as a sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oonge
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 26, 2007 10:58 am PT
Review:  Absolutely amazing. Having played sands of time, its a great improvement of it, in short, prince 
 got more mature n all grown up. The alternate ending is great but given the trouble of getting 
 all the life upgrades, finally getting to finish of the Dahaka, shouldnt have been that easy.
 
  All in all its a great game, a must have for anyone who ever played the original prince back 
 in the day. As a continuation of the sands of time storyline, also quite impressive. Not very many 
 game developers stick to their previous storylines. This however makes it a bit tricky for a newcomer 
 to the franchise, for example figuring out one can do a vertical run up a wall then jump to the 
 nearby pole can prove tricky for the newbe, whereas such operations were hinted out in the previous 
 sands of time. This shouldnt be a discourager, just makes the game all the more interesting.
 
  Among the greater challenges in the game has to be evading the relentless Dahaka and the empress. 
 The time line is really impressive going through some of the areas such as the gardens in both 
 the present and past timelines with the environment still recognizable gives it a great touch.
 
  A must have for anyone who has a sense of adventure in them, looking for a change from the many 
 shoot em ups 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Don_Shadio
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jun 1, 2007 7:44 pm PT
Review:  I played this game not because of its continuing story line (from its prequel Sands of Time) but 
 just for Kaileena, the hot empress of time our prince hits into =P. The Dhaka, the stupid giant 
 monster who has no life, the protector of the sands of time is after our prince and wants to make 
 him pay for meddling with time which leads our prince to yet another journey to set his affairs 
 right. The prince is older now, looks wiser and better with blade.
  
  The graphics are a bit better that sands of time, but no that noticeable. The environments, the 
 structures and gardens, interiors, wall and decorations are all mesmerizing. Unlike the prequel, 
 you dont run everywhere carrying a dagger in your hand along with your main weapon, this time 
 as there is no dagger, so you get a variety of secondary weapons that you can pick up and use while 
 moving forward, though every secondary weapon has a limited life after which it breaks. I really 
 like the dagger of time in the prequel, helped me to kill enemies very quickly, this time, you 
 have to do it the troublesome way. The in game soundtracks are really fun and make this game worth 
 playing, but the fact that you are chased so often by the stupid Dhaka, well, I started having 
 second thoughts about completing the game, lol.
  
  The game has two endings. The normal ending is pretty simple, you dont have to do anything extra, 
 but to get to the second ending, you need to get all the health upgrades, some of them are pretty 
 camouflaged, so I advise using a trainer coz I found playing the entire game second time verytch. 
 The storyline itself is interesting and you progress into the game, you get more and more involved, 
 and the time line is well defined, even though you keep on moving from present to past and back 
 occasionally. Unlike its prequel, this part is more action based as I didnt find any puzzle that 
 was troublesome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ascortjkk
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 29, 2007 11:47 pm PT
Review:  lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lollol lol lol lollol lol lol lollol lol lol lollol lol lol lollol 
 lol lol lollol lol lol lollol lol lol lollol lol lol lollol lol lol lollol lol lol lollol lol lol 
 lollol lol lol lollol lol lol lollol lol lol lollol lol lol lollol lol lol lollol lol lol lollol 
 lol lol lollol lol lol lollol lol lol lollol lol lol lollol lol lol lollol lol lol lollol lol lol 
 lollol lol lol lollol lol lol lollol lol lol lollol lol lol  
 lol lol lollol lol lol lollol lol lol lollol lol lol lollol lol lol lollol lol lol lollol lol lol 
 lollol lol lol lollol lol lol lollol lol lol lollol lol lol lollol lol lol lollol lol lol lollol 
 lol lol lollol lol lol lollol lol lol lollol lol lol lollol lol lol lollol lol lol lollol lol lol 
 lollol lol lol lollol lol lol lollol lol lol lollol lol lol lollol lol lol lollol lol lol lollol 
 lol lol lollol lol lol lollol lol lol lollol lol lol lollol lol lol lollol lol lol lollol lol lol 
 lollol lol lol lollol lol lol lollol lol lol lollol lol lol lollol lol lol lollol lol lol lollol 
 lol lol lollol lol lol lollol lol lol lollol lol lol lollol lol lol lollol lol lol lollol lol lol 
 lollol lol lol lollol lol lol lollol lol lol lollol lol lol lollol lol lol lollol lol lol lollol 
 lol lol lollol lol lol lollol lol lol lollol lol lol lollol lol lol lollol lol lol lollol lol lol 
 lollol lol lol lollol lol lol lollol lol lol lollol lol lol lollol lol lol lollol lol lol lollol 
 lol lol lollol lol lol lollol lol lol lollol lol lol lollol lol lol lollol lol lol lollol lol lol 
 lollol lol lol lollol lol lol lollol lol lol lollol lol lol lollol lol lol lollol lol lol lollol 
 lol lol lollol lol lol lollol lol lol lollol lol lol lollol lol lol lollol lol lol lollol lol lol 
 lollol lol lol lollol lol lol lollol lol lol lollol lol lol lollol lol lol lollol lol lol lollol 
 lol lol lollol lol lol lollol lol lol lollol lol lol lollol lol lol lollol lol lol lollol lol lol 
 lollol lol lol lollol lol lol lollol lol lol lollol lol lol lollol lol lol lollol lol lol lollol 
 lol lol lollol lol lol lollol lol lol lollol lol lol lollol lol lol lollol lol lol lollol lol lol 
 lollol lol lol lollol lol lol lollol lol lol lollol lol lol lollol lol lol lollol lol lol lollol 
 lol lol lollol lol lol lollol lol lol lollol lol lol lollol lol lol lollol lol lol lollol lol lol 
 lollol lol lol lollol lol lol lollol lol lol lollol lol lol lollol lol lol lollol lol lol lollol 
 lol lol lollol lol lol lollol lol lol lollol lol lol lollol lol lol lollol lol lol lollol lol lol 
 lollol lol lol lollol lol lol lollol lol lol lollol lol lol lollol lol lol lollol lol lol lollol 
 lol lol lollol lol lol lollol lol lol lollol lol lol lollol lol lol lollol lol lol lollol lol lol 
 lollol lol lol lollol lol lol lollol lol lol lollol lol lol lollol lol lol lollol lol lol lollol 
 lol lol lollol lol lol lollol lol lol lollol lol lol lollol lol lol lollol lol lol lollol lol lol 
 lollol lol lol lollol lol lol lollol lol lol lollol lol lol lollol lol lol lollol lol lol lollol 
 lol lol lollol lol lol lollol lol lol lollol lol lol lollol lol lol lollol lol lol lollol lol lol 
 lollol lol lol lollol lol lol lollol lol lol lollol lol lol lollol lol lol lollol lol lol lollol 
 lol lol lollol lol lol lollol lol lol lollol lol lol lollol lol lol lollol lol lol lollol lol lol 
 lollol lol lol lollol lol lol lol 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rkannan
Rating: 10
Date: May 25, 2007 11:09 am PT
Review:  well guys, ask me what is the best game I ve played, I ll tell POP: Warrior Within. To tell about 
 the game itself, the second in the series of POP trilogy, the game starts when the prince is wanted 
 by the DAHAKA, the guardian of timeline for releasing the sands of time, the story takes place 
 in the island of time, where the prince goes to reverse time such that he can prevent the sands 
 of time even to be created. guess what, the island of time is ruled by the empress of times, who 
 sees in time her death will be brought forth by the prince and the struggle between, Prince, Empress 
 and DAHAKA is the story. The gameplay is so dark, that it gets scary at certain places, which is 
 aided by the music. And the new Prince unlike the one from Sands of Time is very dark indeed. The 
 controls are kept simple and handy which makes it a pleasure for the game to be played with keyboard 
 and mouse, though a analog controller will do wonders for your gameplay. The gameplay the levels 
 and the puzzles are intriguing and keep you interested with the gameplay, there are more elements 
 for repeating the game. So if you want to play a game for soul quenching experience, go for POP: 
 Warrior Within. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aliendrone
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 13, 2007 11:38 pm PT
Review:  I think this game is not a great sequel to the fascinating story of sands of time , the prince 
 is too much like rambo or something , is not the same person how make the great tale of prince 
 of persia , for me , sands of time have superiority and i like a little more the two thrones because 
 for me two thrones is like a fight between SANDS OF TIME &amp; WARRIOR WITHIN xD , and the winner 
 is sands of time =) , and i like the end between the prince and farah ^^ but for me the masterpiece 
 is the sands of time , because i love the story , and well the warrior within is a good game but 
 not a good sequel for such great game like the sands of time , too commercial , bye 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sangbums2
Rating: 10
Date: May 10, 2007 4:52 pm PT
Review:  i got hooked to the prince of persia games after the Sands of Time came out. i finished it in three 
 days and this one a little less than a week.
  
  the best thing about this game is the new freestyle fighting aspect. you can choose certain moves 
 to initiate the attack and then that beginning move leads to a whole series of different combos. 
 not only does it look great when you do a double slice and a decapitating spin, its very fun to 
 do!
  
  i had a little trouble finding all the life upgrades and i find the story a little lacking since 
 the previous installment had a much better story
  
  but other than that this game is a true masterpiece totally worth playing 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrLaskowski
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 19, 2007 11:11 am PT
Review:  I played Prince of Persia Sands of Time and was going to buy this but many of the reviews I read 
 were average. I read that this new darker selfish prince made this game less appealing and a bit 
 contrite. I also heard they made the combat run of the mill.
  
  I must say I disagree. The new darker prince is actually a bit of foreshadowing to the two thrones. 
 While this was intentional or not, it is the missing link between the first series and the third 
 series. It gives the character some attitude and I enjoy it.
  
  The combat is awesome. As you progress through the game you have the ability to do a bunch of different 
 things to help seeminly impossible situations. Eye of the storm is effective but other ones make 
 combat very intense.
  
  Graphics are very nicely done. The biggest problem is the camera controls which is a trademark 
 of the series: makes it tough at times, but everything is kind of intuitive, the guessing of which 
 way to jump isn't that hard to figure out.
  
  Love the game, plan on buying the third in series soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sudantha8527
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 16, 2007 7:41 am PT
Review:  Prince of Persia: Warrior Within, is an experience not to be missed by any action adventure lover, 
 and if your someone looking for a great story, great puzzles and wanting to get out of real life 
 for some time than this is for you. I had not played Sands of Time which is the first game in this 
 trilogy, my advice is if you have not played the first game then play it or like me do some research 
 on the story, cause the story is one of the main parts of the game.
  
  The game play consists of mainly well planned puzzles, which may be to open a certain door, to 
 get from point A to B or to activate a mechanism. The game is pretty difficult even on the lowest 
 difficulty, so be prepared to play some areas again, since there is no manual saves and only a 
 checkpoint system.
  
  The GOOD: Firstly the game play, very well planned out puzzles, which gives you a good challenge. 
 The graphics are still impressive, the environments and lighting effects take you in to the game. 
 Some say that the darker Prince is a negative to the game, but I actually enjoyed the rugged look 
 and the taunts of the Prince. There is plenty of gore in the game, so be ready for some splashes 
 of blood. While the Hard Rock music that plays during intense fights, soft music plays during intense 
 puzzle solving, the mix of music I though really got me energized and in to the game, also great 
 voice acting. Another feature that I loved were the acrobatic moves of the Prince, the animations 
 are amazing, special during the various combat sequences during the game. The story is well planned 
 and is well bound with the game, there are some twists thought to keep you at it.
  
  The BAD: unfortunately there are some bugs in the game, you can find list of the bugs and the fixes 
 anywhere on the net, and personally I was only affected by one bug which wasnt fatal. Sometimes 
 the camera angles get really annoying and frustrating. Many say that a game pad is the best to 
 play the game with, I played the game on a keyboard and I didnt face any difficulties. When playing 
 the game you will have to visit some areas many times over, some may find this boring. There is 
 replay value when it comes to playing on different difficulty levels, and there are some alternative 
 endings which may motivate you to play the game again. Overall the game was really addictive and 
 is totally worth it, there is about 15 hours of game play, and my advice on bugs is dont overwrite 
 your saves, you might never know when you might need a previous save, although the bugs are not 
 so fatal as to make you start the game from the beginning, as they say there is nothing a good 
 reboot cant fix. A very entertaining game cant wait to play The Two Thrones.
  
  There is replay value when it comes to playing on different difficulty levels, and there are some 
 alternative endings which may motivate you to play the game again. Overall the game was really 
 addictive and is totally worth it, there is about 15 hours of game play, and my advice on bugs 
 is dont overwrite your saves, you might never know when you might need a previous save, although 
 the bugs are not so fatal as to make you start the game from the beginning, as they say there is 
 nothing a good reboot cant fix. A very entertaining game cant wait to play The Two Thrones. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kevin091
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 3, 2007 8:23 am PT
Review:  In POP: SOT, the Prince released the Sands of Time and sealed it again and after that everything 
 rewinded back to the time when nothing's happened yet. Now, a monster called the Dahaka which is 
 basically a walking black hole wants to consume the prince because he opened the sands. Though 
 the old man says, You cannot change your fate. You will die. , the Prince tries to defy his destiny 
 in this part of the trilogy which sports a darker tone and an uber-annoying soundtrack of hard 
 metal rock! That is actually my only complaint since they improved on everything else. Sure, I 
 can live with the darker Prince image but the BGM is the one that truly makes me wanna break the 
 PC instead of being in a fighting mood for the times of combat.
  
  More combos mean more variety in battle. You can behead or split an enemy in half in a gory fashion 
 as well as do the acrobatic tricks the Prince is famously known for but the storybook atmosphere 
 in the first game just fares better.
  
  Now I conclude the review by saying that this installment is a bit too dark for a game with a theme 
 and story like this but it still makes for a satisfying experience which should not be missed anyway! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pinocchiojones
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 23, 2007 6:21 am PT
Review:  The prince of persia is the continuation of the sands of time. this time with more new combos and 
 tricks, very much like that of tomb raider. A very good action adventure. The game story line is 
 complex and interesting. In this game the prince starts of from a fight on the ship when the pirates 
 attacked his boat then to an island where he wishes to commence his plan of changing his fate after 
 been told from where he woke from his coma. You take from an ordinary outsider to a series of fighting, intrigues 
 boss battles to make like an insider. You move from the past to the present simultaneously and intense 
 boss battles with Golem, The Empress and resisting Dahaka who hates coming closer to water. The 
 problem is that there is need to improve on the camera and the story line Nice game to have. Just 
 can't wait to have the two throws where this time he wants his land and throne back. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alfe
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 22, 2007 5:27 pm PT
Review:  This game is the continuation of Sands of Time and now the prince will face the unstoppable beast 
 Dahaka in the island of time to change his fate from dying.
  
  The game focuses in the story and Prince acrobatic moves which let you excite to play the game 
 and also the enemies, graphics is quite beautiful. Now the Prince can also gain the recall, eye 
 of storm, etc.. which help the prince to turn back the time, to speed up moves to crush the enemies, 
 to slow the time, and to blast the enemies (just like the Sands of time but there are new) . There 
 are plenty of swords that the Prince can use like the spider sword, scorpion sword, lion sword 
 and the water sword, also you can have hockey stick and etc.. if you can find them, also there 
 are plenty of hard enemies that you can encounter and most of all the traps or puzzle traps.
  
  There are 2 alternate ending in this game, if you collect all life upgrades then you gain the 
 water sword that will help you to defeat the Dahaka and help Kaileena (this is the true ending) , 
 if you did not collect all upgrades then you will fight and defeat Kaileena, the Empress of time 
 (fake ending) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bureksasutlijom
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 1, 2007 1:43 pm PT
Review:  Since the first Prince of Persia in the early 90's, I have waited for a face lift of the classic, and 
 thanks to Ubisoft it finally came with The sands of time. Now, the sequel is much awaited of the 
 game which impressed with both gameplay and storyline. Warrior Within starts some time after The 
 Sands of Time ,and our favorite hero is being chased by a creature called The Dahaka because The 
 Prince turned back time (at the end of the first part of the game) and therefore changed the timeline. The 
 Prince must travel to Island of Time and stop the Empress of Time creating the sand itself and 
 freeing the Prince of the Dahaka. Yet before he can reach his destination, he is been atacked by 
 the army of mysterious female and ends up shipwrecked... Not to ruin all the fun of the story line, I 
 will stop the spoiler here. Warrior within doesn't impress only by the amazing (yet confusing) storyline, but 
 also by an very interesting fighting method with a lot of combinations which is explained (yet 
 not shown) with a movie in the Extras. You can use either one or two weapons or use the environment 
 to eliminate the pesky (but also hard-to-beat) enemies. Also, The Prince still defines physics with 
 his jumps, drops and runs up walls to reach his goal. Also, the controls are easy to learn and make 
 it quite enjoyable to play. The only downer is some bugs who seem to appear to come just when you're 
 out of sandtanks and on a cliff or walking on the wall which can be a little nerve racking.
  Warrior within is a ton of fun, a good stress killer, but not bug-free and therefore needs just a 
 tiny upgrade to be a classic. If you like a lot of killing with style, jump and run, and a little 
 puzzle, this is the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dope999
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 15, 2007 5:16 am PT
Review:  The first game: The Sands of Time was definitely one of the best games in it's genre, and Ubisoft 
 Montreal has promised even more games to come. Fans of the previous game (like me) , wanted more 
 of the addicting gameplay from Sands of Time. Now the prince is back in Warrior Within, but he 
 comes back as a new prince. He's a lot more hardcore, arrogant and selfish than ever. But I think 
 critics doesn't really realize the reason why, he acts this way. It's a part of this sequels story:
 
  
  Once again you play as the Prince of Persia. Last time he defeated the evil Vizier and made sure 
 he did not grant the immortal power from the sands. But because the prince has disrupted the Timeline 
 and cheated death, an unstoppable beast called The Dahaka, chases him day and night to make sure 
 he meets his fate. The Prince therefore set sail to The Island of Time, to keep the Empress of 
 Time from ever creating the sands, so the Dahaka will have no quarrel with him. But his ship is 
 attacked and he floats to shore and from there he will battle throughout the island to stop the 
 Empress from creating the sands. //So the reason why the prince has changed, is because he's grown 
 desperate since the Dahaka is chasing him. He's having a hard time being noble and so forth, when 
 his death is lurking wherever he goes.//
  
  Since the prince has changed his style, the gameplay has also changed style. Warrior Within has 
 a more dark tone  you can already feel, see and hear it, when you install the game. The actual 
 gameplay is also more aggressive and raw than ever before. Some players may like this and some 
 don't. Love it or hate it.
  One of the most improved things in the game, is the new combat system. The player can now fight 
 and kill enemies with over 30 different weapons as a secondary left-hand weapon. When carrying 
 two weapons, you can perform much more powerful attacks, while with your primary weapon, you can 
 throw and vault enemies. When possessing a secondary weapon it will break when used too much or 
 you can throw it and try to behead or knock down enemies from a distance. In Warrior Within you 
 can also perform new attacks, such as column swings, wall run vaults and so much more. All of this 
 means that there will be a lot more combat in Warrior Within  which in my opinion is great and 
 varied, but a little repetitive in the end.
  
  Also a very gory detail: your enemies can now be decapitated, cut in half or even thrown with. 
 They also stay true to their normal forms, means there will be blood, when you kill them. This 
 is in my opinion a great new addition to the Prince of Persia games, but in was okay that it didn't 
 show up in the Sands of Time, because that game was just too fairy tale like, to have blood in 
 it. Otherwise, I think that Ubisoft uses the blood too much. In certain cutscenes your enemies 
 will bleed even if you kick them in the stomach. But all right, when there's blood, there has to 
 be a lot of blood right?
  Enemy AI is a bit different from the previous game. Last time your, if too far away, sand monsters 
 teleported near you or even behind you. This time your enemies will just strike or look scary and 
 threat you, if too far away. This time they will also attack you, if you're busy striking a enemy 
 lying on the ground. But still they don't attack at the same time, cause Ubisoft just have to give 
 you a chance to survive combat  although combat in WW is gory and satisfying.
  Also an exciting detail: There has been added some new boss fights, although some of them is very 
 repetitive, since some of them is just normal one on one combat. The graphics has changed a little 
 bit since The Sands of Time. The environments is still one of the best things in the game, the 
 great outdoors and indoors. It's beautiful when it's creepy and messy, and beautiful when surrounded 
 by overgrown gardens and towers. But shadow graphics, doesn't always look too good. When the prince 
 is climbing on ledges or other, sometimes you have to shadows, not parallel with each other.
  
  Character graphics has changed, but in a good way. Face expressions and movements runs smoothly 
 and the animations runs good, too. The whole game contains some great looking drawings and illustrations, 
 that can be unlocked throughout the game. These drawings are beautiful and has a dark tone, and 
 dark colours, but I like it in a way. The before mentioned dark tone, that the game has, can also 
 been heard by the sound and music. The game's soundtrack is hard bass-slapping and heavy metal, 
 which is very good in my opinion, since I like bands such as Godsmack with the Straight out of 
 line song, which is played when the credits are rolling or I Stand Alone when you are in the 
 middle of a Dahaka chase. The music also changes to heavy metal, when there's enemies around.
 
  The voice acting is a kind of mixed reaction. The voice acting is better than in The Sands of 
 Time, but still it feels unfinished and without a personality. Warrior Within offers a lengthy 
 campaign with unpredictable twists and turns. This can keep you busy for 16 to 18 hours or more 
 or less, depending if you're a good puzzle solver. So I can highly recommend that you buy Warrior 
 Within. It's gory, exciting, amazingly beautiful and so forth. Hope this review was helpful.
  
  Dope999 
::::::

::::::
UserName: viveckvivu
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 12, 2007 7:59 am PT
Review:  What can I say about this game? Its perfect! Its awesome. Its fantastic! Its great!  
 cant even describe the game....... The sequel is just as great as Sands Of Time. The story is great. 
 One of the best stories games and in POP series. The graphics, the gameplay, the sound, music everything 
 is prefect!
  
  The story: After the incident of the Sands Of Time , the Prince is chased by a monster called the 
 Dahaka. He destroys everything in its path. Its a time monster. So, to be free from this monster, 
 he tries to change his fate. the Prince goes to the past to prevent the sands of time from creating 
 and to kill the Empress Of Time. The combat: Now, The Prince can use two swords instead of only 
 one. The first is the main one. And the other is the secondary one. The main one keeps changing 
 sometimes. There are many types of swords, like The Lion Sword, The Water Sword etc. There are 
 axes, maces, and many other secondary weapons. The Prince can, as usual, do many acrobats. He can 
 climb walls, he can run in walls. He can do anything. The combat system is really upgraded and 
 advanced in Warrior Within. There are many types of sand creatures. There are many boss fights. 
 The boss fights are so intense.
  
  And there is the most suspense part of the game, (well, in my opinion) the Dahaka chase. Whenever 
 the Prince meets the monster, he really creeps me out. The Prince has to run from him .Escape before 
 the Dahaka kills him. The Prince should quickly run on walls, or do anything to avoid the Dahaka. 
 The music of the game is really great! the music when The Prince fights monsters, the music when 
 there is a chase. Its all really great. Its so intense too. It like the Dahaka is really chasing 
 us. There are many loactions. The game is long. Thats good. There are so many puzzles. Its fun 
 and challenging. Some puzzles can really turn our brain upside down. (Well, thats what I think) 
 But overall, the puzzles are really fun to solve. The graphics are so good, everything is detailed. 
 There are many life upgrades too in this game. If the players had collected all the life upgrades 
 and a sword, then they can have a different ending. Well, thats all I can say about this game. 
 The Prince Of Persia never lets any of us down. The Prince can change his fate if we win this game. 
 Its PERFECT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedneckGamer87
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 9, 2007 11:00 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: The prince gose off on adventure to a far away land and has the madallion with him that 
 ferra has given him. He ends up being attacked by another ship that is trying to stop him from 
 going to were he is going and then washes up on the shores of the island. Then the prince now has 
 to go and find the empour of time and get ride of her and at the same time the Dahaka which a huge 
 sand beast his chaseing after him trying to kill him. Well though out the game you are jumping 
 and crawling and all the good prince of persia stuff but now he has twice as much fighting skill 
 then he did in the first game. This form of fighting is called free form fighting where the prince 
 can do multiple ways to kill the enemy. Many of the game elemets are pretty much an improvement 
 from the first game where you have to find a switch somethere and pull it down and such. Anyways 
 in the middle of the game you will find this mask and the prince will put on this mask and turn 
 in to some sand moster like creatcher and your health will continue to go down unless you get more 
 sand which can be stressfull. Also there is there new save a and type system to the game where 
 you will have to find this portal and you will be able to revers time to the past or forward time 
 to the present. This can be a bit confuseing at times if you start playing the game and then stop 
 for a while and then come back to the game again you may forget where you were. The only thing 
 that I found a little odd is that i'm not used to playing an action adventure game on PC, I just 
 prefer the consel version.
  
  Graphics: The cut scenes look a whole lot better from the Sands of time game. looks more realistic. 
 There is lots more blood and gore in this game and you will see blood, heads, limbs flying when 
 hacked off and bodys being split in to two or being chopped down the middle. The graphics during 
 gameplay are not bad but I think they could of done some more improvement on the polishing aspect 
 of it.
  
  Sound: The soundtrack is completly diffrent now, it has changed from a middle eastern flavor to 
 a metal sound and two tracks are on the game from Godsmack . Though I did not quite like it and 
 I did not think it was nessary. Though it not turn on bad. I also thought that the voice acting 
 was not bad either, very clear.
  
  Value: This game dose have some replay value, you can play this game at easy, medium or hard and 
 after your done that there is this online part were you are put in to an arena and try to kill 
 as many enemys as possible in the least amout of time and in some levels kill and complete the 
 level. Then you can go online and compare your scores with other people. All in all this is a pretty 
 good game, though it dose have it's flaws and the soundtrack i though was a unnessesary this game 
 is till worth playing and continue the story of the prince of perisa. I give this game 8.5 out 
 of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: prince_elad_69
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 8, 2007 11:53 am PT
Review:  this game is a fantastic follow-up for the POP series!!! and i will say it alot in these review!! 
 because i have enjoyed from every second i have played in this amazing game!!! did i already said 
 that he is fantastic?? i did?! well i dont care!! because this game is superb!!
  
  GRAPHICS: exellent graphics for this amazing game and i hope it will just get better and better 
 like the did..
  
  SOUND: a-m-a-z-i-n-g sound for this game (wich is amazing to) the rock music in the action scenes 
 is just highlt addictive.. by the way the song is called I STAND ALONE by GODSMACK... for all of 
 you who like the soundtrack of these great game
  
  GAMEPLAY: gets a little bit repeddetive but you will see that it gets really good with the story 
 line... by the way.. the story in these game is one of the most amazing storys i have heard (or played) 
 and the combos you can do in these game.. and the wepons... and the ladys!!! O-M-G anyway these game 
 has an amazing gameplay and makes these not just amazind and highly addictive but fun and inteasting 
 too and keeps you (the player) really deep in the game and you will start pretanding you are the 
 prince trying to run away from the evil dahaka... or maybe its just me..
  
  anyway POPWW is the greatest game there is for the PC and is highlt recommended to all the adventure-action 
 fans to b-u-y this game!! because you wont regret!!
  
  BYE BYE 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Grottekvarnen
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 8, 2007 3:17 am PT
Review:  Prince of Persia Warrior within is a very good game that shouldn' t be missed . Especially those 
 who have played the first title ,have the opportunity, for another time, to enter Prince 's world 
 and help him with his quest. This game has some new things like new and improved combos , improved 
 graphics and sound , some very nice cutscenes , but it hasn' t the same spark in its history as 
 the first one . None or less, it is a great game and everyone should play it .Lets keep our fingers 
 crossed and hope that the next title will be better than this one and that it will bring back the 
 great glory of P. O. P. The sands of time . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: net_mugger
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 18, 2007 5:18 am PT
Review:  This game worths and has all my admiration. It's the hardest of the series but the most at all 
 is absolutely excelent. What I consider most at a game is the story. For example I can't play a 
 game with superb graphics if it's story is stupid. Well I can't give too many examples at this. 
 I mean that I don't play games wich are inspired from a movie such as LOTR... and about story this 
 game has the best story ever followed by my second favourite game that is Legacy of Kain all the 
 parts most of all defiance and soul reaver1. Anyway about pop I like the time rewind ability. This 
 is very usefull in combat. And other properties of the sands like slow time wich is esential at 
 the end of the game when you confrunt the Empress of Time. The combat is the best I know... u can 
 pick up different types of weapons and do a lot of moves with them. Well this serie of POP is about 
 you and Kayleena cheating time. You will see at the end of the serie that time is not such a fool:) There 
 is also a negative character here The Dahaka the gurdian of time... and man he kills you from one 
 hit. Everytime you must run of him.
  
  You will play with a dual character: one is in your time and the other is coming from the future.... it's 
 a really mess but you'll enjoy it. Oh man how much I like this game's story!!!! After I finished 
 SOT I said that another serie will surely appear but I forgot about POP... when WW apeared and after 
 I finished it I was crazy waiting for the new serie. But now I talk about WW and this is the greatest 
 of them all. And I don't say all POP but I say all games... and this game maked me love Ubisoft 
 company. And more other games launched by this company are worthy of superb rating. The graphic 
 of this game is worthy of high rating even in 2007 it is a PC game.... for a PS is only a good graphic 
 I say. But it has it's own special effects that are surprising and the monsters look and the Dahakka 
 is also good looking I like how he was made. Oh and Kayleena looks reallly good in WW.... cause 
 in T2T she's not so pretty anymore...
  
  I say that u can play this game over and over from time to time because there are this combat scenes 
 u will get to miss otherways.... And of course u can try a harder difficulty:) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamerErman2001
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 31, 2006 2:12 pm PT
Review:  Prince of Persia Warrior Within is rated M due to blood and gore, intense violence, sexual themes, 
 and curse words.
  Story: The Prince messed up Fate during the Sands of Time, by saving everyone from the sands. Now 
 he finds himself hunted by a nightmarish creature named the Dahaka. He then sets sail to stop the 
 Sands from being created. The story should explain itself, for it's logic is questionable. Also 
 this game takes a very savage mood compared to Sands of Time. If you are a wuss about dark video 
 games, you might not like it. 6/10 for a poor story, but a great theme (for some, at least.)
  Audio: The Prince has a new voice actor in this one. The voice acting is all OK, but it could be 
 better. The game has nice sound effects. If you like hard rock, you'll like the new music. If you 
 don't you might hate it. I loved the music. However, while platforming background music similiar 
 to The Sand of Time's will play sometimes. The biggest problem is sound cuts out sometimes. I have 
 had music and voice acting cut out. 6/10 due to sound bugs.
  Video: The game has decent enough graphics with a cool style. The graphics aren't impressive in 
 the technology way, but they are very hard to run compared to most games. The style is absolutely 
 BEAUTIFUL. It is like a mix of dark themes and the arabian themes from Sands of Time. 7/10 for 
 poor optimization.
  Gameplay: The gameplay is what I consider the meat of the game. This game has great and clever 
 platforming. The Prince can run across walls, jump like crazy, and roll under traps. The game has 
 the same kind of platforming as Sands of Time, which is hardly a bad thing. Now the prince can 
 also use ropes! Ropes are quite usefull and fun. The game's level design uses all these platforming 
 elements in genious ways, with a diffuculty made for people who played Sands of Time first. This 
 game's combat system is now a lot better. The prince now has a main sword, and has lost his dagger. 
 He uses a meddalion to control time like the Dagger of Time did. The combat now lets you grab your 
 opponents weapon, and use it to clobber them! This allows for many combos, but in practice all 
 the secondary weapons are similar. You can do many more thing to your opponents, including a few 
 fatalities. You can throw them over a ledge, slice their stomach, behead them, and all sorts of 
 mean things! 9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tomacres
Rating: 7.4
Date: Dec 22, 2006 8:27 am PT
Review:  Yes, as much as I hate to say it, Ubisoft have killed the Prince of Persia. The excellent core 
 gameplay is still there, but the bad plot, nasty voice acting, overly dark tone, awful music and 
 overal bad atmosphere makes this game a massive let down.
  
  Gameplay: Now, a big complaint about the first game was the shallow combat. Warrior Within does 
 fix this, however the combat becomes tedious and boring when coming up against foes that take a 
 while to cut down. The fantastic platforming from the first game is still here, but there isn't 
 as much of it. I realise I make this game sound awful, don't get me wrong the game still plays 
 wonderfully, but these flaws really do stand out.
  
  Graphics: While I don't particulary like the whole new darker look to the game, there's no denying 
 that the graphics of this game are very nice. The cutscenes are a step up form the first game, 
 the animations are still brilliant and the environments are still nice. Overall a good looking 
 game. But why do all the female characters look like they've been ripped out form a Playboy magazine?
 
  
  Sound: Oh. My. God. Ubisoft what have you done! A heavy metal rock soundtrack to accompany a game 
 like this?! Are you joking?! Trust me, the game's soundtrack is awful. I gave the first game a 
 10 for its great music and nice voice acting, this game is the opposite. Apart from Kaileena, there 
 are no good voice acting performances. The Prince sounds like some nasty thug, in fact, he could 
 probably fit into a GTA game. Seriously!
  
  Value: A much longer game than its predecessor but not worth a second play through.
  
  Overall 
 this game is a massive disappointment. The new darker tone and style really dont fit into this 
 series, even Jordan Mechner himself admitted it. I wish he had worked on this game the same as 
 he watched over it in the Sands of Time, then maybe this game would of been a hell of a lot more 
 enjoyable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EcnirP_PrincE
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 22, 2006 7:20 am PT
Review:  The next part of sands of time is great and has gone on to keep with the expectations of the gamers 
 worldwide . Its great and one who plays this can never ever designate as bad even in the wildest 
 of his dreams . This is the story of a person who is fighting against time to change his own fate 
 because it is pre-determined that he will die . He goes to the island of time and tries to kill 
 the empress of time before she can create the sands of time . He does kill the empress of time 
 before she creates the sands but still then the Dahaka the guardian of time chases him to kill 
 him . Then he again tries but this time he uses the mask and is successful in killing the ......... 
 Actually this game has 2 endings one in which the empress is killed and one in which the dahaka 
 is killed . To kill dahaka you need the water sword for which you need all the life upgrades . 
 If you do not get the life upgrades then you fightthe empress and kill her . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: perfection1000
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 1, 2006 4:50 pm PT
Review:  Warrior within is a sequel to one of 2003s best action adventure games and it turns out that this 
 game is just as impressive as the original. The Warrior Within continues the prince's story from 
 last year's game, so, because the prince has unleashed the mystical Sands of Time, he finds himself 
 chased continuously by a time monster called the Dahaka. The prince plans on going back in the 
 time to kill the Empress of time to prevent the creation of the Sands entirely. In Warrior Within 
 you'll be exploring in the same areas in two different time periods. Special rooms scattered throughout 
 the fortress have portals that let you to shift back and forth between the past and the present, 
 and areas of the castle will change accordingly depending on the time period. Of course, the path 
 you take to explore each room also changes depending on the time period you're in. The time travel 
 mechanic also makes the game longer which will take you about 20-hours to get through and you can 
 also get an alternate ending by hunting down the secrets in the game. However, it also includes 
 back tracking that wasnt found in the Sands of Time. In the later parts of the game it isnt made 
 clear on where you are suppose to be going next. This can sometimes lead to a bit of frustration 
 as you fumble about, but, for the most part, it isn't a problem as long as you're paying attention 
 to the clues the game gives you.
  
  The biggest addition to the game is a deeper combat engine. The prince can now do dozen of different 
 weapon combos which also make the game gory and exciting to play. While holding one weapon you 
 can rebound off enemies and thrown them. Two weapons takes away your throw option but it also gives 
 more deadly weapon combos. As you progress through the game you gain different weapons which make 
 you more powerful but it also through tougher enemies at you to fight. The game is pretty challenging 
 which is really a good thing because if it was easy you would just rush through it. In the end 
 the combat in the game is ultimately satisfying and really doesn't get old.
  
  The visual are really great as well especially the environments that you will be fighting in. The 
 cinematic cut-scenes are also fantastic and the level is generally outstanding through out the 
 game which adds to the experience. However, sometime when you are watching the in game cut-scenes 
 the character model dont look that good when they get up close you. The enemy is design is also 
 fantastic in that youll be fighting off Golems, acrobatic ninjas, samurais, exploding creatures 
 etc. which makes things fresh and adds to the experience.
  
  The audio is also fantastic throughout. It also gives you a sense of rush when it kicks off in 
 the games many suspenseful areas. The voice is really fantastic in both the cinematic and the in 
 game cut-scenes. The rock music sometime really fits the action as you are navigating through the 
 levels and fighting the enemies. The sound effects in the environment are also really amazing because 
 the enemies through continuous taunts at you when you not engaged in battle. Warrior within provides 
 an amazing experience to fans of action games. It showcases some of the best level design in gaming 
 but it turns out that its just one of the many impressive things about this superb game. Those 
 who enjoy navigating through beautifully designed levels, complete with clever puzzles and traps, 
 will definitely get their fill of them here. Moreover, the combat has improved greatly which makes 
 the game more exciting and fun to play. Action adventure fans will definitely buy it no matter 
 what but for those of you that have just a remote interest in action should definitely play it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cristi_X
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 25, 2006 1:10 pm PT
Review:  After I played every Prince of Persia at least 2 times, i can say that I know what I'm talking 
 about. This is the best. The best graphic, the best game play, the most amazing soundtrack. It 
 simply rushes your adrenaline. The fighting is incomparable. Every move you make influences the 
 fight. The way enemies die it outstanding! I just love how you can slice and split your enemies. 
 The prince looks so serious and hardcore, like he is undisputed and not willing to die. It was 
 a pleasure playing warrior within several times, especially because you can have 2 final sequences. 
 It's great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrAbs
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 23, 2006 5:52 am PT
Review:  Prince of Persia: Warrior Within must be one of the longest games I played in a while. It feels 
 like you run around fighting enemies for hours on end.
  
  This installment of the POP series was in deed the better of the lot. Obviously the original and 
 3D did not come close, but it also goes above the Sands of Time in my list.
  
  The game is about the Prince that is now being chased by the Duhaka because he opened the sands 
 of time. And whoever should open the sands must die. Your quest is to go to where the sands were 
 created, go back in time and stop the sands from ever being created. But this sounds easier than 
 done. In this game your ability to control time comes in to play more than just reviving yourself 
 when you get killed or fall off a ledge. You need the powers to move through the stages, dive through 
 doors that close, slow down traps so you can get to the other side and slow down the hundreds of 
 enemies that you need to fight through all the stages. The free form fighting is also a brilliant 
 new feature added to the game. It makes fighting a joy and every fight you learn some new tricks. 
 You make use of walls, pillars and ledges to dispose of the villains that are out to get you. You 
 als have a multitude of different combo's that you can change to your liking.
  
  The feeling of the game is very Dark and Depressing, but it plays in well with the story of a person 
 that can't change his fait. You will die. That is the feeling.
  
  The music was fantastic. Heavy metal music suited the feeling of the game perfectly. As can be 
 expected you will face a few huge puzzles to get through the game. What would POP be without the 
 puzzles.
  
  Really good game, great fighting and fantastic settings. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: generalwilliam
Rating: 6.2
Date: Nov 19, 2006 9:31 am PT
Review:  Prince of Persia Warrior Within is a complete waste of time. From the graphics point of view, the 
 game doesnt really excel on them and they could be much better with these system requirements. 
 Character and enviroment's details could have much to be improved so they can look more realistic. 
 The only part graphics are reallly good are cinematics.
  
  Gameplay sucks! The game is all about killing weird things, killing combos, jumping and sutff like 
 that. It could make good use of an RPG and character evolution system so doing all these things 
 could have a reason and estimulated the player. There's also need for more interaction, the player 
 spends too much time alone. These things just make the game boring.
  
  Sound quality is pretty good thouhg, same bout the soundtrack. u dont need to have a super powerfu 
 sound card to enjoy it but if u do sound can get really impressive.
  
  It isn't an easy game, u might take lots of time trying to fugure out wt u have to do in order 
 to go to next phase of the game.
  
  All that just makes a person loses its interest. If you don't have it, don't buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jelle_schepens
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 8, 2006 10:37 am PT
Review:  sweet game, nice combo's, you need to master your keyboard and mousse, beacuse you have to make 
 fast combo's, run large colloms up and down run up walls and stuff nice set of weapons.
  graphics are ok, but could be better, but the age it's pretty good, don't worry it's not like 4 
 pixels/frame or something
  not a expensive game, pretty cheap for a sweet game like this.
  well, damn i ain't got 100 words so i got to make something up, euhm... euhm... euhm....
  euhm...
 
  damn i gonna check if i got 100 words....
  
  damn.... nice game, sweet story, no multy player, euhm.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fahad2mail
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 1, 2006 1:17 pm PT
Review:  It seems that ubisoft keep their promise. The POP Werrior Withiin allready hit the board. With 
 its unique gameplay and some revolutionary features, it keep track the pop fan. And i think they 
 got more than they expect. For your kind information, pop werrior within have some stolen concept 
 from popular fantasy game Soul Reaver (like darks prince concept, thi time line concept etc...) . 
 Its hard to believe right? But still pop shine with some of its own unique features. This is direct 
 cut through from 1st part. The middle part of the trilogy. Where we will se that the prince is 
 in dangerous. Ha made a big mistake to make his father happy. For the opening sands of time n use 
 of dagger to rewind time, he cheated death many times. But this should not be happend. For this 
 he have to send it (sands of time) back from where it comes. To the queen of time. This is not all, 
 for cheated death, he unleashed a beast called DAHAKA. This beast never take rest until take the 
 soul of our prince who made a mistake n change in timeline. This is called, You Cannot Change your 
 Fate, No Man Can . From this our prince's journey bigun. He have to go to the island of time and 
 fight back to time chamber to change his fate and his mistake. Tha gameplay is absolutely amazing 
 and surprizing. In this side, Ubisoft bring to us a new revolutionary concept of Free Form Fighting 
 System . A new addition in role playing fantasy action adventure game. Where its said that the 
 world is your weapon. Like you can use the wall in many ways to kill your opponent. Also here you 
 can use stealth to kill your enemy without making any noise and any hastle. Thats great! Now you 
 can use a secondary weapon with the primary weapon at the same time! And this is usefull to make 
 a combo . This is very much effective when u r surrounded by a group of enemy. Some type of special 
 power also added in this game. Like Revenge of Fate, Breath of Fate... etc... And offcourse tons 
 of new combo is added both for primary and secondary weapon. The enemy's ai is good. specially 
 lady enemy lol... they are much inteligent than u think! There is also some Boss in the game. The 
 way of beat them is also challenging. And offcourse all the time the beast Dahaka will try to catch 
 you. U have to avoid him at any cost. The graphysics is amazing. when u hit a combo, the time will 
 slow and the camre will move the accurate position to show your combo easilly. This is really great 
 to view! The sound is superbe. The level design is also good. Likes the developer did a hard job. 
 The last climax i awsome and exciting. There is two ending part of this game. I will not tell you. 
 U have to play lol....... I will give it 10 rating. What do you think? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PunkAss007
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 29, 2006 11:51 am PT
Review:  Well, let me put this straight.... I was kinda dissapointed by graphics cuz I was expecting that 
 it'll be better than in Sands of Time. I can't say that the graphics are bad, but i was hoping 
 for better... The thing that I was impressed by in Sands of time is the following effect: every 
 time you come out of water, you can see the drops of water falling onthe ground right of your clothes. 
 It's like you're in a dry-cleaning or somethin'... Anyway, I'm impressed by the gameplay. There 
 are some various combat styles, excelent monkey bussines (hanging, rope grabbing and stuf like 
 that) and nice choice of weapons! The game is not easy. It's a thinkin' one! I have made it to 
 a part where I can't find my way out, and I'm stuck there now! Another thing that I like is sound.... 
 It has good sound effects... The good thing is, all parts are conected! In warrior within, you're 
 continuing the story that you have finished in sands of time. Ubisoft has done a fantastic job 
 on this one, I can surtenly tell that! My score on this game would be, as you all can see, something 
 like 9,5. It has some slight things that make it impossible to be perfect. Check it out yourself, 
 you'll see what I mean! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: diablo666_eg
Rating: 9.9
Date: Oct 23, 2006 1:12 pm PT
Review:  POPSOT / POPWW / POPT2T
  
 
  GAME MANU 9/ 8 /10
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  SOUND 8 / 8 / 9
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  GRFX 8.5 / 10 / 9
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  VEDEOS 7 / 10 / 8
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  COMBOS 6 / 9 / 8
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  NM# WEAPONS 5 / 10 / 7
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  NM# OF MONSTRERS 10 / 9 / 7
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  STORY 10 / 9 / 6
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  KAYLINA LOOK - / 10 / 6
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  FARAH LOOK 10 / - / 6
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  PRINCE LOOK 8 / 10 / 9
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  DIFICALTY 9 / 10 / 6
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  TIME OF THE GAME 10 / 9 / 3
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  TRAPS DIFF 8 / 10 / 7
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  BOSS DIFF 5 / 7 / 10
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  OPEN END STORY X / V / X
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  MUSIC TRACKS 8 / 10 / 6
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  OVER ALL 121.5 / 139 / 117 2ND / 1ST / 3RD
  
  POPT2T IS PERFECT FOR THE NEW COMMERS
  BESIDES SECRET PLACES IN POPT2T ARE VERY KIDISH IF COMPARED WITH Prince Of Persia Warrior Within 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: charizard1605
Rating: 9
Date: May 23, 2008 9:36 am PT
Review:  When Ubisoft released Prince of Persia-Sands of Time, I must say I was pleasantly surprised. The 
 game exceeded all expectations, with graphics far beyond its time, and the story as addictive as 
 you would expect an LOTR movie to be. But the game lacked something, something was missing, something... 
 special.
  
  With this year's release, Ubi has addressed two of the main problems of Sands of Time: The repititive 
 gameplay, and the sheer shortness of the game. And guess what? They succeeded.
  
  Prince of Persia: Warrior Within continues the story of the Sands of Time, occuring seven years 
 later, when the Prince is relentlessly chased by the Guardian of the Timeline, which the Prince 
 upset in the last game. As soon as you begin the game, you instantly know that the game is darker, 
 more mature than last year's game. The M rating says it all, obviously, but the game feels a lot 
 more... heavier. With blood and gore that makes bile rise upto your throat, and scenes definitely 
 not suitable for anyone under sixteen, the game has taken on a much darker (and tougher) note.
 
  
  Also in question is the sudden change in the Prince's character. From the likeable youth he was 
 in Sands of Time, he is suddenly more harsh, ruthless, more arrogant. But anybody who's played 
 the Two Thrones knows why this is.
  
  If the game runs on your PC, prepare to be blown aside by the best graphics ever seen in a PC adventure 
 game. The game seamlessly seems to blur the line between its cutscenes and the actual gameplay 
 screens, none of which are any less than any scene from the Lord of the Rings.
  
  The sound effects of the game are simply mind blowing, so that all the time, you hear nothing but 
 the game's rocking yet eerie soundtrack.
  
  The story is nice, though it drags a little somewhere near the middle and ending of the game, but 
 its still enough to be turned into a full length feature movie.
  
  The gameplay is actually good, once you learn to master the controls. Then you can perform stunts 
 like Neo in the Matrix, everything from climbing walls to freezeing in midair to dodging things 
 thrown at you. Cool, huh?
  
  All in all, this game's a fabulous package, one that definitely needs to be added to your collection 
 if you are a hardcore gamer or a Zelda fan (what's the difference, anyway?) . Warrior Within's an 
 amazing game with a Lord of the Rings type story coupled with Matrix like stunts and it also happens 
 to be one of the best games... ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adnank77
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 2, 2006 12:54 pm PT
Review:  I liked the story plot, the graphics and everything else .. Only one BIG drawback here .. This 
 game is Rediculesly DARK !! No matter how much you increase the Gama, it is still dark .. which 
 really spoils your mode to play .. If you see my scores, the hit on graphics is because of this 
 .. otherwise, I like playing this game .. Now I'm playing the next in series, the two thrones .. 
 it's much brighter but so far I like warrior within more .. If you are a fan of this series, go 
 get it .. Otherwise, stick with Sands of Time and Two Throns .. they are more Playable than this 
 night mode game ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rockyking
Rating: 9.8
Date: Sep 26, 2006 1:08 pm PT
Review:  Prince Of Persia Warrior Within is one of the best games
  The game's graphic is good but not as Sand Of Time
  The story is very good it's convincing sequel 
 to Sand Of Time
  The controls is the best thing in game cuz if u learned it u can do amazing moves like spinning 
 on the head , cut the enemy into half and even cut his head
  The puzzles are very exiting and u can't be bored while u r trying to solve it
  One of the good 
 thing in this game is the enemies they varies from soldier to giant and the bosses they counts 
 six some of them fight u more than one
  the other thing is time shifting from past to future u can see who the tress grow and the some 
 of the building collapse so u can imagine that area changes alot from past to future The game has 
 the best soundtrack [which r taken from Godamack] and background music
  In this game Prince gains extra sand power like slow time , fast moves and eye of storm
  In this 
 game u have the freedom to go to any area u want this gives u some advantage [if u missed some 
 health upgrade u can come back and take it] but that sometimes make u lost throw the game
  In this game u can finish it with two ending one if u don't collect all the health upgrade the 
 other if u collect them all In a few words I think POP worth buying and play a second time at least 
 if u didn't play it yet u will lose alot 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AmarJ
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 24, 2006 5:00 am PT
Review:  Well, good prince or bad prince ,this game rocks! The music may be un-persiaish but still it suits 
 the game best. The combat's awesome 'n breathtaking. Combined with a fantastic storyline (the foul 
 prince ain't gonna spoil anything) and stunning graphics this game is one you must play. You may 
 also have a few heart stopping moments when the Dahaka trails you.
  The boss fights too are spine-chilling. Develop your own combat style. Through the game you will 
 learn many new moves. This game also contains free-roaming type of gaming i. e. you can roam throughout 
 the island of time looking for powerful miscellaneous secondary weapons or booby trapped chambers 
 which contain life upgrades. There's plenty of surprises and action in this game. I bet once you 
 play it you are gonna beg for more. You sure will become afan of this, and when you do , join the 
 Prince of Persia Club union! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andilosha
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 30, 2006 8:53 am PT
Review:  Ok, here's the whole thing. In the Sand's of time it's a good game, but too short and the cameras 
 are not as good as at Warrior Within. Here the story is better and the characters are great. The 
 loading is done in NO TIME. It's harder to play than at a PS2 but this game is great. When you 
 get used with the controls, and start acting really fast it gives you a great sensation. I almost 
 forgot, If you find all life upgrades, (finding them is really, really cool,) you get an alternative 
 ending whitch is great, I mean killing Dahaka is the moment you've dreamed the whole game. The 
 ambient, (sound and video) is cool, and I've enjoyed it at max. Have a nice game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Veer-zaara
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 21, 2008 12:35 am PT
Review:  In Prince of Persia Warrior Within, The Prince is hunted by an invincible beast known as the Dahaka 
 the psychical manifestation of Fate because he unleashed the Sands of Time in the first Prince 
 of persia game. To stop this beast The Prince must travel in the island of time and stop the Empress 
 of Time from ever creating the Sands. Like in the previous game the prince has the ability to rewind 
 time and slow down time plus new abilities such as sandstorm or whatever its called which does 
 powerful attack on your enemy you won't get this powers immediately you will need to find new time 
 portals which you allows you to travel back and forth in time. In Warrior Within The Prince is 
 more violent, ruthless, sinister and less charming than he was in the first game because of the 
 frustration of being hunted by the Dahaka. The game has a new free form fighting system which allows 
 you to form your own unique fighting style. You can strangle, slice, behead, throw weapons or your 
 enemies over ledges and much more. The graphics of the game are impressive and unlike the first 
 game which features classic Persian music this features hard rock or hard metal music. In the game 
 you meet a mysterious women named Kaileena she gives you information and more powerful swords as 
 you progress thought out the game. The puzzles are much more complicated and frustrating than the 
 first game, it took me a 2 weeks to finish the game. If you like a great action adventure game 
 or a fan of the Sands of time trilogy, Prince of Persia Warrior Within is the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aakash16
Rating: 9.8
Date: Aug 15, 2006 4:57 am PT
Review:  Superb game ! I think it is improved from th e previous game. The puzzles have been more tricky, 
 amusing, plus more entertaining. Somewhat the story has been changed but this begins a new type 
 of pace. But the prince has become more arogant . The language sometimes used by him has changed 
 from the first sequel which should not have been done. 
  The overall game is great except of a few things. The game must had required a great effort as 
 the present to past technique was I think requires a skills as the environments , etc things are 
 greatly made. I think gamespot should have more points to it . 
  Those who like action/adventure games, they must have Prince of Persia : Warrior Within . 
  Thank 
 You.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: abdulrahiem
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 7, 2006 4:13 pm PT
Review:  This is one of my all time favorite games.... it is a HUGE improvement over the first prince of 
 persia game! there are now multiple weapon for use... and dual weapon holding.... plus when to 
 ppl attack at the same time you enter a button tapping stuggle... there are also new combat moves 
 and you can use more of the enviroment in your combat!!! the main down falls to this game are the 
 game music... (heavy metal) which in my opinion doesnt reallt suit the game... but the second downfall 
 would have to be the transition of the prince... in the sands of time he was a kind man but in 
 the second (warrioir within) he turns in to a ruthless murderer.... but other than that this game 
 is one of those few perfect games out there. In the end i safe the EMPRESS and kill the Dahaka with 
 the WATERSWORD. If you want to kill the Dahaka find all the LIFE UPGRADES 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gugi_nayar
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 10, 2006 10:38 pm PT
Review:  Prince of Persia: Sands of Time despite its short length, was a great action-adventure game that 
 captured the imagination of gamers the world around. So Warrior Within obviously had a lot to live 
 up to. I think it would be safe to say, that with the exception of a few minor jitters, Warrior 
 Within is a fantastic successor and as good as Sands of Time, if not better.
  
  The game again follows the story of the Prince of Persia and picks up from where the previous game 
 left off. Having manipulated time to cheat his own death, the Prince is being incessantly pursued 
 by the ruthless time monster, the Dahaka. And it will stop at nothing to get to the Prince, devouring 
 everything that comes in the way. The Prince decides that the only way to escape this monster for 
 good was to go back in time and kill the Empress of Time, preventing the creation of the Sands 
 of Time altogether.
  
  The Princes path lands him on the Island of Time and from here onwards he must make his way through 
 the castle, killing all enemies in his path. The castle itself has many mysterious caves and passages 
 and it is up to you to lead the Prince through them. Be prepared for a variety of treacherous traps 
 along the way.
  
  As the game revolves around time-travel, you will find yourself frequently switching between the 
 past and the present. So therell be many instances throughout the game where youll be exploring 
 the same area in two different time-periods. This time travel is achieved through special rooms 
 spread throughout the castle, which allow you to switch between the past and the present. The appearance 
 of the castle and its surrounding will also change accordingly. So, if you passed a dilapidated 
 room in the present, you will find that in the past, the room is actually very well decorated. 
 Not only are there changes in the dcor of the room but also in passages around it, due to which 
 you cannot use the same routes to navigate through the rooms in both time-periods.
  
  A few levels into the game, you will gain the ability to reverse time for a few seconds, a concept 
 that was also used in the Sands of Time. This ability is quite handy as it allows you to make up 
 any mistimed jump or a mistake in combat, without actually having to restart the level. This ability 
 is limited to the number of sand slots you possess. If you run out of these sand slots, you can 
 always replenish your stock by killing enemies and bursting other items strewn about the castle. 
 There are other time related abilities as well, such as special spells to knock back multiple enemies 
 and the ability of speed, which will be used to get out of a tight fix. There are however learnt 
 about a bit later on in the game.
  
  Time-travel has actually elongated the game by a good amount of hours and it is nearly twice as 
 long as the predecessor. It does however tend to lag about halfway though. The path is not always 
 clear and you might have to stumble and wander your way around. The developers did provide a map 
 of the castle, but other than showing your present objective and the time-period, it is quite useless. 
 Theres hardly any detailing in the map, so if youre stuck, youll just have to continue wandering 
 and make out the path on your own. It also doesnt show any enemy locations.
  
  The enemies in Warrior Within will strike at you harder and in bigger numbers than before. But, 
 thankfully the combat system of the game has become bigger, badder and better. To fight the many 
 enemies, the Prince has a lot more combos and fighting techniques up his sleeve. Another brilliant 
 feature of the new combat system is the weapon sensitivity. Depending on whether youre holding 
 one weapon or two weapons in your hand, the Prince will perform his acrobatic moves and of course, 
 his slash attacks.
  
  Holding just one weapon in your hand, gives you the added ability of grabbing and throwing your 
 enemies, which comes in handy when youre fighting on ledges and beams. Instead of having to hack 
 at them continuously, you just throw them off the ledge and move on. The dual weapon system takes 
 away this ability but instead, gives you a much wider range of slash attacks. The effects of the 
 attacks depend on the weapon held in the Princes left hand. So while the sword in your left hand 
 will allow you to slash your enemies, the mace will help you knock them down. The thing to keep 
 in mind here is that the weapons in your left hand will degrade with time. An icon beside your 
 health indicator shows the weapon in your left hand and when it turns red, the weapon is about 
 to break away and it's time to start looking for a new weapon. You can also throw these weapons 
 straight at the enemies to impale them. 
  
  You can also vault off walls to increase the ferocity of your attack. Vaulting off enemies themselves 
 isnt a bad idea either. Both these techniques were previously used for Sands of Time as well, 
 but there is a new pole-vault technique developed for this game. It works nearly the same way as 
 a normal vault, but youre actually spinning around using the pole, rather than just jumping straight 
 at them.
  
  Theres a lot more blood and gore this time round. As the Prince slashes his enemies in half, the 
 camera moves in slow motion so you actually see the enemy getting torn apart, with blood flying 
 everywhere. This action is also repeated for the beheading scenes. This is primarily why the game 
 has an M rating. It might appear a bit disturbing at the beginning of the game, but as you will 
 encounter this very frequently, you will eventually get used to it.
  
  The combat has become more difficult than was the case in the previous edition. Not only do enemies 
 charge at you in bigger numbers but attack more ferociously as well. It is best to get used to 
 combos, as they will come in very handy later on in the game. Some good acrobatic moves, coupled 
 with the Princes slash attack can help you end battles quicker and with very little loss of health.
 
  
  The only problem with the higher combos is that theyre useless in boss fights. There are quite 
 a few bosses to get rid of before reaching your goal, and it is here that the combos would have 
 best served their purpose. Unfortunately, theyre rendered useless as the bosses will easily defend 
 themselves against most combos. It is only the smaller combos that can be used against them. The 
 best way of defeating them would be the dodge-and-hit method, draining the bosses health slowly 
 and slowly. It can get frustrating at times, but pays off in the end. You will also meet up with 
 the Dahaka several times during the game. Each time you must quickly run through several passages 
 and make your way through the many hazards in the way. 
  
  What strikes one as odd, during the initial stages of play, is the changed attitude of the Prince. 
 The Prince has gone a total attitude reversal and from the nobleman of the Sands of Time, appears 
 now as an arrogant guy yelling out taunts at his enemies. This sheds light on his desperate situation. 
 He just wants to save his life and doesnt care for anything else. To some, this new image appears 
 cool, whilst the others think of him now as less-likeable than before. 
  
  Fortunately, the Prince is as acrobatic as ever. The environmental puzzles were the mainstay of 
 Sands of Time and they are the mainstay for Warrior Within as well. To solve these puzzles the 
 Prince needs to use all the acrobatic moves he possesses. Running on walls, climbing, jumping, 
 swinging, vaulting, have all been preserved from the earlier game, with the addition of curtain-swinging. 
 These puzzles are quite exciting to beat.
  
  The game looks as good as its predecessor. For the most part, the many rooms of the castle look 
 quite real. The physics of the game are brilliant and mostly, the stunts dont appear artificial. 
 The game has a much darker tone than before. The cut-scenes also jitter on a few occasions. The 
 camera angles also go awry at times. Fortunately, this doesnt happen a lot and overall the game 
 looks great.
  
  The game sounds brilliant. The sound effects have been masterfully added and give you a great feel 
 of the game. A very different soundtrack has been given to Warrior Within. It is combination of 
 rock and heavy-metal, which can make the adrenaline rush during combats. There are some technical 
 faults in the music of the cut-scenes and at times the audio lags behind. The dialog isnt as good 
 as it could have been, but this is taken care of by the excellent audio effects.
  
  Prince of Persia: Warrior Within, despite its small flaws, is a great sequel to a brilliant action-adventure 
 game. Though it may not possess the charm which made its predecessor so famous, it still manages 
 to sufficiently hold your attention. The combat has been greatly improved from last time and the 
 game is a lot lengthier. Combined with its great level designs, traps, acrobatic moves, and great 
 sound effects, this is one game you would not want to miss.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: prinzofpersia
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 22, 2006 12:16 pm PT
Review:  I loved this game the first time I played It's Demo version, but I had the full version of the first 
 game"Sands of Time"& I finished it in about 3 weeks & a half.
  What I really liked about this game is that it has it's own style, own unique story,&unique deadly 
 combo moves &style!! Though I didn't play TTT, but this is my favourite game for now & I hope forever, and 
 I don't care what people says about it, because they didn't play it enough to describe it, and if 
 they say it has bad graphics, they are buffin', IT HAS THE COOLEST GRAPHICS I'VE EVER SEEN!! One thing 
 I don't like about this game, is the nudity seens, my only question is: WHY!!!???? All they thought 
 about Arabs is that they nude alot, why?? I'm arab too, and I when they make a pop 4, ESRB would choose 
 "M" for blood and gore, and animated violence. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vegito1669
Rating: 9.2
Date: Sep 11, 2006 4:10 pm PT
Review:  this is one of my all time favorite games.... it is a HUGE improvement over the first prince of 
 persia game! there are now multiple weapon for use... and dual weapon holding.... plus when to 
 ppl attack at the same time you enter a button tapping stuggle... there are also new combat moves 
 and you can use more of the enviroment in your combat!!! the main down falls to this game are the 
 game music... (heavy metal) which in my opinion doesnt reallt suit the game... but the second downfall 
 would have to be the transition of the prince... in the sands of time he was a kind man but in 
 the second (warrioir within) he turns in to a ruthless murderer.... but other than that this game 
 is one of those few perfect games out there!!! 
  the controls were hard to understand!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fahim_zak
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 15, 2006 11:26 pm PT
Review:  This is "Prince of Persia: Warrior Within", an EXCELLENT game!
  As the second game of the trilogy, it emphasises a great story in which you will demonstrate the 
 cool moves and fights of "The Prince of Persia". The story begins with the Prince going to the 
 "Island of Time" to try to stop "The Sands of Time" to be created. In this Island there will be 
 cool places, but also there will be dark and difficult environments that you will have to face. 
 This is a long game so you will have to dedicate time to play it. You will see extra features that 
 you will like, like The Rock music as theme of the game, also hot girls, and cool weapons.
  
  Game play: The game play is "Amazing", its fights and its great story tells it all. Score: 
 10/10
  
  Graphics: "Outstanding", the game has graphics that are very satisfactory and I think no one can 
 criticize the graphics of this game. Score: 10/10
  
  I im satisfied with Ubi-soft company of making such a good game.
  Thanks...
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: eclarkdog
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 15, 2006 8:02 pm PT
Review:  I thought I'd write a review on this game, having just finished it. I played POP: Sands and Time 
 and enjoyed it thoroughly. I was not disappointed by the sequel at all. The Prince of Persia story 
 continues as he continues to face issues related to his releasing the Sands of Time in the last 
 game. Only now, he must go back in time to prevent the Sands from ever being created and face the 
 Empress of Time (who's pretty hot, by the way) .
  
  As usual, I will address the positives of the game. The graphics are spectacular but darker than 
 the first game, which was very bright and sparkly. IMO, the number one aspect of the game is the 
 gameplay itself, especially the fighting. Now, I primarily play games like this for the story and 
 the adventure aspect. I like the environmental puzzles, traps, acrobatics and such like Tomb Raider 
 and other Action Adventures. However, the developers took the fighting very seriously in this game 
 and it rocks. The physics and combinations are superb. At first, I found it a bit difficult and 
 somewhat a turn off, because I thought it was hard. However, it becomes easier as the game progresses, 
 as you get used to it and gain more combos and sand attacks/tricks. It really is a fantastic fighting 
 system and I grew to appreciate it more and more as the game progressed. Conversely, the environment 
 and traps become increasingly difficult - a plus in my opinion - you'll encounter series of traps 
 that just seem impossible to traverse, but there's always a way. I found the game to be satisfyingly 
 long, although I've read reviews stating the opposite here. I'm not sure what people here consider 
 long, but this provided days of gameplay for me, which is generally what you get in action adventure 
 games. Lastly, there's a fairly cool plot and story twists that drives the gameplay and proves 
 satisfying in the end. If you play this game, note that there is an alternate ending to the game 
 if you collect all the life upgrades.
  
  To preface, there are very few and minor negative points on the game, so I wouldn't take them as 
 a reason not to play or enjoy the game. The Prince travels back and forth through time in order 
 to achieve the goals. While this is very cool, it does provide some repetitive sequences here and 
 there. The tone may turn some off and it did me for a short while, as a fan of SOT. However, I 
 grew accustom to it and found it intriguing in the end. I must worn that it's very different and 
 more mature than SOT. This game is dark in tone and atmosphere, with only a few short sequences 
 that remotely have the atmosphere of SOT. But hey, the developers did their thing and created a 
 game that stands on it's own, likely bringing new fans to the series. I don't recall encountering 
 any bugs - only a couple of lags in few spots. Regarding sound - and I'm really a bit neutral on 
 this - I can't quite reconcile the heavy metal soundtrack throughout the game. In one respect, 
 it suits the tone and gameplay, but the music doesn't give one a sense of time and place like in 
 SOT. The quality is good and the heavy metal certainly can pump you up during battle.
  
  Lastly, I look forward to "Two Thrones" of which I've seen previews. WW clearly points to TT from 
 what I know. As you play the game, note a couple of plot points/situations that foreshadow events 
 in TT. 
  
  Warrior Within is a great game and worthy of any fan of action adventures or even hack and slash 
 fighting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smartass21
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 4, 2006 4:38 pm PT
Review:  Prince of Persia 2 is a great action adventure game .
  In Prince of Persia 2 the prince is haunted by the Dahaka the guardian of the timeline , because 
 he unleashed the Sands of Time .To stop this beast the prince must travel in the past and stop 
 the Empress create the Sands .Like in the previous game the prince has the ability to rewind time.
 
  In Prince of Persia 2 the prince is more violent than in first because he was permanently haunted 
 by the beast the Dahaka .The game has a free form fighting system which makes the game more interesting 
 .You can strangle ,slice ,behead ,throw your enemies and much more.
  The graphics of the game are impressive and the music of game rocks .
  The puzzles are much more 
 complicated than the first game ,it took me a month to finish the game .
  If you want a great action adventure game ,Prince of Persia is the game for you. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: chhris
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 2, 2006 6:55 am PT
Review:  First off I just wanna state that I loved the gameplay in this, almost anyway you could think of 
 killing someone with swords you can do in this game. Graphics were really good, nothing really 
 amazing though, lots of blood as well. A lot of puzzles for you to do in this game, although I 
 would have hoped for just a bit less puzzles and more killing stuff XD. Had a good story line which 
 always keeps the game more interesting. Only 2 things in this game bugged me, one thing not so 
 much and the other thing a lot! The thing that didn't bug me so much were some of the cut scenes 
 just didn't look and act very smooth as could have been, but saying that there were also some amazing 
 ones as well. The other thing that really bugged me was the camera, it just is annoying when your 
 trying to jump for place to place or dodge blades and who knows what sort of other traps the camera 
 just sometimes doesn't want to go where you want it to go which can make some parts of the game 
 a bit frustrating. But over all a really good game and if you haven't played a Prince of Persia 
 game before I highly recommend you to buy one now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: titomag
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 26, 2006 11:20 pm PT
Review:  The Old Man said to the Prince, "Your fate has been written. You will die." 
  
  Enter the dark underworld of Prince of Persia: Warrior Within, the sword-slashing sequel to the 
 critically acclaimed Prince of Persia: The Sands of Time. Hunted by Dahaka, an immortal incarnation 
 of Fate seeking divine retribution, the Prince embarks upon a path of both carnage and mystery 
 to defy his preordained death. His journey leads to the infernal core of a cursed island stronghold 
 harboring mankind's greatest fears. Only through grim resolve, bitter defiance and the mastery 
 of deadly new combat arts can the Prince rise to a new level of warriorship -- and emerge from 
 this ultimate trial with his life.
  
  In story, its not the same as POP: Sands of Time, this game has a more darker theme to it, its 
 like if the prince has released the darker side of his former self, taunting every enemy in his 
 path. The game is also very gory... wich i like, you can decapitate enemies and slice them in half. 
 This indeed isnt like the last POP game. Even his voice has changed, from the proud and glorious 
 prince, to a morose take-crap-from-no-one attitude, He's not a hero this time out, he's just a guy 
 trying to save his own ass. This game deserves its M rating. Even though, most people dont like 
 this kind of prince, Warrior Within is quite an enjoyable gameplay experience. With many of last 
 year's complaints addressed, it would be tough for any Prince fan not to enjoy the sequel, just 
 don't expect to love it as much as the first. 
  
  Warrior Within takes place several years after the events of The Sands of Time. The Prince, having 
 originally released the Sands, is being hunted by the Dahaka, a guardian of the timeline. The Dahaka 
 is a foul, unstoppable beast that will pursue the Prince until he is dead. Desperate and weary 
 from the years of running, the Prince makes a final play, heading to the Island of Time. The hope 
 is that if the Prince can somehow go into the past, he can stop the Empress before she ever creates 
 the Sands of Time, meaning he would never have opened them and the Dahaka would have no cause for 
 its hunt. 
  
  The majority of your quest involves activating two towers, which open a door that's keeping the 
 Prince from his ultimate task. You can choose to go after the towers in any order and even visit 
 areas you already visited either past or present. There's a lot of backtracking in Warrior Within, 
 you will visit the same areas most of the time. Warrior Within has the same balance of platforming, 
 puzzles, and combat as Sands. However, the platforming elements have been approached a bit differently 
 this time out. 
  
  there are several times where you can't position the camera behind the Prince, forcing you to make 
 a blind jump, its really frustrating... especially with the keyboard. Ubisoft created a free-form 
 fighting system, which enables you to create your own combos and find your own favorite fighting 
 style. With the ability to wield two weapons, the Prince now has an assortment of combat options. 
 You can pick up a secondary weapon and use it in combination with your normal sword, or you can 
 toss the weapon at a foe (for a knockdown or delightful decapitation) . there are some good boss 
 fights mixed in throughout Warrior Within that refresh the combat. 
  
  The music are guitar-heavy melodies, mostly in combat. not much arabic music going on in this game 
 like in Sands of Time. And the problem is that the voices can become annoying, you will grow tired 
 of hearing the same taunts over and over again, not to mention the sync problems when seeing the 
 in game cutscenes.
  
  The graphics are awsome, it has alot of bloom and even though the enviroments are dark and dirty, 
 there is still plenty of eye candy... especially in the garden when in the past. The characters 
 and animation are well done, but could ahve looked better.
  
  In conclusion, its a kick ass game, with an attitude. People might not like the new theme and attitude 
 with the prince, but the gameplay is even better than POP : Sands of Time. 
  
  Graphics
  + The game is dark and gritty, but there are great visuals in the enviroments
  + Charcter animations 
 are very fluid
  +/- Even thought the characters look nice, they could have had more detail
  
  Sound: 
  
  +/- The soundtrack is ok, its all heavy rock music, something that not everyone 
 likes, but it does fit the theme of the game.
  +/-The voices are good, but get annoying from time to time when in combat.
  
  Game Play: 
 
  
  + The same unique platformer action seen in Sands of Time, even more challenging
  + Plenty of secrets
  + Awsome free form combat
  
  Replay Value: 
  
  + Its longer than 
 POP: Sands of Time
  + Has unlockable secrets and alternate ending
  -Once you beat it, your done.
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_trooper92
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 27, 2006 5:22 pm PT
Review:  When he opened the Hourglass at the start of Sands of Time, the Prince inadvertently set into motion 
 events, which would reach far beyond his adventure at the Sultan's palace. 
  
  He was supposed to die... but as we all know, not only did The Prince survive the opening of the 
 Hourglass, he managed to reseal the sands and prevent the disaster from ever occurring. He had 
 changed his fate. This was a terrific thing for the people of his kingdom, but a virtual death 
 sentence for the Prince. 
  
  Fate doesn't like to be pushed around. And when an individual, through some incredible act of bravery, 
 heroism, or luck, manages to avoid his or her fate, a Dahaka is spawned. 
  
  The Dahaka's job is simple: restore things to the way they should have been. And since The Prince 
 "should have" died in the Sultan's palace, it's the Dahaka's job to make that happen. The Dahaka 
 is really good at its job. So good, in fact, that in all of recorded history, there is no mention 
 of an individual managing to escape its grasp. 
  
  And so ever since The Prince defeated the Vizier and resealed the Sands of Time, he's had a new 
 enemy to deal with - one which he cannot seem to harm.
  
  Initially, The Prince sought training - with skilled warriors - and later, on the field of battle. 
 Driven by a desire to be rid of this creature he threw himself into the fray with little concern 
 for his own personal safety. If he was to have any chance of killing this thing, he'd have to become 
 a master swordsman. The enemies he fought and faced seemed insignificant compared to this beast. 
 And when he wasn't fighting, The Prince was avoiding The Dahaka - by travelling to the furthest 
 corners of the known world. It was only a matter of days - sometimes mere hours - before The Dahaka 
 would find its way to our hero's location, forcing him to move once more. 
  
  People ignorant of The Prince's true situation just assumed he'd gone mad. He raced about the world, 
 rarely sleeping, always fighting. But the truth of the matter is he's up against an apparently 
 invincible creature which is never more than a few steps behind him. And it's driving him him mad...
 
  
  You will see many updates that you didn't saw on THe first game, you will have much more moves 
 to use, more weapons, and more strenght. I think you would like it because it has great graphics 
 and a Solid storyline.
  
  Game play: The game play is "Amazing", its fights and its great story tells it all. Score: 10/10
 
  
  Graphics: "Outstanding", the game has graphics that are very satisfactory and I think no one can 
 criticize the graphics of this game. Score: 10/10
  
  I im satisfied with Ubi-soft company of making such a good game.
  Thanks...
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kmwamala
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 20, 2006 1:03 pm PT
Review:  This game is awesome, the combos are unique and also give the game an edge as if the prince's darker 
 look didn't already. Great game if you know and like the genre then this is the game for you. Buy, 
 play enjoy the game and then buy the 3rd. If you liked the prince before you'll like him now too, 
 with a new challenge to overcome and a big freak after him you'll enjoy it all. The game is set 
 not exactly after the Sands of Time because some time goes by and the prince is being chased by 
 the Dahaka so his older. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Big_Boss2703
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 15, 2006 4:13 am PT
Review:  For starters, this PoP game is nothing like any other game in the series. It's much darker and gruesome 
 and the violence takes many forms. First off, let's talk about the graphics. The engine that powers 
 PoP The Warrior Within's graphics is the same as in the previous games, the only change being that 
 it can render larger spaces. The sound is a let's say not so good part, the voice acting not being 
 so phenomenal and the fact that the music is composed of some uninspired rock tracks doesn't help 
 at all. The gameplay has suffered some notable changes, meaningly the Free form fighting system 
 which allows you to perform numerous spectacular and deadly combos. The sword upgrades are still 
 intact and the powers of the Sands of time have been upgraded, some new and very useful powers 
 making a benefic appearance but all these are nearly shadowed by the sometimes chaotic camera which 
 is incontrolable in battle situations and which sometimes goes postal and chooses the wrongest 
 angles possible. The game has alternate endings which will most likely please fans and the action 
 sequences are much more numerous this time around, the most memorable being the ones in which the 
 Dahaka (a creature sent to kill you which is believed to be invincible) chases you and tou have 
 no option but to run. In conclusion this game is very good but the many glitches and the theme change 
 might scare some off. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 6me1
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 7, 2006 5:31 pm PT
Review:  This was awsome the best parts are when you are taking on three or more enemies at a time. i only 
 played the demo for the PC and i gotta say even though it's wierd playing this kind of game with 
 a keyboard and mouse it's farly easy. i like the acrobatics and the combos that u can pull of in 
 order to kill things. The graphics are good and sounds are good and the gameplay is outstanding. 
 also the slowing down of time is pretty cool too. i played the first one but haven't played the 
 third so as far as i know this is the best of the first two prince games. I recommend this game 
 if you like to take your time to kill every single thing that moves taking on the huge monsters 
 is just plain fun. Since i only have the demo i haven't played it that much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pranavdhoot
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 20, 2006 1:30 am PT
Review:  this is just the right game to enjoy!! i ain't a pro gamer yet but i am very close to bieng one. 
 i recomend this game to all the gamers who want a good gameplay sound, video, action and combo attacks.. this 
 game is great and fulfills the needs.. i learnt the controls in 30 mins.. or so. this is seriously 
 a masterpiece. and once u play this game you won't play other games, till u have finished this one.. at 
 the higher levels you need cheats to 
  complete the game as it gets a little difficult to play even that crow master is a headache. once 
 u fight him or start fighting u need to have patience and this is the only trick to beat the game. PATIENCE. 
 dear gamers ... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Decomposed35
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 15, 2006 7:41 am PT
Review:  The gameline is amazing with a great story and all but all the grade the i have given is for the 
 fights in the game and the sound/video quality.
  
  The only problem in here is that you pass all the game in the same place....
  The island of time... always 
 the island of time, it can get really boring. It passes a fealing that you are not making any progress. 
 Even when you think you are leaving you are pulled back.
  
  But even with all this warrior within still is an amazing game and the many ways to kill your oponents 
 cover this small problem.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: NightSlayer2006
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 13, 2006 1:12 am PT
Review:  I will be straightforward with you... this is probably the best game in the series so far... havent 
 played two thrones thats why I say "so far". Ubisoft has once again come out with brilliant ideas 
 for this series with the storyline taking a new twist. There are a few downs to this game but they 
 shouldnt be much of a bother and are easily overshadowed by the ups. Below I wil list some things 
 I found good about the game as well as some stuff I wish they fixed...
  
  The Good stuff:
  
  - Awesome storyline which will keep you captivated.
  
  - Amazing storyline 
 twists which add flavour to the gameplay. You would be very confused maybe in the beginning of 
 the game... but towards the end you would be like.. that was so obvious, why didnt i think of that!
 
  
  - The new two-handed attack moves add a new dimension to this game with the player having access 
 to dozens of crazy moves. The surprising thing is that the player has to use certain types of moves 
 to defeat certain enemies. This goes to show that Ubisoft didnt just put these for show... the 
 moves actually mean something. BTW my fav. one is the NeckCracker.. if u use PC then move towards 
 enemy while blocking and when he's done hitting you, leave the right click to unblock and hold 
 (or tap) E and when the prince jumps on the other side of the enemy, fast hold E and start tapping 
 C... and enjoy!
  
  - All new traps for the prince to navigate through.
  
  - The few tricks we could do with the sands in PoPSoT was fun but Ubisoft added a few more crazy 
 Sand uses... just make sure you have your tank full for these though!
  
  - No more of these pesky birds and bats from PoPSoT bothering you while you move on ledges.
  
 
  - the Extra features which can be unlocked by finding secret treasure chests in the game.
  
 
  - The best concept so far I think is the Past/Present concept. This makes the game more fun and 
 challening to play.
  
  The Stuff I wish they had fixed:
  
  - Improper transition from the previous game into this one. The storyline does not properly show 
 the time period between the Prince going back home after leaving Farah and the starting of this 
 game.
  
  - Bad speech/subtitile/mouth movement combination. In some of the cutscenes we can see the mouth 
 of the character move then a few seconds later their voce follows and subtitiles get delayed and 
 sometimes are so late that the other character has started speaking.
  
  - Those two or three few swear words in the game are pointless and I dont know why they even put 
 it there. My lil bro loves this game and I wouldnt want him to hear those words from such a nice 
 game.
  
  - The choice of some rock music is probably the biggest downside. I only liked one of them and 
 the rest of them dont match with the "Prince of Persia" theme
  
  Well folks this is all I gotta say abt the game. Please dont read the story before playing the 
 game as this will take away the suspense and twist of the game. Enjoy!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gabi098
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 5, 2007 3:44 pm PT
Review:  The Good:
  
  The new free-form combat system is just amazing. While you might try to do some tricks over and 
 over again you might get different results but you will always enjoy the scene.
  
  The bad:
  
  The story is weaker that the previous POP: Sands of time.
  
  Gameplay:
  Endless 
 options to fight each encounter to defeat your enemies. If its a break-dance move where you hit 
 your enemies with your feet while spinning on your hands or killing your enemy with his own weapon 
 you will enjoy the scene.
  
  Countless tricks and ways do defeat your enemies allows this relatively repetitive game to never 
 ever get you bored. And just so you don't just endlessly go from a fighting scene to another in 
 between you face simple but fun puzzles and get to run through a ancient castle either in the past 
 or present (in game present not modern times) full with traps of all kinds from rotating blades 
 to falling rails you will never get bored.
  
  Graphics:
  Good graphics and highly well detailed textures will allow you to feel the game and grow close 
 to your character as you travel throughout The Island of Time. The graphics are excellent considering 
 this a 2004 game and the lighting in combination with the design will get you to just feel the 
 dark secrets of this lost island.
  
  Sound:
  The sound is just amazing The music fits perfectly the dark mood of the game and the voice acting 
 is amazingly well done.
  
  Value:
  This great game can now be found for very low prices in most cases below 20$ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: evilresident666
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 16, 2006 12:16 pm PT
Review:  I loved prince of persia: the sands of time, thats why i was disappointed that ubisoft had to take 
 this series to a darker, more mature level. I feel that the Prince of Persia series was fine the 
 way it was and it didnt need to be changed. I had fun with Warrior within and i must say that this 
 is a fine addition to the series. The graphics on warrior within are fantastic, and the killing 
 effects look sweet, i love slashing people and seeing blood come out. The games soundtrack though 
 is full of cheesy, dumb ass-metal music. This game is worth a purchase at its 20 dollar price point 
 and it should not be overlooked 
::::::

::::::
UserName: exta
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 9, 2006 8:01 am PT
Review:  This is a really great game i really enjoyed that game especially the combat they did a great job 
 developing the fights in this game, there are much more tricks and ways to kill the enemy not like 
 in the sands of time that the fights were little boring.
  
  But what i didn't like in the game is that you have to walk through the same places and do exactly 
 the same things over and over trough the game,
  for example you are making your way trough the mechanical tower three times, and that is really 
 boring and getting on the nerves.
  
  I really enjoyed the game nevertheless all the thing that i wrote here now. i`m starting to play 
 the two thrones and i really hope that this game will be even better than the warrior within.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bboyart
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 7, 2006 2:27 am PT
Review:  From the start it's notable that this is a great game. Gameplay is solid, graphics and sound-music 
 is great, but... Maybe becouse I am more used to PC games, and Prince is originali a console game, 
 some things just did not appeal to me. The chekpoint save game system which makes you replay scenes 
 over and over really get on my nerves. Actually that's why I quite the game after playing it for 
 some 14 hours. The replayability of a game should not be in going over and over some stuff you 
 already whent through. Usign a dual analog game pad controller in the game was ok but using keyboard 
 and mouse is a disaster. There are many Pc gamers who do not own game pads so controling character 
 using keyboard should have been simplified for these guys. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neohaker
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 5, 2006 9:33 pm PT
Review:  simply awesome. The graphics are cool. The game play is good and above all that the enjoyment u get 
 while playing is just ecstatic. U will be prince for the episode. The prince looks more like a 'prince' 
 in this rather than his appearance in sands of time. Multiple combo's makes to enjoy fighting and 
 finishing enemies in style. the aerial slashes are the best ones. Some long fighting episodes are 
 excellent. puzzles and finding ways are cool except that we can finish the puzzles through trial 
 and error.
  It a lack of incoherence in sound but the immersing story glues to finish the game. Whenever dahaka 
 comes into picture the our anxiety levels
  pumps up. Evading dahaka is cool but any feeling of grudge you can take your revenge on dahaka in 
 the alternating ending. More than all games are for enjoying and this gives simply that.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: krede89
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 2, 2006 4:31 am PT
Review:  this game i fantastic! i just love it! this game i fantastic! i just love it! this game i fantastic! 
 i just love it! this game i fantastic! i just love it! this game i fantastic! i just love it! this 
 game i fantastic! i just love it! this game i fantastic! i just love it! this game i fantastic! 
 i just love it! this game i fantastic! i just love it! this game i fantastic! i just love it! this 
 game i fantastic! i just love it! this game i fantastic! i just love it! this game i fantastic! 
 i just love it! this game i fantastic! i just love it! this game i fantastic! i just love it! this 
 game i fantastic! i just love it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wizoforb
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 28, 2006 6:40 pm PT
Review:  This is a good action game. I just bought it because I had played it on the GC awhile back, and 
 plus it was only $20. To be honest I think it looked better on the GC for some reason. My rig is 
 SLI. It looks, and feels like a console game. With it's fast paced play, which I have no problem 
 with, but just felt different playing on the PC. Of coarse the storyline is unique, and the visuals 
 are great, especially the butt shot in the beginning scene... lol. I'd recommend this to whoever 
 want to practice for T2T. Which that game blows this one out of the water. Way out! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DEATH775
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 15, 2006 11:58 pm PT
Review:  This is the best Prince of Persia games to date. If you played Prince of Persia The Two Thrones 
 then you'll probaly like this one better. Cause POP TTT makes me angry a lot of times. I don't 
 why but it always finds a way to get me frustrated. POP WW is absolutely great the graphic is fantastic. 
 My favorite one of all is the new combat system. It never makes me bored when fighting an enemy. 
 Yes I like the Prince when he's a little bit on the dark side. The story is awesome even thoe the 
 Prince only cares about saving himself but what the hell it works with me. POP SOT is no match 
 for POP WW. The combat system is just too lame and repetitive. So again I say this for me POP WW 
 is the best in series. I just love it. Sorry I couldn't help myself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drj2000_uk
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 15, 2006 4:15 pm PT
Review:  POP: Warrior Within, is one of the great adventure games that i will ever play , but in my opinion, 
 it was for me in a less satisfactory way than the first part.. POP: sands of time is without any 
 doubt the "GREATEST ADVENTURE GAME" that i will ever play. i mean i enjoyed each and every part 
 of it even its music. the story in the POP : Warrior Within is great, but i liked Sands of time 
 more. some people may think that my opinion is not correct. but the way the first part was introduced, 
 ( the way the story was told , and the way that the prince was telling his own story) .. that i 
 liked very much also the soundtrack of if was amazing, i even downloaded it from the Internet. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: themubashir
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 14, 2006 11:22 am PT
Review:  POP WW is a sequel to the sands of time game which redefined action genre. And does this game proves 
 to be a sequel worthy of praise?
  You bet it does.
  POP WW picks up exactly from where SOT left off.
  The Prince has reversed the time and has cheated 
 his own Death.
  But you know as a fact that know one can escape his own Fate.
  But this does not stop our Prince , he wouldnt give up so easily.
  so he begins his quest to 
 find the Empress of Time. This quest of the prince brings us the most enjoyable and hardcore action 
 game ever to hit the PC.
  
  GAMEPLAY - POP WW expands the freeform fighting system like never 
  before. U can perform some 
 of the most 
  extraordinary gravity defying moves and finish off u r 
  enemies in style. The slo-mo camera is also very good. The wall running , puzzles , fightings , slow 
 motion all r very beautifully depicted.
  
  SOUND - sound in POP WW is extremely good and a treat to the Ears. The game has excellent soundtracks 
 and the Voice acting is also too good.
  
  GRAPHICS - Compared to Sands of time ,POP WW has a dark look ,Not that i m complaining. The graphics 
 looks stunning even on a low end PC and looks much more real than SOT.
  
  STORY - The story is one of the best. Its different from the usual stuff.
  this is not a complete 
 game as well and there is another sequel (two thrones) after POP WW.
  
  All in all the POP WW is a much better improvement from the SOT and is a must play for all POP 
 fans.
  You wont regret it
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RebornJeremiah
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 6, 2006 6:23 pm PT
Review:  I played this game before the SoT and I can say that this game is really good. I was impressed 
 with the combat system especially. The Free Form Fighting style is really well implemented and 
 you will never be bored playing it cause there are always a new way to kill your enemies. The game 
 is a lil hard for a beginner even in an easy mode. There are a lot of blood and also gore involved 
 but you can turn this option off if you don't want to see those. There are some time travelling 
 involved but the gameplay itself is pretty linear. The game is good to be played with an analog 
 joypad but even with mouse and keyboard it is still really good.
  
  In the end if you like a game like Onimusha or DMC you might want to check this game out. It is 
 probably not as appealing as DMC or Onimusha or even God of War but it is a really good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: peeger
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 4, 2006 8:43 am PT
Review:  This is one of those games that you have to try and figure out how to get through a certain area. 
 Not just killing wise, but you also have to navigate up wall, around poles, swing, jump, roll, 
 ect. It is pretty fun, just if you stop playing, its tough to pick it all up again quickly. Also, 
 you cant save until you reach a certain spot, so if you hit a hard spot, you literally have to 
 do the same thing over and over again until you get it right. You can see the problem there, you 
 hit a hard patch, and you finally get through only to fall off a cliff, or what ever, and then 
 you have to do it again. I mean, sometimes you just need to get off the computer and you cant save. 
 There are some walk-through guides you can use, and if it was for one or two spots, I wouldnt mind 
 all that much, but it seems like you need them for almost every new area. Even that doesnt make 
 it easy to get through. Dont get me wrong, it is a really cool game and you can pull off some pretty 
 cool looking moves, and if they made a better save system it would be better. One other thing, 
 since it has such a complicated system of moves, the enemy comes at you a bit slow and very scripted. 
 Not terrible but it could be a little looser AI wise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: n0s2004
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 3, 2006 9:54 am PT
Review:  When SoT was released is blew the world away with gorgeous visuals, solid gameplay & excellent gameplay 
 coupled with an outstanding presentation & atmosphere. While WW lacks the atmosphere of SoT it improves 
 a great deal on combat & adds a few new gameplay elements.
  
  Graphically it's still good but some of the bloom effects have been reduced a great deal. Soundis 
 good enough but the new heavy rock music doesn't fit in all situations. Gameplay is the only thing 
 which remains as good as it was. The campaign is longer than before but involves a lot of back tracking.
 
  
  Combat has been increased a great deal with dual wielding 7 a lot of new moves which allows you 
 to use the environment like poles, wall rebound & wall run attacks. A few time powers have been added 
 7 combos have increased which depends on the buttons pressed at the right time.
  
  All in all this is an excellent sequel which only has a few glaring flaws & these shouldn't stop 
 you from enjoying this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sinterkaasie
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 27, 2006 4:47 am PT
Review:  GRAPHICS: If you played Prince of Persia: The Sands of Time, you'll notice that everything is a 
 lot more grungy, darker. Not that this is a bad thing, since the game focuses more on the combat 
 in this version of PoP. The game uses really great effects like lighting and the game really has 
 great graphics, everything looks pretty darn realistic. Also the time-effects look really great.
 
  
  SOUND: The main music is rock, whether you like it or not, of course this adds to the dark atmosphere 
 of the game. Sometimes there basicly is no music, at all, you just run and jump and all you hear 
 is the sound effects, I don't really like that, but it's a matter of opinion. The sound effects 
 really are great, the enemies really have voices that match them, and the Prince really sounds 
 dark.
  
  GAMEPLAY: The game really plays as it should, it's easy to do everything and you never really get 
 annoyed by the controls, it basicly has no flaws at all, only sometimes eg. when you want to do 
 a jump over the enemy you do something with the wall, because you stand too close to it. Also when 
 you get chased by the Dahaka, the camera really fails causing you to fall, thus you dying, the 
 chase-moments really get on your nerves after a while.
  
  REPLAY: I never felt the urge to replay this after finishing, okay, you can search for some artwork 
 in chests. But who really wants to play the entire game just for some artwork? Also, you can try 
 to get all the weapons from the enemy for some stats on the weapons, but this also doesn't really 
 motivate you to replay the entire game.
  
  OVERALL: If you aren't put down by the dark atmosphere and you can forgive the camera sometimes, 
 this is a great game to play and it really is pretty damn fun to play aswell. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sid_mail2001
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 25, 2006 5:48 am PT
Review:  It is certainly the best game in POP series. The storyline is just awesome. Just when you think 
 you have seen everything in the game it gets better. The storyline this time has somewhat a darker 
 tone in it. Some would say it's prequel Sands of Time was better but in some aspects this game 
 is way ahead of Sands of time.
  
  Gameplay : All those cool moves you can perform make you go head over heels. You can make so many 
 different kinds of moves. The 2 sword attack has brought new additional moves. 
  
  Graphics : Due to the dark storyline the graphics too have a dark tone in it. But still UBISOFT 
 have done a great work. The graphics are too good. Especially the cutscenes are so beautifully 
 made that you would love to see them again and again. 
  
  Music : Music is good. It certainly matches with the mood and location of the character in the 
 game.
  
  Difficulty : It's difficulty is just right. You get to solve puzzles and move through mazes but 
 at times they look you are repeating them so sometimes you may get bored of jumping and running 
 around the castle
  
  STORYLINE : As I said b4 that if something is good in the game then that ought to be it's storyline. 
 It's so good that at times the player wishes to be in the place of the prince. The parts of story 
 are so well woven that it can even beat the storyline of MAX PAYNE
  
  All in all it is a game which can make any gamer a POP fan. Hats off to Ubisoft for making this 
 masterpiece 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 00chaos8
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 18, 2006 5:21 pm PT
Review:  I say this game is awesome. What makes this game awesome, well the awesome music in the background 
 really moves you when your in a battle, more better combos, carry TWO weapons and that the prince's 
 attitude is more brutal. Not to mention, there are more traps. Wow, this game is more challenging 
 and a lot more fun then the first one. The thing I love is still the slow down time, reverse time 
 and not to mention when time slows down when you slice your enemy in half :0. O man that's awesome. 
 
  
  The story however is great. The story is when he tries to find redemption because of the Dahaka 
 going to seal his fate (which means kill him) because he open the sands of time and the prince was 
 suppose to die and the dahaka has to kill him. The prince tries to go back in time to find away 
 to prevent the sands from happening so the dahaka won't chase him. And believe me, you do play 
 some parts in the game when your running away from the dahaka... he is a beast. You can't kill him 
 and he can kill you in one shot.
  
  Overall, this game is fabulous, I highly recommend it to people that enjoyed the first one, action 
 adventure games or just love violent games for no reason. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: princeofgames90
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 13, 2006 1:21 pm PT
Review:  Its good game with a tight story i mean from a ship whear you run away to stop a monster "Dahaka" 
 from killing you and you move in your journey between places like babelyon gardens to dunjens to 
 dipointment when the prince discovers that he has no chance but to die and then he discovers i 
 wont tell you and break the story 
  
  Graphics : grapihics are very good from enviroment to charecters and its well renderes 
  
  
 sound : Every sound is in place and in time with music the makes you kind of creepy and waiting 
 for some thing that happens 
  
  Story : as i said its well tight story and every thing goes to each other 
  
  Charecters" from 
 freind to bad gaise that are like you tall to big gaint monsters very nice 
  
  its a cool RPG game and i can tell you if you like action with old style its the game for you 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctor_kaz
Rating: 7.2
Date: Feb 8, 2006 7:09 am PT
Review:  The Prince of Persia series is one whose incredible beauty is matched only by its mind-blowing 
 level of frustration. The game sports some amazing animations and moves in both its platforming 
 and fighting systems, but you have to endure lots of red faces and aggravation to enjoy it. For 
 every satisfying puzzle solving or victorious combat moment, there are five more fist pounding 
 on the table moments as you stare at a Game Over screen moments. Unpredictable and inflexible 
 controls, awful camera views, unforgiving challenges, heavy trial-and-error, and cheap bosses mar 
 what should have been a much more fun experience. 
  
  Thats not to say that being hard is bad. Its why the game is so hard that is problematic. First 
 off, theres the games awful controls. The Prince can perform all sorts of acrobatic feats like 
 running on walls and leaping over enemies. Thats great, but a lot of these feats are mapped to 
 the same buttons and are highly context sensitive. You use the same button to block as you use 
 to run along walls. That means that numerous times, you will be in combat near a ledge and accidentally 
 run along the wall over the ledge when you are trying to block. There is no way to avoid this, 
 and it happens over and over and over again. Early in the game, when you have few sand tanks to 
 rewind time with, this is a huge problem. This is just one of many examples in which the games 
 context-sensitive controls will aggravatingly kill you.
  
  Another major problem with this game is the camera. Its terrible. Theres no other way to describe 
 it. Most games on the PC let you freelook with the mouse. Even 3rd person games like Splinter Cell. 
 If youre not using a mouse, you should be able to use an analog stick to look around, like in 
 Psychonauts. Prince of Persia does not let you do this. The camera in 3rd person is highly rigid, 
 and the perspective changes frequently. You cant even move the Z-axis, unless you go into 1st 
 person mode. This makes it extremely hard to perceive depth to avoid traps. It also makes it very 
 hard to navigate some of the games levels, since sometimes where you need to go is above or below 
 you. Once, I was climbing a ladder, and I suddenly got knocked off and killed. Why? Because I climbed 
 right into a trap that I didnt see. Gee, thanks. For a game like this, theres no excuse for not 
 letting you have better control over the camera. Other games like Psychonauts have had it. 
  
  The game has other annoying control issues  too numerous to mention. But one example is the 
 way that you cannot put your weapons away or face away from an opponent during combat. Some big 
 battles have sand stored in nearby barrels. Its nearly impossible to smash those barrels during 
 combat, because you cant actually turn around to face them. Sometimes, you are going through an 
 area for the fifth time, and you want to run past enemies, but you cant, because you arent allowed 
 to put your weapons away. How annoying.
  
  Prince of Persia: Warrior Within is a game rife with trial and error. Unless you use a walkthrough 
 for most of it, you will find it incredibly frustrating at some points. Very often, you will have 
 to play through ten difficult sequences in a row, only to fail at trial-and-error with #11. You 
 can rewind time with sand tanks, but sometimes you dont have any left, or you dont have enough. 
 Some very hard sequences come immediately after boss battles that have drained all of your sand. 
 The worst parts are the occasional scenes where you are being chased by a monster and you have 
 to escape fast. This gives you no time whatsoever to examine your environments, which means that 
 you have to make split-second decisions. This means that you will get killed and have to reload 
 your game over and over and over and over and over again. None of this is made easier by the games 
 checkpoint save system, which has a few save points that are badly spaced.
  
  Another major problem with this game is that it requires tons of backtracking and traversing the 
 exact same environment as much as four times!! Not only does this get monotonous, but its also 
 confusing. Since the game isnt totally linear, its not always clear what direction you have to 
 go in. You can spend fifteen minutes going one way only to consult a walkthrough to find that you 
 were supposed to go another way. The game gives you a map and objectives, but they are so vague 
 that they are useless.
  
  All of these faults mar what should have been a much better game. Like its predecessor, Warrior 
 Within is wonderful when it actually works. The graphics on this game are fantastic. The environments 
 are awesome and highly varied. The animations for all of the princes acrobatic moves and punishing 
 combinations are breathtaking. The best levels give you a startling sense of size and height. No 
 platformer has ever provided this sense of agoraphobia. When youre hanging off of a tiny ledge 
 on the side of a building a hundred feet in the air, it truly adds to the sense of adventure. It 
 cant be said enough how wonderful the art design is for this series.
  
  Combat can be very hard at first, but its a lot of fun once you get used to it, and once you get 
 the hang of using your numerous special moves. The Prince has all sorts of techniques at his disposal. 
 Many of them look amazing and are equally satisfying to use. It takes a long time to learn what 
 moves are best for what situation. One weapon combat is significantly different from two-weapon 
 combat. With one weapon, you can do stuff like grab and throw enemies or grab them, leap over, 
 and decapitate them. With two weapons, you can deliver some deadly two-weapon, spectacular, spinning 
 two-weapon combos that slice through enemies like butter. You can also use your sand tanks to slow 
 time, or to dish out area of effect explosive attacks when you are surrounded by enemies.
  
  A lot has been said about this games more edgy prince and atmosphere. It does come off as 
 a bit silly. Especially when he cries out hurrrrrrr! during combat or some lame taunt. The music 
 isnt terrible, but the music from the first game was better. Combat and environmental sounds, 
 however, are still really good. The story is pretty much worthless, which is a disappointment, 
 because the story from the first game was so great. The twist that occurs about  of the way through 
 the game makes it more fun, but it also makes no sense whatsoever.
  
  This game takes quite a while to finish. As much as 20 hours, depending upon how often you get 
 sidetracked, and whether or not you search for all of the games hidden life upgrades. A lot of 
 that length is backtracking and replaying sequences after you get killed. Still, even with all 
 of the filler, the game has a lot of content for its price, and the 18 months since it came out 
 havent made it look outdated.
  
  Prince of Persia: Warrior Within ultimately gave me mixed feelings. Like Sands of Time, it's a 
 gorgeous game with lots of exciting moments that seems built to punish you and piss you off. Fun 
 combat and some awesome environments make it worth playing. Just have a walkthrough at your side 
 and be prepared for the temptation to break your controller. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lechrous
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 26, 2006 9:23 am PT
Review:  2nd in the series and better then ever. It has been improved in many ways. Most obvious is the 
 environment itself. I love the dark style which makes the game even more serious and fun to play. 
 
  
  Prince of Persia: Warrior Within is packed with the best sword fighting system to date. This game 
 gives you the option of double sword fighting as opposed to single sword in Sands of Time. The 
 new combat system makes it possible to perform nearly infinite moves several different combinates 
 of swords, axes, hammers and much more. The secondary weapon can be thrown away at your enemies 
 to kill them (and the best part is when they get beheaded) . Theres a new Matrix inspired pole-swinging 
 move 2 which can knock many baddys to the ground at once. 
  Prince's wall running capabilty has been improved you can jump towards a wall and rebound like 
 a catapult to eliminate the enemies. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Firozecool
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 21, 2006 7:10 am PT
Review:  Prince Of Persia? Perfect! Yeah!
  
  Man, I loved this game so much now that it now has a place in my personal life (Of course I wo'nt 
 tell you how!!) . Prince Of Persia is a game with fantastic graphics. The simple standing Prince 
 seems so lively, so natural! 
  
  It has a perfect soundtrack. It keeps your morale up. For ex. during a fight sequence it plays 
 a hip hop track but when you have to solve those exiting puzzles it plays a mourneful track. In 
 short the game music keeps pace with the gameplay.
  
  But my most favourite thing in this game is its fighting sequences. The Free Form Fighting System (as 
 they call it) is purely superb. This is because of its superb physics. All the fight moves are 
 very impressive. There almost 50 different classic fighting moves! 
  
  
  All in all POP: WW is a fantastic game. A bit hard but superb. If you are hesitating for buying 
 it have no doubt. Go out there and grab it! 
  
  GRAB IT AND LOVE IT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: December_Man
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 12, 2008 4:55 am PT
Review:  This review is going to be a short one.
  
  Warrior Within has open ended gameplay. This alone is one of the best sides of this game. I can't 
 understand people saying that so-called backtracking makes the game boring.
  Firstly, it's not backtracking. It's called mission based gameplay.
  Secondly, upon travelling 
 in time, we don't get to get past most of the areas twice through the game. Basically it's the 
 same room - but because of the flow of time, it's structure changed drastically, and so you need 
 to use other set of acrobatics to beat it.
  Thirdly, this develops a feeling of having a choice of where to go first, a feeling of freedom.
 
  Fourthly, the game is much longer due to this fact.
  
  In addition, the game is harder which also makes the game longer. In fact, it's the longest, hardest 
 and most satisfying of the series.
  
  I can understand that people can hate the darker tone of the game, but it alone cannot deny the 
 above facts.
  
  To sum up, if The Two Thrones were like Warrior Within (and I'm not saying about the atmosphere 
 and music) , THEY would be the best in series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shenlong17
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 15, 2006 5:36 pm PT
Review:  a litle of spanish
  Me parece que innovaron en la apariencia del principe mas malvado mas hombre no tan nio como lo 
 fue en prince of persia sands of time en cuanto a graficos que digamos uf cambio es impresionante 
 es casi la misma calidad
  lo que si me gusta es el sistema libre de pelea que permite luchar con hachas dagas y otra espada 
 el dual blade combat es lo que mas me impresiono cuando lo vi por primera vez y la musica de godsmack 
 me gusta es buena es un buen rock digno de la accion del prince of persia 2 
  
  en resumen me gusta es un buen juego 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sam_2006
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 13, 2006 3:35 pm PT
Review:  PoP: warrior within is a great game, full of adventure, action and puzzles. In fact, i was stunt 
 by the graphics when i played the game for the first time, and even amazed by the new moves that 
 were added to our brave prince. Actually, Ubi Soft tends always to provide us with good games, 
 and i knew this one would be a hit, as well. As i said before, the graphics are very superb and 
 the game play is fun, and much improved from the first game (sands of time) . Solid movements and 
 exciting combos have been added to this game, that make you feel just like a real, brave prince. 
 Furthermore, the sound is very good and the music fits the action pretty well. The story is also 
 great and adds much to the beauty of the game indeed. I actually have noticed no flaws in PoP warrior 
 within, and i loved it and enjoyed it so much. one more thing, the difficulty level is pretty tough 
 unlike the first game!! however, this makes the game more tempting and challenging !!
  so, if you guys like real adventure and pure action, this game should make a part of your collections 
 !!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: huss2215
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 12, 2006 12:42 am PT
Review:  All out fun but hard game with challenging puzzles and fun and agravating boss fights. Okay mainly 
 I gave this game a 6 for gameplay because all of the glitches from the sands glitch to sound glitchs. 
 Now half I played on ps2 and the other was on pc. Still the same game. Anyways it has the original 
 moves from Sands Of Time but more gorey headcutting off moves. The graphics are excellent well 
 detailed on my pc. The sound had minor glitch points but well enjoyed bacround music and scenery 
 sounds. This is worth getting because it's sso long and challenging especially the last boss is 
 freakin nearly impossible. Overall it's just a really great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vufor
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 12, 2006 12:19 am PT
Review:  This game just amazed me when I have started play it. From first view it became very hard to play 
 game, I spent a lot of time to learn controls.... and at last I had a good experience in this game. 
 
  Graphic of game just beatiful nad great, enemies really hard to kill and difirent type of enemies 
 are renewing by each level, which makes game are more playable nad intersting. 
  Traps just designed to very tough conditions and makes game a bit intensive. I recomend this game 
 to everyone, you play and say what you think about it. Looking forward to finish this game and 
 buy "PP: The Two Thrones".
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: faam
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jan 9, 2006 8:59 am PT
Review:  the game is ok the first levels, but then there's a point where always is the same (jump ill, jump 
 killjump ill, jump killjump ill, jump killjump ill, jump killjump ill, jump killjump ill, jump 
 killjump ill, jump killjump ill,) and neverrrrr stops, so when you're think that the game it's 
 about to end happens a new thing and a new thing and never ends...
  
  the graphics are good, the sound is good too and the battles are good too, well i think theg ame 
 is good but there's a point when you say: this game is a **** and you stop playing, i finished 
 and i can't see anymore a prince of persia because i hate that the game was too long...
  
  that's why i'm not gonna download PoP3.... my opinion is that it's a game that you play once and 
 that's all... and i hate when the prince transform in a monster (i don't remember the game i play 
 it along time ago) and the life runs out, that was maddening... well.. that's all i have to say-. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: glhal2005
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 7, 2006 6:17 am PT
Review:  STORY (INTRO)
  PRINCE OF PERSIA 2 TAKES PLACE 7 YRS AFTER THE INCIDENTS OF THE SANDS OF TIME. IN SANDS OF TIME 
 ,THE PRINCE OPENED THE SANDS OF TIME. WHOSOEVER SHALL OPEN THE SANDS MUST DIE. BUT NOT ONLY ONLY 
 DUE TO HIS HEROICS DID THE PRINCE CHANGED HIS FATE, HE WAS ABLE TO SEAL THE SANDS AND MADE EVERYTHING 
 LIKE IT WAS NEVER OPENED. BUT THIS CREATED A RIFT IN THE TIMELINE 
  AND THUS THE DHAKA WAS FORMED TO MAKE THINGS THE WAY THEY WERE SUPPOSED TO BE AND SINCE THE PRINCE 
 WAS SUPPOSED TO DIE ITS THE DAHAKA'S JOB TO KILL HIM. THIS IS WHERE PRINCE OF PERSIA 2: THE WARRIOR 
 WITHIN STARTS.
  STORY (WARRIOR WITHIN)
  THE PRINCE HAS MATURED CONSISERABLY FROM THE INCIDENTS OF THE SANDS OF TIME AND HE IS NOW A HARDENED 
 WARRIOR. FOR 7 YEARS, HE HAS BEEN HUNTED BY THE DAHAKA AND HE HAS BEEN RUNNING AWAY FROM HIM. THIS 
 IS WHAT HAS CAUSED HIM TO GROW MORE DARKER AND GRIMMER. AS HIS LAST HOPE OF GETTING HIMSELF RID 
 OF THE DAHAKA, HE TRAVELS TO THE ISLAND OF TIME WHERE THE SANDS OF TIME WERE CREATED. HE HOPES OF 
 USING THE TIME PORTALS OVER THERE TO TRAVEL IN THE PAST AND PREVENT THE SANDS FROM EVER BEING CREATED. BUT 
 ONLY BY MASTERING DEADLY NEW COMBAT ARTS CAN THE PRINCE AWAKEN THE WARRIOR WITHIN AND EMERGE WITH 
 HIS LIFE.
  GAMEPLAY
  THE PRINCE IS BACK THIS TIME WITH A WHOLE NEW PACK OF COMBAT MOVES KNOWN MORE SIMPLY AS THE FREE 
 FORM FIGHTING SYSTEM.
  THE STORY IS ALSO MUCH LONGER (I MEAN IT) . IT HAS THE SAME PUZZLES AND WALL RUNNING AND JUMPING AND 
 THE SAME GREAT PUZZLES THAT ANY PRINCE FAN WILL LOVE. BUT AL THESE MAKES THE GAME A MASTERPIECE 
 EXCEPT FOR ONE BIG FAULT THAT MARKS THE NEGATIVE POINTS OF WW. DARKNESS. ACTUALLY THE DARK THEME 
 IS QUITE GOOD AND IT CERTAINLY SUITS THE SITUATION THE PRINCE IS IN. BUT THE PROBLEM IS THAT IT 
 IS PRESENTED IN THE WRONG WAY. FOR EG:- THE PRINCE IS QUITE GRIM WHICH IS OK BUT HE DOESN'T NECESSARILY 
 ALWAYS NEED TO MENTION THE WORD B****.
  THEN YOU DONT REALLY FEEL SYMPATHY FOR THE PRINCE IN THE SITUATION BECUZ HE DOESN'T CARES WHAT 
 THE CONSEQENCES ARE AND IS READY TO KILL ANYONE STANDING IN HIS WAY. HE JUST WANTS TO SAVE HIMSELF 
 ANYWAY. HHE IS NOT LIKE A HERO BUT AN ANGRY MAN LOOKING TO SAVE HIS OWN ASS. THE PUZZLES ARE GOOD 
 BUT SOME PLACES ARE REPEATED SEVERAL TIMES IN THE GAME LIKE THE MECHAN ICAL TOWER. THE BOSSES CAN 
 BE TOUGH AT TIMES BUT THERE ARE DIFFERNT STRATEGIES TO BEAT EACH OF THEM. THE COMBAT IS EXCELLENT.
 
  SOUND-
  THE SOUND IS GREAT AS IT REALLY CATCHES THE FEEL OF THE SITUATION BUT THE PROBLEM IS THAT THIS 
 IS A PRINCE OF PERSIA GAME AND THIS MOVES AWAY FROM THE POP FEEL WHICH IS OTHERWISE GREAT SOUND.
 
  OVERALL
  PRINCE OF PERSIA 2: WARRIOR WITHIN IS A GREAT GAME ANDIS A MUST HAVE FOR A POP FAN BUT THE MISREPRESENTATION 
 OF THE DRAK THEME MAKES THIS GAME NOT AS GOOD AS THE SANDS OF TIME. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LittleSmolin
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 5, 2006 8:59 pm PT
Review:  I had a great time playing this game. The locations are well designed, and the puzzles are challenging 
 without being impossible or inscrutable. And above all, the combat really shines: the variety of 
 combination attacks, offhand weapons, and theatrical maneuvers made all the fighting a blast. The 
 Sands of Time are also in play once again, enabling you to send the game into slow-mo, while the 
 Prince leaps around killing stuff. Good fun.
  
  There were, however, a few drawbacks that detracted from the perfectness of this game. Certain 
 parts were frustratingly difficult, most notably a chase sequence that I had to do over about 30 
 times before getting it right; and the final fight I simply couldn't get through -- each attempt 
 took about 10 minutes, and after 2 hours I finally threw in the towel & downloaded someone else's 
 savegame. I kept a walkthrough handy for the rest of the game, and relied on it when things got 
 too frustrating, which wasn't too often.
  
  But once again, in this Prince of Persia the camera is your toughest foe. The cool cinematic angle 
 that the camera leaps to at each point in the game often made the simplest jumping or balancing 
 tasks near impossible. The camera angle can switch halfway through a perilous task, leaving the 
 Prince leaping in the completely wrong direction. Ouch.
  
  There was a lot of backtracking, and going over ground already covered before, which became a bit 
 tedious & confusing, and the plot seemed to get a bit muddled thereby.
  
  And while the lack of a save-anywhere feature was not too terribly obnoxious, it still would be 
 nice to pick up & leave off when I wanted to, rather than be enslaved to the game or lose a portion 
 of my progress.
  
  As for the soundtrack by Godsmack, it didn't seem quite right for this game. I really loved the 
 music: I'd never heard Godsmack before, and am now a big fan, but I still would have preferred 
 a more "Persian" flavor to the score.
  
  But all these criticisms didn't detract much from my overall enjoyment of the game. It was exciting, 
 atmospheric, and challenging, with some good plot twists and plenty of action. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SZeroC
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 31, 2005 12:42 am PT
Review:  Ive heard of schizophrenia, but this is ridiculous! In the princes previous outing, The Sands 
 Of Time, he was a footloose, carefree, and fun-loving youngster, blessed with a positive outlook 
 on life, and a quick wit.
  
  He was a character we could all relate to, cheerful, irrepressible and full of zest for life. Someone 
 whos company you really enjoyed, a shining light in a world of gloom, and undaunted by even the 
 ugliest of situations.
  
  Now the eponymous prince has grown bitter and cynical, a mere shadow of his former buoyant character. 
 His unsmiling visage views the world through a dour mask of apathy as he forges relentlessly through 
 an uncaring world.
  
  No-one loves him, and he loves no-one in return. He fights not for a good or noble cause, but purely 
 in his own interests, to the detriment of all who cross his path. Twisted and callous, he is the 
 very antithesis of his former self.
  
  The rather unsubtle shift in the princes personality affects the mood of the whole game. This 
 palpable miasma permeates everything, and is in my view, the only major downside of the game. There 
 is less sense of purpose in all the princes actions, as there is no grand underlying heroic mission, 
 just self-preservation.
  
  However, now weve had a chew on the sandy corner of this game sandwich, lets have a nibble of 
 the more delectable innards.
  
  The basic storyline is thus: The prince will die. It is foretold in the timeline. He created some 
 rift in time or something in the last game, and now a creature has spawned to heal that rift. This 
 monster is the Dahaka, and his sole raison d'tre is to the end of annihilating the prince.
  
  Understandably though, the poor fellow wishes not for such a demise, and determines to alter 
 his own fate. He attempts to do this by preventing the sands from being created, and thus ridding 
 himself of the decidedly deleterious and defecation-inducing Dahaka.
  
  The gameplay is less linear than SOT, giving you a little more control over when and where you 
 take the prince. There is still usually only one way to complete every objective, but now you have 
 a modicum of choice over which you complete first, and there are also optional little sub-quests 
 that earn the prince additional bonuses.
  
  Although this step towards non-linearity is mainly commendable, it does fall over its own feet 
 at times, as I somehow managed to access and get stuck an area that you are supposed to visit much 
 later in the game. I wondered why the enemies were so damn tough I eventually had to reload and 
 find the traditional route.
  
  The puzzles and action sequences are as ridiculous as before, and just as much fun. Its painfully 
 obvious that the levels are built directly around the princes capabilities, but you tend to forgive 
 that when confronted with the exotic and magnificent scenarios that make up the game.
  
  The prince (doesnt he have a name?) hasnt lost any agility with age, and at the touch of a button 
 will still pull off nimble leaps, rolls, dives, spins, wall-runs and Persian jigs. The levels push 
 his dexterity to the limit, and also demand a lot more than button bashing from yourself.
  
  But the mainstay of the game is of course the fighting. Although SOTs combat system was impressive, 
 WW takes combat to a whole new level. Hammering the attack keys will still elicit some hefty swipes 
 from the prince, but taking the time to learn the highly detailed and elegant controls will turn 
 fighting into an art form.
  
  Learning the right combos will unleash ludicrously cool moves that have the prince twirling, slashing 
 and lunging like a madman. There is also a lot more emphasis on using your environment to your 
 advantage. For instance, grab a tree trunk and perform a slicing spin to damage multiple enemies, 
 or rebound off a wall and skewer your foe with an outstretched blade.
  
  While your right hand is restricted to using your primary sword, your left hand is free to pick 
 up whatever weaponry you may find lying about, from axes and daggers to weird shuriken blades. 
 Or just leave your left hand empty and you can use it to grab enemies and throw them off cliffs 
 or at other baddies, or just use them as a human shield.
  
  Fighting is easy to execute, but difficult to master. However, if you do master its complexities, 
 every battle will transform into an exquisite choreography, a ballet of grace and fluidity. The 
 world is your play-toy, and using the princes lithe, freeform movement makes fighting something 
 truly memorable.
  
  The baddies you are tasked with dispatching vary in strength and fighting-style, so fighting several 
 types of enemy at once is often a challenging assignment, as you will have to use a blend of attack 
 methods. The later baddies get even tougherand bigger. I turned round once to find such a hulking 
 great monstrosity that I literally shrieked out loud.
  
  I was somewhat surprised at the game length. I was expecting something fairly similar to SOT, but 
 was pleasantly surprised to find a largely extended lifespan. Admittedly this is partially due 
 to location revisitation, but the game never really gets boring.
  
  So then, great gameplay, excellent graphics, acceptable sound (surely princes arent allowed to 
 slurp their drinks?) , fearsome foes, full head decapitations, claret aplenty, what could possibly 
 go wrong?
  
  The downsides of Warrior Within are as follows. The moody new character is less likeable, bugs 
 occur between past and present states, auto-lock on the combat system is both a lifesaver and possibly 
 the biggest source of frustration when attempting to get out of if you dont want to fight.
  
  Also, at one point I somehow turned into a different character. Some oddly-clad ghoul or suchlike, 
 who had a few different abilities to the prince, but the game wouldnt let me progress, so I had 
 to reload an earlier save. Strange indeed!
  
  But regardless of these minor deficiencies the prince still offers the ride of a lifetime for all 
 action/adventure aficionados. Not as pure as its prequel, but Warrior Within is still a gritty 
 masterpiece. The fighting sequences alone offer sufficient gratification to make this game worth 
 the fee.
  
  So what can we look forward to next? Prince Of Persia: Warrior Without? I dont care, so long as 
 he damn well cheers up a bit! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GautamIyer
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 30, 2005 1:51 am PT
Review:  I played this game only a few days after the original, "sands of time" and the differences were 
 quite noticable. The combat was a vast improvement over the original and the game was also far 
 more confusing, which lead to a much more indepth and longer gameplay. 
  
  Unlike Sands of time (and consequently, Two thrones) , Warrior within isn't as straight-forward 
 as the aforementioned. It's not like going from point A to point B, where you know exactly where 
 you are headed. It's like going from point A to point B to point D, into another dimension of poing 
 K and so on so forth. Most of the time it isn't a problem because there is always a cut-scene to 
 re-assure you that you are on the right path but it can get quite frustrating, especially when 
 you're already exhausted.
  
  I think it's a much bigger improvement in many ways just because simply the game is more exciting. 
 I actually look forward to the combat sequences rather than dreading them in the original. The 
 music takes on a different tone but is not all bad. 
  
  The atmosphere was too dark and broody for my liking and I just kept wishing for the day-light 
 that never came; however, as the game progressed, the atmosphere grew on me much like that of the 
 new prince with baditude himself. 
  
  Overall, the game was a lot more fun to play and it made for an extremely satisfying prelude for 
 two thrones which was equally entertaining. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: michael_delta
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 27, 2005 11:48 pm PT
Review:  So, you like POP: Sands of Time. What happens when you really mess up time itself causing a beast 
 (Guardian of the Timeline) from another dimention to chase you till you meet your fate?
  
  ENTER, PRINCE OF PERSIA!
  
  Yes, you've heard right. It seems that by changing the timeline 
 in the previous game, the Prince has disrupted a timeline which "orignally" is supposed to anyone 
 who opened the sands must die... which he did not! To correct it, the beast (known as the Dahaka) 
 will chase you till he has it with you till happiness end. 
  
  Exremely thrilling, hot babes, bad prince, violent enemies, horrible beast all adds to make this 
 game what it is! There is everything you wanted to have in the previous game. And the really cool 
 part is that you have this Free-Form Combat where you can fight with many many moves (with many 
 different weapons) to choose from. Many bonuses to unlock and (2 different endings) isn't that 
 WONDERFUL!
  
  Now the Prince takes on a journey to make sure that Dahaka doesn't make him meet his miserable 
 end. The only way is to make sure that the Sands would not be created, which means stopping the 
 Empress of Time to create it in the first place. 
  
  Well, you'll discover "time portals" in the game, to go back where the fortress was in great shape 
 in order to solve some puzzles and all. The game is pretty hard if you ask me, bosses are quite 
 challenging! Now in order not to spoil this game, why don't you get one and try it! A really great 
 sequel and I believe that it is under-rated! It is also the best in the POP Trilogy in my opinion!
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SlayerOZ
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 27, 2005 5:16 pm PT
Review:  This is what i want to say about this game.... Wow, nice, whoa, exiting, and EXCELLENT! Though I 
 think The Two Thrones is better... doesnt mean i like this also! This is challenging! (and also 
 quite exiting) The bosses are quite hard for me but still. Anyway.. well for all.... I think this 
 is EXCELLENT!! But not Perfect yet. It isnt because it is quite nasty... but the game is very good. 
 You get cool moves and nice graphics. I love these kind of Graphics as well as these kind of games. 
 You should definitely try this game. I hope you get addicted to it like me and some of my friends. 
 It is only what i think but i dont know about you. Last, I think you will like it, especially if 
 you like these kind of games. Well DECIDE! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: terryprior
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 16, 2005 3:56 pm PT
Review:  Prince of Persia :Worrior Within The result is a much darker Prince, who speaks in a gravelly voice, 
 travels through a rather grim labyrinth of saw blades and spiked floors, and is solely concerned 
 with saveing his own butt, no matter who he has to take down in order to do so. In the process, Ubisoft 
 Montreal re-invented the combat system, added a few new traps, lengthened the gamelpay experience, 
 and threw in a number of bosses. So with all of these improvements, how is it that Warrior Within 
 isn't as good as The Sands of Time?..... Warrior Within take place seveal years after the events 
 of The Sands of Time. The Prince, haveing originally released the Sands, is being hunted by the 
 Dahaka, guardian of the timeline. The Dahaka is a massive dark warrior that serves fate and will 
 pursue the Prince until he is dead. desperate and wary from the years of running, the Prince makes 
 a final play, heading to the island of time. The hope is that if the Prince can somehow go into 
 the past, he can stop the Empress be fore she ever creates the Sands of Time, meaning he would 
 never have opened them and the Dahaka would have no cause for its hunt. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eddyissa
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 11, 2005 7:42 pm PT
Review:  ahhhh prince of persia two.. warriror within. we waited so so so long to get this game and here 
 it is.. finally. seriously this game has a lot of ups and some major pitfalls.. so here it is. 
 first good thing. the length.. much better that SOT (sands of time) much longer which is a better 
 thing. nd the second which really is the show stealer.. the free form fighting system. man that 
 is just THE mst innovative fighting system ever put to gether. trust me on this because i havent 
 even seen fighting games like tekken and all which have such an innovative fighting system.. and 
 this definitely adds a huge amount of character to the game. if i was asked to describe it in one 
 sentence id day "it has raised the bar so high here is no bar". brilliant graphics as well though 
 thats only if your pc can handle it because its a bit demanding.. warning for those of you who 
 dont have a relaitvely good pc.. think twice before taking this game in. and well here is the bad.. 
 first up are the camera angles. hooolyy.. those were majorly annoying but with a bit of doing i 
 got used to it.. somewhat.. though it definitely is a very bad point of the game.. second.. the 
 prince is a bit of an ass.. i really didnt like his talk and all that stuff... the music was good 
 though since i enjoy metal.. :D. and yeah the princes voice acting.. gaaaawd that sucked so hard 
 it would have given the best blowjob in the world. sorry for the language but thats the only way 
 to put it. it was that bad... and here and there the animations arent that good. (in game anmations.. 
 but the other movies are really cool) and stuff like this does indeed make the game a lilttle less 
 likable than it should have been. all in all if you can forgive these slight yet glaring errors 
 in the game this is definitely a game worthy of keeping and payin over and over again 
::::::

::::::
UserName: guildsander
Rating: 9.9
Date: Dec 11, 2005 8:52 am PT
Review:  Prince of Persia Warrior Within is great because of the free-form-fighting system. This stile lets 
 you combine tricks to make one of your own. In the escape menu there is a combo list where you 
 can see all of the Princes tricks, it also shows the timepowers wich you can preform.
  
  At the beginning of the game you will have to fight Shadee who is the empresses servant, if you 
 wil fight her the first time its very hard. The weapons in the game are very good. The water sword 
 is the best weapon in the game. Its hard to find because you have to collect all the life upgrades 
 and the return to the hourgalss room, in the middle of the room there will be the water sword. 
 With that you will get the alternate ending. If you cant find the sword you will have to fight 
 and kill the empress. In the game you will be chased by the beast called the Dahaka. Some chases 
 are quite difficult. 
  
  The puzzles in the game are more advanced then in the sands of time. The traps are better and harder 
 too. AT one part of the game you will have to activate two towers on the island. In the towers 
 there are lots of monsters who are hard to kill. One monster is the golem who is ten times size 
 of you.
  
  In the middle of the game you will turn into the sands wraithe, when you are it you will lose life 
 all the time. That suck because you will have to do great battles with strong monsters.
  
  I strongly recommend you to play this game. HAVE FUN!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wolferyn
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 4, 2005 6:35 am PT
Review:  Fast, Easily understood, bright, atractive, perfect gameplay, and sexier characters~! 
  
  This is for now one of my favoured games in the year 2005 apart from the other games i've played. 
 Lovely characters that were were designed along with calm and catchy music, addictive characters 
 and gameplay, apart from that, a lovely storyline and beautiful background that gives you the feel 
 of the game and GREAT character movements! A must play game! ^___^
  
  The only small downfall to this are the controls. A little hard to control your character and can 
 give you a slight dizzyness if you pay attention to the game too much~ Haha. =P
  
  Just about the same as the second one i played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: plutoahuja
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 3, 2005 11:33 am PT
Review:  I was a newcomer to the POP games when i bought this one. I had heard great reviews for Sands of 
 Time, and my friends almost blackmailed me into buying this game so that they wouldnt have to buy 
 it themselves!!!! I did not regret my decision!!
  
  It took me a while to get used to the PC controls but once i knew them, the controls were fairly 
 simple. I bought Sands of Time after this game and saw that this sequel remained true to the spirit 
 of the original. The fighting system has been revamped and is frankly, superb. The 2 weapon fighting 
 system is terrific and the developers deserve a pat on the back for this amazing revolution in 
 the POP series. 
  
  For me, the most fun, and the most scary sequences were the Dahaka chases. These snapped me out 
 of my slumber (which was caused due to excessive backtracking, one of the games flaws) and kept 
 me on my toes. The boss fights are quite regular and are neither too hard nor too easy, a perfect 
 balance. 
  
  The game has some of the most awesome graphics in a game, and the video sequences are spectacular. 
 The Prince has truly matured in this game, and has become a total opposite to the soft spoken Prince 
 in Sands of Time. Here, dialogues like 'You should be honoured to die by my hands' show how much 
 he has changed. 
  
  The music is awesome. Many people have complained about the rock music in this game, but it is 
 actually good, though it gets repetitive towards the end (btw: WATCH OUT FOR THE ALTERNATE ENDING 
 AND TWISTS IN THIS GAME) !!!! 
  
  This game is not without its flaws. Backtracking gets irritating at times (something which was 
 not an issue with Sands) . There are glitches in the game in certain levels towards the end, which 
 makes it look like the developers rushed it through at the last moment. In one case, i actually 
 walked through a bookcase and was stuck in the wood for a frustrating 5 minutes....
  
  Despite these flaws, this game is AMAZING and is worth a buy. I JUST CANT WAIT for The Two Thrones 
 now!!!! 
  
  Happy gaming!!
  plutoahuja 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Charbo00
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 30, 2005 11:00 pm PT
Review:  When Prince of Persia: Sands of Time came out it was a great platform/adventure game for pc but 
 was kinda short and still had plenty of room for improvement. A year later Warrior Within comes 
 out and makes up for alot of SoT's shortcomings. WW has a much darker feel to it and has a way 
 better combat system in it. WW is also quite a bit longer and is just more fun to me. In SoT the 
 combat sytstem was pretty much just 1 move for each attack button and that was it, but in WW Ubisoft 
 of put in a combo system and alot of new moves to be used. You can also pick up weapons from dead 
 enemies and dual weild them for more attack possibilities. Overall Warrior Within is a great game 
 and a worthy sequel to an equally great predacessor. If you liked the first game I am sure you 
 will like this one, and if you are new to the series you should definatly give it a try as well. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: captain110
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 28, 2005 12:07 pm PT
Review:  Well the whole game has got better but there are some points which popSOT had done better. the 
 prince always repeat three or four sentence which in SOT was a lot better- i can remmember prince 
 talking about everything. and also the music which in SOT was more realastic and nearer to persian 
 music, but on the other hand, the free form fighting system really rocks, you r able to kill ur 
 enemys anyway u like, and the wide brand of weapons r available for you to do it better!
  to sum up, its a game which you really shouldnt miss, just try it once and u will get crazy for 
 the prince! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ingwe657
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 28, 2005 2:55 am PT
Review:  the Prince of Persia the warrior within is the game that introduces us to the new generation of 
 RPG games. it was a wonderfully structured game that really rocked and challenged RPG gamers a lot! but 
 now let's get to the technical things of the game
  
  first of all we must refer to the awesome graphics of this game. the prince looked almost real and 
 the 3D environment really transfered you in the game's environment. although in some places it was 
 a little difficult to discriminate the details all the characters and places were beautifully and 
 carefully designed. i will never forget the slow motion scenes when performing a combo showing the 
 slaughter of various enemies. however the strong point of the game is its wonderful gameplay as 
 well as the story that was fascinating as in the first part of the game. the free style fighting 
 system was something really innovative that enhanced gameplay a lot, gave gamers great freedom and 
 wasn't restricted at all .it was quite easy for all to learn the basic moves but it still needed 
 some time to learn more complicated combos. the story presents the tragic fate of the prince who 
 tries to escape Dahaka but it presents us in a bloodier, darker and more reckless person than the 
 one we knew in the sands of time. i really liked this transformation since it presents the prince 
 as a true and mighty warrior who faces courageously his destiny. the sound is quite good since the 
 music is fast when entering the combat mode and slower when wandering but contributes in creating 
 a fine atmosphere. also the voices of the characters are realistic. as for the value of the game 
 what i can say is that is a must for all RPG fans who shall really enjoy this game although they 
 have to play the first game The Sands of Time to have some relation with the story.
  
  conclusively The Prince of Persia the warrior within is an excellent game that i would recommend 
 to all gamers who want to enjoy a game that offers many innovations and feel true action through 
 their PC screen. both games of the series The Prince of Persia were great and i am looking forward 
 to the third part of the series 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TazmanianD
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 24, 2005 10:23 pm PT
Review:  I am not generally a fan of action games but I do play the good ones. A few years ago, I picked 
 up the Prince of Persia: Sands of Time (the previous game in the series) and was rather delighted 
 by it. Since I enjoyed that game, I decided to give Warrior Within a try.
  
  The foremost impression that I was left with this game was that it is very hard, perhaps the most 
 difficult game I have ever played. I began the game on the hard difficulty because I generally 
 think games these days are too easy but when I hit the first boss and discovered her to be next 
 to impossible, I set the game back to normal. Even at normal difficulty, the game is still very 
 hard. The typical bad guys and monsters provide quite a challenge, but the bosses are unbelievable 
 (there is somewhere around 7-8 in the game) . With the exception of one of them, I could not defeat 
 any of them in less than 15-20 attempts.
  
  The difficulty of the game is a blessing and provides for an uncommon challenge. That said, there 
 are times I did find myself annoyed by it but I did get used to it after a while. You are only 
 permitted to save your game at specific save points throughout the game. Sometimes, you'll find 
 that you wished the next point was a bit closer. There are a number of places where you repeatedly 
 attempt to fight your way through a sequence of difficult battles only to discover after your hard-earned 
 victory, that you have a whole set of traps and jumping puzzles to solve. If you fail, you have 
 to start everything all over again.
  
  The brightest point of this game, which is a hallmark of the entire POP series, is the incredible 
 acrobatics and fighting skill of your character. This is what impressed me most about SOT and WW 
 takes that to an even greater level. There are a large number of combos that you can activate by 
 pressing various keys (how fast can you press  In SOT, I 
 found myself become adept at a few key moves that I just used repeatedly throughout the game. In 
 WW, you must learn the huge numbers of combinations or be destroyed. The difficulty of the game 
 requires a great deal of player skill which is part of what makes this game so enjoyable. Taking 
 a quick swipe at an enemy, doing a flip over the head with a slash to the back, followed by a back-flip 
 to escape the enemy's attack is something to see. The addition of the ability to dual-wield weapons 
 also adds complexity to the maneuvers.
  
  The length of the game is also something of note. Action games tend to suffer from being too short. 
 This is definitely the longest action game, by far, that I've ever played. The difficulty of the 
 game contributes to this but also the shear size of the game. At one point in the game, you feel 
 that the game should just about be over and then discover you've got quite a ways to go. The game 
 also has a number of branches that you can freely move between including different areas of the 
 palace as well as the ability to switch between the present and the past. You will find yourself 
 occasionally wandering back and forth from various regions trying to figure out where to go to 
 next.
  
  The biggest thing I felt missing from WW that I enjoyed in SOT was the adventure and puzzle aspect 
 of the game. In SOT, you frequently find yourself trapped in a room where you have to hunt for 
 a way out or solve various sets of puzzles to open the way. WW has some puzzles and you have to 
 keep your eye open for the exit, but everything is pretty straightforward and not terribly interesting 
 in that respect.
  
  The prince has special abilities similar to those found in SOT (slow time, reverse time, super 
 attacks, etc.) . You gain more abilities over time and additional "Sand Tanks" that allow you to 
 perform more special actions. There's also the occasionally hidden room (which are fairly difficult 
 to find) that gives you additional strength.
  
  There's really not a whole lot to say about the graphics. They are quite good, but nothing really 
 extraordinary and I would say they seemed on par with SOT but not something near the level of a 
 Half-Life 2.
  
  The sound is very good, especially the high-paced, heart-pounding music that kicks in at various 
 points in the game. It can get slightly repetitive after a while, but that's to be expected when 
 you play for quite a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ariel_king
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 22, 2005 9:04 am PT
Review:  I have played this game and boy let me tell you that this game rocks!!!!!!!!
  
  Gameplay: You playing as the prince of persia of course trying to change his faith. You can climb 
 on walls, slice people into half and even reverse time and prevent your death. This game is an 
 awsome game and it has an awsome gameplay.
  
  Graphics: Beautiful. The Prince looks perfect and the areas are awsome.
  
  Sound: There is 
 a beautiful sound in this game. The voice acting is excelent and the music are fantastic.
  
  Value: You can play for hours and hours trying to finish the game. This game has a great storyline 
 and long storyline but still it will be fun if there will be a multiplayer mode in the next game.
 
  
  Reviewer's tilt: Overall this game is an awsome game and you should definitely buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oamorap
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 19, 2005 11:21 am PT
Review:  Definitivamente las secuelas de las videojuegos, son todo lo contrario a las de las peliculas, 
 las segundas partes de las pelicuals casi siempre son malas, cosa contraria pasa con las de los 
 videojuegos, normalmente, las secuelas de estos son muy buenas y esta no es la excepcin.
  
  POP WW, nos trae de vuelta al principe, pero ahora mas viejo, mas curtido, mas maoso :-) y 
 con un gran problema tras el...
  
  El apartado grfico es una cosa que toca ver pa creer, es impresionante, la msica no se me hace 
 tan buena como en POP SOT, pero tambien es muy buena y los movimientos y combos del principe uffff 
 eso si es lo mejor del juego.
  
  De nuevo una historia muy bien contada, mas largo y mucho mas jodido que su predecesor, recomendado 
 totalmente.
  oamorap 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ragerunner2005
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 18, 2005 7:13 pm PT
Review:  Prince of persia series where my favorite action games to date!
  The Sands of Time i can deskribe as one of the most beateful games I have ever played, but the 
 combat wasn`t very special! Apparently that the Ubisoft wanted to create a prince with more moves. 
 Here are my opinion for everything in Warrior Within!
  
  Environments:
  In all kind of rewiews I been reading complains for the darker environment and music! We all know 
 that combat is not good without some gory and blood so they had a good reason to change the environment 
 to a darker tone. Even with the dark colors, the game looks great and there are rich world to explore! 
 
  
  Music:
  Perhaps they are right about the music, i agree that the music doesn`t fit for a medival Persia, 
 but its stil one of the best soundtracks ever! I think that the music represent the princes rage 
 and hate and i think that it fits with levels perfectly!
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics is stil one of the best features of the Prince of Persia series and it will be forever!
 
  
  Story:
  The story of the game is interesting from the begining to the end. There are a lot of twists in 
 the story, great cinematics, great cutscenes, great characters... very good story, just like the 
 previous!
  
  Combat:
  I saved the best for the end. the Warrior Within combat sistem is fun to watch as it is fun to 
 play. the prince has a lot of deadly new moves. the combat is great and it looks so realistic, 
 its really the best part of the game!
  
  This was my short review of my favorite game.
  Enjoy playing it!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lan_d_best
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 15, 2005 5:52 pm PT
Review:  So this is Warrior Within. It's kind of like what you'd get if you took Dungeons and Dragons-styled 
 fantasy metal band ManOWar and told them to do something with an Arabian Nights feel. I'm not going 
 to tell you it's a bad game. It isn't. It's just that all of its priorities and focus seem bent 
 on pushing the worst qualities to the forefront proudly. It shows off the dragged-out combat and 
 its new 'rougher, meaner' attitude like a four year old happily waving around what it found in 
 the cat's litter box, and all of the really good parts seem to go right under the radar. You have 
 to actively work to get to the fun parts, in other words. It doesn't always feel like it's worth 
 it to do that, to dig through what they thought would be fun in order to get to what you're really 
 playing the game for, and that's just too bad. It's a hollowed out version of the last game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gurnis0
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 13, 2005 10:12 am PT
Review:  I like action games like Matrix and prince. Prince is beter because in price is true fighting, 
 real action and most important you can control time. In second prince is a lots of new combo (some 
 of them is unreal, but thats alright because its game. In Price i dont like sound i think it is 
 too quit. Almost all game is action, but there is also mind games. So prince is mind and actinon 
 game. In this Prince all mistakes which was in first Prince is gone. I think if you like action 
 this game you will like, but if you dont like than you are not good action games fan.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: never-named
Rating: 8.7
Date: Sep 23, 2006 4:10 am PT
Review:  Sands of Time was a work of art, the gorgeous atmosphere, excellent gameplay, and not to mention 
 the charming Prince himself. While Sands of Time ushered in beauty, pleasing sounds and charming 
 characters Warrior Within takes its place as a much more diabolical, dark, sinister and unforgiving 
 game. The Prince we all knew and came to love is gone, now replaced by a dude who had a serious 
 bad-hair-day. The NEW Prince, is the same character from the last game but at the same time tries 
 not to be. The Prince's new-look represents what media does to creativity (nothing further shall 
 be written) .
  
  Commercialism aside, the sequel packs some serious punch as it fixes the biggest complaint from 
 the last game, the combat engine. Sands of Time was a great game and all but it's blatantly weak 
 combat-engine was the only flaw that marred the game from reaching absolution. Warrior Within's 
 combat is far more fleshed out. You can now chain a number of moves into a combo and snuff your 
 foe off. There are about a dozen new ways to kill enemies, you can strangle them, impale them, 
 steal their weapon and kill them with it, or you can just combine all three. Seriously!
  
  Personally I was a bit disappointed with the sound. The FX sound just like the ones in Sands of 
 Time, the slashes, hits, sand-dissipation, everything. The same can be said about the music, some 
 sort of wannabe-edgy metal music music plagues the game's aural experience. Where are the ambient 
 mid-eastern music that whispered in our ears? Godsmack, a band that I vehemently despise contributed 
 their songs as the soundtrack for the game. Their constant nagging make my ears bleed. On the Dahaka-chase 
 sequences the same old tune runs OVER AND OVER AGAIN. The idea quickly wears off. Sands of Time 
 thrived in its excellent voice-acting and dialogue, unfortunately this is not the case is Warrior 
 Within, while some of the characters come out relatively clean, the central character, the Prince, 
 does not sound as great; maybe it's due to the fact that a new voice-actor took the reigns.
  
  Visuals are mostly kept intact, meaning that they are gorgeous, with some slight upgrades such 
 as the character models, now appearing a bit more detailed and less exaggerated than the previous 
 game. Bloom lighting, a wonderful effect makes a welcome appearance and the exotic well-lit mid-eastern 
 areas are now replaced with some dark and murky pseudo-Gothic environments, which gives you the 
 impression of a Legacy of Kain game, which isn't necessarily bad.
  
  There's a lot to be said about Warrior Within, the game is certainly an overall improvement from 
 the last one except that I miss the foggy Arabic environments and the buddy AI, like Farah, from 
 Sands of Time and that the game is maybe trying just a little too hard to look edgy and tries to 
 showcase the new combat system a bit too much (you can never get a minute of silence to stop and 
 smell the roses) , but all in all Warrior Within is a well-implemented and well-written game that 
 anyone following the story or just wants some action (with style) will want to maul at. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ck753
Rating: 6.3
Date: Feb 6, 2006 3:19 pm PT
Review:  So some developers are still making games where you cannot save regularly. Like this one, you have 
 to suffer through an interminably long intro movie, fight a bunch of pansy pirates, then get through 
 the first boss (who is quite tough, especially after the easy foes you just fought your way through) , 
 then proceed some more until you can save the game? You're playing, and replaying (and replaying... and 
 replaying) for like ten or twenty minutes before the first save opportunity arrives. (Or thirty 
 or forty minutes if you set the difficulty to something manly.) I lost interest in short order. 
 Seriously, these games with the gimpy savegame options are dreck. I wish I would have known before 
 I bought it. Make us play the same B. S. over and over again just to get to the real action. They 
 can go fly a kite. Life's too short to waste replaying the same buildup sequence over and over 
 and over and over....
  
  Then there's the actual gameplay; this game was recommended by gamespot as a hack-and-slash fiesta 
 by those who enjoy games like Blade of Darkness (terrific) and Rune (not bad at all) . Typical superficial 
 Gamespot analysis. This game is nothing like those classics. The camera angles are total garbage, 
 not at all what I expected from a third-person action game. Right off, there were instances where 
 the Prince all but disappeared from sight, hidden behind some obstruction or recess as he went 
 about on his frenetic way, and often the camera freelook and change camera options are completely 
 non-applicable and locked out. At least there should have been an option to lock the camera in 
 a trailing view, so it was always at the Prince's back. That would have been a HUGE improvement 
 and might have made this game exponentially more playable and intuitive.
  
  And speaking of intuituve, the controls are all over the place, not at all tight or second-nature, 
 no matter whether you use a gamepad or a mouse-keyboard scheme. (Much of this I can directly attribute 
 to the aforementioned camera being fixed up on the wall somewhere.) Basically, you find yourself 
 running to and fro, back and forth, thumbs gyrating, hammering the "attack" and "block" and "jump" 
 buttons repeatedly to try to make something happen -- and sometimes something does happen, but 
 often you don't really get *how* it happened. There is no finesse, none of the timing and the deliberate, 
 impressive, satisfying unleashing of moves that occur in classic hack-and-slash (again, I will 
 refer to Blade of Darkness; it had all this in spades) . Basically, the Prince runs and leaps around 
 like a monkey on espresso, slicing and slashing and bouncing off the walls, and the camera sits 
 there looking down at it all while he ricochets around the screen like a ping-pong ball. It is 
 a hollow experience: It feels superficial and it feels poor... action games shouldn't be this hard 
 to get into and this hell-bent on limiting user control and user immersion... did I mention that 
 I *hate* having to replay the same ten minutes over and over? Talk about pulling you out of a gaming 
 mood. Makes one feel like a mule chasing a carrot on a stick. Fun stuff!
  
  Another thing I do not get is the weapons themselves. There is no rating on each, and it is often 
 difficult to identify the weapon until you pick it up, and even then it's pretty vague; there are 
 various types of swords and daggers but I couldn't see any difference in the way they perform. 
 Axes were easy to distinguish but again, the prince swings everything around like he's gone loco 
 and the blood flies regardless. Click-click-click goes both of the attack buttons. Zim-zam-zoom 
 goes the Prince. Sound exciting? It's not. Sigh....
  
  Whatever temporary weapon you happen to be carrying in your left will wear out quickly indeed, 
 but the sword that's fixed in your right fist is apparently imperishable, and is not interchangeable 
 except during several scripted, predetermined phases in the game. And if you throw away the weapon 
 in your left hand, it disappears; you can pick any particular lefty weapon up only once, once it's 
 gone, it's gone, so it forced me to be real nervous about selecting and casting away weapons, and 
 real nervous about accidentally tapping the "throw" button, which also happens to be the "pick 
 up" button. It's a strange weapon system.
  
  The graphics look fantastic, by the way, and they play smooth on my archaic old GeForce 4 Titanium, 
 joined with my P4 2.66 GHz and 1 GB of Ram. But to me, nice graphics are about as important as 
 looks on a muscle car. Important? Sure. You betcha. But not the whole story. For a serious ride, 
 I'll take a tweaked-out Grand National with the piss-poor original paint any day, and be happy 
 as a pig in you-know-what. The car looks pretty good, all in all, (especially when you're twenty 
 feet away) , but never mind the paint job: the car drives like it wants to be driven! By the same 
 token, a game should play like it *wants* to be played, graphics notwithstanding; it shouldn't 
 be an exercise in head scratching , excessive control adaptation, and restarting from level one 
 again and again.
  
  I just do not get this game. I never played its predecessor, the Sands of Time, but I picked this 
 one up expecting to get into some satisfying melee fighting and work my way through some tense, 
 atmospheric levels. It fell far short of my expectations (or is perhaps another type of game entirely 
 from what I expected or would have wished) . But hey, that's just my initial take on it. I could 
 be wrong.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rodelpi
Rating: 6.8
Date: Oct 22, 2005 1:46 am PT
Review:  what is really intresting in this game is the combat on the other hand u really sometimes get bored 
 when u go through these slaying machines and wall knives etc. like repeating the path over n over 
 . sometimes you feel yourself weak and easy to die. but you often fine the cure to regain ur strengh 
 so dont worry. what prince of persia lack is the story because when you play it you just dont know 
 what it going on , it's more a mission than a story . like goin to the portal gates many times 
 bring me a headache. anyways it's intresting and really need concetrating. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: A-S_FM
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 21, 2005 3:06 pm PT
Review:  Back in about 1990, an amazing platform game was released. Prince of Persia. It was just so much 
 fun, the swordfights, the death-defying leaps, the spikes! A sequel and a terrible attempt at a 
 remake later, Prince of Persia: Sands of Time was released. A game which was easily the greatest 
 old-game remake ever. It perfectly captured the excellent trap-stuff and combat, and brought it 
 up to par with the expectations of modern technology, with a pleasant storybook atmosphere, combat 
 which was a pure joy to behold and traps which made Tomb Raider look like a walk in the park, Prince 
 of Persia Sands of Time earned itself a place in the annals of modern gaming. But if Sands of Time 
 is a storybook, then Warrior Within is an angry teenager. Almost everything that made SoT great 
 has been changed, twisted. From the music to the fundamentals of the gameplay, it's all just so 
 completely wrong.
  
  The plot sees the prince trying to escape from a big mean beasty called the Dahaka who wants to 
 kill him for releasing the sands of time, so he decides to go to some castle where the sands of 
 time were created and stop them being created. All the while he's being pursued by the relentless 
 Dahaka. It's nothing special, but it's clear enough that they spent no time developing the plot. 
 No matter, plots mean nothing when the game is fun. But WW isn't fun. I shall explain.
  
  Starting with the music - in SoT the music was mostly Indian-orchestral type stuff and sounded 
 great, and fit the game perfectly. WW mostly uses thrashy rock music which just sounds absolutely 
 terrible and doesn't fit the game at all. At all. Thank god you can turn off the music. The combat 
 is also less enjoyable than it was in SoT, in WW too much emphasis has been placed on chopping 
 the enemies in half, rather than the joys of jumping around like a crazy person and attacking with 
 lightning fast attacks. To make matters worse (much, much worse) , the prince and his enemies have 
 a tendency to throw terrible insults at each other, that are just extremely annoying and do nothing 
 to help the game.
  
  For the most part, the trap-dodging side of the game remains unchanged - almost to a fault - it's 
 precisely the same stuff as SoT, the only real new thing added for WW was the ability to slide 
 down huge cloth banners, nothing else was added in terms of new trappery. This is both good and 
 bad - good because SoT's gameplay was so perfect that it needn't be changed, but bad because sequels 
 should always expand and improve on the originals. One slight problem though, if SoT was challenging 
 yet easy, then WW is outright frustrating.
  
  Prince of Persia has always been a game where you died all the time, but never in a previous PoP 
 did I feel like I was being punished for no reason, I regularly thought to myself "this is not 
 fun, at all". And that's a big problem - games are meant to be fun, challenging, sure, but they 
 must be fun. WW is outright tedious on regular occasions. The traps are too unforgiving and water 
 (health) is too sparse. It was an intelligent move having fixed save points in SoT, but WW would 
 have *really* benefited from a qucksave feature.
  
  The game also features periodic bosses, they are giant golem type creatures that you have to knock 
 to their knees then leap up onto their backs and hit them in the head! The first time you kill 
 one, it's an amazing experience - but there are loads of them and every encounter is the same, 
 and it quickly becomes tiresome. If SoT was too short, WW is too long! At about 15 hours long, 
 it's longer than most games these days, but at about the half way point I found myself just wishing 
 it would end.
  
  Visually, the game looks every bit as good as SoT, which means it looks great - it's not going 
 to challenge even a mid-range PC to its limits, but it does look good and people who live for eye-candy 
 won't be disappointed. Barring the music and insults, the sound is every bit as good as SoT's was, 
 meaning it's also great.
  
  All that said, and faults aside, PoP: WW still retains most of the elements which made SoT such 
 a classic, and you certainly can enjoy it as it holds some enjoyable combat, interesting puzzles 
 and excellent traps, but in my opinion the bad outweighs the good.
  
  Prince of Persia 1 and 2 and Sands of Time were defining platform games in their time. Prince of 
 Persia 3D turned out to be a flop, and in my opinion, Warrior Within is just as bad. Hopefully 
 the upcoming Prince of Persia 3 will fix Warrior Within's problems. If you haven't played a modern 
 PoP game, buy Sands of Time right now. If you've played Sands of time, but are hungry for more 
 - try WW - but be warned, it plays like an angry teenager. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jwells
Rating: 7.1
Date: Oct 12, 2005 5:27 am PT
Review:  Please be aware that this review will contain spoilers. When I review a game I focus on its storyline, 
 characters and character development. Warrior within had a few nice plot twists and one glaring 
 philosophical position that I took issue with. First, lets talk about the nice plot twists. I 
 am a sucker for the  plot device. And WW does a good 
 job with that, both as the Prince, and later on as the sand-wraith. In fact, I very much enjoyed 
 the sand-wraith sections, as I got to pretend I was a bad-ass monster. I even found my combat style 
 became more aggressive as the sand-wraith, a testament to how much storyline affects the way I 
 play a game. The twist with Kaileena being well someone important was extremely foreseeable, 
 though satisfying none the less. Like watching a movie you have seen many times, but still watch 
 because you like seeing the characters caught in their decisions of the moment. However, the one 
 major philosophical problem I had with this game is the feeling that the makers of the game believe 
 that all women are evil, stubborn and scantily clad. One of those three things I dont mind, but 
 the other two were just silly. Neither of the major women characters seemed to want to spend more 
 than five seconds considering the Prices dilemma, but instead believed with a kind of stubborn 
 fatalism sketchy prophesies that came from a source that was unexplained. The non-combat/timer 
 puzzles when running from the time-monster were nice additions to the game-play of the first game. 
 Also, in a game with major women characters, I was hoping for some sort of romance angle that never 
 arrived. The romantic sections of the first game were the highlights of that game, and this second 
 installation fell a bit flat without them. Overall, however, I liked this game and will play the 
 next one. This game could have been better had they had some slightly differences in plot and character 
 development. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: __SuryvoR__
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 4, 2005 8:13 am PT
Review:  Price Of Persia, one on those games which has been ruling over from past 20 years. When I played 
 Prince Of Persia: Sands of time, I'd really love it, and can; t wait to see its new part Worrior 
 Within. But somthing got wrong, Warrior Within Was not that great the way I wanted, the game is 
 too dark, and does'nt have that spirit which Sands Of Time has. Well, what can I do, we just have 
 to Reveiw, thats what gamers do. I hope that Ubisoft will release a better part next time.
  
  Looking Forward To the next part of "Prince Of Persia 3". 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jpcicno6
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 28, 2005 10:12 pm PT
Review:  This game is probably one of the best games I have ever played. It has an exceptional storyline 
 and kept me at the edge of my seat to get to know what is going to be the next thing that would 
 happen to the Prince. Not only does it have a really good story, but what makes POP: Warrior Within 
 one a great game is the free combat system, where you can attack your enemies in different manners 
 accordingly to how your enemies react and the objects you have around you. For examples, if you 
 are practically cornered in a wall by enemies, you can run up the wall and jump off it to end up 
 by cornering your enemies instead. You can also throw your opponents of cliffs, onto traps or even 
 into his allies (your enemies) .
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay is absolutely awesome. As i said before, there are ample sets of combat 
 moves from which you can choose from. This makes the gameplay absolutely fabulous allowing you 
 to practically feel as though you are the Prince himself. The Prince's acrobatic abilities allows 
 the player to access certain parts of the temple in which the game is situated and the traps found 
 tend to make the game extremely immersive.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are not out of this world, but they are very decent and the levels were 
 made in a very nice and deep way, giving a lot of depth and detail to scenery and backrounds. The 
 temple is very realistic and has been given much detail. The bosses found, and the Dahaka chases 
 especially, show much of well made graphics at their best.
  
  Sound: The sound is very lively. Mainly heavy metal music but fits in more then perfectly with 
 the situations the Prince is living in the game.
  
  Value: Absolutely a must have. This game lasts extremely long if the player intends to unlock all 
 the movies and the artworks. The game is very tricky and will take the player a while till he ends 
 the game itself especially on hard mode which is extremely challenging. Anyone will sure get their 
 money's worth from this game!
  
  Control: On the PC, it has to be said that the controls are rather hard. both the mouse and the 
 keyboard have to be used. It tends to be rather hard at first to figure out all the buttons and 
 get used to them. However, having a controller attached to your PC will be of great help in order 
 to get used to the game right away 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rasika
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 10, 2009 11:08 am PT
Review:  I completed Prince of Persia Warrior Within Recently. Its a great game and I rate it 9.3/10. With 
 its Free form fighting system its got very much better than Sands of time. This is one of the games 
 I liked the most. Ubisoft has done a great job in graphics work and specially soundtracks this 
 time. Adding great rock music into the game has made it very popular.
  Graphics of this game is much more realistic that Sands of time. Special effects are very much 
 developed this time around. When playing this game the player will feel that he really is inside 
 the game.
  The free form fighting system makes the fighting really tense and exciting. With the free form 
 fighting system the player can do anything to the enemy. For example the player can steal the enemy's 
 weapon then after that the player's got a choice of cutting his head off, Throw him away etc.. 
 . And in the game environments can be used as weapons most times. For example the player can grab 
 the enemy to manning and if he is near a ledge u can throw him out of the ledge. And there are 
 many knids of enemies like guards, ninjas, golems, spike beasts etc.. Each of these enemies have 
 different fighting styles. The ninjas are very athletic and they are a little hard to beat. And 
 to beat golems the player will have to attack his legs from behind and get on his neck and send 
 the sword into his back neck to kill him. All these make the fighting very tense. Two weapon and 
 single weapon combos has made the fighting more exciting and attractive.
  Going through this game is more like solving a puzzle. There are lot of places that the player 
 have to think very hard what to do. Various kinds of traps bring tension to the player. Music of 
 this game bring out the action inside the game very much. And also attaching a very nice storyline 
 into this game has made it more like a movie. 
  Ubisoft has announced Prince of Persia 3 and Im looking forward to play it and I must admit that 
 its going to be even greater than Warrior Within 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Payasoplas
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 12, 2005 2:13 am PT
Review:  I bought this game because the Xbox version wa very expensive and my PC could handle it, but PC 
 version is only recomendable if you don't have acces to other versions.
  
  The good thing...
  
  The gameplay is almost the same as POP: TSOT that's good because the first 
 game had an excelent gameplay.
  
  The grapahics were improved, the storyline is different and more mature.
  
  The Bad Thing...
 
  
  The Best form POP: TSOT was movility you could move the prince easy and perform complicated moves 
 easly but palying this game in a PC is not as good as in a console, the keyboard and mouse are 
 awful, the game supports the use of joysticks and pads, but they aren't as good as and XBOX, GC 
 or PS2 controller.
  
  The sytem requirements aren't very high but for some reason I couldn't run this game with maximun 
 detail even when my PC could do that easly, I have 512mb in RAM and the game's minnimal is 128mb, 
 I have 256mb in video ram and the game's minimal is 64mb, I have 1.7ghz processor and the game 
 only needs 1.0ghz, I could even run Half-Life 2 with better detail.
  
  The sound is the worst part of this version it only supports sound cards with 3d, if you don't 
 have one you can run the game bout will loss a lot of sound.
  
  Something bad that doesn't have anythig to do with the fact that this is a PC version is the camera, 
 it has the same problems of POP: TSOT.
  
  In the end you'll enjoy this game only if you don't care the problems of this version, if yopu 
 can play it in a console do it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: glassesgeek
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 8, 2005 8:40 pm PT
Review:  The first sequel to a game is, essentially, the most important part of that games series. A failed 
 sequel will cast away the games casual players and end up causing a huge loss in popularity. Take 
 for example Devil May Cry and its sequel. Last year, Prince of Persia: Sands of Time was released 
 and won all audiences among all platforms. With the release of its sequel, Prince of Persia: Warrior 
 Within, many are beginning to speculate if the princes makeover will cut it with its previous 
 fans. The answer is unfortunately more involving than a yes or no.
  
  The beauty of Prince of Persia: Sands of Time was the attractively designed levels, storybook-style 
 story, and epic feel that made it into one of the best platformers of the year. Prince of Persia: 
 Warrior Within takes an entirely different approach with its main character, the prince, and tries 
 to mainstream it even more than it was. Heavy metal music, a main character breathing off baditude, 
 and a tone as dark as a Mortal Kombat game. For those who enjoyed the original for its lighter 
 tone and story, Warrior Within would be better to just skip and await the third in the series. 
 For those curious about the new changes, read on.
  
  The most impressive change to the series is the added attacks and combos. The Prince of Persia 
 is no longer a simple teenager that flies around. This prince comes fully packed with neck breaking, 
 blood splashing, head flying, combo busting action that never seems to get old, unlike its predecessor. 
 While all of these new moves allow some refreshing gameplay, theres no stopping the fact that 
 the repetition never ceases to exist entirely. I can still push one button with my eyes closed 
 and have destroyed the meaningless lives of 5 ninjas. Even the bosses can only be defeated by the 
 repetition of one specific move. This is a common gameplay mistake that many developers make in 
 most platformers that are in the market today. Its as if they expect you to make the gameplay 
 fun if you want, otherwise you are expected to repeat one combo until the hordes of enemies that 
 the game throws at you fade into sand. Complaints aside, the gameplay offers some extreme Mortal 
 Kombat combos and blood gushing fatalities that will please the dark tone game fans.
  
  Unlike Sands of Time, its sequel will take you around 20 hours to complete. This isnt due to an 
 extremely long story exactly, but more of that you will find yourself roaming about the world theyve 
 created trying to either figure out where to go, or change the current time you are in. Much like 
 Ocarina of Time, you will be playing in both the past and present. The past is much more elegant 
 and pretty to look at, whereas the present is a vegetation filled decaying temple awaiting its 
 death. Switching back and forth can become quite confusing and attempting to find your way through 
 the story with your trusty map of vagueness, can make life more than frustrating. Thankfully, 
 the game offers quite an exciting twist and several different changes of pace throughout to keep 
 you interested and fighting to hit that twentieth hour. The story will attract a darker audience 
 and those who can stand the prince using ridiculous dialogue such as Come on! You can do better 
 than that! Making the prince an extremely unlikable character was certainly a wrong turn by the 
 design team, but apparently it had to be done. The only redeeming quality about the prince is that 
 he still retains his swift skill with a sword and his impressive acrobatics. The new characters 
 are a nice addition and combine to make an enjoyable story. 
  
  Warrior Within, much like its predecessor, has one redeeming quality that will attract all audiences 
 and hopefully be the reason to give it a chance; the puzzles. The most memorable moments I have 
 from both games are doing the most amazing series of flips, wall-runs, curtain surfing and unpredictable 
 twists and turns that make anyones inner child light up with joy. I can admit to enjoying the 
 puzzles in Warrior Within more than those in Sands of Time mainly due to the well designed and 
 textured environments. The darker tone makes the puzzles seem more difficult and intense. A few 
 camera problems cause these puzzles to be even more difficult than they should be, adding to your 
 already high frustration level from the map issue. Core gamers will be fine with the normal difficulty 
 level that offers an excellent challenge that leads up to an intense final boss. Casual gamers 
 should be advised to stick with the easy difficulty level if they plan on ever getting through 
 the story. 
  
  Warrior Within offers a new take on the Prince of Persia series, hoping to attract those it lost 
 due its light tone in the previous title. It delivers new entertaining additions to the gameplay, 
 more intense puzzles, and an extensive, dark and mystifying story. Unfortunately, the games somewhat 
 disappointing attempt at baditude and Ocarina style past and present worlds can make it become 
 quite annoying and frustrating. A worthwhile attempt, but I await the third with much anticipation.
 
  
  85/100
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarknessTDA
Rating: 4.9
Date: Apr 19, 2005 3:17 pm PT
Review:  Oh gosh, I don't know what to say about this game. I have not been so disappointed for several 
 years! Dead of Alive and Doom 3 are both great game, but combining them like this is threating 
 humanity. But well, I'll try to be as descriptive as I can:
  
  Last years game, Prince of Persia: The Sands of Time, was an action adventure game that was really 
 great. It offered me everything I wanted. A great storyline, outstanding and highly atmospheric 
 graphics and lots of action when you sought it most. It was a game with the right difficulty, while 
 too short, offered a really nice experience for what it lasted.
  
  This game expands greatly on the concept. But it takes two major steps backwards. Steps, that are 
 so stitching, they can't be overseen. In fact, they make the game worse than horrible.
  
  You do get a connection between this and the original game. But the connection is poorly done by 
 a single little cinematic, and the rest of the game seems like you shouldn't know anything about 
 the previous.
  
  The games atmosphere has been reversed. Instead of having this highly atmospheric and wonderful 
 pace, the game is filled with DARKNESS. The whole game is much darker, as is the sound. The prince 
 has been completely redone both in the way he is, and the way he looks. The whole thing makes him 
 feel like an insolent and arrogant brute, and I do not like any of the characters in the game so 
 far.
  
  This game is so terribly difficult. On the normal setting I didn't bother playing more than 3% 
 of the game, becouse it became so horribly difficult so fast. The first combat brings about the 
 same challenge as 40% in Sands of Time. This makes the learning curve incredibly long, as you have 
 to fight that first fight over and over and over until you finally get it. It becomes very boring 
 over time, and that's mainly becouse the AI is only programmed to be difficult. Not exiting nor 
 refreshing. That makes combat very boring.
  
  The worst thing about this game is propably, that everybody just runs around and tount each other. 
 They hate each other while they fight, which is logical, but the problem is that such things shouldn't 
 be in a Prince of Persia game. They run around saying "You b*t*h!", "Is that the best you have 
 to offer?" and so forth. The baditute is outstanding, and it's there to "thrill" you all the time. 
 The story feels quite uninspired. Well, going back in time to prevent the Sands of Time from ever 
 being created. Wow... that's original. No, it isn't. Sands of Time had an interesting plot, where 
 you had the prince tell a lady what would happen in the future if the Vizier was not killed before 
 he betrayed them. The story is completely uninspired. As is the rest of this blasted game!
  
  The only thing I remotely liked about this game was the acrobatic puzzles. They remain run 
 and intact, and are great treat. You can do all sorts of interesting thing, and the promise of 
 playing this is the only thing that presses me forward. And becouse that's the only, it really 
 doesn't.
  
  To that extent, I have only played 3% of the game, and I already hate it for being too edgy and 
 too difficult. I trusted the GS review that this game was worth buying. A horrible mistake, I'm 
 afraid. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrlucky3
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 19, 2005 2:45 pm PT
Review:  One of the best games of the year it was weary good and the new battle system was incredible!
 
  I was a veary big fan of the game i alweys liked action games but this game was revulitionary 
 i was expecting a more worst game than the first part of the game but wat i got was more than 3 
 times better game than its predecessor! First the sounds they was increddible of course nit so 
 good like in games like metal gear solid 3 snake eater but still great the soundtrack was great 
 it totaly was compared to the gameplay witch was impressive too!
  The grapfics was veary good unlike the pc version in ps 2 x box and gamecube graphics effect motion 
 blur was used great but in the pc version it wasnt veary good ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alpha_company
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 26, 2005 12:33 pm PT
Review:  The game starts with an intense ship scene where you learn the controls via the onscreen prompts 
 and fight off monsters all around. This would then lead to a full-fletched boss battle with a flunkey 
 of the Empress. To say that this is a very unique introduction to the game would be an understatement. 
 The fight is actually quite intense and unless you are already accustomed to the controls, you 
 will find yourself struggling to keep up with the pace of the game. The Prince is back alright. 
 
  
  Like with Sands of Time, after reaching a certain point in the game, you will be allowed to go 
 back in time for a few seconds to prevent mistakes or to avoid attacks. Being an adventure game, 
 Warrior Within has its share of puzzles to solve. Most of these involve figuring out how to get 
 the Prince to a certain area where he will flip a switch to open a door. Unlike Sands of Time however, 
 there are less puzzles this time around as most of the action revolves around combat. 
  
  There are attacks that can be used against multiple enemies. Also, the improved combat system means 
 that the Prince can now wield two weapons at one time and use them in powerful combos. However, 
 because different weapons have different attack speeds and last a specific number of hits, your 
 attacks will vary accordingly. 
  
  There are also impressive visual effects to go with the combat moves. Every now and then, the game 
 will switch to a slo-mo close-up mode ala the Matrix so that you can witness beheadings and slicing 
 of enemies in their full glory. Combine this with the gorgeous depictions of Middle Eastern architecture, 
 the game resembles more a dreamy cinematic feast then a video game. Also deserving of a mention 
 is the way you can choose to fast-forward cut scenes in the event that you lose and have to restart 
 from the beginning of the level. This is a better alternative to skipping the sequence altogether 
 because you still get to see a brief recap of what went on and you wouldnt be thrust into a battle 
 immediately after the restart before you can prepare yourself. 
  
  Back to the Future...
  While the voice acting isnt too bad, some of the characters lines are too few and this leads 
 to quite a lot of repetition. The producers might want to go easy on the taunts because after having 
 to play through some of the boss fights for a few times (due to above issue with jumping and dying) , 
 the last thing you want is to be mocked incessantly by some creature you have already dispatched 
 more than once. 
  
  In an attempt to compliment the dark tones of the story, the soundtrack comprises mainly of rock 
 and metal-sounding tunes. This is indeed a significant change from the lighter settings of the 
 previous games. After all, from the cover art picture of the gruff, bitter-looking hero, you wouldnt 
 be expecting a cheery game would you? 
  
  When compared with Sands of Time, Prince of Persia Warrior Within definitely pales in comparison. 
 Character development is still as well fleshed-out and the story is still as absorbing but the 
 game play mechanics are a total let-down. Despite that though, the game is still quite an enjoyable 
 experience and if you are not one who is easily frustrated, be sure not to give this one a miss. 
 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: solaskaze
Rating: 3.7
Date: Feb 11, 2005 7:19 pm PT
Review:  Gamespot's review of this game is pretty much on target, with one exception: they did not emphasize 
 enough how puerile, crass, and unimaginative the plot and characters are in this game. It's the 
 equivalent of a late night, poorly written, low budget B action show. The music in this game is 
 also downright laughable (compared to the original, where the music was appropriate) - to the point 
 where the whole game is actually offensive.
  I will guess Ubisoft will not do as well as they hope on this game, just as the original: the original 
 because for those who care about RP/story, they may not have known they could find it in this game.
 
  For Warrior Within, they will lose out, because this sort of game really is of only interest to 
 those who like Doom 3 type games. And if you like Doom 3, why bother at all with Warrior Within?
 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xears
Rating: 3.3
Date: Feb 5, 2005 2:12 am PT
Review:  I loved the first Prince of Persia. It was one of my all time favorite games. It had innovative 
 gameplay, beautiful graphics, and a story I'll never forget. This prince of persia adds extremely 
 little to the gameplay, the graphics are good but there are lots of unexplainable slowdowns, and 
 the story is almost nonexistent. The only thing that makes this feel like a sequel is the similar 
 gameplay.
  Frustrating controls. How many times was I down to my last sand vial when because of the screwy 
 camera angle the prince jumped in the wrong direction to his death? How many times when I was trying 
 to jump over an enemy did I do a wall jump and fall to my death? The directions just werent intuitive 
 and the camera was frustrating to adjust. There were long sequences that would have been easier 
 had the camera not been royally lame and made jumping in the correct direction not a guessing game. 
 Eventually you get sick of fighting the same sequence of battles, doing the same jumps, timing 
 the same moves over and over as you try and cross a hurdle. I can see not putting in quicksaves, 
 I can see spacing out savepoints, but retry points should have been more frequent. Like fighting 
 the second golem. So after my third or fourth try, I get to the golem and I fight him without dieing 
 for a decent amount of time, I waste a time vial trying to slow down time and instead did a mili 
 second rewind, I get clobbered and die. Where do I end up? At the beginning of the golem battle 
 again? No! Way back before all the jumping puzzles. Give me a friggen break.
  Graphics slow downs. In a battle when doing a combo it seemed like randomly I was getting time 
 slowed down as if to show off the combo. But the slowdown wasnt through the entire combo and had 
 a strange jerky feeling. I've got a good computer setup and I experienced no framerate loses, wtf 
 was with this?
  The story seems very secondary in this game. They focused on throwing repetitive puzzles at you 
 instead of character development and intrigue. Levels exist soley to complete one puzzle in order 
 to complete a larger puzzle that will eventually get you somewhere. Secondary characters pop in 
 and out and we're not given much detail as to how the prince has fallen on such hard times. What 
 happened to the happy ending of Sands of Time?
  This game was more frustration than enjoyment. Complete disappointment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tredo
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 1, 2005 12:33 am PT
Review:  The violence is very stress-relieving. Violence is awesome, who doesn't like violence?
  Ignore the Prince's attitude, it should not really be a problem, I do not really have a problem 
 with his new style, in fact, I love it. The game is at a good length and should last for about 
 18 hours on hard if you play it for the first time.
  The sound is not as good as the beautiful graphics, but it is still good. The voice acting is okay, 
 but the sound does not go very well with the actions that the Prince produces. The music is good 
 and goes well with the environment; you are not in Persia anymore and they mixed rock and a bit 
 of the traditional Prince of Persia music together and it goes together nicely. This game was worth 
 the wait. Overall, it is an awesome game.
  Note: This is my opinion and I should not have to point it out, but a lot of morons have been complaining 
 to me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SadExchange
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 15, 2005 5:50 am PT
Review:  Coming out a year after Sands of Time, Prince of Persia: Warrior Within brings a lot of new features 
 to the game, while keeping everything the fans loved from the previous Prince of Persia. Ubisoft 
 took some time and got reactions from the first game from the fan community and actually listened 
 to them, unlike many other developers. Not only does it give the player more features with the 
 fighting style, but also has better graphics, and is longer than the first game by a good margin. 
 While staying true to the Action/Adventure genre, Prince of Persia: Warrior Within leads the player 
 through multiple puzzles, an enriching storyline stemming from the first, and also fight scenes 
 accompanied with a more engrossing fighting style that players wont soon forget.
  
  Warrior Within begins a few years after Sands of Time where the player finds the Prince being relentlessly 
 pursued by what is known as a Dahaka. A creature, which is almost impossible to kill, that pursues 
 the Prince throughout the story of Warrior Within. When the Prince saved the Sultans empire, he 
 created a rift in the timeline and the Dahaka has come to fix that rift, killing the Prince.. Not 
 wanting to be pursued by this creature that seems to devour everything it its path, the Prince 
 comes up with a plan to visit the Island of Time to stop the sands of time from being made. Seem 
 plausible to you? While moving forward within the story, it may sometimes feel like things dont 
 make sense or that things may seem out of place, but thats because youre constantly switching 
 between the past and present while you traverse the Castle of Times interior and exterior. Without 
 ruining the story, Ill say that while progressing through the game, youll actually be meeting 
 up with yourself moving throughout the large levels and puzzles, but only at a different time. 
 Sound confusing? Well, once you get through the first three quarters of the game, all this mumbo 
 jumbo will make sense and youll finally see the big picture and what the Prince is trying to do.
 
  
  Listening to their fans, Ubisoft took the wonderful combat system that was in Sands of Time and 
 made it so much better in Warrior Within. While you were only limited to a certain amount of moves 
 in Sands of Time, the Prince seems to almost have an endless repertoire of combat oriented acrobatics 
 in Warrior Within. This time around youre able to dual-wield with the ability to throw your secondary 
 weapon at the enemy. The ability to dual-wield alone is a great feature and the amount of moves 
 you can do with both weapons during combat is amazing, but even when youre down to one weapon, 
 there seems to be a whole new set of combat moves to pull off. Throughout the game youll be deciding 
 which fighting style you like more and building your technique from there. Youll come across a 
 few different primary weapons throughout your trials in the Castle of Time including the Eagle, 
 Spider, Serpent, Lion, and Scorpion swords, each giving a unique ability to the Prince to add to 
 his style of combat. If youre lucky enough and find all the health bonuses throughout the puzzles 
 in the game, youll find a new sword, the Water sword, which will give you the alternate ending 
 and cinematic movie for your time spent locating them all. Finding all the power-ups within the 
 game is more difficult than in Sands of Time because of how the puzzles are developed and the fact 
 that youll need to backtrack to find some, but for your troubles, youll be rewarded. With the 
 new added moves, youll not only be vaulting over your enemies, but also doing some impressive 
 twists and turns and ultimately doing a upside down twirl with your blades that will make your 
 enemies think twice about attacking you. This ability, along with the vault your enemy over a ledge 
 to their death below speeds up some of the longer battles in the game. Even with the addition of 
 all these new moves in the Princes repertoire, the combat still seems smooth and flawless between 
 actions and enemies. After receiving the amulet that belonged to Farah from Prince of Persia: Sands 
 of Time, the Prince is still able to control time and is given 5 different powers to work with 
 during the game.
  
  But the combat is only a part of what makes this game great. Following along with the amazing environmental 
 puzzles from Sands of Time, Ubisoft created even more puzzles for the Prince in Warrior Within. 
 What makes these puzzles fun, is the fact that youll be seeing some of them a couple times, but 
 in different time periods such as the Castle of Times clock tower. As you progress through the 
 tower hoping to start it up again, youll find that you have to travel from the present to the 
 past and vice versa, seeing the design of the tower change because the effect of time on its gears 
 and hinges. Also being unique from Sands of Time, youll find the need to backtrack throughout 
 some of the levels. Where as in Sands of Time, there was one straight path that you never crossed; 
 Warrior Within has the Prince making multiple paths throughout the different levels and areas of 
 the castle to reach his ultimate goal. Also adding to the puzzles, the Prince will find different 
 chests throughout the puzzles and areas of the castle that contain items known as extra features. 
 These extra features could be anything from a scene illustration or a short video that can be seen 
 from the main menu. There are many chests throughout the two time periods in Warrior Within, and 
 the incentive to collect them all is definitely worth some reply value which adds to the overall 
 game.
  
  The graphics have been revamped from the first and the design of the actual game has taken a turn 
 away from the glossiness of Sands of Time. No longer are you the dignified prince from the first 
 game, but because of being haunted by the Dahaka, the Prince has turned into a cold-blooded killer 
 never sleeping, nor eating until he reaches his final goal of stopping the Sands from being created. 
 Within the first few puzzles of Warrior Within, youll know why the game was given a mature rating. 
 Blood and gore have been added into the game which you might not notice it at first, but the first 
 time you take your two blades and slashed them across each other cutting the head of your enemy 
 off, youll begin to see that this is definitely a different prince than in Sands of Time. With 
 this darker tone, youll either love it or hate it. Reasoning within the storyline alone is enough 
 to see why the Prince has changed, but some may not appreciate the need for a more blood-thirsty 
 warrior.
  
  The sound is also different from Ubisofts first Prince of Persia. Instead of the Arabic music 
 heard throughout the background, youll hear an edgier music as you slice heads off and fling bodies 
 over balconies. During different chase scenes from the Dahaka, Godsmack tracks will be bursting 
 onto your speakers while you try to outrun your relentless pursuer around corners and over ledges. 
 During your skirmishes whether theyre on ledges, balconies, or large rooms where you battle the 
 giant golems, the Prince will be swinging and thrusting his swords to rock music. A very different 
 tone since Ubisofts first offering. Though the tone of music certainly goes with the Princes 
 more edgy style and mood, youll either love it or hate it. Although the music from Sands of Time 
 was nice even during the combat scenes, the heavy metal seems to add certain exhilaration to the 
 battles when youre low on health and your sands of time is all thats standing between you and 
 the next save point. There are just a couple complaints with the sound though in the game. Sometimes, 
 while in combat or during the large puzzles, the music (Rock Music) will just cut out for no reason 
 until the fight scene starts. And also, during some of the cutscenes, the lip-synching is a little 
 off.
  
  Overall, Prince of Persia: Warrior Within is a game that all Action/Adventure gamers will enjoy. 
 With the addition of new moves, longer gameplay easily lasting 15-20 hours your first time through, 
 and the incentive to find all the chest of extra features to the game, Warrior Within is a must 
 purchase for fans who loved Sands of Time. With the darker tone of gameplay, along with some great 
 rock tunes during the battles, the Prince will lead the player through a well-written story that 
 will only the player wanting more. If you were a fan of Ubisofts first Prince of Persia, but cant 
 decide on how you feel about the different tone of gameplay, give the demo a try and let it convince 
 you that Warrior Within is a worthy successor to Sands of Time.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamersword
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 7, 2005 2:27 am PT
Review:  I liked the first Prince of Persia very much because of the action, story, and gameplay and I'd 
 prefer it over the second one. In Prince of Persia: Warrior Within, the action greatly improved 
 and I had alot of fun jumping of wall, fighting enemies, and dual weapons. I was very dissapointed 
 in the story and how the prince became... they made it way to violent to ever be a Prince of Persia 
 game and the prince became just a brute who kills people by chopping their heads off. Prince of 
 Persia was alot better in the 1st one because it wasn't about killing people but about the story 
 and osticle courses. Although POP2 also had good obsticale courses and was longer than the first, 
 the game was too mature. 
  
  Prince of Persia: Warrior Within is a good game but the story will get worse and so will the game 
 unless the people will do something. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jernst
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 3, 2005 7:14 am PT
Review:  Overall a good game but players of PP1 will be frustrated by the Dahaka boss chases. The Dahaka 
 sequences are so time sensitive that there is no time for error (unless you can set off the occaaional 
 Eye of the Storm time delay effect) . The bad camera angles force you to learn many of the escape 
 routes by losing and replaying from the last save or gameplay-only save point (a save point that 
 will not be preserved if you quit) .
  
  A quick hint ... use the Eye of Storm time delay effect often! It will get you through most of 
 the game and with each kill you'll replentish the sand needed for the attack.
  
  But honestly... I liked the game with its new attack combos and a darker prince. Seriously though, 
 wait for a used copy rather than buying new one. It's just not quite worth the $40 it's priced 
 at right now.
  
  J 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BriMercer
Rating: 2
Date: Feb 4, 2006 8:08 pm PT
Review:  I've played all the Prince of Persia games since its inception (except for the ill-fated Prince 
 of Persia 3D) .
  
  Prince of Persia: Sands of Time was not only the best game of the series but, in my opinion, the 
 best game ever written: Story, graphics, music, game play. Sands of Time had it all.
  
  Warrior Within should have been a slam-dunk. Just stick with the excellent game they had and they 
 have success. 
  
  But theyve taken all the good elements of the Sand of Time and hosed them up, one by one. The 
 graphics are worse, the music is tedious, the game play is needlessly complex, the story needs 
 work. It takes effort to hose up a game as good as Sands of Time but the folks who made the Warrior 
 Within managed it. And, I suppose, that takes talent.
  
  If there is a sequel, heres my advice to the producers: Go back to the sharpness of the former 
 graphics and color pallet; if you are going to make the combat system more complex, implement it 
 slowly throughout the game. Please, bring back the writer, composer and the voice actors from the 
 first game. And, for goodness sake, put the princess in the story!!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cybor
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 24, 2004 7:07 pm PT
Review:  I liked this game but then again I like watching paint dry. I was disapointed with this game. First 
 pet peve is the savings or lack there of. The second issue is a lot of games are getting way to 
 short and it looks like this one is not going to take much time to finish. 
  
  Pete and Repete, to spend money just to repeate areas over and over to get it right is not what 
 I consider fun. Could games developers consider this a valid way to extend game play? I hope note 
 Seems to me that I can remember playing games for over a week. Maybe I'm just to old and others 
 can't remember that.
  
  I will finish this game and do have to say I enjoy it when I 'm not getting pissed at it.
  
 
  To sum it up, I have mixed emothions about this game. I want to like it and do enjoy playing it 
 but its fustration make it more of a fight to finish then to enjoy the game play.
  
  If they come out with number three of this series I don't think I would get it.
  
  I do have 
 to say I'm playing with a keyboard and that could be a major part of my problem with the controls. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fiddlecub
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 10, 2004 3:57 pm PT
Review:  2003s superb Prince of Persia: Sands of Time was an original action game drenched in fairy-tale 
 sunlight and loaded with mind-blowing deeds of skill performed by the titular prince. Wisely, Ubisoft 
 tried to retain the core gameplay of the original while addressing a few minor issues with it: 
 namely, its length, difficulty and relatively simple combat. We also compliment Ubi for going out 
 on a limb and darkening Warrior Withins tone, proving that they didnt intend to simply rest on 
 their laurels. Yet, with all of these positive-sounding changes, none of them are really an improvement, 
 on any level. The core puzzle-solving and acrobatics are still here, and we love the deeper combat. 
 However, its tough to empathize with the grittier prince, and all of the little touches that made 
 Sands of Time so wonderful are gone, making for a good adventure game that should have been much, 
 much better.
  
  Warrior Within begins where its predecessor left off, and the prince is still on the run from the 
 ominous Dahaka, which gobbles up everything in its path, much like the creatures in Stephen Kings 
 The Langoliers. In order to destroy it, the prince decides to travel to the past and kill the Empress 
 of Time, so that she can never create the Sands at all. The prince fights the battle in a resplendent 
 castle on the Isle of Time, in two separate time periods, although even fans of SoT may find themselves 
 initially confused  and newcomers to the series will find the plot initially incoherent, as it 
 assumes intimate knowledge of the first game. The prince and his surroundings are obviously worse 
 for the wear, and the prince doesnt hesitate to use a few choice adult words when under duress, 
 while the environments have lost their enchanting glow. Even the princes scantily-clad foes would 
 be just as comfortable in a Bloodrayne title as they are here, and throughout the course of the 
 15-or-so-hour game, you get the impression that the designers were never very comfortable in the 
 princes new milieu  and frankly, neither were we.
  
  The most successful aspect of Warrior Within remains the acrobatic puzzle-solving, and while you 
 will usually pull of these feats in a leisurely fashion, a nail-biting chase from the Dahaka is 
 the games chief highlight where this is concerned. The prince can still elegantly leap, skitter 
 across walls, and use poles and columns to swing and jump, but a few additions to the platforming 
 make the best part of the series even better. The prince now walks across thin beams like a gymnast 
 (although he balances oddly precariously for a man who can perform mind-boggling trapeze acts) , 
 and slides down tapestries. The level design is as brilliant as that in Sands of Time: it may not 
 be clear to you exactly how you will be getting up that balcony looming above you, but once you 
 get moving, the pieces fall into place remarkably well. Spinning blades and other traps will hinder 
 you, but a keen eye and quick reflexes should get you past without too much of a problem. The same 
 fluid controls from the original make it easy to get your way around, although the camera still 
 has the same annoying tendency to rotate at the worst possible times. 
  
  The biggest quandary here is that Warrior Within is an adventure title masquerading as an action 
 game, and while the new combat elements are thankfully deeper than the somewhat simplistic swordfighting 
 of Sands of Time, the beauty of the new moves is only skin-deep. Now the prince can not only vault 
 over enemies and somersault from walls, but he can twirl around poles, slash his enemies' throats 
 from behind, and even throw daggers from afar. A variety of different combos will have you slashing 
 and twirling about, which is great to look at, but dissatisfying in the end. Battle areas are littered 
 with poles and traps for use during combat, and it can be fun to try different attacks, but most 
 of the time, there is no reason to try out a lot of different moves. Some of the Empress's minions 
 are resistant to particular attacks, so at first, there is an initial impression of variety, but 
 eventually, the button presses you need will become second nature, and in fact, not using the obvious 
 method of enemy execution is a sure way to get yourself killed. Not only is there not usually a 
 reason to try out different things, but the game practically punishes you for it. 
  
  Even the artificial intelligence will make you turn your head, as you notice that some bosses will 
 catch on to your favorite moves and adjust accordingly about halfway through the battle. Once again, 
 however, this is a superficial impression. Generally, simply rolling and twirling around out of 
 your foe's reach and then slashing them when their animation is finished is the best way to handle 
 things. Defense is key, so much so that the camera will zoom in close if the two of you lock swords, 
 and you will have to make repeated button presses to triumph. You will also have to fend off ranged 
 attacks from some enemies with the same parry move, giving your trigger finger a greater workout 
 than the last time around. If you thought Sands of Time was easy, you won't think so in Warrior 
 Within, and in fact, you will be initially surprised at just how tough it can get. 
  
  Fortunately, you also get to fling a few daggers yourself, since you can pick up weapons from your 
 felled foes and throw them at unsuspecting targets. In another nice twist, you can also wield two 
 weapons at once, which adds a few nice combos to the prince's repertoire. It isn't always clear 
 just how important that second weapon is, though, and unless you need it to fling from afar, you 
 may not always notice weather you have an extra sword or not. You can even steal weapons from your 
 attackers in a nifty come-from-behind assault, resulting in a bloody beheading. Of course, you 
 still have your time-warping powers at your command, allowing you to slow time to a crawl - or 
 even rewind it, giving you another chance to jump for that pole or vault over that tough trap. 
 
  
  Those same decapitations are part of the new, surprising grittiness permeating Warrior Within, 
 evident not only in the spattering fluids but in the crumbling edifice that plays home to the Empress. 
 If Sands of Time was Aladdin-esque in its storybook presentation, Warrior Within takes a page from 
 the darker tales of Scheherezade, and the prince is taking no prisoners. He is brooding and very 
 adult, and some of the the small delights of the first game, like the premonitions of upcoming 
 areas or the charming commentary when you plummet to your death (although you still get a brief 
 overview of the upcoming area) , have been replaced by standard power-up/restart screens. The prince 
 still refreshes himself at fountains, and it's there that you can also choose to save your progress. 
 This isn't to say that exploring this new aspect of the franchise was a bad idea, but the suddenly 
 mature lead has lost his appeal, and has become an action film clich that made us realize what 
 a driving force his endearing nature was the last time around. 
  
  Warrior Within looks terrific, and is built on the same technology as the first game. In fact, 
 some scenes are downright breathtaking, making you stop just to look at the imposing towers and 
 shimmering gardens. The soft glow has been turned to a dusky hue, which certainly lends itself 
 to the new, menacing prince. The title character's movements are still the star of the show, and 
 his graceful animations are otherworldly, yet they have real gravity to them, making the acrobatics 
 and wall-racing look incredible but not entirely unbelievable. The boss fights, too, are awe-inspiring, 
 such as the gigantic brutes that are as amazing to watch as they are difficult to defeat. We did 
 experience some stuttering issues during cutscenes, although gameplay framerates were smooth and 
 reliable. The sound isn't quite as consistent, and the prince's voice-overs as are annoying (You 
 B*****!) as they are trite. Background music is now mostly made up of metal tracks, which admirable 
 serve to add tension.
  
  Xbox owners get the added incentive of a couple of battle modes that result in scores they can 
 upload to the internet via Xbox Live: Time Attack, in which you rush through a short level that 
 taxes your platforming skills, and in Arena mode, you will face waves of enemies (and get to practice 
 those cool pole-swinging attacks) . This isn't substantial enough an addition to recommend the Xbox 
 version over any other, although the longer playtime is definitely welcome in the wake of Sand 
 of Time's short campaign. Too bad that all of the enhancements made to the prince's fascinating 
 virtual world are actually liabilities. We are glad Ubisoft toyed with the bits that needed improvement, 
 but we wonder why they fixed the things that were never broken. Still, if you missed the prince 
 since his last appearance, you should still check out the sequel; just be ready for the violent 
 twist on your fairy tale paradise. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: knitecrow007
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 8, 2004 12:45 pm PT
Review:  You have heard all about it and what to know what it is really like: over all its a great game. 
 The sequel tries a few new things, some are successful (the new combat system) while others are 
 not (darker theme) and then there are the notable degradation in story/narration.
  
  Lets go through the specifics in order of importance:
  
  Gameplay:
  Its all there: the puzzles, 
 and the brand spanking new fighting system. Its good and uber-cool. Man, killing is fun. The puzzles 
 are of the same quality and number as the original (a very good thing) but there are plenty of 
 fights in the middle. You also have bosses. Unfortunately, there is a lot of recycling of enemies. 
 The bad part is that you are stuck on an island, there is lots of backtracking. It gets boring, 
 but its do-able. 
  
  Also, make no mistake this game feels harder.
  
  Story:
  Now the darker theme isn't bad, it's just badly told. The prince has grey hairs now, and has spent 
 10 years being hunted... he is in a bad mood and angry. The back-story is poorly told by the cinematic, 
 and you have to piece together what has happened (just like the ending) . I just don't feel for 
 him. Good concept, bad implementation. Its believe-able, somewhat memorable, but could have been 
 so much better had they put more time and energy into the narration.
  
  Graphics/sound:
  Graphics are good. Sound is buggy at places, but you can survive. For those if you complaining 
 about rock... let me give it to you straight.... you cannot have fight sequences with rap/country 
 or any of that junk. Rock suits the mood. But the game is not all rock music, non-combat have some 
 very stylish instrumental music, which suits the island of time theme.
  
  
  Bottom line: this isn't your doom3 sequel let down and the story isn't half-life 2 bad. It plays 
 and feels like a great game. What makes me angry is that this could have been a 10.0 game, but 
 because of minor problems is a respectable 8.8.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: eatpepsi
Rating: 7.6
Date: Dec 5, 2004 6:55 pm PT
Review:  Prince of persia warrior within has become the most anticipated third person acttion title after 
 the success of its predecessor the sands of time.
  
  Considering the success of sands of time , warrior within had to surpass the original just in order 
 to make its place in the genre. Yes apparently they did that well, but the problem is that they took 
 the idea of the action from the action/adventure genre and multiplied it with the factor of 100. I 
 am not saying that they forgot the adventure part completely, but in warrior within the adventure 
 looks miniscule compared to the blood bath our prince creates in his journey.
  
  Action is not a bad thing ,but the super hit formula of sands of time has been really manipulated 
 and the result is warrior within which is not as nor equal to sands of time but a very good game 
 in its genre as long as it is not compared to the GREAT sands of time.
  
  Now we will discuss each part individually.
  
  Gameplay : the gameplay in warrior within is 
 not completely different from SOT but the "free flow combat system" (complex name for sword swinging 
 action) is a good addition. it is nothing new to the action games, but reminds you of games like 
 devil may cry and onimusha. the controls are solid. but the response sometimes is not so good. the 
 overall feel of splitting enemies into 2 and breaking necks becomes monotonous after some time. the 
 creators claim of putting in more than 30 weapons ,but to tell u the truth they all look , feel 
 and handle the same. A very good improvement is the DUAL weilding weapon system. you simply slash 
 enemies with not one but two swords, which adds some good element to the game but later becomes 
 boring. nearly half way through the game you will start throwing them of the ledges instead of fighting 
 them.
  the puzzles are present but they really make a small part of the game.
  there is a lot of back tracking in a game, whose predecessor showed us no same environment in the 
 whole game. there is some thing called time portals which will change the environment and not the 
 place. this change in environment is completely prosthetic , by which i mean the colours only change, 
 nor the traps or doors.
  
  Graphics : the graphics are simply not as good as SOT, but good for the present hardware. let me 
 elaborate on that now. the arenas are simply dark, goudy, pathetically sickening. but some times rarely 
 light up. it is a very dark agme, but that was intended, but seriously does not look that good. our 
 pince this time wears tight clothes so there is little effects and rendering on his clothes. it 
 some time happens that our prince looks uglier than his foes.
  
  Story : the story is simply not that good , but is ok and has a ok ending. unlike sot the prince 
 no more talks to himself in the game, which gave him a lovable look .
  
  Sound : the sound is a treat for hardcore rock fans, but the usual players will get bored of the 
 godsmack theme over and over and over......... again.
  
  stability : it suffers some technical problems two to three times in the game . if u are not careful 
 u will be stuck in the wall and some time floating in the air.
  
  Replay value : there is little or no replay value at all. but u may just want to see all the artworks 
 so u just might play it once more.
  
  Overall the game will be liked and appreciated by the fans of sot and may also be loved by action 
 fans, but the crowd which wanted another epic like saot will be dishearted.
  
  CONSIDERING all the NEGATIVE i empasised in my review , let me tell u this in the end . its an 
 OUTSTANDING game , perfectly executed action tiltle , with a nice story and lots of fun to play..
 
  
  i dont know why but i am advising you to go and get it now. NOW 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CrazyBrazilian
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 1, 2004 11:08 pm PT
Review:  Prince of Pesia: Warrior Within is the sequel to the groundbreaking Prince of Persia: The Sands 
 of Time, and while it improves on most of its predesessour's problems, it creates quite a few of 
 his own that hurt the game in the long run.
  
  Warrior Within, takes a more darker and mature aproach to the game, you play a prince that is cursed 
 and has to face his fate -his death- he was suposed to die in the last game...... but as you can 
 see he didn't so there is this big scary thing called the Dahaka hunting him.
  
  One of the main differences betwen WW and SoT is the fact that WW focuses a lot on the combat, 
 as it let's you use the game's "free form fighting system" to create you own combos and dispose 
 of enemies as you please. This is one of the high points of the game, however it comes with its 
 costs. The mais one being that platforming in the game is a lot more rare then you would wan't 
 it to be, and when you are at the platforming parts of the game you can't shake the feeling that 
 it was over to quickly, it really hurts not to have as much platforming as you did you SoT, not 
 to say the gameplay sucks, Not at all.
  Warrior within is focused more on combat and thats wha't im going to talk about now.
  
  The 
 prince has a variety of moves at his disposal, he can use one or two blades at any one time, granted 
 there was an unlucky someone you stole one from. The combo system is huge, there are A LOT of combos, 
 and so it gives some lasting value to dispaching your foes. However its not all peachy, there are 
 some times when you just wish those freakin sand things left you alone, the combat often times 
 is right on but on a few ocasions you wish there was some more puzzle and plaforming involved.
 
  
  Graphicly the game is superb, all the modells and cut scenes look great. Its all bathed in these 
 dark colors that really give the game atmosphere. The animations are also top notch. No complaints 
 here though i did experience some fps drops on ocasion.
  
  Here we hit a road block. Sound:
  
  Lets go to the high points then ill rant about all the 
 crap.
  High points - the dahaka creeps me out when he screams. 
  
  Now that thats over with, on to the crap.
  
  First off, I am sick of listening to the following 
 phrases "I AM THE PRINCE OF PERSIA.... AND THE KING OF BLADES" "IF ITS A FIGHT YOU WANT" "EASYER 
 THEN I EXPECTED"
  Its very painfull. Its not that they sound like crap, well they do but its just he repeats them 
 so much. The voice acting in the cut scenes is pretty good... but man the game feel so out of sync 
 and overly repetitive some times.
  Music wise.... well if you like listening to the same metal song over and over again... well rejoice... the 
 rest ends too quickly thus they dont have a direct nor positive effect on the game.
  
  Value: 
  An alternate ending, and unlockables like art and life increasing things. Plus you can 
 find those secrete weapons..
  
  In the end this is a love it or hate it game... i like it but there are some rough points with the 
 audio and sometimes the gameplay gets a bit tedious for a lack of platforming...
  
  Rent it if you are unsure. But if you are wondering, yes its worth your money for as long as you 
 make it last. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
