-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Prince of Persia: The Sands of Time
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/princeofpersiathesot/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec  9, 2003
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.9
Critic Score: 8.8, 29 Review (s)
User Score: 8.9, 3,582 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ubisoft
Genre: Fantasy Action Adventure
Date:     Nov 30, 2003 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
It's fairly short, and it's missing the console versions' bonus features, but Prince of Persia is 
 a truly excellent action adventure game for as long as it lasts. 

  No previous experience with the Prince of Persia series is required to enjoy Prince of Persia: 
 The Sands of Time. In fact, virtually nothing will bar you from being impressed by this extremely 
 well-put-together action adventure game from the studio that brought you Splinter Cell and Rainbow 
 Six 3. In stark contrast to Ubisoft Montreal's previous offerings, Prince of Persia is surprisingly 
 easy, despite the incredible acts of skill and daring that the game's main character will routinely 
 perform during the course of the game. As a result, this original, visually stunning game can be 
 highly recommended to just about anyone. The new PC port, whose release trailed a few weeks behind 
 its console counterparts, is just about as impressive as the others, overall. It's a fairly short 
 game, and it's missing the console versions' bonus features, but it's truly excellent for as long 
 as it lasts.  

          The classic Prince of Persia series returns in one of the year's best, most spectacular 
 action adventure games.     

  Prince of Persia: The Sands of Time takes place in a mystical Middle Eastern setting, all bathed 
 in soft, warm light and looking like something straight out of a storybook. You play as a young 
 prince who possesses exceptional athletic and acrobatic skill. Early on in the game, the prince 
 steals the dagger of time, a treasure from a rival nation, as a token for his father the king. 
 When a traitorous vizier compels the prince to use the dagger to unlock another treasure, a huge 
 hourglass, everything goes wrong. The sands from the hourglass blow forth, enveloping the kingdom 
 and turning its guardsmen and citizens into, for lack of a better way to describe it, "sand zombies." 
 The prince, the vizier, and a young woman named Farah are among the only survivors. In the prince's 
 efforts to undo his mistake, he'll join forces with Farah, seek out the hourglass, and confront 
 the vizier. The game's story takes a backseat during most of the game, but it is bookended nicely 
 and is framed as the prince's own retrospection. So, for instance, should the prince fall and die 
 at a certain point during the game, you'll hear him say, as narrator, something like, "No, that's 
 not how it happened." Not only is this an interesting technique, but it compels you to keep pressing 
 on. You'll want to know exactly how his complicated ordeal will unravel.  

  The prince's new dagger of time has other uses besides causing calamity. It's the key to defeating 
 the evil spread throughout the palace, and it also makes the prince virtually immortal. In most 
 cases, should the prince fall to his death or be slain by a sand creature or a trap, with his last 
 breath, he may use the dagger to "rewind" the course of time to a point prior to the unfortunate 
 incident that would have ended his life. Each time you use this ability, it costs a "sand tank," 
 which you earn a greater quantity of as you get farther into the game, and which you restore by 
 defeating sand creatures. In practice, you won't often run out of sand tanks, but even if you do, 
 you'll restart the prince's story from a recent location.  

  A highly responsive, very forgiving control scheme further ensures that at no point during Prince 
 of Persia: The Sands of Time will you get particularly stuck, if at all. Though other action adventure 
 games involving a lot of death-defying leaps and other such bravery tend to force the player to 
 perfectly time his or her maneuvers and often force him or her to wrestle with issues concerning 
 the controls or camera perspective, Prince of Persia is set up in such a way that it's remarkably 
 simple to pull off all of the prince's spectacular moves. The default PC controls are a mouse-and-keyboard 
 combination, similar to what you'd use with a typical first-person shooter. They work well, though 
 not quite as well as the console versions' gamepad controls. On consoles, it's a bit easier to 
 move in the direction of your foes, as the camera changes angles and the analog control lets you 
 move with more precision. However, the default PC controls ultimately aren't detrimental to the 
 game. What's strange is that the PC version of Prince of Persia apparently only seems to support 
 one specific dual analog gamepad, so even if you wanted to use a dual analog gamepad with the game, 
 you probably wouldn't be able to.  

          The prince's acrobatic moves make Prince of Persia nearly as enjoyable to watch as it is 
 to play.     

  Despite the convincing look of its huge environments, the game is completely linear, and the prince's 
 course tends to be very clear. Doors will slam shut behind him, forcing him to press onward, and 
 each time you enter a new area, you'll see a quick fly-through showing where it is you're trying 
 to go and what it is that stands between you and that goal. Additionally, at each of the game's 
 frequent save points, you'll see a "vision" of what lies ahead -- a quick sepia-toned montage of 
 the trials and tribulations to come in the next area. You'll soon discover that this is basically 
 a built-in hint system. Should you ever get stuck, just head back to a save point, watch the "vision" 
 again, and you'll probably figure out what you're supposed to be doing.  

  The prince has a great variety of really impressive moves at his disposal. Like a Mid-Eastern Spider-Man, 
 he can defy gravity to a certain extent, by triangle-jumping from wall to wall, running horizontally 
 along vertical surfaces, balancing on narrow ledges, swinging wildly from ropes or horizontal bars, 
 jumping from pillar to pillar, and more. He's truly the most acrobatic character in a game, to 
 date, and executing his moves is simple and even intuitive. The prince can't be made to accidentally 
 fall; he'll automatically grab the ledge if you walk him off of one, and you can hang on indefinitely. 
 A separate key is used for pulling yourself up as opposed to letting go, so there's no worry of 
 accidentally dropping even when you seem to be hanging on for dear life. And, even when you're 
 balancing on a narrow rail thousands of feet above the ground, should you lose your balance and 
 tip over, you'll always catch the ledge and can pull yourself right back up. All this is maybe 
 a little too convenient, but at least it means you'll be forging ahead rather than constantly tumbling 
 into pits.     

  The gameplay boils down to two things: observation and timing. First you must figure out where 
 it is you're trying to go, which tends to be evident from the area fly-throughs, the "visions," 
 and the occasional markings seen in the levels that point out switches to be flipped or buttons 
 to be pressed. Then you must get there by running along walls, avoiding traps, leaping across chasms, 
 and more. The timing isn't difficult -- there's noticeable room for error -- and hitting the "jump" 
 key at around the right time, either to roll underneath a trap or to jump at more or less the right 
 moment, will usually do the trick.  

          Dozens of deadly-looking traps and sand creatures make Prince of Persia seem difficult, 
 but it's easier than it looks.     

  The coolest thing about the prince's repertoire of moves is how quickly he can link them together 
 and how nimbly he moves about, in general. The interactions between the prince and the environment 
 are extremely convincing and really must be seen to be fully appreciated. Great, little details 
 are everywhere. If you're standing knee-deep in water and try to run up a wall, you'll see (and 
 hear) the prince's wet feet slip as he fails the move. If you leap straight into a wall, you'll 
 see the prince push himself off and fall back down. Despite his superhuman balance and agility, 
 the prince somehow comes off looking incredibly lifelike and realistic, which makes the gameplay 
 seem all the more approachable. All the prince's moves seem logical in the context of the game, 
 and even early on you'll learn how to tie all these techniques together. For instance, you'll have 
 a chance to launch yourself to the other side of a wall while running across it at early stages 
 of the game. Of further note, special commendation goes to the prince for being the fastest ladder-climber 
 in the history of games. It's a pleasure to just maneuver this character around, which is good, 
 since that's mostly what you'll be doing.  

  The gameplay in Prince of Persia largely consists of three types of actions: navigation (the most 
 common and best type) , combat, and puzzle-solving. The puzzle-solving is straightforward and typical 
 of what you'd find in other action adventure games. You'll push some boxes onto pressure plates, 
 figure out how to use some mysterious machines, pull some switches and levers, and that sort of 
 thing. What makes the puzzles here, at least, seem more interesting is the presence of Farah, the 
 prince's female counterpart, who will automatically assist with some of the puzzles and make them 
 seem like more of a cooperative affair. Farah, who's even skinnier than the prince, can slip through 
 cracks in the wall to reach places the prince cannot. The pair will frequently have to find ways 
 of opening up passages for one another. This pseudo-two-player dynamic, and, in fact, the whole 
 look of the game, is reminiscent of the artistic 2001 PlayStation 2 title ICO.  

          The entire game has a beautiful look to it.     

  One of the key differences is, unlike 
 the female character in ICO, Prince of Persia's Farah isn't a complete liability in battle. Armed 
 with a bow and arrows, she'll help you pick off the droves of sand creatures that you'll occasionally 
 encounter. Just be sure to stay out of her way. Make no mistake, though, the prince will still 
 do most of the work when confronted by enemies. The combat in Prince of Persia, like virtually 
 everything about the game, looks extremely cool. And, like other aspects of the game, it's quite 
 easy. Unfortunately, it's also a little shallow.  

  Technically, the prince has a wide variety of combat moves. His scimitar will do most of the talking, 
 while the dagger of time is used mostly for finishers. The prince can use his blades to deflect 
 his opponents' attacks and can then quickly counter either with the scimitar or dagger. There's 
 no lock-on targeting system, but just by moving in the direction of an opponent, the prince will 
 automatically attack that target. You can use this to effectively battle groups of enemies, which 
 will have the prince dancing and somersaulting around while kicking and slashing at all nearby 
 foes, like a kung fu action hero. He can also stab his enemies with the dagger to freeze them in 
 place, setting them up for a cool-looking finishing move. Better yet, the prince can vault over 
 enemies, slashing them on his way down. Additionally, he can leap off of walls to execute deadly 
 diving attacks, or he can surprise enemies with turnaround flips from walls. Meanwhile, his enemies 
 will mostly just stand there, looking mean. And that's the main problem. There's a decent variety 
 of enemies, and they have a great look to them, but they're not much of a challenge. Even if they 
 manage to hurt you, the dagger's rewind power can negate the damage, as can any pool of water in 
 the vicinity (of which there is usually one) , as drinking water is how you recover your health 
 in Prince of Persia.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (150 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: rohitmitra5752
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 13, 2009 11:57 pm PT
Review:  The first time I played Prince of Persia was the POP3d version. I had liked it. But that was it. 
 Then after a long time I heard of a game that had released in the POP franchise - The Sands of 
 Time. At first I didn't think much of it, but later on when I played it, I realized what a fool 
 I had been not playing it before.
  
  1. Gameplay - A gameplay that had been long forgotten in POP3D was reinvented with The Sands of 
 Time. A camera that interactively changes focus to intuitively help in your combat wasn't a new 
 feature in SOT, but this time it functioned a lot better than what it used to do in POP3d. The 
 Monsters were designed with a lot of care and so was the AI controlling them providing them with 
 defensive blocking capacity and also helping them to coordinate an attack against the player. The 
 key point of The Sands of Time is puzzles. The entire game is filled with such puzzles that need 
 more than just quick reflexes to complete. Also the fantasy story-like environment is one that 
 you will soon start loving.
  
  2. Story - The Story is simple, yet it is one of the best I have seen so far. The Prince (your 
 name is not revealed in the entire game) has fought a kingdom in India and has won a dagger that 
 holds the power to control time. The vizier of the defeated kingdom had actually tricked the kingdom 
 and had helped the prince to win, but it is later revealed that the vizier did it for his own needs. 
 He tricks the prince into releasing the sands of time that turn everyone excepting the prince, 
 the vizier and the captured princess Farah into Sand Monsters. The prince must now battle the waves 
 of monsters and turn back time to restore everything back to normal.
  
  3. Music - The music is original and it is wonderful. Every musical instrument of the eastern world 
 has been played with such excellence as can hardly be imagined. You have to play the game to believe.
 
  
  4. Graphics - The graphics of the game are marvelous. Every detail in the game has been perfected 
 par excellence.
  
  All in all if you haven't played POP - The Sands of Time, you haven't played anything. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheBatFreak777
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 4, 2009 10:26 pm PT
Review:  This game started out really, really great, got bad and then picked up again. I loved the atmosphere, 
 graphics, puzzles, everything. Yet, the game is not without its share of quirks.
  
  In all honesty, some of the fighting sequences in this game are so incredibly poor that I simply 
 can not give this game a 9-10. This pertains more to the earlier parts of the game than the latter 
 but here's a few tidbits:
  
  1. You can usually never heal during a battle which really sucks if you get trapped
  2. Your 
 enemies magically teleport to surround you if you try to run away from them to get a better position.
 
  3. The more you kill the more the enemies spawn. (and spawn and spawn and spawn)
  4. Your ever-favorite magic camera angle shifting at random times
  5. There are only about 5-6 
 different types of enemies in the game making things very repetitive.
  
  Seriously, there are SO many good things about this game but there are also a fair share of bad 
 things as well. In many, many cases the "hard" in this game has absolutely nothing to do with the 
 gamer's ability but simply the way the game plays.
  
  Overall, I'm a fan of this series though this game is certainly not necessarily one to play if 
 you're short on patience. Prepare yourself to try and retry a variety of things over and over before 
 you succeed. This can sometimes get old.
  
  In the end, if you can stick it out, SoT is really a solid game overall. It certainly is odd that 
 the final boss is FAR easier than the first boss by an order of magnitude. That is just so, so 
 strange. Yet, on the other hand, I was quite thankful that the final stages of the game were not 
 as annoying as some of the earlier parts or, even worse, more annoying as some of the parts were.
 
  
  You've been warned so if you haven't played it take the time. As you watch the final scenes and 
 credits you'll find yourself happy you completed it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sapphey_snake
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 23, 2009 12:56 pm PT
Review:  The Prince of Persia series has been around since 1989 when the original Prince of Persia came 
 out for the Apple II. It was ported the fallowing year to PC (DOS) , Amiga and Atari ST. While at 
 first glance the game seemed repetitive, intelligent puzzles and deadly traps that could be found 
 throughout the game made Prince of Persia stand out. Soon fallowed a successful sequel in 1994 
 titled Prince of Persia 2: The Shadow of the Flame and a 3D attempt in 1999 titles Prince of Persia 
 3D. The former flopped big time. But after a 4 year hiatus and the acquisition of the Prince of 
 Persia license by Ubisoft the Prince of Persia franchise has finally been resurrected. 
  Games that take a franchise from 2D to 3D have always been highly regarded (Super Mario 64, The 
 Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of Time, Metroid Prime) . However Prince of Persia 3D was a failed attempt, 
 so one can just pretend that Sands of Time is the first 3D Prince of Persia. And it really is one 
 truly amazing game.
  First of all one can't help but be impressed by the dreamy story book presentation that the game 
 has. Initially the player has the impression that the Prince is directly telling him or her a story, 
 feeling that will continue until the very end of the game. The narrative is very strong and unique, 
 the story is interesting and the dialogue brilliant and often funny. The Prince and Farah have 
 real chemistry between them and are both present various character traits that make them seem real. 
 By the end of the game the player will surely become attached to both characters.
  One of the most obvious things about Sands of Time is it's superb graphics. Richly detailed, with 
 superb lightning and brilliant use of bloom, the game is a true technical and artistic marvel. 
 Add the Prince's brilliant and fluid animations and one has a true visual masterpiece on one's 
 hands.
  The audio is pretty good, but not outstanding. The sound effects are nice and the music is alright, 
 but the voice acting is Sands of Time's true audio gem.
  The gameplay is purely brilliant. The weak point is the repetitive combat, but the innovative time 
 manipulating mechanism makes Sands of Time stand out. Solid platforming and brilliant puzzles truly 
 make this game a worthy sequel to it's 2D counterparts. The controls for the PC version are surprisingly 
 good, the game being very playable with the mouse and keyboard combo, and the camera is not as 
 frustrating as it usually is in this type of game.
  While a truly amazing experience, the Sands of Time eventually comes to an end. Sadly the end comes 
 too soon. This game's weakest link is definitely it's length (6-8 hours) and the lack of reasons 
 to go back and play again. Still, the desire to go through this purely amazing experience again 
 might be reason enough to finish the game for a second or even third time. The PC version also 
 has the original Prince of Persia as an extra, but it is only accessible through a cheat.
  Overall Prince of Persia: The Sands of Time is definitely one of the best games of 2003, and is 
 a must have for, not only platformer fans, but for gamers in general.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: body-n
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 18, 2009 4:32 am PT
Review:  It is realy an interesting game and the video graphic is realy realy perfect and what the prince 
 able to do is amazing and this is one of best games in the world but some views is not good but 
 this is wonderful game and I finished it and I am enjoyed with the game and it is little hard and 
 the prince is very strong and the dagger is beautiful and strong and the story of game is very 
 exciting and this game is big game and there is many places and many monsters and it is three parts 
 from this game part one is sands of time part two is Warrior Within part three is The Two Thrones 
 and this is realy perfect and amazing game and I love it very much this is realy realy interesting 
 and exciting game with perfect story and there is many people and monsters in the story game with 
 realy realy realy perfect graphic this is wonderful game and story with wonderful graphic 
::::::

::::::
UserName: galloper2004
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 26, 2009 2:38 am PT
Review:  POP: The sands of time is a beginning of a trilogy that really makes you wait for the next sequel. The 
 acrobatic moves and style of the prince makes him a fascinating character to watch and his continuous 
 talking makes him a fascinating character to listen to. The game has a good ability to keep you 
 playing and not get bored of the continuous fighting, wall running and vaulting that the game is 
 full of. The new abilities and combos that you acquire all through the game increase your fighting 
 capability to meet the also increasing enemy capabilities. The game is thus full new challenges 
 that you face as the game goes on.
  As for difficulty the game offers a short learning time (although with plenty to learn) , except for 
 the little new tricks and combos that you will learn as the game goes on. The scenes that are shown 
 when you enter a room (which are practically what you need to do in that room) makes life easier 
 for rookies in the genre while experts won't mind a little help specially in the more complicated 
 rooms that require complex and combined moves. Fighting bosses is not boring like some other games (in 
 which you just need to hit the boss a thousand hits to get rid of him) , but each one has a certain 
 weak point that you should find and use.
  The rewind feature that maybe unique for this game, makes you able to easily find out and correct 
 your mistakes without having to see the disappointing game over scene, however you will have to 
 work to collect the sands that you will use for that purpose.
  The graphics are good with well constructed backgrounds and environments. More importantly is the 
 good looking prince that will take you through the game.
  The sounds and music do a great job in immersing you in the world of the prince. 
  It's a really 
 good game to play and it really wont be a waste of your time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AkroyVenslaka
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 13, 2009 6:13 pm PT
Review:  The Sands of Time is the first of the Prince of Persia games for the newer generation and serves 
 as a reboot for the series. Mainly a platformer, Sands of Time also mixes in combat.
  
  The Prince has various moves at his disposal. He can run along or up walls and do flips and jumps 
 among other acrobatics. In combat he wields a sword and a dagger. He can vault over enemies, ripping 
 apart their back as he flips, or spring off walls at his opponents. The major unique feature of 
 this game is the ability to manipulate time using your dagger. You can slow down time in order 
 to make a fight easier or even rewind to undo damage or death.
  
  The platforming is very smooth and fun, although it is pretty easy. The puzzles are always very 
 easy to figure out, but at the same time they are clever and make you feel as if you've accomplished 
 something. The level design is amazingly well done and remains enjoyable throughout. As a minor 
 complaint, the game was nearly 9 hours long which is shorter than the average action-adventure 
 game, but that's fine because it keeps the game from becoming stale.
  
  The biggest blight on this game is combat. While the combat is fun at first, it drags on and on. 
 As the enemies are sand monsters, they can simply appear. Every fight involves a monster spawning 
 for every one you kill until you finally kill them all. Perhaps if you were given some indication 
 of how much longer enemies would continue to spawn, the slog would be more tolerable. As is, it 
 simply gets boring.
  
  The story is the high point of this game. The whole thing is set up as a narrative: the Prince 
 is telling his story. Touches like having him say "That's not what happened," when you die add 
 to this effect. While the story itself isn't that complex, it's beautifully told and the characters 
 are very likable.
  
  The graphics are decent although nothing special at this point. The sound and music are very good 
 and the voice acting is very well done.
  
  Prince of Persia: The Sands of Time is overall a great game. The disappointment you'll feel every 
 time you realize that a combat sequence is beginning is more than made up for by the rest of the 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: khanoomkochoolo
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 23, 2008 11:39 am PT
Review:  This game is amazing!
  The story will catch you right in the beginning and over time, just like a beautiful book you can 
 not sop playing. There is constant desire to know what is going to happen next.
  The environment is an eastern royal palace with a stunning design.
  The music will catch you 
 as a nice theme and also cause sort of an excitement.
  The prince himself is a handsome young man full of honor and pride.
  The combats are nicely effected. 
 The prince is swift and jumpy!
  I could tell after I finished the game I felt really really sad and was sure I`m going to play 
 that game again.
  It`s one of the best game I have ever played.
  There is also the sweet and tender Farah!
  She appears with her bow and helps around some times 
 in fights or accidentally hit the prince in the butt with the arrows.
  There is only one problem with the game and that is that the game is too short. Just when you are 
 excited with the prince and her relationship with Farah the game ends!
  But it`s okay to have better quality than quantity. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Screamer201
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 14, 2008 10:54 am PT
Review:  Prince of Persia is one of the most beautiful games on the market. Everything looks so smooth and 
 the slight blur effect softens the edges and makes the game really look like you are in the middle 
 east. The game also controls very well and is overall an impressive experience. The game begins 
 when the Prince is in a battle with his enemy and discovers the sands of time and the dagger of 
 time and upon his return he is tricked to relese the curse of the sands of time. Then he meets Farah 
 the daughter of the rival king. Then they go together to stop the visir. The graphics and animation 
 are a masterpiece and the gameplay is very good and te combat and puzzles becoem repetitive after 
 a while. The game has an atmosphere of a fairy tale and is not a challange. The game Prince of Persia: The 
 Sands of Time is a lightly game and a good one. Trust me buy it and enjoy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vortex_gw
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 2, 2008 10:33 am PT
Review:  With the new Prince of Persia just around the corner I have decided to share my thoughts on the 
 previous proper Prince of Persia games. The Sands of time trilogy is one of my favourite games 
 series. Now let's start with the first game  Prince of Persia: The Sands of Time.
  
  The first thing I should mention is the story. It's unique, involving and keeps you wondering what's 
 going to happen next. The prince is tricked by the vizier and the he releases the sands of time 
 (without knowing the danger) thus turning almost everybody in the castle into sand monsters. The 
 prince is even forced to fight for his life, fighting all sand monsters he even kills his father. 
 The story is pretty good and it has some twists which even I didn't see coming. I you want to know 
 more about the story you should go and play the game I promise you won't be disappointed.
  The environments are varied and they all look awesome. With the environments comes the great acrobatics. 
 You will do wall runs, swing on polls, climb all kinds of platforms and whatnot. With this comes 
 death because at first some of them are not easy but the prince is wielding the dagger of time 
 and this allows him to rewind time and he can also slow it down. All this makes for great experience 
 and pretty enjoyable playthrough. The level are imaginative and enjoyable.
  Along the way you will meet Farah. She is one of my favourite game character because she acts like 
 a real person and there's a chemistry between her and the prince. Their conversations are enjoyable 
 and memorable. You will help each other along the way but you encounter enemies you need to protect 
 her at all costs. This leads me to one of the few problems in this game. The combat is repetitive 
 and gets boring after a while. Another thing is that the game is too short. I've collected all 
 life upgrades on my second play-through and I finished it in 7 hours. The game is not difficult 
 but there are pretty good puzzles for you to solve which makes the game experience even better. 
 You will appreciate the power to rewind time near the end of the game when you have to make some 
 climbing, jumping, ect. without the dagger of time.
  In summary the game is awesome with few flaws and the great story, great characters, great gameplay 
 mechanics, great puzzles and great environments more than makes up for the flaws. I have a tradition 
 to play the whole trilogy every 4-6 months. Prince of Persia all the way! 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vargasr
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 27, 2008 5:41 pm PT
Review:  This game is really a lot of fun and somewhat smart, you can't go wrong with it.
  
  Graphics 10.0
  Today this graphics are poor, but when it launched it was like "WOW!"
  
  Sound 
 10.0
  The music really combine with the atmosphere.
  
  Gameplay 7.5
  The camera is horrible and the controls just OK.
  
  Fun 8.0
  The game have a lot of puzzles 
 that are quite fun to do, but sometimes you takes hours to realize what you got do just for saying 
i can't believe it was that easy...!". The battles are fun but you do not have much tipes of 
 combat combos so it's start getting boring sometimes.
  
  Replay 8.0
  After you completed it maybe you going to try one more time but believe me... After that you can 
 burry your game for a long time before playing it again...
  
  Overall 8.5
  That's a great LASTGEN game that you will remember for years, the graphics of the PC version is 
 the same of the XBOX version, but getting a XBOX or GAMECUBE version will give you more fun, trust 
 me the camera is really annoying on the PC... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lightscout_11
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 29, 2008 2:10 am PT
Review:  I haven't been impressed by a game so much since i played Republic Commando. When you play a game 
 bad graphics/gameplay/soundtrack but a good story its not a bad one. But when you have all of them 
 done good that game is amazeing. The Graphics are good for 2003, impresing some times. The gameplay 
 is rly good with all those stunts u can make and all the moves u can do during the fight. But what 
 it makes it such a masterpiece is the soundtrack and the story. The love between the prince and 
 the princess rly makes u wana play more and more until the end. To bad the game was so short. I give 
 it a 9.5 because of the controls. They are sometimes very annoyng because u jump in a wrong direction 
 or atack the wrong enemy. Anyway anyone shoud play this game even if u dont like the action - adventure 
 type of games. The wonderfull story, the impressive stunts and the great soudtrack will keep u in 
 front of your screen from the begging to the end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: suko1983
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 7, 2008 12:12 pm PT
Review:  Entertaining, excellent graphics, excellent ambient, excellent history... One of the best games 
 I've played, Prince of Persia trilogy is a "must have" and this is the frst part. There are lots 
 of puzzles to solve and enemies to defeat, jumping, climbing, swinging, a fun game. Ubisoft made 
 a good job with Prince of Persia, tranforming it from a 2d game to a 3d game. I recommend you to 
 play it, you won't be disappointed, after playing it you will go for "Warrior Within" and next 
 for "The Two Thrones" to complete the trilogy. I give this game a 9.5, Editor's Choice. Can't wait 
 for Prince Of Persia 4, surely will be fantastic. I am also waiting for the movie, there are some 
 
  previews of both Prince of Persia 4 and the movie.
  Play it and have fun!!!
  
  Suko (suko1983) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Freddy_Kruger_N
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 11, 2008 7:42 am PT
Review:  You are the Prince of Persia, your real name never being mentioned. You want glory. You fight for 
 your father and steal a magical dagger which can turn back time. Your adventure begins. You meet 
 a beautiful girl. She fights by your side. You slowly start to fall in love with her...
  The storyline is in its essence a fairytale but it is also able not to surpass the cliche/originality 
 border. The graphics are probably the best available at that time and the soundtrack is truly amazing. 
 This game keeps you intrigued and interested throughout all the stages of the story thus giving 
 you a feeling of fulfillment each time you see the fountain at which you can save you adventure.
 
  
  All in all, I believe that not playing this game is like never tasting chocolate, you can live 
 without it, but its so much sweeter living with it . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Triplep1103
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 18, 2008 6:47 pm PT
Review:  This game is an instant classic. It has entertaining combat, challenging puzzles, cool acrobatic 
 moves, and a great prince character.
  
  The trilogy starts when the prince discover a powerful dagger that can bend time. He is tricked 
 by the vizier into releasing the sands of time with the dagger. The prince escapes the sands but 
 it turns almost everyone else into beastly sand creatures. He soon meets up with Farah a girl he 
 teams up with. The Prince is the luckiest person in the world because everywhere he goes there 
 are things that he can swing, climb, grab, jump, and do a bunch of acrobatic things on. There are 
 a lot of cool areas and obstacle courses. The prince is a calm warrior that becomes more and more 
 violent as he goes on.
  
  This game is an amazing game of an amazing series. It's addictive, and will have you wondering 
 what will happen next. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chirodip_08
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 4, 2008 6:49 am PT
Review:  Its a great game, to begin with.
  The graphics are for real, the sound is like a sword on your throat and the gameplay is like nothing 
 before, believe me I know.
  The game starts with you standing on a small balcony. All you have to do is get through to the other 
 side, passing by the curtain. Thats when the fun begins!
  The game takes you to some jaw-dropping action sequences, mind-boggling puzzles and not-to-mention 
 head-scratching traps to get through with.
  In the end, (after a couple of days of playing) you'll find yourself facing the Vizier, who is actually 
 the culprit. Its easy defeating the Vizier, unlike some other bosses you'll find yourself facing 
 in this MASTERPIECE of a fantasy-action-adventure. The best thing about this game, however, is its 
 atmosphere that completely amazes you. The prince will do most of the hard work, all you have to 
 do is BE the prince himself.
  Play this game, I recommend, for your sake. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hotbodyboy_2006
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 12, 2008 12:34 pm PT
Review:  When i was a kid around 15 yrs back i was not privileged to use the "Video Game". I had a pc at 
 home and had to contend with pc games, you know the 2D ones. I used to play only one game Prince 
 Of Persia. Quite easily i can say one of the greatest 2D games ever to be made for a pc.
  
  Then came the hyped Prince Of Persia 3D which was a total Disastrous Disappointment.
  
  After 
 playing a lot of games i was bored and thought of giving up games to do something else. It was 
 a vacation and i read in some site about a NEW prince of persia game sands of time.
  
  Thought of giving it a try since i was and still am a Die Hard fan of the prince of persia. The 
 game took me by storm and brought back the interest in me. And so i started and finished all the 
 three games of this Legendary franchise.
  
  Sands Of Time is the first in the Trilogy Game. Simply put, its the game that STARTED IT ALL. Call 
 it a revolutionizer, a Trend Setter or anything, this game is a game that cannot be easily forgotten.
 
  
  The story starts of with the Prince Of Persia (unamed through the series, but in the new POP Series 
 he is rumored to be called Prince Amir) who is the young Teenager son of King Sharaman. Sharaman 
 a true King and a great Fighter and the KING OF PERSIA had just conquered the Indian Empire and 
 its the place where the prince finds the Dagger Of Time. The DOT is a key to a Hourglass which 
 has virtually Unlimited Sands. He is tricked by the vizier to unlock the Sands Of Time and thats 
 where everything starts.
  
  This game has concepts which no other games had. It introduced the first ever REWIND TIME. You 
 are just at the end of finishing a level and you die. In any normal game you would be frustrated 
 as you would have to start again. But here you can simply undo what you did and repeat what you 
 did in another way.
  
  Apart from Rewind Time there are other powers such as Slow Down Time (which inspired games like 
 God Of War) , Mega Freeze and others for you to explore.
  
  The Prince by himself is an Acrobat and does unbelievable things which only in todays world can 
 be done i think by Jackie Chan. He runs over walls, does 360 Flips and many more things. There 
 are no combos unlike the other two games (Sequels) but inspite of not having Deadly Combos and 
 Stealth Kill, this is a game which has become VERY Popular and sold million copies. Infact it is 
 rated by some gamers over the other two games also.
  
  The Graphics of this game IF YOU RUN IT in a DUAL CORE and 7600GT GeForce is absolutely MIND BLOWING. 
 Better graphics than its two sequels. But unfortunately not as Replayable as its two sequels. But 
 for a one time it gives you a great feeling.
  
  The Puzzles of this game is simply the best I have ever PLAYED leave alone the other two. The famous 
 and popular Light and Mirror puzzle has become a BENCHMARK for todays game so much that Mediocre 
 RPG Games like Dungeon Siege 2 has STRAIGHT RIPPED of the puzzle and put them in theirs LMAO.
 
  
  The Story as you may have guessed is written by the MAN who introduced us to this GREAT GREAT franchise 
 Prince Of Persia - Jordan Mechner.
  
  Overall, a must play game for every gamer in his life. This may not be the greatest game but definitely 
 one of the greats with its own concepts and unique style. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shiben
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 28, 2008 1:47 pm PT
Review:  Prince of Persia Sands of time is an action adventure game with really good adventure part and 
 really bad action part. However, the adventure part is so amazing that it surpasses the badness 
 of action. The story is simply amazing and the time control powers connect really well with it. 
 Technically the game is a little weak, graphics are not so good for its performance and sound has 
 problems mainly with mis balance between music, combat sounds and dialogs (Yes, I did turned off 
 eax, it didn't help) . But honestly graphics and sound dont matter at all in front of the interesting 
 adventure you would go for.
  
  Lets trash talk first. The combat of POP is really bad, it is not fun at all. When you find something 
 in a game with a bad game mechanic, you wish for it to get over quickly. However, POP does exactly 
 the opposite: Enemies keep spawning for you to get frustrated even more. The pathetic enemies revive 
 if you don't finish them off by your dagger, which adds to the anger. The combat only becomes simple 
 when you get a mighty sword near the end of the game with which in a single blow you can kill an 
 enemy. A game should not be called bad for its punishing difficulty but it does become bad if it 
 is difficult and boring and repetitive. Weired part is the combat of POP has an inverted graph 
 of difficulty: It is hard in the beginning and becomes much easier in the end (No it was not practice, 
 I have replayed to confirm) ... its a little odd, thats all. In any case, do not play this with 
 mouse and keyboard, you may damage your mouse. Use a PS2 controller which makes the combat much 
 less painful though the boredom and repetitiveness prevails. No escape from that.
  
  Now lets see what made me stick with this even though I am b*tching so much about the combat. The 
 fantastic connection between the story, time control gameplay, level design and adventure elements 
 makes this game a must play. The level design is simply amazing and gameplay is superb to tackle 
 the puzzles. When a new level is introduced it always feels fresh and interesting.
  
  I played this game on a 7950GX2 but I always verify old games for their performance by testing 
 on old systems. POP gfx engine has a very limited scale. But the graphics are good enough to depict 
 the fantastic artwork throughout the game. Sound has some issues, some sounds sound loud and some 
 are diminished. Dialogs especially simple don't cross my ears. These problems are not very huge 
 but it just misleads for bad production value of the game.
  
  It is really odd that the game's difficulty becomes easier near the end of the game. There are 
 more save points, your sword becomes powerful but the enemies remain the same. Puzzles becomes 
 a little complicated but not by an order. First boss is way difficult than the final boss. I find 
 this really odd, since it is against gaming theory of increasing game's difficulty since player 
 gets more and more practice.
  
  POP SOT has a very high replay value. If u survive some first levels of the game, it keeps getting 
 better and better. The end has some good amount of drama adding more stars to the wonderful story. 
 This game is recommended to everyone to play, its a wonderful adventure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smchacko
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 11, 2008 1:33 pm PT
Review:  ==== Story ====
  
  The prince is tricked into using an ancient dagger to release the "Sands of Time". Now his palace 
 is overrun with "sand" creatures and with the help of a prisoner, he must undo his mistake.
  
  ==== Review ====
  
  GOOD: The Sands of Time is simply a great game and it blew many people 
 away went it came out. It deserves all the praise that it has received. Beautiful graphics and 
 sound, innovative gameplay, tight controls and an engaging story 
  
  BAD: combat isn't very deep. It feels very repetitive, but it looks like the focus of the designers 
 was on the Environment puzzles. Also the adventure felt short.
  
  OVERALL: A game that should be played. Despite what others may say, the sequels are an improvement.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sandyqbg
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 18, 2008 11:32 am PT
Review:  This is one game which mixes both action and puzzle solving, yet keeping 
  the gameplay simple and easy to follow. In all it can be loads of fun.
  
  STORYLINE
  The 
 game begins with the prince, along with his father invade an Indian 
  kingdom, with a little inside help from the Maharaja's vizier. There they 
  Prince finds an enchanted 
 hourglass and the dagger of time. After the 
  battle is won, the Maharaja's treasures are carted off by the invaders to 
  an allied kingdom. 
 Here the vizier tricks the Prince into opening the 
  hourglass and thereby releasing the Sands of Time. The sands zombify 
  everyone except the Prince, 
 the Vizier and Farah, the Maharaja's captured 
  daughter. The Prince then sets out to right his mistake, later joined by 
  Farah.
  
  You 
 play as the Prince, armed with a sword and the dagger of time, trying 
  to reach the hourglass that has been shifted to the Tower of Dawn, 
  fighting your way through 
 the sand zombies and solving path puzzles, 
  which require you find your way from one place to another while avoiding 
  traps.
  The story 
 is presented as a narrative. While you play the game the Prince 
  narrates portions of the story, supported by cut-scenes, which actually 
  act as instructions 
 as to what should be done next. This narrative format 
  is unique to this series and is one of the features which set it apart 
  from the other games 
 in this genre.
  Though there is no dedicated tutorial in this game, but all the you need 
  to know to play it are presented as cut-scenes, narratives and most 
  importantly visual prompts 
 that are displayed at the bottom of the 
  screen. Since the controls are quite simple, it shouldn't take too long 
  to master them.
  
 Through the game, puzzle-solving and action scenes alternate. First 
  you'll have to find your way from one place to another. There won't be 
  any enemy save a few 
 zombified birds, bats or beetles at this stage. All 
  you'll have to do see what is to be done to reach that place. Whenever 
  you reach a checkpoint 
 you'll be shown a 'vision' which is actually a 
  quick show of what should be done and this is supported by cut-scenes. So 
  you'll have to go 
 from one end of a hall to another avoiding traps and 
  falls to activate the button that opens a door or rotate a set of mirrors 
  so that light is 
 focused at a particular place so that something is 
  activated and so on. You'll jumping from ledge to ledge, walking up walls 
  to reach a ledge, 
 or doing a 'wall-walk'.
  As for the action, it's intense. The action would just carry you away and 
  will have you asking 
 for more. The Prince has some great moves and it's 
  worth fighting just to see those. That's what I call real action.
  While fighting the sand zombies, 
 the Prince must first knock them out and 
  then stab them with the dagger so that they are sucked into the dagger, 
  or they'll keep getting 
 up. The dagger has other interesting uses other 
  than sucking these zombies in. For one, it can be used to slow down or 
  reverse time, but only 
 for a short period. Then again, those powers are 
  not always available. Each time you suck a zombie in, one bulb (of the 
  several that are lined 
 up to the right of the screen) will fill up and 
  each time you reverse the time, one bulb will get emptied. You can also 
  use the dagger to suck 
 in sand clouds which you might find at certain 
  places. Doing this will not only fill the empty bulbs but collecting 8 
  such sand clouds will 
 create a new bulb.
  As for enemies the AI, is aptly tuned. They behave just as would expect a 
  zombie to. All they 
 do is try to kill you, but don't underestimate them. 
  They're quite fast and when they surround you, you'll find a hard time 
  getting yourself out 
 in one piece. There is a decent variety of enemies, 
  just enough to not confuse you.
  Saving the game is through checkpoints only, which usually occur after a 
  fight scene. A whirl 
 of fiery sand is your checkpoint and you can save 
  there. However there are some sub-checkpoints. During the course of the 
  game, if you die, you'll 
 be respawned at the nearest sub-checkpoint. 
  However, if you quit the game and restart it, you'll have to start from 
  the last checkpoint 
 again. As a nifty addition, you can keep track of the 
  game completion.
  Then there's the sound. The voice-acting is done well. But what catches 
  is the background music. 
 It's simply superlative, especially during the 
  action scenes. The music actually energizes you. A good what made the 
  game so good can be attributed 
 to music, which has a Hindustani 
  feel (Though I don't know, if it IS Hindustani) to it.
  There are some drawbacks, though. Firstly the game's quite short. Just 
  when you think the game's 
 on a steady path, it comes to an end. Another 
  thing is that it can get frustrating at times. There are some places, 
  where you'll repeatedly 
 fall to death, due to a small miscalculation in 
  timing or when battling hordes of zombies, you'll die quite a few times 
  before you finally 
 pull through. Other minor drawback may be the ending, 
  which might be a slight disappointment to some, considering all that you 
  do throughout the 
 game. Another minor one is the considerable lack of 
  difficulty. It might be just too easy for some.
  
  THE VERDICT
  All in all, Prince of Persia: 
 Sands of Time is one game you wouldn't 
  wanna miss. Those 10-15 hours of gameplay which it offers will keep you 
  fully entertained.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gashoe13
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 18, 2008 12:46 am PT
Review:  This here is an example of a great game that kinda got screwed up by its fighting. The game is 
 a beautiful game, filled with adventure, romance, fighting, and enough puzzle solving to spend 
 days and weeks at.
  Ok. For starters, the graphics are interesting. Despite the fact that it was made in 2003, it holds 
 up surprisingly well to this day. The basic story is great, and I loved it! Story: 9/10 
  Sadly, I can't quite say the same about the combat. Sure, the combat isn't bad at all, it's just 
 too repetitive. You'll have a couple of vaulting and wall bounding mixed into the usual slash slash 
 slash stab attacks, but these attacks will be used over five hundered times in the course of the 
 game. I like the game, and I want to like the combat, but it doesn't quite stand up. Combat: 6/10
 
  The best part is the puzzle solving. It is surprisingly well-done. The puzzle solving elements 
 ROCK! I cannot emphasize this enough. Sometimes, you'll need to run along a wall, jump and climb 
 up on a ledge, and leap off to do a wall jump. What's surprising is that every little ledge fits 
 into the background perfectly, and that's what really impresses me on this.
  Puzzle-solving: 10/10
  Overall, you should get this game. It's a game that will stay with you 
 long after you finish it. Plus, It's bonuses aren't bad either. For example the old Prince of persia 
 level.
  Overall: 8/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AhmedYehia86
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 8, 2008 3:52 pm PT
Review:  the game is very fantastic with good graphic and sound the game play is acceptable but it will 
 be better with using gamebad its very intersiting and if you paly it you cannot stop playing its 
 the most powerful action game i was amazing with prince actions with make the playing interesting 
 and the ways which you use to kill enemy there are two many techniques two kill the enemy
  and the idea of contolling the time is very good and make the game more interesting the game also 
 depend on puzzel in many areas which make the game more exciting
  In my opinion prince of persia games (sands of time, warrior with and the two throne) are the best 
 action adventure games but they are more interesting in ps 2 or xbox than pc because in pc controlling 
 the game is more difficult and in many areas i pass them hardly due to difficulty of control them 
 by keyboard and mouse 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mirko4444
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 30, 2008 11:17 am PT
Review:  I never played the first Prince of Persia games. I have only heard of them in tales told around 
 campfires by a guy in a weird cloak. The first game was great, apparently. The second game was 
 good, except it was apparently too difficult. Prince of Persia 3D apparently ruined the series, 
 and everyone hated it. Which was a shame really, because Jordan Mechner had created something truly 
 astonishing that eventually led to the fantastic Prince of Persia game we play today.
  
  Story: 10
  
  We begin our tale with the hero Prince himself explain that his father is a royal 
 king of Persia and is attacking a city controlled by the Maharajah. We see some cool animations 
 of the Prince showing off his acrobatic moves when his father mentions a treasure vault, and a 
 strange old man pops out, apparently a traitor on the Maharajah's side. Our prince rides off and 
 dives through a large doorway as an enormous avalanche of rubble crashes down behind him.
  
  We switch to the Prince's perspective and begin our adventure, racing to get to the treasure 
 vault by killing enemies and running along walls all whilst avoiding traps. At the end of this 
 mighty crusade through the castle, we find the Dagger of Time, and return to our father, triumphant 
 in victory. That victory is short lived however, when the Prince releases the Sands of Time in 
 a giant hourglass that turns everyone except him, the strange old man and a mysterious woman into 
 sand zombies.
  
  From then on, your quest is to reach the hourglass (at the top of the tallest tower) and undo what 
 you have done. The story may seem a bit bland, but the whole inclusion of time adds in a real unique 
 sense and the story gets mighty fine as you play along. I especially enjoyed the ending though, 
 it's really good.
  
  So if you're looking for a great story, PoP is the way to go. It's exciting, mysterious, action 
 packed and riddled with twists.
  
  Graphics: 9.5
  
  You start the game looking around at your surroundings in absolute awe, and this awe lasts the 
 entire game. The graphics are stunning. Whether you are hundreds of feet in the air looking out 
 at the mountains around the tower, to a giant library with enormous bookshelves and the afternoon 
 sun shining in through enormous windows, you will not be disappointed. Every area is different 
 from the last as you traipse your way through the enormous palace trying to reach the hourglass. 
 You will be amazed as you find a new environment with traps and walls to run on, be it a prison, 
 a garden or a giant bird cage.
  
  Gameplay: 9
  
  The meat of the game, the gameplay flows into the game perfectly. You quickly find out that the 
 Prince is a very agile fellow, and you'll be wall-running, jumping, rolling and dancing around 
 enemies in no time at all. From the first time you wall-run until the final battle, the gameplay 
 is always fun and fast, as you vault over enemies, jump off walls, roll under closing doors and 
 make death-defying jumps and runs to survive. It's all very slick and lightning fast and if you're 
 not quick enough in rolling under your enemy and vaulting over him, you'll find yourself dead. 
 Wall-running and jumping along walls is also highly fun and rewarding. You'll wall-run over a pit 
 of spikes and jump at the last second to grab hold onto a stalactite (or is that a stalagmite?) 
 that suddenly shakes and snaps off pretty quickly. Put simply: if you like fats-paced, fun adventuring, 
 you'll love this game.
  
  But there are a few minor problems with the gameplay though. After a while, the battles seem sort 
 of the same, but there are often a host of various enemies to keep you occupied. Also, there are 
 often tons of enemies in an area and it is very difficult to survive, let alone fight them, as 
 you are knocked down repeatedly and slashed to death. I mentioned the game was rather fast-paced, 
 which makes it so good, but there are a few times when that pace is slowed to a crawl in the most 
 annoying places. I blame this solely on some of the puzzles and the enemy birds.
  
  I'll start with the first. You'll have just wall-run and jumped over moving spikes and rolled under 
 a near shut door after you have defeated a whole bunch of enemies, and a puzzle presents itself. 
 There may be a switch you need to pull or something you need to move to advance to the next area, 
 and they are usually very cool. When you play some of the puzzle elements in the game, you will 
 undoubtedly shake your head in wonder. It all fits so perfectly and it is so very fun. But sometimes, 
 you might miss a switch or a ladder tucked away in a corner and walk around the area for half an 
 hour wondering what the hell you're meant to do. Also, some of the puzzles can get pretty difficult 
 and annoying for non-lateral thinkers, because it is often very hard to work out what to do. But 
 otherwise, the puzzle elements are enormous fun and are a main factor of the game's 9 rating.
 
  
  The second annoyance: the birds. I'm not talking about the giant vultures that attack you in herds 
 in the game, i'm talking about tiny little birds that attack you when you're a million miles above 
 ground in packs of about 10. They RUIN the game. They slow it to a crawl as you have to wait as 
 they fly around to attack you. And if they hit you, off you fall. The game's pace is ruined by 
 these creatures, and I urge the developers to get rid of them in future games.
  
  And then there are your time abilities. Probably the coolest aspect of the game, the dagger you 
 picked up at the start lets you restart time for about 10 seconds, slow down time, freeze your 
 enemies, and if you're good enough, lets you freeze every enemy in the area while you jump around 
 in a split second killing them all instantly. You collect sand off fallen enemies and store it 
 up, using a sand "tank" each time you rewind. You will fall off a wall or miss a pole and will fall 
 to your death very often, and you're rewind ability lets you go back and change that so you survive. 
 It is the most important element of the game, because it is easy to die, and you realise how much 
 you depend on it later in the game when you are robbed of it and must finish the entire thing without 
 it.
  
  Sound: 10
  
  Brilliant. Stunning. Awesome. The music is fantastic, as it blends traditional Arabian music with 
 modern rock, bringing forth a hybrid that fits in perfectly with the game's pace and style. The 
 voice acting is very good and often very funny, as the Prince and Farah (the mysterious woman) 
 banter and argue back and forth like a married couple. And when they are separated, the Prince 
 mutters about how much she bosses him around. It is very well done and more than often very funny 
 too. The sounds of the game are perfect, with clashes and screaming as you battle enemies and take 
 their sands, water ripples and gurgles and ledges crackle as you land on them as you're climbing. 
 The game sounds fantastic, period.
  
  Replayability: 8
  
  The game is fairly short, but is very fun in that time frame. When you finish it, you may not play 
 it again for a while because it is basically a non-linear adventure game that doesn't offer up 
 to much in terms of variety a second time. However, it is cool to play the game again knowing how 
 it ends and how that, in turn, coincides with the very start of the game. Otherwise, it is the 
 same thing over again with a lack of difficulty settings to make it tougher.
  
  Fun Factor: 9
  
  The game is fun, on a whole, but can get incredibly frustrating. Sometimes, 
 enemies will surround you and kill you easily, or you might miss a ledge and plummet to your death, 
 realising you have no sand left, or you might have to fight birds. The controls are fairly simple 
 to use, but a gamepad is definitely advised. The camera can jerk around to a weird position or 
 get stuck behind something which can be annoying, but it's pretty easy to sort out. It can get 
 tense and annoying at times, but overall, this is a very fun game.
  
  Overall: 9
  
  Three words: Buy this game. You will not be disappointed. It is fun, fast paced, slick, challenging, 
 interesting and very fun. It fails in a few minor areas, but that is really nothing to what I consider 
 one of the greatest games of all time.
  
  Have fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mircea_calarasu
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 15, 2008 9:05 am PT
Review:  Prince of Persia: The Sands of Time, the latest release from developer Ubisoft, takes you to the 
 mythical Middle East for a magic carpet ride of swashbuckling sword fights and death-defying stunts 
 across a vast city full of intrigue and mystery.
  
  The story revolves around a young prince (who remains unnamed throughout the game) whose father 
 has invaded and conquered a nearby Indian (dots not feathers) Maharaja's land. While surveying 
 the spoils of war found inside the conquered Maharaja's vault, the young prince finds and takes 
 a special dagger found amidst the rest of the treasure.
  
  This dagger is actually a key to a massive, glowing hourglass containing the magical Sands of Time. 
 Later, when this hourglass is found amidst the treasures of the conquered Maharaja's vault, it 
 and many other plundered treasures are taken to a nearby city as a gift to that city's king.
  
  It is here that the young prince is persuaded by a conniving vizier to place his dagger into 
 the hourglass. This small act unleashes the devastating power of the Sands of Time, leaving the 
 entire city devastated and the majority of its PoPulation horribly mutated and zombified.
  
  Protected from the effect of the sands by the dagger he holds, the prince flees, only to find 
 Farah, the daughter of the conquered Maharaja, amidst the ruins of the city. Farah, having been 
 enslaved and made into a concubine, becomes the prince's unlikely ally.
  
  Together, they must fight against countless enemies, scale seemingly impossible ruins, avoid the 
 devious vizier, and search everywhere for the solution that will reverse the devastation that has 
 been done.
  
  The game play is much like that seen in the Tomb Raider series. There are several precipitous chasms 
 to be crossed, broken or painfully narrow ledges to traverse, and a number of daunting enemies 
 to take down. You will find a fair amount of puzzle-solving elements here and there, and some pretty 
 cool sword fighting to be engaged in as the prince makes his way through the massive and complex 
 ruins of the Indian city.
  
  Much like Lara Croft, the Prince has some serious high wire acrobatic skills to get him through 
 the perils before him. These moves would make your average Romanian gymnast green with envy. Throughout 
 the course of the game, the prince must perform some wall running across broken walkways, a lot 
 triangle jumps to waiting ropes or pressure plates, some breathtaking high bar acrobatics (we are 
 talking really high bar now, folks) , as well as a number of other moves to get him safely from 
 level to level.
  
  Occasionally, Farah and the prince will have to team up to handle certain puzzles. Examples include 
 rooms passable only by cooperative gameplay, where one of them stands on a pressure plate or hangs 
 from a release trigger to open a door for the other, who then must do the same in the next room. 
 Other puzzles consist of simple mazes or complicated machines requiring the prince to place levers 
 in a certain order so these massive devices can be activated.
  
  Interspersed between the gymnastic endeavors and puzzle-solving tasks are endless waves of enemies 
 that have to be taken down. Much of the time, players can expect to come up against several of 
 these rather large creatures at once, with more creatures respawning behind their fallen comrades. 
 Most of these creatures are former palace concubines, soldiers, or other city residents that have 
 been zombified by the Sands of Time and turned into hulking, sand-filled beasts.
  
  Yet, to the player's advantage, the prince's platform jumping skills are matched only by his fighting 
 skills. Players will find a myriad of moves available for use against enemies of any sort. Among 
 them is a nice scimitar combo for lesser enemies. The prince can also use his scimitar as an effective 
 defense against attack.
  
  There is a sweet vault move for leaping over enemies and slashing them down, though some enemies 
 can counter this move. To deal with them, a similar move has the prince leaping off walls for a 
 quick and deadly slash with his dagger. Yet another move is a dagger stab that will freeze your 
 enemies momentarily, allowing the prince to go in for an easy kill.
  
  In an interesting twist to the combat, players will find that, most of the time, the only way to 
 completely kill an enemy is a quick stab from your dagger after they go down. Otherwise, enemies 
 will just lay there for a minute, then revitalize and come at you again. This adds another dimension 
 to the fighting, as you struggle to deliver killer stabs to fallen enemies, while at the same time 
 dealing with the uninjured enemies still coming at you.
  
  Enemies will often disappear and respawn as you move your character around. This creates situations 
 where enemies are seemingly always surrounding you when fighting and makes combat seem much more 
 daunting than it really is. The truth is that most enemies are lumbering idiots, and their close 
 proximity to your character makes it all the more impressive to watch your character take out those 
 enemies in droves all at once.
  
  Should you find your life waning, you will find any nearby source of water will provide quick life 
 refreshment, as will several hidden portals found throughout the game that teleport the prince 
 to an ethereal fountain, where the prince will find his life refreshed and his life bar increased. 
 These portals are marked by wafting lace curtains accompanied by angelic music, and are usually 
 found at the end of side hallways or behind destructible walls.
  
  There are numerous save points interspersed through each level as well, with some becoming available 
 after the completion of major battles. These save points are handy, not only for the opportunity 
 to save, but also because of a brief flash-forward scene that appears at each save point. Here 
 one can view many of the up-coming obstacles and challenges and even get hints on how to overcome 
 them.
  
  By far the most handy feature for PoP's combat and acrobatic game play is your dagger's time rewind 
 ability. Should you take a fatal blow or jump to your death, one can easily reverse time back to 
 a safe spot and try again. This is definitely a useful, though limited feature, necessitating the 
 occasional replenishment of your dagger's rewind ability by either killing enemies or absorbing 
 areas of dagger energy found throughout most levels.
  
  Graphics in PoP are quite impressive and set the magical tone of the story and gameplay well. There 
 is a distinct haze in many areas, which gives a strange glow to fire and other light sources, and 
 makes for a very dream-like feel to everything.
  
  Certain ATI cards have a problem with this glow effect at the highest graphics settings. This issue 
 will make the game look like one giant blur. To fix this, simply set the graphical settings down 
 to medium. This should resolve this issue with little, if any, reduction in graphics quality.
 
  
  Your character has some very natural and lifelike animations associated with the complicated moves 
 he performs throughout the game. The prince's combat moves possess a distinct martial arts influence, 
 much like how the graceful elegance of his acrobatic moves resemble those performed by Olympic 
 gymnasts.
  
  This attention to realism grounds the game in many ways by making the fighting and acrobatic portions 
 of the game more real and certainly much more fun to watch than the stiff, cardboard cutout moves 
 you find in similar games.
  
  Sound and dialogue is another great feature of PoP. A great deal of the dialogue is surprisingly 
 funny and lighthearted, consisting of playful banter exchanged between the prince and Farah. The 
 prince also has a tendency to talk to himself quite a bit, which can be fun to listen to as he 
 attempts to quell his own feelings for the beautiful Farah, and focus on the task at hand.
  
  There are many excellent ambient sound effects in PoP. Elements like the clash of swords, the 
 constant roar of a cavernous waterfall, and the crunch of the prince's footsteps on the dusty ground 
 only deepen the quality of this game. Some nice EAX effects only richen an already exceptional 
 assortment of sounds with great echo and distance effects that complete the game's realism.
  
  Music is sporadic, but nonetheless good in a kind of eclectic way. Consisting of traditional 
 Middle Eastern music mixed with a touch of western rock guitar riffs, it is an unusual but strangely 
 appropriate score that intensifies fighting well.
  
  Prince of Persia: The Sands of Time is an excellent game, packed full with very high production 
 values and a ton of action, fun gameplay, and great story from beginning to end. Though relatively 
 short (6-10 hours) , those hours are well spent and very satisfying after all is said and done. 
 Fans of the action/adventure genre should not miss out on this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 79th_Warrior
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 21, 2008 5:26 pm PT
Review:  Prince of Persia is the game that defined how the gameplay for an entire generation of games was 
 to be referred to. When you hear of a new game that comes out you are bound to hear "it has Prince 
 of Persia style gameplay", this is both true for small unheard of games as well as big tittles 
 like Tomb raider. So yes this is the game that starts it all, even though the series has changed 
 tone since the original title, the gameplay has remained basically the same.
  
  You play as the unnamed prince of Persia on a quest to undo the sands of time and face the evil 
 vizier, in the process you are accompanied by the princess of the kingdom your army just laid waste 
 to. The story is as common as it gets, prince, princess and evil wizard. Although the layout of 
 the story is very traditional it takes you in for a very interesting and enjoyable ride, bluntly 
 put the story is a strong point for this game.
  
  The other strong point is the mechanics of prince are Persia which were really innovative when 
 it came out and the gameplay had you hooked just to be able to make it to the next save spot. What 
 you do is go around the ruins of a huge castle, crawling, wall jumping, wall walking and swinging 
 your way to the top of the citadel for your showdown with the evil wizard. To do this you have 
 to figure out how to get from point A to point B using the environment in the form of walls, ledges, 
 poles, flag poles that stick out the walls and other things. You do all this while avoiding spikes, 
 traps and of course fighting enemies. The fighting system which looked far more awesome back when 
 it came out was another very innovative aspect of the game. Its graphics are amazing especially 
 on the PC version and for today's standards it still looks good. The music is definitely memorable, 
 specially the ending song. The voice acting is also top notch.
  
  Prince of Persia shines like the best of them, but it is not without its bad points and the one 
 that sticks out the most is the lengths of the game, it is short. The fact that the game is short 
 is heightened by how good of an experience you have, making the ride feel even shorter, by the 
 end of the game you are going to wish the game and the story were far longer. Making the whole 
 experience even shorter is the fact that for the PC version the bonus features were left out, why 
 this happened its anybody guess. Any which way this game is a must play for anyone, even today!
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: blurrypixel
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 19, 2008 1:31 pm PT
Review:  What's to like:
  - Challenging puzzles
  - Very charismatic characters
  - Unique gameplay
  - Clever way to heal yourself
  - Satisfying combat
  - Good epilogue
 
  - Great game for kids
  - Great story
  - Great narration
  - Great graphics (environments and characters)
  - Great animated menus with narration system
 
  - Great views
  - Awesome animations
  - Incredible sound track
  - Perfect voice-overs
  
  What you may not like:
  - Might be too easy for some
  - Might be too short for some
  
 - Can't save a game (checkpoints system)
  - Weak last boss fight
  - Slightly linear
  - Blood-free game!
  
  Note: I strongly advise you to read Gamespot's review if you haven't 
 already.
  
  
  Story - Sands of time
  
  Don't get me wrong, it's not because I believe the game is great for kids that it isn't for us. 
 More the opposite, it is even more refreshing for us.
  
  You can see this game like a Disney / Pixart movie where kids will like and adults will understand 
 the more subtle parts of it.
  
  There is constant narration also in this game. The Prince actually shares his thoughts about the 
 different encounters and events he faces. Those really help you feel part of the story.
  
  
  
  Game - Puzzles and sword fights
  
  We get to play the Prince whose athletic and acrobatic 
 skills are simply unmatched.
  
  Basically, you will have to make your way through levels by jumping, running off walls and climbing 
 / swinging ropes. The challenge in each is to pay attention on how to reach your destination. Sometimes 
 how to get there isn't that obvious and will require you to use the free camera and study your 
 surroundings.
  
  Thankfully, the Prince has some sort of sand canisters. Each one of them allows you to "go back 
 in time" a few seconds giving you another chance to be successful without having to reload the 
 game. This is a great design as you won't spend so much time figuring out how to go ahead.
  
  If you ever run out of sand, reloading (Retry) is actually fast.
  
  When you aren't trying 
 to solve the architectural puzzles, you are fighting "sand monsters".
  
  The combat system is rather intuitive and very satisfying. Though the options aren't in abundance, 
 the sword fights are great looking as you can jump over your enemies, use the walls to strike through 
 them or try a roundhouse kick.
  
  All this happens in a very smooth and fluid motion.
  
  After a few fights, you will get to find what works (or not) against the different types of 
 enemies (ex.: you can't jump over some of them) .
  
  
  Conclusion - A must have
  
  If you wonder if you should get this game after so many years, do NOT hesitate and go get it now, 
 you simply won't regret it.
  
  Side note: I had some trouble finding this game in retail stores. I ended buying it through a direct 
 download service, so you might need to o the same. It's very inexpensive as well.
  
  9.1/10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: averywhite
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 7, 2007 1:04 pm PT
Review:  Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet 
 Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet 
 Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet 
 Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet 
 Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet 
 Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet 
 Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet 
 Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet 
 Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet 
 Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet 
 Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet 
 Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet 
 Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet 
 Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet 
 Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet 
 Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet 
 Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet 
 Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet 
 Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet 
 Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet 
 Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet 
 Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet 
 Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet 
 Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet 
 Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet 
 Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet 
 Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet 
 Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet 
 Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet 
 Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet 
 Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet 
 Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet 
 Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet 
 Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet 
 Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet 
 Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet 
 Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet 
 Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet 
 Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet 
 Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet 
 Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet 
 Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet 
 Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet 
 Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet 
 Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet 
 Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet 
 Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet 
 Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet 
 Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet 
 Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet 
 Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet 
 Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet 
 Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chilipepperman
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 18, 2007 1:54 pm PT
Review:  prince of Persia: the sands of time is a good game, but not a great one. the graphics are definitely 
 not bad, but this game was made in 2003, so you cant expect much. the game play is very fun at 
 times, but can get VERY repetitive. the monsters are really stupid, but the only way they win against 
 you is in numbers. the strongest part of this game is the ability to do so much with the environment. 
 you can swing off rods, climb trees, wall run, wall jump, jump between walls, and many more. another 
 fun part to the game is the swords. the sword moves are really fun to fight with, but do get repetitive 
 because you use the same moves for each sword. this is good, but im looking forward to a more bad 
 ass, darker Warrior Within 
::::::

::::::
UserName: filaria
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 11, 2007 8:42 am PT
Review:  I played this after completing warrior within so it was basically a breeze, well the game is pretty 
 much easy. In comparison to the other two titles this game has very few combos, simpler traps, fewer 
 bosss fights and easier enemies to beat.
  
  Sands of Time however offered a very linear experience, it would make you go through a series of 
 traps or puzzles n just before the save point would throw 20 some enemies at you in waves of 4-5. This 
 however isnt all that difficult but did tend to get irritating after sometime though the game. It 
 had me go 'how much more?!?!?'Especially due lack of almost 90% combos present in the other 2 titles.
 
  
  Nonetheless this game was fun... the puzzles, the acrobatics, the music, the story everything just 
 suited the atmosphere of the game. Especially the music .The story however made more sense at the 
 end but was original no cliches or nethin.
  
  Ofcourse the best part of the game was controlling time and the featire of freezing enemies with 
 the dagger of time was pretty fun including the mega freeze.
  
  There are only 2 boss fights in the game. The first boss offers nothing n the final boss, the vizier, offers 
 3 clones n a lot of coughed up blood. The charcters looked great though cartoonish. Well in comparison 
 to the latter 2 titles n the characters in em cough*kaileena*cough, this game does look a lot less 
 mature. Even Farah's bathing scene is nothing when u see what warrior within potrays.
  
  Saving games were in sand portals or vortex rather than water fountains but still water only cud 
 regenerate ur health. In typical POP fashion u get to use new swords as u progress through the game.
 
  
  The most annoying moment in the game was when i had to fight off bats while hangin off a ledge. Thet 
 dont hurt much but will easy make u loose ur grip... darn freakin critters!!!
  
  The graphics were good with the crisp lighting effects, though the blood effects were really badly 
 done n everytime u hd to use the dagger to suck the sands out of ur foes.
  
  This is the shortest game in the series but offers a fun n quite easy experience but falls flat 
 in comparison to the features in ww n t2t's repertoire. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LoJo10
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 5, 2007 3:23 pm PT
Review:  Prince of Persia is a great, puzzle game with a lot of good repetitive swordplay.
  
  You have a sword, and you kill bad guys. You can rewind time after they kill all your health, and 
 come back to life. Also, you can come back to life after you fall off a huge cliff.
  
  The prince is an extremely acrobatic character. You can run across walls, like they do in the matrix, 
 run up walls - it feels cool.
  
  The storyline is okay, probably better than average - when you beat the game, you're pretty shocked 
 at how it ends - and you wish there was more.
  
  Overall, for the $10 you could get it for, it's worth it.
  
  It's about ten or eleven hours 
 of gameplay.
  
  Worth a purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _EradicatoR_
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 29, 2008 3:30 am PT
Review:  The game is certainly a masterpiece. This is the first game that I played from start to the end 
 and I can definitely say that it grows on you and is very addictive. The game made me a fan of 
 the series and the genre because It has everything that a good game needs i. e a good storyline, 
 graphics, great soundtracks and a good gameplay. You can perform gravity-defying stunts and kill 
 your enemies in the most unusual of ways. Its a must buy for everyone.
  
  Story:
  "Most people say that time is like a river that flows swift and sure in one direction. But I've 
 seen the face of time and I can tell you, they are wrong. Time is an ocean in a storm. You may 
 wonder who I am or why I say this. Sit down, and I will tell you a tale like none of which you 
 have ever heard........."
  
  Our young and ambitious hero unravels his journey from this game. The story begins in the medieval 
 period after the prince and his father have killed the Maharaja when our hero finds a dagger which 
 mysteriously unleashes the sands of time that transforms the inhabitants of the kingdom into sand 
 demons. The Prince's aim is clear, he has to rectify his own mistake and change everything back 
 to how it used to be......
  
  A decade and a half back the 2D Prince of Persia became really popular and dazzled the players 
 and the 3D one does the same, actually it makes it even better. Even though the battles are a bit 
 to simple, the puzzles are mind boggling and require a lot of thinking though, you won't find yourself 
 struggling to get out of a place because all you need to do is to concentrate on the situation 
 and apply your mind accordingly...... a bit of luck does help always. The prince has a variety of 
 moves which defy gravity like running along wall large distances, jumping from pillar to pillar, 
 swinging from bars, running horizontally up the wall and may more. The classic combos that the 
 Prince performs make the game even more exciting and thrilling, like the slow down time power, 
 replaying a particular situation, bouncing from walls and killing multiple enemies at once etc.
 
  
  As I mentioned that the battles were a bit too easy there were some moments during these enemy 
 battles were the only times in Prince of Persia that I found to be frustrating. It wasn't the fault 
 of the gameplay mechanics as it was an incredibly enjoyable feature of the game. However, there 
 were times when gigantic enemies that were too large and skilled to spring over would surround 
 the Prince and the camera would pop over to a very unfavorable angle, such as behind a pole or 
 wall. The game has a couple of bosses (Prince's father who is also infested by the sands of time 
 and the Vizier) both are easy to beat though the not-so-good camera angles, as I said, made these 
 easy battles a bit tedious.
  
  The Graphics and the environments are drop dead gorgeous which is the biggest plus point to this 
 game. The calm and beautiful surroundings really astounded me when I played the game. Plus, the 
 great soundtracks that play in the background are spell bounding are soothing which really adds 
 to the excellence of this game.
  
  All in all, I think, this game is a great start to the trilogy and sets high expectations from 
 the other two games of the series. Its a must buy for all POP lovers, so if you haven't yet played 
 the game then go get a copy and start your journey. Its my guarantee that you'll like it.
  
  ...........................
  
  Pros: Great Graphics, Soundtracks and game play
  Cons: 
 Too easy and short 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hoihoi8
Rating: 4.5
Date: Sep 9, 2007 6:49 pm PT
Review:  2007: At 4 years old, Prince of Persia does not hold up well at all. The graphics and animations 
 are the best part of this game.
  
  Everything else is ruined by the Terrible controls. Here are a few of the problems
  
  -Camera 
 switching instantly, making you move the wrong way
  -performing the wrong special moves over and over on walls
  -slow response for the reverse feature 
 causes all sorts of issues, like double tapping, wasting your sand, and screwing you out of reverse 
 time
  -Combat controls are atrocious. Hard to move away from an enemy because you stay looked on.
  
 -The game often chooses the wrong enemy to perform an attack on
  -Hard to choose which enemy you want to attack off a wall attack
  
  I only rate this game Hard, 
 because it is hard to get your character to move the way you want him to. I can't count the number 
 of times I've cursed at the game because it doesn't do what you want. Combat is desperately boring 
 and tedious. The puzzles sections barely save this game from getting thrown in the garbage. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Star_Wars117
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 6, 2007 8:21 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: A mix of platforming and a action adventure game. Kill this kill that jump around and 
 slow down time. Not much to see our do except move straight thro a dull story from start to finish. 
 Fun for about 30 minutes then goes down hill quick.
  
  Graphics: Actually pretty good for a game made in 2003. Could be up to par with budget title graphics 
 of 2007. Good Animations and blurs when speed has been slowed down. Detailed enviroments. Charcters 
 are not the prettyest thing to look at.
  
  Sound: The soundtrack is mostly instrumental music. Sounds claning, dieing enemies yelling, Talking. 
 Good goice acting for the prince. Overall good sound,
  
  Value: The game is 10 bucks, But you can also download it free from fileplanet now since Ubisoft 
 released it with popup ads.
  
  The Good: Good sound and voice acting, Detail of enviroments
  
  The Bad: Bad graphics and dull 
 story.
  
  The Ugly: Stupid AI, Crashes, Overall Very boring game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: majesticcryx
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 1, 2007 3:31 am PT
Review:  If my long history of playing contemporary games starring characters created during the Reagan 
 era has taught me anything, its this: Bottling the magical essence of what makes a classic game 
 work is a delicate art.
  
  Take that triple-jointed Arab acrobat, the star of 1989s Prince of Persia, for example: He runs, 
 jumps, flips over spikes, and ultimately gets laid because hes a gymnast. So whats the difference 
 between him and Lara Croft? Its more than just the frilly blouse.
  
  The secret ingredient is grace, a trait thats profoundly missing from 2000s oafish Prince of 
 Persia 3D, but returns as a salient commodity in the Princes latest adventure, The Sands of Time. 
 Ubisofts Montreal studio has done what few developers could accomplish  distilled the 2D games 
 fluid elegance, ingenious puzzles, and simple control mechanics, while cross-engineering its spirit 
 into a lush 3D epic adventure.
  
  In Sands, you are the Prince, a likeable young doppelganger to Disneys Aladdin. Eager to please 
 your royal father, you recklessly assist in conquering an Indian maharajah, liberating the mystical 
 Dagger of Time in the process  and accidentally unleashing evil sand from an evil sand hourglass 
 that turns nearly everyone in the kingdom into an evil sand zombie.
  
  The journey to recovering the hourglass is a beautifully orchestrated workout thatll see you effortlessly 
 dash sideways across walls, flip gracefully between flagpoles, and balance precariously on wooden 
 beams high in the sky. Levels are titanic in size, graphically superb, and well-designed to show 
 off your acrobatic abilities and creative puzzle-solving. Theres nothing more satisfying than 
 coming to a seeming dead-end and reasoning your way past it with a few well-timed wall-jumps and 
 death-defying leaps.
  
  Now, anyone whos ever played the original Prince of Persia knows that unexpected, sudden death 
 due to traps is routine, and although Sands is thankfully less cheap in this respect than its predecessors, 
 mishaps do happen. So instead of making you reload after every pitfall, Ubisoft has invented an 
 elegant solution: You can use the Dagger of Time to rewind up to 10 seconds of gameplay. Whether 
 you mistimed a jump or were stabbed in the back by a zombie, you can turn back time at the push 
 of a button (with a limited number of charges, of course) . Trust me, playing video games without 
 a Dagger of Time is for suckers.
  
  Joining you in your quest is the maharajahs daughter, Farah, an AI-controlled character who forges 
 an uneasy alliance with the Prince. Their interaction is the crown jewel of the games design. 
 She helps by fitting into tight places where the Prince cant, and by slinging a bow in combat; 
 conversely, she banters with adorable ferocity and gasps loudly whenever you suddenly lose your 
 footing.
  
  Sands further shines due to its stunning 3D graphics, detailed character designs, and intricately 
 realistic animations that put it on par with a Pixar film.
  
  But for all its polish and general excellence, the game suffers from some ill-conceived design 
 choices. First, theres combat. Initially fun, the battle sequences quickly wear out their welcome 
 by presenting wave after wave of magically teleporting zombies that mob at any opportunity (especially 
 as you try to escape for a quick sip of health-giving water) . In close quarters, camera angles 
 drift behind the flowing tapestries and pillars, blocking your view. The worst part is that Sands 
 uses a save-point system  and wouldnt you guess it, save beacons materialize only after youve 
 destroyed every last zombie.
  
  Another consideration is that Sands doesnt support gamepads, only the keyboard and mouse, which 
 is strange for a cross-platform release. On the plus side, it performed flawlessly right out of 
 the box, free of even a single audio glitch that might mar the excellent music and voice-overs. 
 Itll just take some patience to slog through the exhausting combat sequences so you can hear them. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1_2_3lion
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 31, 2007 9:43 am PT
Review:  from the best game i have ever seen it is from the best of the best acuttlly it is some old but 
 it is allways good and with nice graphics try it promis me you wont lose something it is from the 
 best game i have ever seen before the story that you are the prince and you and your country attaceed 
 an other country with mighty army then you go defat some enemys then you must get a dagger with 
 a mestrious power that can control time slow down time and even revivel time and much more.... 
 then after you escape from the place that you found the dagger you come to the castel and there 
 is a movie to see .. see the film it is that jaffar is here with your father (the king) and there 
 is a tank that contain sands of time and a evil curse jaffer knew that but every body else did 
 not so he say to them that it is good and have a power that may change the earth into a beutifull 
 dream but it is not it is a night mear and that tank can be only be opened by the dagger so unfforntly 
 the prince blived what he say and opend the sands of time now the earth cracked and every body 
 changed into monsters expet the prince and an another woman .... i think that is enough download 
 the demo to try it and belive me ..... good luck.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gauravfox
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 19, 2007 7:27 am PT
Review:  Prince of Persia-Sands of time is one of the coolest in its kind... this episode is a perfect single 
 person adventure game. The game play is pretty cool with 5-7 hours of game play for a pro n about 
 10-15 hours of game play for a novice. The learning curves is not a problem at all, in fact u can 
 get to know the controls in just a few test moves. The graphics are the main attraction..! the environment 
 is smooth n perfect n needs no heavy graphic support. The prince is kinda cool to look at, but a 
 little brawn would have been better..! The athletic moves are something which u can look out for... The 
 music n audio effects are good. The game is challenging n i would recommend everyone to get a shot 
 of this.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bhaskarchatta
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 26, 2007 11:49 pm PT
Review:  Heard a lot about this game previously... Then played in my friends house... Now a days I am just 
 eagar to get the same for my self... love to play the game for hours... it's really good and great.. 
 the graphics sound is great... it's a game with positive sense behind the game... It's learning 
 also during playing.... I am going to buy this game Prince of Persia: The Sands of Time for me 
 too.... and to all the friends here it's a advice to all of you just go playing. It got a view 
 which give you a thinking that you are just going through a story book. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oonge
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 20, 2007 10:39 am PT
Review:  A classic that set the ball rolling for the prince series. Really brought back that spark in the 
 franchise.
  The story of the game is well told in a lovely fairy tale sort of way. An absolute outright favorite 
 in the game would be the moves that the prince can pull off. Freezing your opponents then smashing 
 them to bits looks pretty good. Something they should consider carrying on in their later games. 
 Then there is the ultimate, reversing time, a great way to get out of tight spots and undo wrongs 
 done. This is the one thing that would set the prince franchise apart from other games and keep 
 it remembered for eons to come. On the down side, umm yeah, nothing coming there. But one minor 
 thing, could he not just keep running around with his swords unsheathed?
  All in all its a must have for everyone. For those who havent played the later prince releases 
 like warrior within and two thrones, try starting with this one. That way you will get the complete 
 story line 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _iMMuNiTy_
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 17, 2007 1:49 am PT
Review:  Most people think time is like a river, that flows swift and sure in one direction. But I have 
 seen the face of time. And I can tell you... they are wrong. Time is an ocean in a storm. You may 
 wonder who I am or why I say this. Sit down, and I will tell you a tale like none of which you 
 have ever heard. 
  
  And thus begins the tale of the Prince of Persia, son of King Sharaman. The game begins with an 
 elegantly stylish pre-rendered cut-scene, of which there are few in the game, and as a result, 
 you appreciate it when you see one. At other times, you will see non-pre-rendered cut-scenes that 
 you cannot skip unless you've seen them before, e. g. if you died and are watching the same cut-scene, 
 you can skip it.
  
  The story itself starts when King Sharaman passes through India on his way to Azad, and he and 
 his army storm a city with the promise of honor and glory. They plan to succeed with the help of 
 a vizier who betrayed the Maharajah of India, and asked for nothing but treasure of his own choice 
 in return for his allegiance.
  
  As for gameplay, it has three faces - daring acrobatics both outdoors and indoors (reminiscent 
 of the increasingly popular Le Parkour) , evasion of various inventive traps and, of course, swordfights. 
 On top of those three, the Prince gains the ability to manipulate time when he acquires the Dagger 
 of Time. At first, you're introduced to each of the aforementioned, but eventually you see a combination 
 of all of the above. The player is saved from repetition as some elements of all three are not 
 introduced until a lot later in the game, for example, you gain a new sword three times in the 
 game, each more powerful than its predecessor. The stunts that the Prince performs would make Jackie 
 Chan jealous - you climb columns and jump from one of them to another, you side-walk on narrow 
 ledges, shimmy on them, swing on flagpoles, wallrun and more. Unfortunately, this does not offer 
 the amount of freedom it should, because you do not make your own way around the obstacle by using 
 the environment to your advantage, but follow the line of columns, ledges, horizontal poles to 
 swing on, etc. that the developers have placed, so it's pretty linear. Fun, to be sure, but linear.
 
  
  Lara Croft would definitely quit if she saw what traps the Prince must evade. Nearly every trap 
 is not only rotating, but moving, as well! The traps provide a fun challenge, as some of them are 
 not only placed on the floor, but on the wall, as well. There are rotating saws, rotating spike 
 columns, animated mechanical swords, swinging spike clubs...
  
  While the Prince is more agile and capable than a circus acrobat, he's everything but impressive 
 in combat. Due to his small arsenal of combat moves, swordfights may become tedious relatively 
 quick for some. It doesn't help that you have to finish off sand monsters with the dagger, or they 
 will get back up, which can be frustrating, as the Prince locks onto an enemy, and there is no 
 way to switch between the enemies aside from attacking whilst directing the Prince to the desired 
 enemy, which doesn't always work for fallen enemies. Sometimes, another enemy will obstruct the 
 fallen one, or you will be swept off your feet by your enemy before you can finish off the fallen 
 sand creature.
  
  Time manipulation, of course, is one of the, if not the biggest attraction of the game. You are 
 able to rewind time by 10 seconds, and you can cheat death, undo the damage brought to you, correct 
 a mistake that may have sent you to the beginning of an obstacle course , and so on and so forth. 
 You cannot rewind cut-scenes however, nor killing an enemy. The Dagger of Time grants other abilities, 
 such as slowing down time, even though you're slowed down significantly, as well. Aside from time 
 manipulation, you can also freeze your enemies, either one or all of them, which exhausts the dagger 
 entirely. Killing them while they're frozen will not grant you sands to replenish the dagger's 
 Sands of Time, however, which fuel the dagger's astounding feats.
  
  It is worth mentioning that in this game you have a companion whom you have to protect. Fortunately, 
 she has a decent amount of health and she's not attacked often (as long as you draw attention and/or 
 fight farther away from her) . Unfortunately, she's a lousy archer and can hit you if you get into 
 her line of fire. Personally, I've thoroughly enjoyed having her as a side-kick, since there's 
 a lot of humorous dialogues between her and the Prince, and they become infatuated with each other 
 (the Prince becomes infatuated with her, at least) , which adds some variety to the otherwise bland 
 and dull lone-wolf adventure.
  
  The graphics might not be ground-breaking, but the level-design is admirable, landscapes gorgeous, 
 and the environments quite believable. The game has bloom, and it is perhaps one of the few games 
 that has bloom that is not only not annoying, but very well implemented. There are also tiny details, 
 such as throughout the game, the Prince rips off his torn clothes until he's bare-chested (a clear 
 discrimination against guy gamers, because his sidekick doesn't rip clothes off) , and then there 
 are such special effects as when the fallen sand creatures are sucked into the dagger after turning 
 into sand.
  
  All in all, the game is an excellent reintroduction of the older Prince of Persia games by Jordan 
 Mechner. It sticks to the nature of those 2D games, yet offers new and interesting content that 
 other games have not delved into. The written dialogue is often witty and entertaining, voice acting 
 is pretty good, the music fits the atmosphere, and the story captivates the player and drives him/her 
 forth. Interestingly, this is only the beginning of what is a trilogy, yet the game has great closure 
 - so if the game left you yearning for more, you can play the other two games, but if for any reason 
 you decide not to, you can leave it at that - The Sands of Time does not leave any loose ends. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dark_prince2007
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 17, 2007 6:41 am PT
Review:  Publisher Ubisoft brings us the next official installment in the legendary Prince of Persia series 
 with Prince of Persia: The Sands of Time for the PC. Play as an acrobatic Prince who can run on 
 walls, swing off poles, jump and flip, and much, much more. Using the Sands of Time, players can 
 slow, stop and even reverse the flow of time to their advantage. Wield several different powerful 
 swords and do battle with magical enemies on your mission to restore order to ancient Persia. Scale 
 dangerous heights as well as avoiding traps like spikes, wall-blades and more. Is one of the best 
 game on adventure. Ubusoft continues the Prince of Persia, with the Prince of Persia: Warrior Within, and 
 The Two Thrones.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wolverine_r
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 11, 2007 1:14 pm PT
Review:  The original Prince of Persia is regarded as a classic by many gamers. It was known for its awesome 
 puzzles, the protagonists incredible acrobatics and unforgiving difficulty. Prince of Persia: 
 The Sands of Time, the latest offering in the Prince of Persia series developed by Ubisoft Montreal 
 keeps the puzzles and acrobatics intact but greatly reduces the level of difficulty and now the 
 game is accessible to almost anyone, even if he/she is not already interested in this type of action-adventure 
 gaming.
  
  The first thing that has to be said about Sands of Time is how immersive the story is. In the beginning 
 of the game, the prince (whom you will be playing as) steals the Dagger of Time apparently for 
 honor and glory and the evil Vizier tricks him into using the dagger to unlock the Sands of Time 
 which is a huge hourglass which spills all its sands into the castle and turns everyone into mysterious 
 sand zombies. The only survivors are you, a young girl called Farah and the vizier. Your aim is 
 to undo the wrong you have done in unlocking the sands of time and thwart the viziers plans. The 
 game opens up when the prince says something like, Sit down and you will hear a tale like none 
 other and from then on the whole story seems like the prince is retelling it to someone and this 
 kind of narrative technique keeps you gripped from beginning to end and needless to say, the story 
 is very good.
  
  The aforementioned dagger of time has a variety of uses that are neatly integrated into the gameplay. 
 The most important is reversal or rewinding of time. The dagger allows you to rewind time when 
 you have made a mistake in the game. For example, if you mistime a jump that leads to your death 
 or some of the enemies take a chunk out of your health, then you simply rewind using the dagger 
 to a safe position and replay the game from there. This is very important because some of the battles 
 and puzzles can get frustrating at times. However, there is a catch; the amount of rewinds is not 
 unlimited. You have a number of sand tanks that start emptying when you rewind. You have to refill 
 these tanks by collecting sands from your enemies dead-bodies or sand holes that are placed on 
 the ground at often convenient locations using the dagger. The other use of the dagger is to slow 
 down time which makes your enemies slower but I found myself using this trick quite sporadically 
 throughout the game but it can be a life-saver when surrounded by enemies and in some of the games 
 harder puzzles. Apart from these two tricks you can also the use it to freeze enemies during combat 
 and then kill them, which is especially helpful later in the game.
  
  Combat in the game controls very well using a standard keyboard and mouse combination and is very 
 rewarding early on when you are getting to grips with it but later on it just becomes monotonous 
 and can lead to some frustrating moments but is still good and well implemented overall. Apart 
 from the dagger, the prince has a very big sword which is used to kill enemies. The princes breathtaking 
 acrobatics is also put to use during combat, you can vault from walls onto your enemies or vault 
 over them and the combination of these two moves is quite effective and leads to some satisfying 
 kills. Farah is present at most times during combat, though she is more of a liability than a help 
 and while she has a bow and an unlimited supply of arrows herself, you will find yourself trying 
 to save her more often than not because the game automatically ends when she dies. Your primary 
 enemies in the game are the sand creatures though they vary in sizes and also carry different weapons; 
 they are basically very slow and often converge on you in groups but still can be easy to take 
 out because of the aforementioned acrobatic skills and speed of the prince. The sands have to be 
 removed from these sand creatures otherwise they will come at you again. That is where the combat 
 becomes frustrating and repetitive later on in the game where the larger sand zombies will basically 
 attack you in large numbers and killing them and retrieving their sands can become frustrating 
 and you will want to just beat them and move on and this saps out the fun you get from combat early 
 on in the game.
  
  The puzzles form the brunt of the game and are its most rewarding portion also. The game starts 
 off with standard puzzles where you pull the lever in one place and reach the door in another place 
 after overcoming a variety of obstacles but become increasingly difficult as you progress through 
 the game. The reason for the obstacles being the fact that the prince helps in setting up the castles 
 defense system quite early in the game and this system is unforgiving with its set of spikes, rotating 
 knives and so on. The princes acrobatics plays a major part in the puzzles; you will vault from 
 wall to wall, cross holes on the floor by running across walls and reach places that are normally 
 out of reach and as you progress through the game you will find newer ways of putting these tricks 
 to use to overcome the puzzles. Farah is more useful during puzzles than combat and she can go 
 through cracks in the wall which you cannot reach and pull levers to get you to other places and 
 so on and this kind of co-working between you and her makes some of the puzzles more interesting 
 and you will feel really satisfied when you actually figure out some of the harder puzzles in the 
 game.
  
  The Sands of Time scores above all other games especially because of its presentation. The graphics 
 are very middle-eastern and the whole game has a yellow glow which reminds one of the fact that 
 the sands of time has engulfed the castle and left an yellowish haze on it. Even though you traverse 
 the same castle throughout the game the environments are really diverse and well detailed and you 
 will move from corridors, to caverns with lush green grass and amazing waterfalls to tombs and 
 what not. Though some areas do repeat, all of them look great on the eye and that is great given 
 that the game is almost 4 years old now. The character models all look great especially the prince, 
 the vizier and Farah. Little effects like when you see the prince come out of water, it will drip 
 all over from his dress help in making the game more enjoyable. You will get used to seeing the 
 same model of sand creatures after some time into the game but these are also greatly done. Most 
 of the in-game cut-scenes are presented using the graphics engine but a few more important ones 
 are done as great videos and these do a wonderful job of helping in story progression. In spite 
 of a few rough edges here and there in the form of some clipping issues and repetitive enemy models, 
 the graphics really get the job done in adding another level of immersion to the game.
  
  Audio and sound presentation in the game is as good as the graphics if not better. Sounds of footsteps 
 when you run across walls, metal clanking when you hit a wall or meet an enemy sword and enemy 
 sounds are incredibly detailed and wonderfully done. The music is really awesome and, though like 
 the graphics is very middle-eastern, it is great to hear and there are a variety of tracks that 
 never get repetitive. The high-tension music that kicks in during a few difficult battles deserves 
 special mention and you will feel your pulse quicken because of it. The voice-acting is top-notch 
 especially for the games main characters of the prince, Farah and the vizier. The prince has a 
 soft yet powerful voice which you immediately relate to his nature and the vizier packs an evil 
 voice and overall the voice acting is really well done. The amazing voice talent also lends a lot 
 of personality to the game and some of the dialogues between the prince and Farah really help establish 
 the tension in their relationship and the prince will sometimes mutter to himself and overall you 
 will find yourself caring more for the prince as you move through the game.
  
  The game follows a basic pattern of puzzle  combat  save and this pattern continues till the 
 end. Even when you die in the middle of a puzzle you are not ported back to the last save location 
 instead to only the beginning of that portion of the puzzle and this reduces the frustration one 
 would have felt otherwise. Each save location also gives you minor visions of future puzzles and 
 combat and how to tackle them and makes the game quite easy actually. If you are stuck in a puzzle, 
 all you have to do is replay the vision to see where you go wrong and again speaks of the games 
 high accessibility. Even though sometimes these saves are very near and sometimes quite far, it 
 is still a really well implemented system.
  
  The only major gripe one can have with this PC version of the game is that the camera can be a 
 pain sometimes. The standard third person perspective is well done and it switches to a kind of 
 isometric perspective during the puzzles but sometimes during combat when the screen is really 
 crowded you will have to fumble with direction keys to get the prince to point in the right direction 
 and this can be hindering at times and is a minus in an otherwise highly polished game. The other 
 things one can nitpick about are the repeating enemy models and how later on, tons of enemies will 
 be thrown at you to increase the difficulty level but these in no way reduce the quality of a truly 
 outstanding game.
  
  It will take you about 12-16 hours to finish the Sands of Time depending on your skill in grasping 
 all the techniques and implementing them in combat and puzzles. The game does not have any replay 
 value at all since by the time the game ends all your skills will be well honed and there are not 
 enough special extras to keep you coming back. Still, Prince of Persia: The Sands of Time is a 
 lesson in action-adventure gaming from Ubisoft with its wonderful story, awesome presentation in 
 both the graphics and sound departments and forgiving difficulty and should not be missed by anyone 
 at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Don_Shadio
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jun 1, 2007 7:42 pm PT
Review:  Sands of Time is set somewhere in the middle ages probably, though when I look at the in game gigantic 
 structures, I wonder if were in the past or in the future. The story is simple; our handsome prince 
 is tricked into unleashing the sands of time which results in utter chaos. Now he must undo everything. 
 Maybe its a tradition or something but our prince cannot be in the game if there wont be any 
 princess, so its princess Farah who makes sure our prince doesnt get lonely and later in the game, 
 their relationship gets better and better =D.
  
  The graphics of the game our nice and smooth, the environment is well made, the structures are 
 jaw dropping, and dropping down from the ledge is one thing you would never wanna do. The sound 
 tracks are nice and keep you up, change when the enemies approach so you dont have to keep a lookout 
 for new enemies, just pay heed to the music. Though there are so many moves that you can use to 
 wipe of your enemies, I realized that the best way to kill them was to get along a wall and attack 
 (dont remember the name of attack, but the prince shoots himself in the air like a spear) and 
 just as the enemy is down, stab it with your dagger. Do this and all of them will be dead before 
 you even know it, but if you fancy a long battle, well its up to you.
  
  The game is full of puzzles, most of them are very simple but a couple near the end proved to be 
 the most troublesome, especially the one where you have to go behind the correct veil, only to 
 end up finding Farah swimming. As the game is based on TIME so like very other thing which has 
 time travel, whether a movie or series w/e, you always end up with finding some flaws in the time 
 line, ah but who cares, the game is good, the ending is pretty nice and it will wrap up in less 
 than 10 hours if youre good at puzzles, and btw, the price doesnt need any food to survive, just 
 water is more than enough. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ivory_soul
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 23, 2007 1:51 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Nice graphics for it's time, one of the most original stories to sweep consoles, smooth 
 and tight control, excellent level and puzzle design, nice voice acting
  
  The Bad: Combat system is too shallow, Can beat campaign in less then 10 hours, not terribly challenging, 
 Due to it's age all the flaws stick out like a sore thumb, Keyboard and mouse controls just don't 
 work with this type of game, only supports one type of gamepad (unless you use a game profiler)
 
  
  First off let me just say this... play the console versions. The PC controls just don't work as 
 well as the analog sticks. The PC controls can really drag the experience down because PoP requires 
 full 360 degree turning and that's kind of hard with four keys. With that aside PoP 1 was 2003's 
 GotY for a good reason. With one of the best stories in gaming history and gameplay that set the 
 standard for future action/adventure games PoP 1 will amaze you. Of course with now-a-days games 
 its not as impressive as it used to be and the flaws really stick out like a sore thumb, but it 
 is still a great classic you annoy can really play. Being extremely short (you can beat it in less 
 then 10 hours) its good for a quick weekend rental or something to pick up in the bargain bin. 
 If you love this game then by all means play the second and third because they just get better 
 and better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aliendrone
Rating: 10
Date: May 17, 2007 11:11 pm PT
Review:  I love this game , my friend give me warrior within and sands of time , over 2 weeks , and well 
 i play the sands of time first , and he say me the ww is better for the combos and graphics , and 
 i say well but i want start from the beginning , and i fall in love of this game , the characters 
 , the funny moments of the prince &amp; princess , and the love moments ^_^ .When the i finish 
 the game , i felt sad xD , but well , i don't like to much the WW after playing this piece of ART 
 ! =) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sharier
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 9, 2007 4:29 am PT
Review:  My bond with the Prince game dates back to 1992 -- when I played a complete PC game for the first 
 time and when I was left bewildered with the storyline, suspense and the eagerness to know what 
 next? . So when the Sands of Time came out, I wasted no time in getting my hands on it. When I 
 started the game, it was amazement all anew. I was waiting to see the Prince in 3D and wow what 
 an opening it is. The standard of the graphics, even today, stays top-notch.
  The trouble started soon after I started playing the game. Its the same old Lara Croft perspective 
 problem. I can't measure jumps properly due to visual blockage, and in Prince games jumping is 
 as important as charging your sword. As I proceeded deeper into the game and started swinging my 
 sword against many enemies, I realised my actions were more haphazard than intended. Again, this 
 had to do with the gameplay command settings. It took me quite a while to get used to those action 
 buttons. But I could never satisfactorily overcome the perspective problems.
  Given this, I really could not enjoy this game -- though it should have been enjoyable because of 
 fantastic graphics and ol' prince style puzzles in 3-D form. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kevin091
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 31, 2007 5:57 am PT
Review:  If you think Prince of Persia franchise was dead especially because of the ill-fated revivals, 
 think again. This one isn't just another bad revival, this one is a unique, original masterpiece 
 that combines style with state-of-the-art technology. Most notable (and convenient) is the rewind 
 feature which saves you from repeating the whole level from the last save point as well as the 
 great level design and big-scale buildings made possible by Ubisoft Shanghai's rendering engine. 
 The lighting effects and colors make for a certain kind of storybook appeal and the prince just 
 looks mature and edgy I guess.
  
  The trademark acrobatic moves of the prince are very fluid (in the PC) and smooth. He swings like 
 a gymnast and is definitely the fastest ladder climber I've played in my own life. Putting that 
 aside, the voice work puts a lot of personality on the character and is very fitting for the prince. 
 Speaking of audio, the sound effects are great as well as the BG, which is a great mix of hard 
 rock and Middle-East influences... too bad the music only plays during fights and not during the 
 puzzles part of the game which is by the way, maybe a bit challenging to others.
  
  The game is pretty short with a duration of 8-10 hours but it still provides addictive gameplay 
 and a great (I just keep saying it) story courtesy of Jordan Mechner (creator of the original) 
 himself. Keyboard controls are of a style used in FPS's (keyboard-mouse coordination) and they 
 actually work pretty good. The game is great enough to be played over and over again though if 
 you want to go on with the story, try Warrior Within which they say, is a worthy successor to the 
 great game. Too bad the bonuses Gamespot mentioned in their review doesn't appear here in the PC 
 version. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jrhawk42
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 26, 2007 2:01 pm PT
Review:  When I first heard about the series I pretty much dimissed it being meant for young teens. After 
 the 3rd one came out I decided to give the whole series a shot, and I'm glad I did.
  
  The sands of time is a very simple game for the most part. You've got a handful of fighting moves, 
 and a couple climbing moves also, but nothing too complicated. Of course the level layout, and 
 well paced fighting sequences make sure you really don't get too bored. The game camera was quite 
 flexible, and though it did hinder my view sometimes in fighting, alot of the time in adventuring 
 it helps guide you upon the right directions. Some parts of the game absolutely require a walkthrough 
 guide and most of the time there's only one path to get to the objective. Playing this game w/out 
 a walkthrough guide is going to be a bit frustraiting at a few points.
  
  The story is pretty solid for new IP, and well balanced with the gameplay. It does get a bit story 
 heavy towards the end, and personally I didn't care for the ending. It wasn't a bad ending it was 
 sort of a middle of the road ending (not happy not tragic, not really anything except for an ending) . 
 The story pretty much follows the hero's journey for those of you that understand writing.
  
  For a game made back in 2003 I have to say the graphics though not impressive didn't really 
 look bad either, and this game has aged quite well. I will say the style of the game seemed a bit 
 generic, but not so much so it's distracting. I found the sound to be overall good, and immersive, 
 but often I found some of the dialog to be too quiet, and the music got a bit repeditive.
  
  The game is very short, quite linear, and has no multiplayer/coop modes so replay value isn't 
 as high as many games. Still this title has quite a bit of replay value since there aren't any 
 portions of the game that are long or tedious. Throughout Sands of Time gameplay is fresh and fun 
 which gives some bonus points to value.
  
  Considering by now the game is on the discount rack of most game stores it's a good buy (I picked 
 up the trilogy for $20) . Sands of Time though short packs in alot of fun, and is a classic title 
 that should stand the test of time and be a good addition to any game collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chandu83
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 27, 2007 4:31 am PT
Review:  I usually dont review a game unless I have finished it completely. However, after having finished 
 65% of this game, I say without a lot of doubt that this is one of the most entertaining games 
 I have played.
  
  I have to draw comparisons with Tomb Raider sometimes because Prince of Persia set out to be a 
 Tomb Raider initially, but now the trend has been reversed.
  
  Let me talk about this game, one part at a time.
  
  Gameplay
  
  Those of you who have played 
 Prince of Persia 3D will know that the series was really going down the drain. That game was an 
 awful Tomb Raider clone. The controls were not responsive, the environment was restrictive most 
 of the time, the combat was boring at bestI played through half of it and I got tired and left 
 it. The series was going a disaster. What it needed was a solid game to make for Prince of Persia 
 3D.
  
  Prince of Persia Sands of Time was perfect in that sense. This is a genre defining game, so much 
 so that the new Tomb Raider had very similar control system. I guess this goes to show how good 
 the game actually is.
  
  There is never any dull moment in the game. The puzzles basically involve precision jumping and 
 movements and of course moving around objects. And thats one of the highlights of the game. The 
 movement of the character is incredible, I mean if you thought that Lara Croft was agile in Tomb 
 Raider then this game will make your head spin.
  
  The kind of moves that Prince can pull off is insane, and thats one of the most fun parts of the 
 game and I dont remember seeing anything like this. Ever. There are often puzzles that require 
 you to navigate spike traps, rolling blades, swinging, spiked columns etc. And you will have to 
 jump off walls, climb up pillars, shimmy across narrow platforms and more to make it past these 
 traps. It can get a little difficult, often frustrating, but its really just a matter of practice.
 
  
  There is also the whole concept of the Sands of Time. The prince has in his possession a dagger 
 that can control time. You are given about 4 sands clocks in the beginning, and the number will 
 increase as the game progresses. What that means is that you can rewind time, its nothing like 
 the bullet time concept that we have seen a million times in video games. This actually turns back 
 time, so can execute your moves better, kill enemies effectively etc. You get to gain the sands 
 by killing enemies and taking their sand. Its an interesting concept; very unique.
  
  Story
  
  I really didnt bother too much with the story, but it goes something like this: The 
 prince along with the King, invade a kingdom in India and acquire among many treasures  an hour 
 glass and a dagger which gives the possessor the control over the sands of time.
  
  The evil Vizier tricks the prince into using the dagger to unleash the Sands of Time. This results 
 in complete chaos and turns everyone in the kingdom into monsters save for three people  the Prince, 
 the Indian Princess Farah who assists the prince during the course of the game and the evil Vizier, 
 and all these three people are vying to possess the dagger.
  
  I thought the way the story unfolds was pretty good; its actually told by the Prince as the game 
 progress, so its a sort of a flashback.
  
  Graphics
  
  Lets talk about everyones favorite subject  graphics. The game looks beautiful. I played it 
 on high settings and I was particularly impressed with the water and fog effects. For its time, 
 this game was truly ground breaking. The atmosphere has been superbly created with excellent effects.
 
  
  The dungeons have a very eerie feel to them and the open environments are expansive and stunning 
 at times with lush green surroundings and waterfalls. Although most of the time the Prince is perched 
 on a high cliff or on top of a castle and you dont actually get to travel through backdrop, but 
 it adds to the atmosphere nevertheless and its beautiful.
  
  Most of the game takes place in the castle and thats where the level design truly shines. The 
 interiors are magnificent and the attention to detail is truly amazing. This adds to the overall 
 feel of the game and on high resolution its brilliant.
  
  Flaws
  
  Well, thats a very relative term, so these are just my personal opinions and need not reflect 
 anyone elses opinion of the game. Since I am new to playing these kind of games, I guess I am 
 not able to adapt to this as easily as most other gamers.
  
  The camera can be a little difficult to control, and the controls are camera sensitive. That means 
 W doesnt always mean move forward, it actually depends on direction in which the camera is positioned. 
 Getting used to that is a painif you are inexperienced like I am, you will find yourself making 
 mistakes very often, and initially that might mean instant death. There is a particular location 
 where there are number of sand creatures to be fought in a closed room, and camera was very hard 
 to position the way I wanted. That was extremely frustrating for me.
  
  And thats another complaint, I got the feeling the Prince died way too easily in the beginningjust 
 a couple of blows from the enemies, or a fall from a ledge is enough to kill the Prince. This was 
 frustrating in the beginning, but as the game progresses the health bar increases, and the resistance 
 increases as well.
  
  While the combat is a lot of fun, each enemy has to be killed about 4 times on an average. Every 
 time you kill an enemy, take their sand that is, the enemy will re-spawn, and this goes on for 
 about 4-5 times. AND there are about 3-4 enemies attacking you at the same time, so that means 
 a lot of time is spent blocking them and moving about. So its not as easy as you think it might 
 be, attack too soon, and you will get hit, and if you are in the initial stage, thats game over.
 
  
  I can recall this initial battle where I think I had to kill the enemies 7-8 times each, and my 
 health bar was still quite low, and I had to replenish it ever so often. That was so frustrating 
 that I almost gave up. But once you keep playing, you will get a hang of it, and then it doesnt 
 get as frustrating.
  
  Another disappointing factor is that there is no Save Anywhere feature in the game; you will have 
 to reach checkpoints in the game that allow you to save the game. Although the checkpoints are 
 fairly evenly distributed, I felt I would have enjoyed the game more if there was a Save Anywhere 
 option. But thats just my personal opinion, some people find the lack of this option perfectly 
 acceptable, and some might even feel the need for it. But initially, inexperienced gamers will 
 find it frustrating.
  
  I have not encountered any bugs so far in the game, it seems pretty solid although the audio could 
 have been better I felt  just a personal opinion. All in all this is a very solid and fun game 
 which can be frustrating initially, but with a little persistence it will become very immersive. 
 I would recommend people to try this once and see if they are patient enough to play certain parts 
 of the game over and over, and if they can actually get a hang of the controls. If yes  you will 
 enjoy the game and the sequels, if not, give it a rest.
  
  I can say for sure that this game is not for everyone. Those who enjoy the straight forward gameplay 
 of First Person Shooters will have a hard time adapting to this one. But since I have played Tomb 
 Raider before, and I am somewhat used to the whole idea of solving puzzles to progress, I guess 
 I could say that the learning curve for me was not as high. But in general, the learning curve 
 for an average gamer that plays shooters is quite high.
  
  My verdict - give it a try, you might just like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: firebirdboi06
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 13, 2007 10:47 pm PT
Review:  Based on an older game, Prince of Persia: The Sands Of Time delivers like very few games have. 
 The backdrop for the story is in the Middle East, during the time of Sultan rulers. You are the 
 Prince to a Persian king who is about to assault a kingdom in the jungle for it's treasures and 
 women to use as slaves. While there, you break away from your father in search of your own honor 
 and glory. In the king's vault, you find the Hourglass and Dagger of Time. You are not interested 
 in the hourglass, you can't pocket it. You snag the Dagger easily, and your father grabs the Hourglass. 
 On your way back home you come to a friendly kingdom and your father offers up animals and women, 
 as well as the Hourglass. But the Vizier who joined you from the jungle kingdom tricks you into 
 opening the hourglass with the Dagger. The Sands of Time are then unleashed and you're adventure 
 begins. Throughout the game, the story evolves at a not so hectic pace, with vibrant characters. 
 Even the sand creatures have a certain likness to them, much like the Borg of Star Trek. The voice 
 acting for the Vizier, the Prince, and a girl from the pillaged kingdom, Farah, are extremely well 
 done and believable. In the game you are armed with two weapons, a sword and the Dagger of Time. 
 The sword is good for knocking enemies to the ground, and knocking away walls, but otherwise it 
 is useless. the weapon you'll use the most is the Dagger. Without it, you can't kill the sand creatures. 
 When you do stick the Dagger into them, you gain there sand. The Dagger has a unique ability to 
 hold sand in sand tanks, which are used for various time powers. The amount of them can grow as 
 you progress through the game. The one power you'll use the most is without a doubt, Rewind. Rewind 
 let's you travel back in time up to ten seconds. This can help you correct a mistake in combat 
 or in acrobatic climbing, and even death. So long as you have sand in the Dagger, the game isn't 
 over. Other abilities include slowing time down, frezzing enemies so you can cut them down with 
 the sword, and even a Fast-Forward ability which frezzes all enemies for 10 seconds while you go 
 at unbelievable speed, slicing them all down with ease. The enviroments and the time abilities 
 really set this game apart from others. The enviroments are massive and make a lot of sense in 
 the progression and Persian architecture. A great plus is that you can climb on any wall, use any 
 pole, or any cliff to your pleasure. The progression in the game and the solving of many puzzles 
 requires you to know how to control the Prince's acrobatic moves, from running on a wall, to swinging 
 from ropes and flagpoles. At times the acrobatic moves can make you a tad dizzy, but that's part 
 of the beauty of the level design. Kudos to that team, this could NOT have been easy to do. Over 
 all, Prince of Persia: The Sands of Time is an excellent game, with wonderful puzzles, a great 
 plot, and wonderful voice acting. There are no slow down instances and even some nice bonus features, 
 including behind the scenes takes on the making of the game, and if you have a Game Boy Advance, 
 connecting it will give you access to the original Prince of Persia game. This is well worth a 
 purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedneckGamer87
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 9, 2007 10:56 pm PT
Review:  This is an amzing game that should not be missed by any serios gamer.
  
  Gameplay: Well let me tell you a bit about the story, It about when a king dominates a huge empire 
 and has aquired a hourglass with glowing sand, then the prince manages to find the knife that opens 
 the hourglass and is tricked in to opening it by the evil vizier and everyone is changed in to 
 sand monsters accept The Prince, The Vizier and Farra who helps you along the way in the game. 
 So you have to go an try to undo what you have done. So you go around the palace fighting sand 
 monsters with your magical sand dagger and sword which can be improved though out the game. The 
 fighting system is fairly basic but pretty cool it's like the prince is a ninja or something, He 
 can run up the wall then flip over and slash someone, run along the wall and slash or grab, block 
 slowdown time, speed up time, sand power burst and a whole bunch of diffrent cool moves he can 
 perform though it's a little limited and gets a little repatative when fighting mulitiple enemies.
 
  
  Graphics: When it first game out it they were top notch and they still are today nice to look at. The 
 enviroment is very lush and colorfull and dark and depressing in the darker areas like the dungon 
 and the lighting and shadow work is very well done.
  
  Sound: the sounds is very nice, the voice acting is well done it's very clear and such, Also the 
 sound effects of the envorment, shouts, weapons sound real. Also the soundtrack sound very nice 
 it's got the middle eastern flovor, with a little rock mixed in.
  
  Value: There is great replay value in this game, You can play this again and again because it just 
 has great gameplay and a great story and unforgetable characters. Also after your done with that 
 you can go and play the old versions of Prince of Persia which is only found of the xbox version. 
 Personally I have many memories of playing the orinal Prince Of Perisa games what I was younger 
 in the early 90's. Anyways if you have not got or played or partly played this game go out there 
 and get this game because this is a great game to have and add to you collection of games. I give 
 this game 9.5 out of 10. Also get Prince of Persia: Warrior Within and Prince Of Persia: The Two 
 Throwns. I personally liked it for the xbox I guess I'm more used to the controls or something 
 but yeah xbox is my choose in platform to play Prince of persia. The PC version is missing a few 
 extra content compared to the Xbox and PS2 Versions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dope999
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 9, 2007 12:56 pm PT
Review:  Do you remember the old Prince of Persia games, for Macintosh, SNES, Sega and so forth? Instant 
 classic... definitely. Now the games has been modified and released as Prince of Persia: The Sands 
 of Time. Ubisoft Montreal and Jordan Mechner has created this game, and the result is truly amazing. 
 Although the console ports has received better reviews and criticism, I think that the PC version 
 is also worth checking out.
  
  You play as the Prince of Persia. His father  the king of persia and his army defeat the powerful 
 Maharajah of Persia's city, which takes the prince to the inner palace within the city. There he 
 steals an artefact; The Dagger of Time. The king also stole a huge hourglass filled with sand. 
 A dying Vizier tricks the prince to unlock the sands and therefore the sands is released - turning 
 every living thing in the city to hideous sand monsters. The only living people is the Maharajahs 
 beautiful daughter, the prince and the vizier. From here, you will battle your way through the 
 city to kill the vizier and keep him from gaining immortal powers from the sands.
  
  The prince himself possesses exceptional athletic and acrobatic skills. Most of the game contains 
 a lot of jumping, climbing, wall running an so it goes on. This is occasionally very fun and exciting, 
 because in most situations, if you fail a wall run or jump, you will be pierced by spikes. All 
 over the city there's huge traps and devices which will kill you if you don't time your moves.
 
  The whole story is told by the prince himself. That means that the whole story is told, like a 
 flashback. For instance, if the prince should fall and die, then your hear his voice say something 
 like: No, that didn't happen. Let me begin again. But fortunately you won't have to start over 
 every time you die, because not even the prince's death will keep him from undoing his mistake. 
 As you primary weapon, you possess the Dagger of Time. As you kill sand monsters, you have to get 
 them back into the dagger. Or else they will reincarnate and try to kill you once more. When you 
 get them back into the knife, you fill your sand inventory, which can be used to turn back time 
 if you die or something like that or slow time down.
  Puzzle solving plays a huge part in The Sands of Time. This is where you take advantage of your 
 acrobatic skills to find some way to open locked doors or to reach points, where you can't jump 
 or run to. The graphics is also one of the game's strongest sides. It's like the graphics is soft 
 and almost fairy tale like, since the whole game is told in flashback. The character graphics is 
 a little unfinished and not that great, but the prince himself is good enough though. The sand 
 monsters looks good, too. They're all varied and has totally different looks.
  The environments is probably the best thing in the graphics section. Throughout the game, you will 
 battle and explore huge and detailed areas. Each area almost has its own personality, especially 
 the great outdoors. So the environments is some of the best I've ever seen.
  
  In the game, there will be several cutscenes  both in-game and cinematic cutscenes. And you know 
 what? They're absolutely great and stunning to look at. In the game there's a lot of good thing, 
 when it comes to sound and music. The voice acting is good and sounds good, but in-game it's too 
 low, so you don't hear what the prince and Farah says. Then you'll miss a lot of information and 
 good humour coming from the prince. Otherwise, in cutscenes, it's good quality voice acting; and 
 the monsters also speaks of some sort and makes monster noises  not good or bad thing though.
 
  
  The music is intense and creates a very good mood. It has this India, middle-age style which suits 
 the game very well. The Sands of Time has a good and solid campaign, which can keep you busy for 
 11 to 12 hours, but when you finish the game, I suggest you play Warrior Within. It's a shame when 
 you finish this game, you're still left wanting more of this good stuff. But this game is definitely 
 worth you time and money. (But still it's fairly short)
  
  Overall, I highly recommend that you check out Prince of Persia: The Sands of Time. It's an instant 
 classic that shouldn't be forgotten and it really deserves to be in your game collection! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: prince_elad_69
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 8, 2007 11:42 am PT
Review:  while the prince fightes the sands monsters and talks to himself and farah is watching you doing 
 everything by yourself.... you (the player) is getting board from this game and wishes he will die 
 or just shut the **** up!!! anyway this game is not the best game of prince of persia and is even 
 a bad game.... here is my opinion of the graphics sound and gameplay
  
  GRAPHICS: probebly the only good thing about this game... because the graphics looks really good 
 and is fun to watch and dosent make your eyes hurt every time you play this game....
  SOUND: well... avreg... lets just say ive hurd better music in games than this one... so lets swich 
 the subject...
  GAMEPLAY: repedetive like hell!!!! you kill sand monsters and there is a riddle to solve... and thats 
 is just it... that is the whole game!!! you solve a very long and boaring riddle and there comes 
 a very long part of fighting sand monsters and so one and so forth.... and dont let start about 
 talking about the camera... the worst camera control i have ever experienced in my life of gaming... the 
 camera is one of the baddest things in this game...
  
  but dont worry if you take all the bad things in this game you will get a... game disk... well there 
 isent a lot of good things about this game so sorry to dissapoint the fans but this game in the 
 POP series was boaring and not fun at-all!!!
  
  BYE BYE 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Calist0
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 12, 2007 3:16 am PT
Review:  It was about time they start remake the old games, and this one is simply excellent. I have enjoyed 
 every last detail from graphics and story and in my opinion is the best in the last 3 series. Warrior 
 Within and Two Thrones have more action, the story lacks substance, Sands of Time is not all about 
 fighting enemies and acrobatic moves, it has a love story which gives the game more color and respiro 
 moments.
  
  Of course the fight scenes are great as well the acrobatic jumps etc, graphically speaking is stunning 
 with great textures and great ambiances. The sounds are also well made, with great voice actings 
 and soundtracks.
  
  Seems that Ubisoft will become a great company with this kind of releases, universally speaking.
 
  
  I will advise to buy and play the whole saga because it worth it, it is a great game for all tastes.
 
  
  Cheers 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tomacres
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 22, 2006 8:19 am PT
Review:  Yes, Prince of Persia is back and in full 3D. The game looks absolutely gorgeous, the storybook 
 style is perfect, the music is beautiful, voice acting is spot on, story is great, the game plays 
 silky smooth and it's just a whole lot of fun!
  
  Gameplay: What can I say, this gameplay is buttery smooth. The platforming is superb and all the 
 death defying stunts that the Prince can do are incredible. However, even with the ability to turn 
 back time, the game can become frustrating, especially towards the end when you don'thave the ability 
 to turn back time anymore. The combat is shallow but is still loads of fun and very simple to do. 
 It's a shame that the combat can also be frustrating, for example if you are knocked down and surrounded 
 it's extremeley ahrd to get back up without them knowcking you back down staright away. However 
 for the most part this game plays wonderfully.
  
  Graphics: This game looks absolutely sublime with some of the finest animation in a video game 
 that I have ever seen. The open landscapes are wonderful and the things you see are breathtaking, 
 even though the game is very linear. The character models are also great and the cut scenes are 
 not bad either. Sound: Superb musical score accompanied by some fnatastic voice cast, the Prince 
 stands out and there are some great lines thrwn in when you're just running around. Especially 
 when he is bickering with Farah, there are some rather funny moments in the dialogue.
  
  Value: The games downfall comes here, it took me about 8 hours to finish and that was mainly due 
 to getting stuck on one of the latter levels when I didn't have the sand sof time anymore.
  
  Overall this is a very, very good example of how platforming gameplay like this should be done. 
 An excellent way to rebbot this series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Encell
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 22, 2006 6:58 am PT
Review:  Prince of Persia; Sands of Time , I mean it looks like a kids game- bright blue and yellow colour 
 scheme with a prince in it- oooh wow. But it was only &pound;5 and had a reassuring review on the 
 back, so I thought I'd give it a go. I don't tend to play platform games, they don't have the same 
 in there feel as FPS and I associate them with movie tie in crap games from Disney. However, I'd 
 heard that this game was good... or average, I couldn't remember, but I knew that playing with 
 time and doing cool fighting manouvers were its acclaimed high points. Better get to it then.
 
  
  This is a fun I thought. I can run along walls and the camera makes a nice whoosh sound when the 
 view changes. It's all good, but the real fun starts later on when you gain the ability to mess 
 with time with your magical dagger (powered by sand form your foes' bodies) . You died? OK let's 
 rewind that and make sure we don't jump into that booby trap... done? Good. You see the dagger 
 lets you rewind a few seconds back into game as well as giving the Prince control over the speed 
 of time, like slow mo. Granted, I've not really made use of these powers as much as I should (the 
 traps are more of a problem than the enemies for me) but they are useful to play with and make 
 you feel big and clever when you decide you should've blocked that pikemans attack, then go back 
 and follow with a counter attack, leap over him and plunge the dagger into his heart. Yay, I'm 
 a hero.
  
  The movement in the game is elegant and acrobatic, you can swing off poles, wall run, jump up two 
 walls and use the environment to pull off attacks. Even fighting in a clear space, the moves you 
 do look spectacular. Perhaps the only problem is that you only attack with the Lmb and use the 
 directional keys and jump to attack, so their's not as much control as to what you can do like 
 a combo-based fighting game, though I think the games sequels may have changed this.
  
  My only complaints are the traps-but thats down to player timing so I can't really blame the game 
 for that- and the puzzles; maybe I can't think when in a game that involves killing but a couple 
 of situations have got me looking for a walkthorugh-simply because I can't bear the boredom of 
 walking around doing nothing because the (sometimes annoying) camera isn't doing me any favours... 
 or perhaps thats my fault for not being observant.
  
  Just play this game; fun, pretty and now for just &pound;5! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: santiagoff
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 21, 2006 12:14 pm PT
Review:  Prince Of Persia: Sands of Time brings us back the old-school prince loved by everybody. Do you remember 
 when Prince of Persia was realesed , it was a bang! Then with Prince of Persia: The Shadow and The 
 Flame , the serie went down leaving only die-hard fans. Then with Arabian Nights and Prince of Persia 
 3D the serie completely died.
  But then Ubisoft realesed Prince of Persia: The Sands of Time to revive the old-school Prince. But 
 this time with new 3D graphics , new characters , new story , and the best of all , new addictive 
 gameplay.
  Let's start with the review.
  
  Graphics: 8
  The graphics is Sands of Time aren't really amazing or spectacular. But they really show you nicely 
 developed environments and cool characters. There's something I want to say , when in the ending 
 the dagger is just , it just turns red abnormally , it doesn't seem like if it was blood , a pathetic 
 effect.
  
  Sound: 7
  Sometimes the music really didn't fit. The only good musics were the ones in the fighting scenes. And 
 the voices , were really good.
  
  Gameplay:10
  Perfect 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EcnirP_PrincE
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 13, 2006 2:47 am PT
Review:  This game is a masterpiece and a unique one in its own leage . In this gaming world where potentially 
 every game is a game to fight with guns , grenades , and other weapons of mass destructions . But 
 this game has come and changed it all -- it has brought the old weapons the swords , daggers , 
 etc . This game has a wonderful graphics , game story , everything that you need in a game . After 
 all time travel will make you a virtual god but still then there are other people who are much 
 stronger than the prince and you have to defeat them in order to complete this game . The main 
 story of the game is about the sands of time which can be opened with the dagger of time . The 
 sands of time were created in the island of time . The Maharaja got the sands by defeating the 
 king of INDIA . The person who will open the sands will have to die and the prince has to open 
 them to save Farah-the daughter of the maharaja. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vufor
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 7, 2006 11:37 pm PT
Review:  Well, sort of I went a backward on my adventure with prince of Persia. Started this game with POP: 
 Warrior Within (the best) and continued with POP: Two Thrones. Recently I have got first part of 
 the game Sand of Time. Must say, I really enjoyed all parts of the game and playing them backward 
 or in improper order did not impact to my gameplay understanding, as says I am still with him. 
 Sand of time is really fascinating game. Does not matter if game play concept was predictable a 
 bit, I meanthe story in a few words like this, you get over obstacles and here you go crowd of 
 weird enemies waiting for you to crack their dumb and sandy heads.
  
  However whole game is just plain fun. Great graphics and sound also, special effects makes game 
 quiet impressive for that time of game age. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PunkAss007
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 31, 2006 11:30 am PT
Review:  The game rules!!! It has all the fun of the world... Probably smaller amount of combos than in 
 Warrior Within, but these are enough, if you ask me. Graphics are great and so is the sound! I 
 haven't played the two thrones yet, but I think that the Sands of Time is a little better than 
 Warrior Within... The game has it's own style, it's original, and is not a copy of any other game 
 that I have played... It's not short in levels, so there is a big amount of time that you can dedicate 
 to playing the Sands of Time... I really like the game... Actually, I'm tied to it... One of the 
 greatest and most original games that I have ever played... Go ahead, try it yourself, you'll see 
 what happens... It definetly deserves to be perfect... 10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mclazyj
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 23, 2006 6:30 am PT
Review:  Prince of Persia: The Sands of Time, takes the player back to a day of swashbuckling and acrobatics 
 that have not been seen since the days of Douglas Fairbanks and the 1920s. You cannot help but 
 get sucked up into the story of love, betrayal and revenge, while the gravity defying action comes 
 at you fast and furious, never giving you a moments rest. It is an enjoyable experience that will 
 stick with you long after you are done playing.
  
  The game puts you in the shoes of The Prince, a young man that has been riding with his fathers 
 army in their crusade of dominance. You begin the story having conquered a new land that was important 
 for their ownership of an object called, The Sands of Time. The Sands are supposed to allow the 
 owner to control time. However, your father is duped by his Vizier, a type of wizard, into having 
 you unlock The Sands of Time with the Dagger of Time. This causes all around you but the Vizier 
 , a young captive by the name of Farah and yourself to consumed by the Sands of Time. This turns 
 all into mindless zombies, a shell of their former selves. It is a great event for the Prince as 
 he is forced to kill his father and the rest of the people around him that he considered important 
 in this intro. This immediately locks you into the pain and suffering that the Prince is to deal 
 with, all the while trying to find out why he was betrayed and who is the mysterious Farah.
  
  Farah adds a lot to the game, because she is a catalyst for the young Prince. The tension between 
 the two is a great story mechanism. The Prince is immediately captured by her eyes in the opening 
 sequences and is baffled by her survival after the Sands are opened. As the story progresses, his 
 emotions towards her become a story mechanic in itself. Everytime they connect a glance or touch 
 hands, it is like a spark plug firing, giving off a charge between them. This really heightens 
 the suspense of their will they or wont they releationship. It was something that stood out in 
 the game and made it that much more enjoyable rooting for the two of them.
  
  The Prince works his way through a castle trying to reverse the process of releasing The Sands 
 of Time. To overcome this challenge, the Prince has some incredible skills that help him with the 
 task. Jumping, wall-running, rolling, running and any other gymnastic move you can think of is 
 used by the Prince to get to his objectives. Another feature that you have at your disposal is 
 the Dagger of Time. After killing enemies, you collect the sands from their body to charge the 
 Dagger. This in turn allows you to unlock the power of the Dagger. The biggest power it grants 
 you is the power to reverse time. You move the wrong way and jump off of a cliff, just press the 
 R key until you are back on solid ground. It does have its limits. You have to let it charge between 
 uses and you only get a certain amount of uses that are designated in the upper left hand corner 
 of the screen. Other powers granted by the Dagger include slowing down time and draining the life 
 out of an enemy. The game interface is simple to use and the controls that guide the Prince on 
 his quest are very simple for mouse and keyboard users. The default layout is very intuitive and 
 allows for most control without difficulty. And most of the death defying acrobatics are done with 
 a simple click of the mouse or a two button combo with the keyboard. Saved games are handled by 
 a checkpoint system that is frequent enough so that you do not lose progress, but when porting 
 to a computer, you should allow for save anywhere saved games. Overall, the developers have done 
 a nice job of migrating the controls for PC users so they get nearly the same experience as their 
 console brethren.
  
  Graphics in the game are sharp and have an interesting filter mechanism that is used to give the 
 game a soft yellow glow. At first it was a little off-putting, but you get used to it and it gives 
 the game a warm feeling that is pleasing to the eyes. Characters are sharp and look very good for 
 a game that is three years old. A lot of time was spent on the creation of all characters including 
 the minions that you face. The only issue with character models is a lack of diversity. There are 
 only about four or five enemy types that you face in the game and it becomes a bit repetitive at 
 times. While the game takes place 90% inside the castle, it is still an impressive looking environment. 
 Corridors and passages are changed just enough to give them a difference in appearance. The audio 
 in the game really shines with all aspects of the game. The actor and actress that voice the Prince 
 and Farah put a lot of quality work into their voiceovers and it makes for a rather pleasant experience. 
 You can feel there is a connection between the characters that is deeper than needing to survive. 
 It is hard to emote that through a game and they both pull it off with a high degree of success. 
 The other voiceovers do a good job, and fill out the story while never becoming hammed up at any 
 time. Ambient sounds are really well done as well. Everything from dripping water to creaking of 
 a booby trap, the sounds give the castle an appearance of being a living being. Music is dramatic 
 and gives the player a sense as to what is to come. It is never overbearing, but sometimes just 
 did not fit the mood of the event about to happen. But it was a minor issue that did not affect 
 gameplay.
  
  With Prince of Persia: Sands of Time, you get a fast-paced action platformer that gives you a deep 
 and compassionate story that has complex, developed characters struggling to survive the situation 
 fate has put them in. The tension between the two characters along with the mystery of the Sands 
 will keep you entertained from beginning to end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fahad2mail
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 19, 2006 12:19 pm PT
Review:  it have been many days past after 1st pop 3d released. bt that are the interconnection between previous 
 pop game. bt the sands of time, things get different. here our dear ubi start one of the greatest 
 trilogy series in the game history. n pop sands of time is the 1st one. n totally different than 
 ne of previous pop game. the storyline is really amazing n attractive. prince did a wrong thing to 
 make her father happy. bt it get worse. so he start a very long and dangerous journey to cure what 
 he did! the graphycs is superb. the level design is also amazing. and main thing is our prince's acrobatical 
 ability like walk in the wall, n so on... prince's fighting ability is also great. when u hit ur opponent 
 in right way, the camera will move on the accurate position from where u can see it like live cricket 
 show! and the time will slow also to fulfill ur view! this is quit amazing. n the sound. thats really 
 great! the background music is perfect to keep u track to kill the enemy. for ur kind information, u 
 r not all alone in this game. o ya, i forget to tell u about the princes Farah! our prince's friend, who 
 fight beside the prince all over the game. more than that! u can find life upgrad, ur weapon upgread 
 all over the game. and also there are some magic upgread to keep u powerfull against the enemy. i 
 can bet u that u never be bore to play this game. the gameplay is superb. n offcourse there are a 
 climax at the end of the game. bt i think that u better play n see that lol........ it seems that 
 ubi done quite well with the 1st pop (sands of time) game. thats all about. for ur kind information, i 
 am bangladesh. english is my 2nd language. so forgive my mistake. take care all n be happy........... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tomdelonge0686
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 2, 2006 11:38 am PT
Review:  Ok Ninja Gaiden eats this game alive u know that! but then this game fights back and takes my love 
 too! no im not a geek but jeez im a fps nut and football nut but fps r gettting old right now. And 
 ninja gaiden2 and 3 arent coming yet so i gave POP another try and im glad i did. Its a very good 
 game and i wish i played it 2 years ago when i threw it in my junk pile lol. But yeah get the game 
 its worth for a classic i have to have a hunder words so  
 sdfsdjykj sdkh ksjhdfkjsh sdksfhkjs huihfjdhjkf hfdjhf jdhfjh jhfjdhf djfhjdh jdhjf hdj jhd jfdhfhjdh 
 dj jd hjdh jdjhfjdh jfdhjdj hh dj dhjdhjfhjdhdfj 
::::::

::::::
UserName: s7aTyC
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 1, 2006 10:52 am PT
Review:  Maybe the best game i've ever played ! The interesting storyline, the perfect gameplay and beauty 
 graphics made that game a Masterpiece ! a MUST-GAME for every gamer, especially action-adventure 
 fans ! Everything about this game is very very very GOOD. Realy good ! Ubisoft surely made that 
 game from their hearth. The most impressive thing is the storyline ! the BEST story put in a game 
 EVER ! Really Thrilling and interesting, it can make you cry, or laught. The Graphics are great, realy 
 good special effects and textures. just BEAUTY ! The combat system is really impressive, the prince 
 is realy an acrobat ! Just BUY this game NOW. Don't miss it because is REALY GREAT ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Anarki983
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 30, 2006 2:24 pm PT
Review:  Max Payne 2 the fall of Max Payne, is unlike any other shooting game I've ever played. I believe 
 it is one of the best games ever made for PC, also one of the best sequels. The graphics are incredible, 
 and the gameplay is amazing. Bullet time, and bullet dodge are a clever, and unique way of attacking 
 the enemy. The sound is great, especially the music. The guns, the characters, and the levels, 
 have had alot of work put into them. The way an object moves when you shoot it, or run into it, 
 is really clever. If you love shooting/action games, then play Max Payne 2: the fall of Max Payne, 
 You won't regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rockyking
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 26, 2006 1:03 pm PT
Review:  Prince Of Persia Sand Of Time is one of the best games ever
  It combines both of good graphics , beautiful story and smooth controls
  The story is very nice 
 and it won't let u sleep just 2 see what happens next
  The graphics r very great it takes u to another world of beauty and charming
  The gameplay is 
 very beautiful it challenge u in every level
  The control is very easy u will learn it in ten minutes The associating music is very beautiful 
 and relaxing and u will love the game soundtrack which appear after u finish the game
  Puzzle of these games r easy because this game don't rely on them very much this game depend on 
 fast movement , agility and walking on walls
  You will be very amazed by Prince's agility , cool moves and fighting skills
  They only bad thing 
 in this game is the bosses they r two and they r sooooo easy they don't challenge u
  In a few words I think POP worth buying and play a second time at least if u didn't play it yet 
 u will lose alot 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AmarJ
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 24, 2006 5:29 am PT
Review:  Ooohhh..!!! The graphics of this game is something to set your eyes on.
  Watch the splendorous environments that you move through while playing.
  This game also has a 
 great storyline. Platforming is something to be awed at. The platforming from the classic Princeof 
 Persia game follows suit. Throughout the game your love Farah accompanies you as you jump, swing,
 
  wallrun (now that's unique) en route. The combat's not the greatest and may get repetitive at times. But 
 still it's simple, free &amp; fluid. The only boss fight of the game is, well, not great either but 
 again the game has a fantastic ending.
  This game has revolutionalised the world of action-adventure gaming. The soundtracks are mainly 
 of Asian type. The sweet tunes match the game preety well and a couple of them will surely hypnotize 
 you. All in all, this game's fantastic. I bet you are gonna love this. And when you do ,join the Prince 
 of Persia club union! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: loading123
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 15, 2006 10:05 am PT
Review:  well i played sands of time way back but today while checking out it's reviews from other people 
 i wanted to write something about it....
  
  Well ,sands of time has excellent graphics, a great story (note: can make a movie from it) , good 
 gameplay.... people who have played pop 2 and pop3 but have not played pop 1 then.... damn play this 
 game!!!!!!!
  
  I am a great pop fan... and the sands of time opened all the gateways to the other two successful 
 parts
  
  But as every game it's disadvantages... pop: sands of time doesnot concern that much on fighting... in 
 pop 2 and 3 u have a lot of fight moves and combos.. but not in pop 1 ... the freeze power is remarkable 
 but there aree less powers....
  
  anywaysss pop: sands of time rocks 
::::::

::::::
UserName: prinzofpersia
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 14, 2006 7:37 am PT
Review:  This game is the One of the BEST game I ever played in my history of game playing.
  well, I didn't like the game as the way I LOVED today, but my cousin finished the whole triolgy and 
 told me about the game's story, moves and graphics, after the little chit-chat, I was inspired by 
 the game a bit, and had the chance to buy it, but I had an old video card, so the game play wasn't 
 that great... overall.. THE GAME ROCKED!!!!!!! the moves, the graphics, the sound, the style and the 
 enviroment.. was awesome.!!!! and the story was the best thing I loved about the game... and the story 
 was not like the old prince of persia storys, that are all alike, which always tells that a prince 
 must save his love from an evil vizier, and he must defeat.. and bla-bla-bla.. but no, this game has 
 a much different and better story.. which tells the tale of a mighty king and his son, a prince was 
 returning to Azad, when they passed through india.. and the persian army was tempted (as well as king 
 shahraman, and the prince) by honor and glory for fighting and stealing a very rare treasure.. the 
 sands of time, so they won the battle against india, and with the help of the indian vizier.. who 
 betrayed is country for a very strong purpose.. stealing the sands and the key to unlock it.. the 
 dagger of time, which's the prince's property and who stole it from the maharaja treasure vault.. and 
 the vizier managed to trick the prince by unlocking the sands in the sultan's castle and turnes 
 all his army (including his father and every body else in the castle) into ugly sand monsters.. and 
 the prince had no choice but to fight the the army he always faught with.. and he had to put his 
 trust to farah, the maharaja's daughter and a slave to the persians.. the both prince and farah survived 
 the curse, oh.. and including the vizier as well and had to survive to defeat the evil vizier.. and 
 redemption.
  the game is the favourite game for many people in GS and the world and I hope to love it forever... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adnank77
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 12, 2006 5:24 am PT
Review:  Prince of Persia was the pioneer of good graphics and support for sound cards in early 1990s .. 
 Few years later, Prince of Persia 3D spoiled the reputation of this series .. However, years later, 
 The Sands of Time comes back in new package to bring life back to this series .. Graphics are fantastic 
 and realistic .. sound is good and steady. Action is good except some camera issues. In general, 
 this game proves that old games can be successfully re-made into modern technology. we are waiting 
 now for several older classic to come back .. e. g.: Another World .. !! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dalemicallef
Rating: 1.9
Date: Sep 9, 2006 1:37 pm PT
Review:  I found the control system and camera on this game impossible to use. The character is controlled 
 using the WASD system except that in this game, just running forwards could mean pressing anyone 
 of the four direction buttons depending on where the camera is in relation to the character. Even 
 better, as far as I can tell, when the camera angle changes so does the button you need to press 
 to keep running in the same direction! The camera is controlled using the mouse  sort of. If the 
 game doesnt like where you are trying to put the camera it just keeps bouncing back to where it 
 does want to be. In combat scenes Ive had the camera disappear into space so that you can't even 
 see the Prince! Then theres the save system. It only allows you to save at set points in the game. 
 If you get stuck at a particular point and want to come back to it later, you cant save at that 
 point and pick it up there next time you play. No. Youve got to go right back to the save point 
 that the game decided on and replay all the bits to get back to where you were. In short I managed 
 to cope with three or four levels of this before I got fed up of replaying the same bit of the 
 game and running round in circles trying to master the control system. Awful. Truly, truly awful. 
 And thats a shame as the story wasnt bad and it clearly could be great fun. If only theyd have 
 left the camera control to the PC like any other game and allowed you to save where you damn well 
 want to! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andilosha
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 2, 2006 12:02 pm PT
Review:  The Prince Of Persia trilogy is GREAT and all three games are like they're released in the same 
 time. The Sands of Time has a great story. You get introduced with the prince and the dagger and 
 the sands. If you don't play these games in the exact order you might risk to only get half of 
 the pleasure from the series. Although the cameras and controls are not very good to handle, when 
 you get used with them it won't be a problem no more, instead it will be real fun! The story is 
 cool as I said, the characters are nice too, this game has nice graphics but isn't as long as it 
 should have been. But if you play this game, I bet you'll want to see the other two games, and 
 when you do, It will be AWESOME. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: auron_xp
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 18, 2006 8:13 am PT
Review:  One of the best action-adventure games for the years to come, Prince of Persia: The Sands of Time 
 is indeed that game. Prince of Persia: The Sands of Time is a new game to the Prince of Persia 
 series. In this game you play as the Prince, who finds the dagger of time, and gets tricked by 
 the evil Vizier in releasing the Sands of Time, which turned everyone into sand creatures, the 
 Prince must rewind time to prevent that. A new feature in this game is that the Prince can now 
 rewind any mistakes, making the game much less fustrating. The combat in The Sands of Time can 
 be interesting and fun, the Prince can now do many different moves, making him very acrobatic. 
 Overall this is a great adventure game suitable for everyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: abdulrahiem
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 7, 2006 4:19 pm PT
Review:  The Prince of Persia Series is known to have good story lines but I prefer this first one over 
 the other two because of the introduction to the game. It wasn't like most games... It started 
 normal but at the end the prince goes all the way back in time to before you even started playing... 
 Furthermore the way the whole Dagger of Time thing was incorporated. They should make more video 
 games like this one and the God of War game. The only downfall I personally found to this game 
 was that I wanted it to be longer... Mostly because I liked it so much and it only took me 05:48 
 to beat it 100%. Other than that the game kicked some serious butt... 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Noxsiem
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 7, 2006 7:09 am PT
Review:  Current Level : Out Of A Well
  Play Time : 4h, 26m
  
  What's Hot:
  ----------------
  
  :: Highly Detailed Character Interaction::
  
  It is as if someone sat down in a room for 
 a year, and thought about all the possible ways a character could interact with its environment. 
 From the dripping down of water drops from the characters clothes as he emerges himself 
 from a pool of water, to not being able to climb a wall before you dry off, Prince of Persia: The 
 Sands of Time has created near life-like interaction. You simply dont play an empty vessel, 
 but the character responds just as you would to unusual situations and surroundings.
  
  :: Solid and Innovative Combat System ::
  
  One of the crowning attributes of Prince of Persia: 
 The Sands of Time is its innovative combat system. You practically create your own fighting style 
 through the use of the directional keys. This allows you to flow in an endless array of manoeuvres 
 while simultaneously taking on a number of enemies. 
  
  :: Excellent Level Design ::
  
  The acrobat-oriented levels complement the well thought out puzzles that make you feel accomplished 
 as you progress through the game. What makes the level design unique is that it is strongly built 
 on gamer's intuition, rather than a go forward to continue style of play. This greatly 
 amounts to the smoothness of gameplay, making the game very difficult to put down at times.
  
  :: Great Gaming Concept ::
  
  I will not say much about the storyline, but it centres itself 
 around time, and the ability to alter it. This concept greatly contributes to the gameplay dynamics. 
 As you progress you will learn that your ability to control time is a necessity rather than a luxury.
 
  
  :: What's Not ::
  -------------------
  
  :: Slightly Outdated Visuals ::
  
  Dont get me wrong, the visuals and special effects are wonderful. It's just that the character 
 design has a lower polygon count than expected from a game with such detail. 
  
  Quick lesson: Polygon count refers to the number of polygons that are used to create a character, 
 model or environment. The higher the polygon count the higher the detail. For example, blocky hands 
 on a character accounts for a low polygon count in design, while a hand with detailed fingers accounts 
 for a high polygon count. 
  
  In essence, the design of the characters is slightly outdated, making them look "blocky".
  
 
  :: Puzzles that donot Evolve ::
  
  After a while, you become wary of seeing puzzles. This is because there is no real variety in them 
 later on in gameplay. As you progress, puzzles basically boil down to opening doors and dodging 
 razors, which can become very frustrating at times.
  
  Despite the very minor setbacks, Prince of Persia: The Sands of Time makes for a exciting and unique 
 gaming experience. One that is well worth its price tag. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Voldy26
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 22, 2006 1:08 pm PT
Review:  Well, this game might have been great if it weren't for its atrocious controls. The storyline is 
 interesting, the graphics and the stunts look pretty impressive, but the controls suck. They suck 
 almost as much as they did in Silent Hill 3, but in that game they weren't that crucial. The camera 
 angle is constantly shifting, and you never quite know which key to press if you want to turn right, 
 for instance. Not too handy when it comes to fighting enemies, if you ask me. In fact, the battle 
 with the first boss (the Prince's father) proved impossible to win (for me, that is) so I abandoned 
 the game. I don't like games that mock the player, and making a battle nigh impossible to win is 
 mockery in my book. But, if you somehow manage to harness the game's wild controls it should be 
 a real treat. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vegito1669
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 11, 2006 4:11 pm PT
Review:  The Prince of Persia Series is known to have good story lines but I prefer this first one over 
 the other two because of the introduction to the game. It wasn't like most games... It started 
 normal but at the end the prince goes all the way back in time to before you even started playing... 
 Furthermore the way the whole Dagger of Time thing was incorporated. They should make more video 
 games like this one and the God of War game. The only downfall I personally found to this game 
 was that I wanted it to be longer... Mostly because I liked it so much and it only took me 05:48 
 to beat it 100%. Other than that the game kicked some serious butt... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlackGoofy
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 17, 2006 2:58 am PT
Review:  It's a spectacular game but there are some really hard parts, and some bad things.
  It's probably because I miss the guide book that I didn't knew how to do mega freeze, nor did I 
 know that if an enemy did a "round"-attack (he trows all the people around him on the ground) you 
 could jump to avoid the attack, I lost lots of battles because I didn't know that... but ok that's 
 no good excuse for bad things about the game... that's my fault.
  But the fights were sometimes really hard, but that doesn't makes it less cool, you can jump over 
 enemy's and trow them to the ground you can roll and sting, quite much possibilities to defeat 
 an enemy but it was still really hard to my opinion.
  The parts were you need to jump and swing yourself trough levels are really cool, if you are a 
 freerunner or you would like to do it this game is really a must-have.
  Another good thing about the game is that there are some puzzles in it, not super hard but you 
 need to think when you have for pillars sticking out of some walls and you need to put them in 
 the right directions.
  The feature that you're able to turn back time is really cool and really handy, only you get really 
 used to it and that's sometimes quite annoying when you play 2 games at the time, when you first 
 play pop and then another fps you might wanna turn back time, but thats impossible xP
  Well, al together I thought of it as a hard but really cool game.
  
  And then I only mean the 
 fights that are hard.... and maybe... too long *-) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hiitzme
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jun 27, 2006 1:06 pm PT
Review:  The Prince of Persia: Sands of Time has great gameplay and an awesome story aswell, but what really 
 holds it back from an 8 in my opinion is the controls. The controls on the PC are hard and a pain 
 to get. Alongside that there is the views. The view is contantly chaning while you're moving around 
 the common area. Two words to describe the views are: Annoying, and sucky. But other than those 
 flaws this is an excellent game. You play as a Prince who somehow has excellent acrobatic experience. 
 You do things such as jump from ledges, backflip off walls, and run along the side of walls!! What 
 more can you ask for? Zombies to fight! Woot! Overall I am only under-rating this game for reasons 
 such as the bad view system, and the hard controls. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_trooper92
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 27, 2006 6:00 pm PT
Review:  Prince of Persia The Sands of Time is a third person adventure title which mixes both platforming 
 with sword based combat. Shortly after starting the game you are joined by a female companion, 
 Farah. Due to her slender frame she will often assist you by squeezing though small cracks to reach 
 levers and switches which would be impossible for you to reach without her. Still, her reasons 
 and motivations remain a mystery through most of the game.
  
  The combat itself is fairly elementary. Hack and slash an enemy until they fall to the ground and 
 then stab them with the Dagger of Time. By doing this you fill up your meter to reverse time. Yes, 
 its possible to reverse time in the game or slow it down during moments of combat to give you 
 an edge and see what is happening easier. Reversing time is useful when you fall off a ledge, get 
 killed by an enemy, or do something generally stupid as you can "rewind" about 10 seconds of time 
 to take you back to a safety point. This works pretty well, but considering the number of save 
 points in the game (after almost every dangerous platforming or combat section) it seems a little 
 pointless as reloading the game may only place you back a few seconds. One thing that does work 
 very well is the difficulty. Starting out fairly easy the game allows you to master the controls 
 before throwing up some tougher challenges. By the end of the game you'll really have to have all 
 you wits to complete the game. More developers should take note of this increasing difficulty level. 
 
  
  Also impressive is the stunning level design. With the game set around a massive castle there are 
 plenty of ledges to climb, passages to run down and pits to jump over. During the latter part of 
 the game navigating the levels requires some thought as the floors crumble away, or are covered 
 in spikes and progress is often done by jumping from ledge to ledge or from one pole to the next. 
 Its impressive stuff and most rewarding. 
  
  What a game!!! One day I need to meet the prducers of this game because they are the best!!! Prince 
 of Persia rules!!!
  
  Game play: The moves of the Prince and the story ROCKS.
  Score: 10/10
  
  Graphics: They are not as good as good as today's graphics but they are COOL.
 
  
  Score: 10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bloodfall14
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 14, 2006 6:51 am PT
Review:  I very much love this game. I played it almost by accident while I was a camp counselor in PA. 
 For the next two weeks, I suffered extreme neck pain after trying to wall-run in a cabin.
  
  Gameplay - 10/10 - The game flows like a storybook. The story centers around a nameless Persian 
 Prince in the Indian palace of Azad. Each section of the (proper) game begins with a sand vortex 
 that gives you insights into the next section. What to do, what enemies to expect and what the 
 area looks like. All delivered quickly and somewhat hazily. 
  
  The game has many segments of extended combat that usually conclude in a sand vortex/save point. 
 Add into this mix many environmental puzzles that never seen very hackneyed but very intriguing 
 and never without some sort of subtle guide. Top it off with amazing controls and the ability to 
 engage in ridiculously cool acrobatics (like the above gravity-defying wall run) and you get an 
 idea as to what it's like to be the Prince.
  
  (Here it comes)
  
  The major selling point for Prince of Persia: Sands of Time is the Dagger of Time. This artifact 
 is obtained early on in the story and serves as the plot element for the whole run. This dagger 
 has the power to rewind time with the use of the Sands of Time. The dagger holds a certain amount 
 of Sands and whenever the player wishes, time can be rewound by up to ten seconds. This rewinding 
 undoes damage taken and can even reverse a mortal blow. You can retrieve more sand from every enemy 
 you kill (your deathblow requires draining sand from the enemy) .
  
  Graphics - 9/10 - Top notch graphics. It's all very polished and believable. No mutated renders 
 or skins at all. Even the Prince's fabulous hair moves when you move and blows in the wind. The 
 scenery and zones are beautiful and nearly without flaw. The thing that kills the 10/10 for me 
 is the camera angles can sometimes be ridiculously bad and can lead to blowing a lot of sand on 
 rewinds to undo a poorly aimed jump due to neither seeing the Prince nor where he's jumping to.
 
  
  Sound - 9/10 - The soundtrack is spectacular. The voice acting for all of the characters is perfectly 
 believable and the Prince's voice can often lead to swooning women and jealous men. 
  
  Value - 10/10 - Not only is the game on the cheap, but the gameplay is completely worth the drive 
 to the video store.
  
  Tilt - 9/10 - The game isn't much on the replay, but other than that I can honestly say that it's 
 one of the best cross platform games to have come out between 2002 - 2004. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gugi_nayar
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 14, 2006 9:01 am PT
Review:  The Prince of Persia is quite a well-known name. Many of you might have played the earlier PoP 
 games but even if you haven't, no sweat, as you can easily get used to this game. It's one of those 
 games that can be played by anyone, anywhere, anytime. But, the great part about it is that it's 
 beautifully crafted and will keep you riveted for quite some time. Lets get more into it...
  
  The game's storyline, as is pretty obvious, is centralised around the Prince of Persia. The 
 Sands of Time takes place in a Middle Eastern environment which has a fantasy-feel to it. It's 
 almost like you're actually in a storybook. The Princes father is at war with a foreign land and 
 the Prince is fighting alongside him. During battle the prince sneaks into the castle and deep 
 into a secret vault where he discovers the Dagger of Time. This is where the trouble starts. 
 
  
  The Prince brings the Dagger back to show it to his father and finds him, as the victor in the 
 battle, admiring all his captured wealth. The king's evil advisor, the Vizier tells the Prince 
 about an even greater treasure and persuades him to smash the Dagger into a giant hourglass. The 
 sand starts blowing from the hourglass, and suddenly, everything starts going wrong. Everyone in 
 the city is converted into sand creatures and only three survivors are left, the Prince, the Vizier 
 and a young woman named Farah. Now it is up to the Prince to right his wrongs and what follows 
 is a series of puzzles, sword-fighting and tones of cool moves.
  
  Besides the cause of destruction, the Dagger serves other important purposes as well. It is the 
 key to destroying the evil and aids the Prince on his mission. It also makes him nearly immortal 
 . In most cases, if the Prince is met with an untimely death he can use the Dagger to "rewind" 
 the course of time to a point prior to his death. Each use of this ability costs a "sand tank," 
 which can be found along the normal course of the game. You won't normally run out of them, but, 
 even if you do there's no need to worry as the game will restart from a recent location and not 
 from the beginning, so you're encouraged to finish the game.. 
  
  An amusing feature is that should the prince die at a certain point during the game, you'll hear 
 him say, as narrator, something like, "No, that's not how it happened." This strengthens the storybook 
 theme and makes you push forward more to find out how the story turns out. Also when you save the 
 game, you get sort of a vision of the future events which is also quite great.
  
  The combat system is simple but still quite amazing. The Prince performs many cool and nearly super-human 
 moves throughout the game, but it is easy to get the hang of it. The controls are quite simple 
 enough and a combination of a few buttons will make you a pro at controlling the acrobatic Prince. 
 The only thing you need to perform the many gravity-defying moves is timing. It's not too much 
 of a problem and as said earlier, is easy to get the hang of. Despite all the amazing moves the 
 Prince is able to pull off, he still looks and feels like a real human being. The designing of 
 this character has been done to perfection.
  
  There's quite a large variety of enemies for you to get through but they won't offer much of a 
 resistance earlier on and are easy to defeat. When you're nearing the end, the difficulty does 
 tend to rise up a notch and you'll have to use all your arsenal of moves and attacks learnt in 
 the course of the game. If however you do fall to the enemies, there's your trusty Dagger to give 
 you another shot at them. Also there are fountains at regular intervals, whose water will heal 
 when drunk.
  
  The story doesn't have many side-turns and nearly moves in a linear direction as the Prince's story 
 is set and it is up to you to follow it. There are many puzzles to solve during the play. Again 
 they're easy to do once you've gotten the hang of the game. Most of the puzzles involve manipulating 
 light by moving around objects, like mirrors or pillars, in order to open an entrance into a new 
 area. There will be times when you will be required to take the help of Farah as she's skinnier 
 and more flexible than the Prince and is a great help in getting through cramped places and pushing 
 up levers and such to open up the further path. 
  
  There's not much of a difficulty level for this game and the combat does tend to get more and more 
 repetitive. Its the truly amazing graphic and sound features which make the game truly amazing. 
 
  
  The graphic detailing is really amazing and this is game is a treat for the eyes. It is really 
 entertaining to watch the little cut-scenes of the game. The background detailing is also great 
 and every new room or place you walk in is a new world. The surroundings are bathed in a soft light 
 and give you a real feel of Middle Eastern environment The Prince has also been detailed to perfection. 
 He seems very human and his movements are very smooth. 
  
  Not to be left out is the exceptional audio feature of the game. The game sounds great and the 
 same goes for the dialog. The conversations between characters are fun to hear. The game has a 
 truly memorable Midi-Eastern soundtrack and the battle music is also amazing.
  
  The only point where the game lacks is that it doesn't have much replay value. Its riveting the 
 first time you play but there's nothing more in it to replay again. There aren't many bonus missions 
 in the PC version and playing the game again doesn't offer anything more than what you would have 
 already experienced the first time round. But, for the 10-15 hours it'll take you to beat the game, 
 you'll really enjoy it.
  
  Overall its a great game and really, you should play it if you already haven't. Trust me, its 
 a real treat.
  
  Go Play!! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: LordOfTheTower
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 6, 2006 11:52 am PT
Review:  This game really took me off my feet, the graphics are stunning, the music is superb, and the game 
 play is tremendous.
  
  At first glance i thought it was going to be just a puzzle game with a few baddies to kill and 
 a few stunts, Boy Was I Wrong! ( I was actually thinking of not buying it, but my good sense of 
 a good game told to buy it)
  
  The fights that you encounter are truly remarkable, there is a lot of tactics in there i admit, 
 but thats what i like about it, you got to use your head and not just go straight in and slash 
 away, that will just get you killed (unless the enemy is really stupid which is highly unlikely) , 
 and the ai is very good, they actually block your attacks and so its not just you stabbing them, 
 then blocking, stabbing, then blocking and then finishing them off, you actually have what i would 
 call a proper fight. At times it is hard, trying to fight off 4 enemies at once (not to mention 
 they respawn after they die, only a few times though) but this is good because you can experiment 
 with lots of different attack techniques but more importantly different attack combo's, these include:
 
  Running up a wall and lunging yourself and your sword into the enemy,
  Jumping over the enemy and attacking him multiple times in the air,
  Freezing them with your 
 dagger of time
  Tripping them over with your sword and them apply the final blow,
  and many many more.
  
  Those were just some of the stunts you can perform on enemies, you can 
 do many more when not fighting like running along walls and jumping off onto a bar, jumping form 
 pillar to pillar, jumping up to opposite walls to get to the top and many many more.
  
  On the puzzle side it is much better and much harder than i thought, there are many puzzles in 
 the game which are all different from each other which means you have to think a lot but they are 
 not too difficult, but the whole game is really a puzzle in its self, when you enter a new area, 
 you have to solve how to get what ever you need in that room and you need to solve how to get to 
 the next room.
  
  The whole story line is great, they couldn't have made it better, but there is one feature to this 
 game that just makes it extra special, that is the dagger of time, and having the ability to put 
 time in slow motion if things get to fast paced and you can even re-wind time to undo a mistake 
 like if you get sliced by a pop out sword from the wall and die, you just hold down a button and 
 let go when you have gone back far enough, and then you run down the corridor and roll under the 
 sword.
  
  I would say this game couldn't be improved at all, even if they tried to give it better graphics 
 it wouldn't make any difference.
  
  Pros: Stunning Graphics,
  Unbeatable Music,
  Amazing Game play,
  Dozens Of Great Stunts,
  Easy To Get Used To,
  A Mixture Of Easy And 
 Hard Tasks To Do,
  Amazingly Detailed Landscapes, Buildings And Objects
  
  Cons: Not A Lot They Could Have Done To Improve This Game,
  I Guess Only To Have Made It Longer 
 And To Touch Up On The Detail
  Of The Characters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jward23
Rating: 6.8
Date: May 25, 2006 6:08 pm PT
Review:  I found the controls very difficult on a PC. Whenever there is a switch to grab on a ladder to 
 climb, I found it very difficult to run straight at the ladder or switch to grab it or climb it. 
 I often would have to try several times to grab it. The prince would often run off at a an angle 
 rather that straight toward the item.
  
  Combat I found very difficult with the vault attack, it seemed half the time the prince would just 
 jump without vaulting. I think this was due to the fact that I would be facing my opponent at an 
 angle and it would be fine line whether the w or a key needed to be pressed to vault in the right 
 direction. I also had the same problem with the wall attack. I tried all directions without much 
 luck. The only way for me to perform the attacks consistently was to make sure the prince was squared 
 up with the wall and the opponent, which takes time and patience.
  
  The other difficulty was with the camera. The camera never stays still and is constantly changing 
 angles. This means that when you are heading in one direction and the camera angle changes, all 
 the direction keys change. So you might be walking backwards, the camera swings and suddenly you 
 walking into your opponents instead of away. This happens a lot. It was especially problematic 
 in fights.
  
  I don't know if this is because I was using a keyboard, maybe it's better with a game pad or joystick? 
 I know most people have already played this game, but just wanted to point this out.
  
  The graphics are good and the game is fun, but the controls take away most of the fun and makes 
 it frustrating. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neerajkumar_4
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 24, 2006 9:09 am PT
Review:  Prince of Persia: Sands of time:- 
  
  By,
  Scorpio_gamer a. k. a Neerajkumar_4
  
  Introduction:-
  
  Its about a prince whos kingdom is in grave danger, he goes through lot 
 of difficulties to save his father and his kingdom with the help of a sweet girl named Sarah. His 
 fathers assistant, vizier, betrays him to this whole mess! The story and the gameplay are very 
 cool! 
  
  Gameplay:-
  
  In this game, you have some thing called slow motion and reverse time and rapid time motion. I 
 think all these things are self-explanatory. Our protagonist, the prince of Persia is very athletic 
 and very skilled, he performs a various range of moves to kill his enemies. You can cut them in 
 halves. :D ! You have few puzzles n very interesting puzzles to be solved. The game is very challenging.
 
  
  Graphics:-
  
  The graphics are nice but its all kinda animation not much of realistic stuff. Still the game rocks.
 
  
  Sound:-
  
  Sound is pretty cool! Youll enjoy the game very much!!
  
  Conclusion:-
  
  The game is Short so you may be kinda bored after that but dont forget to 
 unlock the secret ORIGINAL Prince of Persia game. Its a must buy title! Its one of the best of 
 the series! If u have a controller the game is more easy to play !
  
  
  Graphics - 9/10
  
  Sound- 8/10
  
  Gameplay- 8/10
  
  Story-Line- 10/10
  
  Overall- 
 9/10
  
  
  Scorpio_gamer:- 
 Remember there is NO such thing as GAME OVER!!
  So keep GAMING.!!
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mariololada
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 19, 2006 5:45 am PT
Review:  For delight of all those that had passed hours grasped to the adventures 2D of the Prince of the 
 Prsia, the Ubi Canada caught the soul of the Saga. To the first sight, Sands of Teams will be 
 able to seem one complicadssimo heading of platforms. But it is not. Although the prince to practise 
 most spectacular, and complicated, of the movements, the Ubisoft created one simple and highly 
 intuitiva mechanics extremely. Many hours of game to obtain are not necessary to run for the walls, 
 to jump for ropes placed to many meters of the ground or to walk to the pole pulls in pole, of 
 somewhat simiesca form. They believe us, although definitive moments to cause great vertigos, and 
 some squeezes in the stomach, rare had been the heights where in we tore into pieces them in the 
 ground! We come back to say, the difficulty is in discovering the form to go of the point To the 
 o point B of the scene. E exactly thus, had the points of save capsizes folloied for some sight 
 the future, the supplied tracks is more than many. Therefore, nothing of very difficult. How much 
 to the combats, they are pleasant and they reach moments of great espectacularidade? much due to 
 possibility to place the share in slow-motion and of we will use the Haze, special movement that, 
 if used well, finishes with the existence of a vast number of enemies. Unhappyly the chamber is 
 not famous, .causing of some deaths.
  Passing to the graphical department, we are before a gorgeous game, for alem of the extraordinary 
 scenes, we can detach the construction of the levels. How much to the longevity, we are before 
 one 15 hours of game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ammbasador
Rating: 9
Date: May 15, 2006 8:24 am PT
Review:  This was on of the best games of 2003 in console version. Now the wall-running comes to PC.
  When a young prince and his father defeats a mighty emperor, the young-one wants to show his skills 
 and courage by stealing the Dagger of Time from the emperor. But enough of the story. Lets go to 
 the action.
  
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  GAMEPLAY
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  10/10
  Ten out of ten? How? I`ll tell you. The combat system isn`t very deep. But you can use the environment 
 and there are many moves when you are out of combat. Wall-running, jumping from side to side, using 
 the force of time to get out of traps with slo-mo. It is great. And in combat you can run over 
 enemy, freeze him, jump at the wall and then attack him with a full speed, us counter attacks....
 
  
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  GRAPHICS 
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  9/10
  
  Quite nice. The final levels are extra nice. Animation is sweet. Character models, special effects 
 backgrounds- all in the level.
  
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  SOUND
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  9/10
  
  Great voice acting, beautifull music. But the best music is at the end- persian rock.
  
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  STORY
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  9/10
  Well, you can think (in start) that there is no special story. A prince and a girl named Farah travels 
 in BIG, BIG palace, and tries to get the Sands back. But deeper is a story of love, betrayal, forgiving (because 
 loving the betrayer) , trying to save everything that is possible even at the cost of one's own 
 life. And in the end- trying to undo his biggest mistake- rushing for honor and glory.
  
  THE BIGGEST -
  The game is short (less then 10 hours and there isn`t to big reason to come back. 
 But the first time (and the last, I think) is the greatest adventure of them all. Here the story 
 ends. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anzelm
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 29, 2006 4:22 am PT
Review:  PoP SoT is the first game of a trilogy with the Prince as the main character. The trilogy is based 
 on the old NES and computer game. You unleash the sands of time in an effort to impress your father. 
 The events don't play out as planed though. Your father and his army get turned into sand creatures 
 and you find yourself fighting for your life to try to change the events of time. You have Farah, 
 a princess of the maharajah, as your companion through the adventure.
  
  The graphics is great and the music helps to create the right feeling. The game has an interesting 
 story and some really fun game play. The princes acrobatic moves is fun to watch and just to find 
 the right way is a puzzle in it self. 
  
  The control is quite simple and intuitive and you get a good in game tutorial if you want to. 
 
  
  This is a must play game if you're in to action and adventure mixed with puzzle solving. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hethegreat
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 27, 2006 4:59 pm PT
Review:  Prince of Persia (PoP) 50% Action 10% Adventure 50% Strategy A
  
  Hey, hold up, wait a minute. Action, adventure, and strategy can't add up to 100%. I did this because 
 there really isn't any adventure to the game, but it is done so well that it feels like there is 
 some. 
  
  The action in the game is quite entertaining. Having several different attack combos, which are 
 handled in a way that is intuitive. Many of the attacks and doges I did without thinking and they 
 could be done easily. I did have to get used to blocking, which when learned can be vary helpful 
 and fun. 
  The strategy comes in with a lot of dodging of traps, jumps, wall scaling, and time control. The 
 game gives you the feel of being able to go where you could in really life. I do have a complaint 
 that when walking along a ledge against a wall pieces of the ledge will fall off, but those areas 
 you are not allowed to walk on; this includes before the pieces show any sign of coming off, where 
 is the danger in that? 
  
  The dagger. Have you ever heard of Blinx the Cat? When I first heard that time was controllable, 
 I thought that would be a fun game. Once I played it, I found that controlling of the time was 
 done poorly. When I heard about PoP's ability to control time I thought, "I sure hope they did 
 it right." and they have. There is supposed to be a way to freeze the world but I have not gotten 
 that to happen and I beat the game. One thing I find funny, you don't start with the dagger but 
 you have a sword. Once a battle is completed you go to put the sword away, and at the same time 
 the dagger, oh, you don't have one. 
  
  The story was a great part of the game. With an ending left open for a sequel but satisfying enough 
 there is no need to play the sequel unlike Beyond Good & Evil. The story's potential is also not 
 unleashed until the very end of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jonnyboy1219
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 20, 2006 1:32 pm PT
Review:  How do you remake one of the greatest games of all time? Well, I feel that this new direction for 
 the Prince of Persia title did a great job living up to its namesake. The Sands of Time doesn't 
 wait around for you to learn a back story, it just throws you straight into the action in a almost 
 Catcher in Rye way of narrorating. The voice acting, and all of the sounds in general are great. 
 And over the course of the game you can really see the prince mature from a young selfish brat, 
 into a fighter who takes time to analyse the stituation and has control over his feelings, well 
 for the most part. Then there is Farah, the prince's lovely side-kick. Whoever designed her deffinately 
 did not get out of their mother's bsement to much because she is perfect, for a computer character. 
 She adds just the right amount plot line help eventhough there are occasions where her being there 
 gets in the way. The one thing and I won't spoil the ending, is that the end was terrible. It just 
 leaves you there wanting more. Even though the game has been out for a while, and there are two 
 sequals, which I haven't played because my computer won't run them, I can see how the prince can 
 turn into a true classic character. I loved this game and think it should go down in the hall of 
 fame. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eeshanmu
Rating: 4.9
Date: Apr 15, 2006 9:46 pm PT
Review:  Thre are No Great Stunts Like In POP Warrior Withn AND No Play Value The Game Is so Boring AND 
 There Are Hardly 2 Bosess In The Game One Is Our Own Father And The Seckond Is The Vizer. Sands 
 Of Time Gameplay Is Horrible ANd The User Does Not Get Any Meaning From The Game. The Game Cant 
 Even Rensder Good Sound. The Best Game Of The Series Would Be Prince Of Persia Warrior Withen The 
 Seckond Best hould Be he Two Thrones AND The worst Should Be The Sands Of Time. The Graphics Are 
 Very Good The Sound Is Quite Bad AND The Gamer Experince The OK 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ericscot
Rating: 6.2
Date: Mar 25, 2006 10:04 pm PT
Review:  I suppose all of this has been said, but I'm so frustrated with this game, I have to write about 
 it. 
  
  As it's doubtful I'll ever buy a console system, I always applaud developer's PC adaptation efforts. 
 But in certain cases, the controls are so geared for console play, we keyboard/mouse combo users 
 have to bite our tongues and make do. Such is the case with POP. The Gamespot reviewer noted that 
 the adaptation causes some very minor consternation, but I'll have to disagree and call it mild 
 to extreme, depending on the situation. On the mild side, the camera angles get awkward and it's 
 hard to maneuver your character in tight spaces. On the extreme side, certain life or death moves 
 are dependent on pointing your character in the right direction. Sometimes, it's just not clear 
 which button will face which direction. There's one scene involving navigating some narrow walls 
 balance beam style, fighting birds, then trying to race back through the balancing act before a 
 door closes. The camera is so fussy at this stage that I'll think I'm aiming my character at the 
 correct jump, but he'll end up falling to his death instead. To top it off, when you finally die 
 after running out of rewinds, you have to perform the whole aggravating sequence again.
  
  I feel a little guilty ranting about such a beautifully designed game because it really has some 
 excellent features, great graphics, and a unique playing style. But spending an hour on a single 
 scene because the controls are just too difficult to finesse takes a lot of the fun out of the 
 game. I hate to admit, but I was desperate for cheat codes an hour into it. Instant saves would 
 have done wonders as well. Find a good controller, or just play on the consoles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alvarinho
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 25, 2006 11:39 am PT
Review:  I very much enjoyed this game... well at least when there was not fighting involved. Dont get me 
 wrong the fighting is very well done, with a nice balance of buttons mashing and thinking, but 
 eventually it becomes the same over and over again and a tad hard (although thats probably just 
 me since action games arent really my "fort") . Take the fighting off and the rest of the game 
 is truly awesome. From the puzzles to the graphics and story, everything works. I definitely recomend 
 this games specially to the action buffs out there, and even if youre not one of those there is 
 also something for you here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raghav2005
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 17, 2006 11:54 am PT
Review:  PS: Read my PS2 review first...
  
  A huge hit!! 
  This is one of my most favorite games.... its awesome design and gameplay are worth watching!!
 
  
  Though i bought this game first on pc cd-rom i think the ps2 version is better....
  
  I got a good PS2 collection. I also got one on the PC... infact i got more pc games... but still 
 i got more or less the same feel... so i have given the same feel as i have in the ps2 section... Read 
 on      
  
  Many games get in my pocket every year... But I must write a little about Prince of Persia, because 
 it's clever. It's got a clever story. It has a clever story which actually fits in with the gameplay 
 and the gimmick. And how the heck often does that happen? 
  
  Of course I can't say anything about the story, because anything I said would be a spoiler. And 
 I certainly don't want to spoil anything this clever. So I'll just say that it goes a step beyond 
 the ordinary action-game frame story, and then a step beyond that. And now I'll talk about other 
 stuff instead. 
  
  Prince of Persia is an action game, not an adventure game. You spend most of your time exploring 
 environments and solving jump-and-climb environment puzzles; most of the rest of your time is spent 
 fighting sand demons. Plot and character are worked into the cracks, in cut scenes and voice-overs. 
 Nothing groundbreaking about that. 
  
  But it's a good story. I kept saying "Oh, how neat!" -- about the events I was seeing, not just 
 about the (terrific) visuals. The designer really put in the effort to make an action-game plot 
 into something more than ordinary. Simple game-mechanical requirements, like pause screens and 
 save points and powerups, kept turning interesting. And then turning interesting again, after I 
 thought I'd gotten used to the gimmick. And then coming together with story elements, to become 
 even more interesting.
  
  The tremendous half-ruined desert fortress which you slowly work your way up through. The long, 
 hazy vistas visible from the windows and roofs. The radiant sunlight, which pools and glows around 
 the edges of things... okay, Ico did that better. Ico had a purer, simpler visual aesthetic, which 
 worked well for its wordless fairy-tale motif. Persia tends towards the complex and opulent. But 
 still very, very pretty. 
  
  Also, very very big. The fortress has a lot of up. By the last few scenes, I was feeling acrophobic. 
 (The sense of danger is heightened by a subtle trick: the game's save-points, which are generously 
 salted through most of the game, are quite far apart in that last long roof-climb.
  
  I think the designers managed it by making the controls approximate and forgiving, rather than 
 precise and rigid. You don't have to have pinpoint timing to pull off all the jumping and swinging 
 and bouncing that you need for this game. You have to hit the button at close to the right time, 
 yes. But there's a fair margin for error -- the stunt always comes out perfect, unless you're off 
 by a mile. Result: I was bouncing around like a crazed juggler, and I felt perfectly confident 
 and in control. Score one for good interface design. 
  
  The fight scenes are more frustrating. I always find it a little sad, when I play a game like this: 
 I know there are people who would appreciate the story and the exploration, but who can't manage 
 the fight skills. 
  
  But still the ending got me plop my eyes out!!!.... I liked the characters ... but still these are 
 not upto the mark...
  
  Anyway this is another spectacular game ever made!!!......... i think its really worth playing!!! 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: royzentner
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 8, 2006 11:59 am PT
Review:  This wonderful effort by Ubisoft to revive one of the world's best classics has brought us an astonishing 
 multi-platformed action packed trilogy. Although this is the place to write for Sands of Time, 
 I will review this trilogy as one big entertainment pack.
  It will take you on a journey of a prince in search of, well, eventually himself, and his place 
 in life. Sands of Time will introduce you to a young and naive Prince of Persia who happens to 
 take control of the dagger of time, thus being able to do some time tricks like rewinding it or 
 slowing it down. In Sands of Time, the prince (or you) will have to use the head more than anything, 
 which fits directly into the charecteristics of the young, agile, athletic and ambitious prince. 
 You will come upon various puzzles that will require planning, timing and thinking.
  The sequel, Warrior Within, will show you a darker and more mature side of the same prince, who 
 has become blood-thirsty and can't hide his need for vengeance. This game will have a lot more 
 fighting involved and you'll be using a lot of the prince's muscles. While reminiscing the relatively 
 soft BG music of Sands of Time, you will hear some Godsmack songs in Warrior Within. The latter 
 is the longest and hardest game of the three, but in my opinion, the most entertaining as well. 
 You will also travel through time in this game, going back and forth to past and present versions 
 of the same surroundings. I thought it was a really cool and original addition.
  In the third game, The Two Thrones, there will be a nice combination of fighting and puzzle solving, 
 as well as some new interesting chase sequences and more boss fights. In this game, you will actually 
 use your heart to understand and learn from your past mistakes. Along the battles and puzzles, 
 you will also have to fight yourself, or maybe your inner 'you' in some sort of sub-conscious self 
 struggle. Things will get pretty interesting when this struggle will actually change you phisically.
 
  Through this journey from innocence to vengeance and then understanding, you will probably think 
 to yourself what will you do with your life when you're done playing this trilogy. If that thought 
 will keep you up at nights, I suggest you go and start over the trilogy on a harder playing mode.
 
  
  In the end, this trilogy is worth every penny!! so get a copy of it ASAP!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theunwn
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 5, 2006 3:42 am PT
Review:  Welcome to the most overhyped game in gaming history. What is so great about this game is I have 
 yet to understand. The levels are generic and the color palette is similar throughout the game. The 
 combat is repetitive and lacklustre. There are not many enemy types, and hardly any good boss encounters.
 
  It seems that ubisoft put all its weight on all major publications and magazines to give this 
 game a good review?. Just to give you an idea, Tomb Raider II is about 6 
  years old and it had different locations in all the levels. 
  All in all this game sucks and 
 the platforming bits are a 
  tedious bore. Avoid at all costs, and save your money for any upcoming third person action/adventure. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrAbs
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 2, 2006 8:33 am PT
Review:  I had a great amount of pleasure playing this game. This is one of the better games I played recently.
 
  
  The game is about the prince retrieving a dagger that has the ability to control time. After a 
 war the prince brings the Sands of time and the dagger together turning everyone into sand monsters.
 
  
  You have to fight, jump, shimmy and balance your way through amazingly well design and super beautiful 
 sets.
  
  The stages are very well designed and it is really one of the best looking games I have played. 
 Enormous stages and rooms you pass through get even bigger the further you go. You are amazed by 
 every room. When you think it can't get any better, swing your way into another room, and boom.
 
  
  The dialogue between the prince and his helper slash girlfriend is really funny and makes the experience 
 even better than it already is.
  
  The fighting styles are great. Some wicked combos you can do as well. I just son't know how I do 
 most of the moves. I just click ahead and there he goes slashing away.
  
  Great game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: n0s2004
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 28, 2006 8:48 pm PT
Review:  Once in a while a game comes that is so damn good that it gets overlooked. This is the case with 
 Sands 0f Time, after PoP 3D no one expected this game to be so great, but it's all that & a bag of 
 chips. The best action adventure ever.
  
  Graphically it's one of the best looking games of it's time. Sound is spot on with the music, voice 
 acting & other sounds being most impressive. Gameplay is no exception either. This game isn't very 
 long & not much to play again but no game is good enough to stand against it.
  
  The best aspect of the game is the time powers which allow you to rewind, slow time & freeze your 
 enemies. If it wasn't for them & the presentation of this game then it might not have been as good 
 as it is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sam_2006
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 24, 2006 2:10 pm PT
Review:  Prince of Persia: sands of time is absolutely fantastic and i cannot tell how much fun i had playing 
 this great game! First i was impressed by the beautiful graphics that drove me crazy indeed, and 
 then I was taken away by the super-fun game play and the amazing story of the brave prince of Persia. 
 Just great and it feels good to have such games in your computer-desk waw...!! and to top it all 
 off, I was amazed by the great music that Ubi-soft chose for its baby ... a great ,Arabic and orient 
 style that added much to the beauty of the game. I played this game and I was extremely happy with 
 all its aspects ... just excellent brilliant and fun !!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yazon
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 24, 2006 9:26 am PT
Review:  This game made a real revolution in Action Adventure games! The newest gameplay, graphics and video 
 made this game the real idol for those who are just started developing game!
  The story about young Prince starting his adult life from trying to bring honor and glory to his 
 family, father and kingdom. But the Vizier had ruined all he belived in and all he trusted. The 
 Sands of time thats all the Vizier is for but the Dagger of Time - the only key to them is in the 
 hands of the young and naive Prince of Persia. Help him to defeat cruel traitor and finally bring 
 honour and glory to the lands of Persia!
  If you are fond of Adventure games you MUST play it! Feel the atmocphere of the ancient Persia. 
 Enjoy the beautifull environments and amazing soundtrack.
  JUST PLAY AND ENJOY IT!!!!!
  
  Tahir "Yazon" Tillyaev. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: X-Strike
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 22, 2006 12:30 am PT
Review:  Pros: Prince of Persia is back in full glorie! After a misstep in the form of Prince of Perisa 
 3D, is the prins back for a new adventure. This is one of the best platform/adventures i've ever 
 played. Played the game in one time, it's just perfect fun. The swordfights, the puzzles, the acrobatics 
 and the time affecting options mkae this game a real classic. The graphics engine is beautifull 
 and the controls are very good. It's a must play! 
  
  Cons: The camera can sometimes be a hazard. Some acrobatic jumps etc. seem to be impossible and 
 can get very stressfull. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 00chaos8
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 18, 2006 5:01 pm PT
Review:  Prince of Persia is a great and solid action/adventure game because of the combat system in the 
 game is awesome. The combos in this game is fun, like using the dagger of time to slow down time 
 and etc. I like when your guy dies or takes massive damage because you can reverse time and then 
 prevent whatever killed you or damage you, it's very unique but its limited. But it's just not 
 the fighting in the game that makes this game great. Also the sorts of puzzles and environments 
 you go through the game. Like climbing down walls at extreme heights, swinging on to bar to bar 
 above massive spikes and the extreme traps this game makes you go through. Prince of Persia is 
 a wonderful experience for any type of gamer that loves action/adventure games. But the only problem 
 in this game that the game is very short. Once you beat the game, you won't feel like you want 
 to play the game again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 22111993
Rating: 6.4
Date: Feb 12, 2006 12:19 pm PT
Review:  As it is the first in the series theres always gonna be more improvment in the two thrones and 
 warrior within. I dont llike the controls on the pc version (the one that im reviewing) there too 
 awkward i had to swith them around id say 8 times to get them completely right for my style of 
 gameplay. I like the puzzles in this game some are challenging some are not and i also like the 
 way you can rewind time and stuff. When i first played this game i thout the sansd cretures where 
 relativly hard. you take on the role of the prince (e doesnt reveal his name) . and you invade somwhere 
 i dont kbnow where and you set out to find the treasure vaults on the way yousee the dagger of 
 time and the prince wants it. you run accross walls run up walls avoid spikey polls and jump from 
 pole to pole and from wall to wall. you can drink from the water to increase your health. when 
 you get the dagger the prince press's a button on the dagger and doing so he protects himself from 
 a falling rock. then you see a video back in the prince's fathers castle. they then pull the hourglass 
 of time down breaking it and releasing the sands of time. then you find yourself in an open area 
 with the sand creatres defeat them and save your game. then youll have to chase a oman to find 
 out how she knew stuff about the dagger of time as she was shouting stuff about it lie use the 
 dagger to rewind time before you die and use the dagger to take his sands. I cant wait to get the 
 sequels hope there good pm me your oppinion and track me please 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BrGabriel
Rating: 4.5
Date: Feb 11, 2006 12:58 pm PT
Review:  This review really isn't going to say anything that hasn't been said before, but have been so disappointed 
 with this game that I thought it would be cathartic to write a review. My only consolation is that 
 I bought a bargain bin version so didn't spend much on it.
  
  SoT looks good, sounds reasonable and for some sections plays reasonably. However for the most 
 part the camera angles are random and often useless and the controls are counter-intuitive and 
 clumsy. The combination of these two issues, together with the checkpoint/limited save structure 
 makes what should be straightforward jump and climb sequences into tediously difficult exercises 
 in bloody-mindedness where control failures lead to one slogging through the same section over 
 and over again. Indeed the problems with the controls in the PC version are so blindingly obvious 
 that I wonder if they were left in on purpose by the designers to try and make the game more 'challenging'.
 
  
  This port is a great example of why some games really are left on consoles, where they actually 
 work. I strongly suggest that you don't buy the PC version and go for the console option instead, 
 which I am assured is excellent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrLaskowski
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 7, 2006 7:55 am PT
Review:  I found this game to be pretty entertaining. I looked at the commercials for the new prince of 
 persia game and thought it looked interesting, but I thought that maybe it would be better to play 
 the first two before I bought the third. I found the first two on amazon for about 8 bucks apiece. 
 Sands of time is a good game, interesting enough, but it seems like it is a bit contrite in the 
 fact that there is very few ways to solve some problems, you almost seem to have to know exactly 
 what the game developers want you to do. In a game like that it should be better if there were 
 many different ways to solve these problems. Great graphics, I enjoy how your combat style needs 
 to evolve, as the game goes on. The story is fun as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CooLa_M
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 22, 2006 10:17 am PT
Review:  The 4th in PoP Series (If we count DOS games) . Story is interesting, and highly addictive, it draws 
 player to play more and more to unwrap the plot. Gameplay is very interesting 'cause of the "time" 
 powers you gain. The whole time concept is inovative and opens a wide array of gameplay posibillities. 
 But game becomes generic after some time, you avoid traps, fight sand monsters, save and again 
 avoid traps... That is the whole gameplay. Controls are well made, except some odd camera angles. 
 Sound is a standard mediocracy. Few phrases that repeat infinitely. Music is a very positive thing 
 in this game, very well fit into it. The whole arabian-indian theme is superb! From a neutral POV 
 i have to say that the game doesn't have very high replay value, but from my POV it does. Story 
 is kinda epic, and it drew me to play it again and again contrary to the very boring gameplay. 
 Overall I recommend you to play this game... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stivspyder
Rating: 5.8
Date: Jan 19, 2006 3:31 pm PT
Review:  Would be a great game if the camera angles did not adjust themselves constantly. It's very hard 
 to fight when all you can see is the wall your character is next to. I gave up in anger several 
 times. Even the fixed camera option was not very helpful. Even when you adjust the camera angle 
 the AI snaps it back to where it wants it to be. At that point, why even have the option to adjust 
 the angle at all?! Also causes problems when you are exiting a room headed down and the angle adjusts 
 to the exact opposite so you end up right back in the room. Bad enough to knock off 3 points! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: terryprior
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 17, 2006 7:17 am PT
Review:  The story fits right into the tradition of the series. After the Prince steals the Dagger of Time, 
 a sinister Vizier tricks the Prince into opening a magical hourglass, unleashing the Sands of Time 
 on the Sultan's kingdom. The Sands are driven by an primordial need to track down anything that 
 lives and convert it into a horrid sand creature. Your mission, playing the role of the Prince, 
 is to find a way to rectify this terrible predicament and defeat evil, a task that will take all 
 the ingenuity you have. The plot is excellent and engrossing, and you just cannot help but get 
 wrapped up in it. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: wiliuzl
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 14, 2006 4:11 am PT
Review:  I played all prince of persia parts, but this is the best for me, je-je i know in sands of time 
 no free fighting system, less monsters, BUT prince is good real hero, not like in warrior within 
 or two thrones. This game is more short like other parts (warrior within, the two thrones) but 
 i finish it in 11h i think ant it sin't too little for me. i dont know how to others, but i say: 
 Prince of persia : sands of time RULEZzzZ!!!
  
  p. s i will play this game no less than two times in future, it is just too good to put it in chest 
 and lock for ages.
  
  Thanks, wiliuzl 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zain_45
Rating: 6.4
Date: Jan 1, 2006 3:27 am PT
Review:  I bought this game and i must say that the story was amazing.... brilliant (Thats what i like the 
 most of it) and the graphics was ver well done also . These were the 2 things which i loved about 
 that game.
  
  Now what i didnt like about the game is that the combat structure was pretty repetative........ it 
 was cool in the beginning and then it became repetative later on as i played later on........
 
  
  And one more thing was that there was a sound problem, it wasnt very loud i guess ........ but 
 then maybe thats because of my PC sound card or the drivers otherwise it did have great ound effects.
 
  
  The combat/fighting is not hard at all.......... but what was hard was the puzzeles like finding 
 a way or how to get a door open............ that did kill me........... i had to take help from 
 a walkthough to complete this game.
  
  And again the gamepay wa good for the first time but once u complete it u may not just think of 
 playing it again because it the same thing again and again.............. and it gets boring later 
 on.
  
  Thats all i can say for the game i gue.......... nothing more than that 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SZeroC
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 30, 2005 3:21 am PT
Review:  Prince of Persia: The Sands of Time, the latest release from developer Ubisoft, takes you to the 
 mythical Middle East for a magic carpet ride of swashbuckling sword fights and death-defying stunts 
 across a vast city full of intrigue and mystery.
  
  The story revolves around a young prince (who remains unnamed throughout the game) whose father 
 has invaded and conquered a nearby Indian (dots not feathers) Maharajas land. While surveying 
 the spoils of war found inside the conquered Maharajas vault, the young prince finds and takes 
 a special dagger found amidst the rest of the treasure.
  
  This dagger is actually a key to a massive, glowing hourglass containing the magical Sands of Time. 
 Later, when this hourglass is found amidst the treasures of the conquered Maharajas vault, it 
 and many other plundered treasures are taken to a nearby city as a gift to that citys king.
  
  It is here that the young prince is persuaded by a conniving vizier to place his dagger into 
 the hourglass. This small act unleashes the devastating power of the Sands of Time, leaving the 
 entire city devastated and the majority of its PoPulation horribly mutated and zombified.
  
  Protected from the effect of the sands by the dagger he holds, the prince flees, only to find 
 Farah, the daughter of the conquered Maharaja, amidst the ruins of the city. Farah, having been 
 enslaved and made into a concubine, becomes the princes unlikely ally.
  
  Together, they must fight against countless enemies, scale seemingly impossible ruins, avoid the 
 devious vizier, and search everywhere for the solution that will reverse the devastation that has 
 been done.
  
  The game play is much like that seen in the Tomb Raider series. There are several precipitous chasms 
 to be crossed, broken or painfully narrow ledges to traverse, and a number of daunting enemies 
 to take down. You will find a fair amount of puzzle-solving elements here and there, and some pretty 
 cool sword fighting to be engaged in as the prince makes his way through the massive and complex 
 ruins of the Indian city.
  
  Much like Lara Croft, the Prince has some serious high wire acrobatic skills to get him through 
 the perils before him. These moves would make your average Romanian gymnast green with envy. Throughout 
 the course of the game, the prince must perform some wall running across broken walkways, a lot 
 triangle jumps to waiting ropes or pressure plates, some breathtaking high bar acrobatics (we are 
 talking really high bar now, folks) , as well as a number of other moves to get him safely from 
 level to level.
  
  Occasionally, Farah and the prince will have to team up to handle certain puzzles. Examples include 
 rooms passable only by cooperative gameplay, where one of them stands on a pressure plate or hangs 
 from a release trigger to open a door for the other, who then must do the same in the next room. 
 Other puzzles consist of simple mazes or complicated machines requiring the prince to place levers 
 in a certain order so these massive devices can be activated.
  
  Interspersed between the gymnastic endeavors and puzzle-solving tasks are endless waves of enemies 
 that have to be taken down. Much of the time, players can expect to come up against several of 
 these rather large creatures at once, with more creatures respawning behind their fallen comrades. 
 Most of these creatures are former palace concubines, soldiers, or other city residents that have 
 been zombified by the Sands of Time and turned into hulking, sand-filled beasts.
  
  Yet, to the players advantage, the princes platform jumping skills are matched only by his fighting 
 skills. Players will find a myriad of moves available for use against enemies of any sort. Among 
 them is a nice scimitar combo for lesser enemies. The prince can also use his scimitar as an effective 
 defense against attack.
  
  There is a sweet vault move for leaping over enemies and slashing them down, though some enemies 
 can counter this move. To deal with them, a similar move has the prince leaping off walls for a 
 quick and deadly slash with his dagger. Yet another move is a dagger stab that will freeze your 
 enemies momentarily, allowing the prince to go in for an easy kill.
  
  In an interesting twist to the combat, players will find that, most of the time, the only way to 
 completely kill an enemy is a quick stab from your dagger after they go down. Otherwise, enemies 
 will just lay there for a minute, then revitalize and come at you again. This adds another dimension 
 to the fighting, as you struggle to deliver killer stabs to fallen enemies, while at the same time 
 dealing with the uninjured enemies still coming at you.
  
  Enemies will often disappear and respawn as you move your character around. This creates situations 
 where enemies are seemingly always surrounding you when fighting and makes combat seem much more 
 daunting than it really is. The truth is that most enemies are lumbering idiots, and their close 
 proximity to your character makes it all the more impressive to watch your character take out those 
 enemies in droves all at once.
  
  Should you find your life waning, you will find any nearby source of water will provide quick life 
 refreshment, as will several hidden portals found throughout the game that teleport the prince 
 to an ethereal fountain, where the prince will find his life refreshed and his life bar increased. 
 These portals are marked by wafting lace curtains accompanied by angelic music, and are usually 
 found at the end of side hallways or behind destructible walls.
  
  There are numerous save points interspersed through each level as well, with some becoming available 
 after the completion of major battles. These save points are handy, not only for the opportunity 
 to save, but also because of a brief flash-forward scene that appears at each save point. Here 
 one can view many of the up-coming obstacles and challenges and even get hints on how to overcome 
 them.
  
  By far the most handy feature for PoPs combat and acrobatic game play is your daggers time rewind 
 ability. Should you take a fatal blow or jump to your death, one can easily reverse time back to 
 a safe spot and try again. This is definitely a useful, though limited feature, necessitating the 
 occasional replenishment of your daggers rewind ability by either killing enemies or absorbing 
 areas of dagger energy found throughout most levels.
  
  Graphics in PoP are quite impressive and set the magical tone of the story and gameplay well. There 
 is a distinct haze in many areas, which gives a strange glow to fire and other light sources, and 
 makes for a very dream-like feel to everything.
  
  Certain ATI cards have a problem with this glow effect at the highest graphics settings. This issue 
 will make the game look like one giant blur. To fix this, simply set the graphical settings down 
 to medium. This should resolve this issue with little, if any, reduction in graphics quality.
 
  
  Your character has some very natural and lifelike animations associated with the complicated moves 
 he performs throughout the game. The princes combat moves possess a distinct martial arts influence, 
 much like how the graceful elegance of his acrobatic moves resemble those performed by Olympic 
 gymnasts.
  
  This attention to realism grounds the game in many ways by making the fighting and acrobatic portions 
 of the game more real and certainly much more fun to watch than the stiff, cardboard cutout moves 
 you find in similar games.
  
  Sound and dialogue is another great feature of PoP. A great deal of the dialogue is surprisingly 
 funny and lighthearted, consisting of playful banter exchanged between the prince and Farah. The 
 prince also has a tendency to talk to himself quite a bit, which can be fun to listen to as he 
 attempts to quell his own feelings for the beautiful Farah, and focus on the task at hand.
  
  There are many excellent ambient sound effects in PoP. Elements like the clash of swords, the 
 constant roar of a cavernous waterfall, and the crunch of the princes footsteps on the dusty ground 
 only deepen the quality of this game. Some nice EAX effects only richen an already exceptional 
 assortment of sounds with great echo and distance effects that complete the games realism.
  
  Music is sporadic, but nonetheless good in a kind of eclectic way. Consisting of traditional 
 Middle Eastern music mixed with a touch of western rock guitar riffs, it is an unusual but strangely 
 appropriate score that intensifies fighting well.
  
  Prince of Persia: The Sands of Time is an excellent game, packed full with very high production 
 values and a ton of action, fun gameplay, and great story from beginning to end. Though relatively 
 short (6-10 hours) , those hours are well spent and very satisfying after all is said and done. 
 Fans of the action/adventure genre should not miss out on this one.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: michael_delta
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 27, 2005 11:33 pm PT
Review:  As soon as I played this game, I was amazed!! Truly, I was so hooked that I never stopped playing 
 for the first 5 hours. And I was so satisfied that I played it again and again! I loved the voice 
 acting, loved the story, enviroments, and the animation was so smooth! I really recommend this 
 game to anyone who wants to try something new!
  
  This game is so innovative, putting so much animation on a character (wall running, hanging, pole 
 vaulting) now you might think that it's similar to Tomb Raider and other adventure games but because 
 of it's smooth gameplay, really, there is A BIG DIFFERENCE! 
  
  So the story goes as the Prince and his army decides to conquer an Indian army and steals the Sands 
 of Time. The Prince unfortuately unleashes the Sands causing havoc in the palace and now his only 
 way to stop this curse is to seal all the sands back again. But this task does not seem as easy 
 as it seems, he has to go through traps, monsters and an annoying princess whom you'll have to 
 take care of! But don't worry, you have the Dagger of Time, a special relic that allows you to 
 control time itself. So, in case you have a bad fall or anything of the sort, you can just "Rewind" 
 to the position where you are safe and so on! And that's not it, it would seem that the further 
 you progress, you'll recieve more time powers!! So grab your seat and get ready to play this amazing 
 amazing game!! 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GautamIyer
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 21, 2005 5:57 pm PT
Review:  Prince of Persia: Sands of time, is truly a fun and exciting game to play. I rather enjoyed the 
 jumping puzzles and the story was enough to keep me captivated for the entire duration of the game; 
 however, that was precisely one flaw -- it was too short. Another problem that I hope gets rectified 
 was the combat sequences. Although it set out to be exactly that of its intentions, I found them 
 tedious and tiring. Most of the time, I dreaded the battle scenes because they would take up too 
 much of what little time was remaining in the game. 
  
  I really liked the playful, verbal banter between the two characters and how their chemistry was 
 well integrated into the story. The ending was also quite spectacular as it seems to potentially 
 serve as a perfect prelude to its successsor. Overall, the gameplay could have been better and 
 in general, the game could have been longer; however, the story and puzzles definitely make up 
 for those two inherent flaws. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Flamingo121
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 9, 2005 3:05 pm PT
Review:  Everyone knows that there aren't many true adventrue games on the PC. After all we need to leave 
 room for yet anotehr war based first person shooter or another madden game thats seems ever so 
 familiar to the last one. But enter Prince of Persia: The Sands of Time. Arguably the best action 
 adventure game on the PC and one of my favorite adventure games of all time. The story line is 
 great, immersive and intriguing. Grpahic presentation is fabulous, although why the game comes 
 with support for resolutions of up to 2800 x 2200 we'll never know. The sountrack is great and 
 changes according to wahts going on. Control is a dream. While it may seem akward at first (the 
 game des have a steep learning curve) soon you'll be performing the princes killer moves without 
 any trouble what so all. THe thing i enjoyed most of all in this game is the level desing, something 
 I feel its sequels lost in order to improve the combat system. Levels look beautiful, are large, 
 expansive and expertly thought out. (but I must say some puzzles are very challenging indeed.) 
 This game is great, and if your like me and want to play an excellent adventure game without ahving 
 to pull out your old N64, the this game is for you. I recommend it to everyone and anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: diope_agresija
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 24, 2005 12:33 am PT
Review:  Prince of Persia : The Sands of Time is old-school game with typical jumping and puzzle elements 
 with great action and this magic triangle is the key of success. Programmers managed to connect 
 all these into one fun cocktail and spending time playing this game is worth. You will be pleasant 
 suprised when you try to get trouhg all these platforming elements because it's incredible fluid. 
 You'll feel just like you're watching some movie while playing this game. Graphic, sound and all 
 other elements are very good and you'll spend some time until you get trough all parts of this 
 beautifull game. Pure gold. Great job! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oamorap
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 19, 2005 11:00 am PT
Review:  Nada que ver con el Prince Of Persia antiguo, aunque ese tambien fue muy bueno.
  
  Este POP es una obra de arte, una pieza de coleccin que no debe faltar en la juegoteca de nadie 
 que se crea videojugador o gamer (como dicen los gringos) . El juego es muy entretenido y la versin 
 en espaol es muy graciosa (no se en ingles) .
  
  Lo malo, es corto y facil, pero eso no le quita lo espectacular graficamente y la historia tan 
 pero tan bien contada, ademas de los movimientos del principe, eso si es de lo mejor del juego,
 
  
  En resumidas cuentas es de lo mejor de ese ao, lastima que no haya podido ser juego del ao, para 
 mi era un candidato serio.
  oamorap 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MalcolmM
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 16, 2005 8:33 pm PT
Review:  I loved the previous (non 3D) Prince of Persia games, all the way back to the Apple 2 original. 
 I was looking forward to playing this, but have found it to be a very frustrating experience.
 
  On the positive side, the graphics are nice. Everything else, particularily the control scheme 
 and save point scheme are so frustrating that I ended up hating the game.
  You can end up playing for very long periods of time between save points, including large non interactive 
 video segments. I really, really don't want to see these videos more than once. How this game got 
 such positive reviews and sold so well is amazing to me. For a much better gaming experience I 
 recommend Beyond Good & Evil. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ariel_king
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 14, 2005 8:46 am PT
Review:  I played this game and this game is not good but not bad aswell!!!!!
  
  Gameplay: The game's gameplay is much better than last old title. You can run on walls, you can 
 jump from wall to another wall and this time you have a combo system.
  
  Graphics: The graphics in this game are so sweet. The prince is perfect and the enemies look fantastic.
 
  
  Sound: There isn't really sound in this game but the sword sound is awsome.
  
  Value: You can play for like 20 hours and then finish it. I just wish that there is going to be 
 a 2 player mode in the future's prince of persia titles and I wish for online man. How cool will 
 that be.
  
  Reviewer's tilt: Overall it isn't a bad game to play but next time bring the online feature to 
 the prince of persia titles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stedmon8
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 31, 2005 9:40 am PT
Review:  Wow this game is nice. The story of the game was really nice and i love the way they put it together. 
 The whole eygtain look is cool too. The game has a excellent puzzle feel to it without being boring. 
 The jump and flips he do is all the more better that makes the game a blast to play. And the rewind 
 of the story and got him narrating it is also creative. This game will have a long series because 
 its very original something new and have a very fun feel to it. THe battle in the game is the only 
 let down.. its not really too many different moves and the you'll be fighting the same monster over 
 and over again. The girls that go with you threw the story is also fun too. To add a pretty chick 
 along your journey is a very nice way to spice up the game. Overall the game is a blast and gotta 
 be 1 of the best action adventure game out there. This game is rich and fun so go and get it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Myako
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 26, 2005 5:43 am PT
Review:  I really love the atmosphere in the indoor and outdoor environment of PoPSoT, the graphic is a 
 plus point on this game and also the gameplay. 
  The conversation between Farah and the Prince it`s sometimes amusing and you may play hours of 
 hours. 
  The battles makes fun because the prince has this matrix , acrobatic style and farah defends him 
 with arrow and bow and the deathtraps is also tricky.
  This is a must have of an adventure and action gamer ;D and now it`s not too expensive. The POP 
 team done an excellent series of Prince of Persia and I am also excited of POP The two thrones. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luekwa
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 20, 2005 1:31 pm PT
Review:  The entire prince of persia series is awesome and this one is just as great. While lacking the 
 awesome blood and gore from warrior within and two thrones it still has the prince of persia feel 
 to it. It continually suprises you at all the awesome combos and has a thrilling story line. While 
 the camera can get a little screwed up the control setup is beautiful. No time to learn at all. 
 If you're not allowed to play M rated games (a great and dire shame) this still offers some of 
 the violence you crave and a kick ass game to go with it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: roleplayer2004
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 21, 2005 9:52 pm PT
Review:  Prince of Persia: The Sands of Time would have to be one of the most underatted games out there. 
 There isn't much of a place these days for adventure/ puzzle games and that is definetely what 
 your getting in Sands of Time. But surprisingly, Prince of Persia Sands of Times manages to throw 
 in combat , unseen abilities like running along walls and doing all kinds of freaky athletic jumps 
 and the ability to turn back time into a realistic game. The main question that a lot of first 
 timers would be asking isis this guy a monkey?". Because seriously some of the jumps, stunts 
 and moves you manage to pull off seem like footage off a George of the jungle movie. It's actually 
 quite hillarious and you'll be having a few good laughs along the game.
  
  Obviously the biggest downfall of the game is its value. Once you've completed a puzzle or beaten 
 up a bunch of dead arab zombies, you won't really have a desire to come back and it again. It's 
 extriemely fun the first time you go through a new level and you see and explore all the massive 
 andgorgeous surroundings. This is due to the polished graphics system. But once you've seen a certain 
 area and you've just gotten past a certain section, it feels you've been there, done that. The 
 combat over time does seem to get a bit hectic. Usually because in combat your running away from 
 all your enemies back and forth to drink from a water fountain or lake, so that you can recover 
 your health from all the damage your copping. So you don't die from your fifteen minute battle. 
 
  
  At first the combat system seems amazing with all the moves you pull off like running on a wall 
 and jumping off doing a back flip and slicing up your foes. But once you've gotten used to the 
 system and you know how it works. Combat then starts to slow down and then go into a never ending 
 trend.
  
  You can't speak enough of the graphics. They look so beautiful and it captures the essence of the 
 game. Ubisoft have managed to pull off one the best looking games of 2003. You can even see the 
 princes hair move and flicker around bouncing off his face just by slowly twisting his body, which 
 is a very impressive feature in the game. The whole game looks so smooth you feel like you can 
 touch it.
  
  The end result is a wonderful game that will keep you fascinated for hours. I highly recommend 
 this game for anyone who likes a sense of adventure and exploring, and they don't mind experimenting 
 and trying different tactics. Prince of Persia: The Sands of Time is definetetly the best adventure/puzzle 
 solving game to come out for a long time. Great job Ubisoft. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: c674980
Rating: 2
Date: Feb 15, 2005 11:08 am PT
Review:  The controls really let this game down. In the middle of a battle, different buttons do different 
 things when you're facing different directions, You find yourself trying to retreat from being 
 surrounded andf hitting the wrong button and getting irretrievably surrounded and killed.
  I've been playing 3D games since Castle Wolfenstein came out. Any game where I try a couple of 
 hundred times to get through a sequence and still fail is just too damn hard. Some of these developers 
 think everyone is supergamer. 
  If I have to read a strategy guide to play a game, the developer hasn't done their job properly. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raydog11
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 12, 2005 8:36 pm PT
Review:  I just completed this game and came away impressed. You'll find the game easier to control if you 
 have one of the Thrustmaster pads. I had to knock the game down a bit for this. It should support 
 other models but only supports three TM models. Fortunately, I got one of the older TM pads from 
 Amazon. com for about $15. 
  
  The controls for this game are near perfection. It reminds me a lot of Metroid Prime because the 
 developers understood the need for forgiving, simplistic controls. Fighting your character's movement 
 sucks the life out of any game. When you die in POP, it is because of something YOU did, not the 
 game. The only mark against it would be a couple of occasions where you have to quickly leap from 
 wall to wall to move up or down, Most of the time you can do it in your sleep. But, twice in the 
 game, the rhythm changed up for some unknown reason causing me to die a lot in those areas. Also, 
 the camera sometimes likes to fight with you for control. This is very rare, but still annoying 
 when you're unsure and are forced to take a leap of faith.
  
  Combat is easy to learn AND easy to master. Before you know it, you'll take down enemies like a 
 pro. Still, it never got boring to me. I always looked forward to kicking some butt after a long 
 puzzle sequence. And just wait until you get the powered-up sword near the end!
  
  The graphics are simply gorgeous. I'm running it on a Radeon 9800 Pro, 1 GB of RAM, and a P4 processor. 
 Frame rate is completely smooth. Your jaw will drop when you've been working to get to the top 
 of some tower and look down at the scenery below!
  
  The story is quite interesting. It has a few twists that I think you'll like. The voice acting 
 is just superb! 'Nuff said!
  
  The big downer: The game is very short. Just as you start to get addicted to it, you'll be fighting 
 the last enemy. But that's what sequels are for, right? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SadExchange
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 28, 2004 3:49 am PT
Review:  Arriving on shelves on the 30th of November in 2003, just a few weeks after its console counterparts, 
 Prince of Persia: Sands of Time grabbed players by the collar and held onto them for a good ten 
 or so hours of gameplay giving them a full adventure, with great graphics, and a decent enough 
 storyline. Coming from the same developer who made Splinter Cell, Ubisoft released Sands of Time 
 to not only hardcore Adventure gamers, but because of the ease of playing style and the overall 
 fun game, they also released it to the general gamer easily giving them a handhold for the Adventure 
 Game of the Year Award for 2003. Stemming from, but not following the two games previously released 
 under the Prince of Persia name, Sands of Time sends the player through puzzles, enemies, and the 
 occasional banter between the prince and well, himself.
  
  In Sands of Time, youve unlocked the Sands of Time in the opening movie and youll spend the rest 
 of the game righting the wrong that you alone committed. But you wont have to do that alone, youll 
 enlist the help of a captured foes daughter named Farah, plus the helpfulness of a couple of differently 
 powered swords and the Dagger of Time which will little by little, regain the sands of time that 
 were lost in the beginning. The story itself was written nicely and keeps the player engrossed 
 in it for much of the game relying on conversations between the prince and Farah about different 
 situations within the game including the love story built around the Arabian and Persian. The Sands 
 of Time has many, many puzzles that must be solved to advance further in the game, but still with 
 many puzzles, they can only be solved one way and because of that, the gameplay is pretty linear. 
 Which leaves the replay value mostly for people who want to play with a higher rate of difficulty. 
 But the first time you play through this game, youll feel a sense of accomplishment for the puzzles 
 that youll solve throughout the many large, sometimes enormous rooms youre put into where you 
 have to travel from the ground floor up six or seven flights without a stair in sight. 
  
  As the prince, you have the ability to run along the wall, run up the side of a wall, swing from 
 pole staff to pole staff, jump from stone column to column, and many other acrobatic abilities 
 just to progress through the game in the way of puzzles. Youll find that you have to use the whole 
 environment to proceed through each checkpoint. And those moves are just while solving puzzles; 
 the moves youll be able to do while in combat will definitely separate this game from any other. 
 Never have I seen more fluidity with combat in a game as I did in Sands of Time. Ubisoft was simply 
 amazing in designing the slashes and jumps that the prince could do throughout a sword fight with 
 either one or multiple enemies. Between being able to spear off a wall to push an enemy down or 
 jumping from a wall over the top of an enemy to slash it across its back, you as a player will 
 be able to build up multiple combinations throughout the games fighting sequences. And there are 
 many, many fighting sequences throughout the game, but they never seem overdone or tiresome because 
 of the different techniques you can use while in battling one monster or another. While facing 
 one mummified attacker, youre able to back flip to the one behind you and then proceed to jump 
 over the top of him, literally walking up his front side to his back to take him out from behind. 
 Youll look forward to the battles between you and 20 enemies because of the fun that can be had 
 during the drawn out skirmishes. And one thing that helps the combat in the game is the responsiveness 
 in the controls. Even with a keyboard and mouse, the combat can be flawless with the different 
 combinations of buttons to push.
  
  The graphics in the game are separated into two categories. In one end, there are the character 
 models which were good at best. Each character and monster looked different in the game, but alone 
 there was nothing too spectacular and defining about them. One does have to note that the character 
 model looked realistic during the combat scenes which is a feat in itself because of the motions 
 that the prince went through during the intense battles. Thats not to say that the character models 
 were ugly, just for 2003, the character models were a little lacking, but dont just overlook the 
 graphics entirely because youd be overlooking the environments within the game located around 
 and inside the Arabian temples. The rich detail that was applied to the locales and rooms within 
 and outside the temple walls were done exceptionally well throughout the entire game. Whether it 
 was during the daytime, the nighttime or whether the prince was outside, or outside, the game world 
 looked great. When balancing upon a stone pathway hundreds of feet above the long bridges between 
 temples, youll definitely take a moment to notice your surroundings and the time that was taken 
 to present them fully. Sound within the game was also done well by the developers. The music definitely 
 fits the mood whether youre waking around outside the temple listening to the hollowing winds 
 or whether youre battling the mummified remains of your own palace guards. The pace of the music 
 settles in with the atmosphere of your surroundings being that it dies down when youre towering 
 over the height of the temple tower looking down upon all youve accomplished so far, but speeds 
 up over time in different situations always pushing the player further never making them feel left 
 out because of the selection of music.
  
  Once you finish certain areas, youre allowed to save your progress of the game, which is nice 
 because you get to see what percentage of the game you have completed. While this is nice, it definitely 
 shows the linearity of the game. But also, before youre able to save, the prince is given a vision 
 of what takes place next; hints on how to complete the next puzzle, and other such helpful notes 
 on enemies youll face coming up in the game. While this can be a nice feature in the game, it 
 can also be something that hardcore adventure gamers will scoff at because of the ease that it 
 brings to the puzzles. Thats not to say that puzzles are simple in any retrospect, while some 
 may be easier than others, certain puzzles will stand out with giving the player a sense of accomplishment 
 after completing them. 
  
  The A. I. within the game is something that could have been improved slightly. Enemies will attack 
 the same way each time, only slightly changing their swings as they try to tear the prince apart 
 with their own swords. While their fighting styles may be constant, the level of the combat depends 
 on you the player because of the different techniques you can display through different button 
 combinations. Whether you have fun in the game truly depends on how you want to play. Do you want 
 to do the same fighting combinations over and over or do you want to try and make new combinations 
 up. Its all your choice.
  
  Overall, Prince of Persia: Sands of Time is a definite play for all Adventure gamer players and 
 also something that the regular gamer should pick up because of the fun that can be had during 
 the ten or so hours while playing through the game for the first time. See if you find all the 
 power-ups your first time through and maybe try going through it again at a different level of 
 difficulty for the fun of the battle scenes if nothing else. Sands of Time should is a game that 
 anyone can get into, and a game that most players will get hooked on.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jwells
Rating: 7.6
Date: Dec 23, 2004 3:10 pm PT
Review:  This game is a short, fun ride. As the resident rater of stories in games (it is what I care most 
 about) I would give this game's story a solid 8 out of 10. I go in a lot for character development 
 and love stories. This game is strong in the latter, a bit weak in the former. I especially liked 
 the ending - fairy-tale, yes - completely in keeping with the style of the game, yes. Lovely circle.
 
  
  With a game that is so heavy on the camp story, if it had been any longer than it was, it might 
 have become stupid. The directors of this game did a good job when they made the game short, because 
 if it had been any longer the story would have become a bit too sweet - like eating too much chocolate 
 ice cream at one sitting. As it is, they did a nice job and kept our interest in the prince and 
 his lovely companion. They even did a sort of lame try at character development, when they had 
 the prince decide pompously that he would condescend to marry the princess. While it was a good 
 effort, the love story was better than the character development.
  
  The rest of the game - fighting, puzzles and all that were ok by me. I am not a big combat fan, 
 so I didn't care that the combat was somewhat easy and repetitive. The puzzles were very nicely 
 integrated and organic feeling. I did have some issues with camera angles - in a game where position 
 and placement of  is so important in planning what to do next 
 I found it at times difficult to see what I was supposed to do because the camera angle was all 
 wrong. And then I couldn't figure out how to change it. Even when I went to first person view I 
 often found the next ledge thing I needed to jump to was simply not able to be seen.
  
  In all, I usually rate a game based on its story, and this game has a nice enough story and characters 
 to keep me going for a short time. And luckily enough, this is a short game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gta_maniac01
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 17, 2004 11:13 am PT
Review:  This game has very good graphics and a good story. The levels are well built. I like almost all 
 the features in this game though i think that there are too many combats. The puzzles are amazing. 
 About the story i think is a story that has a lot to tell; the story of an evil vizir trying to 
 corrupt the prince and destroying everyone. The back-time feature is a bit cheating but it is ok. 
 I think everyone should have this game because it is simply amazing though the time playing is 
 a bit low you will be entertained for a long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: randar23rhenn
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 30, 2004 1:06 am PT
Review:  Prince of Persia: The Sands of Time has it all. It has some of the best graphics to be seen, great 
 sound, fun gameplay, a good story, and wonderful mission design.
  
  Gameplay: Prince of Persia is not lacking in any area. The gameplay is extraordinary. Running walls, 
 jumping up sheer surfaces, battling foes, using time to your advantage, this game is truly some 
 of the most fun I've had in a while. 
  
  There is also a WELL executed storyline (perhaps a first for the action genre?) Although it is 
 very confusing at points, and at others seemingly cliche, the end of it draws it all together and 
 leaves you with that same feeling you get after you have finished a wonderful book.
  
  Graphics: Graphically, there is no denying this game has some of the best graphics of this gaming 
 generation. 
  
  Sound: The music is always suitable, and the sound effects great, not the best ever heard, but 
 superb nonetheless.
  
  Value: Its worth it no matter what.
  
  Tilt: I absolutely loved this game, and I am not a fan of the genre, I bought it on a whim. It 
 turned out to be an excellent game that I recommend very highly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ozistyle
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 27, 2004 1:26 pm PT
Review:  This game is a true MASTERPIECE. Nothing more nothing less. It has the best scenario that i have 
 ever seen in a game. The heroe has some of the best moves and combos that i have ever seen a game. 
 For me its the best game ever. The only score that i can give it its 10/10. 
  I have been so addict to that game that i have beat it for more than 10 times!! Its the only game 
 that i have never got bored with. 
  I don't think that i will ever see a game like this. 
  As you have already understood i recomend this game. Its a must-play game. For me if you haven't 
 played this game then you haven't played anything. Anything else is just a toy in front of this.
 
  
  I am sure you will love it too :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TazmanianD
Rating: 8.6
Date: Sep 26, 2004 9:50 pm PT
Review:  Prince of Persia is divided into two main types of gameplay. There's the combat sequences where 
 you fight a battle with a bunch of monsters and there are the "adventure" sequences where you have 
 to find your way out of a room or to the next level.
  
  The adventure element of the game doesn't quite meet the standards one would expect to find in 
 a pure adventure game. There are a few puzzles to solve in the game, but there's nothing terribly 
 difficult or anything that requires much thought. This part of the game takes advantage of the 
 awesome character animation done to enable the character to perform incredible feets of acrobatics. 
 You can climb and jump from columns, do flips and jumps off of bars and ropes, hang along the edge 
 of a cliff and run sideways along a wall. Quite often, you find yourself standing in a room and 
 you need to find the right combination of all the acrobatics to figure out how to progress. You 
 need to notice that you can climb a certain column, jump across to a ledge, climb up to another 
 ledge, jump back and forth between two walls, etc. Some people might not find what basically amounts 
 to jumping puzzles, appealing, but I for one did.
  
  In these acrobatic moves, the game is pretty careful about maintaining control of your character. 
 For example, you usually need to simply point your character in the right direction and jump. If 
 you are close to a valid jump point, the character will make the right moves. You also don't have 
 to worry about walking off the edge of a wall or anything like that as your character will automatically 
 grab on to the edge as he falls. So, there's no worries about having to be precise and generally, 
 you do all of this without distraction from killing bad guys.
  
  I found these acrobatics to be quite entertaining and a pleasure to perform. I found myself thinking 
 about Splinter Cell which I enjoyed for its remarkable ability at having your character move realistically 
 and in unusual ways.
  
  Aside from the adventuring part of the game, there are battle sequences you engage in when you 
 encounter bad guys. Combat is fairly straightforward. Click to attack, right click to block. There 
 are a few special moves involving jumping and there's the use of your dagger as a secondary weapon.
 
  
  The dagger adds a interesting element to the game not normally found in FPS games. Your dagger 
 holds an amount of sand that you can use for various actions. You can rewind the game up to 10 
 seconds. You can freeze your enemies or you can just slow down time. You fill up your dagger by 
 attacking enemies who are unconscious with your dagger. In Prince of Persia, you cannot simply 
 save and load the game whenever you want. The game has a decent number of discreet save points. 
 So, you cannot save in the middle of a battle or in the middle of a tough "get through the traps" 
 sequence. However, that's what the rewind allows you to do. You can undo your mistakes (at least 
 a certain number of them) .
  
  That said, there are definitely some complaints to be said about the game. The gameplay doesn't 
 really progress much throughout the game. The end of the game plays pretty much like the beginning 
 of the game. You get a little stronger, can carry more sand and have an extra power or two, but 
 other than that, the combat and puzzles don't vary a whole lot. There also is not a great deal 
 of variety in the enemies to fight. The fact that the game is relatively short mitigates this however. 
 If the game went on much longer, it might have started to get old, but this was okay.
  
  It's also been repeated quite a bit, but the camera also takes a bit getting used to. It works 
 kind of like a third-person camera, but you don't have total control over it. You can move the 
 camera around as you desire, but if you try to move it into a position the game doesn't want (like 
 into a wall) , then game bumps it back. The game also automatically changes the camera position 
 as you progress through the game which changes the meaning of the movement directions. It adds 
 a bit a dramatic flare to the game as the camera switches to the appropriate angles for what you 
 are doing, but if the camera doesn't do exactly what you want, it can be annoying. I'm not sure 
 I would want to try and manually move the camera as I'm running along a wall.
  
  The graphics are great and the sound effects are also great. It really does a good job at making 
 you feel like you're in these vast temples and caverns. Be warned if you're afraid of heights though. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kanderstag
Rating: 5.6
Date: Sep 24, 2004 9:35 pm PT
Review:  I've only played this game for about an hour and I doubt I'll get around to playing it much more. 
 The controls are simply too frustrating to use. As has already been mentioned, the camera angle 
 shifts every five seconds or so and totally disorients your W A S D controls. What was left is 
 now back thanks to this automatic camera shift. Sometimes you're forced to view from an oblique 
 angle which further complicates the left, right, forward controls. This is the primary fault I 
 see with this game. 
  The challenges look fun and puzzling, a lot about this game seems fun. The graphics are good. But 
 I don't have the patience to take much more of this frustrating gameplay and so won't get around 
 to finishing this. Better to just erase it from the hard drive. All because of the controls... 
 as someone else said, this must be a console game. They really didn't work much on making it PC 
 friendly. Which brings me to the Gamespot review for this game. They simply glossed over this glaring 
 fact. Gameplay is very affected by this control setup and constantly shifting camera angles. Perhaps 
 others find this acceptable, I do not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: martlume
Rating: 9.1
Date: Sep 20, 2004 12:55 pm PT
Review:  The attempts to resurrect Jordan Mechner's legendary Prince of Persia (1989) to its former glory 
 have failed so far (Prince of Persia 2, Prince of Persia 3D) up until this attempt. One can only 
 wonder how action game developers have never thought about this before as POP: Sands of Time actually 
 has two amazing features which will make you want to play this game: you can run on walls for a 
 limited time, and you can rewind time. The game skillfully uses cinematics, zooming in at appropriate 
 moments to show off a character or an important detail, and it also zooms out or pans through a 
 room to give you an idea of the level's lay-out and where you need to get. Every room or area is 
 a little puzzle of its own and the new feature of running-walls has been implemented well into 
 general scheme of puzzles which vary pleasantly. The only major complaint to Prince of Persia are 
 the camera angles, which mostly change at appropriate moments but take a little getting used to, 
 for a button that moves prince sideways might suddenly start moving him forward instead as the 
 angle of view changes. Aside that, the controls for PC version are excellent, and mouse is well 
 made use of. The second most wined about routine in Sands of Time is fighting, because it is true 
 to the series heritage rather simplistic and features only 3 buttons: block, attack and the lethal 
 dagger attack that is used to put out the fallen enemies. The dagger has 4 charges and prince recharges 
 it by killing enemies. It also gives prince his special ability to rewind time, which is fun to 
 use and comfortably allows for some human error. The whole story is told backwards and is beautifully 
 presented. Prince is the action game of the year, if you ask me.
  
  
  19/20 - Based on : 30 HOURS
  4/4 PRODUCTION VALUES - Fantastic!
  4/4 ACCESSIBILITY - Easy to 
 learn.
  3/4 PACING - Puzzles vary excellently. Fighting gets to be a bore after a while (too many people 
 to be killed in a row) .
  4/4 INNOVATION - Running on walls, rewinding time, skillfully using cinematics. 
  4/4 IMMERSION 
 - It's essentially a puzzle game, so it won't make you feel like a real prince in Persia or anything. 
 Yet the sheer admiration for room designs sticks with you for a long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dr0wnage_PhD
Rating: 9.9
Date: Sep 18, 2004 2:05 pm PT
Review:  Prince of Persia: The Sands of Time is an artistic masterpiece in the video game world. Not only 
 does it look great but playing in the PoP world is totally immersive and a one of a kind experience.
 
  
  Graphics: Artistically it is one of the most impressive games ever made. The detail of the palaces 
 and the setting of the old time Persian landscape conveys a sense of you actually being there. 
 The player models are top notch and the player animation is very smooth and fluid. The tiny little 
 details, graphical effects and little touches is what makes the graphics really stand out.
  
  Sound: The sounds from the weapons breaking wooden objects or clanging against other swords 
 sounds realistic, The voice over for the main characters is very well done and professional. The 
 ambient soundtrack fits perfectly for the mood of the game and will change its tempo for more intense 
 moments which will get your heart pounding fast as you are jumping to a ledge 4 storys above ground.
 
  
  Gameplay: Now you may want to use a gamepad to avoid some frustrating mistakes that can happen 
 when using the mouse and keyboard. While the mouse and keyboard do work fine, there will be some 
 camera switches sometimes that can cause an accidental death or mishap. A gamepad does work better 
 for PoP. The combat is very smooth and works quite well there are varying moves you can pull off 
 that sort of tie together like combos. Some of the combat is repetitive but it still is very fun 
 and satisfying killing your enemies. Where the gameplay truely shines is the acrobatic and death 
 defying moves you will have to make througout the game. Insane jumps from ledge to ledge, jumping 
 from banisters to rope swinging. If you are afraid of heights this game may seriously not be for 
 you! Luckily PoP has a new feature, you can control time in different manners. Throughout the game 
 you will be able to rewind time, pause time and other ways of controlling time for various uses 
 necessary throughout the game. So if you are falling from that 200 foot cliff, don't worry you 
 can rewind time and try it again. Keep note though that it is not unlimited you only have a certain 
 amount of "sand" to use to control time, which can be replenished by killing enemies.
  
  The contolling of time coupled with crazy acrobatic puzzles and immersive story telling is what 
 makes PoP such an incredible and very fun game. The graphics are just plain beautiful, it looks 
 like they really took their time with this game and got everything right, This is one of those 
 games that while you are playing you stop and look around and say to yourself "Wow". PoP: SoT is 
 recommended for any gamer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: timoteo
Rating: 4.9
Date: Sep 10, 2004 10:05 am PT
Review:  I really wanted to love this game ... and I would have if it weren't for the incredibly horrible 
 camera and control scheme. Others have already discussed this ad nauseam, but it is my main reason 
 for wanting to burn this game after a few hours of play. I don't think I've screamed at a game 
 as much as I have with this one. I was just glad I checked out user reviews after reading the Gamespot 
 review or I would have thought I was doing something wrong. The Gamespot reviewer inexplicably 
 totally ignored this major deficiency. What game was he playing?!? Maybe he mostly played a console 
 version and just briefly checked out the graphics/sound on the PC version and figured it was great. 
 
  
  Anyway ... in some ways it is a lot of fun, but the camera and controls simply kill the brief moments 
 of joy. I think I'll sell it on eBay and try out the XBOX version. I know there is a great game 
 in there somewhere. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flurry887884
Rating: 2.6
Date: Aug 27, 2004 12:55 am PT
Review:  I only got a demo for this game because it looked pretty cool on XBOX. Well I got the demo for 
 it, and it was probobaly the lousiest game I've ever played on PC. How do people think this can 
 be good on PC? The controls are sloppy and the worst I've ever seen, and that effected the game 
 the most. The graphics were OK, but the sound....... don't get me started on how terrible the sound 
 is. Although the voice acting is fine, have you heard this piece of rubbish? Anyhow, I trust this 
 game is good on consoles, but who would have thought this would be good on PC? C'mon Ubi Soft! 
 You guys are better than this! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EvilTypeGuy
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 14, 2004 1:58 pm PT
Review:  I want to simply echo most of what GameSpot said in their review. My opinion differs in several 
 areas:
  
  1) I think the graphics and sound are better than they give the game credit for
  
  2) I think 
 they underestimate how frustrating the PC version can be to play sometimes in comparison to the 
 console version, especially when fighting, or when the camera constantly changes view as the player 
 is going through a timing-critical "jumping puzzle"
  
  3) I value the game a bit more, because while it was mildly disappointing that they didn't include 
 the original Prince of Persia games it wasn't that big of a deal
  
  The three most frustraing parts of the game for me were:
  
  1) a fight fairly early on where 
 you have to battle a sand king (which was very difficult in comparison to most of the battles after 
 that)
  
  2) a fight towards the end of the game where you have to defend fara in an elevator rising to the 
 top (almost impossible to keep her pany ass from dying)
  
  3) and several puzzles at the end where you do not have the dagger temporarily (mostly complicated 
 by the fact that the direction the character jumps depends completely on the camera position)
 
  
  Regardless of the negatives, I have not been so engrossed by a PC game in a long time. This time 
 sucker stole every spare hour I had over the past week. I cannot reiterate enough how much I enjoyed 
 the graphical and audio aspects of this game. There were very few puzzles that left me wondering 
 what I should do. All in all, this game was a great one, sadly with little replay value however.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ernelson1976
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 20, 2004 4:32 pm PT
Review:  POP Sands of Time is probably the best title I've played this year. The original POP was one of 
 the first games I ever played on a PC, and so I was excited to see what they did with this after 
 the dismal failure that was Prince of Persia 3D.
  
  The control scheme took a little bit to get used to, but it is simply amazing what you can do with 
 it. Moves that are cinematically beautiful on the screen are very simple to execute with the mouse 
 and keyboard. The graphics are often quite beautiful, and the cut scenes are absolutely stunning, 
 with magnificent and creative art direction. Quite stylized and mysterious - perfect.
  
  The sound was excellent, particularly the voice acting (which can often make or break a game, no 
 matter how beautiful it is) .
  
  The game is also quite long. Longer than most games of this type, and some levels are difficult 
 enough to keep you exploring for awhile (which never seemed a drawback while I played it) .
  
  There is not a great diversity of enemies to defeat, but that is only part of the game. The 
 puzzles are where some of the best action is, and they are both challenging and fun. The time reversal 
 element of the game keeps you playing far longer than if you had to save and repeat over and over 
 again. It was a magnificent feature that fit in well with the story.
  
  Excellent game, and Kudos to Jordan Mechner and his team for creating the best remake of a classic 
 game I've ever seen. It continues the spirit of the classic without being overwhelmed by the complexity 
 of the graphics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctor_kaz
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jun 15, 2004 4:56 am PT
Review:  Prince of Persia must have been a fantastic game on a Gamecube, PS2, or X-Box. On the PC, it shows 
 signs of greatness, but the awful controls and camera movements make it too frustrating to play 
 for an extended period of time. 
  
  Maybe console gamers are used to this, or maybe it just worked better on consoles, but as a PC 
 player, I want simple functions, like being able to look up and down with the mouse. In PoP, you 
 can't even freelook with the mouse unless you press a special key to enter first person mode. This 
 is annoying, since most areas involve climbing up high somewhere, so looking up is crucial. The 
 mouse and keyboard provides so many efficient camera control methods that there is no excuse for 
 not getting this right. The camera angle in Prince of Persia shifts every five seconds or so. Seriously. 
 I never got used to it while playing the whole game. This caused me to die numerous times while 
 fighting or trying to make a precise jump, as the "left" key would suddenly become "up". Perhaps 
 console gamers are more used to this, but it drove me beserk.
  
  Then there's the controls. This game was just not made for a mouse and keyboard. I hated the battles 
 in this game because of the controls. Between the controls and the camera angles, I found that 
 combat basically becomes a crude mouse-clicking affair, where you occasionally hit the "E" key 
 to finish off prone enemies or freeze them. I could never quite get the Prince to do what I wanted 
 him to do. There's an enemy to my right. Press "D" to move right and Left Click to attack. So the 
 Prince wheels around and attacks a guy behind him instead. These types of moments will repeatedly 
 pop up during combat and force you to get killed. Until you discover the overpowered Wall Spring 
 move, which kills everyone in one hit. Even if you have done that, sometimes the Princess that 
 you are escorting around gets stuck annoyingly in a group of enemies and gets killed. This game 
 should really be played with an analog stick. I tried to map my dual-analog gamepad to the game, 
 but I couldn't get the Prince to run with it. 
  
  What a shame, because I wanted to love this otherwise outstanding game. In this game you get to 
 play the ultimate acrobatic hero. The Prince has a lot of cool moves, and they never get old to 
 pull off or watch. His animations are so smooth, that they are incredible to watch. Every room 
 is filled with traps, levers, or deep chasms and ultimately presents a puzzle to be solved. There 
 is a very satisfying challenge in figuring out how to use all of the Prince's special abilities 
 to navigate across each area. Solving the puzzles in the game is immensely satisfying.
  
  The game's graphics are beautiful, not just because they are technically sound, but because the 
 game has such fantastic style. There is so much variety in the areas, and the characters are painted 
 with lots of detail.
  
  The story doesn't sound like much on paper, but like many games, it's the way that you are immersed 
 in the story that makes it great. The chivalrous, brave young man gets the beautiful girl and saves 
 the day. It's not entirely original, but it's just so well done here. The Prince and The Princess 
 exchange a lot of dialog, and that is what makes the romance part of the story so enjoyable. It's 
 hard to not like both characters.
  
  But playing this game was like having a great dream -- and then getting woken up by the alarm clock. 
 The control and camera issues get in the way of so many potentially great moments. Potentially 
 easy challenges take two or three frustrating tries. If you own a console, I would recommend that 
 you play this game there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lanky333
Rating: 9.9
Date: May 5, 2004 10:03 am PT
Review:  This game is amazing. It captivates you right from the beginning. You can run across walls, swing 
 on ropes, rewind time, vault between walls. There is nothing you cant do. What makes this game 
 a nice new chnage is the fact there are no guns or anything of that sort. It is just you, your 
 sword, and your dagger. Each level has its own unique puzzle. but thats what makes the game so 
 great. The camera angles every once and a while can get a little annoying, but its not enough to 
 not buy this game. This is a must have for anyone. Its just that good!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: atahu
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 23, 2004 4:15 am PT
Review:  Prince of Persia: Sands of Time is so captivating just like a good novel or movie. The game-play 
 is brilliant. Jumping, swinging, back-flips, rolls - you name it. This game has it all. Its a 
 big relief from shooter games as there are no guns, only swords. The Prince has a lot of cool moves 
 (jumping over an enemy and striking him with your sword on the way down) for players to master 
 and it really adds a lot to the games action.
  
  Everything about this game is so perfect - the closer you get to the end the more it draws you 
 in and what helps with this are the graphics and sound. They are absolutely stunning, making it 
 feel like YOU are right in the game. 
  
  A lot of people complain about the camera angles being so annoying but I would have to disagree. 
 Rarely the camera would get in my way but if it did you could just swivel it around to whatever 
 angle you liked  simple as that.
  
  Prince of Persia: Sands of Time is what you would expect from a good game. Its action and deep 
 storyline captures you from the very start and ushering you on till the very end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: qball145
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 12, 2004 9:05 pm PT
Review:  What I didn't like: 
  The camera isn't controllable in the same way as other 3rd person adventure games like Tomb Raider, 
 American McGee's Alice, etc. The game will let you control the camera in some situations. Some 
 situations fix the camera in a particular location, other situations flip the camera around arbitrarily. 
 The lack of camera control generally doesn't detract from general navigation and jumping puzzles; 
 when you don't have control of the camera, it snaps to an ideal view. 
  
  However, the camera flipping around all over the place during combat gets frustrating at times. 
 The camera sometimes flips behind a pillar or banner so you can't see anything when fighting. And 
 combat has other problems besides the camera. When multiple enemies, it's very difficult to select 
 which enemy you want to attack. And when you get knocked down and are faced with a horde of enemies, 
 you really don't have any choice but to die and retry. Enemies teleport around and clump together 
 too much. However, the vaulting and rebounding off-wall combat moves were kinda fun to execute. 
 
  
  Another thing that threw me was game doesn't play all that great with the traditional PC keyboard, 
 mouse combo. I finally ended up ditching the keyboard, mouse combo I'm so used to and plugged in 
 a gamepad with which I found the game much more enjoyable. Goes to show that POP was really designed 
 for consoled and is pretty much a straight PC port. 
  
  
  What I liked: 
  The graphics are awesome, and the level design is elaborate and inspired; the whole thing really 
 does make you feel like you're in a medieval middle-eastern fairy tale. I have not seen such artistically 
 well done game since American McGee's Alice. Character animation and attention to detail is generally 
 excellent. The story is pretty engaging as well. 
  
  I found the jumping, swinging, and trap puzzles very entertaining. Leaping, swinging the prince 
 through traps and jumps has much the same satisfaction as it did with first two side scrolling 
 Prince of Persia games. Nothing is lost in the translation to 3D. Rather, it's all more sophisticated 
 and fun to play 
  
  Sound is pretty good, except for a problem with spoken dialog being too soft in some situations. 
 
  
  Overall, POP: Sands of Time was generally a very satisfying gameplay experience. It isn't a very 
 long game, but I thoroughly enjoyed most of it once I had gotten used the camera. I just wish the 
 combat had been more polished. 
  
  If you played and enjoyed the old side scroller Prince of Persia games, you'll definitely want 
 to get this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dryden555
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 16, 2004 8:16 pm PT
Review:  Basically a very souped-up version of the first Tomb Raider, which was a great game for its time. 
 
  
  POP gets an everage rating from me because the constantly shifting camera gets annoying -- especially 
 when the direction keys switch orientation every time the camera changes. The first Tomb Raider 
 wasn't perfect but you could always move the camera manually. In POP, you can try to move the camera, 
 but the game will force you back to the view it wants you to have. 
  
  I can see why some people like this game and visually it look fantastic, but I'm pretty sure I'm 
 not the only one who wonders if endless jumping puzzles are all that fun for an entire game. 
 
  
  The combat remains the same from beginning to end so the combat doesn't really offer a 2nd compelling 
 reason to play. I look forward to a sequel since there is obvious talent in the folks who designed 
 the game. 
  
  But I'll wait for the reviews first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mulderite2002
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 11, 2004 3:15 am PT
Review:  Not since the original Tomb Raider games have I enjoyed this kind of puzzle solving, action-adventure 
 game. The graphics are truly superb and if you have the hardware to make this game shine it will 
 reward you with some of the best eye candy youll have seen in many a month. The physics of the 
 gameplay are nicely graded between requiring some amount of skill without being overly complex 
 or cumbersome. As mentioned elsewhere my only gripe is the lack of extras that can be found in 
 the console versions, but this is small-fry. Dont put it off any longer, go and buy this game 
 and have a thoroughly enjoyable and original experience playing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: md_man_1989
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 10, 2004 7:45 pm PT
Review:  Prince of Persia: Sands of Time
  What do you get when take a classic 2d adventure game, and apply new age technology? Prince of 
 Persia is what you get. 
  Prince of Persia starts out in a middle east like setting with harmonious notes of the chirping 
 birds. Throughout the story you play as a young prince who has some of the best abilities in athletics 
 and maneuverability. Not too long in the game, the prince steals the ever almighty Dagger of Time. 
 
  The nations leader gets Prince to go and steal the Sands of Time, a large hour glass, which in 
 all disbelief, wreaks havoc. The sands that were in the hour glass escaped and engulfed everything 
 that was in Kingdom except Farah, prince, and the leader. With Prince feeling bad for what he done, 
 he joins up with the Farah and goes and tries to fix everything back to normal.
  Prince of Persia plays like a story book. When you die for some reason, , Prince will say, No, 
 wait thats not how it happened.. This is a neat feature because it will leave you wanting to 
 see more about what happens in POP.
  Beside making a more ruckus, the dagger is also the key element to be able to beat the game. This 
 important item, has to the power to kill the sand zombies and pack a few more goodies. These goodies 
 I am talking about, are that the Time Dagger can rewind time if you are killed by a zombie or dont 
 make it to a certain ledge.
  The controls masterfully put into place, so you will be able to pull off any of Princes moves 
 with ease. When you get to a new area, everything in the previous level will be shut off from intrusion. 
 Fly bys will be proven to be a nifty creation, as you can see everything that is ahead of you 
 in the level.
  Thanks to button layout, it is pretty much impossible to accidently slip and fall of the ledges 
 because each button has its own different ability. So you wont find yourself struggling for life 
 because 1 button has 2 different functions. 
  Whats nice about Prince of Persia, is that once you step into a new area, you are able to get 
 a fly by on what is happening further into the level. If you ever get stuck in the level, you can 
 go BACK to the save point and then it will show you again, what the level is like, further aiding 
 you in your quest.
  The coolest thing about POP is the kick ass moves. Pulling one after another can result in major 
 pain towards the zombies. The simplicity also adds to the fun factor as it will not take nerves 
 of steal, because it will not take for ever to get a move down. The satisfaction in killing with 
 style is all to graceful.
  Gameplay is heavy and it will have you thinking, killing, and observing. Defying gravity, running 
 up across walls, swinging ropes, balancing on ledges, and pulling mad tricks that only  special 
 Princes can do is what you will be doing most of the game. Being the acrobat Prince is, he still 
 has humanistic features.
  The little details pull Prince of Persia together like peanut butter and jelly. Small little things 
 you usually wouldnt notice, make the overall experience like you the player were living this whole 
 masquerade.
  Though Prince has his inhuman like features, he still needs help when he can get it, that is why 
 Princes only living friend, Farah is there to help. She is very vulnerable to attacks , but can 
 be helpful in the heat of a puzzle. Since Farah is skinnier then Prince she can fit in smaller 
 areas and can accomplish certain objectives that Prince cannot. The pair are inseparable and cannot 
 complete the game without Farah, almost like Sphinx and the Cursed Mummy?!?!?
  The first few hours of the game are it. You will have experienced anything and everything the game 
 has to offer. If you been in one mob fight with 20 plus monsters, youve been in them all. Although 
 the moves add a bit of flavor, the fun will soon diminish. The lack of difficulty settings will 
 also add to the flame diminishment.
  Graphics wise everything is a-ok , except with the issue of body construction. The faces tend to 
 seem in a blah-ish like state. With the few CG videos it will add to the story to make it even 
 more enjoyable. 
  Prince of Persia Sands of Time is still one of the best platformers, even with the flew and very 
 distinct flaws. You wont notice them while you are having the fun of slaughtering the beast, while 
 being able to pull off a few killing moves to finish the act. 
  From the wind to the musical score, the audio is right there in front of you. Brisk clean wind 
 blowing from one ear to the other, is very plausible and restricting from you moving any further. 
 To prove how good the audio is, they even added a level that will depend on how good your hearing 
 ability is to be able to pass the stage.
  Prince of Persia has come a long way and is a force to reckon with. We have seen and felt the horrid 
 powers Prince of Persia 3d was like, and we have been rejoiced with a new breed of entertainment.... 
 Prince of Persia: Sands of Time. 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jcomm
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 3, 2004 2:23 pm PT
Review:  Wow, what an experience! This game grabbed me and did not let go until I completed it. The graphics, 
 sound, puzzles, action, storyline were all tremendously satisfying. I also appreciated the infusion 
 of humor that took place in the context of the growing relationship between the Prince and Farah. 
 The game may have been on the short side for some, but I was pleased with the length. If they had 
 stretched it out more, I think it would have lost some of the freshness in additional levels.
 
  
  As it stands, Prince of Persia Sands of Time is close to gaming perfection. It gave me the same 
 rush as the first Tomb Raider. Lara has been dethroned by the Prince. Kudos! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FlankerDFMax
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jan 1, 2004 5:28 pm PT
Review:  The graphics are killer-amongst the best I've seen. Unlike HALO/Combat Evolved (frame rate killing 
 hardware hog) , the game code is correctly written so PoP/SoT runs smoothly with the eye candy dialed 
 up (you know the way it's supposed to be!) . The sound is very good also, though be warned -- if you 
 like playing without the music, the voice over in the pregame cut scene introduction is embedded 
 in the music. Music off=no voice over. The same holds true for significant portions of the rest 
 of the game; no music=no ambient back ground sound. The good news is the music isn't that hard 
 to like; so leave it on! Though I haven't made it far into the game yet, it's readily apparent 
 that whatever is right about this game is overwhelmed by a constantly shifting third person camera 
 view point/s (as in many of them) . I find it curious the Game Spot reviewer/s rightly slagged Return 
 of the King for this horrendous control fault; yet didn't really say diddly about it in respect 
 to PoP/SoT (in fact , they gave PoP/Sot pretty good marks for this control scheme) . Say what??? 
 Because of the ever shifting camera view, sometimes forwards is backwards, sometimes vice versa, 
 etc etc it is very difficult to control the Prince with any degree of precision. Maybe the developer 
 will give us a fix in a patch?! PLEASE! It's a shame, because this game is so good looking, and 
 has a better than average story (for a FPS) it begs for a fixed third person camera, and a control 
 scheme that doesn't feel like a poorly executed port of a console game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Evanslake2002
Rating: 4.3
Date: Dec 31, 2003 10:56 am PT
Review:  What is with this rash of games that have such clunky and frustrating controls. The graghics are 
 good, the sound is OK, but god, the lack of control over camera angle and quick movement just ruins 
 the whole experiance. Don't these developers realize that I do not wish to develop blisters in 
 an attempt to perform the finger gymnastics that they require. I had to turn the special effects 
 to medium to get a visible game (Dell ATI Radeon 9800) at 800x600x32. Once I figured that out the 
 graghics were quite nice. But until more thought is given to controls on this game and ones like 
 Broken Sword I can't recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wakin
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 25, 2003 8:08 am PT
Review:  I don't believe myself but I have managed to finish the whole game within 2 days (10-15 hours) . 
 Seldom do I find myself engrossed in playing games unless the story is fascinating and the gameply 
 mechanics is excellant. This is exactly what happens with Prince of Persia: The Sands Of Time. 
 No doubt this game is a platformer but what seperates this platformer from the rest like Rayman 
 is the combat sequence. It's absolutely brilliant and it's extremely rewarding to watch how the 
 Prince fights his enemies using the dagger and sword. His moves are swift, agile and natural. Another 
 brilliant gameply mechanics is the inclusion of time control. You can reverse time to avoid a fall 
 or wrong move which would probably result in retrying that section again for other platform games. 
 No the Prince of Persia make away with such time consuming and frustrating gameply by allowing 
 you to rewind time so that you can decide what to do again. Furthermore, the jumping and swinging 
 around with poles and columns do not require pinpoint precision. You just need to jump in the direction 
 of movement and viola you have successfully complete that move. It's elegant and simple design 
 really makes this game shines among the rest. Is the gameplay easy? Well hell no. Some of the enemies 
 are quire challenging and it's not a no brainer. Even the puzzles requires you to do a bit of thinking 
 and there's this vision to give you hints on where to proceed next so that you won't get stuck 
 at certain stages. The development value of this game really impresses me. As much as I would like 
 to give a 10 for all the attributes however the replay value leaves much to desire (especially 
 if you are playing the PC version) . So ladies and gentlement, in my opinion this is one of the 
 greatest platformer release for 2003. Don't miss it if you can. Merry Yuletide to all of you! Another 
 great year for gaming! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kastigador
Rating: 7.1
Date: Dec 14, 2003 5:39 pm PT
Review:  If you like 3rd person action, you'll enjoy this game. What I dislike is the weird camera angles 
 that ultimately lend to the same clunky controls all 3rd person action games seem to suffer from. 
 The action is REALLY repetitive. The story is okay. Graphics are very nice. Sound is good as well. 
 However, when you spend 20 minutes trying to nail a particular jump because the camera angle shifts 
 so drastically and the controls on the PC version suck this game gets old quick. Combat is nothing 
 more than a lot of button mashing and sometimes facing multiple opponent can be an excercise in 
 frustration since your character has the tendency to be irresponsive to changes in direction during 
 the button mashing. 
  
  Good game, just not that great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: navahmed
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 13, 2003 7:25 am PT
Review:  My only disappointment is that there are no bonuses in PC version as compare to its console counterparts. 
 It is really shame or a blot of for what is a perfect platform action/adventure game that recaptures 
 that magic of Prince of Persia 1 and 2.
  
  Jordan Mechner is a genius, he proved that with original Prince of Persia 1 and 2. I liked Prince 
 of Persia 3D but this game is mesmerizing. Everything oozes with style, world is beautiful, story 
 is top notch. Control scheme is not good on PC which is a shame because otiginal Prince of Persia 
 was designed on PC and playing it on PC felt that it was made for keyboard. I was forced to play 
 it using gamepad.
  
  Although it was somewhat disappointing to didn't find jaw trap but overall traps are nice and animations 
 are flawless. The way Prince moves sets new standards. Some really nice acrobatic move like running 
 on wall are welcome addition.
  
  Another aspect is story that is tightly integrated with gameplay. Reversing time using sand is 
 perfect example, although it is kind of obvious that they made a story for that feature :-) But 
 the main story, how it progresses, and relationship between Prince and Farah is really nice and 
 worth exploring. All in all new Prince of Persia, which I think can be safely called Prince of 
 Persia 2003 is really a big contender for the Game of the Year! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: einsteinyong
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 9, 2003 6:23 pm PT
Review:  Previous versions of Prince of Persia have always been a failure to re-capture the true essence 
 of the game's playability. But Sands of Time truly deserve to be the best of the series. 
  
  As I have observed, the game uses the graphic/physics engine used in Splinter Cell. Add to 
 that, the surrounding architecture, script, and voice talents used in Soul Reaver series. Graphics 
 are really cool, specially with the fog effects. Though I have heard, that these fog effects won't 
 be seen by any of the ATI cards.
  
  Excellent acrobatic moves and fighting sequences against the enemy never ceases to amaze me. Seems 
 like the Prince's skills are endless, combining martial arts, acrobats, and sword techniques. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zsciaeount
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 8, 2003 12:21 am PT
Review:  Prince of Persia: The Sands of Time is the series' second venture into the world of 3D, the last 
 being the clunky and unforgiving Prince of Persia 3D. While many took the failure of the first 
 3D installment of this classic series to mean that the core gameplay mechanic would never work 
 in 3D, the folks at Ubisoft seem to have taken a few hints from Retro Studios' Metroid Prime, and 
 managed to create a game so good, you'd swear it was born for 3D.
  
  Sands of Time tells the story of a young Prince who, in an attempt to impress his father, is tricked 
 into unleashing the sands of time, a powerful and deadly substance that transforms the entire kingdom 
 into sand monsters bent on killing everything alive. His father now dead, and the kingdom in ruins, 
 the Prince sets off on a quest to right the grievous wrongs that he has done, and to seek revenge 
 on the evil Vizier that tricked him.
  
  If you're familiar with the old games (and who over 25 isn't?) , then you understand the basic core 
 mechanic of the gameplay. Controlling the Prince, you will make him leap, grab, mantle, and dodge 
 to scale walls and avoid traps. Also, as in previous games, melee combat comes into play as well. 
 However, just as the graphics have gained a new dimension, so has the much of the gameplay. 
  
  In addition to the standard POP moves, the Prince now has a few new moves up his sleeve. Among 
 them is the ability to run along walls, as well as to run up them and perform jumping backflips. 
 This adds a great deal of variety to what you can do, and some of the combos of tricks you are 
 required to pull off in quick succession look great. Fortunately for you, the controls are actually 
 quite simple and the game is very forgiving given the fact that most of the moves have a large 
 margin for error, and given the fact that you can turn back time with the Dagger. This keeps the 
 game from becoming frustrating, though at times, it all feels a little too easy.
  
  Combat has also received a complete overhaul. Gone are the duels of the old games; now, expect 
 to engage multiple enemies at once, as the enemies teleport to crowd around you as you fight, keeping 
 you as surrounded as possible. Luckily for you, the Prince is quite agile, and targeting enemies 
 in any direction, regardless of where you're facing, is simple. Perhaps most impressive is the 
 vast array of moves and options for fighting that you have at your disposal. Aside from a standard 
 attack, you can counterattack, push off from walls and dive towards your enemy, or run up them 
 and hit them while flipping through the air. The Dagger of Time also comes into play, allowing 
 you to slow the action down or freeze multiple enemies. Also, in order to vanquish your enemy, 
 you must finish them with the dagger of time.
  
  However, as cool as the combat may look, it's actually probably the weakest and least likable aspects 
 of the game. Fortunately, combat comes only sporadically, but when a battle does start, they seem 
 to take forever, as wave after wave of enemies attack. Each enemy has a unique set of skills and 
 a certain weakness... unfortunately, there's only five or so different enemies.
  
  In addition, some spotty control issues during combat make things a little less enjoyable. First 
 off, counterattacks are unreliable, and are so difficult to pull off consistently, that you'll 
 probably never use them. Furthermore, some inconsistencies in targeting enemies sometimes allow 
 you to hit the wrong enemy. For instance, as you're trying to finish off one monster, you accidently 
 stab a conscious monster with the Dagger, wasting some of its power and a lot of your time. But 
 most of all, the combat just gets old.
  
  Graphically, Sands of Time is impressive, employing the use of a lot of great special effects, 
 from motion blurring to soft lighting that behaves more like real light. The special effects are 
 certainly amazing. The character models are not incredibly detailed, but they animate quite well, 
 and everything moves very smoothly at a great framerate. If one negative thing could be said about 
 the graphics, it's that the water effects are mediocre compared to other games.
  
  The sound is truly the best part of the game. The voice acting is superb all around, and the dialogue 
 itself is well-written. The sound effects are competent, but nothing out of the ordinary. The music, 
 however, is a quite extraordinary mix of classic Indian tunes, laced with a little electric guitar 
 and some synthesizer. The effectiveness of the score is heightened once you realize that each battle 
 seems to have its own theme. If there is one downside to the sound, it's that at times, the voice 
 volume dips a little bit and gets overpowered by the music, whereas at other times, there is a 
 perfect sound balance.
  
  The control scheme has been revamped for PC, and in a word, it sucks. Sands of Time is a console 
 port, and it was designed for a gamepad. The keyboard/mouse combo just proves a bit too imprecise 
 for this type of game. And, while designers saw fit to add control options, they also saw fit to 
 take away the unlockable bonuses found on console versions of the game. This is truly upsetting, 
 as you would figure that the PC is the most advanced and capable platform.
  
  All in all, Prince of Persia: Sands of Time, is an enjoyable and engaging game with a truly great 
 endgame that comes all too soon. But, it is a ride worth taking, especially if you have a gamepad 
 for your PC. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
