-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Prisoner of War
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/adventure/prisonerofwar/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct  7, 2002
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 6.6, 20 Review (s)
User Score: 7.1, 154 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Codemasters
Developer: Wide Games
Genre: Historic Shooter
Date:     Sep 30, 2002 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The suspenseful sneaking gameplay and strong dose of character interaction make Prisoner of War 
 a game that's by all means different from most others out there. 

 The idea of being trapped in a Nazi prison camp probably doesn't sound very good, but the idea of 
 busting out of one possibly might. Escape is the goal in Prisoner of War, a short but original 
 and often entertaining adventure game that challenges you to free yourself from the clutches of 
 the Germans during World War II. Prisoner of War features real-time gameplay and an open-ended 
 mission structure, as well as a strong cast of characters, making it better in many ways than your 
 average game. It's hurt somewhat by an uneven presentation and unconvincing artificial intelligence 
 for your German captors, as well as by the game's brevity, but Prisoner of War is still appealing. 
           Captain Stone will need the help of other inmates to escape from prison camp.    

  The game begins as flight jockey Captain Lewis Stone, a rough-and-tough American with a slight 
 Irish accent, is shot down. He's fortunate enough to escape with his life, but he lands right on 
 top of his enemies, who take him to an internment camp for safekeeping. Impatient Captain Stone 
 immediately starts planning his escape, and that's where you take over. The Nazis expect you to 
 stick to a certain routine throughout the day, but to what extent you do so is for you to decide. 
 Contrary to Stone's personality, this is a game about being patient. You'll have to observe your 
 surroundings carefully. You'll have to keep your jailers from getting suspicious by being where 
 you're supposed to be at the appointed times, and then sneak around through the compound when the 
 guards aren't looking, procuring useful items and finding a viable escape route. The presence of 
 an onscreen compass and what's essentially a radar display, which clearly indicates all guards 
 in the vicinity and shows where they're looking, makes the sneaking a lot easier than it would 
 be in reality.   

  By now, stealth elements are common in games. Many games expect you to silently move about and 
 strike only when the enemy isn't looking, in an attempt to even the odds against a superior opponent. 
 Prisoner of War is very different from stealth games like Thief or Metal Gear Solid insofar as 
 it's completely nonviolent. Stone may look and sound tough, but he's not interested in snapping 
 any necks, stealing weapons, or knocking anybody out. He's just trying to get out of Dodge, and 
 you'll help him do this by staying as far away from trouble as you possibly can. Even when Stone 
 picks up something like a crowbar, he'll use it just to pry open padlocks.   

  As a matter of fact, the game goes so far toward being nonviolent that even if you're seen trying 
 to escape and are shot by a German guard, you'll just end up in the infirmary, rather than the 
 morgue. At any rate, because it forces you only to sneak and never to fight, Prisoner of War could 
 be described as a thinking-man's game. Nevertheless, for a game that takes place in the notorious 
 German prison camps Stalag Luft and Colditz Castle, the lack of any real violence in Prisoner of 
 War seems rather bizarre. It's rare to find Nazis in a game where the goal isn't to kill them. 
 Actually, if this game taught you everything you knew about World War II, you'd wonder why Stone 
 was even trying to escape in the first place. Aside from some barbed wire and some armed guards 
 milling about, nothing seems especially unpleasant about the Nazi concentration camps in Prisoner 
 of War, where you eat three square meals a day, show up for afternoon exercise, and have free time 
 in between.   

  If nothing else, you'll want to try to escape because you won't finish the game just by showing 
 up for roll call and then going to the mess hall for breakfast. Escape doesn't just involve staying 
 hidden, but requires a lot of character interaction. You'll meet and deal with many other inmates, 
 as well as some crooked guards, during the game. Conversations with these occur as in typical adventure 
 games, where you can choose from several dialogue options at any given time. There's not much role-playing -- you'll 
 basically want to listen to everything everyone has to say. Friendly characters will help you out 
 to some extent when you're stuck and will fill you in on what to look for, and where. And you'll 
 enjoy listening to them, because the friendly characters are all brought to life with expressive 
 voice-over and a variety of authentic accents, to boot. The same unfortunately can't be said of 
 the Germans, who speak in English but with forced, phony German accents.   

  The actual sneaking mechanics are done reasonably well, though the game can often prove cumbersome 
 to control. Multiple control schemes are available, depending on whether you wish to use a gamepad, 
 a mouse, a mouse and keyboard, or just a keyboard, but all of these seem to be ported over from 
 the console version of Prisoner of War, and none are ideally suited to the PC. The camera in Prisoner 
 of War must be manually adjusted as you run around -- it doesn't just stay put behind the main character, 
 as in third-person games like Max Payne. This can be a real problem, especially when you go into 
 closed areas and also when you have your back against a wall or other obstacle. In terms of Stones' 
 abilities, he can scale short walls and fences and can even crawl under things like beds, where 
 the game switches to a first-person perspective. You can also survey your surroundings from a first-person 
 view, but you can't actually move about from that perspective -- not until you unlock a particular 
 secret, anyway. Stone's motions are nicely animated, and one of the better touches in the game 
 is that bumping into things like chairs or boxes causes them to shift, creating a noise that can 
 alert nearby guards.           Bumbling German guards will give up pursuit if you evade them for 
 a few moments.    

  Possibly the best aspect of Prisoner of War is how it sounds, between the generally great voice 
 acting and the interactive, suspenseful soundtrack that grows more and more tense depending on 
 how precarious of a situation you've put yourself in. The game's graphics aren't quite as impressive, 
 but they're still pretty good. The environments in Prisoner of War look fairly detailed, though 
 a Nazi internment camp isn't much of a sight. But the varied weather effects and the cycle of day 
 into night and back again do look quite convincing. The character models are pretty simple, and 
 even though they move their mouths when they speak, they don't quite succeed at having the realistic 
 appearance the game is going for. You'll still be able to recognize key characters from afar. Unfortunately 
 Prisoner of War's frame rate is rather inconsistent and at times will bog down pretty severely, 
 even on a high-end system, which can make life much more difficult in high-risk situations.   

 
  Prisoner of War has some decidedly interesting qualities, and even though it's a relatively short 
 game, it's still worth a look. The missions are open-ended but not overly difficult, since being 
 captured (or getting shot) isn't terribly punishing. You end up back at the starting point but 
 should be able to get back to where you left off without much trouble. The game's production values 
 have their strong points, and the suspenseful sneaking gameplay and a strong dose of character 
 interaction make Prisoner of War a game that's by all means different from most others out there. 
    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (4 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: scarface_u2
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 30, 2007 10:18 pm PT
Review:  l played this game about 5 yrs back on X-box an found it a total an refreshing game, more thoughtful 
 than your normal war game!!
  
  medal of honour it deffinatly isnt but not in a bad way, this game isnt aimed at being a FPS where 
 you just blitz anyone who comes into view
  
  Its far more indepth than that if you like your games simple easy kill the world type i doubt you 
 will get this or like its more thoughtful an crafty style of play Still a game that is as refreshing 
 to play for the 1st time as Golden-eye, Metal Gear Solid, Driver, Morrowind, Mafia, Deus-ex an Halo
 
  
  True it does not use up 8GB's on your hard-drive, but alot of those that do sadly all turn out be 
 all Flash no story-line, an pretty dull an been there seen it done it, none-sense story or just 
 woeful lncedently the games i listed above ie Halo MGS all added together they wouldn't take up 
 8GB's size isnt important its the story, the originality the immursive world it takes you too
 
  
  Game Developers who really think thru there story-line shine out in the Gamers world, those who 
 dont ....... simply dont This is highly recommended cos 5 years on i can still write a review like 
 this about it. Goldeneye MGS an the like put alot of todays game makers too shame,
  alot of games since have been instantly forgetable an can only be recalled, at a strugle for laughing 
 at purposes
  
  Give it a Try 5yrs on it wont be too expensive!! you may find it is still in your memory long after 
 youve finished playing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JaneWP
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 4, 2006 10:56 pm PT
Review:  This game is the best. I played it years ago, but it keeps appear in my mind, my talking with friends, 
 etc.. Time goes by and I decide that it is a game unforgettable. So classic. I definitely love 
 it. If you just notice the conversations in the game. I think they have verbal values. The talkings 
 are amazingly great. Classic games like this is hard to find now. Most games nowadays have great 
 graphic performance and amazing sound effective and so occupying huge hard disk space. But they 
 have nothing but terrific graphics. POW do not have these facts. But it's still better than any 
 of the high-graphics in my mind. This is what I think. Good for POW! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Medpilot
Rating: 5.3
Date: Feb 25, 2006 5:33 am PT
Review:  The words "prisoner of war" don't spark thoughts of cartoonish humor, but somehow in Codemasters 
 version of WWII the POW's have little to worry about except how to play their next joke on the 
 Nazis. It's obvious to me now after finishing the game that it wasn't meant to play out an accurate 
 account of history or even tell a dramatic fictional version. Instead Prisoner of War mildly entertains 
 with its lighter side and easy tasks. It's a kids game... that even kids aren't interested in. 
 
  On top of it all, the gameplay becomes painfully repetitive as the story unfolds. Only three locations 
 exist in the game which the player is shuffled back and forth from. Once you realize how short-sighted 
 the guards are, you can explore every inch of each location without so much as a tense moment. 
 Very few tools are introduced along the way and even the characters' speech is predictable. In 
 fact, interaction with other characters is for the most part optional as it only wastes time. Saves 
 are also made difficult because of time. You can only save at your bunk in the barracks and after 
 you've saved the game the player must choose from three specific times of day to re-enter play. 
 Talk about waste of time.
  In all fairness however, Prisoner of War entertains somewhat and can't be written off as a complete 
 waste. Just don't give it to someone as a gift... in fact don't spend more than $5 on it at all, 
 wait to find it in the cheap bins. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: terryprior
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 18, 2006 4:26 pm PT
Review:  .The problem is that, when it comes to using all of these fun abilities to accomplish your mission 
 objectives, the game is extremely unforgiving. In a given mission you may have to figure out how 
 to get from HERE to THERE, and you begin attempting different plans of action. Sneak behind this 
 hut. Crawl under this building. Crouch behind this gas tank. You know, standard P. O. W. movie stuff. 
 Much has been made in other reviews of the unrealistic obliviousness of the guards, and that can 
 be true. But despite this, missions tend to fail over and over again as you attempt to figure out 
 how exactly the game wants you to solve a problem. The game is also inconsistent  Okay, I can 
 stand here now and no one sees me, even though theres a guard five feet away . . . but if I stand 
 HERE I get caught immediately. Unlike other good stealth games, you never really know where you 
 stand, and this leads to much player frustration.
  
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
