-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Privateer 2: The Darkening
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sim/privateer2thedarkening/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Feb  6, 1997
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.8
Critic Score: 8.1, 2 Review (s)
User Score: 8.0, 254 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Electronic Arts
Developer: Origin
Genre: Space Combat Sim
Date:     Nov 30, 1996

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
If you can accept its multiple shortcomings, you will find that Privateer 2 is actually a fairly 
 solid game. 

 The latest installment of Origin Systems' prized Wing Commander saga is little more than a clever 
 piece of marketing posing as part of the series. Privateer 2 is a sequel for two reasons only: 
 1) it shamelessly borrows the original Privateer's strong game design made legendary by Firebird's 
 classic intergalactic trading game Elite, and 2) see part 1. So if you're hoping for the latest 
 Wing Commander game, well, you'll just have to keep on hoping.  

 Privateer 2 is touted as a Wing Commander game, but no obvious connection exists. What we have instead 
 of a true sequel is an aesthetically pleasing space flight sim seasoned with high budget full motion 
 video and garnished with more bugs and glitches than this reviewer has ever seen in a product boasting 
 Origin's seal of approval. This is no surprise: Privateer 2 was developed by Electronic Arts of 
 Manchester, and delivered to Origin only for last-minute fixes, updates, and improvements. Origin 
 had to clean up after a mess.  

 Privateer 2 was more than two years in the making. And though marketing may have you believe that 
 this is a testament to its quality, what this lengthy development phase means is that your high-end 
 Pentium machine will likely prove incompatible with the software in any number of ways. For starters, 
 Privateer 2 will not run under Windows 95. Go ahead and dump out to DOS mode if you so much as 
 hope to view the title screen. Its FMV is a technological step in the wrong direction, being darker 
 and more pixelated than Wing Commander IV - and if you own a Rendition Verite-based graphics accelerator 
 card, you won't be able to watch more than ten seconds' worth without your machine grinding to 
 a halt. The game also tends to crash during landing sequences after grueling combat missions or 
 commodity runs. Too bad you can't save until you're safely back at base. Origin's patch is supposed 
 to address all these problems and more, but such a patch cannot mend the frustrating sentiment 
 that Privateer 2 (despite multiple delays) was rushed out the door.  

 If you can accept its multiple shortcomings, you will find that Privateer 2 is actually a fairly 
 solid game. Its space flight engine is top-notch, featuring highly detailed and very attractive 
 polygonal spacecraft complete with realistic lighting and innovative special effects, such as real-time 
 lens flare. The game's plot, focusing on the hero's misplaced identity, is intriguing and well-acted 
 for the most part, and Privateer 2's interface is fresh and attractive. Yet the enemy AI is mediocre 
 at best, and the plot is almost completely linear. Even the interface may quickly become cumbersome 
 and annoying, with its useless animated buttons and chirpy sound effects. Privateer 2 is set to 
 a MIDI soundtrack (rather than the now-standard redbook or digital audio formats) , and you can 
 rest assured it will sound awful unless you're running a Roland Sound Canvas or a comparable MIDI 
 sound board. Its sound effects are average, while the FMV dialogue is oft times unintelligible 
 because of over-sampled background music.  

 Perhaps Privateer 2 simply pushed all the wrong buttons. To its benefit, this game offers a lengthy 
 quest and a vast variety of spacecraft to fly and fight against. Its simple, almost arcade-like 
 space combat engine is clean, fluid, and visually powerful. If this title hadn't stumbled in so 
 many technical areas, and if it hadn't so wrongfully claimed the Wing Commander name for itself, 
 then poor old Privateer 2 may have found a warmer place in this reviewer's heart.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (8 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Mr_Laffer
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 23, 2008 1:47 pm PT
Review:  If you havent played this game, you propably never will, thanks to the Gamespot review. Giving 
 Privateer 2 a dissapointing 6.8, doesnt show that the Gamespot reviews provide quality.. it just 
 shows, that the reviewer hasnt played more than an hour in this fantastic Space Combat Simulation. 
 
  
  Ok, your Lev Arris.. after the spaceship your in crashes on a planet, you awake in an hospital. 
 You have no memory of your past. find out who you are! ... well seems like a boring story? Sure, 
 doesnt sound innovative. Well theres a good reason for thinking the story is lame, but trust me, 
 youll never guess the end.
  
  In Privateer 2 you fly from planet to planet, following the main plot, or just trading around, 
 trying to make your average space ship you got at the beginning to a flying fortress of destruction. 
 
  You can buy of course better ships, and than level them up with new lasers, rockets, armor, shields, 
 and so on. To get money you have to trade resourcess you get on the planets. A Bulletin board shows 
 you where something is needed. There are also the usual possibilities, of becoming a pirate (watch 
 out for the police) or a headhunter (watch out for pirates) !
  Ok, doesnt sound ground breaking so far. The fact that you havent as much galaxies or planet as 
 in freelancer or other late SpaceSims, also doesnt speak for it. 
  Its part of the presentation that makes this game and the lame-sounding-story, realy playworth. 
 Ok, you maybe have only a few planets you can fly to, but compared to games like freelancer or 
 Darkstar One, these planets have character. Every planet has a unique design and n unique landing/take 
 off scence. Also, when you are in space, in the orbit of a planet, you will recognize where in 
 space your at. Not like in newer SpaceSims, where every bit of the Space seems randomly generated, 
 with no chance of recognizing a planet by its surface. So having less of different, is sometimes 
 more worth than having much of the same.
  
  Did I mention that its all FMVs? Because thats what makes the game great. Ok, some may say FMVs 
 break the game-flow... keepin cutscenes in the game engine is so much better. Ok, i have played 
 a lot of SpaceSims, and i have to say, that besides of the Wing Commander games (3+4) and Privateer 
 2, theres no SpaceSim i can remember a bit of their storys. Freelancer? What was that all about? 
 Dont remember, must have been very uninterestin. But in this game, you will remember the story. 
 Thanks to the FMVs and the phenomenal cast. There are: Clive Owen (as Lev Arris) , John Hurt, Christopher 
 Walken, Juergen Prochnow ... just to mention a few. So Privateer 2 makes not only a great Space 
 Combat Sim, but also a great Movie. Everything is well done, and doesnt look like Low budget B 
 Movie.
  
  The graphics, for its time, were also cool. I think it was the first game i played using a Lens 
 Flear effect (in Space) . The design of the ships, was just right. The HUD display was also a very 
 stylish one, giving you a lot of information on your screen. In every way, newer Space Sims, now 
 use what was first introduced in Privateer 2. In any way a lot better than the graphics of Wing 
 Commander 4.
  
  So overall, this game is not only excellent, its one of the best of its kind. Possible, you have 
 much more freedome in other games, but this gives you a very well made closed universe, where you 
 will enjoy staying and flying around. So, great Characters.. played by a great cast, great graphics 
 .. for its time .. and also great gameplay (shooting at enemies is fun) .
  
  For me, this game will always stay in my mind as the best Space Combat Sim to date! No other Space 
 Sim engaged me that much in the story! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Impulse1195
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 21, 2007 4:56 pm PT
Review:  Privateer 2: The Darkening is definately one of the games I remember very clearly, despite having 
 played it nearly 10 years ago. This is because it offered up a lot of things I hadnt yet seen in 
 the space sim genre, at least not as in depth as it was in this game. Nowadays though, better games 
 exist if you are looking to get into space sim games. However you still would not be making a bad 
 choice, in opting to pick this game up (Assuming you have a way to rig your system into being compatible 
 with it.)
  
  The gamespot reviewer is spot on on a few points, but not all. Some missions tend to be pretty 
 difficult, and grueling.. only to be met with a crash when trying to land on a planet... of course 
 this means you have to do that last grueling mission over AGAIN since you didnt get a chance to 
 save your game before it crapped out on you. But, if your able to get into the story above anything 
 else, and if you enjoy space sims to any real degree... these things shouldnt hamper your experience 
 too horribly much. Something else that kind of bothered me (though isnt all that game breaking) 
 is everytime you get better gear, and upgrade your ship, the enemies become that much stronger. 
 So in the end, all your upgrades dont help you defeat your enemies any easier because they scale 
 WITH YOU.
  
  Problems, and annoyances aside, this game does a LOT right. For example, the characters are surprisingly 
 well cast. With high budget actors like Clive Owen, and Christopher Walken playing central characters 
 to the game. Also the ability to land on planets is a nice touch for a game of its time. There 
 are often times places to go, other than the spaceport on most planets. Such as a bar, or a salvage 
 company, or a hospital.... etc. The story usually unfolds in places such as these, when you meet 
 up with certain benefactors who give you missions, and information as to what you need to do to 
 finish the central plot. Another thing I immensely enjoyed, is when your character (Clive Owen) 
 interacts with others, you can select his responses and actions from a couple of onscreen options, 
 very similar to KOTOR, but actually was made in the same vein as in the Wing Commander games, where 
 that feature is also prevalent.
  
  In the end, this game has been very memorable to me due in part to the awesome FMV, and the enjoyable 
 missions.. and thats really what its all about. After having played all the Wing Commander titles, 
 Privateer 2 really helped to scratch that itch of wanting to be a free pilot, with a personal ship... 
 etc. You're part of no military force in this game, and this world is really fleshed out wonferfully 
 with great detail to show the gritty underworld that exists in this series; one that until this 
 game was released, we had never seen before. By the end... you'll definately want to see more of 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Grifter75
Rating: 7.8
Date: Oct 17, 2006 12:49 pm PT
Review:  I had such a love-hate relationship with this game. When I first played it, I couldn't believe 
 the amount of freedom I was alloted. Never before had I played a game that just allowed me to either 
 play missions or just kill baddies, collect doe, and upgrade my ship and equipment. Playing this 
 game back in 1996 was the equivilency of how I felt playing GTA III not too long ago. I Never had 
 such freedom in a game. As the main review says, it was just plagued to death with bugs!! The landing 
 sequences would randomly crash the game. I remember there was this one landing sequence that would 
 just not work no matter what I tried to do differently in my approach to it, the game crashed out 
 everytime and that was where I had to end my progress in the game because of freakin bug that NEVER 
 was fixed by the maker. Truly dissapointing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Celine_Aensland
Rating: 5.8
Date: Oct 1, 2006 8:31 am PT
Review:  Seriously, why do you guys think this deserves a 9?! It doesn't even merit an 8, and I'd be going 
 out on a limb to even suggest a 7.
  
  Let me put the record straight - Privateer 2: The Darkening came out in the heyday of the FMV craze: 
 it was neither groundbreaking, nor a particularly good specimen. Too many scenes are repeated and 
 recycled - try landing at a couple of bases and compare the ones of the same type. The story itself 
 is so-so, but I'll admit I don't really mind about stories unless they're glaringly disjointed 
 or possess other obvious flaws. Priv2 doesn't, but it doesn't shine either.
  
  Best in the series? Are you guys insane? Check out reviews all over the web - overwhelmingly you 
 will see support for the original. In fact, later space sim traders (e. g. Freelancer) all owe it 
 to the original Privateer - nowhere is Priv2 even mentioned. I admit the fact that it got released 
 for DOS in the dying days was a bad tactical move, but still even then it could've made a name 
 for itself had it been any good. As it is, it's just barely decent.
  
  They switched fuel from jump to afterburners. While having afterburners use fuel might make some 
 sort of sense, it doesn't make sense for jumping to not use fuel - after all, intersystem travel 
 is more complex. This means that you can jump all the way clear across the galaxy - I'd say that 
 makes even less sense. The mechanics of the ship engines lend themselves to the unlimited afterburner 
 theory better anyway, after all you don't refuel for normal flight now, do you? The afterburners 
 aren't additional, separate engines, they're just mods to the one you have. You won't be able to 
 fly with afterburners but no engine.
  
  Mouse control was akward. This game was seriously the reason why I thought other games would be 
 insane to use the mouse - fortunately Freelancer proved me wrong, but that was YEARS later. Being 
 at the end of the DOS era, this game had mostly joystick support, with the usual hassles of getting 
 your joystick setup properly for DOS play.
  
  The different random mission types had more variety, but they were let down by poor AI. The AI 
 in the game is worse than in the original - escortees would frequently not jump with you and get 
 left behind, or lost, causing you to fail your mission. Enemies were even more fond of head-on 
 collisions than in the original game, throwing what little combat strategy was left out the window.
 
  
  Many ships were noticeably weaker or stronger than some, rendering the majority useless for purchasing 
 considerations. There was even less component customisation than the original game, reducing you 
 to just getting one of the best ships and maxing it out.
  
  Graphically, it is nicer, but what do you expect? The original Privateer used a modified engine 
 of the early Wing Commander games, obviously not in the same FMV-heavy class of the later ones. 
 This is about the only advantage over the original game, and if you think this factor alone justifies 
 giving it a better score, you're out of your mind.
  
  It's been years since I actually played Priv2, but I remember all this precisely because I was 
 let down - like other fans of the original, I had high hopes for it - even now people still mention 
 Privateer when talking about this genre. That's how high the bar it set and how much of an impact 
 it made.
  
  If Priv2 was any good don't you think I'd be singing it's praises rather than reminiscing about 
 the original game? And to top it off, check out the fan remake projects - NONE of them focus on 
 this game, they all are oriented to the original Privateer.
  
  If you haven't played this game, I wouldn't recommend it to you. Only die-hard fans of the original 
 game might want to have it, for collection completeness' sake. Other than that, unless you have 
 some pocket change to burn on a bargain bin purchase, avoid this game - you're not missing much. 
 If you really want an introduction to this genre (space sim trading) , pick up Freelancer instead: 
 it's recent enough to not look too old and off-putting, it's simple enough for newbies to get into, 
 it's got decent depth to hold your attention for a while, and if it really turns you on, you can 
 find mods for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: easy0neasy0ff
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 23, 2006 5:53 pm PT
Review:  This is another PC addiction I had when I first started playing PC gamers serriously. I was so 
 hooked on combat sims at the time - eg. - 
  ( mechwarrior, x-wing/tie-fighter) I might as well have been on drugs. Staying in my room staying 
 up all night , with my joystick in my hand haha. Ok seriously, this was a title that didnt get 
 the praise it deserved. The world was so open and sure exploring took a while, but when your really 
 engrossed in the game its all a blur anyways. The cut scenes are all CGI which was a staple for 
 the wing commander series, and works well for keeping the story interesting. At times you could 
 choose what to say in the middle of a cut scene, which is a great way to get the player really 
 hooked. I can see why some people would find this title difficult to play, and they dont spell 
 out things for you objectives wise. This is actually how I prefer my games, as I dont like my hand 
 being held just to shoot something or some other random easy task. The sounds are done well , and 
 even being a DOS based game didnt keep it from looking great too. The combat controls are great 
 if you have a good flight stick. The menus, although, are another small flaw - as navigating between 
 locations and information can be taxing. I wont go into the story because I dont like to give anything 
 away; thats half the fun of any game. I know this game is very difficult to get your hands on, 
 and hell If I could I would let everyone borrow mine to see how good it is. If you can find it, 
 play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eranweisse
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 19, 2006 8:22 am PT
Review:  I loved it.
  the story line is grate and it didn't like windows at first ( down whit bill gates )
  the movies 
 are great and the game play as a very dynamic economy 
  I have ones thought of buying an old computer just for playing it/
  I can't believe you just 
 gave it 6.4 any time I think about the game I get a nostalgic kind of a feeling I call you to reconsider 
 the game rating
  it is truly a Gem of a game Privateer 2: The Darkening will live forever
  
  When writing your review, remember to keep the language clean. Reviews must be 100 words minimum. 
 We encourage you to try to get your review right the first time -- you may choose to edit it later 
 on, but by doing so, you will lose any positive feedback associated with the review. We encourage 
 you to write your review in a word processor or text editor, save it to your local disk, then copy 
 and paste it into the posting box below. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gyralorn19
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 3, 2006 7:46 pm PT
Review:  Well, lets get to the point. There is a lot to like and not much to not like about P2. Granted, 
 I never focused on getting very deep in the story, but the game play itself is quite immersive 
 and addicting. I can't get enough of flying from nav point to nav point, killing pirates on the 
 fly, completing missions, and raking in the credits. 
  
  Lets talk graphics. I only got this game a year or so ago. So we already had more powerful graphics 
 than previous hardware was capable of. But the graphiics impressed me nonetheless. Simply amazing. 
 Oh, of course they're not equal to modern gaming. But you have to remember that the game was made 
 for Windows 95. That was years ago, and back then, those graphics were amazing. On any hardware
 
  
  Gameplay. This is were the game gets it's strength and the majority to it's overall value (again, 
 my opinion, yours may differ) , and it does a great job. The game's flying engine is one of the 
 best I've seen ( I must confess that I've never played that many space flight sims before, only 
 aviation simulators) . The missions, though at times a bit repetitive, are a lot of fun, and you 
 will find yourself hoping that your favorite ones become available again. The space combat (which 
 happens whether you're on a mission or not) , which comprises most of the action, is fun and addictive, 
 and will have you playing for hours at time. 
  
  Sound. For a Windows 95 title, this game has some pretty good sound. Each planet has it's own soundtrack, 
 and the basic spaceflight music is acually relaxing (well, a bit) . the music gets more intense 
 when you enter combat, which makes the combat feel cooler.
  
  Overall, this is one of my favorite games. I can spend hours at a time playing, and not get bored 
 or tired. Whether it's saving up for the best ship, upgrading your current ride, completing that 
 grueling mission, or just flying around killing random pirates (or law enforcement, If your the 
 outlaw-type gamer) , this game simply rocks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: liorde
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 12, 2005 1:30 am PT
Review:  I think it deserves more than what it got here...
  Considering the time it was released, I honestly think this game is a gem in the rough. Sure it 
 is not as polished as you would expect from a game these days, but then again, when it was released, 
 QA was not something that was taken very seriously.
  The bugs in this game are definitely tollerable and there are not that many.
  This was the first 
 sci-fi sim I have played back on my old 200MHZ pc. That was in 1996-1997. I fell in love with this 
 game. The plot is terrific and immersive. You are trying to find out who you are exactly and how 
 you arrived on this planet. On the way, you get to meet various types of characters, you get missions 
 and it all get much more interesting as you fly along.
  The graphics are great, they really are. I am a gamer that cares less for graphics but care a lot 
 for story, plot & development and the "immersiveness" factor. Meaning, how much the game "sucks" 
 you in...
  Today, I have a much stronger machine and I can still play it. I have the Windows 95 (Deluxe) version 
 and gladly, it works also on Windows XP. No patches, no 3rd party software is needed. Just install, 
 calibrate your stick and off you go. Maybe I was lucky with this game because old game tend NOT 
 to run on today's PC, but I can't care less. It runs and I am happy with it. I have been playing 
 it through the entire weekend with a wide grin on my face. I really missed this game. The nice 
 FMV's, you get to see some well knows movie actors such as Christopher Walken, Clive Owen, and 
 more. The brutal battles etc...
  The fighting itself in space is pretty striaght forward. Of course there are some tactics especially 
 when battling great shuttles. Mainly you have to look forward to upgrading you ship, pronto, and 
 of course it's weaponry and armor. This brings you to the other side of the game which is the commerce. 
 In this game, there is a well developed trading community. There are many planets in the star system 
 and you are free to choose your path. Choose it wisely, or else, you will be loosing money other 
 then making big profits. I for example, just started the game, so I got me a crappy ship and 2 
 laser guns, 2 missles to go along with them. I have a short trading route, which I use to pump 
 up my bank account. This is how it goes in the beginning. You start small, and then you grow and 
 the big bucks start comin' in. 
  This game is NOT a no brainer, meaning, that if you wish to succeed in doing money right you have 
 to read some material about the planets, the trading routes, there are news bulletins that inform 
 you of crisis in the start system, that can results in big profits for you.
  All in all, the game is very well made. Too bad there is no remake for this game. You know, something 
 that will come on a nice DVD, improved graphics and full screen FMV's.... but that is wishing too 
 much I guess.
  
  Get you hands on this game if you have not done so yet. You will not regret it, and do NOT let 
 the release date alarm you. Remember than Wing Commander 4 is even older, but is considered one 
 of the best space sims yet to be...
  
  Happy flying !!
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
