-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Pro Evolution Soccer 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sports/pes2008/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Some refinement in terms of playability.
 Opponent artificial intelligence mixes up playing styles.
 Certain players look realistic.
 PC version runs well on modest systems.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Adds no new features to last year's game.
 Still lags online.
 Poor presentation in every respect.
 Graphically and aurally subpar.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 20, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 8.0, 5 Review (s)
User Score: 8.0, 1,353 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Konami
Genre: Soccer Sim
Date:     Oct 26, 2007 (EU)

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Pro Evolution Soccer 2008 looks sharp and plays well on the PC. However, the online mode is buggy 
 and there's little in the way of new features. 

  If you're looking to play this year's Pro Evolution Soccer, you could do worse than check out the 
 PC version. Judged on its own merits, it stacks up well against the console equivalents by looking 
 sharp and playing well, especially if you have a couple of Xbox 360 joypads. However, compared 
 to other sports games, Pro Evolution Soccer is struggling to keep up with the times. The presentation 
 is unpolished, with poor online functionality, mediocre commentary, and few officially licensed 
 teams. More importantly, practically no new features have been added to last year's game while 
 the online gameplay is buggy with frequent lag and disconnection problems. Ultimately, PES 2008 
 plays a great game of football, but it's starting to seriously fall behind its contemporaries in 
 terms of features.  

           You don't need a fast computer to get the most from the PC version of Pro Evolution Soccer, 
 which looks sharp and moves well.      

  If you're a newcomer to the series, you'll be impressed at how well Pro Evolution Soccer 2008 plays. 
 It captures the realism of the sport almost perfectly but, most importantly, it also remains eminently 
 playable. Thanks to a combination of exquisite control, superb animation, and worthy artificial 
 intelligence, it's highly replayable in single-player, but it really comes into its own in multiplayer. 
 With that said, series veterans may wonder what exactly Konami has done to improve the gameplay 
 in the past year. Aside from making minor tweaks to the animation and AI, it's fundamentally unchanged 
 from Pro Evolution Soccer 6.  

  The biggest upgrade to the game is supposedly the new Teamvision artificial intelligence system, 
 although its claims to revolutionise the playing experience prove to be overstated. Computer-controlled 
 opponents are slightly more intelligent when it comes to changing playing styles, although defenders 
 still feel a little bit superhuman in their ability to resist attack. Overall, the game feels more 
 fluid than last year, but rather than feeling revolutionary, the improvement just feels like a 
 return to the earlier glory of the series. In fact, the immediate changes feel so minor that even 
 hardcore fans of the series will have trouble picking them out. The ball feels slightly weightier 
 and players move with more physicality. They also tussle with each other more, pulling shirts and 
 out-muscling each other over the ball. It adds up to a more natural-feeling game this year where 
 you can still play an accomplished game of football. Anyone who hasn't played Pro Evolution Soccer 
 will find that this is still a solidly playable game, but long-term fans may wonder what Konami's 
 done this year to deserve the 50 upgrade fee.  

  Many of the new gameplay tweaks are actually more annoying than they are welcome. Goalkeepers now 
 fumble the ball with infuriating regularity, and the fast pace now makes Pro Evo feel more like 
 an arcade game rather than a simulation. Another new feature that betrays the game's simulation 
 roots is the ability to make your players take a dive. It's something that undoubtedly happens 
 in the real world, but its inclusion in a serious video game could be seen to tarnish an otherwise 
 respectful representation of the sport. Used in the penalty area, the dive can win penalties, and 
 while it's only successful in the minority of cases, it could be used to tip the balance of the 
 game. We expect that discerning gamers will shun the new skill out of sportsmanship, but it'll 
 be a real shame if faceless online players manage to win games by effectively employing the tactic. 

           The master league mode has a new emphasis on pleasing the fans, but it's otherwise business 
 as usual.      

  In terms of features, the PC version is broadly the same as the PlayStation 3 and Xbox 360 iterations. 
 Unfortunately, it lacks some of the cool new game modes from the PlayStation 2, including the world 
 tour and the community mode. The latter mode allowed up to 16 people to compete in cups and tournaments 
 on a single console. Instead, what you do get is the usual match, tournament, and cup modes, which 
 up to four people can play simultaneously as long as you have enough controllers. There's also 
 the master league, which forms the main challenge for the single-player mode. As well as allowing 
 you to play through a series of proper football seasons, the master league offers up basic management 
 functions that include training and transfers. This year, players also talk to the media and do 
 interviews, although as with every other part of the master league, this pales in comparison to 
 dedicated management games. While it's not really trying to compete with such games as Football 
 Manager, many of the tasks feel like distractions from the main job of playing the league itself. 
 Basically, the master league is the same as it's been in previous versions. True, signing talent 
 is an important part of winning, but it simply isn't in-depth enough to warrant spending lots of 
 time on training and scouting. The main idea is to perfect your starting lineup, get your players 
 in a decent formation, and play well on the pitch.  

  The online offering is built to offer two-player ranked and unranked matches over the Internet. 
 The retail build of the game was lamented by fans for lagging too much, and even though Konami 
 quickly issued a patch, it's done little to remedy the problems. It's nowhere nearly as bad as 
 the PlayStation 3, but a fair bit of slowdown affects online performance even when you have a decent 
 connection. We also encountered a high proportion of disconnections. While some of these could 
 have been down to the users, it was indicative of a patchy and unpredictable service.  

  Aside from the somewhat patchy performance, Pro Evolution Soccer 2008 is severely lacking when 
 it comes to overall Internet functionality. There are no real-world score tickers, no news feeds, 
 and no online leagues -- features which the rival FIFA series has been offering for two years now. 
 There's no voice chat either -- just a text interface for typing in pre-match messages. Even worse, 
 the only games you can play are single matches. The complete lack of online leagues and tournaments 
 is restrictive when compared to other sports games on the market. It's also worth noting that the 
 online registration process locks your copy of the game to your Konami account for online play. 
 This means that if you ever want to sell your copy of the game, the next person will be unable 
 to play online unless he or she has your registration details.  

  Presentation has never been Pro Evolution Soccer's strong point, and the 2008 version does little 
 to break with tradition. The menu system is basic and unwelcoming while the soundtrack tries to 
 span genres but is awful throughout. The majority of teams also don't feature the official kits. 
 This will be a familiar problem to fans, but Konami's selection is becoming increasingly schizophrenic. 
 English Premier League teams Newcastle United and Tottenham Hotspur are now included. But this 
 is at the expense of Manchester United and Arsenal, who've been out since the last game. We assume 
 that Newcastle was included thanks to star striker Michael Owen adorning the cover of the game, 
 but the same theory doesn't apply to Christiano Ronaldo and Manchester United (who are named "Man 
 Red") . There are only 15 stadiums, and although Mark Lawrenson is now onboard as a commentator, 
 his contributions are frequently inaccurate.  

           You'll definitely need a joypad to get the most out of PES 2008.      

  In terms of 
 graphics, the PC version looks even sharper than its PS3 and Xbox 360 counterparts, running well 
 even on modest systems. We had no problem cranking the detail and resolution right up to the maximum 
 settings on an 18-month-old test machine, with no drop in overall performance. Certain player likenesses, 
 such as the aforementioned Christiano Ronaldo, are very realistic. However, the game offers little 
 in the way of incidental graphical effects, such as true cloth deformation, video walls, or goalkeeper 
 head protection. We also like the fact that the referee can be seen on pitch, although waiting 
 the few seconds for him to blow his whistle for free kicks is detrimental to the pace of the game. 
 Ultimately, the success of Pro Evolution Soccer is a paradox for the game's designers. It's difficult 
 to improve on the standard that was achieved with the fifth version of the game, but the designers 
 could certainly start by introducing some truly new features to build on the excellent playability. 
 Konami has tried to make subtle changes to the gameplay, some of which are successful and some 
 of which are not. However, what the game really needs are new modes, features, and online offerings 
 to warrant the upgrade, as well as bring it in line with other PC sports offerings. It will be 
 quite a task, but next year's game needs to deliver all this and more if it's to retain its massive 
 fan base.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (59 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: akinburak
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 28, 2009 2:36 pm PT
Review:  I liked it much more than the last one - PES 2009. It is much more complex to play and have more 
 revolutions in game playing. 
  
  Unfortunately, the graphics are not good as to be expected. Actually, PES 2007 was more realistic 
 as it used the same engine in game playing. ( correct me if I am wrong about the engine)
  
  
  
  I liked it much more than the last one - PES 2009. It is much more complex to play and 
 have more revolutions in game playing. 
  
  Unfortunately, the graphics are not good as to be expected. Actually, PES 2007 was more realistic 
 as it used the same engine in game playing. ( correct me if I am wrong about the engine)
  
  
  
  
  
  I liked it much more than the last one - PES 2009. It is much more complex to play 
 and have more revolutions in game playing. 
  
  Unfortunately, the graphics are not good as to be expected. Actually, PES 2007 was more realistic 
 as it used the same engine in game playing. ( correct me if I am wrong about the engine)
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fandom888
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 5, 2008 11:44 am PT
Review:  After many years, the PES series finally show some seriousness. After some great games, the series 
 continue to climb up the ladder of popularity and respect with Konami's new game, the 2008 Pro 
 Evolution Soccer.
  
  TRhis year the developers have licences even more leagues and teams, offering to the players a 
 greater overall vieew, which is still plagued by serious lack of authenticity. What is improved 
 enough, is the playability style of the series. nevertheless, it is not that good, not good enough 
 to convince older fans to make a try with the game.
  
  What should be noted, is that only certain football stars look realistic enough, such as Ronaldinho 
 and Messi. But the rest players look all the same, really annoying it is for a game which has to 
 do with such a complex texture structure.
  
  Anyway, the best thing about PES is the AI, which uses a compex and innovating system, which allows 
 to every team to have its own playing style and to every player to have his own preferences and 
 style.
  
  But in fact, there is no addition at all, not something notably added. And what I believe is that 
 a game which has to do with annual sequels should be not only improved in some ways, but also to 
 add new features and stuff to play with. On the contrary, PES goes backwards in two cases.
  
  The first one is the online or multiplayer play, which is so complex and difficult to use and 
 understand, thus making players to completely ignore it. And of course, as we all know, a good 
 sports game offers a good online play.
  
  The second issue tagged as negative, is the visual performance of the game, whis is pathetic, annoying 
 and unforgettably awful. The very low frame rate, poor replays and cameras and the catastrophic 
 visual progress is what will haunt your dreams of winning matches and trophies. Luckily, the graphics 
 are partly improved when running the game in a higer resolution.
  
  PES 2008 is a very good soccer sim which is hold in a very high position for the third consecutive 
 year. But some problems you will face while playing is what makes me recommend you the FIFA 2008. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sergio200042003
Rating: 1
Date: Oct 24, 2008 2:47 pm PT
Review:  Unfortunately KONAMI real messed up with this game! I loved PES 4, 5 and 6 but this game is subliminal! 
 With the exception of graphic improvement, the game itself is ZERO. It has no substance only a 
 fake originality of what it should have been an amazing simulator! That stupid programming (you 
 cannot score twice from the same position in a match) only makes this game less playable and it 
 fails dramatically!
  The tactical changes in a team during a match, they almost make no difference when playing against 
 the computer; the computer can score no matter how good you set your defense or it will have no 
 trouble in defense if you put your team "all out attack"
  The player's movement is unrealistic when passing, dribbling, tackling or running!
  This game 
 isn't worth playing cause it is a disappointing arcade game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coughing
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 10, 2008 8:35 pm PT
Review:  PES is undoubtedly the best soccer/football simulation out there, so much so FIFA changed their 
 control scheme to the PES one. If you enjoy pretty graphics and authentic clubs, etc, stick to 
 FIFA, but if you want gameplay, PES is the game for you.
  
  Many things have changed since PES 6. The Edit Mode menu has changed drastically and although not 
 quite user friendly, is still relatively easy to use, and this is a major factor as you will want 
 to edit you club's name to the proper one. (Eg. Liverpool FC was called Merseyside Red)
  
  The graphics system has also changed, but that's not a bad thing, considering most things visually 
 have been improved.
  
  Gameplay is where the old PES and new PES clash. PES 2008 has more emphasis on short passing, ball 
 control, making it harder to score. And according to Konami, they have a new feature called "team 
 vision" where the AI will adapt to your tactics and make you more ineffective. For example, in 
 PES 6, you could get a fast winger and make him bomb down the flanks. In PES 2008, after going 
 down the flanks 2 times, the AI will send more players to that area, where you will have a harder 
 time getting past them.
  
  Another change is the freekick system. FINALLY, we can score a direct freekick!. Players have complained 
 in the past that the freekick system was too hard to master, what with swerve, dip, power and direction, 
 but Konami seems to have changed the freekick system altogether. The flaw now is that a close range 
 freekick is almost a guaranteed goal if you have a good kicker. Take (say Gerrard) a player with 
 a fierce shot. All you have to do is aim a little to the left or right of the keeper, and blast 
 the shot as hard as the player can. Most likely, the goalie will fail to make contact, making it 
 easier to score.
  
  Commentary also gets boring after a while. When you spend as much time as I have on the game, you 
 basically memorize everything they say and it just gets repetitive.
  
  All in all, PES 2008 may still have it's flaws but that won't stop you from having a good time. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dragospodariu
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 26, 2008 1:07 pm PT
Review:  all right.
  if you want to know why the game is good and bad too read this
  
  graphics:
  they are god.
  some players look like in real life
  
  dificulty:
  the game 
 is just too easy
  no matter what difuculty you play on or what team you play with because this game is the easiest 
 i've ever played.
  
  sound\music
  they aren't so bad but they aren't neither good.
  they're between good and bad (mediocre)
  
  players:
  
  another thing that sucks about this 
 game is that
  you can't buy players for your team (in master league mode)
  until the season is finished
  on the other hand you can create your own player boost their stats 
 and
  use them in master league mode
  
  gameplay:
  is too easy too score a goal
  easier than in the euro 2008
  or fifa 2000 , 2001 ,2002 and 2003
  
  all right that's all 
 i've got to say about this game
  hope you'l try it too
  i promise. you'l like it very very much
  good bye
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Andre03
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 15, 2008 7:07 pm PT
Review:  Nice game, nice graphics, everything is nice. Nothing more, nothing less. But, like in all the 
 other W11 games, the computer cheats. But now the cheating have reached a whole new level. Playing 
 in master leage, a crossing from the cpu? Goal. Now doubt. My players never, NEVER win an air dispute. 
 My players are veeeery slow, they can't overrun the cpu's fowards, but when is the other way around, 
 even the goal keeper can overrun mine. And all that still not talking about the "certain goal script" 
 that the pc uses some times. I'm there, in a battle, play by play, 2 over times, but then... goal??!!! 
 The cpu does some crazy speed of light crosses, some 1-2 plays and there it is, goal for the pc. 
 Man, that totally ruins the game. And, last but not less important, why GOD my players keep falling 
 after being dribbled by the pc? I watch 2 soccer matches almost every week, and I NEVER saw the 
 players falling so much... Despite all of this, when you play with your friends, the game is gorgeous. 
 The players are very look'-a-like the real ones, you can do almost everything that you want, a 
 lot of resources to explore, it's a excellent choice to play with your gang. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Toleanu
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 13, 2008 2:24 am PT
Review:  PES2008 is very realistic simulator of that what we Europeans call FOOTBALL! I am playing it and 
 it's graphics are worthy of a good mark but the game-play does worth a best mark in this field. 
 Everything is realistic even the bouncing ball from the keeper is a nice detail that no other simulator 
 has. Also the good imitation of the real football player is amazing: they do look the same but 
 also they are playing as they real protagonists. If to compare this game with Fifa 2008 then there 
 is no standing for the last one. The game-play really exceeds in PES 2008 and make this piece of 
 art an incomparable title in the soccer simulator field. There are some downs for the game I suppose. 
 But the light menu and the truly inactive play with the keyboard arent supposed to beat 
 the real deal of this game. For those who like such sports games it's a "must have" one! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Armandm3
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 10, 2008 9:23 am PT
Review:  Pro Evolution 2008 is one of the best football simulation on the market its is on the same line 
 to Fifa 2008 the other one from EA. 
  
  Pro Evolution 2008 for PC has change some new features and had added new ones. For example now 
 while being tackled you can make a dive and sometimes can push the referee to make mistake and 
 give you a foul and maybe a penalty. Thats nice but sometimes you can be warned for simulation. 
 Another problem is that KONAMI didn't change the button configuration that was on XBOX and thus 
 it is a little difficult to know easily how to play if you don't have the official manual. 
  
  One bad thing about the PES 2008 is that it does not change a lot from the previous version. 
 The graphics are practically the same on PS2 version but a slight improvement can be seen on the 
 PC version. The sound are still the same from the previous one and that a little annoying.
  
  Hope KONAMI will make a good Pro Evolution 2009 same as they did for MGS4 recently.
  
  
 Personally from me I prefer PES 2008 to Fifa 2008. So if you don't have it I will recommend you 
 to download it and have fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spankdamonky
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 6, 2008 12:27 pm PT
Review:  For those that aren't new to the series, you will find deep differences between the previous PES 
 title and this one. For starters, the graphics are very much alike the XBOX360 version which is 
 a great thing indeed. The more talented or well-known players are recognizable (Deco; Ronaldinho; 
 Ibrahimovic; Ronaldo, etc...) ! The stadiums are very well designed, but lacking in variety. 
  
  Sound-wise the game is 50/50. The commentaries are good and the crowd delivers emotion at the 
 right time. But the soundtrack is plain lame!
  
  The ball physics is the best there is in any football game to date.
  
  The game play... well, 
 it's the one most tricky department in the game, especially if you are playing against the cpu 
 in Top Player difficulty setting. There are matches that you can send 4 balls to the irons, 65% 
 of ball possession, plus 5 shots that are corresponded with almost impossible defences, and the 
 adversary can pull one single shot straight to the net. Result? 0-1 to the cpu controlled player! 
 The referee in most of the cases don't help either!
  Ah... almost forgot of mentioning the stupid-ass cpu players that play for your side! Ever gotten 
 into a red card situation with a teammate tackling from behind without your request? I did!
  Strangely it's very satisfying to play PES2008!
  
  Master League mode is again the main single 
 player campaign. Pick a team, and take it to the top. Transfering players from one team to another 
 in order to have a more balanced side! Oh... i find Cristiano Ronaldo almost impossible to transfer 
 to your team. Don't no why!: D
  
  But where PES2008 really shines is in multiplayer matches! It really gets your blood boiling! Fast 
 and furious paced gameplay... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: COWS2
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 29, 2008 5:48 pm PT
Review:  First of all i want to say this. PES 08 will make you frustrated and happy at the same time. 
 
  
  Gameplay: 9/10: I play soccer for a club team in Edmonton and god damn it i love to play this game 
 on expert its so fun! It makes you feel like your in the game and you really want to hammer one 
 in from the 18 yard box and do a fist pump when you score.
  Graphics 8/10 Some players look amazing but there's the occasional hiccup like a doods foot in 
 a doods hip etc.
  Sound: 7/10: Oh god its terrible, I didnt get hyped when i listiened to it like i do when its on 
 t. v. or an actual game.
  Commentary: 8/10 Oh god damn it they can be such idiots like when he says "I think a yellow card 
 is a little bit easy" when the player gets all ball. Generally good.
  Reffing: 6/10 Drive u insane, u get the ball on a slide tackle and u get a yellow also the offside 
 calls are idiotic not even close really either hes offside by 10 yards or onside by a 100 yards 
 the ref or the linesmen wont call anything when he's off by a mile and call offside when hes onside 
 by a mile..
  
  Overall 7.6
  PES 08 is a great game but sometimes yr teammates are absoulete idiots, like when they stand right 
 beside a guy putting him onside and not doing anything when the ball is 2 feet ahead of them. All 
 in all a solid game
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rammsteingamer
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 4, 2008 4:14 pm PT
Review:  PES 2008 is a good game. Unfortunately this years version is a little worse than last years, not 
 in all fields of course. In what comes to graphics, this game looks very good but as with almost 
 every part of the game, it as glitches. For example, sometimes when players collide, they get trough 
 each other like we have all seen in other games when players get trough walls and other things...
 
  The gameplay in this game is the best part of it, IT IS FUN, i have a great time playing this 
 game but even here, there are flaws. Lets use the example of goalkeepers, they now act more realistically 
 and they have brand new animations too, but sometimes the new balls physics (supposedly the ball 
 now acts its own way to exterior circumstances) make some plays just idiotic... ive seen goalkeepers 
 defending a penalty and most of the times when a player shoots the ball close to the ground, even 
 if the goalkeeper jumps toward the ball, it hits his legs or stomach and... GOOOOAAALLLL... Which 
 is really strange to see; not to mention more examples.... Konami said that PES now have a feature 
 called "team vision" which make the players opponents more intelligent and capable of previewing 
 our plays.... This indeed exists, but i think that it is not that good, because even in the harder 
 difficulty level, in a 15 minute game, the player can have a score of 9-1 against for example "TURKEY", 
 but against "ENGLAND" in the first 10 minutes of the in-game time a player can be losing 3-0, playing 
 the same hard way as they did before. But this is of course subjective, but sometimes it can bother 
 the player !
  Another thing to mention is the lack of licences in this game, FIFA as 10 times more than PES.
 
  The sound in this game is "normal" as in other PES games, although the tracks are more pop oriented....
 
  But still, PES 2008 is the best football experience a person can have in a PC !!! At least until 
 FIFA makes the step to the next generation in PC gaming, lets just hope the next instalment in 
 the series is a big jump from what we have seen here, otherwise PES is going to loose lots of fans.... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 3Dmajid2008
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 22, 2008 1:47 am PT
Review:  I thought that PES2008 is very better than last version of it. But I saw that its not differ much 
 than PES6. In this version only main menu is differ nice ! I don't know that KONAMI when wants 
 to make some teams good ! In all of versions KONAMI hadn't made some teams like : IRAN, ARABESTAN 
 and other ... . We can see in this version , some teams clothings are designed very nice. Game 
 Play not bad , But in the game , players move unnatural some times. Some of players face have changed 
 and designed worst like : 
  David Bechham and Owen , I think in last version they are better designed. If you want to goal 
 by Corners or Free Kick its very hard as in last version you can to make nice goal by these events. When 
 you want toThrow out" you see only three players of you'r team in near to pass them and don't 
 see you'r rival players in near and they are far. This event never desn't happen in a real football 
 match. Referee AI is very low !. Referee can't to judge very well some times like : Offsides or 
 fouls. Of course they have made referee 
  animation moves. Training section designed very nice in last version but in 2008 version they remove 
 some features and don't add new things. Only I accept that EDIT section is designed very well in 
 this version and its So better than last version. Totally I think that Konami couldn't increase 
 its cohorts and I am sure that Konami lost some its cohorts.
  Of course I accept that KONAMI in this version increase Graphic of PES and player faces seems very 
 natural and also team clothings. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tudyniuz
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 8, 2008 4:52 am PT
Review:  Pro Evolution Soccer 2008 is the latest Konami game in the well known series. This game is very 
 disappointing. As you start the game you will feel that the music isn't good and it doesn't feel 
 to suit the game's interface. Unfortunately this is not the only bad thing at the start of the game. The 
 menu is not as user friendly as it is at FIFA 08. A well known issue for this series is the lack 
 of licenses. Eventhough there have been made numerous add-ons ,the game just isn't as far as FIFA 
 08. A comparison to FIFA 08 is a fair comparison. These two games are the most important on the market 
 in this segment. The gameplay is very good and I may say they are a little better than at FIFA 08. But 
 this is basically the only thing better at this game. The music is horrible. The graphics look basically 
 the same, the sound is horrible and the commentators have very few lines and their comments just 
 don't fit with the game, they fall behind on many occasions. One thing that bothers the eye in this 
 game is the crowd. It looks awful. They look very 2D-like and it just doesn't suit with all other 
 3D elements of the game. Another downside of the game is that it's boring. There isn't as much to 
 do as in FIFA 08. For the first time in many years Pro Evolution Soccer is much below FIFA. Do not 
 buy this game if you have the last year version. It's basically the same game. I recommend it only 
 to PES hardcore fans, and even they might be disappointed. For the rest of us FIFA 08 will do the 
 job.
  
  My Score 6.3 
::::::

::::::
UserName: greatbigmouth
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 3, 2008 7:37 am PT
Review:  This is one of the better football games I have played since the early Fifa '99. The visuals are 
 stunning, especially the detail in player models and faces. Well-known players look fantastic. 
 KONAMI really did a good job regarding graphics. 
  
  The menus are too console-like and feels as if you're playing on an X360. Even the control configuration 
 menu gives you an example of an XBOX controller, rather than giving you the actual keys of a PC 
 keyboard, which makes it difficult to figure out which buttons are which. 
  
  Although the game is graphically superior to the EA's FIFA series, some animations look a little 
 choppy. It doesn't feel right when your character sprints his way down the mid-field. When sprinting 
 the player looks partially retarded, yet other animations such as keeper saves and shots look brilliant. 
 
  
  Gameplay is excellent. Rough tackles, player collisions, passing and headers look and feel very 
 realistic. Another feature where PES is ahead of FIFA. Unfortunately it lacks a few licenses, such 
 as the FA Premier League. All teams are still there, but it's not their official names or labels. 
 While it's not the end of the world, it's always more fun to play with the real teams, rather than 
 a fictional one.
  
  Overall, PES 2008 is a good soccer-sim with plenty of realistic features. If it wasn't for the 
 bad menus and the lack of licenses, I would rate it close to 100%. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chinpu
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 4, 2008 6:32 am PT
Review:  Pro Evolution Soccer 2008 shouldnt be considered as the next game of the series, we can 
 consider it a new game. Konami have completely changed the graphics of the game, and surely, now 
 the game looks pretty good, players with own face seems quite real, and the wears really seems 
 a piece of cloth. The animations are also pretty good except one, perhaps the most important, the 
 fast pace; I dont know what Konami have taken as a base, but when players run they seem 
 very pathetic. There are a lot of kinds of fast pace all over the world, and surely there is somebody 
 who runs like the pes2008 players, but I think Konami should have done several run styles or use 
 one a little bit more common. The collisions have been incremented, now you will always find the 
 referee in front of you ready to stop your player letting the rival defender get the ball. But 
 you still will see a forward striking the ball through a defenders body. Apart of the graphical 
 improvements, Konami have take out some interesting options of the pes6, like the home and away 
 game, the possibility to check your players statistics at the end of a match, the possibility 
 to play a match with a team composed of different teams, et cetera. The Master League remains mostly 
 the same; they are trying to improve the negotiation system but seem that they havent achieved 
 it yet. Obviously still persists the licenses problem, so dont expect to find real premier 
 league teams. Finally, I still miss the German league and some national teams like Egyptian, Moroccan 
 or Algerian National Teams. In spite of all these problems, you still will be able to enjoy a pes2008 
 match. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grall23
Rating: 3
Date: Feb 25, 2008 6:16 am PT
Review:  gameplay is whats most important in a soccer game, or at least very important. pes 2008 has smooth 
 control but lacks in graphics quality, referee intelligence and other aspects of the game. the 
 graphics are sharp, but they are not detailed. the music is bad, and doesnt fit into the game. 
 the referee is stupid, any tackle on the player which doesnt get you the ball gives you a foul. 
 only if you tackle a player successfully then you will not get a foul. i have never gotten an offside, 
 even if it is so blindingly obvious. the stupid referee really spoils the game. it is just too 
 easy even on hard. on the lowest diff level, you can run from midfield through the opponents and 
 score. the goalkeeper is alright, though he can be slow at times.
  if you want good gameplay, but willing to sacrifice eye candy, pes 2008 is for you. otherwise, 
 steer clear. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tonygrech
Rating: 1
Date: Feb 19, 2008 10:39 am PT
Review:  This game is a puss filled white head peice of crap from Konami.
  
  The people responsible for this garbage should feel ashamed of themselves. What they have done 
 with PES2008 is a complete and utter joke. They have released patch 1.2 and there is still a multitude 
 of online play issues that is scary.
  
  I paid top dollar for this game. I paid for a new improved version of a highly criticised pes06. 
 I was promised team vision, next generation graphics and an improved online experience. What I 
 got was a really horrible experience that has led me to right this review and launch a ji had on 
 Konami.
  
  This game is an insult to all the loyal pes fans who bought into the dream.
  I hope konami sinks to the bottom of the ocean and never resurfaces.
  
  You have lost me as 
 a loyal fan forever and deservedly so. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tieio
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jan 19, 2008 4:16 pm PT
Review:  Okay, so FIFA 08 wasn't great, but it was a lot better than this game. Football Manager 08 also 
 wasn't perfect, but again, much better than this one. The things it is? It is a cheap alternative, 
 it is an okay game if there is nothing else to play and it is slightly better than the last version 
 of this series.
  
  What it isn't? It isn't intuitive, it isn't creative and it isn't well thought out or planned.
 
  
  It is a shame in this age that games are created with such an emphasis on meeting a deadline rather 
 than making a good game, this is just another example in the endless line of games being brought 
 out that have potential but ultimately fail at what they are aimed to do.
  
  The people who write positive reviews for this game most likely have not played any of the other 
 titles available, and for my money, FIFA 08 is still the best this year, and that isn't saying 
 much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ad221288
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 14, 2008 12:01 am PT
Review:  This game was supposed to be the best football game ever. Well, it is a disappointment. One of 
 the major letdown of this game is the goalkeeping. you can easily score goals from long range as 
 the keeper will spill the easiest of balls into his net. Also, when dealing with a cross, he will 
 often push the ball into his own net. Free kicks are also too easy to net.
  
  Another problem is that some of the star players can get past 4 or 5 players too easily as good 
 as your defenders are.
  
  But there are some good points in the game. The commentary is very well done and sounds very realistic. 
 Graphics are good and player animation have been improved.
  
  Overall, I feel that they did not have enough time to finish the game. What they started is good 
 and if they fix it next year, it should be a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SodaPlex
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 2, 2008 5:50 pm PT
Review:  This game has changed the way soccer looks and feels. This game has really included all new functions 
 such as 'Track Records' and a longer gameplay for increased fun. The all-new 'Master League' popularity 
 for teams and players makes it really fun, not also that but each event that happens on the game 
 is spectacular. This game will be a huge impact and an instant classic for anyone who has followed 
 this saga since PSX and even those who have been after this wonderful game since SNES. A little 
 disadvantage is maybe the goalkeepers have terrible strenght... anyone over 80 in shot power will 
 sit down and defeat any goalkeeper. Even though... this game is a perfect 10/10... much better 
 than FIFA 08, that although the new functions, will never have this crisp and heavenly gameplay. 
 Old-school and newbies will have a crack at this game... what are you waiting for to play this 
 game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: el_pipe_rico
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 28, 2007 10:27 am PT
Review:  There is no way this game can be beaten!!! It's awesome!!! The graphics, the physics and the realistic 
 gameplay make it the World's best soccer game ever. It just doesn't improve in all those aspects, 
 it also can play. The computer can play against you and learn the basic game play that you usually 
 take on every match making it interesting and difficult at the same time. This game is as good 
 as it gets. 
  
  It's a 10 on my list, not like that EA copycat game that the only thing that has been doing for 
 the past few years is copying all the good stuff PES, or Winning Eleven, for Konami has been developing 
 for ever.
  
  My congrats to Konami on this release, the only bad taste, as always, is that you can't play with 
 some official teams, Premier League, but I don't really even care it's too good. I could play it 
 without official teams and it will still kick EA FIFA's ass!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pb12345
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 28, 2007 8:37 am PT
Review:  Having read the gamespot reviews before buying this game, I wasn't sure what to expect. As I loaded 
 the game up for the first time, I was a little surprised to see stylish menu, some kind of soundtrack 
 and playing the game, the graphics looked like they could be really good (I can't judge for myself 
 because my 128Mb NVidia & 3Ghz PC which run PES 6 perfectly is deemed too crap for PES 2008, so 
 I'm reduced to 640x480 res) . It looked like FIFA, it smelt like FIFA, I thought, no surely not, 
 scratching at the PES on the DVD case. Have I been tricked into buying FIFA 2008?
  
  I f you were expecting a good football game, this surely isn't it. Gone are the skills to practise 
 in the training mode. No more International Cup (essentially World Cup in previous edition) , it's 
 just a boring group stage+playoff now. The cup competitions pretty much suck. Only a handful of 
 stadiums are there. Hardly any licensed teams... hmmm. Still looking for a decent option file, 
 but they should emerge soon.
  
  If only the game play made up for these things. You can guess where I'm going. It doesn't. Although 
 the ref isn't quite as strict as PES 6, it still frustrating. Sliding tackles are a no-no (unless 
 you feel like reducing the number of players on your team) and you have to run what seems like 
 half the pitch alongside the opposition player to take the ball away from him. It's the only game 
 where passes seem to produce freekicks, which is well annoying. 
  
  The most notable change is the sheer speed of the game. It is much more fluid than PES 6 and resembles 
 frankly FIFA. Passing is random and you can pretty much forget doing crosses as they will hardly 
 ever go where you want them to. So the game is reduced to running with the ball. It's far to easy 
 to take a defender and score or get at least a corner than attempt intricate passing even with 
 the best teams. The goalie catches fewer balls and to me seems more realistic (rather than picking 
 out ball heading for the corner of the goal like in PES 6) , but fails to get anything on the ball 
 all to often when you hit it right at him. Own goals from the computer are far too common. Fortunately 
 the freekicks are slightly easier to take compared to previous version, but you'll be very lucky 
 to get a freekick in the first place.
  
  In all it's pretty disappointing. I'll be very sceptical before buying the next instalment of this 
 franchise. Unless you're a hardcore PES fan, I'd advise to avoid this altogether. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxmaullu
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 27, 2007 10:01 am PT
Review:  Konami is now really starting to treat the fans like stupid!
  Every year, less and less improvements.
  AND NOW!
  Lets see graphic better, but for some reason 
 you can't put max rez and max detail together!? (yes my sistem is more than fine)
  The music is just a randomly mix of rubbish.
  The detail in your squad when you play ML are much 
 less ( no matches played in carear or goals!?!)
  BUGS!
  When you play ML once every 2 or 3 matches, the game crash on desktop?
  Online mode don't let 
 me even start!!!!!!!!!!!!!
  No random matches mode.
  When you want ste-up a cup in CL style, it mixes national team and clubs, if u use random ( never 
 appened in previous versions)
  No wonder I bought this game, NEW, for  9 at play. com
  I just give it a 6.5, because is still fun to play
  I'll give konami one more chance. If the 
 next is rubbish, it'll be my last pes
  ps just unistalled this... thing and reinstallesd pes6 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brazil06
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 24, 2007 1:22 am PT
Review:  This year Konami have made a work of art which stands much better than FIFA 08 this year. Pro Evolution 
 Soccer 2008 adds a new emphasis to the overall graphics and AI of the game to allow for a much 
 better gaming expierience. The updates to the game allow for slicker gameplay and if you're using 
 the players and you are desperate you can use simulation (diving) this year Konami have done more 
 for the PC, Xbox 360 and PS3 versions of this game and it pays off as they have truly made a classic 
 PES game.
  
  However the opnly bad point is the un-liscensed team but it doesnt really take away anything from 
 the gameplay, as you can download an option file that has all the correct teams, people who complain 
 about this need to remember FIFA 08 is endorsed by FIFA who own football in general whereas Konami 
 are a japanese industry reknown for making great football games and the MGS series. The new system 
 of gameplay genuinely feels like proper football and you can play a brilliant fun game of derby 
 matches on exhibition mode, you could play some of the great rivalries and it will always be fun.
 
  
  In short this game delivers everything from graphics to gameplay and it plays much better than 
 FIFA 08. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TodoBond7
Rating: 3
Date: Dec 23, 2007 1:54 pm PT
Review:  PES has been living off its name for long enough! It's about time people open their eyes to the 
 fact that this game is just like the others before it with very slight changes.
  Besides, the real bugs of the game are still here! I consider myself a calm player that never goes 
 haywire with games but PES just gets on my nerves! This last one has the comical AI that is able 
 to clear the ball for a corner. Most of the time is either ridiculous or a superb OWN GOAL! This 
 is just one example! Another are the long passes that usually dont work perfectly. Either the 
 player you want to get the ball to looks like he isnt paying attention to the game or some times 
 the ball hits off some other player that just happens to be sleep walking in the middle of the 
 pitch!!
  Bumping into the referee is also hilarious! Miss a goal because of that!
  PES needs competition in the football simulation industry fast!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Megatuga
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 17, 2007 3:04 pm PT
Review:  I'll be as short and simple as I can. This is a great game. Let's see:
  
  - Great AND improved graphics.
  - Great AND improved animations.
  - Great gameplay.
  - Very 
 realistic.
  - Immersive and fun to play.
  - New stadiums!
  - New languages!
  - Easier editing (players) .
  - Some players are very realistic (C. Ronaldo) .
  - Yellows are 
 better aplicated (I apologize everyone that doesn't agree, but that just the way it is) .
  
  Now let me guess what are you saying. Why the 6.5/10 then??? 
  
  The fact is that this game 
 has a lot of potential, is just fun to play and all that stuff, but PES 2008 brings with it some 
 UNFORGIVABLE MISTAKES. I just got tired. It's a total letdown.
  
  And I didn't saw Gamespot reviews refering them. But I will say them:
  
  - The training mode. 
 PES 5 had the best training mode until now. In PES 6 they dismissed some training mode features. 
 In PES 2008 you don't even have those challenges for defending, dribbling, attacking, keeping possesion, 
 with scores and everything. You can just pick a team and do some free training, corners, FKs, penaltys 
 and shoot. Nothing more.
  
  - The presentation. The intro video is just REALLY GOOD. But that's just a small part. The menu 
 and the overall presentation seem a slight better, but it's just more confusing.
  
  - The PES SHOP. Where is the PES SHOP? How can I make my own team with my OWN players from the 
 start in Master League? I can't, I have to contract them!!! But how can I contract them if I offer 
 50k for Sergio Ramos and they don't accept it??? How, can someone explain me??? A TOTAL LETDOWN!!!!! 
 I was dreaming in making my own team with Dos Santos, Sidnei, Sergio Ramos, Aissati, Babel, Aguero, 
 C Ronaldo, Rooney, Anderson... just forget it!
  
  - The soundtrack has got some good musics, but it all seems busted and broken.
  
  - There are 
 only 20 SLOTS TO SAVE REPLAYS. I would like to ask KONAMI what's behind that big logic.
  
  In conclusion the gameplay and everything that happens in the pitch is incredibly well designed 
 and funny. But what about the rest?
  I recommend KONAMI that they OPEN THEIR EYES because it seems that they are sleeping! WAKE UP!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: simonsworld
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 16, 2007 5:31 pm PT
Review:  I been playing this game since international superstar soccer deluxe on the snes was releaed, and 
 always been for me the most fun and realistic football game out there. So to 2008, and this is 
 a great game still, little more arcadeish but it still just feels right, played the xbox 360 version, 
 and didnt like it much, its control pads i dont like, and the graphics on a 32 inch lcd samsung 
 look pretty poor, on my mates tv.
  
  i currently useing logitech pads ps2 clones and it plays and feels fantastic, it grows on you this 
 game. Only thing i dislike this year, is lack of new content, everyone including me was hopeing 
 for a massive jump, well it not here yet, only 15 staidums, and lack of offical kit sponsers etc, 
 though ya get 4/6 pair of adidas boots which cool, but no reebok and no adidas for team shirts, 
 can someone tell me why? why change? if your intent is to grow, as a company and franchise and stay 
 ahead of fifa, one those japannese guys who made the game said, sorry and next year we see a massive 
 improvement, so fingers crossed at least he honest about it.
  
  i guess thing is this game has a more cult following, my 8 year old nephew plays fifa, i asked 
 him why one time, he said cos its easyier than pro evo to play he knows i like pro evo, i been 
 trying to convert him over for like 3 years already so anyway nuff said, you want the best version 
 of this game, over all the formats its this one for the pc, and no i only have mid range system, 
 and i never get lag/freeze etc unlike the ps3/xbox 360 users :) Old game, fresh feel to it, i fully 
 recommend it still to anyone who new to this game, and old players for a true football experience. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jiborat
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 10, 2007 8:47 pm PT
Review:  the preview was nice, there were a lot of speculation that this game would top fifa 08 because 
 of new A. I, graphics etc. But when it came out it was a total let down. the graphics was ok, the 
 commentators did not improve from last year and club name still not like fifa. the gameplay was 
 not that good because it lags at times and there are a lot of bugs. also during penalty it is hard 
 to save the shot for the camera angle sucks.
  all in all pes 2008 for me is 5/10. graphics is 6/10 sound 4/10 gameplay is 5/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: diablo_2kf
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 30, 2007 11:09 am PT
Review:  Well i was a big fan of PES/WE series for long time now and was always thankful for Konami to make 
 a game like this... but now i want to tell them : Bravo ! You lost to FIFA 08 big time... and from 
 the both the old and the next GEN Fifa. 
  
  Gameplay : 7/10
  
  Ok its the same thing from the last year but its too easy. I managed to stomp on every team with 
 5-0 in the same way all the time. There are a lot of cool moves but really not too shiny. The A. I 
 is very stupid and boring to play against.
  
  Music and Sound : 2/10
  
  I can say its really bad... and i mean it.
  
  Graphic : 6/10
  
  Ok some players look good 
 but everything else is not good at all. Sometimes its very nice sometimes its not at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AssAsIgN
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 26, 2007 3:16 pm PT
Review:  they are suppose to make the game to be more realistic, instead, othey are making it harder to 
 control, selection menus are badly located and yea it looks great but not effective and efficient. 
 Prevous version is much better in allocating tghe menus and gameplay as well. In addition, you 
 need a really good computer to play this game. Even I'm using intel core duo 1.6ghz, 2gb ram, and 
 nvidia 8400 gs and still experiencing super lag using 640x480 to the highest resolution and different 
 quality as well. Perhaps this game should not be released on PC, ever! since it doesnt give that 
 much fun. 
  Overall the game is very disappointing 
::::::

::::::
UserName: True_Gamer_
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 22, 2007 9:28 am PT
Review:  While PES2008 may have its share of shortcommings visit www. evo-web. co. uk register on the forums 
 and you may find something very interesting............
  This version is the best this year and for years to come because the gameplay can be slowed down 
 with mods LODmixer makes it look 10 times better than consoles and kitservers will add hundreds 
 of 
  Console users have to break the law by installing a modchip to enjoy 20% of the above.........
 
  Anyway I recoomend this game for anyone that has a 7600GS or above...
  I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I E N D I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gods_Son23
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 31, 2008 9:19 pm PT
Review:  First of all I'll just say my background in these games. I have been playing the series since ISS 
 Pro 98. I became addicted straight away and have loved the series ever since and have bought each 
 version. I consider myself a good player, not great but good and look forward to each new version 
 of the ISS/PES series each year.
  
  I play it with a 1 gig ram, ATI Radeon 9200 Video Card, P4 3ghz, PC and a PS2 controller.
  
 
  
  On the differences from PES6
  PROS
  *Can add your own face to make your own player in edit mode.
  *More Teams/Clubs.
  *New AI Team 
 Vision - I haven't noticed anything vastly different about this but it is harder to get around 
 defenders now and I haven't scored 2 goals similar in one game yet.
  *Graphics especially faces have improved a lot.
  *More options in tactics like choosing who goes 
 forward at set pieces and more control of wall.
  *Track record, which keeps all your stats from all your games. It's great but something that should 
 have been in versions ago.
  *Better menus and presentation
  
  CONS
  *Camera losses ball sometimes when you shoot. If you don't have wide monitor
  *Less stadiums.
 
  *Commentary didn't work at first. I had to change Audio configuration. I have never had to that 
 before for any game.
  *Controls and manual in X-Box layout. Why change to X-Box when last ones have been the good old 
 PS controller.
  *No Crowd. I'm playing on low settings but I'm not sure why there is no crowd?
  * There seems 
 to be less cut scenes and when a player gets a card the ref sorts of just pulls the card out and 
 doesn't 'put it in the players face' as he should and has in previous versions.
  
  *Goalkeepers much worse. You will score some goals you wouldn't have thought were possible.
  
 
  Gameplay
  The main problem I felt in PES6 was that a lot of the time the games would be so outweighed. The 
 possession wasn't always largely in your favour but the shots were normally way outnumbered in 
 your benefit. I have had many games on PES6 (on the hardest level) even with poorer teams where 
 I may have had 10-15 shots and the Com team has 0-1 or 2. This has been improved. Games do feel 
 a bit more balanced. 
  
  
  Goalkeepers 
  In the past games if you shot and it hit the keepers it pretty much never went in and always cleared 
 in front of the keeper. Now the ball sometimes hits them and goes in which I think is more realistic. 
 However they constantly miss crosses they should get which costs goals and losses. And they also 
 seem to punch far too often instead of catching the ball with leads to goals and losses. If you 
 hold R2/Curl Shot when you shoot also the keepers tend to really struggle with it and I have scored 
 some goals that I really shouldn't have and I can see this is a way you could sort of cheat and 
 win.
  5/10
  
  Passing
  Passing is pretty much same as other games however sometimes when you pass it will just bounce 
 off the player you passed it to or won't go near them. Doesn't happen often but happens.
  8/10
  
  Dribbling 
  Needs work . Too easy to dribble a lot and to hard for the opposition 
 to get the ball sometimes.
  7/10
  
  Defending
  Apart from the goalkeeper issue sometimes it is far to hard to get the ball off the opposition. 
 Seems harder than the previous versions. And sometimes when crosses come in from the opposing team 
 you don't get given the right player which can lead to trouble but in all in all its not bad.
 
  8/10
  
  Shooting/Crossing
  This is also different. The power bar fills up slower which can make free kicks easier but this 
 will take you a while to get used to if you have played previous versions as you will shoot/cross 
 to low and soft at the start. I do like it though so far. Probably the best of the series.
  9/10
  
  Sound
  Commentators are different for the first time in many versions. But what they 
 say so far seem a small improvement but nothing great and FIFA still wins in the commentary field. 
 
  
  Sound is pretty much the same as previous versions but you hear the sound effects of the crunching 
 tackles and the on field sound effects more which is good. I think it could be better and create 
 a better atmosphere but its an improvement
  
  7/10
  
  Presentation/Visuals
  Graphics have improved and I'm sure on higher end PCs than mine the game would look great and maybe 
 have crowds. Again this could be my PC but there are still no linesman present while you are actually 
 playing. Would this really be hard to put into a game?
  
  While still not 10/10 the menus and layout also look better and make the game look better.
  
 
  8/10
  
  Online Play
  I have tried a few games and suffereed bad lag. From reports having issues.
  5/10
  
  Overall
 
  I'd like to say that its good Konami are still making games that can be played on lower systems. 
 The new games I can play these days with my system are quite limited. I was worried PES 2008 wouldn't 
 run because it has had a graphics' update but credit to Konami.
  
  If you like the PES series I think it's a worthy update especially if you have a good graphics 
 card to enjoy the full graphics of PES2008. Some of the cons are disappointing as sometimes with 
 PES its like 2 steps forward and 1 step back but it does play differently than PES6 and is still 
 definitely more realistic and enjoyable than the other major soccer game on the market.
  
  However some of the flaws are disappointing. Things that didn't need changing get changed and make 
 the game worse. If Konami actually listened to there fans on what needed changing and what didn't 
 they would make much better updates of the game.
  
  They have released a patch but it doesn't fix the gameplay issues. I don't think they will but 
 really they should.
  
  To summarise not an essential update from PES6 or even PES5 or PES4, unless you want the graphics 
 update. But it is different and if you're a fan of PES its worth a try. If you have never played 
 PES before then get it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: macmert
Rating: 10
Date: May 1, 2008 12:25 am PT
Review:  The football loving community knows that PES is the game!!!
  
  The PES series are always rival with EA's Fifa but the real deal is Fifa could and would never 
 match the playibility or the realism of PES...
  
  If you are after the great football experience you shall switch to PES right away, I met this game 
 back in 99 on PS1 and terrific gameplay just stunned me... The through pass was not used in Fifa 
 back then but in PES it was executed perfectly... Well it was near perfect but hey, who is perfect 
 anyway...
  
  Well back to game... The game does not have many licenced clubs or stadiums but you can edit it 
 instantly so this is not really an issue in my opinion since seeing Arsenal as North London wont 
 bother me, and you can change it... 
  
  The menus are a little proper now... You have many match options like exibition league etc... But 
 the real deal is the master league where you can pick a club and make transfers to your team train 
 them or have new young players to develop etc...
  
  And here comes the real deal... The match... The game engine is awesome, you can just sit back 
 and watch it like a real football game on TV. The passing system is excellent you dont need to 
 fill up any bars or anything to make short pass, but on long passes you need to fill a bar where 
 your skill and the footballers skill is checked, you can make perfect long passes like Ronaldinho 
 or Christiano Ronaldo with practice... shooting is really different and hard compared to Fifa you 
 cant score many goals shooting from distance...
  
  The defence part is copied perfectly from real life cause if you try to chase the guy with the 
 ball you cant even touch the ball and concede many goals instead you need to cover zones and man 
 mark accordingly, cover passing angles and options to intercept the ball...
  
  The fun just triples when you play multiplayer but I have to tell you beforehand that I never played 
 on net or something cause it is not fun, the real fun is if you play it with friends on the same 
 PC, especially 4 players playing on the same team is an awesome experience!!!
  
  So if you claim that you know how to play football and you play Fifa, you are doing something terribly 
 wrong :D But if you dont know the football fundamentals and want to play a football game play Fifa 
 series... But if you are a real football fan and know how to play football test your skills on 
 PES 08 :)
  
  
  PS: Ok I needed to edit my review for some people out there who dont even know how to play football... 
 or who doesnt even play a decent pass to another player and thinks this game sucks!! I am telling 
 you they dont know anything!!! and some morons compare this awesome game with that piece of crap 
 so called the best football game Fifa... let me tell you something, F*CK FIFA!!! I played FIFA 
 since the game was first produced, it was easy then, it is way way easy now, FIFA looks better??? 
 well F*CK THE LOOKS THEN!!! this is a football game ladies and gentlemen not some f*cking sims 
 add on!! and some guy claimed that the referies were spoiling the game, well it is obvious that 
 he doesnt know how to play football, the referee will always spoil the football games, he will 
 not be fair, he will not call for fouls and even call for stupid offside positions! Well you need 
 to beat the referee too!! Do not talk like a 3rd class stupid manager that blames the referee for 
 losing games, be a man!!! 
  
  I would like to shout and scream more but anyway, from now on I will consider the reviews of Europian 
 players, since US doesnt even know how to play football... and yes it is not soccer it is football!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zachtyler21
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jan 5, 2008 12:12 pm PT
Review:  Hey, I love the PES franchise, but once you turn the difficulty on 2008 up to the top player level, 
 you will be pulling your hair out. The updated controls SUCK. Rather than actually becoming more 
 difficult, the game simply dumbs down your players, speeds up EVERY opponent, makes every one of 
 your shots a joke, passes where you didn't want to pass, sends every single deflection, no matter 
 what, straight to an opponent, prevents your players from keeping possession, ensures that the 
 COM can't lose possession, lets the COM knock your players flying to the ground with no whistle, 
 cards your players for an accidental trip, turns your best keeper into a drooling retard without 
 his glasses, makes a wide open shot on goal (taken with almost full power) dribble forward so slowly 
 that someone always has time to intercept it, lets the COM guys spin a 180 from 30m out and bury 
 a rocket in the top corner, makes your fastest guy with a direct route to a through pass hesitate 
 until a slower COM opponent runs past them, and my personal favorite, sends a north-south cross 
 pass exactly 180 degrees from the direction you are holding the thumb stick. Its a joke to see 
 your man run up on a pass, and as his foot starts to descend, he spins right around and boots it 
 into the stands. If this is how Konami thinks you add to the difficulty level, they are nuts. PES6 
 had its flaws, but it was far more satisfying that this pile of crap. At least I knew what was 
 going to happen when I pushed a certain button. And in case you think I'm just bad at the game, 
 I played PES6 at the highest difficulty level all the time, and won by an average score of 5-1, 
 with a so-so team against Barca, ManU, Real Madrid, Chelsea, etc. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wildamnesia
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 13, 2007 9:16 pm PT
Review:  I have to admit, I haven't been loyal to Pro Evolution Soccer. I've always bought FIFA but this 
 year I decided to switch teams. And I'm glad I did.
  
  PES is simply more fun and more accessible then FIFA. This year the game engine has been overhauled 
 and PES now looks fantastic. Notable players look exactly like their flesh and blood counterparts; 
 the animations are fluid and natural; the grounds are expansive with detailed 3D crowds and the 
 TV style presentation is a joy to behold. 
  
  As a football sim it's as close to the real game as current technology will allow.
  
  However, 
 there are issues that prevent PES 2008 from achieving greatness this year:
  
  No official licences (as always) and a limited amount of customisable options to rectify this issue 
 yourself.
  
  Too clean - your players don't get dirty unlike FIFA. Shorts remain Persel white throughout each 
 game.
  
  Only 15 stadiums compared to FIFA's 30+
  
  Very poor music and no option to insert your own.
  
  Overall, it's a great game and beats FIFA 
 08 (on the PC) hands down.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamespotmann
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 12, 2007 7:17 am PT
Review:  i think just have a little different with WE 2007 between PES 2008 , there something i dont like 
 really dont like is a....... name of team , kits away and home 
  example chelsea a. k. a London FC and kits very bad... not like a FIFA08
  i wonder why Konami do 
 something like that? ... i hope in the future may Konami do something right for FANS.
  For difficulty i think WE2007 is hard but when i try play PES 2008 with mode Pro or Top Player 
 i feel so easy to win for the 1st time i play PES2008 i win 3-0 ( Chelsea vs Arsenal ) and once 
 again win 4-0 ( Chelsea vs MU ) till now. hope maybe another patch will release from Konami.
  However i happy with PES 2008 and thank for PES2008 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkdesires
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 11, 2007 7:03 am PT
Review:  Graphics:
  
  AT LAST, we see something new in the konami praised football franchise. This year the game has 
 a much better presentation in next gen consoles and PC, the graphics are great with superb animations, 
 every aspect in the graphics look way better, the PES6 for xbox360 was a dissapointment cause of 
 the graphics engine, but this year konami has made the PES series come back to glory with new graphics 
 engine not only on xb0x 360 but also on the other systems that can manage it.
  Unfortunetly there are some drop in the frame rate.
  9.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  This is why everyone 
 that loves football loves Pro Evolution Soccer, there is no game that has a gameplay like Pro Evolution 
 soccer. In previous installements the gameplay was already awesome, in PES 2008 it is the same 
 gameplay with some cool aditions to players movement etc. When your playing PES 2008 you really 
 feel the pressure of a football game, its very intense and a lot of fun and addictive, simply the 
 best gameplay a football game can have with nothing bad that can be said about it. Just perfect.
 
  10.
  
  Sound:
  
  Decent commentaries but repetitive, PES fans are already used to this. The in game sound and crowd 
 noise its pretty good, but the soundtracks from menus and so go from cool to horrible. PES fans 
 are already expecting this and they know exactly what to expect from a new PES game in terms of 
 sound, nothing special but some cool things.
  7.
  
  Value:
  
  Pro Evolution Soccer 2008 will last until Pro Evolution Soccer 2009 comes out, the gameplay its 
 so addictive that even if you manage to finish all the available competitions (there are lots of 
 competitions in the game) you will not stop playing it, you will replay it over and over again 
 with this team and another. If you have someone to play with or if you play online, the game will 
 last forever.
  10.
  
  Overall:
  
  PES 2008 its not another PES game, PES 2008 looks like a fresh game for PES series fans, it has 
 many improvements and its a really worth playing and owning for fans and for everyone even if you 
 have other PES games, cause PES 2008 its not like PES 5 to PES 6.
  PES 2008 its a new fresh nice looking game with the same great gameplay and still inproved. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nicklech16
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 11, 2007 4:13 am PT
Review:  Except for the graphics PES hasn't really improved since the last installment in the series. Still 
 the lacks it has are minor and the game still delivers a realistic and enjoyable soccer-simulation.
 
  
  The things which always highlighted Pro Evolution Soccer were the animations of the players, the 
 AI of your opponents and teammates and the astonishing realistic course of the game. All of this 
 still remains on a high level in PES 2008. The player animations are partially even improved and 
 at least in offense the AI reacts more variable. Moreover the game gets faster due to more comprehensible 
 faults in game developing. On top of that the game now offers great graphics especially when it 
 comes to the players which look really sharp and are fantastically animated.
  
  The bugs PES has aren't really troublesome but still affect the overall impression negatively. 
 For example long passes are way too fast so that players can't even control them. Moreover the 
 defense doesn't react very clever. For instance it's no problem to run through the penalty area 
 again and again waiting for your chance to score without being attacked appropriately. Of course 
 you need a good player for this but here's the next problem: some players are simply way too strong. 
 With Ronaldinho, Messi or C. Ronaldo it's nearly no problem to run past the whole pitch. It's also 
 a pity that KONAMI still doesn't convert the console-versions of the game to the PC.
  
  Nevertheless it's real fun to play the new Pro Evolution Soccer because it's just a great simulation 
 which brings soccer on your PC like no other game out there! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MoneyUSA
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 9, 2007 3:45 pm PT
Review:  winning eleven 2008 best soccer game on the planet yet ,,, graphic jumps hundred steps ahead , 
 game play still almost the same , this is the beauty of winning eleven ,, licences for teams is 
 not important , i will wait for unofficial patch like always in few weeks by my fanatic winnig 
 eleven friends ,,, fifa 2008 is doing great job this year but , it looks better than fifa 2007 
 ,, but haaaaayyy winning eleven owns !!!,,, always playing in highest diffeculity ,, top player 
 , u have to defence and attack , play with tactic and play with on touch 
::::::

::::::
UserName: morzedecoder
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 9, 2007 10:37 am PT
Review:  Pros:
  -Good AI. CPU seems to change its tactics according to the run of play, and so should you.
  -Graphics. 
 Arguably the best-looking and realistic-looking football game to date.
  -Physics. Players dribble/run/fall like real people. There is a sense that you control real footballers, 
 not rag dolls. Ball control is also not perfect, which adds to realism.
  -It is easier to attack and score goals than in previous versions. 
  
  Cons:
  -Frustrating 
 defense system. On hardest difficulty you seem to be handicapped, because CPU wins most of individual 
 duels. It is very easy to lose the ball and rather hard to recover it. Your players don't seem 
 to tackle as well as CPU players do (even if they have better stats) .
  -Tactics. While the list of tactics is short to begin with, they don't seem to work as you might 
 expect. Also there's no options for defensive tactics (which was fine for previous games, but not 
 for this one) .
  -Some minor issues. Auto-save option is a pain. 
  
  Verdict:
  After first hours of playing I was under impression that this is the best football simulation ever 
 made, but in a few days frustration settled in. While in last three versions of PES it was easy 
 to defend but hard to score, this version does he opposite by letting you score more goals but 
 limiting your defensive capabilities. Whether its a good thing or a bad thing is a matter of personal 
 preference. I personally would prefer a game with attack system of this version but with defense 
 system of PES 5 or 6. Overall a good game, but could have been better.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: LauLS
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 9, 2007 12:00 am PT
Review:  The game play of this pro evo soccer 08 really change a lot compare to pro evo 3, 4, 5. The game 
 play and the graphic in pro evo 3, 4, 5 are almost similar. This makes the series boring, unattractive 
 and unaddictive. But does this new pro evo soccer 08 worth buying? Is changing of the game play 
 good enough compare to pro evo 3, 4, 5? Is this better than FIFA 2008?
  
  For me, the answer is YES. (Except for the FIFA 2008 question, I cant answer it because I did 
 not play the game yet. : D ) The most important reason is this game does not feel as same as playing 
 its predecessors. So, I have to train myself in every angle of the field to learn how to play again, 
 which means I have start all over again to adapt the new game play in order to master the game. 
 Scoring is fun again! Besides that, the commentator is more talkative which make the atmosphere 
 of the game, more enjoying because it highlights the situation of I feel while playing especially 
 playing with my friends. The game is also more realistic, I can ran toward the referee and I can 
 feel that my player collides with the referee. The goalkeepers also did not perform well as super 
 goalkeeper as last time. What I mean is the goalkeepers now, make mistake, sometimes silly mistakes 
 which make the game more realistic but at some point, it is intimidating, because I cannot depend 
 on my keeper when defending.
  The low point of this game is it gets really easy after 10 or more hours, it gets really easy to 
 score goals if you have fast players. I can press R1 and ran from the middle of the field to the 
 goalkeeper using a player who is fast, without being chase down by any defenders. You can always 
 ask me: why I dont use players who are slow, or play a passing strategy. But when playing with 
 your friends, you have to show no mercy to your friends or they will kick your butt. :D
  
  Overall, this game improve a lot, but still have minor problems (for me only) :D . Enjoy the 
 game!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: olli18
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 8, 2007 2:39 am PT
Review:  That was always the most important titel in my calendar. I alwas waited for months, days then hours. 
 And this waiting was so exciting and fantastic. In this year i waited still stronger. I expected 
 the best soccer game ever. But the game is unfortunately the biggest disappoint. Gamplay is not 
 so great. The game is too buggy. Golkeepers are so weak. You can easy shoot goal from corner. Supposedly 
 this game is relesed too early. I think so beacause FIFA was ready in 3 October and KONAMI couldn't 
 wait much longer. I must say that online play ist very bad. Why ist this only conversion from X360?? 
 Where are Servers and LOBBYS ?? And why is the online game so laggy?? I can't answer this questions. 
 My game score for this Pro Evo series was always higer then 9.0. But now i can't give this game 
 even 8.0. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nano17
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 4, 2007 2:53 pm PT
Review:  Well, first off: I am from argentina, excuse my english :P
  
  I play a lot of Winning Eleven (since.. Winning eleven 3, I think...) and I've played every Pro 
 Evolution Soccer but PES 2008 is amazing! Its realistic moves and realistic AI make PES 2008 the 
 BEST soccer simulator. The new AI is the best in series, bad players are REALLY bad, not like in 
 FIFA, were you can make 100 goals in a single match with the goalkeeper. Nice graphics (not THE 
 best, but nice)
  Goal celebration's, edit mode, everything! New Licensed teams (like River Plate :P)
  The sound 
 and comments can be very Boring.... but THE GAME is EXCELENT.
  
  The Good: Grapichs, GAMEPLAY, edit mode, MASTER LEAGUE!!! (negociations, player's fame, fan-taken 
 photos XD) .
  
  The Bad: Sound and Comments. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nikhilsethi25
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 3, 2007 9:55 am PT
Review:  PES 08 has everything to make it a excellent football game
  heres why
  
  great graphics: its running on high at 1024x768 and the graphics are really good
  
  gameplay 
 back to form: the dribbling has been brought back o its best with great maneuverability although 
 at times beating defenders seems too easy but overall its pretty balanced. The keepers are much 
 better they make better saves but are still beatable if you do things right. The weakest point 
 is your own defence which can get be beaten too easily if dont get your tackles in perfect and 
 the tackles themselves at times feel awkward they way the defenders make them. Its really frustrating 
 when your defender makes a takle on his own accord and gets booked for and its even worse when 
 they do in the penalty box (this has cost me a few penalties) .
  
  skill moves: the inclusion of moves like diving and shirt pulling make the gameplay even more interesting 
 i hant tried them myself ut it was nice to see kaka get booked for a dive in the penalty area.
 
  
  the training mode was disappointing i miss the controls part where you could learn the tricks it 
 would have been really nice to practice the new moves
  
  On a final note i would say that konami has done a very good job this time around they have still 
 left enough area to improve upon in the future versions but for now the game is excellent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chimera1984
Rating: 4
Date: Oct 31, 2007 9:48 am PT
Review:  Other than it looking pretty and sounding great this rendtion of virtua striker (or the next in 
 the series) has absolutely nothing going for it. Go back and play PES6.
  
  Yes the graphics are pretty good and the sounds are damn nice to, but what does this game actually 
 offer you, nothing more than PES6, the modes are exactly same, the menu is a little different, 
 and the strategy system has been improved as well.
  
  But as for playing the game, dribbling is awful, it lags when you press buttons on your controller 
 (and i have the recommended microsoft common controller) . The long balls are awful, they never 
 go where you want them, and passes are always nearly intercepted when they go near another player.
 
  
  And now the keepers - 9 times out of 10 they just cant catch the ball which leads to you conceding 
 a goal. Or the keeper dives completely out the way on 1 on 1's.
  
  This games just glorified virtua striker, download the demo before you buy it otherwise you might 
 be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kokyaw
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 30, 2007 9:18 pm PT
Review:  I love this game and I played almost all PES series for about 7 years now!! I played almost all 
 the PES series starting from those for play station 1. People are saying FIFA08 is better. NO WAY!!! 
 Trust me, I've tried FIFA08 as well. Of course, if you want to score EASILY, you should stick with 
 FIFA. PES is hard but very rewarding and you feel as if you're scoring for real!! So if you haven't 
 tried and if you love FOOTBALL (I mean real football, not american football) , you should! In PES08, 
 the graphics gets a lot better than the PES07. The AI's got so much better!!! TRY IT NOW. You will 
 love it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mugupo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 30, 2007 8:46 pm PT
Review:  PES 08 no doubt Konami spend the most time of improvement the game nearly every level unlike its 
 fifa counterpart of pc that didn't change nearly anything. Biggest change of pes 08 than 07 is 
 the graphic and menu design, and add a alot of selection, a lot of good improvement like the commentary. 
 Gameplay is more realistic as well. The biggest cons of this game perhaps is their license, especially 
 in the english prime league nearly everyteam don't had the right name or slogan, but aleast konami 
 still got the player name of the team that's alot more important i think. Nearly everyway when 
 i compare this to fifa 08 (i got both in pc, i play demo of them as well) Pes win by a miles ! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkfield
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 29, 2007 1:32 pm PT
Review:  Worth all the waits, this time FIFA is out for good. Even though there is lots of improvement graphic-wise, 
 still it's not a nextgen game, however, gameplay-wise it's double the fun. There is lots of new 
 animations and few more cool moves added to the gameplay, Shots are got better, dribbling is cool 
 but it's too much especially is you play with a team that there's Ronaldinho and/or Chris Ronaldo 
 and Messi and the list goes on. At some points it's more close to arcade rather than simulation. 
 Well of course I'm not against it but I'd like to play it realistic as possible. But it's more 
 competitive and exciting especially when you play the master league with that infamous squad of 
 nuts, believe me they ruined my life. The referee got better, more serious and will not let a committed 
 crime go unpunished. There's also a combo move available for diving which almost all the time referee 
 wont buy that, and most of the time you'll be booked for it. I for one could only fool him two 
 times, guess I need more trainings on this matter and in addition when you're on defense you can 
 pull the opponent's shirt. Anyway, In previous version there was actually more referees, but this 
 time I could only find the same referee calling every match.
  
  Visual improvements are good, but actually I never expected the laziest team of Konami ever spend 
 time on it. I have to give the some credits this time. :D They actually made some improvements 
 but still not eye catching enough though. Scoring goals are a bit easier this time so you better 
 not loose control over your defense line, but remember the best defense is a good offense. Tactics 
 are a little simpler too so you wont spending a lot on it this time. The Master League is the section 
 which actually improved a lot but there's still some holes in negotiation section, if you're a 
 PESMania you know what I mean. It's now more difficult than before and challenging. Again especially 
 when you start the game with default ML players. EDIT Mode has returned again which is very cool, 
 it wasn't in Xbox 360 version which turned my life into a living nightmare because not only I couldn't 
 create myself and make the dream come true but also I (we, all of us, Xbots) couldn't make any 
 transfer for club teams or register new players to national teams. This time we can do all those 
 things and also scan a picture for the created/edited player's face, not looks so good but it's 
 better than nothing, especially if you're like me and don't go through editing data files.
  
  On the whole I see lots of new things also some missing parts. I highly recommend this game 
 to all fellow Football lovers (soccer I mean of course) and I guarandamntee (McMahon style) you'll 
 enjoy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: migueldev
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 28, 2007 5:09 pm PT
Review:  First things first. FIFA for the pc is the biggest insult that a game publisher could make for 
 soccer sims fans. The graphs are horribel and ther is no customization what so ever, and gameplay 
 is basically the same as last year's.
  Now to pro evolution soccer:
  It is pes. If you are a pes player you will love it, because is whitout doubt the best installment 
 to date. But that's nothing to be surprised when it comes to team Konami. Every year it just plays 
 better. Superb new animations and finnally an upgrade on the visuals. It hjust plays and looks 
 beautifull. One thing i don't like though. The lack of extras. There is n unlockable content in 
 this version. Well since i'm not a big fan of long reviews i just put all that i said in a phrase:
 
  PES is undoubtedly the king of all sims !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: otakar7
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 28, 2007 11:06 am PT
Review:  Firstly my credentials, I own and have played every Pro game, going onto pc at Pro 3. I had played 
 Fifa but lost faith in them after Fifa99 when all I needed was my keeper to score goals (even on 
 so called hard) .
  
  I'll keep this short as I have not bothered getting into Pro2008. why? The graphics.
  
  Do 
 not believe the system spec. s, yes the game will run on lower end computers, but and here is the 
 really important detail.
  
  You will not get a good taste of graphics unless you have recommended specs. ie 3000 processor 6600 
 nvidia or equivalent, and at least 1gig of ram. my son has a 2800 processor 1950 pro ATI and 1 
 gig, and can only run game in medium, (which is similar to high graphics in Pes6 but not as rich 
 looking.)
  My computer is 2400 processor, 5900fx, 1 gig. on Pes2008 runs fine in low though i have a 19 flt 
 screen monitor, the animation is spot on but the graphics are awfull, Cartoon-ish. (plays slow 
 in medium) on the Pes6 I can play high graphics setting which is way better than what i get on 
 Pes2008. So until i upgrade to 3000+ processor 7900 nvidia, and 2gig of ram I'll not be looking 
 again at Pes2008.
  
  I recommend Pes6 if you have a similar spec to me, or you can chance it if you have the recommended 
 specs.
  
  Licences mean nothing, I play Pes cos i want game simulation, the graphics are a bonus, but it 
 seems the PES designers are upping the anti, which is good, but I have been left behind.
  
  on a personnel note they should have called it Pes7... Pes2008 stinks of fifaish competing. Pes 
 has always been better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hamada85
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 28, 2007 8:46 am PT
Review:  well the game playing is fine, the graphics finally developed.
  but give me a break it is a copy of pro evolution soccer 6 or winning eleven pro evolution soccer 
 2007 {wich are identical} . the same leagues ( english - italian - spanish - french - dutch ) the 
 german league not included just bayern munich like the previous and LA galaxy new Beckham's american 
 team not included in the other league teams! but you will find PES united and Rangers ... so famous 
 teams ha, the same silly master league there is no elegant manager or career mode.
  also there is no long replay.
  unfair players powers like fernando torres his speed is 81 cristiano 
 ronaldo is 85 and so on (check by your self Nani, Messi, Abidal, etc..) .
  the customs in the english league like in winning eleven 9 no sponsors no manufacturer logo ( adidas 
 or nike .. etc ) and ofcourse wrong colors except 2 or three teams don't worry man utd, liverpool 
 and chelsea are not one of them !!!!! the german national team has the same wrong names like the 
 2 previous versions.
  but they add finally soundtrcks.
  i'm not offensive, i'm a winning eleven fan since ps one. but i'm so disappointed in this version 
 so please i repeat the game playing is fine and there is graphic enhancement ......... please fix 
 the errors) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jono0
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 28, 2007 8:35 am PT
Review:  Pro Evolution Soccer (Also Known As: Winning Eleven) is a fantastic soccer game, with great new 
 features and graphics which close the gap it had with FIFA.
  
  The first thing you will notice when playing this game, is the great graphic improvements. The 
 graphics look really good, compared to early PES games.
  Another thing that the developers at konami did, was making an awesome feature which makes this 
 game a lot more unique then FIFA. its called TeamVision.
  With this feature, the AI actually tries to learn how do you play the game. The AI will study all 
 of your moves, and try to find those small breakthroughs, in your defense or offense, making you 
 change your tactics again and again.
  For example, if you pass a lot in a game, the AI will try to see that coming, and will try to either 
 stop you from passing, or steal the ball when you are trying to make a pass.
  
  Now, I'm not a big PES fan, in fact, I'm more of a FIFA fan boy, well, that is until I played this 
 game.
  
  If you are a soccer fan, you will want to play this game. even if you are not, give it a try, it 
 wont hurt ;)
  
  Thanks for reading. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: russian_takeout
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 1, 2007 12:18 pm PT
Review:  normaly i wont review any games.... not in this case.
  i have been playing fifa, and fifa only for many years... thought there is nothing close to fifa 
 experience. well, i was wrong big time. FIFA is already in the closet, and will never buy enother 
 one until they learn how to make a soccer game. i saw a few clips of winning eleven 2008 and got 
 hooked. when i played first game, i almost fell from the chair... amazing experience. i play soccer 
 myself, and you really feal involved in the game.
  
  first of all the ball is on its own. its never atached to player's foot, it is a chalenge to control 
 the ball in a trafic. makes a big difference from what angle and speed you shoot. in FIFA its always 
 the same... no difference between the worst and the best player... the ball always stack to player's 
 foot... borrrring.
  
  second - from what i saw, many players have their own style of play. how they run and move... not 
 sure:) maybe its just me. for sure player's phisics make a diffenence. for axample, with taller 
 players easier to head the ball, defenders are stronger on takles and etc.
  
  third - the game is really challenging. i still didn't find any easy ways to score goals. and all 
 the goals i scored so far where completely from diffenent situations, angles. REALLY COOL.
  
  the only thing i didnt like, was the dept of leagues, options, size of player data base. not 
 enough licences. but for that i am waiting for football manager 08.
  
  this game is a must buy for any soccer funs. the best soccer game on the market for sure. finally 
 some one made good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darthvoldermort
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 26, 2007 4:44 pm PT
Review:  The fresh look of the the interface, the music, the new sound of the commentator and the finest 
 graphic and physics. Its all combined well. First thing I do when I played the first match is keep 
 watching the replay and its truly fantastic. You can see how player kits react with every movement 
 of the player. When you scored a goal you can see how amazing they make the net flow more beautifully 
 and realistic. And more thing to check put on the replay is the face reaction of a player. Its better 
 than before. As for the game I cant say much as I didn't play much yet. But the movement of player 
 is more realistic. Its just about the gameplay. Its pretty much the same. But we'll see. And stop 
 whining about kits and all that as it all can be download later, kitserver and whatnot. Its about 
 the game. This is truly fantastic! Screw FIFA ! ahahaha... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alcak_kofte
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 5, 2007 8:32 am PT
Review:  As i was installing the game all i could think about was the demo. I was praying for a decent ref 
 who wouldn't think every sliding tackle which didn't touch the ball in any area is a card (mostly 
 yellow but even more annoyingly, red frequently) . then installation was completed and i started 
 a master league campaign immediately. so far all i could notice was that it's a heavily modified 
 pes6. Newer &amp; nicer menus, looks, music. but absolutely nothing new was there. just one improvement 
 though, now the leagues are for 20 teams and it includes our division 2. but as you can easily 
 guess, there are only 20 teams from a country, and year after year your national league will become 
 a eu football circus (As it always was) . were you expecting more teams? look somewhere else. to 
 this point, except for the leagues' team count, there's nothing new here. just hi-res, everything's 
 hi-res and looks nice. make your own comment but mine's here Hi-res my arse!!! what i couldn't 
 find in content maybe hiding in the gameplay i thought and after 10-12 matches i went red with 
 anger. i had about 15 goals from crosses. it's ok but hitting a header over 3 of my/ai's defenders 
 isn't ok. running behind a winger to win the ball for 60 meters and still not even shaking him 
 isn't ok. and the ref issue. i don't want to start again but, he never whistles a tackle without 
 a card. i was trying to tackle him when i finally gave up. (he even didn't get that!) you'd think 
 that i lost every single match heavily after this review. and you'd be very wrong. i was leading 
 the serie A with sampdoria at top player difficulty. come on konami, dribbling with the left back 
 for 70 meters and scoring? it's so boring! anyway, you see my score for the game is a 7, so i will 
 have to say sth good about it right? first of all, it has excellent graphics, life like players, 
 perfect camera angles, great commentation, better musics (and a jukebox:) and stunningly realistic 
 physics which makes this pes a total new experience. seriously, make no mistake here, it's still 
 a pes from konami so bow before it before you criticise. in conclusion, you'd totally buy this, 
 sooner you get into new gameplay, sooner you'll be winning against your fellow pes buddies. but 
 in the long run i seriously think it will be a game that opens a new era, next-gen era to be more 
 specific, but not the game ruling that era. and as we7 and pes3 it has the same ref issues and 
 game bias problems. next or following pes will be the real deal i suppose but still thumbs up for 
 konami as they transformed the game to the next-gen computers and consoles with relatively fewer 
 issues. but as long as the content is in the equation we have a long bloody and tearful way to 
 go.
  
  UPDATE: i've ,off course, noticed the frame drop problem in the cut scenes but thought it was my 
 old cpu&amp; high visual settings. (by the way its a amd 3000+@4000+ (2600MHz) , 1 gig dual ddr channel 
 ram@ 476MHz and an x1950pro @ 650/800) . i recently i noticed that it persists even in up-to-date 
 pc. s, ps3&amp; xbox 360 which seems to be a coding problem. hope the patches will help, even though 
 the first didn't. while playing i noticed that the edit mode had been cut to crap, goalies are 
 pure idiots, and whatever you do there always is at least 4-5 up 8-10 goals in a 10 mins match, 
 which is very unrealistic. so i degrade my score to 6. and as there might be a debugged version 
 like we11 very soon, i won't insist that much on buying this title as before. sooner u get the 
 mechanics the better but don't underestimate the cons, cause they can be really, bloody annoying. 
 but, this must be said, it's a game that needs very much getting used to (especially for tackling 
 the ai) so don't judge it for the first 5 to 10 hours. it is all coming down to pes3, like that 
 one, new platform=new issues. be patient, it will get better in a release or two and also keep 
 the hopes up for the patches cause they can change everything if konami WANTS it. let's see what 
 the tides will bring in the following weeks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: whiteboard91
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 26, 2007 5:26 am PT
Review:  Graphics - 9.5/10 When I first played the game, the first thing i noticed was the MASSIVE improvement 
 in the graphics department. This is the first next-gen football game for pc and the graphics are 
 superb. There is 3d grass, 3d crowd, and textures and models are fantastic, plus the fact that 
 the sytem requirements are pretty low for a next-gen game. It truly looks the part.
  
  Sound - 10/10
  
  Again, the sound is a great improvement from before - the crowd sounds real, 
 the sound effects are good and the commentary is just incredible for a football game - the commentary 
 in this game is very VERY realistic and everything seems to come in the right place.
  
  Gameplay - 9/10
  
  I am a big PES fan, and most PES fans go for the game because of the superior 
 gameplay to FIFA. This one does not dissapoint. Animations are extremely fluid and life-like and 
 it really does feel like you are playing real football. The only drawback in my opinion is that 
 the players seem slightly lethargic when running in defense as they dont really react quickly when 
 you tell them to run in a different direction, making one-on-one tackling a little bit tricky. 
 Its no big deal though and does not really affect the gameplay experience.
  
  Presentation - 8.5/10
  
  This is a HUGE improvement from the previous game. Menus are now more 
 slick and theyve actually chosen a decent font. It looks a lot more professional and a lot less 
 arcade-style (bar the main menu) . It still has nothing on FIFA in this department but its great 
 to see big changes being made. As for the pre-match presentation, this is really really good and 
 i think is better that FIFA. I think they could have improved it a bit by having a bit more pre-match 
 commentary whilst the teams are coming on and the team-sheets are being shown, just to make it 
 feel a bit more like a T. V. presentation.
  
  Other stuff - 9/10
  
  -Edit mode is still here, and out-does FIFA by miles, with really in-depth character creation and 
 the ability to add your face into the game using a picture. Team creation is still great too.
 
  -Konami seem to have scooped up some more licenses now aswell and have plenty of national teams 
 with authentic kits, and a few club leagues all fully kitted out (apart from the English League 
 which is still unofficial teams) .
  -PES still has its master league, league, cup and training modes to give enough diversity to keep 
 the game fun and interesting, as well as player progression.
  
  Overall - 9.2/10
  
  Everything in this game just gels together to make by far the best football game out there. The 
 only reason to buy FIFA over this is for more teams and... er... well theres nothing else about 
 FIFA 08 really that is better than PES2008. PES is the one to buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brain20035
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 17, 2007 6:42 am PT
Review:  PES series are renowned for their fluid gameplay. This year however on PC, the popular gameplay 
 is mixed with new and great visuals and a totally new graphic engine which brings the life back 
 to the series. PES is the first football (or soccer) title to bring next gen graphics to the PC 
 and I must admit that it has been very successful in doing that.
  The sound aspect also has taken many steps forward. new music, new commentary, new crowd noise, 
 new referee whistle (!) , etc.
  still all these new things need a little more kick to be realistic. for example there was once 
 that I scored a winner in the 90th minute and the commentary didn't react at all, just saying "he 
 scored again" in a very casual way! if you want to compare PES with FIFA in this aspect (sound) , 
 FIFA surely wins.
  the graphics are great, but player physics aren't realistic at all. the way players run in the 
 field and interact with the ball is so unforgiving. they should really work on that next year.
 
  the gameplay is good but not as good as last year's. the new engine doesn't fit well with the 
 gameplay. one important point is the new diving system which is cool but is a terrible thing to 
 have at your disposal in the game. you might want to keep your distance from the attacker so that 
 they score as easy as pie, or try and get engaged with them to get the ball and the result will 
 be a penalty kick! it doesn't happen all the time but you might not want to risk it.
  much of the gameplay this year is like last year's, but some new aspects have been added as well, 
 namely diving, new shooting system, etc.
  I think this year's PES is a great success for Konami. Hope they keep on making it better and better 
 in the coming years... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Casartelli
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 26, 2007 3:57 am PT
Review:  Pro Evolution Soccer (PES) has a great history. This installment is the 1st next-gen title for 
 the PC. Thanks to that, the graphics looks absolutely stunning! First of all, the bad news. Just 
 15 stadiums (30 on PS2) , cause they had to remodel everything. No PES-Shop, no 2vs2 online, no 
 new game modes, or new additions. Sure diving is a nice addition to the game and well balanced. 
 Then there is a new teamvision engine. PES will learn from its mistakes and will calculate during 
 the hours you play the game how to beat you which is great news for PES fan boys.
  
  Even the PES developer Seabass was disappointment about PES2008 and said that next year, PES2009 
 will be what PES2008 should be. Besides all that, PES has been the football (Im European!) king 
 for only 1 reason gameplay! Sure, there as not as many teams as in Fifa, the graphics arent as 
 good and the presentation isnt as excellent as Fifa.. but the gameplay is absolutely fantastic! 
 Its not a matter if PES or Fifa is better.. It just depends on your taste. The gameplay is so 
 great that youll play it for the next 12 months without being bored!!
  
  Graphics  9
  Sound  8
  Gameplay  10
  Tilt  9
  
  Overall 9 
::::::

::::::
UserName: boltonr
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 26, 2007 1:41 am PT
Review:  First of all. Oh my word the graphics are good!!!!
  
  When you first play the game you think that you might have accidentally put FIFA in the CD Drive. 
 The graphics are of that quality; it is obvious that KONAMI have put a lot of time and effort into 
 this part of the game and it really shows. Players now look like they do in real life, with a few 
 exceptions (Adebayor and Walcott so far) and comparing them to FIFA they look much better. The 
 fluidity of the game has also been greatly increased. It now feels like you are playing a real 
 game of football. The way that the players will sometimes not take a perfect touch of the ball, 
 put a pass stray is very realistic. Also it is much easier to beat players PES 2008, but in a realistic 
 way, meaning that a sudden change of direction will put them off balance and the life like physics 
 of the game mean that you are past them. However there are still good ways to defend, except holding 
 down the pressure key is not always the best way. Slide tacking had also been made a much more 
 risky strategy and it takes a while to get used to the way that the players slide.
  
  The players move in a much more realistic way now. Running can be a lot faster with a quicker players, 
 but dribbling less accurate and visa versa. The gap of skill between the players is now also more 
 greatly defined. Ronaldinho, Messi, Robben and others with particularly good dribbling skill and 
 very useful to run at defence with, however players with less good dribbling might struggle to 
 beat defenders. Shooting has once again been revamped and improved; the power gauge now increases 
 slower meaning that it is easier to pull off mid rage shots, but even more so that the last PES, 
 the timing has to be impeccable. Players are also able to shoot better when under pressure from 
 a player behind, again something which really bugged me in the last game has been sorted out.
 
  
  Goalkeepers. so much better once again. If you thought the keepers were realistic, prepare to be 
 blown away. Not quite sure how to explain it but the way they move around the box, dive for the 
 ball in the air and along the ground is so realistic. They will now also make mistakes which lead 
 to goals, amazingly that will also fumble theball which is a nice extra touch, yet somewhat annoying 
 as it has led to goals for the opposition.
  
  Like KONAMI said it would, the AI has been greatly improved, once again!!!! This team vision 
 thing is really starting to annoy me as it seems to get more difficult to score every game!!! It 
 becomes more and more difficult to score as the game 'learns' how you play which means tha the 
 game constantly provides a challenge. Also players will take you and very often the better players 
 will manager to take it round my defenders, using an array of tricks and feints. I have also seena 
 player dive in the box which i thought showed hwo life like the game has become... would you ever 
 see that on FIFA?
  
  The skills and tricks are also very impressive. The stepovers and feints are very useful and life 
 like, but my personal favourite is the dive. its such a nice feeling knowing you have conned the 
 referee into giving a free kick and then slotting it home. I dare say it will cause many a controversy 
 with friends playing each other and online.
  
  A little downside is that i would appear hand balls have not been sorted out yet which is very 
 frustrating as players have stopped the ball with their hands (quite intentionally i am sure) but 
 overall ti doesnt affect the game too much.
  
  Overall another excellent instalment from KONAMI and well worth playing.. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
