-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Project: Snowblind
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/snowblind/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Like Deus Ex, except fun.
 Inventive gadgets and abilities.
 Simple, enjoyable run-and-gun action.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Chunky graphics.
 Hollow plotline.
 By-the-numbers multiplayer component.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr  4, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.7
Critic Score: 7.7, 17 Review (s)
User Score: 7.7, 779 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Eidos Interactive
Developer: Crystal Dynamics
Genre: Sci-Fi First-Person...
Date:     Mar 17, 2005 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Project Snowblind is a fast-paced and easy-to-get-into shooter with action that's responsive and 
 just unique enough to entertain. 

  Project: Snowblind started its life as a Deus Ex spin-off, with the purpose of capitalizing on 
 that universe's rich fiction and distinct style by pairing it with a more visceral gameplay experience. 
 Despite the fact that Project: Snowblind bears no official Deus Ex ties now, the game brandishes 
 an almost identical near-future cyber-thriller feel, right down to the eerie blue circuit-board 
 highlights on the hero's skin. Crystal Dynamics already delivered Snowblind to the Xbox and PlayStation 
 2 nearly a month before it arrived on the PC, and it will be apparent to PC shooter fans that the 
 game was built specifically with these consoles in mind. It's not the prettiest shooter on the 
 PC, but it's got a good amount of style, and the run-and-gun action stands up pretty well, regardless 
 of the platform.  

          Pagodas and robots: two great tastes.     

  Snowblind borrows liberally from highly recognizable sources, an ethos which might as well be written 
 in the design documents for most modern first-person shooters. As mentioned before, the game's 
 look owes a lot to Deus Ex, though because the action's set in a war-torn near-futuristic Hong 
 Kong, there's a bit more overt Asian influence, both ancient and modern. Still, the game gets a 
 lot of mileage out of contrasting the old and the new, creating a look that's a bit more steely 
 and streamlined than what typified  Blade Runner 's grimy cyberpunk aesthetic. Expect to see a 
 lot of near-futuristic military hardware couched in dilapidated industrial complexes, blown-out 
 urban centers, and -- in one of the game's more visually stunning pieces -- in a massive domed opera 
 house that's been hastily converted in to a POW camp.  

  The game's unwavering devotion to this specific aesthetic goes far in establishing Snowblind's 
 overall vibe, as does an almost fetish-level concentration of filtered lighting effects. There's 
 a soft-glow effect at work for virtually the entire run of the game, which cleverly smoothes out 
 the hard edges while creating a tangible atmosphere. There's a unique effect associated with every 
 one of your special abilities, each of which can change the entire look of the game. The titular 
 "snowblind" effect is especially well done, though considering the harrowing situations when it 
 usually comes up, you'll likely be too freaked-out to really sit back and appreciate it.  

  While the console versions of Snowblind were able to cover up a lot of their sins with nice lighting 
 and filtering effects, certain issues that were more forgivable on the Xbox and PlayStation 2 are 
 a bit glaring on the PC. The character models look kind of chunky and feature some kind of awkward 
 facial modeling, as well as some repetitive animation routines. Textures in general look a little 
 fuzzy, and the levels are, by and large, fairly modest in size. You can just  tell  from the quality 
 and scope of the visuals that Snowblind was originally designed with the PlayStation 2's capabilities 
 in mind. These technical shortcomings aside, the game's pronounced artistic style still comes through 
 loud and clear to help carry a bit of the burden.  

          Rough edges that were hidden on the Xbox and PlayStation 2 are more noticeable on the PC. 
     

  Wrapped around all this glimmer is a by-the-numbers backstory, complete with a grimly stoic hero, 
 unwelcome invasions, vaguely defined military coalitions, and everyone's favorite deus ex machina, 
 a doomsday device that could go at any second. Some story gets crammed in to the margins during 
 in-game cutscenes between levels, and these sequences are brimming with plenty of gravelly, hard-boiled 
 dialogue. The game itself is peppered pretty freely with the idle conversations of bystanding characters, 
  la Half-Life. It's an old trick, but it's an effective one for fleshing out the world in a casual 
 manner. Moreover, the quality of the voice acting helps sell it.  

  The build of the sound isn't quite as unique or specifically designed as Project: Snowblind's visuals, 
 but it's still a solid foundation of gunfire and explosions, accented by a variety of electronic 
 pips, chirps, and hisses produced by machinery both inside and outside of your cybernetically augmented 
 head. Music comes in when it needs to, whether it's to build tension during a quiet stealth mission 
 or to add some extra punch to a firefight. Again, there's a distinct Asiatic feel to the music, 
 so you can almost anticipate the falling of cherry blossoms when the score kicks in at some points. 
     

  The game is more concerned with satisfying firefights and fast pacing than it is tactical complexity. 
 Most of your core weapons are pretty standard, though the electromagnetic pulse rifle is kind of 
 novel, letting you fire at one enemy and having the electrical pulse automatically link itself 
 to other nearby enemies. Grenades come in a variety of flavors, and there are more inventive pieces 
 of hardware you can deploy in combat, too, such as a friendly robotic spider or a stationary force 
 field for instant cover from enemy fire.  

           Some unique gadgets give personality to the game's straight run-and-gun action.     

 
  If that's not cyberpunk enough for you, you'll regularly come across security panels and pieces 
 of machinery that you can hack in to and then take control of. Sometimes hacking is necessary to 
 advance, and sometimes it can just make your day a little less hectic. Either way, it seems a little 
 too easy, because you just shoot the device you want to hack with your special "ice pick" weapon, 
 and presto! You've got complete control over a small security network or perhaps a heavily armed 
 robot.  

  But any first-person shooter hero can squeeze a trigger, and what makes you really special are 
 your unique abilities. You kick things off with the ability to switch your eyesight to "enhanced 
 vision," which works sort of like a cross between infrared, night, and X-ray vision. Soon, though, 
 you'll be able to slow down time, coat yourself in an impenetrable shield, turn yourself completely 
 invisible, or fry enemies with a devastating electrical attack. These admittedly potent abilities 
 are tempered with a fast-depleting energy bar that you'll need to replenish with special pickups. 
 This bag of tricks is one of the more unique aspects of Project: Snowblind, and your special powers 
 can be awful fun to use.  

  Firefights dominate the gameplay, though there are ostensibly stealth-based missions as well. Stealth 
 is more of a suggestion than a hard-and-fast rule here, and you'll have an easier (read: more boring) 
 time if you make smart use of your cloaking ability. Considering all the heavy-handed yet poorly 
 implemented stealth mechanics we've seen in the past, it's pleasant to be able to forgo the stealth 
 altogether without insurmountable penalties. On the rarest of occasions, you'll even get to pilot 
 some kind of vehicle, like perhaps a walking tank or maybe just a heavily armored car. And despite 
 sometimes bearing the clunkiness of an afterthought, these moments help flesh out the world, making 
 it feel more complete.  

          The large multiplayer levels work best when they're closer to the 16-player capacity.  
    

  The single-player game really seems to fly by, wrapping up nicely after a good 10 hours. There's 
 a nice multiplayer component to Project: Snowblind, too, which can be played either over the Internet 
 or over a LAN with up to 16 players. You can tune your online experience in a variety of ways. 
 There are several deathmatch and capture the flag variants to choose from, and you can also pick 
 a different weapon loadout for your character every time you respawn. The game allows some other 
 minor tweaks as well, though the game really doesn't offer anything that hasn't been done before 
 by other PC first-person shooters. The highest praise that can really be doled out here is that 
 all the parts, from the server browser to the weapon balance, seem to function as intended.  

 
  So if you liked the look and feel of the Deus Ex games but couldn't get past the clunky combat, 
 or if you just don't dig the whole role-playing-game thing, Project: Snowblind can prove to be 
 a good time. It's unlikely that Project: Snowblind will completely destroy you, because its pieces 
 are a little too common to incite a paradigm shift. But the pieces are well conceived, and they're 
 effectively assembled into a fast-paced and easy-to-get-into shooter with action that's responsive 
 and just unique enough to entertain.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (30 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: KingLim
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 18, 2008 3:29 pm PT
Review:  Project Snowblind is not entirely original, as it took on the Deus Ex oriental cyberpunk look combined 
 with a gameplay similar to Red Faction, a straightforward and fast-paced FPS against similar-looking 
 enemy militants using a familiar arsenal of weapons including occasional armed vehicles too. There's 
 some bio powers such as invisibility and bullet time to make it interesting, but this sort of thing 
 becomes run-of-the-mill in today's shooters.
  
  Not to say it's bad, in fact, the main gameplay's still fun and engaging despite the common setup. 
 There are chances for stealth and epic fights alike and the best part is, the loading times are 
 minimal. On the other hand, the graphics are a little dull but the score and sound effects are 
 pretty solid. The stages are sufficiently interesting enough to play through once, but the game 
 crashes to the desktop quite randomly a few times, which can be a major turn-off if not for the 
 well-spaced save points. 
  
  All in all, Project Snowblind is worth your few hours given the bargain price.
  
  KingLim 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thrasher505
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 22, 2008 8:41 pm PT
Review:  this is one solid game. aside from some graphics issues which i resolved by adjusting settings 
 this game really didn't give me any problems. 
  for anyone who enjoyed deus ex or deus ex: invisible war (which are both fantastic) this game is 
 a must. it doesn't have the free roaming aspects of the earlier games but it makes up for this 
 in the pure quality of the action you get to play out. the style of the action brings flashes of 
 call of duty to mind for me because although the game is linear the intensity of the action more 
 than compensates for the seeming lack of choice in the path you travel. 
  the majority of the game is gunfights but how the battle plays out depends entirely on which method 
 you use to take out your foes. there are different approaches to battle areas via ventilation shafts 
 and alley ways and such but theres also a very nice variety of weapons and special abilities that 
 could suit any fighting style from stealthy sniper to "blow up everything" demo expert. 
  another small detail that adds to the gunfights is a certain degree of destructable environments. 
 it is definitely not as extensive as it is in games like red faction but it is still very rewarding 
 to be shooting across a courtyard packed with enemies and not only take out your adversary but 
 also obliterate the railing behind which he was standing. 
  overall, quite a rewarding game. i finished it feeling like i'd gotten far more than my money's 
 worth (around 20 dollars) and it is likely that i will play through this game many times more in 
 the future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jospark
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 4, 2008 6:27 pm PT
Review:  The PC version:
  Based upon the packaging, I thought it would be similar to Deus Ex 1 or 2. It's not. It's a repetitive 
 shooter. And the graphics aren't much better than Deus Ex 2. The textures & colors are gray and 
 washed out, and definitely look dated now in 2008.
  
  There are no RPG elements were you can choose how to develop your character. You just get a few 
 powers when you advance through the game. Elements of stealth, plot intrigue, and interesting and 
 memorable characters don't even come close to the Deus Ex games.
  While having a few powers, and some minor stealth opportunities on some levels is better than having 
 none in an FPS shooter, many good shooters also have a colorful setting that inspires imagination, 
 and a strongly engaging storyline that pulls the gamer back into the action. Snowblind's storyline, 
 gameplay, and characters didn't pull me into the game that much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zakld
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 12, 2007 10:18 am PT
Review:  This game adopted many ideas from many different games and I must say the developers have done 
 it successfully. 
  
  I am writing this review a couple of years after i played it, so I can say that it was so successful 
 that many games after it copied ideas from it.
  
  I can't say it is a legendary game so I cannot give it a 9 because 9 is the beginiing of my legendary 
 games and 10 are actual legends (9 is kind of the enterenace to the legends of 10 neighbourhood) . 
 
  
  Soi, I am inclined to give it 8.5. It deserves 8 for its gameplay but bearing in mind that many 
 games after it disappointed and having the benefit of the hindsight I can say that this game was 
 quite sucessful and deserved that 0.5 extra.
  
  I do recommend it. Enjoy it!!
  
  
  My marking system is as follows:
  
  10 - Absolute Legend
  9 - Must Be Played
  8 - Excellent 
 and Worth Your Time
  7 - Worth playing if you have nothing else to play
  6 - worh playing if you have nothing to play and are incredbly bored and have not got absolutely 
 anything else to do. (Barely playable/enjoyable) . 
  
  I don't give marks 1-5 as if a game starts sucking I don't finish it, so I only review the games 
 that are barely playable (6) to the absolutely amazingly incredible ones (10) .
  
  I will also probably keep my reviews short as I don't like discovering too much about the gameplay. 
 I only like to give my quick opinion and get on with life.
  
  Best Wishes to everyone,
  
  Zak
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: vijay39
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 28, 2007 3:59 am PT
Review:  Lets face it. There are A LOT of shooters out there; you could easily be led to believe that there 
 may be no happier gamer out there than someone who blows stuff up wth ever-enlarged weapons of 
 destruction. When it comes to Project: Snow blind (P: S) , these sentiments are also true - its a 
 shooter's game that will keep him/ her happy. It has all the trappings of an FPS game: a hashed 
 plot that could have been much better, hordes of enemies and varied environments to blast your 
 way through. Having said that, it feels highly reminiscent of many other shooters than giving any 
 original experience per se. For example, this game features the inclusion of power-ups, like an 
 energy shield, and enhancements that are very similar to the 'Augmentations' in the mind-blowing 
 Deus Ex. These enhancements make P: S more interesting varied in dispatching enemies but makes the 
 game easy to the point of very little challenge. Many of these power-ups and weapons are not particularly 
 original either, but they are done more entertainingly here than many other shooters. The backdrop 
 for the game is also one that I highly welcome. P: S is located mainly in Hong Kong when our hero 
 Nathan's specialist unit is sent to stop a rising Nationalist terrorist threat that could bring 
 the country near to civil war. But as the plot unfolds, there is a masterplan by a master-bad-guy 
 that is truly global in proportions. I like the fact that it is based in Asia and sees a potential 
 threat from one of the world's hi-tech, financial powerhouses instead of the routine America under 
 attack scenario. But the plot simply becomes a stodgy, disappointing affair coupled with some mediocre 
 voice-acting and scripting; I really believe that better story-telling, script and voice-acting 
 would have truly made this game shine given its story potential. But the cut-scenes are very well 
 edited and keep in tune with heavy-shooting gameplay style. I barely noticed the music, but who 
 does unless it really is remarkable? The graphics seem stuck in the middle of next-gen and, er 
 old-gen , the environments are well-made but the look and feel does begin to show a slight dated 
 quality. At least you don't need a behemoth graphics card/ system to make it perform. However, 
 the game is overall well-presented and produced with some frantic fire-fight sequences and eye-catching 
 futuristic weaponry.
  
  The enemies seem to again nod towards the enemies in Deus Ex: a mixture of armoured soldiers and 
 a myriad of cool looking robots. In fact, P: S almost wants to be a shoot 'em up version of Deus 
 Ex. Could this game really have been possible without Ion Storm's classic? I wonder... Overall, 
 your in for a varied, yet run-of-the-mill shooting experience and if you are looking for a good 
 shooter for 8-10 hours or so, then you cannot go wrong with Project: Snowblind. But either my standards 
 are raised so high because of playing dozens of shooters over the last 12-15 years or P: S simply 
 seems much more style than substance that is indicative of short and sweet, console-style gameplay 
 than as a venerable PC shooter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neatfeatguy
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 17, 2007 8:49 pm PT
Review:  It gets harder and harder to come across any game these days that offers something more then a 
 story about how you're a hero and you alone must save the world. In Project: Snowblind you'll find 
 yourself more often then not, taking out the bad guys on your own. However there are moments throughout 
 the game that you can actually rely on your squad to help deal with some of the waves of enemies 
 coming your way. Don't get me wrong, the story progresses with your outcome, but it is nice to 
 play a game where it doesn't feel like you're the only person working to save the world all the 
 time.
  
  There are no plot twists and the overall story is still based on the fact that you need to save 
 the world; however the story is spun in a clever way. You start out basically as a grunt soldier 
 and you fight along side your comrades to try and defend your base that has come under attack. 
 At the end of the battle you become wounded and you get to play part in becoming something more. 
 As you're rushed to the emergency room on the gurney you hear everything everyone is talking about 
 and you can move your head around to view the surroundings.... but you're pretty much helpless. 
 Eventually, when you're brought back, you come to find out your body is essentially a fancy version 
 of RoboCop.
  
  You grow to learn and understand your new powers as the story moves on. You can basically use super-human 
 type powers to help overcome your obstacles and enemies. You might choose to use your reflex ability, 
 your ballistic shielding or 1 of your other 3 powers you learn. These abilities can help make or 
 break your intense battle situations. All these abilities have different lengths they last, you'll 
 just have to experiment a little to see which ones last longer then the others.
  
  On top of all this, you also come across a slew of weapons to use at your disposal. You get a pistol, 
 rifle, shotgun, rocket launcher, mine launcher and several other guns. All weapons have a secondary 
 fire; for example on the pistol: Your secondary fire is a small rocket - this small rocket costs 
 a full clip to use. Or your shotgun - the secondary fire creates sticky bombs and to use this, 
 it costs 4 out of the 8 rounds you hold in your shotgun. All secondary firing uses the weapons 
 main ammo. Most weapons require extra ammo to work and some don't, like the rocket launchers secondary 
 fire.
  
  One of my favorite things to do is to fire up the reflex ability and run around and melee the hell 
 out of a large group of enemies. Your melee attack consists nothing more then just you swinging 
 your fist, but it works quite well. You can walk up behind enemies that haven't spotted you and 
 melee the crap out of them if you want.
  
  The graphics are fairly good and the game seems to run really well on my computer, with every option 
 maxed out. I don't experience any stutters or slowdowns. My only concern is the random crashes 
 that occur out of the blue. I could be running down a hallway or I could be shooting up enemies; 
 when all of a sudden the game crashes. I didn't mind if this happened after I had just saved my 
 game, but I usually wasn't that lucky and there were a few spots I had to continually replay through 
 because the game would crash. One other grip I have about the graphics is that everything was sort 
 of made to look cartoon-ish and the look really isn't to my liking, but I do have to say that the 
 atmosphere helps make the cartoon-ish graphics more appealing then they really are.
  
  Saving games can be a bit of a challenge at times. This isn't like most games where you can save 
 at any spot in the game just by hitting the Quick Save key. You have to find Save Rooms - think 
 of them as safe rooms. There are generally 2-3 in every level, but you have to keep your eyes peeled 
 open, otherwise you might just walk right by them and not even notice.
  
  The cut scenes were a little sketchy at times, but nothing that didn't correct itself as the scene 
 progressed. Sometimes the images would blur (there are some places where the screen should appear 
 blurry or images blur) when I felt they shouldn't be.
  
  The AI lacks when you compare this game to others out on the market. Halo (the first Halo) has 
 better AI then this game, and I wasn't impressed with Halo's AI. The enemies here use what they 
 have, but they lack the ability to make you feel like you're actually taking on real live people. 
 Granted at times they might find cover, but these are far and few between. Generally the enemies, 
 when out in the open, do just that.... stay out in the open and let you fire upon them. The way 
 the game makes up for its lack in AI, is how at many points throughout the game the enemies try 
 to swarm you, forcing you to make use of your arsenal to its fullest potential.
  
  Overall, the AI needs an overhaul and some of the cut scenes need to flow better. The graphics 
 are pretty good and no one should really be able to complain to much about them, although I wouldn't 
 mind if the graphics lost some of its cartoon-ish feeling and went a bit more realistic. This game 
 should at least be given a chance by any hardcore FPS fan that wants to experience something a 
 little different. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Azghouls
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 15, 2007 6:32 pm PT
Review:  From the very opening scene to the closing scene, Project Snowblind offers the one thing that FPS 
 craves for; action, action and more action. Heavy fire-fights, smashing tanks, hijacking robots, 
 destroying helicopters, EMP blasts and to finish things off, the all dramatic closing 'run-as-fast-as-you-can', 
 this game offer a bit of an adrenaline rush. Even the 'stealthy' scenes requires blowing up half 
 the compound. This and the myriad choices of weapons can make this game quite an enjoyable experience, 
 considering it's a ported console game. However, just like a sudden rush, the game ends rather 
 quickly hence leaving you 'cold turkey'.
  
  Not since Quake II, the opening cinematic provides some drooling material that you want to take 
 on the red army NOW as it shows the Republic Army swoops down on the near future Hong Kong and 
 with all the zooming effects of the 'camera' is like watching a movie on the big screen. All that 
 rapid panning, fading and zooming effects from one location to another tells the story of a war-torn 
 near-future Hong Kong as mechanical machines stomping inwards among the Red Army (obviously China) 
 staking their claim and like a plague and aimingl progress outwards to the rest of the world.
 
  
  Playing as Nathan Frost, a second lieutenant in the Liberty Coalition Army, you form part of a 
 small band of soldiers trying to place a foothold in a minor part of HK only to realise that you 
 have met your demise... you die to save a comrade.
  
  Well, not really (otherwise this will be the world's shortest game; can that be?) . The Coalition 
 has bigger plans for you as you will become a subject of part man, part machine experiment; the 
 Uber Soldier of the future; the 6 million dollar man (subject to inflation) . That is, you have 
 a second chance.
  
  Considering it's a typical FPS (i. e. shoot anything that moves and if it doesn't move shoot it 
 anyway) the controls are a little intimating at first. Taking into consideration that this game 
 was ported from the PS2, there are some noticeable effects that may work on the consoles but not 
 the PC; namely that keyboard/mouse control Vs Gamepad and that odd 'check-point' save system.
 
  
  The reality of PC gamers is that we like the keyboard and mouse combo. When I tried to control 
 my character, I wind up not using much of what this bio-engineered freak can ditch out. It was 
 all too much especially in a heavy firefight. Granted that there's that odd 'pause' system where 
 you can select you grenades, bioaugmentations and weapon of choice all in a matter of pressing 
 a couple of keyboard commands however there's no real other to avoid this 'pause' unless you have 
 16 fingers and 14 mouse buttons all wired into harmony. That said you can imagine that there are 
 many choices to knock off the enemies ranging from hacking to blasting to using turrets to driving 
 armored cars.
  
  This however has a small irony to it. The game designers only made one difficulty level hence the 
 replay value is... well nil. Yet due to the many choices you have to disperse your enemy you can 
 play the game again using say no augmentations or no hacking. This places different styles of gameplay 
 which brings it up to a limited replay value. Too bad though that the game is too short hence this 
 'feature' can wear off very quickly.
  
  The designers' main selling point was the fact there will be many soldiers on the field either 
 fighting with or against you without the sacrifice of frame rates. Well I put this to the test 
 and they actually pulled that off quite well. There were only a very few instances that the frame 
 rates dropped significantly however the ironic part was that it wasn't during a fire fight. Go 
 figure.
  
  Graphically the game is quite hopeless. Considering it was made in 2005 it definitely shows that 
 the PS2 (where the game originally was made for) is heading for that 'passed expiry date'. If you 
 want to do a small comparison of the power of the PC Vs PS2 try looking at this game and look at 
 say Half Life 2 or FEAR. Grant to those who would say the game Cold Fear represents superior graphics 
 however going to memory I think Cold Fear was designed for the XBox first.
  
  Anyway, as stated, graphically it's hopeless. There are some pretty illuminations throughout the 
 game (even all the weapons have some sort of flashing lights attached to it that makes no sense 
 unless you want to go blind) however all the environments looks washed out; like a smudged impressionist 
 painting. On the other hand the cinematic are probably one of the best I have seen in a long time. 
 The cut-scenes really displays 'movie-type' motions like camera shakes, slow-motion and fast panning. 
 A definite bonus is that 'snow-blind' effect when you get shot from an EMP blast. The entire HUD 
 fuzzes and eventually focuses back all with that high electronic piecing sound. Call me a sadist 
 but I like it.
  
  The sound quality is average. There is some heavy thumping of blasting rockets to that chirping, 
 bleeping sound of the computers however nothing that really grabbed my attention or wanting to 
 turn up the volume. Moreover, the voice acting again quite average however the musical scores are 
 quite presentable. I wish the scores are longer and not played in that 'looping' effect.
  
  Considering the above, this game has tremendous potential but not utilized effectively. Granted 
 that the game's setting is in a near future cyber-punk Hong Kong is quite spectacular as the majority 
 of games are set in the USA almost brought tears to my eyes, I thought it's more of a wasted opportunity 
 than a bonus. I was hoping more of that oriental feel (and I'm not talking about swaying lanterns 
 or statues of dragons being oriental) than grunt 'American' warfare of destroying choppers and 
 blasting enemies. Here you have bio-augmentations, hacking, unique weapons, soldiers that fight 
 with you, driving cars and many more however the game itself doesn't utilise all these to its maximum 
 potential. It's more of a show-and-tell then actually using them. Many-a-times I grabbed a turret 
 only to realise there is no enemies to shoot at or driving a car where there's limited road space. 
 So all the ingredients are there to make a killer of a game however just like a discharge, it fell 
 so, so short. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cerza
Rating: 7.3
Date: May 29, 2007 12:12 pm PT
Review:  Project: Snowblind is a cyber punk FPS thriller from Eidos. Project Snowblind started out as a 
 Deus Ex spin-off, and while it now no longer has any official ties to the Deus Ex franchise, the 
 game supports an almost identical look and feel. In Project Snowblind you don the role of second 
 Lt. Nathan Frost, who dies at the end of the games first level and is reincarnated so to speak 
 as a the militarys new super soldier. Your new form provides you with a variety of special abilities, 
 such as being able to see enemies through walls, become invisible, and of course give you a bullet 
 time effect. Each ability has its own fuel gauge, which becomes depleted as you use its respective 
 ability, and will either be replenished with time, or through the use of items you will find along 
 your way.
  
  Project: Snowblinds story is set in a near future (2065) civil war torn Hong Kong. Here you will 
 aid your peace keeping buddies in escaping the Killzone of the city, and bring an end to the conflict 
 so it doesn't escalate into World War 3. How Hong Kong can have a civil war is beyond me, since 
 it's only one city, and how said civil war would cause World War 3 is equally beyond me; however, 
 that is the main objective to be neutralized in Project: Snowblind. All in all its not a bad one 
 either, since the intensity of the fire fights, coupled with the games excellent level design, 
 lush yet simple graphics, and well done audio do a superb job of bringing you into the conflict 
 and keeping you there.
  
  The weapons in Project: Snowblind come both in standard and custom editions. You will get everything 
 from the standard assault rifle and shot gun to some new more original gadgets. One example is 
 the lighting gun, which fires high voltage bolts of electricity, which jump from one enemy to the 
 next within a small radius, electrocuting them in the process. Some of the weapons look, sound, 
 and feel a bit underpowered. However, these tend to be the more standard issue firearms in your 
 arsenal and in the grand scheme of things don't pose much of a problem. This is because you will 
 mostly be using said weapons for fall back purposes. Also, there is always an alternative for how 
 to dismember your foes. One example would be through hacking the local defense network so as to 
 override and gain control of nearby turret.
  
  The AI in Project: Snowblind is both creative and intelligent. It never goes solo, uses every possible 
 means of cover at its disposal, and with its dead on accuracy will cut you down in a matter seconds 
 should it catch you in the open or off guard. This makes for some very strategic and difficult 
 firefights, and will always have you thinking.
  
  In much of Project: Snowblind you will move from one highly intense fire fight to next, though 
 there are some stealth based missions. Its not a game over if you fail to be all Sam Fisher and 
 Splinter Cellish though, since blasting your way through these missions is more than doable, making 
 stealth more of a suggestion than a requirement. During the firefights, the environments you will 
 find yourself in can and will be destroyed. The physics in Project: Snowblind are pretty good, 
 as when you blow up that pretty statue over there the debris will fly in all directions and damage 
 anything it hits respectively.
  
  Project: Snowblinds controls are those of a standard FPS. This makes them easy to use, and allows 
 the player to jump into the action instantly. You can either cycle through your weapons live, or 
 pause the game by binging up your inventory screen and flip through them that way. For the Consoles 
 you move around using the dual analog sticks, interact with the environment with ABXY, or X, Triangle, 
 Circle and Square, and shoot by pulling the respective trigger. On the PC its ASDW to move and 
 strafe, while looking and shooting are accomplished through the mouse.
  
  There is a multiplayer mode in Project: Snowblind as well, allowing you to connect to a fair number 
 of game types with up to 16 other players via Xbox Live or Lan. It would have been nice if this 
 aspect of the game had a split-screen option, since then multiplayer would be much more practical 
 and worthwhile, not to mention receive a good deal more mileage than it currently will. Project: 
 Snowblinds multiplayer doesn't support the level of customization that can be found in other FPS's 
 such as Timesplitters or Pariah, and overall is no Halo. However, there is enough content and variety 
 to this part of the game to allow you to get your money's worth. It should be noted that Project 
 Snowblind isn't without its faults. For instance, the music you will hear in the game, while quite 
 good, has a distinct Asian flavor to it. This is great given the setting is a 2065 Hong Kong and 
 Hong Kong is in China. This would have been perfect if the developers had Asian music from the 
 proper Asian region, as what you are hearing most of the time is Japanese and not Chinese. Its 
 a small continuity error that will go unnoticed by the vast majority that pick up the controller 
 and embark on the adventure; however, it is there and for those that will catch it, should be noted. 
 A second problem with the game is its constant run and gun pace can tend to get very tiring very 
 fast, since the stealth based missions are few and far between. While its nice to not be forced 
 to blast everything in site in order to ensure your survival, these missions are nothing short 
 of Capital B-boring and will have you eagerly waiting to soothe that itchy trigger finger. Fortunately, 
 Project: Snowblind's story should take gamers no longer than 10 hours to get through, and thus, 
 the game does a good job of cutting itself short so as not to run out its welcome. Thirdly, even 
 though you are a super soldier, Project: Snowblind is no walk in the park. Expect to die a lot 
 during the course of this game, as success is determined by your strategy of what gun to use and 
 when to use it, along with what ability you choose to use, and where and when you use it. This 
 is not a game you will get very far in, or enjoy much, if all you want to do is fill your enemies 
 full of lead. Lastly, for you PC people out there, you should know that Project: Snowblind was 
 developed specifically with the PS2 and its capabilities in mind. As a result of this, Project: 
 Snowblind looks like yesteryears sleeper hit on the PC. All of the rough edges and graphical glitches 
 that were covered up due to the low power and resolution on the consoles become blatantly apparent 
 on the PC. As such, Project: Snowblind should really be experienced on the console in order to 
 feel its true brilliance.
  
  All in all, Project: Snowblind is no Halo; however, its by far no Killzone or Pariah either. If 
 youre a FPS fan whose been waiting for some intense, fast paced, and strategic combat, or are 
 a fan of Cyber Punk then Project: Snowblind is for you. If youre not in the groups just mentioned, 
 but are looking for a good game with lots of action and a large amount of fun, then by all means 
 at least do yourself the favor of checking out Project: Snowblind for a weekend rental. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jcjr7
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 28, 2006 9:44 am PT
Review:  Like I said before, Project: Snowblind is awesome, no more than awesome. The plot of the game was 
 so well thought out, and Nathan Frost, who you play as, is the crunkest soldier any game has ever 
 seen. It starts out with you, Nathan Frost, and a squad of soldiers in Hong Kong where a civil 
 war is raging. Long story short, you get turned into a super-soldier and save Hong Kong from the 
 evil general. The main reason why this game is so awesome is because of Frost's augmentations. 
 You can turn invisible, shield yourself, slow down time, and you have a vision that can find enemies 
 even through. The weapons are a lot of fun. There's loads of them, so trust me, you won't get bored. 
 The graphics are amazing. Almost, and I say almost, as good as Kingdom Hearts 2. There's a lot 
 more to Project: Snowblind than said here and any fan of first person futuristic shooters should 
 go out and get this ASAP. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlackFunk
Rating: 6.1
Date: Dec 7, 2006 12:45 pm PT
Review:  Finished another of my bargain bin buys, and that's where you should get it too. This game is a 
 bit like Deus Ex: Invisible War, but even shorter and even easier. The levels are just incredibly 
 small, I couldn't make good use of all the weapons because I would always find ammo for the weapons 
 I loved to use. Only one or two enhancements are even usefull, which makes the so-called cyberpunk 
 atmosphere even less deep than it already is.
  
  Anyway, if you can find the game somewhere cheap, and you like the sci-fi/cyberpunk theme, get 
 it. Otherwise I would recommend against it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the-mystiqu-one
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 27, 2006 3:27 am PT
Review:  project snow blind is ambitious but nothing more, the story is not good but after all it a first 
 person shooter game ( you don't really need a story) the graphics are good but nothing more then 
 that. it takes a lot of time to get used to the game but the new powers and abilities is very good. 
 the last level was hell i couldn't find my way out of it. but the rest of the game was easy i finished 
 the game in 2:50 hours of playing. the sound was very good and it changed under the circumstance.
 
  
  in conclusion the game was good but not worth to buy (take it from a friend or download it if you 
 can) .
  
  by matan malka. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flakk3r
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 6, 2006 2:01 pm PT
Review:  I have to be honest, I bought Project Snowblind just because it was so cheap
  Didn't cost me any money at all so my expectations wasn't that high, wich I realised was very good.
 
  
  From the beginning I saw it as a mediocre fps game, and well it is This game was unfortunatly rushed 
 out on the market, alot of things could have been fixed, and after Eidos now really have abondoned 
 this game I realise that the money I spent was what the game was worth
  
  When I got the game going, it started up quite interesting and it surpried me.
  I played through 
 almost the whole game until it crashed and the load didn't work. But it didn't matter since I got 
 to a point where I just couldn't get anywhere :)
  Even so it has a good storyline, ok graphics, cool gadgets and weapons.
  
  After putting Project 
 Snowblind back on the shelf I still think it was a nice investment despite all the problems.
  
  I think P: S is underappriciated and if the developers had put some more work into this it could 
 have been a really nice fps It was fun playing as Nathan Frost the time it lasted. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vorlon92
Rating: 8.2
Date: Sep 15, 2006 3:36 pm PT
Review:  I am a huge dues ex fan, and while I can see where some dues ex fans would be disappointed by this 
 game... I just took it as a short stand alone title and didn't compare it to the dues ex series.
 
  
  good graphics, good story line and cutscenes, great gameplay, the special abilities are powerful 
 and each one will come in very handy at certain points. the only real negative thing I have to 
 say about this game, it is very short. oh yea, and it isn't dues ex :-) j/k
  
  pick it up in your local bargain bin, I got it for 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alex_morel_123
Rating: 7.8
Date: Aug 23, 2006 7:07 pm PT
Review:  This is one game that is worthing playing, especially not that you can find it for under 10 bucks. 
 The story is okay and will make you wanna finish the game. The game has a cool futuristic feel 
 to it and the powers that the main character has are very hot to use. The game also has a great 
 arsenal with tons of different weapons and stuff like Riot Wall witch is like a grenade you throw 
 and makes a shield for, just to name one. THe game also has lots of action and some stealth involved 
 too. You will to play this game again since there are multiple ways to kill the bad guys. Overall 
 it is a great game that was probably just taken out at the wrong time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jc444
Rating: 3.8
Date: Jul 24, 2006 1:58 pm PT
Review:  The game's unwavering devotion to this specific aesthetic goes far in establishing Snowblind's 
 overall vibe, as does an almost fetish-level concentration of filtered lighting effects. There's 
 a soft-glow effect at work for virtually the entire run of the game, which cleverly smoothes out 
 the hard edges while creating a tangible atmosphere. There's a unique effect associated with every 
 one of your special abilities, each of which can change the entire look of the game. The titular 
 "snowblind" effect is especially well done, though considering the harrowing situations when it 
 usually comes up, you'll likely be too freaked-out to really sit back and appreciate it. the aiming 
 sucks! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: perlox
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jul 6, 2006 6:32 pm PT
Review:  hmmm, a tough game to review.
  this is the type of game that if played, youll have a good time, but if u dont play it, you wont 
 miss out, and there are plenty of substitutes.
  the actual gameplay seemed unfinished, like it was lacking something crucial. maybe a good interface, 
 or a handy way to keep track of what u have and what your using. idk, its like i said, a tough 
 game to review.
  the graphics were deifnetly a dissapointment compared to other games around its release, and the 
 sound in mine was screwed up. im not sure why, little support for a Creative Audigy sound card? 
 Kind of odd....
  the story was ok, kind of weak. so dont expect much in this department.
  i would have to say the only redeemable part, but being able to kill enemy after enemy with grim 
 satisfaction. you could unload and waste a ton of guys and run into the next room and do the same 
 thing. it was fun.
  the multiplayer was weak, almost seemed unfinished or rushed. so again, dont expect much.
  oh 
 ya, and the guns... not cool.
  so basically, this game is for someone bored and wanting to play a new game, but beyond that, get 
 any of the "similar games." 
::::::

::::::
UserName: evilresident666
Rating: 8.2
Date: Apr 16, 2006 1:13 pm PT
Review:  When i learned that Project: Snowblind started its development as a Deus Ex game that explained 
 alot. Deus Ex is a great game and so is Project snowblind. The graphics are kind of blah, but the 
 futuristic shooting efects are pretty cool. The game sounds pretty sweet but the lack of customized 
 soundtracks kind of disappointed me. I paid 20 dollars for this game so i cant complain, it truly 
 is one of the best twenty dollar games ever, and is a underapriciated First Person Shooter that 
 deserves a place in your collection. But to be safe you may want to rent it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ricwhite
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 10, 2006 9:05 pm PT
Review:  I purchased Project: Snowblind at a used game store for eight dollars. I'd say it's worth at least 
 ten. It was an enjoyable FPS. I played it through without using the augmentations the main character 
 possessed which made it a little more difficult. But, as FPS go, it was only a moderately difficult 
 game.
  
  Graphics: 7 out of 10. Since this game is a little dated, the graphics weren't on par with recent 
 games. I was actually a little surprised that I had to turn down the resolution slightly in order 
 to get a good frame rate. The environments were fairly well displayed and the cut scenes were good. 
 The "suddenly appearing" hostiles were amusing. You'd take a step and see a dozen hostiles appear 
 a few hundred yards in front of you as if by teleporter. 
  
  Sound: 6 out of 10. Nothing amazing here. The music and effects were all good. The guns had adequate 
 punch to them and the music added to the atmosphere. There were a few annoyances, however, such 
 as music that suddenly changed when you took a step and then changed back when you stepped back. 
 It was fun to walk back and forth to make the music change.
  
  Story / Characterization: 6 out of 10. No, this is not Deus Ex  although the game looked as if 
 it were modeled after it somewhat. The story was no where near that level however. The characters 
 were quite forgettable. Sigh. . . of course NOTHING will come close to Deus Ex in that category. 
 
  
  The variety of weaponry was quite good. Some of the guns were different than in many standard FPS 
 games. The game allowed for differing tactics to be used, which gives some replay-ability. The 
 single player game was quite short. Overall, I give the game a 7 out of 10  which was higher than 
 expectations and worth every penny of my loose change. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: War_Tourist
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 8, 2005 9:14 pm PT
Review:  Don't let the lack of branding fool you. This is a Deus Ex game down to the air duct grates behind 
 the staircase, and it's a good thing. 
  
  The much hyped emphasis on combat is there, but since I played the original PC products like **** 
 Rambo, it's not all that different for me. Where in the Deus Ex 1 and 2 you could really cover 
 a lot of ground by hijacking turrets/robots, sam-fishering past lots of skipped guards in the afore 
 mentioned air ducts, or blasty blasty, in Snowblind that variety has shifted mostly into weapon/biomod/deployable 
 region. You can still hack like a bastard, and it saves you some grief, but the game introduces 
 so many weapons so early in the game that you get the drift. Within the first 20 minutes, I found 
 and got primers on the assault rifle, shotgun, rocket launcher, silenced pistol, hacking tool, 
 frag/flashbang/EMP grenades, see-through-buildings/slow time biomods, many with alternate firing 
 modes. And the hardware only gets weirder from there. Grenades can bounce or be detonated on command, 
 which turns out to be a very elegant 'cooking' solution. You can mix and match 'presets' for lack 
 of a better term, which means you basically pick one in each category (weapon/biomod/deployable) 
 and fight the fights. It's really pretty cool and the game lavishes on the new abilities and hardware 
 consistently. By the time I stopped tonight, I had at least 10 weapons, 5 abilities/grenade types. 
 
  
  I've been playing a lot of console games lately and really appreciate solid controller mapping. 
 Snowblind does a clever thing where left on the dpad cycles biomods, right cycles deployables, 
 and up/down do weapons. Sure, they forfeit the other direction cycling, but after a while you're 
 very quickly configuring the right kit for the right situation. While on the topic of consol-isms, 
 it's got what I would consider a pretty harsh save system. You've got to really 'find' the save 
 points after the first couple of missions, and there's usually only one max per 15 minute-esque 
 level. Many missions I never found one, though they could've existed, I can't be sure. Fortunately 
 replaying huge swaths of the game encourages experimentation with your character configuration 
 and can be a good excuse to shift up your strat. One cool thing they do with saves is dump lots 
 of health and energy (mana for the biomods) in the save point area so when you do save, you're 
 in pretty good shape. On xbox live it's got what reviews refer to as perfunctory MP, but I'll have 
 to wait for the PC version to see what it's like. 
  
  Snowblind has a decent narrative, with solid writing, mediocre voice recording, and some sharp 
 editing in their cinematics. The whole 21st century cyberpunk war in Hong Kong is convincingly 
 carried off in the gameplay and movies. The game has a lot of the same landmarks that the previous 
 titles did, so look forward to plenty of gun fights among giant statue lions in rainy urban canyons. 
 If the high-tech lowlife aspects of Deus Ex appealed to you, its here, though acutely more military 
 in tone. 
  
  I really like this game. In many ways I find it a more enjoyable Deus Ex game than Invisible War, 
 albeit with approximately half the features of that title. If you like complicated, kinetic science 
 fiction FPS (regardless of platform) give it a few hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CmdrMcNeil
Rating: 7.3
Date: Nov 18, 2005 2:31 pm PT
Review:  Project: Snowblind is a Sci-Fi FPS that has it's roots in the incredible Deus Ex series. While 
 this isn't treading new ground or really following in the vein of those previous classics Project: 
 Snowblind is still a worthy FPS that is a good addition to any gamer's collection.
  The thing that has set this game apart for me is that you don't see many of this type on the PC. 
 One where you are just one soldier in a sci-fi future war. This falls into the super soldier mold 
 similar to Halo but just like that game there are parts where you feel part of a greater conflict 
 and just like that game it has some really fun moments. The story is also pretty original from 
 my standpoint at least in terms of setting and execution. 
  The game takes place in Hong Kong of the future in a way of what could have happened if the citizens 
 of Hong Kong hadn't decided to join the People's Republic peacefuly, thus setting off a major crisis 
 in which a group of Global Peacekeepers must intervene. I really enjoy the story behind it and 
 really drove me to see what would happen next. Even though I feel it does devolve into the madman 
 with superweapon story all in all I like it. So now that the story and setting issues are out of 
 the way let's break down the techincal side of it.
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay follows in the traditional FPS style as far as the shooting goes. The arsenal 
 is very nice and well rounded, and just plain fun to mess with. The game does a decent job of keeping 
 the pressure on you in both terms of action and stealth elements. The maps for each mission are 
 pretty well laid out and the game's setting makes for never a dull moment. I do have some minor 
 complaints about the game's AI which shows it's console roots. The enemy tends to just rush at 
 you which makes for some easy kills, but the lack of ammo and quantity of enemies thrown at you 
 tends to offset this slightly. The special implants also makes things fun but I felt that using 
 them was too unwieldly with me having to stretch across the key board to activate them. That and 
 kepping track of which key activated which implant proved to be a pain. There are many fun moments 
 in this game and during the whole thing I never felt like I was retreading old ground. There are 
 vehicle bits but these are too far and apart and dull to be a real boost to it they mostly consist 
 of you simply blasting your way through and area, but the Mech part still proved fun.
  
  Graphics: Whle primarily intended for consoles the graphics are just fine for me. The maps all 
 look very nice and succesfully blend the old Chinese architecture with the futuristic city. The 
 weapons are all modeled well, but character models seem to suffer even at higher resolutions. The 
 animations are also dissapoint especially deaths, there doesn't seem to be any real use of physics 
 at least not to the same extent seen in Half LIfe 2. Also the constand bloom and overall fuzzy 
 glow of all the graphics seems a tad weird. Still all and all things still look pretty.
  
  Sound: This is my favorite part the sound is amazing. From the asian sounding music to the rapport 
 of gunfire Project: Snowblind is a real audiophiles joy. Running it on a Audigy 2 ZS with 5.1 sound 
 is simply amazing and the highest point in the game for me. Never as dull moment here.
  
  Value/Tilt: I'm grouping these two together; and it is here where the game falls down. In similar 
 vein to Doom 3 and the recent Quake 4 I feel like once it was over that was it. The single player 
 campaign is spectacular but as soon as I finished it I uninstalled it. It was still a really fun 
 time and if I get tired with some of my more recent games I'll bring it back and play it again. 
 I feel like your getting a great sungle player game, but beyond that not much else. Since it is 
 a console port that also limits it's rplaybility as most of the levels are linear and offer only 
 one real way to reach a goal.
  
  Concusion: A great single player experience that doesn't break new ground but offers satisfing 
 first person shooter action.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: HunterBruno
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 16, 2005 7:10 am PT
Review:  Just finished this great game and it was worth to play but I had to restart the game to many times. 
 The saving options is great and just because of that I just become to the end. A little shame that 
 there is not after more than a year a patch ready or an update. 
  The game play fast and easie and your weaponery is great, sometimes an overkill but who cares. 
 They're a lot of enemies to kill.
  Finally I will go to the shop and just play this straight on game, it's much better than Pariah 
 but like many of this kind a little short. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vashimkhalifa
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 7, 2005 6:54 pm PT
Review:  IT extremely fast with cool gadget with a decent stroyline. 
  You have many abilites that make you a ninja gunner, only wished they gave u a sword or katana 
 to kill people wih more stryle. The main hero will make u feel like ur the ninja from solid snake.
 
  the bio-enhancements are really cool and dont make u super powerful and aren't copies of the same 
 matrix style shooting. 
  Yeah u get fast reflexes, but they are helpful and they cant be done all time. the other abilites, 
 like semi x-ray vison, body shiled and shealth mode are cool
  the action is great the AI is a litte stupid but are in mad supply so careful.
  the idea of hacking 
 is cool, could have used more in this area, but then it will still enough 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bagman34
Rating: 7.9
Date: Sep 23, 2005 1:06 am PT
Review:  Project: Snowblind is a bit of a throwback to the days when shooting was everything and you didn't 
 worry about plot or pixels. This game is a solid run and gun shooter that doesn't need much strategy, 
 just lots of ammo. What makes this game unique is the use of the bio-enhancements that your character 
 has that you can use at any time durring the game. You can slow down time, put up a ballistic shield, 
 see through walls, and ever fire lightning bolts. You unlock different powers as you play through 
 the game. The graphics are not amazing, but they are good enough. The storyline isn't the most 
 facinating ever, but it moves the game along nicely. The sound is good, with reasonable voice acting 
 and futuristic weapon sounds. I probably put in around 10 hours of play time into the game, which 
 seemed reasonable enough, too much more and it would have become boring, but I never got bored 
 with it. All in all a game worth playing if your looking for a good FPS that you can pick up for 
 less than $20. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: microkraken
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 9, 2005 6:21 pm PT
Review:  I bought this when it came out, and man, was it a disappointment. Graphics are shoddy (I mean, 
 come on - this is 2005) , FPS mechanics feel "off", level design is simplistic, dialog and voice 
 acting are sometimes eye-rollingly awful, the "story" is fairly cheese-ball, and it's a pretty 
 short game. I felt like I was playing a bad demo of something from five years ago or more. I thought 
 this was only a mildly amusing FPS (it felt more like work than fun) , and kept playing through 
 only to wring every last dollar out of this loser. Pass up this bargin bin fodder and buy Far Cry 
 or Half-Life 2 instead. I wish someone had given me the same warning. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sniper
Rating: 6.1
Date: Aug 11, 2006 6:48 pm PT
Review:  Long story short: Project Snowblind should be awesome. But it keeps crashing, which results in 
 naked rage, instead of relaxation. Don't buy this game, unless you enjoy punishment.
  
  Short story long: Project Snowblind is a prime example of a fast-paced and fun 3D shooter dragged 
 down by technical troubles. Its such a shame, too, because almost all the elements are in place 
 to make Snowblind an outstanding entertainment experience on your PC. So whats the problem? One 
 word: Crash! No matter how many settings you fiddle with, nothing can stop this game from crashing 
 every 15 minutes. Seriously, didnt anybody play test this thing?
  
  Instead of issuing a much-needed patch, publisher Eidos and developer Crystal Dynamics advise users 
 to disable the Full-Screen Effects option in the games setup utility. Too bad this answer doesnt 
 stop the problem of random crashes.
  
  Although sometimes it seems crashes arent so random. During a fight against a big boss man, I 
 thought, The damn thing is going to crash just as soon as I beat this commander dude. Sure enough, 
 down the game went, right after I finished this tough fight, and before I could save my progress.
 
  
  Project Snowblind is actually a lot of fun, when it works. The game puts you in the boots of Lieutenant 
 Nathan Frost, a foot soldier with the Liberty Coalition Army, caught in a war against the evil 
 Republic, set in a near-future Hong Kong. Youre wounded during a surprise attack, and healed by 
 doctors who transform you into a super-soldier with bio-augmentations that give you some pretty 
 cool abilities. As a natural-born $!#+ disturber, my favorite augmentation is Cloak  undetectably 
 punching someone in the head never gets old. Yeah, baby!
  
  The weapons in Project Snowblind are neat, too. Theres a flechette launcher with an imaginative 
 alternate fire mode that shoots glowing, insect-like energy balls. This whirling swarm intelligently 
 seeks and surrounds a nearby target, wearing its health down like a school of ravenous piranha. 
 In fact every weapon has a useful and effective alternate fire.
  
  In addition, you can hack into computer-controlled cameras, security robots and ceiling turrets, 
 using these gadgets against their makers. You may commandeer vehicles like the Ogre, a hulking, 
 two-legged mech with multiple rockets, and also man heavy machine guns and four-barreled anti-aircraft 
 cannons. Altogether, it feels like theres an endless number of ways to blow stuff up real good, 
 and generally spread mayhem.
  
  Not so great are the graphics, which constantly remind you the PC version of Project Snowblind 
 started life as a humble console port. Fuzzy, washed-out textures and low polygon models scream 
 PS2!
  
  Multiplayer in Project Snowblind offers a variety of different game modes. These consist of deathmatch, 
 capture the flag, tactical assault, demolition and hunter. Tactical assault pits two teams against 
 each other, with players defending their own shields and generator, while striving to destroy their 
 oppositions hardware. Demolition is a contest to plant/defuse a bomb, while hunter pits one invisible 
 uber-player equipped with every weapon against a pack of weaker opponents.
  
  These game types are fine in theory, but no one is playing Project Snowblind online. My theory 
 is that many users experienced the same disappointing crashes during the single-player campaign, 
 and simply gave up on Project Snowblind. Eidos could have fostered a community (and franchise) 
 around this game by providing a patch to stop the incessant crashes, but if a publisher isnt going 
 to support its customers, why should they support that companys product? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Antiman90
Rating: 5.8
Date: Aug 20, 2005 1:23 pm PT
Review:  Project Snowblind began as a spin-off to the Deus Ex series and the resemblence shines, so much 
 you'll have to turn your monitor off every now and then because your eyes hurt. Just kidding about 
 that last part. Now Project Snowblind is a shooter set in 2065 during a Civil War in China, to 
 which the Americans have taken interest to. They are the "Liberation Force" while the enemy is 
 the "Rupublic Army." Anyway early on in the game you get blown up and then you die in the hospital, 
 but then wake up. As it turns out, you were the perfect candidate for the army's test to build 
 super-soldiers, and you came out a litle undercooked, at least the game did anyway.
  
  The begining of the game is a few seconds of cut-scene and then you're in the battle, but as awesome 
 as it sounds to go in and shoot people right from the get-go, the game takes you out of what you'll 
 find is already a fairly boring experience with it's pop-ups. As soon as you pick up a gun (or 
 try and walk) it will give you the specs for that gun, which for the most part are obvious given 
 the name of the gun. This obviously gets better as the game progresses, but there are two other 
 big problems. First off, the game feels like it belongs in an arcade. There isn't too much story 
 presence here, and the game is basically you with a couple of guns running around and shooting 
 people... for a long time.
  
  Okay, so we've already established two flaws in the game, but there is one more. The characters 
 in the game boast that you are some kind of super-soldier, and you do get that feeling very often 
 in the game, it's just for all the wrong reasons. The AI in the game is horrible as you and an 
 enemy will be fighting and suddenly he'll stop, turn somewhere and then just freeze altogether. 
 Also, plenty of enemies will hide behind gas containers, explodable gas containers. Overall, there 
 is just a total breakdown of AI here. It's also fairly tough to figure out if an enemy is dead 
 or not after you've shot him because they do the wierd faint motion where they kinda twirl their 
 heads around for a bit. The first time you see it, you think he's down for the count, but then 
 hell snap back up.
  
  One neat thing about the game is the Icepick, which lets you hack into vehicles and droids and 
 use them on the enemy, or hack a turret and have it auto-fire at the enemy. It's just too bad that 
 Project Snowblind didn't have any other futuristic gameplay elements like this, because aside from 
 the pretty guns you don't get the feeling that it's 2065.
  
  Speaking of pretty things, well kinda, let's talk about graphics. They're good. They aren't spectacular, 
 in fact a lot of better looking PC games have come out in recent months and years. The audio department 
 is equally unremarkable. The game doesn't have too much in the way of audio save for the sound 
 of guns and you're commanders yelling at you to hurry up and get to them.
  
  And last and unfortunately least is the multiplayer. It actually is a solid multiplayer system, 
 it's just too bad that nobody's ever on it.
  
  And if you want to talk glitches, there are a few. For example if you're CD or DVD drive (depending 
 on which version of the game you bought) is also a burner, and chances are it is, then the game 
 won't run, it'll give you an error message that says "Original disc could not be found or authenticated" 
 and the game won't start. One long-distance phone call and a patch later, the game was finally 
 running. The main menu finally loads and I wanted to do single-player. The game crashes to your 
 desktop, then a few seconds later reboots and the single-player loading screen is up. This is true 
 for Multiplayer as well.
  
  To review, the PC game is only $15, it really is up to you if you want to buy it. It is worth at 
 least playing for yourself but I really cant recommend a purchase here, even at the $15 price. 
 But hey, if you are in the mood for a broken and fairly disappointing shooter then this game is 
 for you. If not, wait for it to become $5, then buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NoBodyNoSoul
Rating: 8
Date: May 14, 2005 3:26 pm PT
Review:  Well, i gotta say that i just bought this game dont expecting anything REALY cool, but even thought 
 i had just ended playing Half-Life2 i could still squeeze some hours of entertainment whith this 
 game.
  
  Firstly the bad stuff, the graphics are realy not up to its competitors, still, its ok and even 
 beautiful at one time or another. The textures are REALY REALY low res. and the models are not 
 well done as well, but nothing if perfect right?!
  
  The sounds are ok overall, but the weapons sounds a litle low and the efects could ve been done 
 better. The music as well is to blury to be noticed on the most part of the game.
  
  The gameplay is fluid, even if you are fighting alone on long corridors or on the open ground whith 
 about a dozen units backing you up. Still the whole game, since the start, i have been waiting 
 for "the big war", when both sides would take up their bots and tanks and everything they got and 
 trow it against the other on a real battle, and i got REALY disapointed when i got to the end whithou 
 seeing ANY of this. Learning to control your abilitys will take some time, and even when you get 
 used to it, you will make some mistakes like trowing the wrong granade or activating the wrong 
 ability.
  
  The history is good, but not very well told. I had to whatch some parts twice simply because they 
 put important information on very shor cutscenes, and pointless stuff on HUGE scenes that take 
 minutes and minutes to end. The main character is kinda charismatic but the other people that walk 
 whith you to the end are just not deep enough, and could ve been done better.
  
  Vehicles are VERY under used on the game, and even at time when u get to them, the terrain arround 
 you is just SO badly designed that will be a fight just to get from point A to point B whithout 
 beeing stuk on litle rocks or ants on the way!
  
  The game is easy to play, you dont have much of a choice on the paths you folow, so the game is 
 linear like any other arround, and the monsters are REALY REALY dumb. You could just take out them 
 one on one and the other felow that is about 3 feet away wont even bother to help. They dont search 
 for cover, they will all just stand still on the ground while you rip them all of whith a mounted 
 machine gun. They dont make strategys, they will always run towards you shotting or at best stay 
 behind an obstacle whith their heads poping out.
  
  The abilitys you colect arround the game are pretty cool, still they are kinda pointless once theres 
 no specific use for any of them, they ARE usefull, but you can end the game whithout them whith 
 no trouble at all.
  
  The mutiplayer part of the game is as well good enough to entertain for some time, thought the 
 same issues from the singleplayer part are still there. The maps are just not fun enough, vehicles 
 are almost useless, and the gameplay is a litle to slow cause of the huge terrain you have to walk 
 to go from a place to another, even whith the full server capacity. But some modes like Assault 
 are great to play, even thought finding a server to play on can be quite tricky.
  
  There are as well some stuff that could ve been added to the game like an option to see the cutscenes 
 alone (i had to play some missions twice just to see the ending scene) and a mission selector so 
 you could play a determined mission when you want since you cant save all the mission because theres 
 a restriction for how many saves you can make.
  
  
  On the overrall the game is realy good, but for me it seemed that the devoleper had great ideas 
 on mind for this game but just didnt realised them all. A good history whith a solid gameplay and 
 even thought lots of features could ve been added to add some replayability it still worths checking 
 out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Greynar
Rating: 7.1
Date: Apr 26, 2005 3:05 am PT
Review:  After years of FPS play, I keep looking for that new Doom experience, the eye-popping Quake sensation, 
 that visceral adrenaline rush from outwitting the Half-Life AI.
  
  This isnt it.
  
  Although the gameplay has everything you could want in a First Person Shooter, it lacks innovation, 
 and, its just too damn short. I had just finished Doom3 and Half-Life 2, and started searching 
 the shelves for a new escape from this reality, and came across Project Snowblind. I was a huge 
 fan of Deus Ex, and was only slightly disappointed with Invisible War. So, when I checked out the 
 storyline, I thought that I would at least get that, with a little more action.
  
  I got the action, just a lot less story.
  
  Dont expect to be blown away, and you wont be 
 let down.
  
  So, sit up, twitch your trigger finger, play with the enhancements, and youll get 10 to 12 hours 
 of blasting away.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctor_kaz
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 1, 2005 1:02 pm PT
Review:  Project: Snowblind provides a fun, fast-paced campaign that makes for an exciting but short-lived 
 romp. The game also has a cool setting and some nice style to go along with the action. Its a 
 pretty obvious console port, and its nothing revolutionary, but this is a good game for FPS fans 
 who would like a nice action snack to tide them over for a weekend.
  
  The best way to describe Project: Snowblind would be as a cross between Red Faction and Deus Ex. 
 The shooting levels generally consist of you mowing down dozens of fodder enemies with high-powered 
 weapons and stationary turrets. Tons of health packs and ammunition are spread around every level, 
 so you can empty four clips into a bunch of enemies and get shot to within an inch of your life 
 without any worries. The game also has some stealth levels, but fortunately, stealth is optional, 
 and you can go in guns blazing if you still want. Last, but not least, there are some short-lived 
 vehicle segments too, which make for a decent change of pace.
  
  Project: Snowblind borrows the concept of bioaugmentations from Deus Ex, along with a lot of the 
 gadgets like Spider Bot grenades and gas grenades. The game is very forgiving, and you should be 
 able to complete most levels on the first try. The easiness of the game helps offset the checkpoint 
 save system that we PC gamers love to hate. Level design is a lot like Call of Duty. You storm 
 objectives with your fellow UN Security Force fighters while your commander occasionally barks 
 out orders. Defend this building! Man that turret! Blow up that tank! You also have solo 
 infiltration-type levels where you hack computers, shut off tripwires, etc. Most of it is nothing 
 that you havent seen before, but its executed very well here. Levels are designed well, and the 
 pacing of the game is perfect, so you can generally play for an hour or two without noticing the 
 time go by.
  
  Arguably the greatest strength of Project: Snowblind is that it provides a huge weapons and gadgets 
 loadout along with levels that provide you with a variety of ways to approach each situation. Each 
 weapon in the game is fairly useful, and so are the augmentations and grenades. Sometimes, it's 
 fun to replay a battle more than once just to see how it turns out when you use different tactics. 
 
  
  This games faults generally stem from the fact that it is a console port. The graphics scream 
 Playstation 2. Textures everywhere look low-res and muddy. Characters are blocky, and the interface 
 is way too big. But worst of all, is the cumbersome control scheme. The use key is automatically 
 bound to the same key as the reload key. If you are used to using E for use and R for reload, 
 then youre going to have an extremely hard time getting used to R for use. The default control 
 scheme is worthless and chances are, youll have to rebind your keys about a dozen times to finally 
 get a setup that feels good. Every key on the left side of your keyboard, every number key, and 
 almost every function key is bound to something. There are just too many keys to memorize in too 
 short a time here. Cycling through your augmentations or grenades in the heat of battle is next 
 to impossible. I played through the entire game, and it just never felt right.
  
  One of this games best assets is its setting. Its very easy to see the Deus Ex influence here, 
 both in the visual style, and the story. The game takes place in the war-torn streets of 2065 Hong 
 Kong, and at the very least, this should earn it some originality points. The game has a lot of 
 style contrasts. Its interesting to fight through an old-fashioned settting with Buddha statues 
 and incense burning while using your high-tech assault rifle and nano-augmentations. There are 
 a couple of neat visual effects in the game, like the Snowblind effect that happens when you 
 get caught by an EMP grenade. Basically, your HUD goes wacko for a second and all that you can 
 see is static. The game also has a halfway decent physics engine for objects in the environment, 
 which you can occasionally use to your advantage. It's too bad that there are no ragdolls for enemies 
 though, because this game could have used them.
  
  The audio manages to be competent without being remarkable. Weapons sound okay, but not spectacular. 
 Voice acting is not too bad, but the writing and the story that goes with it is pretty cheesy.
 
  
  Project: Snowblind is very short and takes less than 8 hours to finish. There isnt really enough 
 there to go back and replay it, so its kind of questionable whether the game is worth your money 
 for the single player alone. If not, then its at least worth getting in the bargain bin. The campaign 
 might be too short, but it is very enjoyable overall. If you have exhausted your copy of Doom 3, 
 Half-Life 2, Painkiller, and Far Cry, then I recommend playing Project: Snowblind eventually. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: knitecrow007
Rating: 7.9
Date: Mar 27, 2005 9:13 pm PT
Review:  Project: Snowblind is a striped down Deus Ex or its lack-luster follow up "Deus Ex: Invisible War." 
 with just the pure basic action FPS elements. Unfortunately it was the non-FPS elements (such as 
 multiple ways to accomplish an objective) that made Deus Ex a great game. Snowblind comes off as 
 being bland -- there is nothing extra-ordinary about it. Everything (graphics, action, story, mission 
 design, weapons) is "been there down that" often times better by other games (farcry, Half-life2 
 etc)
  
  
  The Good:
  - Good design
  - Competent action FPS. Solid gameplay.
  - "cyber powers" add an interesting mix to the game play element
  
  
  The Bad:
  - BLAND 
 -- competent but nothing about this game sticks out
  
  
  The Ugly:
  - Nothing about this game sticks out and is easily forgettable.
  - No longevity past the single 
 player mode.
  
  
  Snowblind is just a basic action FPS shooter and it doesn't stray too far from the FPS shooter 
 formula. Ultimately it is that cookie-cutter design that makes this game a let down. 
  
  
  FINAL WORDS
  While not a bad game, its not great either. Definitely rental. Worth getting 
 it on ebay for no more than $5.
  
  Better than Doom3, I would check out farcry, Half-life2, Brother in Arms, and even the very short 
 (in terms of game play length) Starwars Republic Commando before I try this game out.
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
