-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Project Eden
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/adventure/projecteden/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 25, 2001
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.8
Critic Score: 7.4, 16 Review (s)
User Score: 7.8, 149 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Eidos Interactive
Developer: Core Design Ltd.
Genre: Sci-Fi Action Adventure
Date:     Oct 8, 2001 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The logical environment-based puzzles in Project Eden represent what may be the best hope for the 
 continuing evolution of adventure games. 

 Judging from the prerelease screenshots, advertisements, and previews, you might get the impression 
 that Project Eden, a sci-fi-themed game from the creators of the original Tomb Raider, is primarily 
 action-oriented. Just so there's no confusion, it's not. It's first and foremost a real-time adventure 
 game. And though it too often strays into an underdeveloped and unsatisfying combat system, when 
 it sticks to adventure, it's quite successful.           You'll send four officers into the Real 
 Meat company to uncover a dark secret.    

  You're given control of four officers of the Urban Protection Agency (UPA) , the police force of 
 a towering futuristic megalopolis. Sent to investigate an equipment malfunction at a company called 
 Real Meat, they uncover a sinister plot. In order to continue the investigation, the team must 
 descend, level by level, into the bowels of the human hive they're paid to protect.   

  The plot's pretty thin, which is just as well, since the voice acting ranges from bad to, relatively 
 speaking, not quite as bad. An occasional snippet of conversation and some between-level cutscenes 
 provide just enough details to explain what's going on without dragging the game down with a lot 
 of tedious, unnecessary dialogue.   

  The centerpiece of each of the game's 11 large levels is a series of sometimes wickedly complex 
 environmental puzzles. Each level represents some deeper section of the city, and almost every 
 one begins with your arrival by elevator and ends with the team taking an elevator to a lower floor. 
 You control one team member at a time, but you can switch between them on demand.   

  Each team member has a specific skill. The leader, Carter, can secure certain UPA equipment and 
 interview citizens (an ability that's generally abandoned after the first two levels) . Also, according 
 to the manual, he's 39. Amber is a 27-year-old hulking cyborg who is immune to environmental hazards 
 such as fire, steam, and electricity. The team's engineer, Andre (32 years old) , can repair broken 
 equipment by successfully completing a minigame that's a lot like the swing meter in golf simulations -- you 
 have to press the mouse button just as the cursor hits the sweet spot on a slider bar. Finally, 
 the baby of the group, 20-year-old Minoko, can hack computer terminals to override security doors 
 and take control of mounted turrets. You also have two unofficial members of the team. The first 
 is a small remote-controlled rover that can fit through cracks in walls and maneuver through air 
 ducts to reach spots the officers can't. The second is a flying metal ball. It's a lot like the 
 one made famous by the Phantasm movies, only with a camera mounted in place of Phantasm's blood-draining 
 suction drill. Thanks to what may be an oversight in the manual, the ball's age is unknown, but 
 it's definitely fast moving and really fun to fly.           Each character has unique skills that 
 will be required to get past obstacles.    

  The game's puzzles are actually made up of a series of environmental exploration and manipulation 
 tasks. For instance, as one level starts, a bridge collapses, separating the team into two groups 
 of two. Using their various skills at different points, you must figure out how to reunite the 
 characters by navigating the level. The puzzle challenges are strictly linear and don't allow for 
 much, if any, improvisation. But their logical construction -- arising from the physical layout of 
 the environment -- makes them seem much more satisfying than the nonsensical puzzles found in many 
 traditional adventure games. Success feels like the result of actual exploration rather than an 
 arbitrary uncovering of some absurd sequence of pre-scripted events.   

  The exploration puzzles are bolstered by the fact that the levels are generally interesting. Many 
 of the environments contain impressively huge vertical expanses that act as a consistent reminder 
 that the city extends far above and below your current position. Project Eden is being released 
 on the PlayStation 2 as well, and, while the architecture is suitably complex, the texture work 
 appears to be geared toward a console rather than the PC. Textures that look fine on a fuzzy television 
 seem blurry when viewed on a high-resolution monitor.    

 Combat was not implemented as well as the puzzles. Although you're commanding a squad, squad tactics 
 are not required. Every fight basically boils down to putting the cursor over an enemy and pressing 
 the mouse button until something -- either you or it -- dies. There are several weapons available, 
 most with two modes of fire, but for the most part, you can simply make do with the standard pulse 
 gun. The enemies, especially the gang members in the game's first third, appear to be capable of 
 a range of behaviors, such as ducking, looking for cover, and retreating. But these actions seem 
 to occur randomly rather than as a reaction to anything you're doing. The later enemies, a series 
 of morphing crossbreed species straight out of John Carpenter's  The Thing , generally tend to 
 run right at you.           Project Eden's combat is shallow and rather pointless...    

  Regeneration stations are scattered throughout each level. When a character is killed, he or she 
 is reconstituted at the last point passed. Generally, these points are a short jog from the battle. 
 Since you're reincarnated with full health, while enemies retain the damage you've dealt to them, 
 this system effectively removes any penalty for death, which makes combat even more irrelevant 
 and unsatisfying than it would be otherwise.   

  Unlike most shooters, where dying comes at some kind of cost, you rarely have to reload a saved 
 game while actively playing Project Eden. That's actually too bad, since Project Eden has set a 
 record for reload speed that will never be broken, because it's instantaneous. How the developers 
 managed this feat is a mystery, but there it is -- the world's fastest, most unintrusive quick load 
 feature.   

  A complete set of multiplayer options is included. There's no built-in server browser, though there 
 is GameSpy support for Project Eden. Unfortunately, the combat that was lackluster in the single-player 
 campaign doesn't get any better in the deathmatch and capture-the-flag modes. A rover racing game 
 is also included, but there's only one track for it, and it's more of a novelty than something 
 you're likely to play more than a couple of times.           ... but the environmental puzzles are 
 interesting and rewarding.    

  More intriguingly, the single-player campaign can be played cooperatively. The heavy exploration 
 elements and deliberate pacing of the game would seem to make it best suited to one player at a 
 time, but if you have several patient friends, it could be an enjoyable adventure. However, "could" 
 is the operative word here since, as released, Project Eden contains a bug that makes loading saved 
 multiplayer games impossible. So unless you're planning to play all 30 hours in one sitting as 
 a college prank or something, you're going to have to wait for a patch before tackling this mode. 
   

  The logical environment-based puzzles in Project Eden represent what may be the best hope for the 
 continuing evolution of adventure games. While the game doesn't reach the high-water mark recently 
 set by the haunting, atmospheric ICO on the PlayStation 2, it's still much, much better than most 
 other recent entries in the action-adventure genre such as Anne McCaffery's Dragonriders of Pern, 
 Anne McCaffery's Freedom: First Resistance, and the Anne McCaffery-unaffiliated Planet of the Apes. 
 The pleasure you'll get from the exploration elements makes up for the deficiencies in the combat 
 system. If the developers had managed to nail both, though, Project Eden might have been exceptional 
 rather than merely good.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (6 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Antrikshy
Rating: 10
Date: May 25, 2008 12:08 am PT
Review:  This was a great game! It was so difficult that I could never have completed it without a walkthrough. 
 It is amazing! I cannot describe it! It is the best game I've played. 
  Some scenes are startling. Some are really easy. The best level was Ground Zero and the easiest 
 was Century Plaza. The most difficult was inarguably SkyTran. I haven't completed it yet, I have 
 reached almost the end of Underground. That makes the last level left to beat. 
  The graphics are amazing. The torch colour, etc. I have the PC (English) version and I just love 
 it! The sounds, the controls... It was truly great, I keep saying.
  The glitches? Well, there weren't many that happened to me. It is possible to do almost whatever 
 you can in real life. The only big problem is that we cannot jump. Not even a bit. That's a great 
 drawback. There should've been more cells available (or recharge points) in the SkyTran level. 
 It is really hard to beat if we're not ready for it. If you're not using a guide or a walkthrough, 
 you will lose in that level.
  Overall, I give full marks to the game. Believe me, I rarely do that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kain1995
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 26, 2008 6:27 am PT
Review:  Project Eden is a logical TPS, or something like that, in which you control four members of an 
 organisation named UPA. Each member has its own unique abilities.
  Andre can repair broken mechanisms, Minoko can operate computers, Amber is the only one who can 
 withstand hazardous environments, such as flames, hazardous gases and high voltages.
  The other black guy, whose name I don't know, is required for many interviews with main suspect 
 and other people. You have to use all of the abilities to pass the level, unless you want to die:
 
  
  FEATURES:
  * Four characters with unique abilities which you have to use to pass a level.
  * Many complex 
 levels, which will make you think.
  * Interesting system of getting objectives.
  
  Unfortunately, there are not many good features, so this game may be put in the file "Average".
 
  
  Review written by: Kain1995 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackcee
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 19, 2008 3:02 am PT
Review:  This game is kool as hell. I think this title is long over due for a re-do.
  Characters and the space they occupy are great.
  The new games are kool, but remake this - instant 
 wonderment.
  The levels on this old female dog are well layed and the story pushes well.
  I love the FPS/3PS/MCP (multi controlled player) aspect of solving multi layered puzzles) Ability 
 where ability is needed,.. you don't run around "hacking" the air with the computer literate one 
 of the bunch. She shoots and mows down foes if needed.
  Likewise, your brawn/assault figures never push up on a console to splice a connection to keep 
 you going through the story.
  The puzzles need puzzle solving characters, forcing you to rely on placement of the characters 
 in a logical setup. (sometimes "B" does come before"A")
  or illogical. Depending on how you look at it.
  All-in-all, this is one game I would try to find/play.
 
  dated ,.... yes.
  fun,... hell yeah.
  gfx,.... ur rig can handle this one.
  If you can still find the big box ,... buy it!
  
  I say make a part 2-3-4!
  
  good games. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beastiebite
Rating: 4.3
Date: Feb 11, 2006 7:10 am PT
Review:  i didn't get very far at all in this game. its graphics were the only half good thing in it but 
 every thing else was horrible. game play was slow. i also disliked how and it took for ever to 
 find out what little thing you forgot to do..... until the game just dropped off and I couldn't 
 find out what next to do because their was nothing new that the game told me to do soo i never 
 got past the 1st mission it looks like eidos could have done a better on this one!!! i should not 
 have bough this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Payasoplas
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 7, 2005 7:46 am PT
Review:  I've been expecting this game since it was announced for the Dreamcast, then it was cancelled and 
 released for the PS2 and PC, but couldn't play it until now in 2005 because I have no PS2 and in 
 2001 my PC couldn't handle it, but now I finally found a copy of this game for less than $50 Mexican 
 pesos (less than $5 usd) and have a PC that can handle this game with no problems.
  
  The bad things about the game are only a few but they are very annoying, first the frame rate, 
 in some parts the game slows down drastically, the game crashes a lot and resets my computer with 
 no reason and the patches only do 2 things 1. nothing and 2. nothing, the game has joystick support 
 but it's awful, and the sound is good, but whenever there are dialogues the game loads them form 
 the CD and stops a little.
  
  Those are the bad things, the good things are that this game has the greatest logical puzzles ever, 
 80% of the game is about solving puzzles and exploration of the areas, the environments are dark 
 and sometimes as scary as Silent Hill.
  
  Tha action parts are very intense, the enemies are hard, the puzzles are even harder simply because 
 in the game nobody gives you any clues about what to do, you have to observe the environment closely 
 if you want to solve the puzzles.
  
  I f you really want to test your brain skills and have some action at te same time, buy this game 
 you won't regret
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tmasri
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 6, 2005 9:13 am PT
Review:  This is a game that makes you think and use team mates to open doors and puzzles. The Puzzles are 
 not that hard, yet they take a little thinking to do.
  
  The fighting is striktly easy. You never totally die. 
  Graphics are O. K but even after 3 years, 
 this game is still highly playable becasue of the puzzles and Excellent Level Designs . The Levels 
 are quite extraordinary. You often find your teammates on opposite sides and you can see each other 
 with each team mates eyes. Other gadgets are also great like a flying cam and a rover.
  
  This is an action / adventure / role playing game. Loved every minute of it. Excellent Game. Highly 
 recommended. Won't be diapponted !
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
