-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Project IGI: I'm Going In
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/projectigiimgoingin/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec 22, 2000
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.5
Critic Score: 7.3, 31 Review (s)
User Score: 7.9, 695 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Eidos Interactive
Developer: Innerloop
Genre: Modern Tactical Shooter
Date:     Dec 15, 2000 &raquo;  
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
It features a blend of stealth, covert surveillance, and high-powered firefights at secret military 
 bases, though the game also has several significant shortcomings. 

 The awkwardly named Project IGI: I'm Going In follows in the trend of the Rainbow Six series, the 
 Delta Force series, and SWAT 3. It eschews the outlandish futuristic weapons and imaginary settings 
 of many traditional shooters and focuses instead on contemporary realism. In the game, you play 
 as David Llewelyn Jones, a former Special Air Service member who now works as a freelance operative 
 for both the British and American governments. The game features a blend of stealth, covert surveillance, 
 and high-powered firefights at secret military bases, and it has much of the thrill and daring 
 of the James Bond films of the late Cold War era. But it also has several significant shortcomings. 
   

  In Project IGI, your mission is to help retrieve a stolen nuclear warhead and prevent an act of 
 nuclear terrorism. The action begins in the former Soviet Union, and your first goal is to rescue 
 a contact who has vital information about the nuke and who is being held and tortured at a military 
 airfield in Estonia. The narrative is primarily told through in-engine cutscenes at the beginning 
 or end of each mission, and they're visually stylish - their dramatic camera angles and lighting 
 effects approach film quality at times, though the flat dialogue can be a bit tedious and the cast 
 of characters isn't very interesting. The tone of the missions tends to be realistic: While you're 
 a skilled agent, you're just one man - not a one-man army. As such, you'll need to do a lot of 
 creeping through the shadows, sneaking around security cameras, hacking computers to deactivate 
 surveillance systems, and using binoculars to scout the area. When you run into the inevitable 
 confrontation with guards, fast and furious firefights ensue. The game's general emphasis on realism 
 means you'll need quick reflexes: Even if he's wearing body armor, a few shots can still put a 
 painful end to the hero's career. You can restore health only by grabbing a medical kit from an 
 infirmary - if there even is one in the area.   

  Project IGI is a strictly single-player game with 14 missions that are often large and complex, 
 but they're divided into smaller, more manageable objectives. Unfortunately, there's no way to 
 save your game during a mission, and even on the lowest difficulty setting, some missions can be 
 quite hard, and they will inevitably require you to restart from scratch a number of times before 
 you achieve success. Since you'll typically be infiltrating military installations, you'll run 
 into swarms of guards, many of whom stand waiting in towers with their sniper rifles. Death awaits 
 at every corner. The abundance of guards is necessary because the game's enemy artificial intelligence 
 is spotty if not downright poor, as enemies sometimes stand obliviously when you kill one of their 
 comrades, who is only a few feet in front of them. Also, the game sometimes cheats by making guards 
 appear out of thin air or from buildings that you've already cleared.   

  During missions, you'll have access to a large arsenal of weapons, some of which you're equipped 
 with at the start of the missions, and many of which you pick up from dead guards. They run the 
 gamut from a combat knife for silent kills to antitank weapons for the occasional armored fighting 
 vehicle. Other real-world weapons in the game include the Glock 17, Desert Eagle, MP5, M16 A2, 
 Minimi, Spas 12, Uzi, Pancor Jackhammer automatic shotgun, Dragunov sniper rifle, and others, along 
 with flashbang and fragmentation grenades. Weapon physics are generally believable: Automatic weapons 
 have a noticeable kick that hinders your aim, and bullets will penetrate walls and doors of varying 
 material and thickness depending on the caliber or muzzle velocity of the gun.   

  Since much of the game is about stealth and careful observation, you'll get to use some clever 
 gadgets in addition to your weapons. Your binoculars have night vision and a digital compass, and 
 they smoothly zoom out to very long ranges. You also have a PDA that lists your mission objectives 
 and visually keys them with numbers to a live satellite video reconnaissance feed. You can zoom 
 and pan the readout, and since it's shown in real time, you can actually watch guards advance and 
 attack you if you neglect to turn off the PDA map at an inopportune time. The PDA also logs your 
 communications, which include both status reports and tips from Anya, your advisor back at headquarters 
 who's watching your progress. Frequently, reports from Anya, including those that advance the game's 
 plot, appear when you're busy avoiding or fighting guards, so the ability to read them later on 
 your PDA helps make up for that flaw.    

 Another flaw in the game is the way you manipulate or interact with certain objects. When you stand 
 next to an object you can use, you'll see an icon light up at the bottom of the screen. During 
 time-consuming actions like hacking a computer or climbing a ladder, the game switches from first- 
 to third-person view, which can seem awkward initially. However, this lets you retain situational 
 awareness during these times since you can pan the camera in all directions with the mouse. You 
 do need to precisely line yourself up with an object to manipulate it in the first place, which 
 can result in your death if you need to make a quick escape.   

  Despite the odd perspective switching, the graphics overall are very good. Textures are highly 
 detailed (albeit dully colored) , varied ambient lighting depicts different times of day and atmospheric 
 conditions vividly, and weapon models and skins are convincing. Weapons interact visually with 
 the environment too, and they will shatter glass and leave bullet holes in walls for the duration 
 of a mission. When you fire at wood or other light materials, shards and splinters fly. Some of 
 the weapon effects are also quite graphic: You'll see blood spatter on walls during close-quarters 
 firefights, and sometimes even pieces of cranium fly when you snipe someone in the head. Oddly, 
 the bodies of dead guards simply vanish after a few seconds. Some of the effects are less gruesome 
 but still memorable, such as the occasional static on your PDA as you watch the live satellite 
 imagery and the dynamic displays on your binoculars.   

  The vast outdoor environments really steal the show in Project IGI. Some design concepts for the 
 proprietary 3D engine came from Innerloop's flight simulator, Joint Strike Fighter - and it shows. 
 Early in the game, you'll infiltrate a military airbase with a seemingly endless runway, a geodesic 
 radar dome, huge hangars with parked fighter jets, troop barracks, and so on, all of which are 
 surrounded by realistically scaled and subtly textured hills and mountains. This huge visual scope 
 is really immersive and memorable, especially since the outdoor terrain is so well textured. By 
 contrast, the indoor environments in the game tend to be repetitive and forgettable. Also, because 
 of the huge areas, you'll have to do lots of laborious running.   

  The sound compares favorably with the graphics - it is sometimes even better. The musical score, 
 while hardly outstanding, is nevertheless well crafted, and its tense mood complements the action 
 of the game well. Voiceovers are competent but bland, and Russian or Estonian guards will shout 
 at you in English instead of their native tongues. The sound effects suffer none of the weaknesses 
 of the dialogue; in fact, they're often spectacular. Each weapon has a convincing and vivid set 
 of sounds, and explosions are suitably loud. Footsteps alter according to the surface on which 
 you're walking and whether or not you're running or padding softly. The environmental sounds are 
 superb - gates grind, motors hum, security cameras beep, and elevators chime as they reach a new 
 floor. Intermittent thunder will boom during a rainstorm, and depending on what type of roof you're 
 under, the rain alters from muffled tapping on wood to loud drumming on a sheet metal overhang. 
 The sound is especially well done during cutscenes - for instance, helicopter rotors nearly drown 
 out characters' radio communications, and you can hear details like the canopy lowering on a Russian 
 fighter as you make off with it.   

  While none of the individual elements of Project IGI are particularly original, they're meshed 
 together very well. The missions feature a finely paced balance between tense stealth and dramatic 
 combat. By mixing military firefights with careful sneaking, the game manages to be entertaining 
 overall, and the environments are very convincing. Still, the game has problems that can't be overlooked, 
 such as the lack of midmission saves, the weak artificial intelligence, and a general lack of interesting 
 or memorable characters, including the one you play. Also, while you can approach each mission 
 slightly differently, there's only so much variety that each affords, and there are no multiplayer 
 modes or level editor. So, despite the long and complex missions, the game's replay value is really 
 limited. Still, as a single-player shooter with a traditional progressive mission structure set 
 in realistic and memorable environments, Project IGI is a fun, if flawed, action game.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (16 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: DoctorBedlam
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 8, 2008 9:03 am PT
Review:  Big fan of shooters? Dig PC gaming?
  
  Pick this release up with haste.
  
  Feeling sneaky? Utilize stealth to infiltrate and destroy your enemy from within. But beware as 
 the AI is much more cunning and ruthless than most you've encountered.
  
  Feeling itchy on the trigger? Blast your way through the enemy ranks and dominate their territory-as 
 long as you're comfortable with bullets strafing your every move.
  
  In numerous engagements with the enemy the player might find themselves blanketed by gunfire-just 
 when you thought it was safe, but you forgot to check that corner didn't you?
  
  Personally, this game shines in many regions.
  
  Level design, AI, mission objectives, gunplay, 
 character movement, music, sound effects, etc. just beam creativity. Considering the date of this 
 games release (2000) it stands as a stepping stone, a bridge to the new generation of gaming that 
 we are now a part of.
  
  Fans of METAL GEAR, SOCOM and GHOST RECON will definately feel the warmth in their gamer heart 
 that this game is capable of generating. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jakednb
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 24, 2008 10:22 am PT
Review:  We're talking now about an old game, years of first person/strategy type shooters have passed, 
 many games came out stretching the technology and game play far beyond IGI, however all that considered, 
 this is still a must.
  
  Ambient sounds and music, every thing is still and quiet in the eastern front, except you, moving 
 threw the bushes to your next kill, all very dramatic, very real. This is the world of IGI, switching 
 alarms off, killing guards, and escaping quickly.
  
  Sounds:
  amazing music and atmosphere sounds.
  
  Graphics:
  given the age of this game, graphics are 
 amazing, and not that bad even in today's standards.
  
  Game play:
  missions are very simple and repetitive, its all basically getting in an enemy compound killing 
 some guards shutting something on or off, and getting out. 
  
  You really get the feel with this one, where a lot of other games fail, your there.
  
  In conclusion, 
 I would probably not recommend this game at this point in history, but if you've got it your lucky 
 to have played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gumeh
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 12, 2008 9:36 am PT
Review:  =preview=
  
  similar with james bond agent, with variety mission, a few weapons, and the ebst enemy AI.
  
 
  =Gameplay=
  
  you act as a english agent who fall down to back off nuclear warhead missile which stolen by soviet. 
 take on cold war the IGI have a 14 mission, in each mission u msut find the objective to end this 
 mission. like others FPS game u can shoot, atealth, and supressed enemy with ur weapons. there 
 are many weapon u can take on, such as mp5-sd, m16A2, jackhammer, glock 17, desert eagle, dragunov, 
 ak-47, spass 12, LAW 80, uzi, minimi, and also add on to ur supply like flashbang and frag greenades. 
 enemy AI it's very improvement. u will die in second if u not kill them stealthly. with various 
 mission and with anya who guiding u to find a objetive. but not check point or u can't save ur 
 game, so keep ur blood and ammo.
  
  =graphics=
  
  not really2 good, but enough to play with high resolution. not flickr, but they are a few minor 
 bugs. the environment details is good to explore. but no map and sign to find ur objective. the 
 sound of game very impressive. ur ear will not sick to hear that. very friendly sound. yeah..
 
  
  =all performance=
  
  much better than delta force series. but it's very hard game u will die often at first u play. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: titanic100
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 13, 2008 8:33 am PT
Review:  Project IGI
  
  Well what can I say about project IGI it is a very good game it is brilliant The weapons in this 
 game are real weapons from the Uzi 9mm to a M16 machine gun 
  
  The graphics Well the graphics are very good and the quality of them is good and when you are shot 
 and you die some blood comes out and that will indicate where you have been shot and died.
  
  The sound The sound quality of this game is very good and the gun shots are perfect and when 
 you jump you can hear your character jumping and when he lands on the ground. The guns sounds are 
 very good and you can hear them when they go off from your enemies
  
  So I know that this game is old but I still say that it is the best first person shooter game I 
 played and I am going to install it again in my pc and play it again some day. 
  
  So I would say buy this game it is very good and I am sure you will enjoy it. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: majesticcryx
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 1, 2007 3:34 am PT
Review:  Project I. G. I. is the FPS with stealth tactics. The game got good story and mixed missions, thats 
 why is gameplay much more exciting. The graphic is beautiful, but there is a few bad things about 
 it. First are the colours, the colour of grass, trees... is like it&acute; s been washed and sometimes 
 you can see under the ground (bug) ... The sound and the music are excellent. In the game you got 
 a big list of good weapons (from Ak&acute; s, M16, Uzi, Dragunov and much more) . The gameplay is amazing. You 
 are an special commando of British intelligence agency and you are put under the great danger. Very 
 exciting. The game would be better if there were some things more (Like vehicles, more soldiers (and 
 better AI) and a few members of yours) . But the game is worth playing, if you love FPS.
  
  Graphic: Beautiful, but colors are washed.
  
  Sound: Sound and music are ok, but the game got steel 
 some problems.
  
  Gameplay: Excellent gameplay, expectingly with snipe rifle (haha) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: filaria
Rating: 7.1
Date: Jun 12, 2007 9:49 pm PT
Review:  What in the world was I thinking when I thought-Lets try IGI? It is an extremely bogus, getting 
 on your nerve type of game. YOU EVEN NEITHER CAN SAVE NOR ARE THERE AUTOSAVES ANYWHERE!!!! THE 
 PRiNCIPLE OF IGI -After long hours of toil and sweat when you'd finally reach the end of the level, 
 you'd get thrilled-at last it is over but then u realize u didn't notice that enemy round the corner 
 with a spaz-12 who shot u dead into hell and from there right back to the beginning of the level 
 so that u can do all that u did all over again, u'd curse the game and repeat and die and repeat 
 and die and repeat and die and repeat........ then finally u'd get over with it and repeat the same 
 procedure 11 more times. This doesn't apply to every one but it is possible. I suffered the die 
 and repeat syndrome in the last level most. IGI has a large Bank of weapons, out of them the dragunov 
 is unspokenly the best followed by the AK-47 which serves both purposes of close range as well 
 as long range combat. The Jackhammer is probably the deadliest at short range and in closed areas 
 .Ak-47 acts very well as a sniper substitute when coupled with the binocs. The health replenishing 
 syringe really sucks. Maybe the developers thought of trying something new instead of large boxes 
 with the first aid symbols on them, but it didnt work out that well. It restores your health very 
 slowly; which has been redeemed in IGI 2 but sadly I could find the syringe one out of 20 some 
 times in the sequel. One good thing about the game is the scale of the levels. Probably one of 
 the games containing large levels is IGI. You'll have to be wary of the large no. of cameras and 
 alarms all over the levels. Graphics are not all that bad but not like something u could stand 
 and stare at and drool all over your keyboard. Sound is again good not exactly marvellous. Sometimes 
 you'll come across reinforcement guard quarters spawning infinite no. of enemies. There are no 
 vehicles to drive which should have been there 'cause there were plenty of tanks in the border 
 crossing level that were just lying empty. If somehow one could save then the game probably would 
 have been a lot better. The game does present some challenging missions. The game is all fun till 
 u die 3-4 times and repeat the same level over and over again. It's good if u can use stealth (?) 
 in the game but it's better to get rid of all your enemies to avoid any nasty surprises. Proximity 
 mines are fun and necessary to use at some places. The AI can be deadly if they some how are able 
 to get a couple of shots to your head. There are some rather peculiar situations I came across-some 
 enemies can finish u off in a single shot even if your health is near full while others can't even 
 hit u at close range. If one is able to play the game right, it's short else long. If u are very 
 impatient and have anger management problems, I recommend closing the game after dying once or 
 rather dont play it, you'd be better playing any other game again and again than playing this 
 coz after u complete it the first thing you'd want to do is never to play it again at least for 
 a year or so. What the S*** is wrong with this game?!! -Me after dying for the tenth time on the 
 last level. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frag_1
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jun 12, 2007 2:28 pm PT
Review:  Project IGI: I'm Going In is one of the first few 3-D FPS for the PC's that attained acclaim for 
 its intense storyline and wide variety of weapons. It popularized the concept of stealth into gameplay. 
 It is one of the only few First Person Stealth Shooters in which the player can keep as many weapons 
 as he wants at a time.
  
  The game features stealth but a player can easily go through levels without using much stealth. 
 We play as David Jones, IGI whose mission is to procure the Nuclear Warhead in the control of Priboi, 
 an international arms dealer. The game has better graphics at higher resolutions and is more enjoyable 
 with higher graphics and the game has good graphics for its time. The weapons of the game have 
 been well modeled and are quite realistic. The game's storyline is solid and is one of the best 
 features in the game and it helps to go through the game. I am total fan of IGI's wide arsenal 
 of weapons especially the Jackhammer and the Dragunov Sniper Rifle. The game starts getting tougher 
 after level 3 where the game requires stealth. The game more difficult later because of the security 
 cameras being at oddly unavoidable positions sometimes. There are also machine gun turrets that 
 get activated and shoot enemy on sight in the final levels. The cut scenes are also quite interesting 
 and there are times you will benefit from watching them as the mission data presented provide useful 
 information about how to go through the mission. The map computer and binoculars in the game come 
 in very handy and are absolutely essential to complete the missions
  
  The game has many shortcomings and glitches inspite of the many merits. It has quite a lack of 
 proper calibration in the recoil of the weapons. The game also has an immense lack of the range 
 and effectiveness of weapons. The bullets fired can go to a huge distance like a sniper rifle ammo. 
 For example, an AK 47 or an MP5 can be used to kill enemies at large distances using binoculars 
 for aiming and firing the weapon in short bursts. The game also has a very big glitch in which, 
 in some missions there are unlimited backup soldiers coming from the barracks which is really weird. 
 The game also has a severe glitch when it comes to the cameras which see you at oddly huge distances 
 in some missions. The game lacks proper stability and its save system is the worst because the 
 game cannot be saved at certain positions in between the missions and this makes completing the 
 missions a very difficult task even though that makes the game a lot more challenging. The lack 
 of proper system for saving the game is the biggest drawback in the game.
  
  Even though the game is rock solid but due to its major flaw in the games' save system it makes 
 the game a lot more boring and makes it very frustrating after a while to be playing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hitman047m4
Rating: 7.8
Date: Feb 4, 2007 12:58 pm PT
Review:  I got this game on a value sale along with the Tomb Raider 3; at the time I got this game, I only 
 had a few PC games, and among them were the first two Delta Force which are two great titles and 
 they were the only Modern Tactical Shooter that I owned back them because I was more into RTS and 
 puzzle and adventure games than any other genre. At first I didn't like very much this title and 
 ended up uninstalling the game right away, I don't know why or I can't remember the reason, but 
 I honestly did uninstalled. After I finished a couple of my games and giving a rest to them, and 
 having Project I. G. I. getting dust, I decided to give the game a second try, and I didn't regret 
 it. You play a SAS agent on a mission to get your hands on a big arms dealer, deep inside on the 
 Russian territory and so on... One of the features that I loved about it were the looks and sounds 
 of the weapons: the Glock 17, MP5SD3, M16A2/M203, AK47, the SVD Dragunov, SPAS12, Mk3A1 Jackhammer, 
 M249 Minimi, just to name a few lol, that the main character carries throughout the game... wow... the 
 realistic, or at least the amazing quality of the sounds that the all the weapons made, the recoil 
 of them... I had a lot of fun and enjoyment shooting with the Dragunov rifle every time it was on 
 the mission or the chances of carrying two Uzis. I loved the whole story, plot and missions of 
 it and how at least they tried to keep the game as real as possible carrying a limited amount of 
 ammo, even that contradictory to that you could carry more weapons than you can... but on the other 
 side of the coin, the game had some problems with the A. I. and sometime you ended up shooting or 
 wasting ammo on an enemy on places were normally or realistically all you needed was one round... and 
 another big downfall that it had was the lack of online gaming; but overall its downfalls at least 
 do not overshadow this game making it a surprisingly for me, a solid game! 4/5... The HITMAN has 
 spoken! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: samcerulean
Rating: 8.1
Date: Nov 22, 2006 2:58 am PT
Review:  Their are elements of game play in this game which inspire me as a gamer which are still not included 
 in games today. This game may not have the graphics of the psychics engine but they do grasp that 
 feel of a realistic atmosphere which makes every game a great success. This game feature amazing 
 panoramic landscapes which seem endless. The layout of the maps really make it and how you use 
 it to your advantage. This game requires you to use your imagination and attention to detail; to 
 recognise potential, routes for stealthiness and infiltration. You also have to have you wits about 
 you and ready for an enemy around every corner, but also you have to take in to account the AI's 
 huge field of view from high places. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mortaris
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jun 16, 2006 12:04 pm PT
Review:  Project I. G. I. (which stands for Im going in) lets you play as David Jones, an freelance operative 
 that has to recover a stolen nuclear warhead.
  Unlike many other First-Person-Shooters, Project I. G. I. tries to be realistic. You die from only 
 a few shots, for example. There are no futuristic levels or weapons to be found here.
  
  A short time after starting the first level (to a total of 14 missions) youll soon notice that 
 all the movement and the weapons feel quite realistic. Besides all kinds of different (really existing) 
 weapons, you have some other gadgets in your inventory that help you to survive. One of your most 
 useful gadgets are the binoculars, which enable you to see enemies from a long distance. You also 
 have a useful menu system where you can find you current mission objectives and can access a map 
 of the level you are in.
  From time to time you also get some messages and status reports from an advisor in your headquarters 
 that can be reviewed in the menu.
  
  In this game you are encouraged to play stealthy. Well, to be honest, you dont really have another 
 choice: Blindly running into combat will let you certainly die. 
  The areas that you have to walk through are huge and give the game a more realistic feel to it.
 
  
  While the outdoor graphics really look good (especially because you can look AND GO very, very, 
 very far) , everything indoors looks too simple and un-detailed.
  The terrain has some good textures to it and makes the huge areas the one thing that you will remember 
 first when thinking about this FPS.
  Still, as already mentioned, the overall graphics are just lacking a lot of details.
  
  The 
 music fits well but isnt something very special. The sound, on the other hand, is excellent. All 
 the weapons sound real; the environmental sounds (like rain dropping on the ceiling) are also very 
 well made; a lot of details can be heard that give the game a much better feel to it.
  The voice acting is probably not as good as it could have been, but its not that important in 
 this game, anyway.
  
  Project I. G. I would have been a really great game if it werent for some rather big issues.
  
 Theres no way to save during a mission. Since those usually take a long time to complete, it can 
 become frustrating if you have to start over the whole mission again and again.
  Another thing is that the difficulty seems unbalanced. Sometimes its too easy (often because of 
 the weak enemies AI) , at other times it becomes very hard.
  Finally, the game has nothing to offer once you played through it once.
  
  Those issues aside 
 and you have a good FPS can be easily recommended to anyone who likes that genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alex-AcE
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 5, 2006 1:01 pm PT
Review:  Was and is great for it's time. The maps are huge and occupy a very small place, but all the game 
 occupy 476Mb. The game have cool softwares to edit the game. I'm looking for the game editor (software) , 
 to create my own IGI. I didn't find it and I think: it doesn't exist, perhaps.
  I heard : Tomb Raider was the first 3D game publoshed in 1994 or 1996, I don't know clearly this. 
 Project IGI is cool, I have it and I have IGI 2 too.
  I think you understand what I wrote because I leave in Romania and I don't know very good english.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: -_locky_-
Rating: 6.2
Date: Apr 3, 2006 2:32 am PT
Review:  IGI is a game I played quite a while ago and I thought I should rate it coz I'm people care what 
 I think of it. HA, ye right.
  
  Anyway you play as David Jones who works for a agency who needs to stop a stolen nuke head from 
 being launched. It seems like any other late 90's game on terrorism.
  
  The graphics are bad but good for it's time with chunky mountains and people with distorted faces 
 but it's nothing different then any other game of that time.
  
  The sound I like, the theme song is soooooo awesome and to this day I like it. The in game music 
 is alright too and the voices are done well.
  
  the gameplay, well, you can pick up any and as much guns as you want and there are some great guns 
 there like jackhammers and spas-12's. You can't save during a mission which can be very frustrating 
 and you'll find yourself repeating the first part of any level besides the first few alot.
  
  Basically this game is old skool. Right to the bone, made ages ago and was like ages ago. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raghav2005
Rating: 6.2
Date: Dec 3, 2005 9:28 am PT
Review:  Project IGI is a fair game... it doesnt have a good background of a shootout game.. some missions 
 are very complex and the objectives are not that challenging... The game really lacks substance.. but 
 it still hovers on some of its own new and unique features..
  
  The game is just a sequence of missions without much narration.... the game has many twists and 
 turns... there is same kind of action such as planting bombs etc. in almost all levels... tanks helicopters 
 and on ground men... nothing special can be found in here...
  
  Graphics and sound are good.. but the game still lacks on substance... many room textures are repeated 
 and this doesnt give the gamer a sense of something new in each level... after 4 or 5 stages the 
 game turns out to be easy... but not the last as it happens in every game.. on the whole it isnt 
 that worth playing... i would rather opt for other games like max payne ... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mithu1234
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 3, 2005 3:04 pm PT
Review:  this was the first game i tried my hand on and this FPS didnot disappoint me. a good storyline, cool 
 weapons and the ability to innovate and try out new possibilities of both combat and escape just 
 make it a happening game.
  
  plus points: weapons (i liked jackhammer the most) , storyline, the ability to both attack in an all 
 out fashion or employ stealth, the satisfaction u get in completing missions, particularly the last 
 one, when the hero is surrounded all over by enemies with an injured comrade anya, but refuses to 
 relent and says"i am going in".
  
  minus points: dull background sound, low AI intelligence, no medals or recognitions like medal of 
 honour, quake -3, no significant replay value for most people who tried it ,except me of course.
 
  
  OVERALL: good value for one's money, plz try it if u are new to this genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Royas
Rating: 5.9
Date: Aug 23, 2004 11:56 pm PT
Review:  I really enjoy the basic game here. Nothing like a good mix of sneaking, shooting and sniping to 
 get the ol' blood flowiing! And these are things this game delivers. Fast action, creeping about, 
 multiple weapons, not a bad combination. And the game looks good, too. The graphics are clean and 
 don't bog down the system even at the highest settings. The sound is also good. Everything is identifiable 
 by sound, and there are no real weak points here.
  
  But now I get to the problem, and for me it's a big one. No in level saves. No in-mission checkpoints. 
 As in, if you die (and you will, often) you get to replay the entire level all... over... again. 
 And again. And again. And... well, you get the general picture. This one thing, this single design 
 choice completely ruined the game for me. Yes, there was an increase in tension since I couldn't 
 just quicksave before a battle, but for crying out loud! Give us some checkpoints or something! 
 If I want that level of tension, I just won't save, but give me the option. The sheer frustration 
 of this one thing has made saving a dealbreaker for me in future games. No saves? No sale. Period.
 
  
  This is a good shooter/sneaker hybrid type. Nothing all that innovative, but it has the potential 
 to be a lot of fun, as long as you don't mind the lack of saves. If that's a problem for you, I'd 
 suggest you give this game a pass. If not, enjoy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Padrino
Rating: 8.2
Date: Apr 5, 2003 7:42 pm PT
Review:  Intro
  -----
  This game is like a Die-Hard movie. If you start to think about the "realism" you will hate it. 
 The realism is just not there. You can s****e error-free from across the state. You always have 
 a satellite tell you where everything is (sort of like MGS radar but it only works outside) . You 
 can take out one man talking to another face to face and the other will not even notice? But like 
 a good blockbuster (I'm talking Die-Hard 1 only here) its full of gun toting fun. You get to be 
 a one-man army and sneak, s****e, and blow up your enemy. Cool.
  
  
  The Save Game Debate
  --------------------
  There has been a lot of complaints about the lack 
 of a game save feature and for the most part I disagree. In games that have unlimited saving; I 
 am tempted to save after each tough encounter. IGI does not allow this which does increase the 
 tension (good) . However, some of the levels are very large and can have 4 or more objectives in 
 3 distant locations. If you choose to play using stealth (which is more fun IMO) that can take 
 some serious time. This leads to having to play the same stretch of game over and over (bad) . If 
 the AI was not so predictable you might never be able to finish these levels. But the AI is predictable 
 so after playing a level 4, 5, 10 times, you breeze through the early parts. I must say that a 
 couple of the levels were a torture getting though. But instead of cheating or changing to an easy 
 mode I was compelled to compete them and in the end I had fun doing it. A simple fix would be auto-save 
 more often; after each objective for example. I read an article where it was stated that the developers 
 did not anticipate the levels becoming so big. There may be a fix but unless the games popularity 
 grows, I would not count on it. One last negative was that the buildings, were cut-and-paste into 
 a number of different levels. Each building was well textured and looked and played good but more 
 variety would have gone a long way.
  
  
  What did I think?
  -----------------
  I enjoyed the pacing of the game as well as the mix of stealth and run-and-gun. The graphics engine 
 (with flight sim heritage) was used quite well here. I though the player modeling and guns were 
 very well done. It takes a while to figure out which weapons to use and how the alt fire modes 
 effect them. The outdoor play is a great departure from the claustrophobic interiors of nearly 
 every other FPS. The s****ing was simple but fun and the missions were well laid out. Despite all 
 the fits of frustration at the poor AI, I did want to play it through. I looked at each level as 
 more of a puzzle than a real-life mission and I just enjoyed playing. I give the game 8 out of 
 10 due to the good gameplay and addictive nature of the game.
  
  
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
