-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Project Nomads
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/projectnomads/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov  5, 2002
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.7
Critic Score: 6.7, 18 Review (s)
User Score: 7.3, 88 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: cdv Software
Developer: Radon Labs
Genre: Real-Time Strategy
Date:     Nov 1, 2002
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Though Project Nomads draws inspiration from some truly unique games, the game itself ends up being 
 a fairly generic shooter. 

 CDV's colorful hybrid game Project Nomads features elements from some of the most unique PC games 
 ever produced. It has the backpack-jumping action of Giants: Citizen Kabuto, the third-person real-time 
 strategy-style base building of Sacrifice and Battlezone, and, perhaps strangest of all, the islands-in-the-sky 
 fortresses of the obscure 1997 game NetStorm: Islands at War. But the pieces fit together in a 
 puzzling manner. Though Project Nomads draws inspiration from some truly original games, the game 
 itself ends up being a fairly generic shooter. Once you get past the quirky decor, you'll find 
 a game that's more akin to Incoming (or its recent sequel, Incoming Forces) . In the game, you spend 
 the majority of your time manning turrets and gunning down enemy buildings and units, occasionally 
 jumping into aircraft or running around on foot to the same destructive end.           You'll spend 
 most of your time in a turret.    

 Project Nomads is set in a strange world of floating islands and evil insects. You choose one of 
 three characters -- John, Susie, or Goliath -- and then set out to find the other two, who are captured 
 during the game's opening sequence. At the outset, you will be given an island that will serve 
 as your base. As the game progresses, you'll collect artifacts that let you construct buildings 
 on your island. There are buildings that generate energy (the game's only resource) , hangars that 
 produce bombers and fighters, and turrets that defend you from enemy units. The buildings look 
 distinct for each character, but otherwise the game plays similarly no matter whom you choose. 
 The game's unusual visual design is accompanied by a disjointed and nearly nonsensical fantasy 
 story -- the kind in which strange names, titles, and places are referred to commonly, but never 
 really explained. Not that it matters much. By the time you're told to go to the second level to 
 find the "master builder," you'll know that it just means you need to go shoot a bunch of stuff. 
   

  Project Nomads' real-time strategy elements are limited to building on your island. You don't have 
 much room, but there isn't much in the way of strategy in determining where to put what. Resource 
 collection is likewise not too much of a problem, and once you set up your main power generator, 
 you won't have to think about it too much. If Project Nomads required a bit more strategic planning, 
 it probably would have been much more interesting.   

  The game's action elements are better. Many of your guns will work automatically, and most will 
 be better at shooting down the enemy than you will. You get cannons and guided missiles you can 
 control yourself, and these will be employed to shoot down wave after wave of enemies and destroy 
 their bases once their offensive units are incapacitated.   

  You also have access to fighters and bombers, and these also operate automatically. Or, you can 
 jump in the cockpit and control them yourself. The latter is often a good plan because the artificial 
 intelligence for the aircraft is unreliable at best. For instance, enemy aircraft will often fly 
 right into mountains. You'll see a very clear example of this in one of the few missions that doesn't 
 require you to just shoot and shoot and shoot some more -- a mission in which you must pose as an 
 enemy pilot and follow enemy aircraft in formation. The holes in the aircraft AI are all too apparent 
 in this mission, since other aircraft can and do fly right into you with no concern for anyone's 
 well-being.   

  But at least this mission tries something different. Most of Project Nomads' other missions are 
 just exercises in repetition. You generally play most of the game on your island, shooting at stuff 
 on foot or in turrets, or shooting at stuff using magic spells. Unfortunately, not even magic is 
 interesting in Project Nomads. Each character has a "battle spell," which is just a generic projectile. 
 The enemies you shoot are big insects (almost all of which are identical) , and they leave behind 
 a poison gas that will damage you if you touch it. So the on-foot missions generally boil down 
 to shooting, waiting, or moving, interrupted by the occasional jump over a small chasm.        
    You can control aircraft, or just let them fight on their own.    

 These flaws are unfortunate, because Project Nomads contains bits of real inspiration. Its various 
 elements almost seem to hint at a better game, as if the designers conceived of a great setting 
 and premise but couldn't figure out what to do with them afterward. The game's buildings and island 
 fortresses look good, and some of the aircraft designs are really inventive. The characters are 
 well designed -- most notably the leader of the sentinels, who wouldn't look out of place in one 
 of Shiny's typically bizarre-looking games. Unfortunately, the characters' voices seem like placeholder 
 material, and they don't often match the appearances and personalities of the characters themselves. 
 Luckily, Project Nomads' music is subtle but appropriate, with nice dramatic drum pounding when 
 the action gets warm.   

  And though the action does get warm, it never heats up. Even as a generic action game, Project 
 Nomads is never very exciting. Your automatic weapons can handle most of what's thrown at you, 
 the enemies aren't very smart, and the missions are so repetitive that there are hardly any surprises. 
 It's relatively fun in small doses, but Project Nomads doesn't live up to the potential that its 
 unusual design suggests.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (4 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: xqmxqm
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 10, 2007 9:16 am PT
Review:  I have played this game through and must say that this is really a good one. The story is quite 
 good although also kind of old-fashioned, and the ingame films are pretty wonderful. In the campaign 
 you play a nomad (drifting island's master in a cloud world Aeres) and undertake the task to rescue 
 your captured friendsand of course something more. The graphics are superb even viewed in 2007; 
 in game progress I often do nothing but stand and see the breathtaking cloud ocean, rock islands 
 and poetic huge planets hanging in the sky like full moon of our earth lingering over the horizon 
 in a serene summer night. The sound also does its bit; it is not as great as the graphics but also 
 quite realisticyou can hear the repeating shots of your gunturrets and the disgusting skrit grunts 
 very clearly in the right time. The gameplay is a hybrid of FPS, adventure and building management; 
 the campaign allows you either to command your own turrets to send the enemy to hell, to drive 
 your aircrafts to maneuver through rock labyrinths and shoot apart heavily defended targets, or 
 to venture personally into unknown islands to fight monsters and collect valuable artifacts, and 
 you must keep your battle island in run and build it up bit by bit. To blame the automatic weapon 
 systerms in this game is pointless; in fact, this game somethings goes quite difficult and you 
 can never do without the automatic weaponry. The actual shortcoming of gameplay is you often get 
 stuck in objects when jumping, and you never need to collect any resources to keep your base in 
 good order. What you should care for in island fight is just to keep your lighthouse and big cannon 
 as well as bomber hangar not to go down; other buildings can always be respawned with no cost after 
 the hot battles. This considerably reduces the strategic elements in this game and therefore makes 
 this game like everything but a RTS. In addition, the multiplay part is not as good. There's too 
 few maps and the play types are limited. I think this is a big reason why it never becomes popular. 
 Overall, Project Nomads is a great game and has been seriously underestimated. It represents a 
 good attempt to mix different traditional game types and provide the player a new experienceand 
 to some extent, has made it. I recommend this game to everyone who likes to play various types 
 of games and keeps open-minded to new things. If you have the patience to play a game on despite 
 a bad first 5 minutes impression, you will find it quite interesting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: degoodwin
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 14, 2007 10:25 am PT
Review:  I bought this game at a brilliant price, and I was very impressed. The graphics at first were a 
 bit ropey, but I went to the options I set the resolution to maximum, and that improved it by miles! 
 Overall the gameplay is brilliant, and the quests are fun. The game is basically about 3 nomads 
 who are after some special artefacts, you get to choose which one to play as at the start, the 
 others get captured. The overall mission of the game is to rescue you 2 nomad friends an help other 
 people along the way. I would recommend this game to anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grantcorp
Rating: 8.1
Date: Apr 30, 2006 12:53 pm PT
Review:  As for strange game concepts this one sure is a winner. You play a reckless adventurer travelling 
 around on this island in a "sea of floating rocks". The nonsensical excuse for a story has the 
 usual pitfalls and pointless assignments to give you an excuse for joining a linear campaign in 
 which you primarily get to take your floating island on a rampage through enemy domains. Between 
 missions you'll return to base to pick up some power ups with which to enhance the capabilities 
 of your floating fortress.
  
  You are always represented as a person in the game world, running around your little island and 
 maintaining and improving it. Sometimes the game will stop your island for a third person jump 
 and blast adventure to collect some gizmo or similar. Using the recyclable building blueprints 
 you collect you can change the design of your island at any time (or rebuild buildings left in 
 smoldering ruins after a successful enemy bomber attack) . The mainstay island fights play a bit 
 like naval battleship duels as the floating opponents use gun turrets and a limited air force to 
 dish out the damage.
  
  Game play is very satisfying at first, although a closer look means you will find a few minor niggles, 
 but nothing crucial. Overall this comes highly recommended if you like a mixture of arcade flight 
 sims and third person platform shooters  la Giants. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jet2892
Rating: 3.4
Date: Aug 24, 2005 2:27 pm PT
Review:  wow why was this game ever made? jesus it's so bad seriously. my friend has it and he loves it. 
 i think he's crazy. the gameplay is horrible and bad. all you do is shoot from a turret like 60% 
 of the game. the story is bad. graphics are very bad. good this game is bad. then there's the sound. 
 all i ever hear was the shooting of a turret. the only part why im not giving this game a lower 
 score is because the cutscenes are pretty good. altough not graphically but audibly. serioulsy 
 if any of you people plan or were planning on buying this game do not do it. i repeat do not buy 
 this! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
