-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Pro Race Driver
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/driving/proracedriver/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr  7, 2003
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.1
Critic Score: 7.8, 24 Review (s)
User Score: 7.8, 117 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Codemasters
Genre: Formula One Racing
Date:     Apr 17, 2003 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Pro Race Driver puts drivers in the spotlight without sacrificing exciting ontrack action. 

 
  Most racing games put the emphasis solely on the cars and tracks. But racing fans know that it's 
 also the men behind the machines that make the sport so intriguing. After all, racing isn't just 
 about horsepower, it's also about heroes -- larger-than-life figures like Michael Schumacher and 
 Dale Earnhardt, not to mention the unsung experts behind the scenes who build and keep the cars 
 running. With Pro Race Driver, Codemasters has created a racing game that puts drivers in the spotlight 
 without sacrificing exciting ontrack action.  

          Diversity is one of Pro Race Driver's strengths.    Pro Race Driver isn't a hard-core simulation, 
 but it does let you try out various different racecars in fast-paced, arcade-style competitions 
 that have enough realism to keep things interesting and challenging. The game was released on the 
 PlayStation 2 last fall, and its console origins are apparent in this new PC port, though not always 
 in a good way. Codemasters left the original console game's interface in the PC version, so you 
 have to navigate it with your keyboard instead of your mouse. The game suffers from a number of 
 other faults that marred the generally fine PS2 version, and some of the problems have seemingly 
 gotten worse. Still, whatever its faults, Pro Race Driver can hold its own in many ways, not the 
 least of which is its incorporation of an interesting story.  

  Most racing games offer little to nothing in the way of story or characters. Not so with Pro Race 
 Driver, which features a career mode that focuses on a single fictional driver, Ryan McKane. Pro 
 Race Driver uses the cinematic touches found in other game genres to let you watch and take part 
 in McKane's life in racing. The game opens with a flashback sequence that shows McKane's father -- a 
 legendary driver -- barely winning a race, only to have his car intentionally clipped by a young 
 upstart driver right after crossing the finish line. Young Ryan and his brother look on in horror 
 as their father dies in a fiery wreck.  

  In Pro Race Driver's career mode, you get to lead Ryan McKane in the footsteps of his father and 
 his brother, who's also grown up to be a pro race driver. Through occasional cutscenes, you'll 
 see Ryan join his first team with some help from his brother and then try to live up to the family 
 name. Some of the cutscenes also tie directly into the races instead of just serving as a general 
 framework for the action. If you viciously slam into an opponent during a race, you'll get to watch 
 a nasty exchange of words between the two drivers when the race is finished.  

  While all this could easily have ended up being nothing more than a gimmick, it generally works 
 pretty well. The cutscenes are mostly well written and directed, which makes all the difference. 
 Pro Race Driver does a great job of establishing McKane's character early on, showing you a man 
 brimming with the surly arrogance of youth. Other characters, like his seasoned crew chief and 
 brash manager, also seem unusually realistic for game characters, thanks to their smart and well-delivered 
 dialogue.  

          The hero of our story, Ryan McKane.    The continuing story of McKane's career helps set 
 Pro Race Driver apart, but the story alone is hardly worth buying the game for. You obviously want 
 to have solid racing action, too. Fortunately, Pro Race Driver generally delivers on that front. 
 You'll get to drive 42 different real-world cars (after unlocking them all) , including the Chevrolet 
 Monte Carlo, the MG Lola Le Mans, the Audi TT-R, the Lotus Elise, and the Dodge Viper GTS-R. You'll 
 also get to race on 38 real-world circuits, like Sears Point, Bristol, Monza, and Silverstone. 
 This means you'll get to try your hand on tiny NASCAR ovals, dense and twisty road courses, and 
 everything in between, including multiple configurations of the same venue, like at England's exciting 
 Brands Hatch.  

  In addition to the career mode, which takes you through tiers of varied racing series, you can 
 test yourself in time trials and enter free races. While some of the free race tracks are initially 
 locked, a surprisingly large number of them are open for playing right from the start, which is 
 a very welcome change from the way most games handle such "extras." Unlike in the career mode, 
 there's a difficulty slider in the free race mode, as well as options to set the number of laps 
 from one to 60, select the weather, and more.     

  Like the PS2 version of Pro Race Driver, the PC version supports split-screen play for up to four 
 players, but it also adds LAN and Internet multiplayer support for up to eight players. However, 
 the game's online multiplayer seems to have problems with lag, and the lack of a proper mouse-based 
 interface makes using the game's integrated server browser unnecessarily difficult.  

          The graphics have been improved for the PC version.    When playing the single-player game, 
 you'll have to deal with the most problematic aspect of the game: the AI. Not only has the PC version 
 not improved on the AI from the PS2 version, but it also seems to have worsened it. You'll face 
 up to 20 AI competitors at a time -- more than in the PS2 version -- and they'll put up a tough fight 
 that will keep you racing hard. But they often behave erratically or suspiciously. If you get in 
 the path of their racing line, they'll frequently and unrealistically plow right into you in a 
 mad effort to stick to that line. It can be extremely frustrating to be leading a race and then 
 have an AI-controlled car knock you off the track when it could easily have gone around. When AI 
 drivers aren't slamming into you, they're often crashing into each other. In fact, some races can 
 end up turning into a game of bumper cars, particularly on tight street courses. What's worse, 
 computer-controlled racers will also frequently catch up and pass you with improbable speed, as 
 if they had some kind of top-secret, rocket-powered boosters attached to the back of their cars -- even 
 though there's no such thing in the game.  

  Despite these problems, Pro Racer Driver offers a thrilling sensation of speed, something a surprising 
 number of racing games don't get right. It can be a lot of fun to go roaring over a blind rise 
 or brake at the last moment to overtake another car as you come barreling into a turn. Coupled 
 with the high speeds, the bumper-car aspect of the game can actually become perversely fun on the 
 tight courses, where you can slam and jostle your way to the head of the pack. If nothing else, 
 Pro Race Driver can certainly be an action-packed game.  

  However, the game's physics model probably won't seem too impressive to hard-core racing fans who 
 expect sophisticated, real-world handling from their vehicles. The way Pro Race Driver's cars handle 
 is inconsistent. Sometimes you have to work to make your car slide or spin, but other times your 
 car will fly out of control at the slightest twitch. You can try using a steering wheel controller, 
 though you may find the handling to be overly sensitive if you do, and there's no easy way to adjust 
 the peripheral's sensitivity.  

  As you might expect, Pro Race Driver offers relatively simple car setup options, at least when 
 compared with the best hard-core racing simulations on the PC. Often, your cars are set up poorly 
 by default and will suffer from improper gear ratios for the track at hand, or from too much oversteer 
 or understeer. Also, you won't get to race in qualifying laps to determine your starting position 
 in career races, which is frustrating, since this is an essential part of professional racing. 
 You won't encounter yellow or black flags in races, either. The game just ignores major wrecks 
 and lets you drive off the track to cut off other cars in the turns.  

  While you won't get black-flagged for intentionally pushing an opponent off the track, your car 
 will suffer the consequences. Not only will you see the damage to your vehicle, in the form of 
 flying glass or mangled bumpers left on the road, but you'll also notice the effects on the car's 
 performance if you bash it particularly hard and frequently enough. Eventually, you might end up 
 limping across the finish line, though you have to be especially hard on your car to reach that 
 point.  

  Fortunately, the PC version of Pro Race Driver looks much better than the PS2 version, which suffered 
 from badly aliased graphics, or "jaggies." The PC version of the game generally has cleaner, higher-resolution 
 texture, though the opening movie seems exactly the same, and like in the PS2 version, the characters 
 in the PC game's cutscenes look rather blocky. While Pro Race Driver certainly never reaches the 
 same visual heights set by the recent NASCAR Racing 2003 Season, it's still attractive overall, 
 thanks to its nicely detailed car models and generally convincing scenery.  

          Roaring around a NASCAR oval.    The audio was good in the PS2 version of Pro Race Driver, 
 but the sound in the PC version is better, thanks to solid EAX support. Whining engines, screeching 
 brakes, and crunching metal from accidents usually sound convincing. Many of the voice-overs in 
 the game are superb, which really helps bring the characters to life. The game's soundtrack is 
 an improbable mixture of Iggy &amp; The Stooges, Thin Lizzy, Al Green, and Lynyrd Skynyrd, among 
 others.  

  Despite its problems, Pro Race Driver usually does a fine job of integrating storytelling and dramatic, 
 varied racing, rightfully putting the spotlight on both men and machines. If you can look past 
 its quirks and the accident-prone AI, you'll likely enjoy Pro Race Driver.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (1 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: ae86ben
Rating: 5
Date: Apr 18, 2003 1:07 am PT
Review:  I haven't played this game yet but i don't think i'll be buying after Gamespots and Jaws' reviews. 
 Im from Australia and i have played the PS2 version, put it plainly i wasn't impressed (apart from 
 the nice selection of cars) . I was wishfully hoping that Codemasters cleaned up the handling quirks 
 even though it was unlikely. 
  
  Graphics though look ok. The demo has a nice framerate and models so i guess it looks better in 
 game. I have a Logitech Momo Racing wheel and Im a fan of racing sims (F1 2002, GTR mod, CM2.0) 
 but sounds like it would go to waste on this game. AUD$99.95 is not cheap. Im gonna wait for Colin 
 McCrae 3.0 instead. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
