-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: ProStroke Golf - World Tour 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sports/worldtourgolf/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Good number of playable courses.
 challenges between tournaments are fun.
 course-creation tool works best on the PC version.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Only two of the courses are real.
 graphics are dull.
 commentary is awful.
 being forced to play tournaments with a partner makes them take forever.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov  2, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.3
Critic Score: 5.6, 12 Review (s)
User Score: 6.4, 28 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Oxygen Interactive
Developer: Gusto Games
Genre: Golf Sim
Date:     Aug 29, 2006
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
ProStroke Golf - World Tour 2007 is a deeply flawed game that fails to bring anything new to the 
 world of golf games. 

  There's no question that the Tiger Woods series is the king of video game golf, but that hasn't 
 stopped other developers from trying to get their piece of the pie. While there's always room for 
 more good golf games, ProStroke Golf - World Tour 2007 from Gusto Games doesn't fit the bill. The 
 core gameplay isn't bad, and for the most part, the swing mechanics work just fine. However, the 
 lack of distinguishing features, subpar graphics, and paltry list of licensed pros make ProStroke 
 Golf an underwhelming effort.  

          A generic golfer on a generic course in a generic game.     

  If a feature-rich golf 
 experience is what you seek, ProStroke Golf is not what you're looking for. You can go through 
 the inadequate training mode, play a quick round, enter a tournament, or start a career. Online 
 play is supported, but we were never able to find anyone to play against. Up to four players can 
 play against each other on one PC in an exhibition, but you aren't able to play together in the 
 career mode. In many games, career mode offers the most depth and replay value, but that's not 
 the case in ProStroke Golf. Embarking on a career is extremely basic, consisting of a calendar 
 of fictitious one-day tournaments and little else. Hidden away are challenge events that can be 
 accessed only by selecting an open date on the tour schedule. These challenges consist of shorter 
 events or one-on-one matches and are often more enjoyable than the full tournaments, so it's curious 
 that the game doesn't do a better job of pointing them out. Money can't be spent to upgrade equipment 
 or buy new outfits, so you'll find yourself pursuing "renown points," which are earned for winning 
 tournaments and accomplishing feats such as hitting a green in regulation or driving the ball 280 
 yards. These points improve your golfer's abilities, though you never actually see any stats reflecting 
 the changes. Renown points also unlock higher-profile events, though these events are largely the 
 same as those that you started off playing, differing only in the number of entrants, size of the 
 purse, and score of the winner.  

  ProStroke Golf has eight licensed professional golfers -- Sergio Garcia, Mark O'Meara, Justin Rose, 
 Ben Curtis, Thomas Bjorn, Colin Montgomerie, Ian Woosnam, and Zhang Lian-Wei -- only a few of which 
 the casual fan will recognize. The number of real-world courses in the game is even less impressive, 
 numbering in at just two: The Brabazon and Sergio Garcia's home course, Lake Nona. There are 16 
 fantasy courses, and though they do offer up a good challenge, they aren't particularly interesting. 
 It would have been better if the developer took advantage of creating a course from the ground 
 up by taking some risks with the fictional courses.  

  On the course, ProStroke finds a good balance between being challenging and fun. Since the scores 
 are realistic, you'll never shoot in the 50s as you used to be able to do in the older Tiger Woods 
 games, but the game never feels unfair. In fact, the realistic scoring makes salvaging par after 
 an errant tee shot as rewarding as getting a birdie in other games. Despite being touted as an 
 innovative feature, ProStroke's swing mechanic (using a dual analog controller) is little more 
 than Tiger Woods' system turned sideways. Instead of moving the right analog stick down and then 
 up to swing, you have to move it right and then left. Moving the left analog stick in synch with 
 the right is designed to replicate moving your body weight while swinging to generate more power. 
 Using the left analog stick adds at most 10 percent to your distance, but it also increases the 
 likelihood of hooking or slicing the ball. Should you wish to add a slice or hook to your shot, 
 doing so is as easy as shifting the position of your front foot, via a quick press up or down on 
 the D pad. This occasionally comes in handy when you need to get around some trees on a hole that 
 doglegs left or right. If you're using a keyboard and mouse to play, you won't have the option 
 to shift your weight during your swing, but you can alter your timing to "snap your wrists" for 
 a little extra power. It's also worth noting that the game is quite a bit easier when played with 
 a keyboard-and-mouse setup.  

          You can design your own course, which is a nice feature, but it's very time consuming. 
     

  A few other issues keep the on-course action from rivaling that of more established golf games. 
 The game's pace of play is agonizingly slow since you're always forced to play alongside a computer-controlled 
 golfer in career mode. You can't skip your opponent's turn, and to make matters worse, in the early 
 tournaments the computer's play is dreadful. Matches will drag on for close to an hour as you watch 
 the computer score in the mid-80s. Figuring out just how far a shot is going to go is another problem. 
 Iron shots can be excessively erratic and will often fall far short of the target or go much farther 
 than you intended them to, and drives vary in length by 20 to 30 yards from one hole to the next 
 for no readily apparent reason. Some of this may be due to the wind, but the onscreen indicator 
 is impossible to read. Also, it's very difficult to judge the slope of the greens when you're chipping 
 and don't have the benefit of the grid overlay. You can try and compensate for not knowing how 
 a green slopes by shaping your shot using the left analog stick before your swing, but it's extremely 
 difficult to judge how far the ball will travel, even with the aid of the visual shot-shaper indicator. 
 After several tournaments, we encountered a bug that tallies your final score incorrectly. However, 
 every time it occurred, our golfer actually finished higher in the standings, so it wasn't too 
 off-putting.  

  Judging by the popularity of the create-a-character mode in the Tiger Woods series, it seems obvious 
 that one feature people enjoy most about video golf is creating and then building up a character. 
 Apparently, the developers at Gusto Games didn't get the memo. When creating a golfer, you are 
 stuck choosing between two hats, two shirts, two pants, and two gloves. The options are so limited 
 that you don't even have the alternative of going hatless, nor can you change your body type, height, 
 or facial features. Even if you could customize your character, it wouldn't do much to make your 
 golfer more interesting since none of the characters can blink, make facial expressions, or so 
 much as celebrate with a fist pump after a big shot. The course-designer tool is similarly limited. 
 After naming the course, selecting a region, time of year, and cloud cover, you're left to fumble 
 around with the unintuitive editor. The manual does a fair job of explaining the course-building 
 process, but there's no onscreen help to ease the learning curve. The shallow visual-customization 
 options leave your created courses looking repetitive and drab. Those that are patient can create 
 some interesting and outrageous courses, though the lack of any official course-sharing support 
 renders any such endeavor destined to be viewed by a precious few.  

  ProStroke Golf's visuals are bland and lifeless, though on the PC they aren't so bad as to negatively 
 affect the gameplay, as they did on consoles. The greens look fine, but it's tough to see their 
 undulations when chipping from off the green. The colors are bland, and the water looks pretty 
 poor, as well. None of the available camera angles work particularly well, and the camera often 
 finds itself behind or among the trees, which have a nasty habit of popping in and out as the camera 
 pans. Gusto's decision to go with a top-down view that shows just the club head and the ball when 
 you're using the dual analog to swing forces you to time your swing solely off of the meter. This 
 is peculiar since the game encourages you to "feel" a shot rather than just hit it based on what 
 the numbers say. Putting is made more difficult not only because the poor camera angles cut off 
 half of the putting line when you zoom in toward the hole, but also because it's tough to judge 
 the blips that move along the grid indicating the slope since they move extremely fast, making 
 the break seem more severe than it actually is.  

          The expression on his face says it all.     

  One could certainly argue that good commentary 
 has yet to be done in a golf game, and ProStroke Golf isn't going to change anybody's mind. The 
 commentary is dreadful. Ian Baker-Finch, Alan Green, and Sam Torrance call the action without an 
 ounce of enthusiasm. To make matters worse, their dry narration is often incorrect. They'll chide 
 you for a bad shot when you put the ball just feet from the pin from 150 yards out, praise you 
 as your ball rolls past the pin and off the green, and call out the score incorrectly more often 
 than they get it right. The crowds are equally dull. They'll clap politely for any reasonably good 
 shot, and they'll cheer just a tiny bit when you hit an exceptional shot. Even simple sounds like 
 the ambient noises of the course are done poorly. The background and menu music don't stray from 
 the bland precedent set by the rest of the audio -- they're just as bad.  

  ProStroke Golf's action on the course is just good enough to be entertaining for a short while, 
 but it's impossible to look past its many problems for very long. Dated visuals, horrible commentary, 
 pitiful create-a-character options, and dreadfully slow gameplay are just a few of the game's many 
 shortcomings. Having 2007 in the title indicates that Gusto Games has at least considered a follow-up 
 effort, but they've got a lot of work ahead of them before this series can be mentioned alongside 
 Tiger Woods, Links, and Hot Shots.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (0 Reviews)
-------------------------------------------------
