-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Psychonauts
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/psychonauts/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Tim Schafer's gift for creating unique characters and entertaining dialogue shines through wonderfully here.
 Great platforming mechanics that excel in both variance and control.
 Lovely graphics engine.
 The game's psychic powers are a lot of fun.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 The game isn't especially challenging, except in somewhat sporadic spurts.
 Not a terribly long adventure and not a great deal of replay value.
 PC version features some annoying audio bugs.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr 19, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.4
Critic Score: 8.9, 29 Review (s)
User Score: 9.0, 1,670 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Majesco Games
Developer: Double Fine Prod.
Genre: 3D Platformer
Date:     Apr 26, 2005
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Psychonauts doesn't reinvent the platformer, but it still delivers an experience that feels wholly 
 original in every aspect of its execution. 

  Psychonauts is a quirky, offbeat game set in a special summer camp for clairvoyant kids, in which 
 a group of psychic children end up in a wacky adventure filled with brain-stealing hijinks, psychic 
 secret agents, and a little romance on top of everything else. It's rooted in the sorts of 3D platforming 
 sensibilities we've all come to know over the years. But there's a spin to the game -- its psychic 
 theme -- which adds some cool puzzle-solving to the usual platform-jumping and swinging associated 
 with the genre. Psychonauts also bears the unmistakable mark of designer Tim Schafer (known for 
 classic adventure games Grim Fandango, Full Throttle, and Day of the Tentacle) , thanks to a hilarious 
 array of peculiar characters and a story that never fails to entertain. Psychonauts doesn't reinvent 
 the platformer, but it still delivers an experience that feels wholly original in every aspect 
 of its execution.  

          It took four years and two publishers, but Psychonauts is finally here, and no worse for 
 the wear, it seems.     

  The heart and soul of Psychonauts is Razputin -- or, Raz, for short -- a big-headed, goggle-sporting 
 psychic prodigy who sneaks his way into a mysterious summer camp that happens to be a training 
 ground for the titular psychonauts, a group of psychic secret agents. Raz, it seems, has run away 
 from his home in the circus and wants to become a psychonaut himself. Grudgingly, the counselors 
 of the camp accept Raz into the group (albeit only for a day, until his father can come get him 
 and take him home) . However, it doesn't take long for strange things to start happening around 
 camp. Raz, as well as other children, find that they're suffering from similar nightmares. Strange 
 psychic interference seems to be popping up all over the place, and not long after that, the brains 
 of the other campers start disappearing, leaving the campers as soulless, TV-obsessed husks. As 
 the hero of the story, Raz is on a mission to solve these various mysteries and uncover the crazy 
 conspiracy behind it all.  

  The basic plot itself reads like typical platformer fodder, but there's a lot more to Psychonauts' 
 story than can be summed up in a single paragraph. This is largely due to the game's bizarre cast 
 of characters, of which there are many. Raz himself is a highly likable hero; he's cute, heroic, 
 funny, and also a little awkward at times. He fits the bill of the overenthusiastic yet not-quite-ready 
 hero to the letter and it's hard not to feel sympathetic to his plight. But beyond Raz, there's 
 a great supporting cast, with roughly two dozen other characters who play parts both large and 
 small in the story. The counselors consist of Coach Oleander, an overly aggressive drill sergeant; 
 Milla Vodello, a somewhat ditzy and party-happy go-go girl; Agent Nein, a pale-skinned, sweater-sporting 
 scientist of indeterminate Eastern European origin; and Ford Cruller, a mysterious old man who 
 seems to exist in about eight different places at once. These counselors join the crazy array of 
 campers, as well as other strange people and creatures you'll encounter, to drive the storyline, 
 and thanks to the game's excellent design, you'll have no shortage of opportunities to get attached 
 to them.  

  Initially, Psychonauts feels like a very open-ended game, especially because upon your first venture 
 into the camp area, you'll find yourself able to just wander around, chatting it up with other 
 campers or even just listening in on their completely insane conversations. The camp and its many 
 areas make up a hub world, where you can access lots of different things, including a camp store, 
 where you can buy helpful items, an underground tram that cuts down on backtracking, and all sorts 
 of little hidden areas that yield bonus items. However, the biggest boon for the camp world is 
 all the little bouts of dialogue you can discover. Depending on what stage of the game you're at, 
 the conversations change up quite a bit, meaning you're not often going to hear a lot of repeats. 
 This is great, especially because there's just so much of the dialogue. In some instances, you 
 can literally just stand next to a pair of characters while they converse for about five minutes 
 or longer and never hear the same line twice. And it's almost always really funny stuff.  

  However, the most interesting aspects of Psychonauts' characters don't come from their real-world 
 conversations, but rather from their internal monologue. As Psychonauts revolves around a bunch 
 of psychics, the bulk of your time will be spent traversing the perils of people's minds. This 
 is where Psychonauts truly shines. You'll be able to enter the minds of more than a dozen different 
 characters in the game, and each mind serves as one of its main levels. Each level is completely 
 unique. For instance, when you enter the head of Coach Oleander, you'll find a war-torn landscape 
 filled with constant explosions, plants made out of ammunition, and, for reasons not immediately 
 apparent, lots and lots of meat. In another example, you enter the mind of a crazed security guard 
 named Boyd Cooper, who is utterly obsessed with nonsensical conspiracies and someone called "The 
 Milkman." His mental landscape looks like a 1950s-era suburban neighborhood that's been picked 
 up by a pair of hands, twisted into a topsy-turvy fun house, and occupied exclusively by shadowy 
 agents in trench coats who try to convince you that they're just simple street workers, or hedge 
 trimmers, or grieving widows, despite their obviously ulterior motives. It's all totally weird, 
 but also undeniably unique.  

  No two minds are exactly alike in Psychonauts, both aesthetically and in terms of gameplay. Granted, 
 you will be spending at least some of your time in each level engaging in the usual platforming 
 shenanigans, like jumping and double-jumping over platforms, swinging from poles, walking tightropes, 
 and so on. When the game is in full-on platformer mode, it plays very well. The controls are tight, 
 the camera is rarely ever a problem, and it's generally pretty easy to get Raz around without screwing 
 up, at least on the Xbox. The PC version controls well enough too, provided of course you have 
 a good USB controller, as the keyboard and mouse controls just don't feel right for this type of 
 game (and even with a USB controller, camera control can be a bit of a pain) . If there's any one 
 criticism to be mounted here across both platforms, it's that the game is rarely ever that difficult, 
 save for a few specific parts that are actually quite tough. You can't call the game a total breeze, 
 either, but most experienced players shouldn't have any problems mastering the basic play mechanics 
 pretty quickly.  

          The inside of a person's mind can be a pretty crazy place.     

  Even though the game 
 isn't particularly hard, at least it's not repetitive. The goals and challenges of each level are 
 totally exclusive. In one level, you'll find yourself playing a bizarre board game against a mental 
 projection of Napoleon Bonaparte. You'll shrink down to "fun size" to recruit new pieces to your 
 cause, and then you'll return to your normal size so that you can move them around. In another 
 level, you're fighting neon-tinted luchadores and a big, hulking bull in what looks like a velvet 
 painting of a congested Spanish city. It's with this kind of variety that Psychonauts manages to 
 achieve its high level of quality.     

  It also helps that the game has more to it than just a lot of jumping around. There are puzzles 
 to be solved in Psychonauts, as well as battles to be fought, and both require use of Raz's list 
 of crazy psychic powers. You start out only with a basic melee attack at your disposal, but as 
 you play and collect items scattered about both the real world and mental worlds, you'll be able 
 to upgrade Raz's rank and earn new powers, like telekinesis, pyrokinesis, levitation, invisibility, 
 and clairvoyance. The best part is that there will be crazy situations constantly thrown at you 
 where you'll have to change your powers regularly (as you can only have three assigned at one time) . 
 Got a piece of wood in front of you that's blocking your path? Just set it on fire with your mind. 
 Need to get an object from one place to another? Just get your telekinesis on. Again, the game 
 itself is rarely all that difficult, so it's not like you'll have to work too hard with these abilities 
 to beat enemies or solve puzzles, but they're a lot of fun to play around with, regardless.  

 
          Raz's psychic powers are a hoot to play around with.     

  Psychonauts' main story isn't exceptionally long, and it should take players somewhere between 
 10 to 15 hours to finish the game. However, if you're the kind of player that likes to dig around 
 and find hidden stuff, or just get 100 percent on everything, then Psychonauts could certainly 
 provide you with a much longer experience. The game is chock-full of scavenger hunt items, crazy 
 unlockable memories from each entered mind, collectible figments, and all sorts of other nutty 
 stuff that will likely take you a long time to find and will also help you upgrade Raz a lot quicker. 
 Plus, there are all sorts of random dialogue and story bits to be found everywhere. You'll get 
 pretty much all you need to out of the story if you just stick to the straight and narrow path 
 of the main plot, but you won't see it all.  

  Psychonauts' greatest achievement, perhaps unsurprisingly, is in the realm of its presentation. 
 Graphically, this is one of the nicest-looking platformers on the Xbox or PC. The whole game has 
 a remarkably polished look to it. The characters animate smoothly, the textures and set pieces 
 all look excellent, and the game almost always performs well, with nearly no slowdown or other 
 such problems to speak of. However, pure performance isn't where these visuals shine; artistry 
 is really where they come together. The whole look of the game feels like the unholy love child 
 of Tim Burton and a Pixar animation team, and it's just wonderful stuff. Everyone has the sort 
 of kooky, misshapen look of  The Nightmare Before Christmas  characters, and each are hysterical 
 in their own way. We've already raved about how all the different environments, both real and cerebral, 
 look totally unique and amazing, so we'll spare you any further details on the subject. There just 
 aren't any other games of this type that look like Psychonauts does and it seems near-impossible 
 not to fall in love with its sense of style.  

  The audio is another area where Psychonauts excels. None of these characters would be worth a spit 
 if they weren't acted well, and thankfully, they're downright brilliant at times. Raz is voiced 
 to perfection -- to the point where you just couldn't envision another voice coming out of that kid's 
 giant head -- and every other character feels similarly on point as well. The fact that the dialogue 
 is just so goofy and fun also helps. It's simply impossible to count all the chuckleworthy moments 
 and the flat-out hilarious parts, as there are so many of them in this game. The soundtrack and 
 sound effects are just as excellently produced. The music is so wonderfully suited to each specific 
 environment that is just blends perfectly into the ambience of the level, like the Spanish flamenco 
 that echoes off the walls of the velvet-painting level and the battle-charged theme of your fight 
 against Napoleon. Though the sound effects rarely ever transcend the usual goofy sounds you'd hear 
 in any given platformer, they all fit into the context of the game nicely and never sound out of 
 place.  

          The characters in this game are completely lovable, if a bit grotesque, at times.     

 
  The one issue with the audio is that it does have its technical problems from time to time -- mainly 
 on the PC version. On our main test PC, we found that certain lines of dialogue, as well as some 
 specific sound effects, just came across as much too quiet, like they were on a different audio 
 channel that couldn't be turned up or something. We tried the game on another PC and found a different 
 issue. The dialogue would actually slow to a crawl in some situations, making the characters sound 
 like the spawn of Satan or something like that. The problem itself was infrequent enough (at least 
 on our main test system) to where it didn't intrude on the overall play experience, but it certainly 
 was annoying. The Xbox version had almost no technical problems at all, save for a couple of bouts 
 with slightly off-kilter pauses where the soundtrack loops, as well as some occasionally overlapping 
 dialogue. Otherwise, the audio is pretty much perfect.  

  Especially for a game that has gone through four-plus years of development and two publishers, 
 Psychonauts turned out remarkably well. It's pretty evident where all that development time was 
 spent, as each and every moment just seems so carefully crafted and polished, to the point where 
 you can't help but feel a deep appreciation for the whole experience. Players looking for a stiff 
 challenge or an exceptionally lengthy adventure won't find it here, and those who specifically 
 want to play the game on the PC aren't going to get the best version of the experience. However, 
 anyone just looking for a fun and whimsical adventure with a brilliant presentation and a fantastic 
 story will find just that in Psychonauts.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (70 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Photon_Man62
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 10, 2009 4:10 pm PT
Review:  This is, by far, the best platformer I have ever played and one of the best games I have played 
 overall.
  
  The story is not very complicated, but it is very immersive. I loved the characters - they were 
 perfectly voiced and acted.
  
  This is also the most artistic game I have ever played. You can enter many peoples' different minds, 
 and each one is a completely different world in itself which plays differently, looks differently 
 and sounds differently. You can enter a mad artist's mind and explore his world which is artistically 
 colored and Latin. You can enter the mind of an organized agent who represses his negative emotional 
 feelings, which finally ends in the releasing of all those feelings concentrated together, which 
 you have to fight. You can enter the mind of a former asylum orderly who has a battle (literally) 
 going on in his head.
  
  I also liked the wacky situations going on in this game. For example, there's a dentist who is 
 obsessed with brains; there's a world where dogs live in alleys, hiding from the bull El Odio, 
 which symbolises a mad artist's torment, and their only escape is art; there is a talking mutated 
 fish which tries to kill you, then befriends you and carries you around a lake with its mouth; 
 there is a thought where your childhood memories (in the circus) mix with your camp counselor's 
 (whose father was a butcher) , and you need to run around a gypsy circus made out of meat, fending 
 off crazy, mutated, rabbit-like creatures while your counselor tries to catch a bunny. Need I say 
 more?
  
  The gameplay is intuitive, and the controls are easy to grip. However, the quests (let's call it 
 that for now) can sometimes get a bit tricky, which adds to the appeal, in my opinion. You get 
 fun psychic powers as you progress in rank and then unleash them upon the enemy. This game is crazy, 
 crazy fun! Fun - remember that feeling we had before games started feeling like second jobs? (I'm 
 looking at you, World of Warcraft!)
  
  My favourite levels here are:
  -Black Velvetopia
  -The Milkman Conspiracy
  -Gloria's Theater
  
  So when you start these, 
 you're in for quite a treat!
  
  The graphics are cartoonish, colorful and fun, and quite good for a game which came out back then. 
 They really add to the interesting atmosphere of the game.
  
  And the best part is, at the moment, it's free for a while!
  http://www. gametap. com/play/gameDetails/000475950
 
  Download it (just leave it for the night) and play it yourself, it definitely can't hurt ;-)
 
  
  You also won't have to worry about performance, this game has very low requirements, so you can 
 have great fun with it even if you're a cheapskate/poor :D
  
  That concludes my review.
  10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: antipunt1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 2, 2009 10:35 pm PT
Review:  I went into Psychonauts with little to no expectations and was pleasantly surprised. I'm still 
 kind of in awe, because I usually do not enjoy games of this genre.
  
  Psychonauts is technically a platformer, but it is essentially so much more. The characters are 
 charming, Rasputin is -very- convincing, the world is atmospheric, and the humor is awesome. Throughout, 
 the game was never lame and never stale. In addition, the pacing was rather good (in the game, 
 you never really find yourself grinding) . For example, there are certain 'figments' that you collect 
 to level up. Playing at a natural pace, I never found myself 'stuck' at any point in time.
  
  Ultimately the game came to around 11 hours. The graphics were rather clean and visually-appealing, 
 even for 2009 standards. The controls are fine, the quests are intuitive enough, and the story 
 is -fantastic-. I think probably the strongest points to this game are its incredibly unique premise 
 and gameplay. First off, we have Rasputin, a psychonaut-trainee who is determined to make something 
 of himself. Next, we have a range of diverse NPCs with individual personalities, some of which 
 you grow closer to. Voice acting all around is also superb.
  
  The powers are also satisfying. Ever wanted to set something on fire with your mind? Or levitate 
 or use psychokinesis? Psychonauts does a great job of shaking things up and keeping you entertained. 
 I was quite impressed with some of the finesse in the bosses and level design. In short, this game 
 just had a lot of polish to it.
  
  That said, this game is not perfect. Though it has -many- original/fun aspects, it has a couple 
 of no-nos. It was a shame too, because the game had so much polish overall. Thus, a lot of flaw-walls 
 that I ran into were surprising to me. For example, some levels were made in a way that made them 
 more tedious than necessary. Though these times were relatively infrequent, they still existed, 
 and thus, I had to grind through them. Some questionable choices like having to mash the double-jump 
 button to avoid a glitchy-death for example. Or an 'obstacle-course'-like area that you had to 
 repeat over and over and over again because sometimes you would use a move and it wouldn't register.
 
  
  Also, some 'objectives' came off as being rather random, and left you hanging. Since you eventually 
 have an NPC that tells you your current objectives, I found it strange that sometimes he'd be unnecessarily 
 vague. That said, the puzzles were overall, incredibly well done. Much-much better than puzzles 
 in a game like say, Tomb Raider Underworld.
  
  All in all, despite the flaws I've found, Psychonauts was fantastic because of its unique premise 
 and characters. The fact that I -cared- so much at all, is proof of how well it was made. Actually 
 in my opinion, rooting for the characters and/or plot is the mark of good design. Still, there 
 are those little pitfalls in the game. Nothing major, but prominent enough to leave a lasting impression 
 on me. Really, I found them strange to be in a game of such high polish otherwise. Still, these 
 problems are not at all critical enough to ruin the overall experience. 
  
  All in all: a great/recommended game. It has some flaws to it, but it's still pretty damn good. 
 Also, it gets major kudos points for uniqueness. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Dragon_Wolf
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 9, 2009 7:29 am PT
Review:  It starts by throwing you right into a funky weird summer camp with a cast of blizzard characters 
 and a funky war torn brain-scape.
  
  And after your first session of basic braining you get introduced to the open world the game has 
 to offer, it is not as large as other open world games (naturally since this is not an open world 
 game) but it still has condensed content and offers the player lots of things to do and provides 
 the player the means to travel quickly to avoid wasting times.
  
  All in all, every brain-scape you visit is a work of art in its own, i have read things about how 
 people imagine how brains look on the inside from a psychological point of view and this one pretty 
 much matches it .... every single level is a treat to both play (and yes each one plays differently) 
 and a joy to behold.
  
  A must play for any fan of platformers or even games in general ... fans of Day of the Tentacle 
 and Tim Burton will feel at home too ^_^ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BahamutNG
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 1, 2009 2:50 pm PT
Review:  This isn't a game every gamer knows about and it's a game that should be more recognised than it 
 is right now. Originally released in 2005, Psychonauts is a 3D platformer game which involves a 
 training ground named Whispering Rock where children who are gifted with psychic abilities are 
 sent to for summer. The whole game feels like something Tim Burton would have made if he worked 
 with Pixar or Dreamworks and when you play this game, you may wonder why they didn't have this 
 idea in mind in the first place.
  
  Psychonauts had good reception when it was released, but at the same time suffered from poor sales. 
 This may have been due to the lack of interest in platformer games since over the last few years, 
 with the exception of Nintendo, the video game industry has been less interested in platformer 
 games since the start of this decade or the game wasn't promoted very well during its release. 
 Whatever the case was, this game deserved more praise than it did back then. Fortunately, Psychonauts 
 has become more and more popular over the last few years as more gamers acknowledge its existence.
 
  
  Graphics:
  
  Although minor improvements could have been made to the graphics in this game, those minor graphical 
 problems can be easily overlooked by the great visuals of the settings and characters. Those who 
 aren't picky about the quality of the graphics will have nothing to worry about.
  
  Sound:
  
  While the sound effects are great and the soundtrack is nice and versatile, the sound 
 doesn't truly shine until you hear the voice acting. Fans of Invader Zim will feel right at home 
 since the main character Razputin is voice acted by Richard Horvitz, the same guy who did the voice 
 for Zim. Double Fine, the gaming developer of Psychonauts hired a lot of experienced voice actors 
 as well as some new faces on board. Both the experienced and the newcomers do a fantastic job here, 
 although there is the odd one who does a terrible job in this game (sorry Tara Strong) , but luckily, 
 the one bad actor/actress can't bring the whole game down.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  The controls in this game are great, although there are two minor issues with them. The first being 
 the struggle with getting on tightropes. If you grab hold onto the tightropes rather than standing 
 on it, you may have to wait a few seconds before you can jump on top. This can be a problem at 
 times, most especially in the last mental world.
  
  The other minor issue is when the camera angle becomes awkward. If you're in a small room, controlling 
 the camera won't be easy at all and you won't have a clue where you are exactly. Sometimes, the 
 objects in the levels may block the camera view, most especially trees, so again you won't be able 
 to see where you are and where you're going towards to. Besides these issues, there's really nothing 
 to complain about regarding the controls.
  
  Although this is probably just an issue with how Steam distributed this game, the game often plays 
 in a slower frame rate, most especially in bigger areas. This issue can be solved by unclicking 
 FSAA in the graphics options. This also cuts down loading times, because with that enabled, it 
 can take a minute or two to fully load one area.
  
  There are eight special psychic abilities to obtain in this game including pyrokinesis, telekinesis, 
 levitation and clairvoyance. Some of these abilities can only be achieved by ranking up your Psi 
 Rank, while others are acquired in the mental worlds. All these abilities will be vital in one 
 way or another and some places/items can only be reached by using a specific power ups. Several 
 bosses in the game can only be defeated by a certain ability, so trying to use whatever you have 
 is required.
  
  There are several ways to rank up your Psi Rank in both real and mental worlds. The rank goes up 
 to 100 and the last rank will give you a bonus scene, which only lasts 60 seconds long but better 
 than just rewarding you with additional artwork like other games do. As well as earning new psychic 
 power-ups, raising your Psi Rank will also upgrade certain abilities, which are very useful later 
 on the game.
  
  The level designs in this game are outstanding. In the real world, you can explore the whole of 
 Whispering Rock Psychic Summer Camp as well as entering the abandoned mental asylum later on the 
 game. In these places (more especially Whispering Rock) , you'll be searching for Psi cards, challenge 
 markers and scavenger hunt items, which are all for the purpose of ranking up your Psi Rank. You'll 
 also have the opportunity to talk to the other kids and the Psychonaut agents who run the Whispering 
 Rock facility and you'll get to know more about them. This game also allows you to annoy the characters 
 by attacking them, holding them with telekinesis and attempt to set them on fire, although the 
 braindead cheerleaders will keep cheering you on if you do any of these actions.
  
  The mental worlds are just as amazing. The settings range from a small lungfish town invaded by 
 a "monster" (i. e. you) to a twisted neighbourhood involving the milkman conspiracy. All these level 
 designs and ideas are amazing, but the one that stands out the most has to be The Milkman Conspiracy 
 level, which is without a doubt the weirdest mental world as well as having some with the funniest 
 moments in the entire game.
  
  In the mental worlds, there are many figments to collect, emotional baggages to pair with their 
 correct tags, memory vaults to open up and mental cobwebs to clear away with the Cobweb Duster, 
 which can be obtained from The Lodge at the price of 800 arrowheads (the currency used to buy stuff 
 in The Lodge and used for certain events) . Some mental cobwebs will block your path to vital places, 
 so it's recommended you try and buy a Cobweb Duster as soon as you can.
  
  As great as it is to wonder around in both the real world and the mental worlds, it's not necessary 
 to collect everything in order to reach the ending of the game. Collecting all the figments, Psi 
 cards, etc are only for those who are determined to finish it 100%, want an extra challenge by 
 finding everything and anyone who simply loves this game a lot, such as myself.
  
  With the exception of the last mental world, the game's difficulty is easy, although not too easy 
 assuming you don't hunt down for all the figments and don't ask Agent Ford Cruller for any advice. 
 The boss fights aren't too hard either once you know how to beat them, but despite its pretty low 
 difficulty, Psychonauts is still a lot of fun. However, an opportunity to play the game on a higher 
 difficulty would have been a great bonus.
  
  The gameplay in general is fantastic with several tasks to do as well as great explorations in 
 all the levels.
  
  Storyline:
  
  The storyline is another major strength in Psychonauts for its very original idea, creativity and 
 excellent humour-value. The game starts off with the protagonist Razputin (often called Raz) escaping 
 from the circus run by his psychic-hating parents to be trained at Whispering Rock Psychic Summer 
 Camp to become a Psychonaut. He sneaks into the facility one night, but is caught by one of the 
 agents. Despite how much enthusiasm he has towards the Psychonauts, they claim his parents have 
 to grant them permission for Raz to participate in the mental activities.
  
  Fortunately, they allow him to participate in the activities the day after he arrived due to his 
 strong mind and is welcomed to the camp, even before their parents gave them permission to stay 
 here. Of course, something wrong happens to the camp along the way, but what exactly happens should 
 only be discovered by playing through the game.
  
  Psychonauts has a great range of characters with 21 children in the camp (including Raz) , the four 
 Psychonaut agents who run the camp and the characters you get to know about from their mental worlds. 
 Most of the children don't tell you their full backstory and it's not necessary since what you 
 learn from talking to them or listening out to some conversations between them is all that's needed. 
 Out of all these characters, the most important ones along with Razputin are the Whispering Rock 
 old-timer Lili, the Psychonaut agents Coach Oleander, Sasha Nein, Milla Vodello, Ford Cruller and 
 the ex-Dentist Doctor Loboto. Despite the importance of these characters, the other characters 
 are still fantastic and some you're likely to prefer over others.
  
  The only downfall with the storyline is how the game ends. The ending only made a strong suggestion 
 of a sequel to the game and unfortunately, there's been no real confirmation of a Psychonauts 2 
 yet. Who knows, maybe we'll hear something after the release of Tim Schafer's next game Brutal 
 Legend. Despite how the game ended, with many hilarious lines and a fantastic plot with originality 
 and such creativity, the storyline overall is superb.
  
  There are a few control issues here and there and while the ending didn't have the greatest idea 
 of all, everything mentioned about how great this game is all make up for those flaws. Psychonauts 
 is one of the greatest platformers of this decade (or perhaps THE greatest) and is highly recommended 
 for any fans of platformer games, gaming fans in general and of course, those who are familiar 
 with Tim Schafer's previous works such as Grim Fandango and Monkey Island. Any of the aforementioned 
 gamers who haven't played this game yet should get it right away, whether it be the PS2, Xbox, 
 PC retail or Steam download. This isn't a game to miss! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chilipepperman
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 2, 2009 1:46 am PT
Review:  Psychonauts is one of those games that i tried to like and finish, but i just couldnt bring myself 
 to do it. i loved the first half of the game, but after that, i felt the game got way too complicated 
 and started to drive me mad.
  
  Gameplay
  The gameplay is like prince of persia mixed with Rayman, with some good, but near the end, very 
 bad results. Some tasks result in you doing so many different things, its like you have a bunch 
 of side quests even though you are just folllowing the main quest. I felt that this game payed 
 homage to '90s platformers, as thats what is felt like. I found myslelf bored, and about 2 levels 
 away from the end, but at this point i was constantly looking at the guide to see how far away 
 from the end i was. i could bear fighting another like 3 bosses and doing a whole seperate list 
 of objectives.
  
  Graphics
  The visuals are stylish, cartoonish, and very imaginative. Many bright colors and dark shades are 
 shown very well, but a lot of textures are blurry throughout the envirionment
  
  Story
  In the beginning, i cared about what was going on, and i liked Raz as the main character, as he 
 is a pretty cool guy. But as the game wore on, the story got more and more complex and hard to 
 follow, and it just got to the point where i really didnt care anymore, hence me uninstalling the 
 game before i finished it.
  
  Overall, this game was a overrated (both critics and users) : ( people are saying this game is very 
 "imaginative and immersive" well its imaginative, but the only thing im immersed it is getting 
 this waste of time off my HD. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: boogiebot5000
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 6, 2008 10:47 am PT
Review:  Tim Schafer is a genius without a doubt, and this game shows it. Under-appreciated and fun, Psychonauts 
 will leave you wanting more. Though I must point out its slightly hard to play on the PC version. 
 The keyboard and mouse control actions, camera, and movement but due to annoying enemies, lag, 
 and the fact the character is a bit hard to controls in those tight spaces make the game hard just 
 to get to the next platform. Story: Razputin (voiced by Richard Horvits, the voice of Zim from 
 the TV show Invader Zim) is a young circus boy psychic who is shunned by his parents for having 
 psychic powers. His family pretty much hates psychics because of the fact that they killed Raz's 
 granddad and curesed his whole family to die in water. Gameplay: The levels are detailed, stunning, 
 and beauiful to say the least. From the camp grounds of Whispering-Rock, to the many mental worlds 
 of the game, and even the demented floors of The Thorney Towers Home For The Disturbed you'll have 
 a hay-day with these levels. Characters: Psychonauts took FIVE YEARS to make and one of the main 
 reasons is because every time the story progressed a little (E. G. you complete a mental world at 
 the camp) each of your fellow campers would have something new to say. 
  
  Story: 10
  
  Gameplay: 7
  
  Design: 10 
  
  Overall: 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuperMooseman
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 15, 2008 9:33 am PT
Review:  Psychonauts is one of those golden gem games that don't get priority place on the store shelf, 
 and despite raving reception from the critics, still don't sell as well as they should. This is 
 why you should buy Psychonauts. It is a very unique platformer which, thanks to the amazingly creative 
 mind of Tim Schafer, has stunning level designs and humour that no other game can match, and will 
 just have you begging for more.
  
  The game takes place in a summer camp for children with psychic powers. You control the main character 
 Razputin (whose nickname is Raz) who ran away from his home in the circus and now wants to become 
 a psychonaut. The camp leaders take him into their arms for a day, but cannot accept him as an 
 official cadet without parent consent - unluckily for Raz, his Dad is coming to take him away the 
 next day. However, odd things start to happen involving nightmares and psychic interference. Soon 
 all the brains of the kids are gone, which leaves them craving TV (which apparently is bad - who 
 knew?) . It is now up to Raz to save the day.
  
  The camp basically acts as the hub world. You can wander around and talk to all the characters 
 that'll be strolling about, or you can just stand near them and listen in on their conversations. 
 These act as tiny little sub-plots, as each camper will have their own life. As the game progresses, 
 so do these little stories. These range from anything from crushes, to one guy trying to hunt down 
 bears, and it is very rare you'll ever hear the same line twice. You can burn loads of time just 
 exploring and talking to people even before you've started the main chunk of the game.
  
  The game is very open-ended, and you will find yourself counting away the hours just exploring 
 all the nooks and crannies that the camp has to offer, along with digging for arrow heads. These 
 are the games currency, which allows you to buy cobweb dusters and other upgrades from the store, 
 some of which are vital for further progress in the game. Certain people will enjoy digging for 
 all the arrow heads, but for others it won't be their cup of tea. Luckily you don't have to do 
 a whole lot of it if you don't want to. The whole 'take-it-at-your-pace' method it is a neat way 
 of doing things, and is a refreshing change from a linear path of level after level that you might 
 see in other platformers.
  
  The levels are where the game really shines, and never once do they fall flat on their face. Each 
 one is a delight to play and each has something very different to offer. It is hard to describe 
 the worlds without spoiling it all as the game shines in surprisingly you in offering something 
 you wouldn't expect at all. You'll find yourself trying to solve a conspiracy inside a milkman's 
 head (some of the best lines in the game occur here) , and shrinking down into a board game and 
 helping the locals to try and win the match. It sounds wacky, and it certainly is, but that's just 
 what makes Psychonauts what it is.
  
  Visually the game still stands strong at the time of writing, 2008. Everything is in full 3D and 
 just by glancing at some screenshots you can appreciate zaniness of it all. The game runs perfectly 
 without a hitch and has sharp, polished graphics that will not disappoint. Although some people 
 may tell you that graphics do not matter, they certainly do bring Psychonauts into a league of 
 its own here, supporting the vast array of level styles, giving a different atmospheric feel to 
 each.
  
  Unlike Tim Schafer's past creations of straight up point-and-click adventures, Psychonauts is a 
 classic platformer, and adds nothing new to the mix if you've played the genre before. You'll still 
 be swinging from bars, climbing ropes, jumping and punching. However, does this bring the game 
 down because of it? Completely not. It is the way in which all of this is presented that makes 
 it fresh. As you work your way through the game you will be awarded different psychic powers which 
 are needed to complete certain tasks in the game, as well as using the objects that you collect 
 in your backpack. You'll have to get your brain into gear to try and solve some of the problems, 
 as this isn't a full-on platformer like you might expect. These tasks fit in with the craziness 
 of the levels they are in, and everything plays together beautifully.
  
  Using the keyboard may be an acceptable control method for you, as it would be for me usually, 
 but in Psychonauts I found that I couldn't configure it to just how I wanted. In the end it just 
 comes down to personal preference, but I connected up my XBOX 360 controller and played with much 
 more ease using this. The d-pad allowed for easy physic powers selecting, and the analogue stick 
 was much easier in terms of navigating Raz about.
  
  The people you'll encounter in the game are full to the brim with personality, and every character 
 is different from each other in both design and attitude. There are the three camp leaders - Sasha 
 Nein, who is a very mysterious person, and also acts as your tutorial for the first part of the 
 game; Milla Vodello, a disco-loving woman who just wants to hold a good party; and Coach Oleander, 
 who may not be the person he seems. You will additionally become accustomed to Ford Cruller, who 
 is Raz's mentor and idol. Of course there will be a whole host of people to meet along the way 
 too, each one being as unique and funny as the last.
  
  Dialogue is an important part in Psychonauts, and luckily the game succeeds in it with ease. Genuinely 
 funny lines have been written, and there are countless laugh-out-loud moments, which is something 
 that is hard to pull off. However, the writing would be nothing without the voice acting, which 
 too can be ticked off and stamped with a smiley face. The voices bring real feeling to the personalities, 
 and never does any line fall flat on its face. In fact, the acting is so good that it beats that 
 of a lot of major animated films, and you'll find yourself becoming emotionally attached to Raz.
 
  
  Not everything about the game is top notch, however. You will not find yourself being particularly 
 challenged as the boss fights, enjoyable as they may be, are hardly any more difficult than the 
 actual gameplay itself. Rookie gamers may find it harder, but veterans will move quite swiftly 
 along. The game will also last you a good fifteen-seventeen hours at most, and this is no bad thing, 
 but you will be left wanting more and with the chances of a sequel not that high, your wishes may 
 never be fulfilled.
  
  Don't have second thoughts about buying Psychonauts. Granted, the game is not particularly challenging, 
 but you can get it cheaply now and you will not regret it at all. Psychonauts is an amazing game 
 with experiences that you cannot get anywhere else. This is Tim Schafer doing what he does best 
 - creating an expansive world full of brilliant characters, environments and gameplay, which is 
 ultimately one of the best games he has ever created. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Akr321
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 14, 2008 11:48 am PT
Review:  I've found the game a blast to play, and wholeheartedly recommend it to all. It has everything 
 a good platformer should have, from colorful, weird characters, to awesome level design, and of 
 course, the fundamentals of platforming gameplay and item collecting. Add to that a great story 
 and you have a game, that, while not doing much new in terms of gameplay, does so much for story 
 and visual style that it feels like the first platformer you've ever plaed anyway. Mention should 
 also be made of the humour, which is absolutely hilarious in a very Tim Burton-esque way. It's 
 a bit of a shame it sold as poorly as it did, but seeing as its now available for free on gametap 
 and also for download on steam, I say don't miss it. It's the kind of game you won't see again 
 for quite a while, and the kind of storytelling you just don't see that often in a game at all. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johnsch
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 13, 2008 7:27 pm PT
Review:  This was an exceptionally refreshing game with a purposeful goal of being funny, odd and quite 
 bizarre whilst at the same time having a great game to play, with minimal repetitive backtracking 
 and maximum laugh out loud game play. Not some kiddy fart humor game full of children's butt crack 
 jokes, but honest humor both visual and voice driven. The script was truly thought out and the 
 voice acting stellar, especially in comparison to the majority of games on the market today with 
 someone's Uncle Joe Bob trying to play the voice of some Omni-intelligent agent and yet his or 
 her mastery of linguistics equates to a person who can't even speak basic English and every word 
 is monotone, ear bleeding torture. Psychonauts was exceedingly blatant in its purposeful visual 
 bazooka load of excellent mind altering art and scenery accompanied by sounds and music of the 
 same great style and high quality at every turn. Highly recommended to anyone with a sense of humor 
 and who cares about good games and not another shameless copy of someone else's game that is given 
 a different name and double talking you into thinking it's a new, never before seen game that you 
 just can't miss. So, unless you suffer some severe issues with trying something new, refreshing 
 and above all, FUN. If you absolutely have to shoot at every pixel you see, this isn't your game, 
 but if you can put down the BFG for a while and then reduce your caffeine drip, you will find that 
 Psychonauts will possibly return your BP to a more normal state and if you wish for a monster dose 
 of healthy laughter and eye popping goodness and NOT seeing yourself turned to giblets frequently 
 while running like heck and hypermousing to stay alive, this is a game to try, go buy it and prepare 
 for strange fun times 10. It's just a guess, but I think the odd box art with no marketing guidance 
 as to what this game would be is what killed its sales. To bad, I could play many more like it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tuff_gong92
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 27, 2008 12:48 pm PT
Review:  Psychonauts seems very silly. A game no serious gamer should consider. There's a reason reviewers 
 would not stop praising this game. Psychonauts brings a breath of fresh air in an otherwise sequel 
 driven gaming model.
  
  You play as Raz, a kid that ironically ran away from the circus to join a summer camp in order 
 to be a psychonaut, which are a group of psychopowered elite whose job is to restore balance to 
 the psychological world and eliminate any threat to that world. 
  
  As Raz, you begin in the kid's area and you progress around the camp. Each section of the camp 
 has a counselor that will train you in the ways of the psychonaut. You do this by entering their 
 mind and learning specific skills like levitation. This is a platformer which means you'll run, 
 jump, punch, shoot, and float around some of the most diverse and innovative environments in any 
 video game to date. You'll run around in a game set, spanish velvet painting, conspiracy theory 
 suburbia, a psychedelic dance party, and a city with fish as its citizens and you playing the role 
 of a giant monster akin to godzilla.
  
  Most of the gameplay will have you running around, fighting, and exploring the various levels along 
 the way. In order to progress and level up Raz, you need to collect cards and objects that look 
 like eyeballs. Collect enough and you will gain more powers. In order to get the full experience 
 and collect all the items, you'll spend a good amount of time finding and collecting arrowheads, 
 which is the game's currency. You can spend these arrowheads on a number of items including a vacuum 
 cleaner looking item that sucks up cobwebs which you can turn into cards.
  
  A very large part of the game is the humor. The cutscenes are absolutely hilarious and the writing 
 is brilliant. The visual style is quirky and the attention to detail is astonishingly funny. All 
 these things come together to make one of the funniest games ever.
  
  The only flaws this game has is that after a certain point, the game will no longer let you explore 
 the game. One would assume you can go back and keep exploring the levels in order to collect all 
 the items and level up all the way but it cuts you off and that's a shame. If you like the game, 
 the gameplay shouldn't prove to be repetitive but it can be to some people.
  
  Full of humor, nuance, innovation, and great gameplay. This game comes together in such a way that 
 its shocking that more people haven't play this. 
  
  If you prove to be a cheap person and own a relatively good PC, sign up for a free GameTap account 
 and you can play the game for free. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bruno_fmenedes
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 8, 2009 12:12 pm PT
Review:  --------------------------
  SCORE: ( ( ( 8.5 ) ) ) - (in a scale of 0.5 increments, without a formula)
  --------------------------
 
  Gameplay - ( 8 )
  Graphics -- ( 9 )
  Sound ------ (10)
  Value ------- ( 7 )
  Story -------- ( 8 )
  --------------------------
  
  THE GOOD:
      Solid and fun platforming 
 gameplay with variety and some new ideas, that manages to feel fresh until the end;
      Cool psychic powers that are fun to use;
      A fantastic use of colors that combines perfectly 
 with the artistic level design, giving a distinctive look to the game, that reflects very well 
 it's out-of-the-ordinary theme;
      First-rate voice work supported by an exquisitely written speech, really helps bringing the 
 characters to life, each one with his own personality;
      Effective sound effects and high quality original soundtracks, are put to great use, creating 
 an engrossing atmosphere in each area;
      One of the best stories ever told in a video-game, mainly because of it's surprisingly well 
 developed and inspired characters.
  
  THE BAD:
      The camera doesn't try to capture the best angle for each situation, so you have to be adjusting 
 it all the time;
      In certain places there is a clear lack of polish;
      The game is somewhat easy to beat, it's not a long game (15-18 hours) and you probably won't 
 want to replay it;
      I didn't notice any "annoying audio bugs" in the PC version, but the Gamespot reviewer did, 
 so in some PCs this could be a problem.
  
  FINAL WORDS:
  Overall, the game is more then just the sum of its individual parts, where everything works together 
 to create something truly unique and nothing feel out of place. It doesn't try too reinvent the 
 genre, but manages to deliver a fresh experience by providing many highly imaginative levels to 
 explore and a wonderful story, full of funny moments and entertaining characters. It's very sad 
 that this game won't get a sequel, because it really deserved it.
  
  In my honest opinion, even being a Mario fan, "Psychonauts" is a better game than "Super Mario 
 Sunshine", although it sold much less. Too bad it was never released on the Gamecube, because I 
 think it would have really helped a great deal to increase the sales of the game, since, at least 
 from my point of view, it seems that most gamers that like this kind of game are those who like 
 to play Nintendo games (like me) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ekstrakt
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 26, 2008 1:43 pm PT
Review:  Don't let the first impressions of this game fool you. Although it looks and feels like a childish 
 game at first, it is much more than that. It's a very psychedelic adventure that has few quite 
 interesting puzzles.
  About the graphics: The graphics in the game are as you can guess from the name: PSYCHEDELIC, baby. 
 It's so much full of color, so much dark and lite feelings in the graphics. It's an artistic presentation 
 of the world. Each area has it's own unique design and coloring, it's own reflection of the character's 
 mind.
  The sound in the game is very good engineered, with all the voice-overs made right, and all the 
 characters in the game with their own way of talking.
  The main attribute of this game is the level design. You'll play through very different and distinctive 
 levels, each with it's own background music, design and colors.
  Also, a bit surprisingly, the game is full of witty humour, that makes it pretty much fun for playing.
 
  Overall, a very good game worth playing. And again, don't let it fool you that is a childish game 
 that isn't worth playing. The childish part is very soon over, and it' a very challenging game 
 for playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vlad02
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 20, 2008 12:56 am PT
Review:  Psychonauts it is a great game, not just for its graphics but for its gameplay. In the game you 
 are a boy called Raz or Razputin which arrived at the psychonauts training camp which are special 
 agents with cool powers who "repair" other people heads. I was talking about cool powers: in the 
 game you can learn a series of psyhic powers which can help you travel in your journey. You will 
 be able to blast your enemies with the Psyhic Blast , you'll have telekinesis, or invisibility, 
 or youll be able to levitate, put things on fire, see the world through someone else's eyes or 
 confuse your enemies. The story is very well made, funny, and in other word just great. In the 
 game you (Raz) must solve the mistery of the the stolen brains.
  Psychonauts use some kind of small device like a door to enter in others brains and find out things. 
 The game is very funny and wierd too. The graphics are well made, kinda different from other games, 
 the voice acting is good, so is the sound. The specs are quite low, most computers can handle it. 
 A few bugs, and the only major problem is that the story ends. Hope there'll be a Psychonauts 2. 
 This game deserves a 9. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Bad_Gay
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 14, 2008 12:20 pm PT
Review:  Raz is a Psychonaut in training. He has a special gift which allows him to enter other people's 
 minds and do all kinds of crazy things, like setting fire to objects using mind-power and becoming 
 invisible. Of course, these skills need to be trained. Professionals in all these skills are called 
 'Psychonauts', special forces of the mind. Raz starts humbly in Psychic Rocks Summer camp, but 
 soon sinister events start to unfold ...
  
  Psychonauts is one in a thousand. Few games manage to get the atmosphere - which is pretty unique 
 - absolutely right. It's a game which takes storytelling serious (albeit not a very 'serious' story, 
 expect some really crazy stuff) . Its characters all have their unique traits. Relations are worked 
 out (it even features a love story!) and the dialogues are witty and sharp. Luckily the voices 
 match the quality of the writing and range from great to absolutely brilliant.
  
  The music and graphics add to the artistic value of the product. Not only are the graphics pleasant 
 to look at from a technical perspective (reflections etc ...) , the environments are all beautifully 
 designed and the characters as well have a very distinct design.
  
  Gameplay overall is nice. I'm not a platformgamer, and I must say I was pleasantly surprised with 
 the gameplay. It's not too difficult (in the beginning even a little bit too easy) , but the difficulty 
 augmented significantly near the end of the game. For me, the platforming itself was the least 
 enjoyable aspect of the game. It did sometimes lead to frustrations. If you're an experienced platformgamer 
 you can cast these comments aside and be assured you'll have fun balancing on a mental circus ball!
 
  
  In conclusion nearly every aspect of the game is great. If you're a platformgamer buy it, now! 
 If you're not, I'm sure you'll be able to enjoy it, the story and environments alone are worth 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tman90
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 17, 2007 5:24 am PT
Review:  Psychonauts is my new favorite game of all time. The game takes place at a camp for Psychonauts 
 in training. You play as Raz who is very gifted. As a advanced student, you are approached by a 
 secret service looking dude named sasha who teaches you the interworkings of peoples minds. Each 
 mind is different and equally memorable. Every charactor is is wonderfully voiced and animated. 
 They really get you into the story. The story itself is VERY well written easily one of the best 
 stories in gaming history. My only real gripe is that the controls for the PC version are not that 
 good without a game controller but, if you have one the controls are great. This is seriously the 
 best game not alot of people have played. With a version of Psychonauts on the Xbox 360 via the 
 Xbox Originals thanks to the new spring update, I think more people will play it and for only 1200 
 Microsoft Points ($15) its a good deal for a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Poost
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 27, 2007 11:44 am PT
Review:  The premise of Psychonauts is very unique. You play as Razputin, who has snuck away from the circus 
 and into a summer camp for young psychics. The counselors reluctantly begin to train him as a member 
 of the camp, sensing Raz's great potential. Throughout the adventure, you gain access to some really 
 interesting psychic powers that you can use in the real world and inside people's minds. Adventuring 
 into someone's mind is another really innovative aspect of the game. Each mind is totally unique, 
 and reflects the type of person whose mind you are traversing. Its always exciting when you know 
 you are going to enter another mind, as you never really know what to expect. In one instance, 
 you are fighting in war-torn and twisted military environment, in another, you are getting these 
 strange creatures to perform plays on stage while you try to sort out the person's thoughts. This 
 innovation is what really sets Psychonauts apart from other games. You of course have a large amount 
 of collectables to gather in each mind and throughout the camp, to help extend playtime and to 
 entice you to search every square inch of the environments. Psychonauts is just simply hilarious. 
 You can walk around amongst the various characters in the camp and hear all sorts of interesting 
 dialogue. They will often go on for a few minutes before repeating anything. With great writing, 
 voice acting, face/body animations, and lip-syncing, the characters in Psychonauts are brought 
 to life. I found myself laughing out loud throughout the entire game. This is a platformer, however, 
 and it does have its bugs. The worst of which being the very last level, where it seems the environment 
 was very hastily thrown together, as the jumps are not fluid and quite buggy. Despite that one 
 instance, the platforming throughout the game is fairly accurate and fun. The camera can take a 
 bit to get used to, as you can tell this game was made for a console. Even on a PC, it may be easier 
 to control with gamepad.
  
  The audio for this game really adds to the experience. There are many sounds to fit each mind and 
 you don't often hear repeated noises except for those associated with your powers and jumps. There 
 is also some pretty good music for most of the areas, which helps set a really good mood for the 
 environment.
  
  I highly recommend Psychonauts for anyone looking for a great laugh and a fun platformer. This 
 game is only brought down by its odd controls. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sharier
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 15, 2007 9:58 pm PT
Review:  Psychonauts is an adventure game delivered in the style of 3d Platformer. In PC, you wont get 
 many games delivered in this style. Beyond Good and Evil would be another one. So it can be easily 
 said that Psychonauts PC version is innovative. This game drew a lot of positive comments from 
 critics and fans not just because the game design is innovative, but also because it is full of 
 witty dialogues, there is a twisted off-beat plot and the artistic presentation is original. In 
 this game, you play the role of Raza psycho-detective wannabe. As a trainee in the Psychonauts 
 camp, you fight the enemies who are robbing off the minds of your friends.
  I played Psychonauts for more than 20 hours. But I did not finish it. While I picked the game based 
 on GS review, I found the game somewhat disappointing. There is a lack of driving force in it. 
 Too much focus on training; too little mystery twist in the beginning. I also dont dig platform 
 style game delivery. Such a style often require you jump from one point to another, but not being 
 able to fathom where you are standing. So to overcome a small hurdle, you might have to play the 
 sequence again and again. Plus the camera makes my head spin. Some attack commands demand mastering 
 certain controls and you have to spend sometime to do that successfully.
  The artistic presentation of this game is original, but not as appealing as many had recommended 
 it to be. I mean it does not come close to the graphic beauty of, say Syberia or The Longest Journey. 
 Yes, its rather nineties-looking; only its in 3D. However that does not mean that its bad. It could 
 be better. For instance, the faces of many characters -- including that of Raz -- look rather jaggy. 
 The game is however a showcase of very interesting characters. Its funny and every other things 
 said about the game is true. If you like platformer style game, you'll surely enjoy this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vuvussi
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 31, 2007 10:23 am PT
Review:  Tim Schafer's mind is incredible. Psychonauts is clearly one of the best game i ever played. I 
 really like how you go in to insane people minds cause there can be anything in there, don't now 
 how Tim Schafer thinks but hes brilliant.
  
  Gameplay is very similair to other platform games there are also psi powers that you learn when 
 the game progresses but to obtain the psi powers faster there are figments you can collect
  Graphics is good especially on your main game character (Razputin) but i wish the other character 
 could have the same level of detail but not a big deal.
  
  Sound is great, love the music and the voice of character could not be better.
  Environment's 
 is the thing that i love the most about this game its so crazy and confusing thats why its so good, 
 Thats Tim Schafer's mind.
  Love the characters their so cool but confusing in a way but thats mainly because their insane. 
 Still their very funny in way to just see how many dialogs each character have.
  
  Overall this is a masterpiece its just to bad that its a little short and i wish that there would 
 be a psychonauts 2 but thats not gonna happened, who nows .
  Anyone who likes platforming games like Ratchet and Clank or Super Mario must get this game. Conclusion: 
 One of the best game i ever played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jkmetalf
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 30, 2007 9:49 am PT
Review:  This was one of the better reviewed games of 2005 that no one played. Why? It was like nothing 
 else when it came out. Someone would have walked into a gaming store and think wtf is this? when 
 it was placed next to a more commercial title. Most gamers go for the safe bet. As a result, this 
 game's sales had suffered, but as of july of this month, the game has sold over 400,000 copies 
 world wide. However, don't overlook it. The game is based on the exploits of a budding psychic 
 named Ras at a summer camp designed to train psychics. The story is fairly standard coming of age 
 (saving everyone too) fare, however it has enough twists to keep you on your toes. . But, beyond 
 the basic story and the psychics, this is a game that stands apart from the rest. The creative 
 mind behind this game is none other than Tim Schafer. He was a large part of the dialogue team 
 behind Monkey Island and designed the hit adventure game Grim Fandango. If you have played either 
 of the two above mentioned games, you know that hilarious dialogue, comically twisted characters 
 and settings await you. This is one the games strongest points, the strange places and people (?) 
 that you meet in the game world. Along the way you'll face evil girl scout-like conspirators and 
 den mothers along with double crossing teachers, insane milkmen and even a lake monster. The best 
 part is not only do you get to talk to these characters, you also get to go into their minds. This 
 is where most of the game takes place. Of course, this leads to some strange environments; a 50's 
 suburb , a battlefield, a city, a disco dance hall, a large cube in space..... All with very well 
 matched music and great artwork. Graphically, this game is good. Although it won't break any polygon 
 count records and doesn't feature fancy shading techniques, its not hard on the eyes by any means. 
 Its vivid and varied color schemes are refreshing. Especially at a time when game makers opt for 
 washed out textures looking textures in bleak worlds. The sound effects are also good with support 
 for eax . The music is perfect for every single environment you go into and I personally loved 
 it. The voice acting is great so no problems there. Game play is actually pretty standard for your 
 3-d platformer. Nothing too new here. Jump, swing, fight and bounce your way through levels to 
 gain new powers. Fight boss at end of level. The camp ground itself is also of note, as you have 
 enemies to fight here as well and items to collect. As far as controls, I would strongly recommend 
 a game pad over a keyboard for a game like this. With a game pad, you can map the controls to fit 
 your playing style. A few notes; the game is officially out of print but you can find it on ebay 
 and steam. If you p. c game and have no game pad, pick one up before you before you buy this. You'll 
 thank me later. Finally, standard disclaimer of if you don't like weird games and want to stick 
 to halo 2 for vista and pay $50 a month for the online service from M$, this game is probably not 
 for you. Although I would hope that you would have a change of heart and try this out. Its a game 
 that should not be missed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: f_an
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 27, 2007 2:30 pm PT
Review:  Psychonauts is a game I've been meaning to play for some time but never got around to it (plus, 
 it's somewhat hard to find) . Coming from the creators of Grim Fandango and other classic PC games 
 like Day of Tentacle, I was pretty pumped for this game. The game, in a way met my expectations 
 but has a lot of small quirks and problems that got in the way. Don't get me wrong, this is a great 
 game but it isn't perfect.
  
  The main thing that makes Psychonauts really good is its story. I'm a fan for good stories in games 
 and this game has a well told and original storyline. It seems like the creators had to wrap things 
 up quickly because of time constraints when you're nearing the end of the game but it's still done 
 well. The voice acting and cast of characters is spot on. Another surprising aspect of the game 
 is its musical score. I thought the music was aced and not only matched the game but sounded good.
 
  
  Another good point about the game is the majority of the levels. The level designs are imaginative 
 and something that you have to experience yourself. They're very well thought out for the most 
 part and a marvel to explore. Basically, the levels consist of you going into people's minds. Eventually 
 you'll uncover a bit more of the real world around the camp but it's the minds that are the main 
 focus of the game. That being said, not all the levels are perfect and in fact is one of the most 
 frustrating points of this game. Although most levels are well done, the theater level and the 
 final meat circus level are frustrating, not funny, and just a pain in the ass. The theater level 
 nearly killed me and I had to force myself through it. Watching the bland, annoying plays over 
 and over while trying to figure out what to do didn't help either. The meat circus level is also 
 frustrating. Although, the humor isn't as dry as the theater level; it is a huge pain to get through. 
 The voices (the kid's and your evil dad) get repetitive and annoying quick, which is rare considering 
 the good voice acting that is everywhere else.
  
  Another odd weak point of this game was the boss battles. I found this really strange considering 
 the game normally plays out well when you're not fighting bosses. The bosses themselves are cleverly 
 done and are great characters. They have great imaginative designs to them but actually fighting 
 them, isn't as good. Namely the fish boss is absolutely terrible. The camera angle in one section 
 is just horrendous and other boss battles are frustrating. The weak levitation system in the game 
 which is required during some of the bosses doesn't help either.
  
  The game itself plays out well for the most part. The psychic powers are a nice touch but some 
 of them are only used in specific situations and the levitation power doesn't work too well. The 
 power of throwing things with your mind is weak and its auto-targeting doesn't work too hot. Also 
 the system for locking onto enemies doesn't work too well. The problem is that you have to get 
 way to close to the enemy before you can lock on. Because of this, I hardly use it. However, the 
 area in the gameplay that gave me the most frustration is the double jump while jumping off a pole, 
 ladder, etc. When you're on the ground, the double jump works without any problems. However, there's 
 two points in the game (the god awful ladder jumping near the end of the game) where you have to 
 double jump off of ladders and poles. This requires awkward timing that gets a while to get used 
 to.
  
  Taking aside these problems, the game still is fun for the most part. I was a big fan of the game's 
 humor. The fish's mind where you're a giant (Goggler) was amazing. The Waterloo-o level was also 
 a fun time. The actual gameplay and fighting system works out well for the most part if you ignore 
 the minor issues (that can cause lots of frustration) and the camera follows the characters well 
 for the most part. The producers have a really good style and the graphics are well done, especially 
 for a game for the xbox/ps2. The music and voice acting compliments the graphics and are top notch. 
 This is a solid game but with all the small problems like annoying boss fights and the occasional 
 frustrating level, it holds it back from an outstanding, awesome game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pako101
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 17, 2007 9:07 am PT
Review:  A completely new feel to a game and a proper story to boot. This was a unique experience and a 
 welcome change to all the been there done that that I was forced to sit with lately. A few friends 
 call it a roleplaying game but I disagree. Instead of getting great in game abilities to finish 
 the game, in this one a great degree of skill is required to master the later levels without completely 
 removing the fun of getting new skills and trying them out. Definitely a must buy for anyone so 
 bored with the current market that they want to cry. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: koolmankris
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 2, 2007 9:45 pm PT
Review:  It isn't often that I go for these types of games, unless it's a Zelda or Super Mario title, but 
 I've heard a lot of good things about this one and figured it warranted a look. I've only played 
 the demo via Steam so far, but I'm already sold on it. The first thing I have to comment on is 
 the presentation. The menus are fairly simple yet they look pretty good and are easy to navigate. 
 The graphics aren't exactly mind-blowing, but the game looks really great. Right away, you meet 
 some very distinguished and interesting characters, my favorite being Dogan (the kid with the tin-foil 
 hat) . It has a very cartoony look, with big eyes and heads, and some of the character designs made 
 me chuckle. You take on the role of Razputin, or Raz, for short. He's the new kid at a bizarre 
 and twisted summer camp with some very different features. Other kids like you come here to become 
 a Psychonaut . Psychonauts are mental soldiers, if you will. Using their mental abilities, they 
 are able to perform abilities such as telekinesis, pyrokinesis, and invisibility, to name a few. 
 But the most incredible power is also the most common. Psychonauts are able to tap into other people's 
 minds and explore their psyche. These minds you explore are basically the levels which make up 
 the game. Throughout the game you also venture into the real world, or the summer camp, to be more 
 precise. Each mind is vastly different, each with its own theme. The first mind you explore is 
 the camp leader, a military-type guy named Oleander. He's a bit of a strange fella. Inside his 
 mind, you dodge machine-gun fire, tip-toe through a big minefield, and scale a wall while avoiding 
 artillery. This will feel familiar to any platformer veteran, but the uniqueness of these environments 
 give the game a taste all its own. Throughout the minds, you collect figments , which you collect 
 to gain new abilities. You also collect many other things such as arrowheads (which are used to 
 buy stuff) and emotional baggage. It sound very weird but it's pretty fun. The actual platforming 
 is what makes the game fun. Some of this borrows from games like Prince Of Persia, in that you 
 leap across ledges, and swing on ropes and bounce on nets and trampolines. This all works seamlessly 
 and is fluid and well-done.
  The audio is pretty great too. The voice acting is pretty funny, and the music is really cool and 
 goes with the trippy visuals. The only problem I had was that some of the lesser characters could 
 get annoying at times, constantly repeating the same dialog. Still it's more than forgivable. As 
 I said the visuals are pretty appealing without being too complex. This means that a slower system 
 should still be able to adjust the game to work well, without looking like crap.
  Anyway, the environments look good but they are also very detailed and full of stuff to gawk at. 
 But since you're in people's minds, it can be unsafe to just stand around, carelessly staring at 
 the scenery, since things can be a bit unpredictable, and sometimes defy logic. One good example 
 is during the later part of the demo, when you are faced with something that looks nearly impossible. 
 A long room full of barbed wire, and wooden planks.... And they're in this turning tube, rotating 
 and turning as well. It's hard to describe but it's a very mind-twisting feat, no pun intended. 
 If you're a fan of platforming games like Super Mario or Jak and Daxter and stuff like that, you'll 
 probably find something to enjoy here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kippesd
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 30, 2007 5:25 pm PT
Review:  This will be the shortest review I've ever written as there is not really much to be said except 
 stop reading this and buy it.
  
  The story is comic genius, the voice-overs are perfect, and the protagonist of the story is just 
 a hoot to play. The graphics are perfect - style just oozes from the many varied landscapes you 
 will traverse. The settings are the most original and fun environments I've yet to experience in 
 a video game to date. The controls are spot on (I recommend using the X-Box USB if you have it) 
 feel good. The camera can be a slight problem at times, but as far as platformers go, this is about 
 the best it gets.
  
  This game is absolutely perfect in every which way. Gamespot says that Psychonauts doesn't bring 
 anything new to the table which in this case is a dumb statement. When you produce a perfect game, 
 why ruin it with adding a gravity gun? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShinGnosis
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 16, 2007 5:59 am PT
Review:  I had heard about this game for quite some time, and seen some comments about it beeing underappriciated 
 and worth playing. But I had still never really felt the urge to pick it up.
  
  Something about the graphics looked a little to childish and strange. But after seeing a top ten 
 list of the most underappriacted games of all time, with this as number one, I decided to finally 
 give it a shot anyway.
  
  And WOW - was I taken away! This is probably the best platformer to ever grace the PC! It has everything 
 - a compelling and unique story, amazing graphics, extremely high pollish, rpg-elements, excellent 
 controlls and interface, almost perfect voice acting.... it's a true work of art.
  
  The amount of effort that went into creating this title is simply amazing, there is so much original 
 thought that it's simply overwhealming. And that they've actually managed to bring forth all these 
 crazy ideas with this high level of quality is worthy of all praise I can give.
  
  In many ways this game is like the movie The Incridibles by Pixar. It doesn't matter how old you 
 are because this game delivers on so many planes and has something for everybody.
  
  All in all it's just plain fun and amazing ride - just buy it right away. It's a no brainer as 
 far I'm concerned! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Idiom
Rating: 8.2
Date: Feb 27, 2007 7:45 am PT
Review:  Is it? could it be? the best platformer on the PC!?.. Well I have no idea because this is the only 
 platformer i've played on the PC. That said the game is very good and successfully breathes lift 
 into a fairly flat genre.
  
  The Good:
  The graphics are fine, all the environments are lovingly crafted and ooze polish, everything looks 
 good and nothing feels rushed. The plot is wacky and fun, as you've probably gathered you play 
 a young Psychonaught who has adventures in peoples minds to the backdrop of mysterious goings on 
 and an unknown villan. Each mind that you enter is totally different and each one is worth the 
 effort, although some more than others.
  The adventure style plot does add context and substance to the main element of the game which is 
 platforming, which is just as well as platformers tend to be a bit drole and repetitive.
  The platforming element works really well, you can tell a lot of effort went into getting it right 
 - though you really want a gamepad (pref dual axis) .
  
  The Bad:
  its just a little tedious but thats to be expected with the platformer core. its a real shame that 
 the plot wasn't developed just a bit more, after a point its just not as gripping as it might be.
 
  
  Conclusion: 12 hours of action fun in a great game world, bring a gamepad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fisherman1990
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 23, 2007 12:55 pm PT
Review:  What I like about this game is the story and its characters; the plot is kinda wacky, and Raz and 
 his fellow Psychonauts and his enemies are hilarious. I love anything random, and this game is, 
 well, random. The dialogue is fun too. The graphics are nice; nothing innovative. But the style 
 is pretty cool; big heads, googly eyes, skinny limbs, you get the point.
  
  The audio bugs don't bother me that much in the PC version, but the combat does get pretty boring. 
 And it's really not that hard to get through the levels. However, I found it surprisingly entertaining 
 to find all the collectibles in each level. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deukalion-
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 13, 2007 8:38 am PT
Review:  It's not supring that Psychonauts would be the funniest game this decade since Grim Fandango was 
 probably last decade's funniest game.
  
  I can't begin to tell you how good this game is. It got all the things of an  
 game that you could want. Since I'm very intrested in sick and bizarre games this must be the best 
 game in that area. Then it's not that suprising that Grim Fandango was the best game last time 
 around - it really do got the sense of bizarre fun.
  
  The game starts off when a boy name Raz comes to a summer camp for people with psyhicic powers 
 even though he's not suppose to be there. Still the recognize his strong mentality and lets him 
 stay until his parents come. Without the knowledge of what there is to come the next few days.
 
  
  I don't really know how to begin to tell you how good this game is. The game takes place in the 
 summer camp, but in other platformers we usually go somewhere to do things but this game mostly 
 takes place in the brain of someone. Either it's you or those around you. You learn things from 
 people who know things by entering their minds, and it can't be much easier than that? I don't 
 mean it in such way, but I think we'd all learned everything about everything if we could just 
 jump into our teachers brain.
  
  But like I said earlier, or maybe I didn't, some minds are more delicate and sicker than others. 
 Since your part in the game is while you're around trying to learn everything you can (since you 
 only have a few days at the camp until you have to go) there is something happening around your 
 classmates. Their brains are getting stealed and no one knows who's doing it. So it's up to you 
 to sort that mess out.
  
  Most of the aspects of the game is unique and very well presented. The characters in the game are 
 probably the best part of the game. At the middle of the game you visit an a asylum with crazy 
 people (including the guy standing guard outside the asylum seems to be more out than those inside 
 the asylum) . So it really found the best way to get the laughs out of you.
  
  It's worth replaying, but maybe not a hundred times and the grapichs are great but not perfect. 
 It fits in and there's plenty of varieties never to get bored of your enviroment. Sound is perfect 
 and the tilt of the game should get a higher rate than it can have cause it really twists your 
 own mind in an unique and indescribable way.
  
  Or maybe I've just gone nuts after playing it?
  
  The length of the game gave me about 20 hours 
 of gameplay so it's not the shortest of its type. It's really more than you could have expected 
 out of a game of its type.
  
  Funniest game of the decade, that is to say alot. Anyone wanna challenge it? Didn't think so.
 
  
  If you don't play this or haven't played Tim Schafers other games. You shouldn't waste any more 
 time reading this. You should get it and play it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 43n1m4
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 22, 2006 8:24 am PT
Review:  Tim Schaefers has a history of making interesting games. Day of the Tentacle and Grim Fandango 
 are two of the best adventure games for PC - so its not entirely surprising that Psychonauts is 
 worth more than the DVD itself..
  
  I will not bore you with the long story of the game, as that will both spoil the game and be rather 
 longwinding to read through. But let me just say that the characters you meet in this game, will 
 probably stick to memory longer than you're used to.
  The humour is witty and ironic; but more importantly, it fits the story like a glove... the story 
 is perhaps one of the main reasons to play through the game. Not only will it entertain you - it 
 also has a lot more depth to it.. though, you'll have to think more abstract to get some of the 
 points.
  
  Platformers aren't really my favourite games.. normally. But its surprisingly fitting to this games 
 fast pace and quirky nature. The main character - Raz - is a psychonaut wannabe, and his overzealous 
 nature and circus upbringing goes a long way to explain why he is such a capable acrobat. Later 
 in the game you'll get som psychic powers, which in true adventure game style, is the key to some 
 puzzles (as well as boss fights) . The game never gets to hard, though. When you're in trouble a 
 piece of bacon will summon help if needed (play the game in order to get a 'logical' explanation..) 
 Maybe its kind of spoiling the experience for the more demanding players - but at the same time 
 it helps to keep the pace at smooth level. I have played through several games where the only thing 
 that stopped me, was boss battles with less-than-obvious solutions.. this games 'baconhelp' feature 
 keeps the frustrationlevel at a minimum - and its optional. The games graphic style is worth mentioning 
 as well. The use of asymmetric figures in both the characters and backdrops gives an comicbook 
 style quality to the graphics - as well as some 'attitude' (something lacking in many games) . The 
 use of vivid colours and a design that changes according to the mood of the different levels (and 
 'minds'.. for explanation, play the game..) This makes the game a changing experience where part 
 of the change is the surroundings. This may sound obvious, but compared to a lot of the games out 
 there, which has a very narrow choice of surroundings (FEAR comes to mind..) Psychonauts keeps 
 itself interesting part due to the visual style (s)
  
  A quick look of the hardware requirements:
  1) A gamepad is highly recommended. This is a platformer 
 - and they've always been better with a gamepad. 2) Graphically, the game isn't too demanding - 
 but I experienced some odd stuttering on cards with less than 512 MB of Vram - but I suspect that 
 has more to do with lack of optimizations.. either on the driver side or game side. But it should 
 run OK on most DirectX9 cards.
  
  Rest should be on the package.
  
  A quick resume: A great story and a funny platformer, lots of different challenges that doesn't 
 get too frustrating - and a visual treat. Bring a gamepad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bloodnut
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 14, 2006 12:36 pm PT
Review:  All we usually see today in arcade cloud is only console titles that most of them arent even fun 
 enough. As a Rayman series big fan Ive got to hand it to Psychonauts that it stands in my standards 
 and has a very fun originality factor such as different point of view or state of mind for every 
 level and all in all has an acceptable story line.
  
  You always get the feeling in most arcade games that even that the background\world\level changes 
 it still remains the same concept but not here! One time you can be in some simple level, the next 
 thing you know you can be some giant King Kong clone in some other city. A little of childish humor 
 here and there and all the rest is just like a pretty classic arcade game.
  
  Final word: If you liked, Rayman or Viewtiful Joe (PS2) , youre most likely to like this game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dsrarrow
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 16, 2006 2:31 am PT
Review:  Psychonauts, is by far one the best platforming RPGs i have ever played. Created by double fine, 
 Psyhconauts is a platformer where you play the part of Raz; a young, phsyic, wanna be psyconaut. 
 Who runs away from the circus to go to psychonaut camp. The story it self, however small in it's 
 scope is really entertaining.
  
  The basic gameplay consists of jumping around different peoples consciousness to free them from: 
 insanity, greed, alteregos, self censorship (and much more) . You go around collecting different 
 things, to gain power ups and better your arsenal of psychic weaponry.
  
  Sound wise the music is subtle but engaging and the voice acting is superb, the casting for this 
 game's sound track has obviously been carefully selected, and it shows.
  
  Graphicly, (as I have quite a high end PC) psyhconauts is beautiful, it enjoys a great framerate 
 even with lots going on, and each mind you enter has a distinct artistic style which really adds 
 to the atmosphere but doesn't cloud the story with flashyness.
  
  Control wise, (Reader note: I have used keyboard and mouse) it's OK, it works. But i'd probebly 
 would use or buy a pc joypad.
  
  Overall, psychonauts has something else that just makes it an amazing experience that you wont 
 regret buying. Plus you can get it on steam now, which makes it even cheaper!
  
  You won't regret it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Demonstrative1
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 14, 2006 6:48 pm PT
Review:  I'm going to say right off the bat that I'm a HUGE fan of Tim Schafer's, so this review is more 
 than likely going to be a little bit slanted just because of my predispostion to this remarkable 
 game designer.
  
  That being said, this game is INCREDIBLE (bet you didn't see that coming) . The levels themselves 
 are gorgeous and innovative, even if the way you get through them isn't. This is far and beyond 
 the most fun I've ever had playing at platformer in my life.
  
  Outside the gameplay, though, the writing and dialogue are very well done. The game is funny and 
 interesting, without having the story be overbearing or washed out. There is sort of a romantic 
 subplot, but it's more there for humor value than anything else.
  
  If you're looking for a new game for PC or XBox, GO GET THIS ONE. There's literally no reason to 
 not own it, since it's cheaper now and it's ridiculously fun. So go! Shoo! Buy it! No more reading! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mclazyj
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 25, 2006 2:08 pm PT
Review:  Psychonauts spices up the platformer genre with inventive graphics and an adventure game flair. 
 You will find yourself caught up in the story of this game from the loading screen till the ending 
 cliffhanger. Tim Schafer has again created an original property that satisfies the action player 
 and the adventure player at the same time.
  
  Psychonauts puts you in the shoes of Razputin, aka. Raz, is a young adult that is looking to tap 
 into his nascent mental powers at the famed PSI Camp for adolescents. PSI Camp is a place where 
 people with Psychic powers come to train to become Pyschonauts, agents of justice that do battle 
 with their mental powers. Raz has come to learn, but he was told that he could not attend without 
 his parents permission. Raz convinces the camp administrators to let him train while they wait 
 for his parents to show up and give him permission. The story takes you through the training of 
 a Psychonaut, until evil forces capture all the teachers and students leaving them as lobotomized 
 zombies. It is up to you to fight the forces of evil while reacquiring the brains to return everyone 
 to a normal state.
  
  Psychonauts is a visual fest for the eyes and you will not be disappointed with what you see. It 
 has a style that is reminiscent of Grim Fandango, but with a wider color palette. Each of the characters 
 you come across has a unique style. Even the bit players have distinguishing features that remove 
 any sort of monotony. Backgrounds are awash with lots of colors and shapes. There is a theme of 
 not using too many sharp angles. Everything has a rounded, if not distorted shape to show the imbalance 
 of most of the minds in the game. For instance on one level, you encounter a character that never 
 reached the limelight because of an inner demon. When you get into her mind, it looks like a stage 
 show. Everything in her mind plays out on a stage. Or on another level you learn levitation from 
 a teacher that is a 60s party girl. Her mind is like a never ending episode of Laugh-In.
  
  Psychonauts also presents a festival for the ears. Voice acting is superb and you truly feel 
 as if all the actors put a lot of effort to individualize their performances. No one takes the 
 easy route out, or phones in a performance. Richard Horvitz gives an exceptional performance as 
 Razputin. He conveys a sense of confidence while injecting a great streak of humor into the character. 
 Sound effects have also received a lot of TLC. From bouncing on a levitation ball, or throwing 
 karate chops, the sound is full and vibrant. What is surprising is that you never really notice 
 the ambient soundtrack in the background. For the most part, there is music in the background of 
 most scenes but it does not have enough presence to stick out from the other sounds. You can try 
 to make adjustments in the control panel of the game, but the music is just recorded at a low level.
 
  
  Tim Schafer is known for creating some innovative content and it is no different here. Using different 
 minds as the levels you play in, you are presented with a rather standard platformer. But you never 
 notice it, because what surrounds you never keeps your focus on the generic platform jump, move, 
 and jump formula. And the way that things are translated from textbooks to the game is quite funny. 
 Repressed memories are locked suitcases that you have to find the key to unlock their hidden secrets. 
 Psychic cobwebs represent the forgotten memories that have escaped your consciousness. It is a 
 way to relate the complex nature of the brain in a simple way.
  
  However, the game is not without its faults. Some levels towards the end are extremely difficult. 
 Save points come in the form of checkpoints which can sometimes leave you stuck when the action 
 gets a tad bit rough. Also, the language in the game can sometimes be a bit more than the common 
 man understands. It wont stop you from playing the game, but you may not get some of the deeper 
 comments in the game. It is a bit short, even with the harder stages at the end. You will probably 
 breeze through the game in about 10 hours.
  
  In the end, Psychonauts is a unique game of action and adventure. The value of the game comes from 
 its style and appearance. It will suck you in and keep you, want to know which way the story will 
 turn. The game leaves you wanting more at the end and that is the definition of a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkBelthasar
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 30, 2006 4:41 pm PT
Review:  You find yourself standing on a road that twists in and around itself like a giant knot. An endless 
 void surrounds this demented neighborhood, whose people have the composure and attire to suggest 
 they are secret agents. Their constant uttering of phrases lacking any intellectual value leaves 
 you wondering what kind of sick person's imagination you could be in and how you could possibly 
 fix it. After whipping out a trusty piece of bacon, an old man's head pops out of your right ear 
 and reminds you of your seemingly inane task: Find the milkman. All these quirks are just a small 
 part of genius Tim Schafer's latest adventure game, Psychonauts.
  
  Psychonauts begins with a young, naive boy named Raz running away from the circus where his unappreciative 
 father is forcing him to train. He sneaks into a psychic summer camp, wishing to hone his psychic 
 skills and follow his dream of becoming a Psychonaut. Just as the camp counselors, who are Psychonaut 
 agents themselves, inform Raz that he will be taken home at the request of his parents, a sinister 
 plot begins to unfold. The brains of all but two agents and campers are stolen, leaving Raz and 
 Agent Cruller, a retired Psychonaut leader, to sort out the scandal. But because Agent Cruller 
 has become too unstable in his old age to venture outside the psychic realm, he hides out in Raz's 
 brain to be summoned for brief assistance with the smell of bacon. Then Raz is left to fend for 
 himself, entering and straightening out the minds of various people as he tries to solve the mystery 
 before his parents arrive to take him home. Apart from its bizarre nature, the main plot is very 
 straight forward with few dramatic twists. The games attraction lies with the much more engaging 
 side stories, which are held together by exceptional gameplay.
  
  The innate enjoyment in Psychonauts comes from the use of Raz's psychic powers, including PSI Blast, 
 levitation, telekinesis, and pyrokinesis. As Raz earns merit badges from Agent Cruller for completing 
 tasks, he will be able to use all eight psychic abilities, which must be used strategically to 
 stabilize the brains he enters. While accomplishing his given tasks, Raz encounters enemies that 
 can be destroyed in a myriad of ways. Though nailing enemies with PSI Blast is often enough to 
 destroy them, setting them on fire, throwing them against one another, and ground-pounding them 
 into oblivion lead to an even more enjoyable experience. Additionally, Raz's levitation ability 
 allows him to roll around on a ball of psychic energy that can bounce significantly higher than 
 his default jump. Thrusting this ball over his head makes it act as a parachute, allowing him to 
 float across great distances. Telekinesis summons a hand of pure mental energy that can pick up 
 objects and throw them. However, throwing a demon against a wall and watching him explode wouldnt 
 be nearly as enjoyable without knowing its a manifestation of thought being annihilated in the 
 explosion of color. For that, the creative designers deserve our thanks.
  
  They should be praised furthermore for the conception of all ten brains Raz enters throughout his 
 adventure, all of them completely different visually and functionally. Each brain is a metaphor 
 of the owner's personality and a distinct work of art. One of the most memorable minds belongs 
 to an ex-bullfighter you encounter in an insane asylum. Entering his mind, you find yourself in 
 a congested passage standing before a sombrero-clad anthropomorphic dog. Behind you runs a cobblestone 
 path with towering walls reminiscent of a thin alley in a Spanish town. The sound of rumbling hooves 
 warns of the bull that thunders past every few seconds. Every surface in his mind, including Raz's 
 body, is the darkest possible black with flowing neon colors that outline and stream across the 
 surfaces. The fountain in the middle of a town square splashes with bright pink paint that flows 
 out and over the black landscape. It's a beautiful sight to behold that continues to captivate 
 you. The artistry continuously amazes you with the diversity of all the levels and characters.
 
  
  The music in the game is nearly as diverse and engrossing as the graphics. The mood is dramatically 
 different in each character's mind and becomes evident through a stylized song. Within the mind 
 of Napoleons continually losing descendent, Fred Bonaparte, drums and a line of horns playing 
 the melody from the 1812 Overture foreshadow the battle that Raz must win. The music is further 
 complemented by stellar voice-acting that brings the characters to life. A wide range of emotions 
 are portrayed flawlessly through the characters dialogue, allowing their genuine personalities 
 to overshadow their doll-like bodies.
  
  The realism of the characters despite their cartoon-like appearances is one of many incongruities 
 that add to the whimsical nature of the adventure and highlight some of the best script writing 
 ever. The design team went above and beyond to create a very lighthearted and comical atmosphere 
 and may shock you several times with their uncanny but genuine sense of humor. The laugh-out-loud 
 jokes get you engaged in the game at any moments where repetition may be driving you away. Nearly 
 all the characters have intensely exaggerated personalities that create the atmosphere of a stereotypical 
 summer camp. Lili, for example, has a crush on Raz and always develops a completely unrelated conversation 
 with Raz while wishing he would just shut up and make out with her. Raz, as she soon finds out, 
 can read people's thoughts.
  
  Among the unfortunate aspects of Psychonauts are the short play time and the periodically bothersome 
 camera. The game can be completed in ten to fifteen hours and ends with a scene begging for a sequel 
 that will probably never be made. The option to complete a perfect game, which requires gathering 
 all the figments and mental cobwebs in each level, gives the game more play time but feels forced 
 and repetitive. Ultimately the replay value diminishes unless you feel the need to revisit the 
 game solely for its aesthetic value. The auto-correcting camera is also a bit troublesome at times 
 when it won't allow a certain view and rotates to an awkward angle continuously, making a precise 
 jump or fall much more difficult to place. Fortunately, any other errors are minor in the scope 
 of things the game does right.
  
  In the end, Psychonauts is a masterpiece that can be thoroughly enjoyed by children and adults 
 alike. Its inventive gameplay and colorful brainscapes offer a gaming experience unlike anything 
 you've experienced before. The constant wacky humor and amusingly bizarre puzzles drive an entertaining 
 storyline that contains several morals amid the zaniness and chaos. Any sane person should buy 
 this game; Otherwise you just might need to hire a Psychonaut to sort out your mental waves and 
 help you realize what a great game you're missing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: longjohn84
Rating: 9.8
Date: Aug 16, 2006 1:40 am PT
Review:  There is simply nothing to match this game in the shops at the moment. The wierd thing is, its 
 not one of those games that you can play the demo of, or try for an hour or so and get any understanding 
 of quite how good it really is - each level is so different, so innventive that you just have to 
 play the whole thing before you can pass judgement. The gameplay is nothing special (a fun, but 
 not a revolutionary platformer) , and the graphics are not quite HalfLife2, but the design of the 
 game will simply astound you. If you were to mix together equal amounts of Eternal Sunshine of 
 the Spotless Mind, Being John Malkovitch, Time Bandits, Monkey Island, Tom Waits, Brazil, Picasso, 
 Escher and Charile and the Chocolate Factory you might, just, get an idea of how imaginative and 
 intelligent this game is, with brilliantly designed comic book environments taking you into the 
 belly of a giant Fish, into the mind of an man who thinks he's Napoleon, into the painted streets 
 of a Spanish bull run, through suburbia and a meat circus and beyond. If you like the classic Lucasarts 
 games, and miss Guybrush Threepwood, or if you just want to see a game that really shows how much 
 thought has gone into it - Psychonauts is for you. I promise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Poshkidney
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 13, 2006 9:39 am PT
Review:  Psychonauts a platform game for the PS2, Xbox, and PC I was playing it on the PC when I first played 
 this game it felt different from many other titles this game tries not to be realistic it looks 
 like it almost could get on Monty pythons flying circus. When you first look at it you think its 
 a kids game yet when you start playing it does not feel like a kids game it feels adult it does 
 with its humour and if its was a kids game it would have morals yet this just pokes fun at morals 
 and the mentally ill.
  The gameplay does vary from exploring a mental summer camp with characters with fabulous dialog 
 and hidden items and gags scattered about and that continues when you are messing about in side 
 peoples and a huge fish the gameplay from jumping from platform to platform to smashing up a city. 
 
  So far I have not found any bugs messing up the game so those delays were worth it 
  Mouse and keyboard is not the greatest way to play but play if you have a gamepad overall it is 
 a fab game better than halflife you could say
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: evil_tab87
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 7, 2006 8:23 pm PT
Review:  Psychonauts, by far is one of best platformers that I've played in years. Everything from the dialog 
 to the level design, so on, and so forth.
  
  Sound:
  The dialog is fresh and funny, Tim Schafer really gave its absolute all into writing the dialog. 
 Every character in the game has their very own personality thanks to the witty-ness of the writing. 
 The soundtrack is pretty cool as well.
  
  Graphics:
  Very creative, colors from all ends of the spectrum. Character design is great. The levels do a 
 great job of representing the character who's brain your in. With out giving too much away, I will 
 say that the further you get into the game, the more wacky the levels look.
  
  Story: 
  The Story is great. The game starts out with one of the camp counslers giving a speech when Razputin, 
 or Raz for short gets caught sneaking in. Raz ran away from his father because he hate Raz for 
 having psychic powers. Through out the course of the story, bits and pieces of Razputin's past 
 is reveled, same with all the other characters. 
  
  Gameplay:
  Nothing really innovated, but that doesn't mean its just the same run-of-the-mill plat-former. 
 You also get psychic powers at your disposal to play with. You start out with no powers, but when 
 you "clear" a consoler's brain, you are rewarded a badge with the power corresponding with the 
 consoler's test. You also can level up your rank when you collect "figments". These are images 
 inside of the person's brain that you are in. If you collect a certain number of them, you will 
 rank up a level, rank up 10 levels and you will be rewarded a power, such as, pyrokenisis, telekinesis, 
 etc. 
  
  Control: 
  Ok this is the only games downfall. Well it may differ if you play on console or a computer with 
 a usb game pad, but I had to stick with the mouse and keyboard since I don't game on the pc much 
 to warrant a game pad. It dosnt get too bad up until the end of the game where you have to get 
 passed all these obstacles and the camera is being a bastard 90% of the time. If you can get your 
 hand on a usb game pad, then you shouldn't really have an issue with the controls. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trewl
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 23, 2006 5:26 pm PT
Review:  Incredibly fun game, soo creative it was incredible, incredibly colourful, etc.. so many good party 
 to the game, laughed out loud so many times, and was always exciting to progress through the game 
 and see more cool levels and characters, and it has a reel cool story. 
  
  Psychonauts was almost the perfect game, just wasnt perfect because of a few frustrating parts 
 that were a bit confusing, which messed with the exciting flow of the game.
  
  many cool powers to play with in this game, always fun to get new powers, very unique, whole game 
 seems like it was created from scratch, nothing recycled from other games at all.. just a beautiful 
 game, buy it now! cuz i think it got low sales, which aint cool because it should be played by 
 all gamers 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raistlen007
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 15, 2006 10:52 am PT
Review:  From the witty intro to the satisfying conclusion, this action packed, character driven game will 
 satisfy anyone's desire to poke around in people's heads. The levels themselves are as interesting 
 as they are fun in probing a character's mentality.
  
  The game play itself is varied enough, and will later have you coming back to probe areas you missed 
 the first time through.
  
  The story itself is both wacky and familiar, with unseen twists turning themselves into new levels 
 to explore.
  
  The music at times seems to be a direct rip from Beetle juice and Nightmare before Christmas (The 
 composer lists Danny Elfman as one of his influences) and helps add to the unique dimension the 
 game inhabits.
  
  If you could choose to play one game this month, make sure it's this one. It gives around 35-40 
 hours of entertainment without stopping the smell the flowers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hakkans
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 10, 2006 9:08 am PT
Review:  Welcome to a game from Tim Schafer's mind. I especially said "mind" because we play this game at 
 "brains". I mean at the worlds that the people imagined. It's a strange but great subject but there's 
 not much differences between an adventure game.
  Raz escapes from home and comes to Whispering Rock Psychic Powers Camp. And he needs to be a Psychonaut 
 in a day. Yes, we try to be a Psychonaut in a day! It's not so easy, Raz knows that. Meanwhile, 
 someone starts to stole children's brains and the teachers left the camp for an Official Psychonaut 
 Business. So, we need to rescue the brains and find the "thief". And while we are trying to find 
 the thief we find ourselves as a Psychonaut.
  In Psychonauts, you enter to people's brains and complete the missions so you can continue to game. 
 While we are playing, there are enemies too. Firstly, in every brain, there are bosses. And strange 
 people that have things like hammers etc. However, they can drive you crazy. You always use your 
 psychic powers to beat bosses. Yes, psychic powers. When you rank up or end a mission, you get 
 a new psychic powers and they are really useful. You can move things, fire, create a ball that 
 lets you to jump higher, use a strange bomb, shield etc. There are 8 psychic powers, all of them 
 are useful at bosses.
  About ranking up. There are figments that you can collect in minds, PSI cards, and mental cobwebs.
 
  Yeah, that's the game and there are really good designs. I especially loved 360 degrees-turning 
 world. Also; a theater, a cube, a Mexican themed city, a game (really it's a game like chess) etc.
 
  Technical issues aren't bad. Graphics are good and these graphics really suit to this game.
  Sound is really great. Music makes you relaxed but not boring. However I think music is a bit "silent".
 
  Gameplay is normal. It really suits to your hands if you don't change.
  Let's talk about cons. Psychonauts is short and doesn't challenge you a lot. Also, there are some 
 bugs at sound.
  If you don't mind these issues a lot, Psychonauts is a must-buy adventure game. See you! I will 
 play at this 360 degree-turning brain! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cheeseman7777
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 7, 2006 10:44 am PT
Review:  the best game ever I love the graphics in the game and the cool powers 
  you get but the game is sort of hard but my favorite part was fighting the bull
  tamer and protecting 
 el odio at the same time in edgers mind my favorite
  mind was fred mind because it was like a giant chess game but the cool-
  est knight is hefty 
 knight the game had a very good use of color , pixle 
  shading ,and creativity the game was a great and the creaturers and enemys were also creative the 
 sounds were also very cool it was also 
  neat how every one had a name 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zerg681
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 30, 2006 8:18 pm PT
Review:  I found this game on the bargain bin in my local game store for very cheap. I picked it up and 
 brought it home, and I wasn't disappointed. In fact, I was shocked this game wasn't successful. 
 
  
  This game is cerebral, and relies on a lot of elements of humor and psychology. Although it seems 
 to be childish at first, the game seriously darkens as it progresses. 
  
  The storyline is incredibly powerful. Even some of the sadder pieces of the game drove my girlfriend 
 to tears.
  
  I would reccomend this game becase it's easy to play, yet very hard to master. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: babeler
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 22, 2006 12:47 pm PT
Review:  Sometimes you see the genius behind a game, doesn't matter if it's a good or a bad game. And sometimes 
 you find genius and a good game, which goes for: great team work!
  The characters: very inventive and... well... characterized. I've a bad personal memory issue (always 
 got to specify which kind of memory you're talking about when writing about computers) , that means 
 that I remember things, people and names with a lot of difficulty. But these characters, I could 
 recognize them within minutes from the start. They are well designed, and each has an outbursting 
 personality.
  The graphics: wonderful. The color palette is wiiide and well conceived, giving each area the right 
 feeling. And the models are exactly what I mean when talking about good 3D game design: you don't 
 need that incredible amount of polygons, as long as you know how to place them in the right spots. 
 Thus, this games looks good even on older computers, retaining it's original and inventive look.
 
  The gameplay: you know what variety means? I guess not, as long as you've not played this game. 
 The controls are good though not excellent, but the amount of different ways you'll use them is 
 just amazing. Plus, you've got powers! And apart from the fun that represents, that means also 
 that you'll find different ways to undergo the same adventure (not SO different, but enough) .
 
  No more to say about it. Wonderful game from one of the greatest game designers of all time (my 
 opinion...) . Do buy and play, even if you don't like platforms! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ReapX
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 14, 2006 8:19 am PT
Review:  This game is about a kid called Razputin but Raz for short. He runs away from the circus which 
 you learn a little into the game. He goes to this summer camp for kids with special powers. At 
 this camp you get to meet a couple different campers that make this game actually feel like a camp, 
 even if its a strange camp. 
  
  You meet the main guy of this camp who seems to be some kind of war person. He teaches you the 
 basics by using this door to let you into his mind. The door is the way to get into the different 
 levels which are actually just the peoples mind. Some of the levels can be funny, bizarre or just 
 normal. One of my favourite levels is the Milkman's Conspiracy one. This guys brain is full of 
 crazy shaped tracks and he is totally paranoid. The other levels are just as different then the 
 one before. In the levels you can collect different items such as emotional baggage, cobwebs and 
 other stuff. 
  
  The first day is just teaching you how to use/learn the different psychic abilities. The abilities 
 are stuff like telekinesis, pyrokinesis, levitation, invisibility, and clairvoyance. I liked most 
 of the powers but some of them were boring. After you finish the training levels you go into other 
 levels in peoples minds. The other campers start to disappear and after a bit they are all gone 
 and you have to get them back.
  
  The different characters in this game are awesome. You can go around talking to them and interacting 
 with them a bit. The graphics are really good and the texture of the levels are awesome. Everything 
 is so smooth. So the graphics are nothing to worry about. The sound has some problems. Sometimes 
 the dialog messes up, but other than that I guess that its fine. The gameplay is amazing and the 
 story is great. I loved every minute of play this game. The game was easy and it didn't really 
 give me a challenge, but I didn't mind. The game took me around 12 hours to finish so its well 
 worth it. The game can take well over 15 hours if you want to collect everything in the game. Overall 
 this game is amazing and I havent seen a better platformer game in a long time. Last good platformer 
 I played that I loved was Banjo-Tooie and this game is now my all-time favourite platformer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jcartertw
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 10, 2006 8:55 pm PT
Review:  Ok, this is the most fun I've had with a game in a long time. The game is superb from nearly all 
 standpoints. 
  
  The story is a typical kidnapping mystery on the surface, but the insanities within which you have 
 to unravel the mystery give the story a truly original feel. The level design is inspired, with 
 each successive mind very different from the last, going from bizarre to hilarious to vertiginous 
 to disturbing one right after the other. And you gotta love a main character that can go through 
 all that's thrown at him, give a shrug as if to say, "That was weird," and get right on with things. 
 
  
  The supporting characters are really well done, but disappear (with good reason) partway through 
 the game. As their interactions amongst each other and with Raz were some of the most enjoyable 
 moments of the game early on I wish they'd found a way to keep bring them back in as the game went 
 on.
  
  The graphics are phenomenal, not because of their technical achievement, which certainly is good 
 enough, but because of the artistic achievement. Again, each mind is different, and each of the 
 artistic styles is wholly appropriate for the neurosis it accompanies.
  
  My one negative on the game play side would be that sometimes it was much harder to get to the 
 next big nasty bad guy than it was to get past the big nasty bad guy... but it's entirely possible 
 that this is a symptom of an incompatibility between jumping puzzles and my thumbs.
  
  All in all, as I said this is some of the most fun I've had playing a computer game, and that's 
 the whole point for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: viruszero0
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 1, 2006 8:02 am PT
Review:  The main Character, Razputin, is one of the greatest (and funniest) characters I have ever seen. 
 The Gameplay is great, you may cast your psychic powers to burn and lift any thing! 
  The Story is a good one, you learn of all the characters pasts and find their darkest decrets. 
 Their are cool items you can buy. You can explore the areas to find secret itmes that can help 
 you get things.
  The levels are the best. They are created around the characters mental state. If they are sad, 
 their level will be sad. If they are periniod (Milkman Conspiracy lvl) , then they will have a crazy 
 level.
  I highly recommend it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mouzz
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 1, 2006 5:25 am PT
Review:  After playing shooter after shooter, and mediocre game after the other, its a real joy to see 
 game like psychonauts, breaking the routine of shooting imaginary people (not that its not fun) 
 Psychonauts brings us one incredibly hilarious story, great characters, and some of the most original 
 level design to come on the PC (and the Xbox and the PS2 for that matter) .
  Psychonauts tells the tale of a young kid named raz, he has special psychic powers, that made him 
 escape his circus life and join a camp that trains psychic kids into becoming well.. Psychonauts, 
 who are some kind of psychic special agents.
  From there the game takes you around the camp, where you meet the wacky characters that Tim Schaffer 
 came up with, not only that, you go into there minds and discover there fears, interests, and the 
 source of there psychological troubles. To talk more about the game is more like spoiling it to 
 those who havent played it yet (all 6 billion) .
  The game has a couple of problems like the fact that the game feels a bit wrong for the PC, and 
 that the gameplay could use a bit of work. But if you could ignore these small problems youre 
 guaranteed to have one the greatest gaming experience since a while, and its funny.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dyaballikl
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 27, 2006 3:57 pm PT
Review:  Eesh, so much to say about psychonauts. Such a deep game for a platformer. So, you play as this 
 sort of stowaway in this psychic summer camp, where kids learn all kinds of crazy psychic powers, 
 but of course, things start going awry, and its up to you to reverse them.
  
  Psychonauts is a very solidly built and designed game, with a very strong engine backing it up. 
 The controls are very ergonomic, with hot buttons to select your psychic powers, and the traditional 
 jump, attack, etc. A wide variety of psychic moves also helps you get into the game.
  
  During the game, you'll wind up diving into a bunch of peoples' minds, and have to sort out their 
 issues, emotional baggage, and assorted mental crap like that. The game does a very good job of 
 working these things into regular gameplay, like emotional baggage is actually suitcases and such 
 that you have to find tags for to relieve. Once you gain the ability to enter peoples' minds, it 
 adds an illusion of free-roaming, like making you think you can just go into whoever's mind you 
 want, but in the end, you have to visit them all anyway.
  
  Psychonauts is a fun game to look at, though, with very trippy artwork in most of the minds. Inside 
 each person's mind is their own little world that they live in, and they all vary greatly, from 
 a neatly packed box, to a disco party, to a twisted, tangled, crazy stairs (family guy reference) 
 kind of suberb. It's always wild to see which one you'll end up in next.
  
  And I shouldn't have waited so long to mention this, but the voice actors are very good. Not the 
 best I've ever heard, but outstanding nonetheless. They really rock at helping you feel like the 
 story is real, and that you're part of it.
  
  The length of the game is something that I feel needs work, but IMO, all platformers are too short 
 (except maybe Super Mario 64) . I beat Psychonauts in under 10 hours, and I just felt that there 
 was so much more that could have and should have been done with the story. I played through the 
 game twice, although I there wasn't really anything left to do the second time, and there are still 
 plotholes aching at me, but the ending did definitely leave room for a sequel, so I'm certainly 
 looking forward to that.
  
  So, with the recent price drop to $29.99, Psychonauts is an outstanding buy if you're a platformer 
 fan. If you're like me, and don't really get into the genre much, it's a decent-good buy and a 
 great rental, although I bought it myself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sorin_g
Rating: 9.9
Date: Feb 2, 2006 8:24 am PT
Review:  Well, how should I begin?
  
  I had no idea about Psychonauts before I read the game review in Level Magazine [Romania] . The 
 first impression was a big "wow", just looking at the screenshots and it became a double big "wow" 
 after reading the text.
  
  That moment I knew this was the game I had been waiting for so long. An "inocent", but thrilling 
 game, something that remembered me of "Beyond Good and Evil", another "Must play" that most of 
 us didn't actually. Well, I did and I was very excited and well entertained by BGE.
  
  There are not many words to describe the action in Psychonauts. Everything is just perfect... This 
 game has no mistake. Remember when Nadia scored the first 10 in the history of gymnastics? The 
 referees said: "Oh, my God, this girl made no mistake. What should we do? And they gave her a 
 1.00, not a 10 (technical problem) .
  
  I installed "Psychonauts". The third "wow". I am Raz, I'm fine with it, I feel pretty cool. I find 
 myself in a special summer camp, where kids with special brain abilities are Psycho-trained. Cool!
 
  
  I complete the Basic Braining without breathing. The action has an intense power and the gameplay 
 is very addictive. The humor here is the best. Just talk around and you will see.
  
  The colours fit perfectly! Imagine you're sleeping and you have a dream of Alice's Wonderland. 
 Well, you wil certainly find it here. Puppy Love? Of course, we have that too. Scavanger hunting 
 for acrobatic Raz? How could it not be here? 
  
  The feeling is that you, the player, are a truly psychonaut and this feeling does not weaken along 
 the gameplay. The storyline is full of humor, tonic ideas and crazy colors. More to discover yourself...
 
  
  The whole camp-for-braniacs idea is really genius.
  
  The game of 2005, no doubt!
  
  Miss it and you won't be missed! :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zymase
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 29, 2006 1:28 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Great writing, dialogue and voice acting, characteristic of a Tim Schafer game; very 
 creative throughout with diverse and intriguing level design; an ideal rental.
  
  The Bad: Seems padded near the end to increase length artificially; short game overall, clocking 
 in at twelve to fifteen hours; little replayability.
  
  Taking place at a summer camp for psychically gifted youngsters, Psychonauts places you in the 
 role of the protagonist, Raz (short for Rasputin) , voiced by Richard Steven Horvitz, who also provided 
 the voice for Invader ZIM in the eponymous cartoon. The voice work throughout, in fact, is top-notch: 
 each character has been well cast, and with help from excellent writing, Psychonauts also has above-average 
 amount of character development.
  
  The level design is the real star of Psychonauts. Each level presents a unique visual style while 
 maintaining platforming gameplay mechanics throughout. Since each level takes place inside someones 
 psyche - and the entire cast is quite a distance from normal - this leads to some intriguing and 
 truly unique experiences. All of the psychic powers Raz earns throughout the game are put to good 
 use in the levels, and as many enemies and situations can be handled by different methods, this 
 opens the gameplay up a bit. The game has several interesting puzzles, some of which are witty 
 head-scratchers, while others are frustratingly repetitive, obvious, or just annoying. In fact, 
 the only drawback of the gameplay is that some of the platforming mechanics become too repetitive: 
 swinging on poles, double-jumping, shimmying along ledges nothing out of the ordinary here, though 
 the levels themselves and overall design of the game are anything but ordinary.
  
  As you might expect, the humor characteristically found in Tim Schafers games is here in abundance, 
 from witty one-liners to offbeat humor. This game will make you laugh out loud more than once, 
 which really says something considering its a ten to fifteen hour adventure with little replayability. 
 Tim Schafer and his development company, Doublefine, definitely still know how to make good games. 
 Overall, Psychonauts is brief, but with a fair amount of challenge, and a gameplay experience that 
 should not be missed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ParkCarsHere
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 23, 2006 7:40 am PT
Review:  ----Summary at the bottom for you lazy folks ;) ----
  
  This is one of the most, if not the most, underrated games of 2005. It sold very poorly due to 
 the fact that it was a new company (Double Fine Productions) and because it was a TOTALLY original 
 game - I'm still trying to find something that wasn't totally different from any other game made 
 to date.
  
  Psychonauts starts you out as Razputin (Raz) , a psychonaut-wannabe (think of psychonauts as marines 
 in our army) who is going to a camp to train his psychic abilities. His past is hazy, and as you 
 progress through you'll be learning more about his past while helping other people sort out their 
 own problems in their minds. This game takes place in two places: Real world and the Brain world. 
 In the real world you gather arrowheads (money) , talk to other camp-goers, buy things at the store, 
 and explore. In the Brain world you'll be killing censors and other monsters while trying to sort 
 out different people's "emotional baggage" and collecting other things in the brain to help you 
 advance in rank (there are 100 ranks in all.. if you collect EVERYTHING, which is extremely hard) . 
 
  
  This game is also a funny game: randomly throughout levels or while talking to other people you'll 
 definately find things that will make you crack up laughing, even at random points... I wont say 
 any more than this, but if you've been looking for a game that can make you laugh, this may be 
 it. (Although the humor can be a bit stupid at some points...)
  
  This is kind of a Platformer game, so you'll be running around collecting things, getting to the 
 end, and fighting a boss in each level. The game's fighting is very unique... First, you can attack 
 with your "mind fist" (Not the actual word but I call it that ;) ) which is just a mental projection 
 of your fist.. and that's pretty dangerous. The next attacks you can have all all mind powers (think 
 spells or force powers) that use up mental energy. These can be from as well-know to us gamers 
 as levitation or telekinises, or some other ones such as one that shoots out a beam of mental energy, 
 and another that erupts an enemy in flames. I don't know all of them due to the fact that I haven't 
 beaten the game yet... but I am far enough in to tell you that all the psychic powers are useful 
 and just plain fun to use!
  
  The graphics are very good, sometimes too good. I've had no problems running F. E. A. R., yet sometimes 
 this game will start to slow-down on me yet, and I'm not sure why. However, this only happens when 
 you're collecting tons of things and hasn't happened while fighting, so it's more of a small annoyance 
 than anything else.
  
  The value of this game depends on you, if you love this game so much you'll want to replay it over 
 and over, but there isn't new content or anything different (unless you plan on trying to collect 
 every item) that will really want you to replay the game. However, since this is a great game the 
 first time through, you wont be disappointed.
  
  ---- Summary -----
  Gameplay - An amazing blend of platformer and action, and a wholly original game that adds great 
 gameplay and a good (and funny!) storyline for all gamers.
  
  Graphics - Good, but not revolutionary graphics, that helps build the game very well. Graphics 
 don't have to be revolutionary to be great, and this game showed this well.
  
  Value - It probably wont get you to replay it many times, but the first time through is a great 
 enough experience for this game to be worth every penny, espcially since the game is cheaper now 
 that it's been out for more than 6 months.
  
  Overall - Buy this game. It's an original game which we don't see many of any more (Final Fantasy 
 1-12, Ranbow Six 1-4, Call of Duty 1-2... etc) , and we should buy this game just to show game companys 
 that we do like to see original games once in a while! This game has great humor and action throughout 
 the game, blended in together with a great storyline - this game is must own for anyone who wants 
 a good and original game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctor_kaz
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 22, 2006 11:26 pm PT
Review:  The PC doesnt have much in the way of good platformers. Theres the Prince of Persia series, and 
 then theres this game, Psychonauts. Psychonauts isnt just good for being a PC platformer though. 
 Its a terrific game in its own right, and its one of the best three or four games to arrive on 
 the PC in 2005. On top of solid gameplay, it has great characters, great music, funny dialogue, 
 and a huge assortment of outrageous, excellent levels. This is one that should not be missed, and 
 regardless of whether youre a fan of the genre, you should buy it.
  
  I should start this review by saying that I normally dont like platformers, and I hardly ever 
 play them. I wasnt a huge fan of Prince of Persia: Sands of Time, and I never liked any side scrollers 
 on any platform. If I like a platforming game as much as this one, then it means a lot. This one 
 seems easier than normal, and I had little problem picking up and playing it. The game is pretty 
 forgiving, and it is very generous with checkpoints. This might make it too easy for some folks, 
 but for me, it was perfect. I should also point out that I have a nice dual analog gamepad. With 
 a mouse and keyboard, this game might be more frustrating.
  
  The gameplay seems to be pretty standard fare for platformers. You jump a whole lot. You collect 
 stuff and search for hidden items. You climb poles, swing from branches, and punch stuff or engage 
 in basic combat. You gain special powers throughout the game, like telekinesis, invisibility, and 
 levitation. The gameplay and the levels have a lot of variety to them, and level design is very 
 solid. There is a lot to do on every level, if you want to find all of the items on it. 
  
  Overall, Psychonauts is not a very hard game, but its not so easy that its boring either. Minimally 
 completing levels isnt very hard, but trying to find obscure items can be. If you screw up, you 
 usually revert to a very recent save. Or, at worst, lose one of your lives, which you have plenty 
 of. Most boss battles require a couple of minutes of trial and error before you figure out what 
 youre supposed to do. This is one of those rare games that also has no bad levels. Every one seems 
 to have been exhaustingly play tested to ensure that its not overly tedious or frustrating. The 
 controls are nearly perfect, except for the occasional camera problem. Because of the games dazzling 
 style, its easy to overlook how solid it is in the gameplay department. This is an excellent, 
 highly polished game.
  
  The most memorable feature of this game, however, is its highly creative and colorful variation 
 of levels. Psychonauts has a bunch of ingeniously twisted levels that will blow your mind, and 
 each of them has a totally different theme. The first area you will explore is the Psychonauts 
 camp, which is in the real world. Its relatively normal, but theres still a lot to explore 
 and a lot of goodies to collect. Next, you will enter the minds of the camps instructors for training. 
 Its impressive how each of these levels manages to capture the instructors personalities. The 
 highlight of this sequence is the levitation instructors mind, a huge, loud, bright and colorful 
 disco dance club. After your training, youll delve into the minds of those who need mental help. 
 Each of those levels always reflects some conflict or torment that you have to sort out. There 
 is usually a problem to solve and then a boss battle at the end. Psychonauts may not be the most 
 advanced game graphically, but it more than makes up for it with atmosphere and some of the best 
 artwork of any PC game ever made. The game has a huge variety of looks to it and because of that, 
 youll never tire of looking at it.
  
  In the audio department, the game excels once again, although it does have a couple of minor bugs. 
 Specifically, the audio cuts choppy sometimes during cutscenes. But when its working, it works 
 very well. The voice work is cinema quality, and so is the music, which changes for every area 
 and fits each theme very well. The game has a terrific presentation that is hard to match on any 
 platform.
  
  For an action game, Psychonauts is pretty long. You could probably breeze through it in 12-15 hours, 
 but with all of the exploration and collecting you can do, this game can easily top 20 hours or 
 more for you. There is a lot to see and do and you wont get bored with it through the very end. 
 This is one of those games that puts to shame 6 or 8 hour action games that have become commonplace 
 in the industry. It shows that you can produce a quality product that can be more than just a rental. 
 Its a damn shame that gamers didnt reward the developers by buying more copies of this excellent 
 game, because they deserve that reward. On your PC, its easily worth it for you to grab this game, 
 even if you normally dont care for platforers or console action games. Psychonauts was easily 
 one of the best games of 2005. It has everything that you could ask for. Solid mechanics, good 
 controls, excellent level design, good length, good story, and excellent production values. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: priest17
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 10, 2006 9:30 am PT
Review:  as I already wrote its one of those games u need to play to apresiate it. The game is just fun 
 to play whith its funny charecters, histerical storiline, great music and voice acting and just 
 a lot of stuff to do. U can just listen to the dialogs that kids r talking on the camp and ure 
 left laughing ure ass off. the game is filled with funny lines that will leave u gasping for ear 
 because of all the laugter turing the game.
  The story is that ure a 10 year old kid whos run away from the cirkus (ha the tables r turn) to 
 join the camp that traines psychonauts. But if ure in a camp full of psychic kids theres bound 
 to go something wrong. Everyones brains get emm... stolen and ure left to save the day. The story 
 gets pretty compleks with u wandering around peoples minds and other whacky stuff hapening.
  Now on to the gameplay: there r the usual platformer stuff (jumping etc) and then theres all ginds 
 of cool mental powers u get turing the game (personal favorite pyrotech)
  So to wrap things up psychonauts is a great game and I recomend this game for everyone platformer 
 fan or othervise 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spinningwheel
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 4, 2006 1:16 am PT
Review:  Psychonauts is the kind of wierd thing you expect from Tim Schafer. Afterall not many people could 
 have though of a game that sports children for main characters and whose subject matter is noneother 
 than psychoanalysis, and yes the kind you won't feel comfortable intoducting a 10 year old child 
 to. So in case you are wondering, this game is not for kids and at many levels it could be best 
 described as a mature game (if all you shield your kid from is sex and violence, then disregard 
 that last comment as I mean mature in concept and subject and not those other things) .
  
  I will skip over the technical details. You probably know by now that the game is about the little 
 psychonaut Raz who dreams of being a psychic special agent. The true meat of the game lies basically 
 in unprecedent level design. Most of the levels take place inside the minds of different characters 
 and by so each one is unqiue and very intelligently designed to reflect the psychological troubles 
 of that character. One level takes place inside the mind of a descendent of Napoleon suffering 
 from being overshadowed by his ancestor, and the level takes place entirely on a game board on 
 which the poor man etenrally battles Napoleon, and your job is basically to help him win to rid 
 him of his inferiority complex. Another level takes place inside a paranoid man who believes completely 
 in conspiracy theories, this level is so smartly designed with some of the most hilarious dialogues 
 in the game that it would be worth it to buy the game just for that one. Another level, and one 
 of my personal favorites, is the Godzilla level as I like to call it, where you go inside the mind 
 of a troubled giant fish which is in reality afraid of you more than you could have possibly thought. 
 You walk around its mind basically like Godzilla's attack on Tokyo. You probably got the idea by 
 now; Psychonauts has some really smart level design far beyond anything you could have seen in 
 a platform before, with a subject that completely and entirely new to gaming.
  
  That being said, I have learnt to expect only the best from Mr. Schafer and his team of talented 
 designers. In the matter of fact, I have to confess I expected abit more. The plot of the game 
 kind of dies out near the end giving us no memorable ending (though kind of hints at a sequel) . 
 The characters started rich, but as you progressed through the game simply no more flesh was being 
 added to them and so the experience was abit dismaying for those of us who got used to the great 
 characters created by Schafer in his LucasArts days. The platform gameplay also inherited alot 
 of the frustrations of the genre such that I found myself on many occassions throwing my gamepad 
 on my desk. 
  
  That being said, the game is easily the best platformer I have ever played. The music and voiceacting 
 was outstanding with Schafer once again collaborating with composer Peter McConnell who made the 
 incredible soundtrack of Grim Fandango. The Graphics of the game are quite beautiful though they 
 don't translate well to screen captures. The game is generally fluid on a medium gaming rig at 
 800x600 and if you feel your gear can handle it you can pump the resolution higher. The surround 
 sound works fine if you have Audigy or some other surround speaker system/card. 
  
  Its great to see Tim Schafer continuing to make excellent games. It has been a long wait to this 
 one, and we can only hope the next game will come sooner despite the difficulty he is probably 
 having adopting his original games to the current market structure. One can only hope that we are 
 yet to see his best work and I for one am looking forward to the next in line. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phoenixan_akrau
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 22, 2005 12:52 pm PT
Review:  I first heard about this game on the show X-Play, and I really wanted to try it. One day, I saw 
 it at Media Play for half-price. (The original price was $30, but it was slashed in half.) Upon 
 seeing it, I grabbed it, bought it, and took it home. The box was a little dusty, but that didn't 
 discourage me.
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics are amazing and original! I liked the fact that everything looked more complex and 
 drawn rather than having attempts at realism. I felt like I was in a cartoon like Invader Zim, 
 which was fitting knowing who voiced Raz.
  
  Sound & Music:
  I believe that the voice-acting was well done. I enjoyed the music too, and it fits all the different 
 environments perfectly. And music just compliments the mood of everything.
  
  Game-Play:
  Very original! I've never seen anything else like this, where there's so many varying types of 
 game-play! There's so many different types of interaction in the game. Sometimes, you'll get funny 
 reactions from the characters, or you'll unlock secrets to the story. Another thing I loved is 
 that, I encountered no glitches! No flying out of the level into a void, like I have in so many 
 other games. No getting stuck and having the restart areas. No freezing or being kicked out into 
 the desktop.
  
  Story:
  Also very original and different! And it was set alongside the game-play so well. Everything you 
 were doing in the game helped to add to the storyline, which I liked.
  
  Overall:
  I suggest that you buy this game if you find it. There's plenty to do in this game, and I'm still 
 replaying it and discovering a few new things every time, and I'm still having fun while doing 
 so. You'll also get a good laugh from what the characters might do or say. There's plenty of different 
 moods, from humorous to sad. This game is definitely worth a try if you've never played it before. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: s0cks1985
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 9, 2005 1:11 pm PT
Review:  These days a lot of games are all about the amazing life like graphics. The gameplay is shoddy, 
 and un-involving. Usually I get bored far too quickly and tend not to complete them.
  
  The last game which really got me hooked was Half-Life 2 and that's what? A year old now? It's 
 very frustrating.
  
  Anyway, I read about Psychonauts here on Gamespot so I thought wha tthe heck!? And went and purchased 
 me a copy. Lets skip to the chase. First impressions were very good. OK the graphics are definitely 
 not "next-generation" with a lot of stretched textures to keep the memory usage down. BUT! That 
 is a good thing. All graphics cranked up and it runs beautifully. You don't have to worry about 
 tweaking a setting here and there just to make it playable. The characters and voices are extremely 
 well matched and everyone has there own interesting and kinda funny personalities. The gameplay 
 is easy to learn, and the keyboard/mouse controls are very easy to use, so no need to spend money 
 on a controller. The game itself is rather fun and quite amusing. Most parts are fairly simple, 
 but some will get you a little frustrated. If you get stuck there is always your psychic master 
 on hand to offer tips at any time.
  
  Basically this game is fun. And because it is fun you get hooked. The story line is well thought 
 out but I don't think it'll have you guessing and pondering. The game doesn't require much mental 
 thought (how ironic) . Though it can be interesting working out how to defeat an enemy.
  
  It was worth the money. Took about 14hours to complete and I enjoyed it. Its a very refreshing 
 change from the usual junk these days.
  
  Buy buy buy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Boberson
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 7, 2005 9:10 am PT
Review:  Psychonauts for the PC is very fun despitie the fact that you have to use a keyboard and mouse, 
 that is unless you have a game controller. You play the game as Ras whos lifes ambition is to become 
 a psychonaut. So you run away from your home, which happens to be the circus, and join a summer 
 camp to begin your trainning. Soon some of your fellow campers become brainless and it is up to 
 you to find out want is going on. the game is a platformer and most of the levels are within peoples 
 minds and they are as crazy and fun as the people themselves. gameplay is solid. it has a very 
 funny very good story. the only problem with the game is that once you are done with the game that 
 is it there is no multiplayer or anything to kepp the game going after you finish it except to 
 play it again. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Charbo00
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 28, 2005 7:16 am PT
Review:  Psychonauts is a great platformer game for PC, especially since there arnt to many. You start the 
 game in a camp for psychic kids where you learn most of the stuff you will need to know. The levels 
 each take place in a persons mind, and each looks differant and has some new stuff. As you go throught 
 the game you can get more powers to help you on your adventure. This certainly isnt the longest 
 platformer, but its not to short either and should keep you entertained for a while at least. The 
 gameplay is great with keyboard and mouse or a gamepad (which i prefer) and the graphics are very 
 nice. The game is also pretty funny in parts which is good as well. If you are looking for a nice 
 platformer game for PC, look no further than Psychonauts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kicken
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 19, 2005 2:21 pm PT
Review:  yes is uniquness even a word? not that it matters, because its just as loony as this game. Psychonauts, 
 which Ive been playing for the PC, has really been a good experience, you start off as a weird 
 looking boy, whos in summer camp, and all the kids have psychic powers. but then you have to become 
 a *psychonaut* which is like the CIA, and save the world! but what really is the bread and butter 
 to this game is its gameplay. your psychic powers are just awesome, you have shoot people, burn 
 people, bounce and jump high, throw people, and become invisible. and the cut scenes are funny 
 and good. I docked points because the graphics are *good* but not amazing. but maybe I shouldnt 
 do that because my PC sucks and I have to put the graphics on low (and they still look awesome) 
 and I like how you can always ask your mentor what to do incase you get stuck, which is awesome, 
 so theres never a letdown where you really get in a pickle, so buy this game! for Xbox or PC. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: willroberts
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 16, 2005 1:22 pm PT
Review:  there are no words that can descibe how good this game is. Well, there are but I'm to lazy to write 
 them. Let me put it this way: if I ever meet the guy who didn't give psychonaunts at lest a 9.0, 
 I'll... um... do bad thing to him. yeah, that'll work. what?! it has to be at lest a 100 word? I'm 
 going to write the word "cheese" a lot. Chese cheese cheese cheese cheese cheese cheese cheese 
 cheese cheese cheese cheese cheese cheese cheese cheese cheese cheese cheese cheese cheese cheese 
 cheese cheese cheese cheese cheese cheese cheese cheese cheese cheese cheese cheese cheese cheese 
 cheese cheese cheese cheese cheese cheese cheese cheese cheese cheese cheese cheese cheese cheese 
 cheese cheese cheese cheese cheese cheese cheese cheese cheese
  
  note. this is my first review, which is why it's so smelly and green. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackrivergod
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 16, 2005 1:20 pm PT
Review:  This game really surprised me. It is just soooo good. It has the colourful cartoon look and crazed 
 humour of point and click PC classics Day of the Tenticle and Sam and Max combined with the fiercly 
 addictive 3D gameplay of Mario 64 and Starfox Adventures. Some of the more bizzare levels such 
 as the search for the Milkman had me in stitches whilst the mildly challenging puzzle element and 
 involving story had me coming back for more and more. This is simply the best 3D platform/adventure 
 game available on the PC. Requires a full monty PS2 joypad clone for maximum enjoyment. Genius! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lovegreen
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 11, 2005 12:29 am PT
Review:  Being a Psychonaut certainly seems to be a much funnier and more challenging job, than the somewhat 
 related occupation of being an astronaut. In stead of going to Outer Space, you get to visit peoples 
 inner-spaces, by journeying into their mind to solve their problems and mental ilnesses.
  
  As a young Psychonaut, you start off at your school and begin "basic braining". Various teachers 
 will let you travel into their minds to teach you the mental skills, such as levitation (floating) , 
 telekinesis (moving stuff with your mind) , pyrokinesis (setting stuff on fire) and invisibility. 
 Later you will need to solve the mystery of whats going on at the school, and save the other students 
 from an evil plot. 
  
  Each mind you encounter takes form as a completely different level, reflecting the personality 
 of the owner, and along the course of the adventure you will get (in-) to some of the crazies locations 
 and minds you can imagine (pun intended) . 
  
  As a few examples, you will be helping a paranoid schizophrenic, whose mind takes form as a twisted 
 suburb where the streets tangle and bend upside down, in a logic and gravity defying way. Another 
 level takes you into the mind of a huge psychic fish (!) . For some reason you are 200 feet tall 
 in this mind, and can go on a Godzilla like Rampage. A third level finds you in "Black Velvetopia" 
 trying to free an artist of his all-consuming obsessions with an angry bull.
  
  The minds and locations have a truly huge variation all the way through the game, and you are always 
 looking forward to the next mind you are going to visit. Graphically the game is up to par with 
 some of the prettiest games out there, but what really makes Psychonauts stand head and shoulders 
 above the competition, is its imaginative levels, varying gameplay and crazy off-beat humor. 
 
  
  This is what makes Pschonaut an instant classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spirit_014
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 10, 2005 4:03 pm PT
Review:  Psychonauts for the PC is very fun despitie the fact that you have to use a keyboard and mouse, 
 that is unless you have a game controller. You play the game as Ras whos lifes ambition is to become 
 a psychonaut. So you run away from your home, which happens to be the circus, and join a summer 
 camp to begin your trainning. Soon some of your fellow campers become brainless and it is up to 
 you to find out want is going on. the game is a platformer and most of the levels are within peoples 
 minds and they are as crazy and fun as the people themselves. gameplay is solid. it has a very 
 funny very good story. the only problem with the game is that once you are done with the game that 
 is it there is no multiplayer or anything to kepp the game going after you finish it except to 
 play it again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thiefGarrett
Rating: 8.7
Date: Sep 19, 2005 11:56 pm PT
Review:  Although Psychonauts doesn't offer anything new in terms of core gameplay, its presentation is 
 phenomenal. The characters are unforgettable and the level designs are amazing. If you are a fan 
 of stylish, clever games with a well written script and loads of atmosphere, you must play Psychonauts.
 
  You play as Raz, who has just snuck into a summer camp for psychically gifted children. The game 
 starts off with you learning basic skills like how to fight, and how to levitate. We soon learn 
 that the other children at camp are having their brains stolen from them. With the two camp counselors 
 away on official Psychonauts business, it's up to you to unravel the mystery and retrieve the brains.
 
  Part of the game takes place around the campgrounds, which is pretty limited, but there are many 
 little snippets of entertaining dialog provided by your fellow camp goers. The rest of the game 
 occurs within others', as well as your own, minds. This is where the game truly shines. Each mind 
 has its share of mental cobwebs, figments, emotional baggage, and secret vaults. While the first 
 three of these are pretty much optional to collect, the vaults contain slide reels which provide 
 some insight into the character's mind.
  As well, each mind has its own feel to how it plays. You'll delve into a paranoid mind to find 
 the milkman, only to discover that faceless government agents, posing as sewer workers and grieving 
 widows, are after him as well. Another mind is an homage to Godzilla movies, where you get to stomp 
 around the city while destroying buildings and fighting tanks. There's even a level which depicts 
 Fred Bonaparte playing a board game against his ancestor Napoleon (yes, the general) . Fred is apathetic, 
 so you must roam the French countryside (on the playing board) to recruit units for his army in 
 order to win the match.
  Although this game is gorgeous to look at and a thrill to play, there are some technical problems. 
 The camera angles are sometimes a hindrance, and often a change in angle will mean a change in 
 controls, which can lead to some missed jumps. As well, the camera sometimes likes to hide behind 
 walls, meaning you can't see anything at all. There's also the question of when you can double 
 jump. For instance, you can't execute a double jump if you're falling from a high platform. However, 
 these little technical gripes pale in comparison to the overall work, and aside from a handful 
 of frustrating moments this game is just fun to play.
  Finally, not enough can be said about the sound in this game. Effects from rolling on a levitation 
 ball to the robotic drone of censors could hardly be better. The music itself is nearly perfect, 
 with songs ranging from laid back slide guitar ditties, to quirky up tempo pieces reminiscent of 
 Danny Elfman's work with Tim Burton.
  Psychonauts is one of those games that's hard not to like. It's clever, it's stylish, and it's 
 relative ease makes it accessible to a wide audience. This is as much a work of art as it is a 
 video game, and anyone who sees video games not as a diversion but as a form of entertainment will 
 likely agree. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: questclub
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 6, 2005 8:06 pm PT
Review:  If you need some smart talk about the game - go to Gamespot review. There you have it.
  I'll make it simple. I finished this game three times. And going to play it again. Just right after 
 I finish off this review.
  
  Psychonauts is your non-typical platform game. Here you have everything from twisted daisy neighbourhood 
 to bloody steak circus, from Tomb Raider acrobatics to beyond Grim Fandango humour, from hard-to-forget 
 level designs to brainstorming game play.
  You know, I love this game.
  
  You get great graphics suitable for almost any video card - a whole bunch of extra options so you 
 can tune your game to match your desires. An OK musical score sets a right mood for your above 
 average mental adventure - but nothing special otherwise. Game interface might have been slightly 
 different but not bad. Controls leave much to be desired for keyboard players but with time one 
 gets used to it - at least I did. Platformers will find it easier using joysticks. So, from technical 
 point of view it's smooth and playable after you tortured your graphics options and rearranged 
 your control keys.
  
  Most levels in Psychonauts are set inside a human brain except Summer Camp walkarounds and training 
 obstacle courses. These so-called mental battlefields might be quite a shocker - like famous Milkman's 
 neighbourhoods, Lungfishopolis or Waterloo Fields. But a great plus for Psychonauts is its characters, 
 well written dialogues, great acting and easy attitude. This is my first time when game so perfectly 
 blends comedy and game play.
  
  Psychonauts feels quite lengthy while you're playing it but it's not. One would complete it in 
 some 15 hrs., most of which you'll spend on item collecting. Sometimes the game draws you into 
 a typical jump-and-run routine, but with each new cut-scene you understand it's worth it. Double 
 Fine Productions created a light-paced platform adventure with a quick start and a long ending 
 with a whole bunch of great fresh ideas set around funny plot and on the spot gameplay. That's 
 it - I want play some psycho stuff. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MasterMarcus
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 12, 2005 12:32 pm PT
Review:  Tim Schaefer and his collaborators have succeeded at cooking - again - a wonderful cartoony medium 
 for everyone. Though Psychonauts doesn't revolutionize the genre, it exhibits interesting new twists 
 as well as older ones more twisted, rehashing brilliantly a platformer unfortunately overlooked 
 ( partly due to this PC version & PS2 one delayed ) . You play as Raz ( Razputin ) in a summer camp 
 of potential psychics overwatched by few elder.... psychonauts, indeed. He's about to embark on 
 the minds of many characters involved in a devious plot to dominate the world by someone ( you'll 
 know soon enough in the game ) who steals the other children's brains. Combined with some exploration 
 in the real world, each big level inside a mind is truly unique with its own artistry and imaginative 
 layouts for a total of 15 hours of pure platforming.
  
  At evidence, the fluidity of the gameplay shows a good amount of polish: the navigational experience 
 throughout the game is user friendly, boasting easy to use functions and moves around for an excellent 
 combo of many successful bindings of the genre. They did the best possible for the keyboard and 
 mouse, but typically a ''console'' game such as this requires a good controller, although if you 
 choose to stick with the keyboard, as a good PC player you won't have any problems at all to complete 
 the game once past the learning curve. All that comes at the cost of some camera problems in dead 
 ends and bottlenecks. It's not unusual to witness said camera glitches in many excellent games, 
 it just could have been tested more thoroughly. They can be irritating sometimes.
  
  The stronger selling points remain its offbeat humorous conversations and out of this world level 
 design. However, we can sense outright some questionable balance optimization and calibration, 
 such as unchallenging combat: no enemy is exceedingly difficult to beat. The successive ballets 
 rely on a strange mix of walk in the park and harder jumping puzzlings in the ending parts that 
 may become frustrating - namely in the Circus. In fact, the challenge is in the acrobatics to reach 
 the goal, not the goal itself ( boss ) . Velvetopia is a superb level that may be confusing ( you 
 get the Confusion power there to do the same to your enemies ) ; then again the feeling provided 
 by the touchy atmosphere gives all the fun factor needed. In the end, the mid game brains to invade 
 may be the most brilliantly presented, like the Milkman Conspiracy - but all of them spur innovative 
 layouts fun to toggle with.
  
  Tired to collect psitanium and figments??? A word about collecting: yes, Psychonauts is a paradise 
 of overarching collecting & platforming to the detriment of combat; so if you're negatively depressed 
 vis -- vis older mechanics of the genre, to constantly nab goodies, beware to live your worst nightmare. 
 But what a beautiful nightmare to tackle..... The interactions always stay fluid, for an even voyage 
 that never fall into boredom.
  
  The sheer beauty of each level is to die for, including various and to the point blending of pastel 
 coloring, hues, and design. How can not feast the eyes with the rendered background texturing of 
 light-in-the-sky Milkman ( a dysfunctional neighborhood in the sky as we would imagine if being 
 a deranged, retired delivery-man ) ; the funny lighting in Gloria's theatre ( dark/light choices 
 in there ) ; or Velvetopia's darker hues nicely matching the Spanish feeling. Furthermore, some 
 neat special effects enhance the solid animation throughout, especially when using psi powers, 
 always primordial, or the Palm MegaBomb, scarcely useful albeit dazzling to see ( cool ripple effect 
 and sounding ) .
  
  But, there's always a but, not everything's perfect as the main graphical ''flaw'' on the PC version 
 render it almost unjustified - compared to consoles - considering the hardware's higher capabilities: 
 the low polygon count, which is the same than the XBox version. Again, this is a near direct port 
 as we see more nowadays. No wonder why PC versions tend to score lower: some multi-platform titles 
 offer very little enhancements when ported to the PC, which is the exact case here ( budget cuts, 
 deadlines, laziness? ) . The game is savvy, beautiful, vivdly colored, yet the lower polygon count 
 - as we see characters closely, to be hardly rounded like 2001ish - is not to be overlooked by 
 recent standards. In no way though, does this alter the otherwise boldly surreal experience  la 
 Picasso.
  
  A professional audio score pleasantly surrounds our ears, at delivering an exquisite mix of tracks 
 coupled with overall sounds adequately tuned. Consequently, the bulk of voiceovers can be appreciated 
 the same way too, despite some stereotypical whining from children that may irritate over time. 
 This also depends of the player's personal level of tolerance about distorted screamings. Charge!!!!!!
 
  
  Do not seek a multiplayer component: the game is strictly a single player affair. And a refreshing 
 one at that, with only the few iffy setbacks exposed above.
  
  In conclusion, Psychonauts delivers what it's designed for, and more. It's an interactive cartoon 
 combining tons of design, artistic, and gameplay genres for an offbeat disneyish enlightenment. 
 Without any MP, nor strong modding tools, its lasting value may be short, aside the few additional 
 hours of gameplay the hardcore may dig at collecting anything: all the figments, emotional baggages, 
 and harder to find goodies in order to reach the dreaded level 100. This is one rare overlooked 
 gem unveiling an exceptional artistic tapestry, poised to exhibit the line between..... the traditional 
 velvet and modern interactivity. Just pure fun. Oh, and good luck at reaching level 100! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowcuz
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 6, 2005 8:31 am PT
Review:  Psychonauts is a weird and quirky platformer. The game combines elements of puzzle, platforming, 
 and really cool-looking psychic abilities. Though the game is a platformer, it feels really original 
 and stands out from most platformers out there.
  
  Story: Your character Raz, or Razputin is attending summer camp for psychics. Soon he notices that 
 the other kids brains are being sucked out and its up to Raz to find out whats going on.
  
  Graphics: The game has really weird and crazy looking characters. Varying from every shape and 
 size. Kind of reminds me of Nightmare before Christmas. The environments look really cool and sometimes 
 bizarre. The game looks very good and runs really smooth with no slowdown. It just looks simply 
 great.
  
  Gameplay: Like other platformers you have your typical running and jumping actions, but unlike 
 other platformers you have cool psychic abilities. Your basic attacks are his 3 hit punches and 
 a ground slam. As you progress through the game, you start to gain new abilities. New abilities 
 like telekinesis where you get to grab objects or pyrokinesis where you just simply burn anything.
 
  
  Music/Sound: The voice-acting is really good. Raz's voice is perfect and so are the other characters 
 in the game. The music is pretty upbeat and suits the environment.
  
  Value: The game is at least 10 hours long. It isnt a lengthy game but its worth checking it out. 
 If you are a perfectionist then there are tons of hidden items and other stuff to upgrade Raz. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spider_minion
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 17, 2005 3:24 pm PT
Review:  Psychonauts is a superb and highly original platformer / adventure game developed by Tim Schafer 
 and his talented team at Double Fine Productions. It's quite a big game too, taking years to develop 
 and weighing in at 5 cds. In it, you play as a young psychic named Razputin who flees home to Whispering 
 Rock summer camp. Whispering Rock is a special camp where psychically-endowed kids are trained 
 and the ones that show potential go on to become Psychonauts, which are kinda like psychic secret 
 agents. Despite his attempts to remain hidden among the paying campers, however, Raz is quickly 
 discovered and has but a single day at camp before is father comes to pick him up. During that 
 time, you'll meet the other eccentric campers and do a ton of platforming while uncovering a mysterious 
 threat facing the camp. You'll also have a very good time doing all of this.
  
  The gameplay in Psychonauts is solid and highly refined platforming. Raz can double jump, climb, 
 swing, walk tightropes, and even grind down rails -- quite impressive, even for a kid who grew up 
 in the a circus. Complementing the acrobatics is a healthy portion of combat, boss fights, and 
 even puzzles (though rest assured that none are too hard) . But what differentiates Psychonauts 
 from other similar game are (surprise!) the psychic powers. Though Raz doesn't start out with any, 
 over the course of the game he'll earn 8 powers in the form of merit badges. The powers are all 
 fun to use, and using them in unusual ways really keeps the already-fun gameplay fresh.
  
  You'll explore a wide variety of levels during the course of the game. The Whispering Rock campgrounds 
 itself is very well detailed, and it's quite fun to explore for any hidden items and to see what 
 the other campers are up to. But the real meat of the gameplay occurs in other people's minds. 
 At first, you enter the minds of the camp staff to earn your first few merit badges, but later 
 you'll meet a wide variety of crazies who need their inner demons to be exorcised. Each of these 
 10 stages is really unique and imaginative. I don't want to give any of the surprises away, but 
 you'll be quite amazed at home cool, weird, and/or clever each new stage is. And wherever you are 
 in the game, there are always lots of things to be collecting; most of these raise your psychic 
 rank (which grants you more powers) though some unlock the game's concept art or memories from 
 the characters' past.
  
  Though the gameplay is good, what really makes Psychonauts so much fun to play is its story elements. 
 The main plot is quite amusing and original (a word you'll hear a lot in this review, along with 
 "psychic") , but the many characters you'll meet really steal the show. The other campers are always 
 doing something at Whispering Rock, and searching around to see their latest antics or listening 
 in on their conversations is its own reward. But the 19 campers and 4 faculty members are only 
 a tiny portion of the many, many characters you'll meet in Psychonauts. And every one of them is 
 well-characterized and fully voiced. The dialog is very funny and some of the best I've ever heard 
 in a video game (or anywhere, for that matter) . Psychonauts' quirky sense of humor goes a long 
 way in making the whole experience so enjoyable.
  
  There are a few minor (and easily forgivable) problems with the game, though. The first is that 
 its a bit on the easy side -- I rarely ran out of lives or got stuck for long at any of the puzzles. 
 The control scheme is decent, but the keyboard and mouse don't really lend themselves to the precise 
 control needed for a platformer. But since Psychonauts isn't hard to begin with, the controls are 
 never a real problem. Also, there are a bit less of those great character interactions about halfway 
 though the game, which is a real pity. Lastly, Psychonauts isn't very long. Taking my time, it 
 took me 20 hours to beat the game. I bet I could do it in about half that if I just wanted to plow 
 through the game. There isn't much in the way of replay value (really just hunting down the various 
 items scattered throughout the game) except to experience such a fine game again. Psychonauts clearly 
 prioritizes quality over quantity.
  
  Psychonauts scores big points in the graphics department. I'm no expert on graphics, but to me 
 the game looks really sharp overall. The water effects are amazing and there are some good fog 
 effects too. Everyone's eyes look moist and reflective, which I thought made the characters look 
 a lot more organic. Even the loading screens look nice. Stylistically, Psychonauts is also a winner. 
 The whole game has this interesting twisted cartoonish aesthetic to it, giving Psychonauts a look 
 all its own. It is quite unlike other games out on the market that are striving for greater and 
 greater realism.
  
  As impressive as the graphics are though, Psychonauts audio is even better. The game has a great 
 score with the pieces being as diverse as the stages themselves. The music ranges from lazy guitar 
 tune you'll hear on the main grounds, to the obvious Godzilla-theme knockoff in Lungfishopolis, 
 to the orchestral and energetic main theme you'll listen to at the end credits. The voice acting 
 is simply flawless. Each character is fully voiced too -- there are no silent text windows like in 
 many RPGs. Heck, the game's subtitles are even disabled by default. This is quite a feat, especially 
 given the game's massive cast. And given the excellent dialog (as I mentioned before) , you'll want 
 to hear everything a character has to say, even if that means hitting, lifting, and burning everyone 
 you come across. It's even fun to talk to the animals!
  
  Psychonauts glows brilliantly with the Light of Excellence. It is one of the best and most original 
 games to come along in years. The gameplay, story, graphics, and audio really come together to 
 create a wonderful experience. A lot of work has gone into making Psychonauts and it shows. Though 
 there are a few minor flaws, they are easily ignored given the game's outstanding quality and mere 
 $30 price tag (for the PC version, at least) . Regardless if you are young or old or if you're a 
 casual or hardcore gamer, if you like a originality, creativity, and a good storyline in your games, 
 leave home right now and pick up Psychonauts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: geldonyetich
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 15, 2005 11:10 pm PT
Review:  The thing that makes Psychonauts stand head and shoulders above most Platformers is the experience 
 it radiates.
  
  I believe that the plot of Psychonauts is best discovered on your own. The continual delight of 
 being bombarded by one absurd twist of fate to another is one of the things that make adventure 
 games a true experience. That said, it's unfortunate that nearly every other review and the game 
 manual itself seems to want to spoil many of the surprises for you. Because of my beliefs, I will 
 try to avoid spoiling you throughout this review.
  
  In Psychonauts, you play a kid named Razputin (Raz for sort) . It becomes evident in the first five 
 minutes of the game that he has snuck away from his home to Whispering Rock Summer Camp, a secret 
 training camp for fledging psychic-enabled kids like himself. Raz is quickly discovered and, after 
 a rousing exchange with the camp councilors, it is decided that he is allowed to stay until his 
 father can pick him up. Raz is determined to become nothing less than a full-fledged psychic operative, 
 a Psychonaut, before his father gets there. Raz came looking for adventure, but what he finds may 
 cause him to lose his mind.
  
  Against this promisingly unusual backdrop grows the potential for a weird adventure every bit as 
 epic as a Tim Schafer adventure game. Whispering Rock itself has a fairly well established history 
 that you will pick up as you go, but Raz spends even more time somewhere else. Part of a Psycho 
 Cadet's training involves diving into minds to participate in mental training grounds. Each mental 
 realm that Raz encounters is entirely different. Although the basic platformer physics are in place, 
 it seems as though every mental realm runs on a different set of rules. This is great because it's 
 almost as though you're playing an entirely different game each time you dive into another head. 
 The story telling method is regularly enhanced with fairly seamless videos that really help to 
 push things along.
  
  The artistic style of the backdrop and the various characters in Psychonauts, such as the camp 
 councilors and cadets, are rendered in strange manner similar to what you may have witnessed in 
 Day of the Tentacle or the Nightmare Before Christmas. The voice work is quite good, at times cartoony, 
 but this matches how the characters look. For reasons that will be revealed in the game, it seems 
 that the Whispering Rock location is somewhat conductive to insanity. Thus, many conversations 
 Raz will participate in or overhear are weird, a lot of fun, and add a lot to the environment. 
 Each character's appearance and behavior radiates personality, and they are actually somewhat endearing, 
 enough so that I was sorry when the game came to an end.
  
  There's only two real bugs in Psychonauts, but they're doozies. I've noticed that the audio tends 
 to cut out, especially during cutscenes, which at best means I'll want to repeat the cutscene and 
 at worse means the game crashes. The really annoying bit is that sometimes the frame rate drops 
 down to zero when I looked in certain directions in certain places on certain maps. This locked 
 up the whole computer, which is annoying but I managed to overcome the problem by saving frequently. 
 I really hope they release a patch for it so I can replay the game without the disruption of having 
 to reboot from time to time.
  
  When all it said and done, the biggest problem with Psychonauts is this: it ends. The replay value 
 isn't all that great, and is relegated to collecting things you may have missed the first time 
 around. While there is quite a lot to unlock, and I certainly did not manage to get them all at 
 first, I would be surprised if you could get more than 20 hours of game play out of Psychonauts. 
 Yet, what it lacks in duration, it makes up for in quality. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NeedleSurfer
Rating: 7.6
Date: May 12, 2005 7:38 pm PT
Review:  This game is very special, in its conception, story, premises and graphics. You get to play Raz 
 a psychic kids that sneak into a special summer camp for the paranormaly gifted. The firsts levels 
 of the game are extremely polished and well conceived, the amount of detail, storytelling and originality 
 is obvious and welcomed. However the more you advance in the game the more it becomes clear that 
 the later levels got litteraly rushed. I haven't finished the game because of this. The last level 
 I did was about a meat circus resulting from the merging of Raz mind and his coach's mind. The 
 amount of bug, inconsistencies and downright bad design of camera control is astounding. Now and 
 then troughout the level the camera moves in such a position that all you see is a screen filled 
 with brown because the camera moved behind a pole or something else, usually at the worst of all 
 time, like when you position yourself for a jump. Also, troughout the game the camera isn't consistent, 
 sometimes you control it, sometimes you don't, and when you don't it becomes extremely frustrating 
 and annoying to have to deal with the views the camera gives you, especially when the camera changes 
 position, when it does your caracter controls switches, left becomes right and so on usually making 
 you miss a jump or lose sense of where you actually are relative to the monster you're fighting. 
 In the last level I did, the meat circus, those camera switch are so constant they made me uninstall 
 the game, the camera actually switch mid-jump, so that Raz, in the middle of a jump turns around 
 a fall to the bottom of the level or onto some rail. It is also barely possible to predict anything 
 control-wise, sometime double jumping will cover a certain distance sometimes it won't so you have 
 to guess until you get it right (the first levels of the game don't have this problem, further 
 supporting my claim the game got rushed and botched toward the end) . The problem with such a game 
 design is that the actual levels are very unchallenging, sometimes they are but those times a few, 
 most of the time the challenge comes from the controls or camera movements, like if the designer 
 wouldn't have any good challenge idea so they repetively scramble the controls and camera in hope 
 you will die and have the illusion the game actually offers you a challenge. So in brief, unpredictable 
 controls and a camera that will drive you nut.
  
  Story-wise the game starts well, the story look deep and bits and pieces of it are delivered trough 
 scripting and cutscene brilliantly inserted into the actual levels. The more the game goes the 
 more childish, over-simplified, predictable and downright annoying the story becomes. During the 
 meat circus level, the child version of your coach contributed greatly to the uninstalling of the 
 game, I had never heard such an annoyingly-over-cute-made for 13 year old girls quotes. The guys 
 runs after his bunny yelling BBuuuuunnEEEEE EEEEE, bunny bunny bunny, come here mister bunny, I 
 wanted to shot him dead, the voice is so disturbingly overchildish, combined with the ugliness 
 of the level, the ridiculous camera shift and controls unpredictability, it gave the result you 
 already know, I uninstalled the game. Actually for reference, the moment you get into the asylum 
 the level quality starts to drop, the theatre play level could have been really original but it 
 was too easy, girlish and again, botched. 
  
  It is obvious that the game got rushed before releasing it and thats a very sad thing because for 
 a long period the game is astounding, beautifull and I repeat, original, you will dig it, but I 
 also believe that the lasts levels ruins it all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bulldawg8879
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 3, 2005 12:10 am PT
Review:  I havent had a chance to really play any platformer games that have come out for the consoles since 
 i only have a pc.. so when i played the demo for psychonauts it seemed different to me.. after 
 i played it i knew i had to get the game especially since i knew it was being made by Tim Schaffer 
 who made all the really good adventure games awhile ago.
  
  The games graphics are perfect for the type of game it is.. The enviroment of the camp is actually 
 really pretty with lots of small details like bugs and animals running around. Inside the minds 
 the enviroments look great and most of them fit the personality of whoevers mind u are entering. 
 The art design on dis game kicks booty! 
  
  The game is a ton of fun to play either just exploring the camp looking for the Psi cards and scavenger 
 items or going through any of the unique levels.. Some of them are actually quite difficult but 
 not so much as to make u give up on them.. I only wish this game could be a bit longer but it does 
 seem a pretty good length for a game like this. One bad thing is u cant keep exploreing after u 
 finish the game u have to start a whole new game which didnt bother me too much though.
  
  The sound on this game seems excellente.. The voices all fit the characters really well.. some are 
 kindof annoying to but it fits.. The jumping sounds and punches are what u would expect and the 
 music is done really well fitting the mood and setting of the area u are in..
  
  This game is definately worth getting for 29.99 on the computer!.. Ive already finished it once 
 and going through it again now so it does have replayabilty if u dont get everything first time 
 around.. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
