-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Psychotoxic
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/psychotoxic/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Quickload &amp; Quicksave are actually quick.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Way too long.
 Buggy.
 Movement too loose.
 Some truly terrible levels.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 22, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 4.1
Critic Score: 4.0, 18 Review (s)
User Score: 4.8, 220 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Whiptail Interactive
Developer: NuClearVision
Genre: Fantasy First-Person...
Date:     Mar 14, 2005
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Psychotoxic is a long-in-development shooter from Germany that's ruined by sloppy design, bugs, 
 and a desperate need for some editing. 

  It's hard to dislike a game that isn't afraid to include a mission goal that calls for you to "Climb 
 into the deepest depths of your soul." However, this one then doesn't make that mission goal some 
 kind of purgative final encounter or, at the very least, the final task of that particular level. 
 So it's hard to dislike but not impossible to dislike Psychotoxic, a long-in-development shooter 
 from Germany that -- despite occasional bursts of endearing "deepest depths of your soul" wackiness -- is 
 ruined by sloppy design, bugs, and a desperate need for some editing.  

          The cartoon bunny world.     

  It's 2022, and the Apocalypse is either about to start 
 or has started. The state of Armageddon isn't entirely clear. Regardless, you play Angela Prophet, 
 who, according to one of the game's many misspelled dialogue captions, is the "Choosen One." Because 
 you're half angel, you've been "choosen" to stop both the fourth horseman of the Apocalypse and 
 the self-proclaimed reincarnation of Aleister Crowley, a guy called Aaron who wears a giant cowboy 
 hat and runs a death cult committed to worldwide chaos.  

  In keeping with the biblical theme, Psychotoxic's bugs -- much like the demons living inside the 
 possessed man in Mark 5-- are legion. Expect these bugs to corrupt save games on a regular basis. 
 And when the game's good and tuckered out from that, expect it to faint directly to the desktop. 
 Sometimes your weapons will refuse to reload until you cycle through them a couple of times. Other 
 times, Psychotoxic will grind to a two or three frame-per-second halting stutter for the remainder 
 of a level. In one mission, you're wearing a big diving helmet, except when it sporadically disappears. 
 When it's in place, however, your gun is alarmingly inside the helmet with you. So it's kind of 
 a relief when the helmet goes missing. At one point, you're supposed to locate a contact in Central 
 Park. There's a good chance you'll scour the park for hours before accidentally stumbling across 
 the empty bench that triggers the meeting... and the end of the level. Is the missing character 
 model a bug or a design problem? In a game rife with both, that's a real toughie.  

  On the positive side, when they're working, the quicksave and quickload are truly pretty quick. 
 And for once, a marketing blurb actually understates some of a game's features. When the back of 
 the box claims there are 29 levels, it's being modest. We counted 30. But who's counting? Well, 
 us... and anyone else forced to trudge through the seemingly endless parade of endless levels. In 
 a time when 10-hour, 11- or 12-level shooters have become the standard, Psychotoxic features 30 
 long missions and maybe 20 hours of gameplay (more depending on how unlucky you get with the game's 
 inherent instability) .  

  Psychotoxic proves that longer is not necessarily better. The design philosophy seems to have been: 
 If climbing two sets of stairs with an enemy on each landing is fun, 10 sets of stairs must be 
 a hundred times better! Most levels consist of cramped, twisty corridors inhabited by enemies standing 
 around waiting for you to shoot them. Enemy artificial intelligence is primitive, and your movement 
 is way too loose, the combination of which makes the combat simultaneously boring and aggravating. 

  Environments are spread between Washington, DC, New York City, and about 10 dream levels that take 
 place inside people's heads. Some of these dream levels have an interesting look. One takes place 
 in a garish, stylized cartoon world filled with exploding bunnies, and another is set in a gothic 
 village that uses a cinematic monochrome color scheme, complete with squiggly film scratches. They 
 all, however, still suffer from the game's many problems.  

  In the several places where the designers decided to break format from the twisty corridor crawl, 
 the game tends to get worse. For instance, the first dream level includes lots of platform-jumping 
 and sliding-log avoidance (all while being shot at) that would be frustrating in a first-person 
 shooter with solid controls, much less one with Psychotoxic's "Armageddon on Ice" style of movement. 
 Another mission abruptly introduces an unforgiving stealth requirement that ends up being mostly 
 an annoying matter of luck, since there's no stealth mechanic accompanying it other than a too-brief 
 invisibility power-up.  

          Fighting a cow during WWII. The game isn't as good as this makes it sound.      

  The 
 environments do occasionally open up, such as in the aforementioned Central Park level, but the 
 frame rate often takes a massive hit because of it. The visuals are powered by a custom rendering 
 engine, and the results are erratic. The frame rate, even on a machine that exceeds the recommended 
 specs, fluctuates wildly... and unpredictably, too, since it sometimes takes a mysterious nosedive 
 even in cramped areas. The character models are basic, and their animation is awful. Characters 
 frequently move by gliding, and they animate in fitful pops and starts, like spooks in Asian ghost 
 movies.  

  The back of the box claims there are 90 "unique and different" enemies. If that's true, the developer 
 is counting some very subtle variations on a spider, a cop, and a zombie, which comprise about 
 98 percent of the largely indistinguishable enemies you'll face. One thing's for sure: There aren't 
 90 voice samples for the monsters. Catchphrases are repeated (including the same one back-to-back-to-back 
 without a break) to the point that they go beyond annoying and wrap around to become sort of funny. 
 That is, until hour 15 sets in, and there are still 10 levels to go... and your save game just got 
 corrupted. Then it reverts to being aggravating, just like the rest of Psychotoxic. Oh, and there's 
 no multiplayer mode, just in case you thought there would be a surprise ending where that part 
 turned out to be good.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (3 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: thenewau25
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 21, 2008 8:55 am PT
Review:  1 have you played the game because its totaly not like that
  
  2 ALL the levels are awesome, thatswhat the game is known for
  
  3 no major bugs the only thng 
 i spotted is that some times SOME SPECIFIC levels crash durng loadsceens, well nothing stops you 
 from running the game again and and laoding that level again (its 100% sure it wont crash) or you 
 can apply the patch!
  
  4 IT GOT TO BE LONG so since then in 2005 we get short games! but this is long, appreciate it !
 
  
  5 quicksave and load is quick unlike brother in arms that takes ages and it still does even in 
 new pcs but phychotoxic loads right away!
  
  6 graphs, i wonder in what crappy pc and what vga used as you can see in the screenshots the graphs 
 are FAR better than brother in arms that came at the same date so tell me look at the screenshots 
 and tell me which one looks better? hell this game got good physiques if you blow something up 
 it will break , and boxes and corpses will fly on the air, juddgin by this game good perfomance 
 and ageia physx high requirements fo the same physiques while i think those were amazing , eg brother 
 in arms came out at th same time but it didnt even have physiques!, bulletholes are cool too!
 
  
  7 sound ok voice acting kinda suck but so does in brother in arms i mean these guys say one two 
 words like they reading it from a book!!! they dont even act they sound mega fake, at some points... jesus 
 AOUCH MY EARS, lol i mean lol its funny!
  
  but the ambient sounds are cool and scary, while at the same time you dont even hear the birds 
 flying or the sea wave in crysis!!!!!! so i guess that does it, ALSO the musisc is pretty cool 
 both the music at the menus and the levels, damn new games dont even have music!
  
  8 story you got angela prophet which is one of the coolest female characters i ever seen and you 
 are at the beggining of armagedon in new york, turns out that you are muhc more important than 
 you think, (i wont spoil the story) and you gotta stop the leader of a cult, needless to say that 
 its in new york and a cult in aramgedon is really cool, so it turns into a conspiracy and police 
 fbi and swat chase you, hmm kinda reminds matrix,
  
  9 level design, well the inside areas are all inspired from hal life th best fps ever and the snowy 
 new york aleys areas (imagine all that action back there) are really cool or all that chase inside 
 the buidings and rooftops or a level that reminds matrix or the warehouse in the docks from which 
 you go to a frgate full of soldiers, after you descand with a crane, or the next level that you 
 are on a chopper with a machinegun!!! or the central park level! OR the dream levels like hell 
 that beats the crap out of doom 3 hell leve or the inside the dream level or pain, the torture 
 level that a scream like serial killer chases you inside a old hotel... in your dreams!!!!! or the 
 atlantis level that after it you get inside the naftilus submarine!!!! so tell me what is better 
 this or the doom 3 and fear lame similar corridos or the brother in arms green landscape thats 
 filled with bushes to create cover? or the crysis almost but not quite jungle areas?
  WE TALKING ABOUT THE BEST LEVELS EVER!
  
  10 the gameplay, you run around in order ot avoid 
 getting hit two pistol hits are enouth to kill an enemy and 3 for armored, ofcourse there elite 
 oponets, the game has 25 levels maybe more while crysis eg has 11 ! the gamepaly dosnt have any 
 puzzles just move and shoot like doom 3
  OLDSCHOOL GAMEPLAY NO REALISM there also pickups like invisible anda armor or slo mo, yes it aint 
 power so its kinda lame and yes the ending is lame and yes the sneak in airforce one is lame, but 
 hey you giht in airforce, about bugs i cant recal anything maybe cuz it doesn have anything annoying 
 like problems with checkpoints in turok!
  
  One of the Best fps i eve played!
  
  IF you like oldschool fps that is ! 
  
  very simmialr to half life 1 not 2 nad quake 2! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: n00mad
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 26, 2007 2:51 pm PT
Review:  --I play it with pleasure why ? Its not like other pop shooters its more much more phantazy unexpectable, 
 mind flow everywhere, whos creator of this game some psychopatman ??? ,- impressive then. i love 
 its not like half life not q3 its totaly diferent and q3 doom3 lovers will play it with some enjoy 
 :) i noticed that. Its more fun then u play with couple friends then u have a lot of lough (from 
 games ideas) . Its scary (blah xD ) , its fun, and needs good orientation in big places. --no Not 
 first level describe this game; u need to go deeper in this game - thats all pleasure, weird levels, 
 free choices, good guns, and almost no phantazy restriction. Maybe sometimes Ai and looks like 
 stupid but it is active only to kill u xD.
  --Sooory for my bad language (try learn my (Lithuanian) first ok lol its harder then japanese)
 
  --4.1points is way to less, well if i say minimum it must be 7+
  --this game have some fraking guns so try it :) uv played postal ? well :B go with psychotoxic
 
  --And guns control its not so easy, i remembering halflife cs mixed with q2
  --this game tells JUST GO SHOOT GO SHOT if u can keep like thath withouth dying then u can have 
 pleasure- remember i played at normal and its beatable, but with Realistic damage.. huh just campers 
 and good aimers-predicteers can go xDD add
  -- some people claims about crashes (lol sucky pc's they have ?) - crashes are are not so often 
 as all saying !! for me its wery rarely and thath not so big deal at all -- why i rated sound so 
 high - im rated not quality but musik/sound/ambient ideas that fits good to levels 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ceyxxx
Rating: 7
Date: May 20, 2007 9:48 pm PT
Review:  Although the bugs in the game occasionally, crashes) can be a bit annoying, I found this game to 
 be a lot more fun than the reviews suggested. There are plenty of levels and I found the dream 
 sequences kind of fun. The voice acting is a bit lame, but I've definitely heard worse.
  
  The sound mix levels were off, so the subtitles com in handy. This game was obviously rushed out 
 before being ready, which is not usually the fault of the game designers who obviously put in a 
 fair amount of work into this game.
  
  The only thing I found a bit disturbing was how many innocent FBI agents, police, etc. I had to 
 kill on the premise that everyone was in on the conspiracy. I suppose it's a paranoiac's fantasy.
 
  
  For the super low price I paid, I got a good run of fun from this game. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
