-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Puzzle Quest: Galactrix
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/puzzle/galactrix/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 At their best, battles can feel like games of chess.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Far too many battles are decided by luck.
 No multiplayer matchmaking or leaderboards.
 Protagonist is almost impossible to care about.
 Story takes too long to get even remotely interesting.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Feb 26, 2009
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.5
Critic Score: 7.2, 15 Review (s)
User Score: 6.4, 129 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: D3
Developer: Infinite Int.
Genre: Matching Puzzle
Date:     Feb 24, 2009
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The sequel to Puzzle Quest: Challenge of the Warlords takes most of what was great about its predecessor 
 and ruins it. 

  Like its predecessor, Puzzle Quest: Galactrix is a role-playing game of sorts in which turn-based 
 battles play out on something resembling a Bejeweled board. Galactrix takes Puzzle Quest out of 
 its original fantasy setting into the realm of sci-fi and, at first glance, it appears to retain 
 and improve on much of what made the first game great. The new hexagonal playing field with variable 
 gravity initially feel like an exciting innovation, but ultimately they're the game's undoing because 
 blind luck now plays much too big a part in determining the outcome of almost every encounter. 

  Almost all of your time in Puzzle Quest: Galactrix is spent moving hexagonal pieces around in an 
 attempt to create same-color lines of three or more. In the original Puzzle Quest, in which the 
 pieces were square, this was quite a challenge at times, and it wasn't uncommon for the board to 
 be reset when it became impossible for any move to be made. In Galactrix this is never an issue, 
 because now that you can move pieces in six directions you're generally spoiled for choice when 
 looking to create a line. Thankfully, there's still some skill involved in deciding which lines 
 to play, not least because different-colored gems serve different purposes; for example, blue gems 
 replenish your ship's shields, red gems are used to power weapons, and white gems earn you experience 
 points. Special equipment items -- the equivalent of the original Puzzle Quest's character spells -- also 
 consume a combination of the red, yellow, and green gems that you've collected anytime you use 
 them to hamstring your opponent or to give yourself a temporary advantage, and whereas creating 
 lines of skulls dealt damage to your enemy in the first game, you now need to create lines of bombs 
 for the same result.  

           Closely contested battles can be great, but one lucky combo can determine the victor in 
 an instant.      

  The most intriguing addition is the way that gravity, or the lack of it because you're in space, 
 is handled. In the first game, new pieces always dropped in from the top of the board to replace 
 those used in lines, but in Galactrix they can come in from any of the playing area's six sides. 
 The direction of gravity is determined by the direction of your last move, so even after deciding 
 which two pieces you want to trade places, you have to think about which one you want to reposition 
 first. There's so much strategizing going on that the best battles in Puzzle Quest: Galactrix can 
 last for close to ten minutes, but given that every move causes a number of random pieces to appear 
 on the board, far too many of those battles are decided by lengthy combos or strings of bombs that 
 there's no way to plan for. Imagine playing a game of chess against a similarly skilled opponent 
 with the knowledge that, at any time, a third party could simply sweep all of the pieces off the 
 board and declare one of you the winner, and you have some idea of how the battles play out here. 
 It's annoying if you lose, and it's unrewarding when you win.  

  When you're not doing battle against space pirates or any of the other factions that inhabit the 
 Galactrix universe, you're using the same hexagonal playing field to unlock leapgates between solar 
 systems, as well as crafting items, mining asteroids, and even haggling with shopkeepers. In short, 
 you spend almost all of your time doing the same thing. Every activity has its own set of rules -- for 
 example, to unlock a leapgate you have to match different-colored gems in a specific order and 
 against a time limit --but they all feel very similar, and most suffer from the same dependence 
 on luck that the battles do.  

  The lack of gameplay variety would be easier to stomach if there was a compelling story to justify 
 the time that you spend navigating the huge galactic map and doing battle with most of the races 
 that you encounter, but you won't find one here. This tale of a corporation's cloning experiment 
 going wrong and potentially spelling the end of humankind takes hours to get going, and it's told 
 exclusively in cutscenes that lack animation. That's consistent with what the original Puzzle Quest 
 had to offer, but that game's characters were much more interesting and, crucially, Puzzle Quest's 
 protagonist wasn't a jerk. Even the fact that you're trying to save all of humankind from extinction 
 doesn't make your Galactrix persona a sympathetic one. When he (or she) isn't battling space pirates, 
 he's undertaking missions on behalf of his self-serving crewmates, missions that include stealing 
 sacred foodstuffs and even unborn young from species who don't appear to deserve such treatment. 
 Even that might be acceptable if it was established at any point that you're playing as a no-nonsense 
 mercenary or some similarly uncompromising space stereotype, but the protagonist is completely 
 devoid of both personality and morals. Essentially, he's a character without character.  

           Navigating this map is as exciting as it looks.      

  Outside of the story mode, 
 your options are limited to multiplayer battles played either across a LAN or online against someone 
 you've exchanged IP addresses with previously. There's no matchmaking, there's no way to communicate 
 with one another in-game, and there's no option to set up a winning condition that would span multiple 
 games so that, at the end of a game, you don't have to communicate with your opponents outside 
 of the game to ask them if they want to play again. It's unfortunate that the multiplayer isn't 
 more fleshed out because, despite luck always being a big factor in battles, the inclusion of matchmaking 
 and leaderboards could've made online play much more compelling.  

  What Puzzle Quest: Galactrix lacks in good gameplay it makes little attempt to compensate for with 
 its presentation. Outside of the crisp and colorful hexagonal playing field, visuals are limited 
 to dull galaxy maps populated with 3D ships and planets, stills of characters engaged in uninteresting 
 text-based conversations, and one (just one) image of a bad guy that the camera pans across and 
 zooms in and out of during voiced narration sequences. The instrumental soundtrack, though inoffensive 
 and occasionally quite good, also lacks consistency. One or two of the tracks wouldn't be out of 
 place in an epic space opera, but others sound like something that Buck Rogers would dance to. 

  Puzzle Quest: Galactrix should have been every bit as special as its predecessor, but whereas that 
 game's randomness was only a mild irritation when it worked against you, here it ruins the game 
 regardless of whether or not you're losing. It's true that not  every  battle is decided on luck, 
 but enough of them are that frustration will set in before you're even close to investing the tens 
 of hours that it takes to get through the story.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (11 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: TheCyberKnight
Rating: 1
Date: Mar 24, 2009 3:06 pm PT
Review:  It's not often that I review a game. In fact, I almost never do because most of the stuff I could 
 say in a review is said by a dozen other people.
  
  This one, however, deserves it's own attention.
  
  This is easily the most ridiculous POS I've 
 played in a very long time. I understand the way the gems work, but it's sad the way they're implemented.
 
  
  More often than not (and I mean a whole lot more) , the computer opponent plays not what's on the 
 board itself, but what's on the outside of the board; the gems that we as players cannot see. It'll 
 move a couple gems together to gain, say, yellow energy; even when it doesn't need it. I find myself 
 wondering why it made such a move until the 'chips' begin to fall...
  
  All of a sudden, Nova, Super Nova, Boom, Blam... Dead...
  
  I don't mind losing from time to 
 time. That's part of what makes games like this fun; however, 10 games in a row... and immediately 
 after I started playing... Come on now...
  
  The more I play it, the more I hate it. The strategy isn't that hard, however playing against an 
 opponent that clearly has a "leg up" on what's coming... I'll play Windows Hearts, thanks very 
 much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ToddHagen
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 18, 2009 2:44 pm PT
Review:  I am sure you've read the GS review and have been turned off a bit by what was said. The sad thing 
 is it seems as if the reviewer didn't "get" the game mechanic or what the developer obviously was 
 trying to accomplish.
  
  Basically any review that uses that Galactrix is supposed to be "derivative" of Puzzle Quest really 
 is missing the boat. The core of the game is designed around jewel matching through a series of 
 4 different puzzle challenges using the hexagonal board.
  
  The challenge really comes into formulating VERY different strategies for each of the game-types 
 and understanding HOW to move the different gems to get the desired result. 
  
  I also went originally into the game trying to leverage my Puzzle quest skills, and was greatly 
 disappointed as the board and the opponent seemed to get "Lucky" an awful lot. After about 4 hours+ 
 of play, I discerned that I have a lot of influence on the board movement and became sensitive 
 to how to gain the upper hand.
  
  The game definitely does not leverage the graphics of a modern PC very much, with a lot of static 
 backgrounds and 2D animations. Still it did not seem inappropriate based on the jewel matching 
 board. The music is quite good, never overbearing or wearing you out. The sound effects are also 
 very nice and seem also well thought out. Voice acting is VERY sparse, and the base story is on 
 the weird side, but still enjoyable.
  
  I feel that with appropriate expectations (and an open mind related to game structure) you will 
 really enjoy this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ulself
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 17, 2009 10:17 pm PT
Review:  The Puzzle Quest franchise has developed and defined a game category all its own and Galactrix 
 takes it up a notch. I believe Gamespot blew it in their review of Galactrix. This, of course, 
 is subjective. However, as a high-ranking and well-respected game review site, at the very least 
 they could have - no, should have - provided an open-ended approach to delivering their review. 
 
  
  Galactrix provides no predictable or memorizable way of "mastering" the battle sequences, which 
 I believe is the reason for complaints from those who can't figure out how to ascend the learning 
 curve. Yes, there is a significant amount "randomness" implemented into the AI and, even more so, 
 the puzzle board. As such, there is no "one size fits all" approach to winning the battles. In 
 other words, there is a perpetual learning curve.
  
  This game is played on its terms - not the players. Hmmm . . . now that's innovative! It's about 
 time a game company took a risk by introducing a gaming genre it knew wouldn't be embraced wholeheartedly, 
 but would have more of a cult following. Yes, this has been done before, but not this well. 
  
  This game is inspired and I say BRAVO! Keep up the good work. It may not be a mainstream slam-dunk 
 in the current realm of gaming, but it is a future classic! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slowram
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 2, 2009 9:52 pm PT
Review:  I reckon people are better off if they aren't familiar with Puzzle Quest as obviously (for some 
 reason) people are feeling ripped off they aren't getting Puzzle Quest 2. If you can get past that 
 then this is an enjoyable match 3 game. Heck the game is under $20, if I paied $40+ for it I'd 
 expect a lot more or if it were titled Puzzle Quest 2 I'd expect a different experience.
  As it is Galactrix is an enjoyable match 3 game because it adds all these upgrades and powerups 
 you can get to improve your experience. Better yet it allows you to choose your character build 
 as you can focus on defense/offense/or something in between. It does what very few games using 
 the simplistic match 3 concept do which is making that sort of game into an RPG.
  The game is split into many different galaxies and each galaxy has a few planets and leapgates 
 which allow you access to other galaxies, also many galaxies have mines in which you can get materials 
 to sell at ports. 
  Depending on what task you are performing you'll have a different match 3 challenge. When fighting 
 with other ships or defenses you are in a turn based mode where you can use weapons you purchase 
 by selling the minerals you mine. When mining you are in a turn based mode without an opponent 
 or weapons trying to match as many items as possible before not being able to match any more in 
 a move. When hacking a leapgate to access other galaxies you are in a time countdown match 3 game 
 trying to match the color in the queue in an attempt to empty the queue before time runs out. 
 
  In between these you can purchase and choose which weapons/defenses to have ready and sell your 
 mined goods and look for new missions which give you experience to allow extra points alotted when 
 matching colors as well as increasing the maximum number of color points you can have allocated. 
 Blue is shields, Green and Yellow power weapons recharging yourself or depleting the enemy, Red 
 powers weapons inflicting damage on the enemy, Purple gives you Psi which later in the game can 
 allow you to bypass battles, White gives you experience (Intel) , and bombs blow up hurting the 
 enemy.
  Different galaxies, ships, planets contain different factions. Depending on what missions you acquire 
 (or are forced into) you'll alienate some factions and whenever you are in their galaxy they will 
 attack you. If you don't want to be attacked everywhere all the time then be careful what missions 
 you accept and what ships you voluntarily attack. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mobly3
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 28, 2009 7:48 am PT
Review:  I think most of the disappointed people who play it are expecting to jump right in because of all 
 the time spent playing the first PQ. This one takes some getting used to.
  
  The new dynamic with the hexes, the way in which you can control the drop direction by the way 
 you slide the gem takes awhile to feel right and even longer to master. 
  
  Plus, some may feel overwhelmed by the all the choices. There's a lot you can choose to do and 
 not alot of heads up if you are going about things the right way.
  
  As well, some of the uncontrollable combos can be frustrating and makes you feel like the computer 
 is cheating; however, when you get on the good side of the combo you feel great. Though I do admit 
 that hacking the gates almost made me throw my laptop across the room.
  
  All that said, if you can accept those changes and start to learn the new strategy and accept that 
 this is not the original PQ with a space skin, it's comes pretty close to being as addicting as 
 PQ.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: longtimegamerr
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 27, 2009 10:58 am PT
Review:  Like many others here I loved Puzzle Quest. That game had one notable flaw in that later in the 
 game you had spells that could radically change the board in _one_ move. It made the strategic 
 aspect of the game sort of null and void. But it was a fun game anyway.
  
  This time the gameplay becomes too dependent on luck. There's some casual gamers who might not 
 mind games based on luck. But gamers like myself want to be able to think and plan in a strategy 
 game! Galactrix's main game is fine enough but virtually all of the mini-games are far far too 
 dependent on new gems going you way, or you simply have no chance of winning the board. Its lame. 
 You will frown. 
  
  The main board of Galactrix has the same flaw that puzzle quest had. That is, later on you will 
 have the ability to change the gems on the board in radical ways in one move. Doing that is often 
 that only "strategy" to defeat the AI, which is VERY smart about triggering massive combos. 
  
  Honestly, I want to give this game a 7 but it really deserves a 6. There are just too many 
 flaws that take the fun factor down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedKnight13
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 26, 2009 11:00 pm PT
Review:  Not just PQ in space, this game takes a lot of PQ's systems and changes them. I feel it does that 
 in a good, almost brilliant and polished, way but obviously not everybody will agree. When you 
 look on metacritic this game is getting a few 55's and a lot of 80's/90's. It seems you either 
 love it or you hate it.
  
  I think the main reason for this is that it feels a lot more hardcore than the original PQ. It's 
 got that gritty space thing going, it's got the hex gems, and it requires more thought to play. 
 Infinite Interactive are really showing their hardcore origins in wargaming here - using the hex 
 board and changing objectives in ways that make you completely rethink your strategy at every step.
 
  
  I think a lot of reviews will say the combats are too luck-based, but I have found them less so 
 than the original. Once you start seeing the patterns and ways to manipulate the board, you realize 
 you have a lot more power over the game than PQ1.
  
  So if you don't like scifi at all, or you like your games uber-uber-casual, I'd find it hard to 
 recommend this game. If you fondly remember Elite, Star Control, X-Wing, etc... then I think you're 
 going to be one of those who love this like I do.
  
  In short, I think that Puzzle Quest: Galactrix succeeds 100% in what it sets out to do, which is 
 to create a version of Puzzle Quest that appeals to a light harder-core market who think spaceships 
 are cool. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JLacko1129
Rating: 3
Date: Feb 26, 2009 9:24 pm PT
Review:  If you recall what 3DO did to Heroes of Might and Magic IV after the demi-god Heroes of Might and 
 Magic III, you will fully grasp what the makers of Puzzle Quest have done with Galactrix. How could 
 you not want to love this game after the subtle brilliance of its older brother? But disappoint 
 it does. At first I thought I was missing something, not getting it, or just too dumb to figure 
 out the game mechanics. It was after my third battle with a space pirate that I realized the gameplay 
 was built around the luck of the draw. Wow... that might be fun in spider solitaire or freecell, 
 but dang, not with one of the cleverest and deepest casual games ever created. 
  
  Fans of the original beware - Galactrix just isn't fun. This may be the nail in the coffin for 
 a gaming franchise that had been ahead of its time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lascala56
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 26, 2009 2:03 am PT
Review:  A disappointment compared to the previous game in the series. Takes the mechanics and just tweaks 
 them.
  
  The game play is easy to get into but hard to master. It now takes more thinking before each move 
 since you can move six different ways. It feels that a lot of luck is involved as well. There are 
 way to many times where you are winning but the AI does one move and you are now even or losing. 
 The "cheating" AI of the previous game has been improved but there are still situations where the 
 AI knows what's coming.
  
  There is no way to check how much experience you need to evolve to the next level. This is standard 
 in rpg. A lot of mini-games but they are all the same. A lot of upgrade options are available for 
 ships. In fact you have three ships. This makes it like you have three different characters to 
 control in the one game.
  
  Most importantly it is still very addictive. Even when the AI is kicking your butt, you will come 
 back for more.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Viper5030
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 25, 2009 6:29 am PT
Review:  This game will eat your time away as you wait for your runs of luck to show up and let you progress 
 through the game. So far, from what I can see, the original Puzzle Quest acutally involved much 
 more strategy from the different items you could collect. The items in Galactrix are only abilites, 
 which don't have a constant effect on the game play the way the items in the original had. What 
 were the developers thinking?!?!
  
  That being said, I should mention that there are a couple of neat gameplay ideas that I like in 
 it, such as purchasing multiple ships and mining planets.
  
  Oh, and it's also a very unstable game that crashes CONSTANTLY in random places on x64 platform 
 (don't know about x86) . I think it has some bad memory leaks that need fixing before it should 
 be considered ready for release.
  
  Epic fail on developers and programmers part : ( 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ammortal
Rating: 2
Date: Feb 25, 2009 3:01 am PT
Review:  (This review is a portion taken from a forum post of mine)
  
  I'm absolutely livid with the luck based nature of the hacking game. With a name like 'Puzzle Quest' 
 (and based on its predecessor) you would expect gaming scenarios where thought and careful planning 
 would generally earn you victory. Not so with the hacking 'puzzles.' You're absolutely at the mercy 
 of the quite rare clusters of like-colored gems. Very little skill, very much lottery. If I'm this 
 angry at the 'easy' puzzles, it is in the best interest of every living and material object around 
 me to quit the game immediately now.
  
  Fail. Fail. Fail.
  
  In fact, the whole design of this game is a fail. You want to know why everyone was surprised at 
 the sudden release date for this game? It's like for movies that the producing studio knows is 
 going to get critically reamed. They don't allow critics to see it ahead of release so as many 
 of the general public will see it before the bad press gets out. They wanted to sneak out this 
 pooper so that those of us excitedly watching and waiting for it on sites like Direct2Drive would 
 crap our pants and buy it before we read the negative reviews. 
  
  So far in about an hour of playing, I've only had 2 (yes, seriously, only 2) enemy encounters. 
 The rest has been terrible 'mining' puzzles where I've only won maybe 2 of 10 (I sure hope they 
 respawn) and the aforementioned shpoottastic hacking puzzles. And just terrible ship flying around 
 animations.
  
  
  Fail. Fail. Fail. I am so disappointed with this steaming load I was handed today.
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
