-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Quake Mission Pack: Scourge of Armagon
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/quakemissionpacksoa/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 19, 1997
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.6
Critic Score: 8.2, 2 Review (s)
User Score: 8.3, 122 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Activision
Developer: Hipnotic Int.
Genre: Sci-Fi First-Person...
Date:     Feb 28, 1997

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Highly recommended for anyone who just can't get enough of the original. 

 There are several Quake related mission packs and conversions available on the local software store 
 shelf (Quantum Axcess' Shrak and WizardWorks' Q! Zone to name a couple) , but Activision's Scourge 
 of Armagon is the first to maintain the quality level design of the original while adding some 
 great innovations.  

 Armagon contains three new episodes and a deathmatch level, with new monsters, weapons, and power-ups. 
 New environments include revolving cement-mixer passages and blood-red waterways, and an abundance 
 of traps, from huge whirling drill-bits and spinning saw blades to hundred-foot lava pits and tumbling 
 rocks. But we don't want to give away all of the surprises. Suffice to say, you shouldn't go taking 
 pot-shots at the crucified guy in the Black Cathedral if you know what's good for you.  

 Among the new monsters featured are the Centroid, a huge mechanical scorpion with a nasty stinger 
 and two nail guns for claws, and Gremlins, hell-baboons who descend upon you and steal your best 
 weapon, using it against you to the best of their simian abilities. If these little cannibals are 
 outnumbering you, try killing one of them and then see if they'd rather have you for lunch or their 
 freshly carved-up brother.   

 So what new weapons will you use to splatter these dungeon dwellers in Scourge of Armagon? The first 
 you'll come into contact with is the sporty proximity mine launcher, which fires motion-detecting 
 grenades that will attach themselves to the wall or the ceiling - stand back and watch them blow 
 up in the face of an unsuspecting passerby. Next is the laser cannon, which sends blasts of fused 
 energy ricocheting from walls hither and yon, searing any flesh that enters its path. The final 
 weapon you'll come across, the Mjolnir, comes straight from the workshop of a Valhalla blacksmith. 
 One epic strike at the floor, and this over-sized hammer emits lightning bolts that juice anyone 
 standing close by.  

 The individual levels are extremely challenging at first: Any time an object of importance is retrieved 
 or activated (such as a key or a switch) , you can be sure that you've just unleashed a pack of 
 intimidating monsters who are waiting just around the corner. Five words can describe a few of 
 the more difficult levels: Lots of Vores and Shamblers! If you're lucky enough to grab the Horn 
 of Conjuring (a new power-up) , you can actually recruit a monster to be your brother-in-arms, fighting 
 by your side against his erstwhile brethren. There is also an Empathy Shield available that lets 
 attackers "feel your pain" as they lay into you.  

 Many of the levels are perfect for deathmatch. Edge of Oblivion - presumably set atop some kind 
 of multi-tiered floating space-station - is a great environment for fragging over the network. 
 Be cautioned however: Accidentally tipping off the edge will send you hurtling through the atmosphere, 
 2001-style. But perhaps the most exciting and heart-accelerating deathmatches occur in the final 
 level (where you meet the half-mechanized Armagon in the single-player game) . Perfect in its design, 
 this level consists of only a single room (similar to Quake's House of Chthon) , has every weapon, 
 no armor, and practically nowhere to hide. Needless to say, the room begins to look an exploded 
 morgue after only a few minutes of play.  

 This add-on comes highly recommended for anyone who just can't get enough of the original. With 
 a cool new soundtrack and challenging levels, Scourge of Armagon is more of the same good thing. 
 The only real drawback is the price, which is a bit higher than the other add-ons available - but 
 if you're willing to shell out the cash, you will be sure to find Armagon an excellent addition. 
    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (2 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Humikimi
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 20, 2008 11:53 pm PT
Review:  In a world where expansion packs to first-person shooters are generally mediocre at best, it is 
 nice to be able to pick one up that is... get this... good. It picks up everything that was lacking 
 in the original, like intense combat (a lot of times in the original you could just do guerilla 
 attacks... here there are situations where you are vastly outnumbered and you need a lot of skill 
 and luck to survive) , more creative puzzles and an actual last boss. Yes, there is an actual last 
 boss.
  
  The game itself looks great. It is running on the Quake engine but there are some new environments 
 that help make sure everything still looks crisp and new. There is all sorts of detail in the new 
 levels that wasn't in the original so though the engine has not been upgraded, it has been used 
 in a much better way than the orginal. From the detailed environments to the nice looking new enemies, 
 you won't be dissapointed here.
  
  The game sounds great as well. It retains all the great sound effects from the original, with some 
 new ones to go with the new settings and also the new monsters sound absolutly fantastic. The best 
 part is the more action-oriented and well-done soundtrack, which fits this game wonderfully. The 
 original had a more creepy soundtrack that went with the setting and mood of the game, but this 
 one is more set on keeping you on your toes and the music delivers.
  
  The 15 new single player levels are done great. There are nice new puzzles but the main focus here 
 is action, and there is plenty to go around. There are enemies EVERYWHERE and you will be fighting 
 for your life all the time. I can play through Quake 1 on Nightmare almost flawlessly, but playing 
 this on Hard caught me off guard and I was mutilated multiple times. It is nice that the game is 
 challenging because it is an expansion, which means it assumes you've played the original and have 
 the experience. The last actual level was a personal favorite of mine from the whole entire series. 
 Running and facing a Shambler and a bunch of enemies then running back and seeing a bunch more 
 and then watching as the floor collapses and you fall into lava... absolutely priceless.
  
  The game is a bit shorter than the original, being about 3/4 the length but it's still pretty good. 
 The new weapons are pretty neat too. There is a proximity mine launcher (self-explanatory) , a Laser 
 Cannon that bounces off of walls (very nice weapon) and the most fun is Mjolnir, basically Thor's 
 Hammer. You use it and everybody gets electrocuted. There are even a couple new items too, first 
 is a shield that makes the enemy get hurt when they hurt you. The other is a really nice one, and 
 it basically summons an enemy (randomly... yes you can get a Shambler) to fight by your side. They 
 have kind of bad pathfinding, so they aren't entirely useful, but it's neat when it goes into effect 
 successfully. 
  
  There are also new enemies. There is one that is fast and small that steals your weapon and uses 
 it on you, another the has nailguns for arms and actually attempts to dodge your shots (they have 
 dodged rockets of mine) , another is a floating ball that will blow up on contact and of course 
 there is the final boss, which is... insane.
  
  There is also a new deathmatch level that is pretty good, and a lot of the single-player levels 
 are made nicely for deathmatch.
  
  With all of these additions, the single-player does a great job of expanding Quake. There is a 
 lot for you to enjoy here, and if you enjoyed Quake, there is absolutely no reason for you to pass 
 up on this wonderful game. Enjoy.
  
  Graphics: 9/10
  Sound: 10/10
  Gameplay: 9/10
  Value: 8/10
  
  OVERALL: 9.0/10.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Azghouls
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 28, 2007 7:19 pm PT
Review:  When I first played Quake I was a little disappointed in the actual single player mode. Technically 
 the game was a revolution especially the multiplayer option. I would not normally play any mission 
 packs if scored below 8.0. However I bought the original Quake plus all the mission packs on eBay 
 hence decided to install it. Booted up my PI 133 (yes it still works) , went straight to normal 
 difficulty and after blowing up the pumps (pretty much at the beginning) I was amazed at the new 
 technology, felt guilty and restarted the game at hard. This gives me the impression that when 
 John Romano left the building the new developers (Hipnotic) seem to get it right and produced this 
 masterpiece.
  
  The story left off after defeating Shub-Niggurath; you arrive back at your home base on Earth, 
 but it's not all blue skies and butterflies (as the manual states) . The base is silent however 
 you sense the presence of evil and for this reason you lock and load your trusty shotgun and face 
 the forces of a greater evil, Armagon!
  
  The game is divided into four main episodes which flow quite well. The first episode Command HQ 
 (4 levels plus a secret level) , the models come across like the prequel to Quake 2. The grunts 
 appear like stroggs and the levels has that Quake 2 feel (you gotta love the Lost Mine level) .
 
  
  Once passed the rift (actually that's what Scourage was originally called - The Rift however it 
 easily could of caused legal issues as it clashes with the RPG game Rifts... ahhh what a great RPG 
 - go the Borgs!!!) you landed in the land of Armagon; the Death Knight's back towards you, walking 
 towards the keep, the soulless clouds hovering overhead and that familiar sounds of the crackling 
 fires. What a superb start to Episode 2. Your old friends are here and that's includes the shambler 
 however three more monsters makes an emergence; the Centroid (a bio-mechanical scorpion with nail 
 guns as claws) , the blubbering, slow spiked floating mines and my favourite the Gremlin. These 
 buggers if approaches close enough will steal your best weapon and use it against you. On top of 
 that, if one sees that their comrade dies, it gruesomely slashes (eats?) the dead comrade and voila 
 raises the gremlin! They may seem easily enough to eradicate however this trick gives them the 
 edge.
  
  And what's Quake without secrets? Some secrets are simply pixel hunting (e. g. spot the glowing 
 'Q') however some do require logic. The logical ones are fantastic as it puts a twist into the 
 game play.
  
  And let's not forget the famed multiplayer option; more maps equal more mayhem! I have always seen 
 in those home-made videos of DM played and there is one particular map I can never locate in the 
 original Quake. I really loved the looks and feel of that map and now my dream is now real! I'm 
 talking about the map 'Edge of Oblivion' - a nice name for a nice map. This is THE DM map; the 
 numero-uno of DM. Try it out and you see what I mean and remember the year of release (1997) .
 
  
  There are some noticeably enhanced graphics; outside settings (the original Quake engine does not 
 fair well in regards to outside locations) and destructible walls (the pump level) . The exterior 
 level designs is another huge step in Quake's development and as a mission pack continues to be 
 innovative instead of just add two more creatures and one extra weapon (so-to-speak) . As mentioned 
 above, there are very similar resemblances between the first episode of Armagon and Quake 2. The 
 developers also added another cool soundtrack to listen to. Nice!
  
  New weapons are introduced; the proximity mines (which can be attached to walls and has a build-in 
 motion detector so don't go near them once launched) , the laser gun (which I feel is the fore-runner 
 of the hyper-blaster in Quake 2 and the lasers do bounce off walls so you have been warned) and 
 the Mjolnir (Thor's hammer? Strike the ground and ride the lightning baby) . Other items are the 
 Horn of Conjuring (damn those dogs) and the empathy shield (share my pain) .
  
  Overall, the game considering it's a mission pack I feel this is what Quake should be. It's innovative 
 (not just simply blow up monsters) , logical puzzles (to those who want that perfect secrets score) , 
 beautiful backdrops and of course that Gremlin! This is one mission pack that no-one should miss! 
 Now I'm aching for some more Quakin'! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
