-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Quake 4
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/quake4/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Sharp single-player campaign.
 Some of the best graphics around.
 Weapon upgrades make you rethink how you use your arsenal along the way.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Multiplayer sticks too close to Quake III's blueprint.
 Kind of a resource hog.
 Vehicle sequences are a little too basic.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 18, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8
Critic Score: 8.2, 77 Review (s)
User Score: 8.5, 8,499 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Activision
Developer: Raven Software
Genre: Sci-Fi First-Person...
Date:     Oct 11, 2005 &raquo;  
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The single-player is great fun, but the uninspired multiplayer leaves a lot to be desired. 

 
  While Doom was the game that would make id Software a gaming-household name in the early '90s, 
 over the years, the company shifted its focus away from the Doom games. As PC hardware and 3D acceleration 
 became better and better, id became much more focused on engine development. Those engines were 
 the underlying technology that powered the games in the Quake series, which began in 1996. Quake 
 was among the first PC first-person shooters to let you take your multiplayer matches onto the 
 Internet, and over the years, the series has become synonymous with great technology and exciting 
 multiplayer. Now, in 2005, the roles of id's games have reversed a bit. The company's most recent 
 engine is the one built for Doom 3, and Quake 4 runs on this same engine. Furthermore, Quake 4 
 wasn't even developed by id internally; it instead outsourced game development to the capable minds 
 at Raven Software, who have turned in a fantastic-looking game with a great single-player campaign. 
 The multiplayer, however, is underwhelming.  

          The single-player will put you up against some crazy-looking foes.     

  The three 
 previous Quake games have all had very little to do with one another. The first game's story almost 
 felt more like a retelling of Doom, dealing with inappropriately opened portals that spew out all 
 sorts of horrific demons. Quake II ditched that storyline in favor of an Earth-versus-alien conflict 
 that had you crash-landing on the alien homeworld in search of revenge. Quake III Arena was multiplayer 
 focused, with no true single-player storyline other than that a wide collection of warriors -- some 
 taken from the Doom and Quake games -- had been pulled out of their own timelines and into this futuristic 
 battle arena. Quake 4 doubles back and picks up where Quake II left off. That nameless space marine 
 from Quake II has apparently killed the Makron, the leader of the Strogg forces, and now it's up 
 to you to get in there and try to finish the job. But, of course, things aren't quite what they 
 seem.  

  In Quake 4, you play as a space marine named Matthew Kane, who has recently been assigned to Rhino 
 Squad. In keeping with first-person shooter storyline tradition, Kane doesn't speak, but the marines 
 around you will more than make up for the lack of chatter coming out of Kane's lips. You're the 
 new guy, and some of the squad's even betting that you won't even survive for one day. With the 
 Makron assumed dead, your squad is taking part in an operation to take advantage of the disarray 
 and mop up the rest of the enemy forces on the Strogg planet. But your drop ship gets hit and comes 
 down hard, killing a large chunk of your squadmates at the opening of the game. From there, you'll 
 pull yourself up out of the muck and get down to business.  

  Eventually, your squad will get extracted back to a capital ship for reassignment. Here, you'll 
 get to explore the ship, similar to how you could explore Voyager in Raven's Elite Force games. 
 Then you're back out on a new mission designed to disrupt the Strogg communication network. And 
 the story continues from there. While the story itself isn't particularly gripping, it's designed 
 well enough to keep you interested in what's happening. There's also a potentially interesting 
 plot twist in the game that, unfortunately, was revealed by id Software almost immediately, when 
 the company first started talking about and showing off the game. We won't repeat it here, in case 
 you've managed to stay away, because we have to imagine that the twist would have been a lot more 
 interesting if you didn't see it coming. Just know that a few interesting things happen in the 
 game, but they don't totally change the way the game is played or anything like that.  

  For the most part, Quake 4 is a standard, straightforward shooter in its single-player mode. While 
 the minute-to-minute objectives might not be the most interesting thing in the world, the game's 
 combat is generally pretty satisfying. It's almost as if Raven set out to prove that the Doom 3 
 engine could do more than just constantly try to surprise you, one enemy at a time. That's not 
 to say that Quake 4's hallways are littered with angry enemies, but Quake 4 is definitely a much 
 more hectic game than Doom 3 ever was. While you'll still deal with a lot of shadowy areas, this 
 is less about making you jump out of your seat and more about running and gunning. When matched 
 with the game's amazing graphical design, the single-player becomes an exciting thrill ride that, 
 on the default difficulty setting, should take you somewhere around 10 to 15 hours to complete. 

          Yeah, the multiplayer looks better than Quake III did, but that's about it.     

  In 
 the end, first-person shooters still come down to their armory. In Quake 4, you'll be armed with 
 a fairly standard collection of weapons that may have originated in the Quake II universe -- but 
 that doesn't mean they're all identical. You'll start the game with only a blaster, which has infinite 
 ammo and can be charged up for a more powerful shot. But this quickly gives way to the machine 
 gun, which is versatile enough that you'll probably be relying on it throughout the entire game. 
 That's mostly because the machine gun has a flashlight mounted on it. Even though the game isn't 
 trying to spook you by having enemies jump out of the shadows, seeing better is always a good thing. 
 Plus, lighting up some dark corners is a good way to find extra ammo and armor.     

  You'll eventually get a shotgun, a grenade launcher, the energy-powered hyperblaster, a rocket 
 launcher, the railgun, a nailgun, the lightning gun, and so on, up to the game's version of the 
 BFG, the dark matter gun. Right off the bat, most of these weapons aren't much handier than the 
 stock machine gun. Reloading the shotgun takes too long, the nailgun has a long, chaingun-style 
 spin-up time, and so on. Along the way, you'll run into marines who can upgrade your weapons. Your 
 shotgun will eventually be modified to be a clip-fed weapon, making reloading a snap. The nailgun 
 gains the ability to lock onto targets and shoot homing nails that make it behave almost identically 
 to the needler from Halo. The lightning gun upgrade makes it chain off and attack other enemies 
 standing near your target. The hyperblaster upgrade makes its shots bounce off of walls. And the 
 railgun gets a power upgrade that makes it much more useful. The rocket launcher gets an auto-loader 
 that loads up three rockets at a time, letting you fire them off in faster succession. While you'll 
 still rely on that machine gun in a lot of situations, most of the weapons come into their own 
 later in the game, giving you some good, tactical decisions to make as you fight.  

          The hovertank sequence is cool, but it's also really easy.     

  You'll also fight 
 alongside some other marines at various points in the game. While they aren't perfect, they do 
 seem to fight a lot better than you'd expect from squadmates that are completely out of your control. 
 They also seem to take a lot more damage than you'd expect, but that doesn't mean they're invincible. 
 If you let one of the game's key characters catch too many hot ones, they'll go down, and you'll 
 lose as well. Incidental marines that you encounter along the way, however, are free to die without 
 any penalty. Some marines are flagged as medics or engineers, who will heal you and repair your 
 armor, if asked. Fighting alongside other marines brings some variety to the game, as do the game's 
 vehicles. You'll get to pilot a hovertank and a mech, and at one point, you'll work the gun on 
 a tram to defend it from enemy attackers. The vehicles heal themselves over time, just like the 
 shield system in Halo, which make these sequences very easy. Still, rolling around in the game's 
 vehicles and blasting stuff is still fun, and the sequences are short enough to not get in the 
 way.  

  While the single-player doesn't feel like a throwback, firing up the multiplayer side of the game 
 is like going on an archaeological dig. As you dig, you'll unearth a take on Quake III Arena's 
 multiplayer for up to 16 players. While the goal was clearly to duplicate Quake III Arena's fantastic 
 deathmatch, the feel of the game isn't quite right, which, aside from the inclusion of a few maps 
 from previous Quake games, doesn't manage to pull off the nostalgic feel it was probably going 
 for. Instead, it just sort of feels like a relic, delivering the barebones standard modes of deathmatch, 
 team deathmatch, one-on-one, and two versions of capture the flag.  

  That's not to say that the multiplayer isn't exciting. It's fun, it's fast-moving, and deathmatch 
 is the star of the show, but it's also nothing you haven't seen and played to death already. While 
 all of this stuff was fantastic in 1999, it's a little stale now. The weapons from the single-player 
 side are included here, but they're streamlined to not force you to reload your weapons. The level 
 design is full of Quake III-style jump pads, and you'll have the same sort of air control that 
 you had over your airborne combatant in Quake III. Even the announcer sounds virtually identical 
 to the one from Quake III, and makes the same kind of commentary you've already heard a billion 
 times. The frantic multiplayer has its moments, but it's disappointing how little the multiplayer 
 has evolved.  

  In Doom 3, the graphics were the star of the show and basically made the game's whole theme possible. 
 Without those high-quality lighting and shadow systems, how could hell's demons hop out at you 
 from the darkness? Quake 4 has an entirely different theme to it, but it still makes fantastic 
 use of the Doom 3 engine. Exploring Stroggos is exciting on its own, just because the game is full 
 of interesting areas that look absolutely amazing. The design of the various alien areas get to 
 be more and more breathtaking as you work your way deeper and deeper into the game. The models 
 of the other marines on your adventure look great, too. Many of the enemies are updated takes on 
 foes found in Quake II, but as you'd probably expect, they look a whole lot better now. It also 
 has support for widescreen monitors, but it doesn't seem to actually support widescreen resolutions. 
 All of this graphical prowess comes at a price; you'll need a pretty stout machine to run it well. 
 Machines that just barely meet the game's minimum requirements will get a reduced version of the 
 experience that runs smoothly, but the scaled-back detail detracts from the experience.  

          Dude! Behind you!     

  Quake 4 has great sound that helps highlight the experience. 
 The weapons sound appropriately tough, which is always key for a shooter. But the game is much 
 more than the sounds of weapons and explosions. The voice work is sharp and believable, and helps 
 give a little more life to the marines around you. However, sometimes you'll hear different radio 
 chatter repeat frequently, especially if you're taking your sweet time getting to that next objective. 
 Also, sometimes you'll get radio transmissions in the middle of a fight, and the voice gets drowned 
 out. Fortunately, that speech is never too important. The game's music is understated, but fits 
 in with the atmosphere. There are even a few musical stabs in the game that play when you open 
 a door and see an enemy on the other side, almost as if it's attempting to poke fun at Doom 3's 
 constant "what's behind the next door?" scare tactics.  

  Overall, Quake 4 is kind of a weird case. The single-player is great fun, but the uninspired multiplayer 
 leaves a lot to be desired. The end result feels like two different games. The single-player has 
 a straightforward, no-nonsense approach to it that makes a great showpiece for the Doom 3 engine, 
 while the online portion feels like it fell out of a time warp. If you're looking for Quake III 
 Arena's deathmatch with better graphics and much higher system requirements, this is your game. 
 But if you're looking for some new ideas from the series that made online deathmatch a big deal 
 in the first place, you're barking up the wrong tree.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (585 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Nemo_85
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 28, 2009 9:05 pm PT
Review:  The good:
  -Incredible graphics
  -Immersive and creepy environments
  -Easy-to-use weapon design
  -A couple memorable characters
  
  The bad:
  -Obvious difficulty 
 scaling for the purposes of making the later parts of the game "more difficult". 
  -Enemy AI easy to overcome
  -Player detachment from objectives
  -Mostly linear level design
 
  
  I did not play any of the previous Quake series games, but I was impressed overall with Quake 4. 
 For a first person shooter, it delivers in pretty much every way that a FPS fan would expect: graphics, 
 gore, weapons, villains, and heroes. 
  
  The story of Quake 4 is probably better appreciated by those who have played the previous games. 
 However, even though I did not play them, I still found the story interesting and creepy. This 
 is largely because the story told in Quake 4 is often told in subtle but effective ways. In particular, 
 the game's insane graphic engine (doom 3 variant) and well designed levels help tell a story by 
 way of the saying "A picture is worth a thousand words." Quake 4 seems to be proof of this. You 
 really get a feel for the plot and your enemies by way of experiencing their world -- something for 
 which Quake 4 will become a memorable experience in my opinion. Without spoiling the game, I will 
 just say that some of the environments were just as informative as they were creepy, and that is 
 saying a lot considering I would often stare at them with suspense and fright. Furthermore, your 
 character undergoes a... unique experience that also adds to the plot and the player immersion. 
 
  
  The weapons in Quake 4 are a mix of your standard bullet and explosive weapons supplemented by 
 a variety of high tech and alien designs. The result is a large array of weapons that each have 
 strengths and weaknesses. Thing is, some players, like myself, will probably favor just a few of 
 them and rarely or never use some of the others. 
  
  There were some characters in the game that were actually developed quite well. The reason I sound 
 surprised by this is because I have not come to expect this type of development in FPS games. Although 
 the character development was not anywhere near RPG stock, it was done well enough that you actually 
 felt like your character was connected to them in subtle ways. It was sort of like a sense of camaraderie 
 and duty mixed with the eerie plot and seemingly inevitability of hopelessness. Or perhaps it was 
 the fact that everything around you was so foreign that when you did get to interact and learn 
 about other people it was like a light in the dark. 
  
  Quake 4 does suffer from obvious difficulty scaling. It is fairly normal for games like this to 
 use it to make the game get progressively difficult, but it was incredibly obvious in Quake 4. 
 Enemies that in the beginning of the game could barely hurt you with three or four hits could easily 
 kill you later in the game. I suppose it would not have been so bad if they had been a different 
 kind of enemy, but they were not. They were the same bad guys, but suddenly their weapons were 
 devastating. 
  
  Even the difficulty scaling, however, could not overcome the AI. The AI does not seem to bad when 
 you first start playing the game, but later on it does. In a sense, the damage that your enemies 
 can do gets stronger and stronger, but their AI strategies never change. As the two diverge further 
 and further the player begins to notice the AI lagging behind. This was even true with the bosses. 
 It was like fighting really powerful retards. 
  
  There was also a sense of detachment from your objectives. I think there are a number of reasons 
 I felt this way. For one, the environment and combat draws the majority of your attention. Second, 
 most objectives are achieved by fighting your way to a switch and flipping it. Finally, some of 
 the "updates" about your objectives are played as radio messages to your player, but you are often 
 in the middle of battle when they are playing, which means you either do not hear it or you ignore 
 it anyway. I cannot tell you how many times I would have to stop and hit the objective key so I 
 could figure out what it was I was doing (other than moving forward and destroying those in my 
 path) . 
  
  Overall, Quake 4 is a great FPS and certainly worth playing if you want a game that will give you 
 incredible graphics, creepy environments, and smooth, intense combat. Just understand that these 
 are its best qualities and anything else you might be looking for will probably be lost here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theplagued
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 22, 2009 3:40 pm PT
Review:  When I played Quake 4, my computer could barely run it but I still managed to have the satisfaction 
 of needling thousands of hapless Strogg into pulp. Unlike most FPS-s, there is something about 
 Quake 4 that makes it different. The graphics are creatively used and when thrown at you together, 
 they set up the mood and mystique the plot is all about. The fear in this game could have been 
 amplified but the grittiness of this game is in no way lacking. However, I did think Kane could 
 have been more unique as a Strogg. As one of his mates says, he does look like sh**. Plot spoilers 
 aside, the AI is mostly not too stupid and the cheats encourage you to... experiment.
  
  A great game in itself as it won't scare you away with too much blood but has gorgeous graphics 
 and concept art. The two words you can't resist saying when you play this game are "oh snap". 
::::::

::::::
UserName: desmasic
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 20, 2009 3:43 pm PT
Review:  Those who have played Quake 2 are most likely waiting for a sequel Quake deserves. So I am not 
 going to whine about that. Moving on..
  
  
  What you need to know about Quake-4:
  
  PROS
  - Great graphics. Doom3 engine gets tweaked out to support large open areas, giant mechs/walkers 
 (which you can control) , kickass moddable weaponry, better GUI panels, more enemies, more action 
 and great level design that just makes you wanna stare at a rusty wall for mins admiring the work.
 
  
  - Gore. There's gore and used properly.
  
  - Enemy AI is a improvement. Actually, compared to Doom3, AI gets larger environment to hide behind, 
 run and shoot from. They nade you, they shoot you and if you hide, the come and shoot you in the 
 face (most of them go all melee on your ass) .
  
  - Game surprisingly has better character models, models with non blurry textures (unlike D3) . Characters 
 also have good voice actors who aren't annoying.
  
  - In some scenes you escort, in others you fight alongside the marines and it actually seems a 
 realistic assault on Strogg. Oh and AI teammates aren't useless, they heal health/armor, and great 
 backup in some really well triggered fights.
  
  - Zombies (with and without acid) . You shoot, they break apart and they still keep moving toward 
 you. Nice.
  
  - Great boss fights. Epic actually. Still, not hard enough and somewhat easy.
  
  
  
  CONS
 
  - THIS IS NOT QUAKE.
  Hard to describe but this game just feels like a faster version of Doom3 with few Quake enemies 
 thrown in (among other changes mentioned above) . Strogg's feel incredibly weak.. in-fact, you are 
 pretty much kicking their ass and they are bending over and taking it without a proper fight (really, 
 the limitation of engine comes into play here) . 
  
  The whole game feels like something that happened to a lame soldier no one cares about or could 
 care about unless until someone made a game on him. Even then it's boring. Game is missing the 
 Quake 2 feel (not the graphics, which just feel like Doom3 textures) where every enemy had more 
 organic+bot feel to them. This game is Doom4 basically.
  
  
  
  Anyways, play and decide. It's still a good shooter. It doesn't advance the genre anyway but it 
 doesn't get boring. The action is fast and continuous with proper 'pauses'. It doesn't get boring. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pooyas
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 22, 2008 5:38 am PT
Review:  The saturation of ideas about developing first person shooters, may cause this game to be appeared 
 just like the old one. However, this game took advantage of Half Life to change the appearance 
 a little but the substance is from the old Quake series. 
  
  Quake 4 has more interactiveness with its surrounding world which makes it look more fun. You can 
 operate computers, take advantage of health stations and also you have mobile health and armor 
 units which fix you whenever you want. In return you should guard them and prevent them to be killed. 
 
  
  Like old fashioned games, each level have difficult parts and bosses which you encounter in your 
 way to advance. Each boss has special weapons and powers which disturb you much and still you should 
 jump around to avoid his attacks and make a way for counter attack. 
  
  The game divides into two phases. Phase one you are a normal soldier working for a colony to eliminate 
 the intruders. In the second phase, you are semi-converted intruder. The process been interrupted 
 by the humans. In the second phase nothing particular changed, but you have higher hit points and 
 can take advantage of some of the intruders environment. The goal is still to kill them.
  
  If you still love to play Doom, Half Life, ... I recommend the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: figsnake12
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 9, 2008 5:28 am PT
Review:  I started gaming well after the 32 bit era in which Quake was born, but I still own and enjoy many 
 32 bit era games, as well as a dozen or so retro consoles. I found Quake 4 at a local market for 
 2, which gave me a shady impression of Quake's quality. So, a year on, having finally built a 
 PC capable of doing it justice, I started playing.
  
  The first few levels were very short and not very impressive. Had quake fallen to the level of 
 a cheap alien shooter? So many other titles had failed in next-gen graphics, but it was too early 
 to judge and so I played on. Being sick of the limited weapons, I used an all weapons cheat (so 
 judge me) . I would call the resulting weaponry imaginative, had it not been pioneered by quake 
 an age ago. 
  
  Onto the storyline. Quake revolves around the events following quake 2's ending, with an invasion 
 of the Strog home world. You are part of "Rhino" squad, one of many dropped via drop ship. The 
 main focus is on destroying the "Nexus" Strog communications hub, thus rendering the Strog disorganised 
 and vulnerable. The game has a large focus on horror as you advance through Strog territory, seeing 
 the alien use of the human anatomy (human to Strog "transfers", living torso's plugged into machines 
 etc) as well as the gory gameplay. 
  
  The actual shooting is quite well maintained with ten or so weapons with great variety, such as 
 the dark matter gun, lightning gun or nail gun. I can't stand the menial tasks you are made to 
 do, simply to draw out the games play time, but almost all shooters use some sort of repetitive 
 sh*t to water down the gameplay. 
  
  So, to buy or not to buy? Well I don't regret the purchase, but then it only cost me 2 and I was 
 playing it on "ultra high" quality on a more than capable PC. A tasteful horror/action shooter 
 that avoids cheaply done gore or lots of swearing that infest other alien shooters, and manages 
 to build a deep level of respect and understanding for the characters before it rips them to pieces 
 before your eyes. Quake does it again. 
  
  8.7/10 
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkness7089
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 21, 2008 2:08 pm PT
Review:  We certainly aren't at a shortage of shooters or monster shooters with Halo's sex drive, Gears 
 of War finally getting laid, I've even played Doom 3 in addition to this. But trust me when I say 
 don't play Doom 3, that game is so terrible it doesn't merit a review!
  
  (Note that this is for the PC, I know nothing about performance comparisons) So I never even played 
 a Quake game before. But the good news is, that it wasn't that hard to figure out what was going 
 on. I'm on some alien world at war with a robotic alien race that likes to breed with human tissue 
 for some reason. That comes off as a disappointing statement, but the story is solid enough, suspenseful, 
 and unpredictable in the campaign. Unfortunately, it gets repetitive at times, and the short lived 
 and hard vehicle sequences do little to break that up. There aren't enough cut scenes or dialogue!
 
  
  Performance is an issue for this game, and I mean on the PC. For the most part it ran fine, but 
 in some areas it begins to bog and skip under the pressure. Butchering the graphics didn't help, 
 indicating a problem with the games coding itself. In some areas its terrible, but since it only 
 makes up about 5-10% of the game, you manage to fight through it.
  
  One of the shining things in Quake 4 is the squad play. Squad play really bumps up shooters so 
 you can have bigger, more realistic battles. Although you only spend about half of your time with 
 friends (at least halfway through the game) , it goes a long way from keeping it from being another 
 "run around and shoot everything". Unfortunately whenever you are alone, it goes back to being 
 just that. Sometimes you get lost, but usually this "1 way design" tells you where to go next, 
 by blocking your entrances behind you. A map of some kind would have helped, so you'll often find 
 yourself doing the "Hunter method" to find your way. That means; run around and look for enemies, 
 enemies=Me haven't gone this way yet. You may enjoy or not enjoy vehicle sequences in this game, 
 I enjoyed most of them, but some of it is just too hard to beat on the first try. The first one 
 for instance, where you are a turret on the truck that has its own driver. You'll succeed at the 
 next area only when you memorize turret locations so you can shoot them ahead of time, as they 
 pound you into the alien earth far too fast.
  
  The game isn't very realistic as far as fighting goes though (I'm serious, keep reading) , a real 
 letdown. Let me explain, your character moves lightning fast. Should I use cover? No, just speed 
 around to avoid fire, you move faster than most projectiles! I found myself able to dodge so much 
 gunfire mid air! You can also carry as many weapons as you want from level to level, eventually 
 getting about a dozen. There's no responsibility to games like this, ammo problems? I have 10 guns, 
 by the time I run out of the first 5, the rest are full from pick ups. The game does have a nice 
 selection, but being able to carry all at once means you just won't care and use whatever has ammo. 
 The buggyness doesn't help either, sometimes I'd grenade an enemies feet, only for it to not get 
 hurt at all. The collision in this game for explosives is bad enough to make you not want to use 
 them most of the time.
  
  The multiplayer also feels tacked on, and will be of little to no interest to you. It offers nothing 
 another game does better with more features and far more stability.
  
  Perhaps the only reason to play this game is if you were a Quake fan in the past and want to see 
 its story, or just like single players like I do. Avoid its failed multi player and be mindful 
 of its performance issues if you decide to play it. Its single player though, is mostly worth playing. 
 The best news is that the game is cheap and its single player will take around 10 hours of time 
 to pound.
  
  Single player: 
  (Experience) B (Acceptable)
  Presentation: 
  (Video/Audio) B (Acceptable)
  Performance: C (Needs improvement)
  Multiplayer: F (Fail) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SmallMafia
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 13, 2008 5:00 am PT
Review:  Get one thing straight: I am a fan of the Quake series. When Quake 4 was announced I like many 
 other fans thought this was the Quake to be reckoned with. But I was disappointed. Being the 4th 
 in the series and after seeing just how great the last 3 were I had high expectations for this. 
 Being Raven Software's first attempt at Quake, I will give them the credit for making a game that 
 is solid, fun and isn't too bad in the graphics department either. Naturally it was built on the 
 Doom 3 engine which makes good use of shading. Game play wise this game is fun and simple it uses 
 the tried and trusted shoot-em-up style mixed with some campaign style. There really isn't a learning 
 curve, if you've played a game like Serious Sam then you'll get the hang of this easy. Even though 
 this is a plus point its also the down point of Quake 4. When the game starts it gives you feeling 
 that you're out saving the world in a type of Worlds at War setting, and yet instead of working 
 with a squad - you're fighting by yourself and winning. The story doesn't help much with this either. 
 It's weak and the game plays it out even more poorly, so in fact the story is so insignificant 
 that this lands up being another shooter. On the box the developers try to really push the fact 
 that the story was everything only to leave it behind when developing the game. Level design is 
 also very boring and with the lack of idea's for environments this game gets boring and fast. One 
 thing that is a huge feat within itself is that at certain points missions take big twists from 
 being all out action to absolute terrifying mayhem which very few shooter can supply and a developer 
 that can do that deserves huge respect. The biggest problem by far is that the game itself doesn't 
 feel original it feels more like a mod for Doom 3 than it does an original Quake game. This is 
 just so sad. Another big problem is the fact that game cannot make up its mind as to what it wants 
 to be, its starts off as being a certain styled game and changes into a different style.
  Back in the day when it was cool to own a Quake game, Quake 4 just disappoints but it's still a 
 very fun game non the less. If you're looking for a real shoot-em-up with heritage in its genes, 
 i would suggest you get this game. You don't need to be a fan to enjoy this and in the end it is 
 to an extent worth the money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chilipepperman
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 7, 2008 5:42 pm PT
Review:  if you read any of the reviews of this game, then you probably know what this game is about. your 
 a dude whos good at stuff, and your going to kill aliens and come to an end boss, all cliche', 
 and done before. That is what this game is, but with a little touches here and there
  
  In the gametrailers review when they said that this was just an old school shooter with good graphics. 
 the gameplay is simple: shoot anything that moves with some rail sequences along the way.
  
  The graphics are actually not bad and run on pretty much every system out there today, so its 
 not that bad in that departement, but its the other things that weigh it down. the gameplay is 
 waaaay to simple, and gets extremely repitive and the story isnt that intersting to boot. at the 
 end of it i just felt like: "ok." this is just like every other shooter from like THE 90'S. i mean 
 COME ON. it is so simple, so repititive, that it just makes you wonder why they even released it. 
 its fun at parts, but is so linear that you cant really explore much, and there are parts where 
 you will die several times and not know why, because some of the enemies are real frustarating 
 and just an overall pain the ass.
  
  Overall this is an ok game, but it just doesnt seperate itself at all from other shooters. no freedom, 
 no cool F. E. A. R moments, just straight up down and dirty shooting which is ok, but for a shooter 
 veteran like me who has played a lot of great shooters, this is just so mediocre that it felt like 
 a deritive waste of time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: asafs16
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 29, 2008 5:08 am PT
Review:  so i have a big history with quake series, since the first quake for windows 95 untail quake wars 
 for XP
  
  but now lets talk about: QUAKE 4
  
  the good: 1) the game has good looking graphic you can say that for sure, the soldiars in your 
 team are looking really good and the visual effects in the game are also looking good, shooting, smoke, fire, blood 
 and more... 2) the story is a diract continue to QUAKE II where you survive an explosion, half 
 1 of the game you play as a soldiar (kane) and half 2 you play as a strog soldiar (but your still 
 in the good side) helf 1 was ok but right after part 1 of the game the strogs take you and make 
 you a robot (in some horror level) the level where they turn you in to a strog is the greatest 
 level in this game.. 3) you have also some really good weapons and more...
  
  the bad: 1) weapons designs are really ugly and its a problem in any quake game.. i just dont like 
 the weapons designs, the weapons look like a stone and not like a metal, when you play as a strog 
 the weapons are ok.. 2) the game sometimes could get a little booring
  
  so let me say this: The Game Is Worth Playing... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: korlor
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 7, 2008 1:52 pm PT
Review:  Ok this is my review of Quake 4. First of all graphics in my opinion stiil look awesome and it 
 had just the right Quake feeling right from the first screen than last games had I had. The guns 
 looks and sound amazing apart i did not like shotgun it looked too much plastic. I heard people 
 did not like the vechile parts but i think their great fun especially when you get to create havock 
 with mech robot :) the story in my opinion was very good especially (SPOILERS) when you are changed 
 to Strogg overall i think this game is superior but it is bit short and boring unless you play 
 at medium or hard difficulty if you are searching for awesome Single player game and don't care 
 multiplayer too much buy this game right now!
  
  Graphics 9
  Sound 10
  Playability 10
  Value 10
  Tilt 10
  
  this was review of Quake 4 for PC by Korlor 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gpvs
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 6, 2008 11:08 am PT
Review:  Quake 4 what can one say, to start of with one word "Excellent" the game play is awesome, fluent 
 and logically constructed.
  
  The game start of on the Strog home world called Stroggos, your main objective is to eliminated 
 the Strog Nexus, as this will inherently cause major upset among Strog forces, the current leader 
 on the home world is called the Macron "Ring any bell from previous Quake versions".
  
  The game stretch over various levels, involving solo, group and escorting missions, you also play 
 as a gunner operator, tank driver and more. During a mission you a captured, and taken to a Strog 
 Conversion facility where you are turned into a Strog-Human hybrid, you are rescued by human forces 
 on the brink of been permanently turned into a Strog.
  
  Various Weaponry can be used, and upgrades are provided in game by a Tech, the most effective and 
 most freely available ammo is that of the Machine Gun, the machine gun is also equipped with a 
 torch, to light those dark little corners.
  
  Mods and add-on maps is also available for multiplayer sceneries.
  
  The overall graphics of 
 the game is excellent and fluently programmed.
  
  Overall Quake 4 is highly addictive and one of those games you will never grow tired off.
  
 
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: thenewau25
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 27, 2008 9:06 am PT
Review:  Overally quake 4 is a pretty nice game nice ai the ability to dodge enemies attacks, nice start 
 in the beginning the game is cool nice ideas like the Hannibal spaceship level that you get briefing, 
 but thats it ! Later on its not as good as the beginning it looks awesome in the beginning the 
 blaster the assault rifle the storgg the sounds the ares, the thing is that later on the PERFECTLY 
 DESIGNED GAME turns disappointing eg the weapons you acquire like the hyperblaster are not as cool 
 as quake 2 or the the weapons you acquire in the beginning that aslo woks for levels and story 
 the size of the game is pretty short and many times you wish for stuff, eg a boss here or the sniper 
 railgun to be acquired in some wide ares fo some snipping, well you get the point it leaves you 
 unsatisfied also later on you turned into a strogg and then you got to defeat the big bad boss 
 which is nothing special and boring, and there are some vehicles that you get in and get out only 
 when you reach the point you gotta leave them overally quake 4 is a cutting edge design game but 
 the story the action the levels suck halfway through the half is prety good the rest is disappointing 
 an almost no one plays mp if it had a proper story and an longer levels with more killing it will 
 be better wish i could create levels cuz the only thing sucks in this game is the levels and story 
 so i think the designers run out of ideas! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hl20302
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 18, 2008 2:31 pm PT
Review:  I am not really a Quake fan but this has a pretty awesome single-player campaign mode. But Quake 
 4's multiplayer is pretty much the same as Quake III's multiplayer except that the graphics are 
 better, so Quake 4's multiplayer isn't original which is mostly the only major flaw in Quake 4 
 but the multiplayer is still fun to play.
  
  Storyline: ******** 8/10
  Gameplay: ******** 8/10
  Graphics: ********* 9/10
  Sound: ******** 8/10
  Lasting Appeal: 
 ********* 9/10
  
  THE GOOD:
  Fun single-player campaign, Vehicles are useful in single-player.
  
  THE BAD:
  Multiplayer 
 is basically the same as Quake III's multiplayer, Babysitting soldiers in single-player on harder 
 difficulty modes can be annoying at times.
  
  STORYLINE:
  After the defeat of the Makron in Quake II, the human forces are now invading the Strogg's Home 
 planet. You, Matthew Kane, take the battle to the Strogg's planet and become Earth's only hope 
 for victory.
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  It's been quite a improvement since Quake II. You are no longer alone like in Quake and Quake II 
 and finally team up with other human soldiers. Well, at times you are alone in the campaign but 
 you still can find some human soldiers ready to fight on your side. The cool thing in the single-player 
 campaign is that you kinda turn into a strogg (The strogg are a cyborg race) but doesn't mean you 
 fight for the strogg. But mostly you are 50% strogg and 50% human which means that you look like 
 a strogg, when your a strogg your health increases by 25% so that you have 125 health in total 
 while your not in control of the strogg since the stroggification wasn't finished so that you still 
 fight with the humans. You can also get certain weapon upgrades from your squad in the single-player 
 campaign. There is also vehicles you can use to fight the strogg in the single-player campaign. 
 The multiplayer in Quake 4 is basically the same as Quake III's multiplayer. I'm not saying Quake 
 4's multiplayer is bad, actually Quake 4's multiplayer is still fun but they could of done something 
 new like more of a tactical multiplayer style from Call of Duty and add some vehicles in open fields 
 like in Battlefield 2142. Quake 4's multiplayer is still good and fun for people who loved Quake 
 III's fantastic fast-paced multiplayer, but they could of done something new. Also, Strauss has 
 to be the most annoying character in Quake 4.
  
  GRAPHICS:
  When it was released, Quake 4 had one of best graphics at it's time, by now, in 2008, it still 
 has a very advanced engine which is the Doom 3 engine. Quake 4's textures are pretty detailed but 
 games like Crysis and Call of Duty 4 really makes Quake 4's textures look pretty bad. But does 
 it mean the graphics look bad?, of course not. Quake 4's engine has very good lighting and sometimes 
 shadows. The cool thing about the shadows is that when you go into multiplayer mode, you can actually 
 see your own shadow in first person mode but you can't see it in single-player mode. The lighting 
 is also great too, but like i said, even some of today's console games look better than Quake 4. 
 Let's say Haze on the PlayStation 3 for example. Which has pretty incredible graphics for a console 
 game. Overall, let's say the graphics in Quake 4 is still great.
  
  SOUND:
  The sound i wasn't too crazy about. The voice acting is good and nothing is wrong with it. The 
 weapons sound is great and does suit the Quake style for single-player but the weapon sounds are 
 a bit awkward in multiplayer. The strogg enemies sound really good and do actually sound like if 
 the strogg was in real life. Well, there isn't too much about the sound but overall, the sound 
 is fine and mostly nothing is wrong with it and it fits well in Quake 4.
  
  IS THIS GAME WORTH RENTING OR BUYING:
  It's worth buying for the Quake fans who loved Quake and 
 for people who loves First-Person Shooters with Good graphics, Great single-player, and loves fast-placed 
 multiplayer.
  
  SCORE FOR THIS GAME:
  My score for this game is:
  
  8.5/10 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dgsag
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 25, 2008 9:27 pm PT
Review:  Full review and score breakdown here: http://www. poland. us/strona,33,2385,0. html
  
  John Carmack and his id studio have been practical rockstars in the gaming industry from the time 
 of release of classics such as Commander Keen, Wolfenstein 3D, and Doom. Bringing high-tech engines 
 and some immensely satisfying multiplayer and single player mayhem to the gaming industry, id has 
 steadily grown more and more successful as the years have gone by. Quake, a series that became 
 renowned for its stunning 3D graphics and intense multiplayer action, has since been handed off 
 to other studios while id works on their next engine and game, Tech 5 and Rage, respectively. Quake 
 4 is the direct sequel to Quake 2 and its Strogg storyline, being developed by the renowned Raven 
 Software. But how does Quake 4 hold up in this day and age of giants such as Crysis, Halo, Call 
 of Duty, and others?
  
  The game's opening should be pretty encouraging for those hoping that Quake 4 follows the series' 
 path of grisly and intense scenes. As the game title comes up on screen, the camera pans through 
 a field of destroyed human warships and dead soldiers. All of a sudden, three gigantic carriers 
 jump out of Slipgate drive, swinging past the camera as it pans, revealing a full scale attack 
 on the alien planet of Stroggos with defensive shots racing up from the planet attempting to take 
 down an immense human fleet. It's a great scene, and is indicative of the quality and intensity 
 of later cutscenes.
  
  Your name is Matthew Kane, and you're a member of Rhino squad, one of several units assigned to 
 the invasion of Stroggos. As you approach the planet, your dropship gets shot down and you get 
 separated from your squad. You spend the next half hour or so rendezvousing with various units 
 and eventually meeting up with your squad leader. While this sounds uninteresting, what really 
 makes this scene stand out is the amount of action and fighting happening on screen and in areas 
 that you can watch. Giant Strogg machines march across the field as they trade fire with human-designed 
 walker mechs, human squads fight vigorously to thin the Strogg infantry's huge numbers, Strogg 
 bombers fly overhead and take out human infantry, ship captains call desperately over the radio 
 for the ground forces to take out the Strogg defense cannons, and commanders call in planetary 
 bombardment on Strogg positions. It all adds to a sense of an actual war taking place, and that 
 you're only one small part of a planet-wide conflict. This first act culminates in the landing 
 of the USS Hannibal, the command center of the entire campaign. It really is refreshing when you 
 finally break out into the open field and see the gigantic ship come in for a landing, blasting 
 Strogg towers and defense positions to dust.
  
  The rest of the campaign follows Rhino Squad's attempts to target the Nexus, the network linking 
 all of the Strogg forms together. Your first attempt, using an EMP bomb at a critical site called 
 the Tetranode, fails and you get captured. What follows is a plot twist - SPOILER ALERT- where 
 you are captured and Stroggified, or turned into one of the Strogg. Just before the process is 
 complete, Rhino squad bursts in and saves you. You become the best weapon humans have against the 
 Strogg, and after several more levels of intense set-pieces and battles, you're thrown into a rematch 
 against the leader of the Strogg, the Makron, who personally captured you the first time around. 
 -END SPOILERS
  
  Quake 4's action is standard Quake, which will be quite a magnet for old fans of the series. You 
 carry multiple, powerful death-dealing weapons and engage in linear combat against an extreme number 
 of foes. The action is simply intense, and you'll be whipping your mouse around, hoping that you 
 can take down the Strogg fast enough to stop them from running you over. Your squadmates have an 
 extremely high amount of health, allowing them to prove useful in combat. There aren't any recent 
 innovations, such as destructible environments, cover systems, aiming down sights, or the like; 
 and this might put off gamers looking for something new.
  
  Quake 4's multiplayer component draws on Quake 3's, and is mostly identical except for an odd omission 
 of bots. Otherwise, its the same fast-paced action that fans are familiar with.
  
  Quake 4 is powered by the Doom 3 technology, and as such, it is an impressive looking game. The 
 textures hold up even in this day and age, and lighting and shadowing surpass what most games are 
 capable of even today. The engine scales well and runs smoothly, at least on the PC. It is evident 
 that the Xbox 360 version was a quick port and sloppily done, as there are inconsistent textures 
 and constant framerate drops. Sound effects are quite convincing, with the weapons sounding distinct 
 and the marines exhibiting some surprisingly good voice acting.
  
  Quake 4 is like a trip down memory lane. It takes all that was great in Quake 2's single player 
 and Quake 3's multiplayer and wraps them up in a brand-new engine. What results is a sweet gift 
 for nostalgic fans of the series, but a disappointing release for newcomers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: auxus
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 14, 2008 1:15 pm PT
Review:  This is a very good game. Starting as a space marine in a distant future, submerged into an alien 
 conflict that treatens the Earth, well yeahh kinda like it. To tell the truth i missjudged this 
 game. Now 3 years after buying it, i played, and to tell you the truth it hooked me In until the 
 end, and that's kinda hard for me, cause ts hard to Impress, once you have played crysis, Bioshock 
 , etc. But this game really rocks, the nice action and a lot of missions or objectives keeps you 
 busy while you enjoy killing all the stuff around you. Graphically this game looks awesome, considering 
 it runs in the Doom 3 Engine, and im reviewing it 3 years after. Additionally this game is still 
 used as a tool, for Video Cards and CPU benchmarks. The Sound is very good, the vocalization is 
 excellent , kinda like a movie. The controls are fully customizable, so it's just perfect for yor 
 preferences (i just dont understand why console game doesnt make the game controls fully customizable, 
 as standard setting available) . The story line it a little complicated if you haven't play quake 
 games before or Doom, but it doesnt interfere with the action, and in the end , just need to blow, 
 escort and activate things. So in general, its a great game, awesome grafics, hella sound atmosphere, 
 and a story that make this game a legend between legends to be played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ck753
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 4, 2008 11:02 pm PT
Review:  Quake 4 is an old-school romp with a decidedly morbid twist. Using Doom 3's engine, they built 
 upon it and put out a really polished FPS. And it plays on a reasonable system, at high resolution, 
 as long as you have a decent graphics card (I recommend GeForce 6800 GT or above) .
  
  I played the Quake 4 single player campaign on the hardest difficulty and it was darn tough. It 
 is a decently long campaign (took me maybe 12 to 15 hours) , the levels are interesting and well 
 designed, and the weapons are good old-fashioned sci-fi first-person-shooter fare. You get a couple 
 conventional weapons along with a wagonload of high-tech mayhem.
  
  There are some pretty hellacious battles spaced regularly throughout, so you often go "ulp" whenever 
 the game's autosave function kicks in. You just better hope your ammo, health, and armor are all 
 adequate. I wouldn't go so far as to say these are "epic" battles, but they are not far off the 
 mark. There are many times in the campaign where you really need to unload quickly and in the right 
 direction, cycle through your weapons effectively, and keep moving  in other words run-and-gun 
 like a maniac. Or else you're reloading your last save without knowing what hit you.
  
  The weapons and pitched battles sometimes put me in mind of Serious Sam. Quake 4 has nowhere near 
 the scale of the battles seen in Serious Sam (has any FPS put forward so many enemies at once, 
 and across such vast battlefields?) , but you nevertheless have many opportunities to deplete your 
 ammo and try out all the fun ordnance you're given. The railgun seems a little under-powered, especially 
 when you consider headshots and what you typically expect from a sniper-gun/headshot situation, 
 but for the most part the weapons have a satisfying punch and make the enemy dance and jitter and 
 blow apart.
  
  I don't have too much bad to say about this game. At first, it seemed way too similar to Doom 3 
 for comfort, but that changed quickly as I got further into it (I'm not a big Doom 3 fan) . Still, 
 in the vein of Doom 3, most of the game levels are interior, although Quake 4 does a better job 
 with the level design, I think.
  
  While some of the palettes, architecture, and environments are intricate and intensely interesting 
 to look at  in some cases they are awesome, plain and simple  it's still nice to go outside from 
 time to time. But the few outdoor scenes there are, are pretty drab and dull. There are some wild-looking 
 alien outdoor panoramas rendered in the background, but you stay near the complexes for the most 
 part, and there are no real outdoor environments worth mentioning.
  
  Combine the corridor-crawl with some of the levels dealing with human remains and what-not, and 
 it makes for a grim vacation.
  
  I drool when I think what they might have done if they could have expanded some of the levels, 
 added some RPG elements, and instated some nonlinear paths  Quake 4's look, atmosphere, and level 
 designs would lend themselves well to System Shock 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: falacu
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 2, 2008 5:04 am PT
Review:  If id had made Quake 4 instead of Raven Software, I bet the storyline would have been a tad better. 
 It's too... generic. It's something you have seen before. The ending however..... just plain sucks. 
 It's like they wern't even trying to leave a "cliff-hangar". Other than the storyline (and ending) , 
 the game still makes a good shooter. Using the full arsenal of quake weapons (if not in single 
 player, than in multi-player) , even being able to drive some vehicles (walkers, tanks) , this game's 
 single-player mode is alot of fun. Even multi-player is hard to get tired of. It's like Quake 3 
 multiplayer with WAY better graphics. You can choose a player model from the single player campaign, 
 select your rail gun color (just like Q3) etc. You will almost always find a game to play. Overall, 
 this is a fun addictive game that I highly recomend to anyone who loves FPS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raven_squad
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 21, 2008 8:52 pm PT
Review:  Quake 4 is the fourth installment of the popular Quake series. The sequel to number 2, it takes 
 place during the same war against the Strogg as the game Enemy Territory: Quake Wars.
  In it, you assume the role of Matthew Kane, a member of the famed Rhino Squad. He and the rest 
 of Rhino are tasked with spearheading the invasion of Stroggos, following the defeat of the Makron 
 in Quake 2. Your squads landing craft is shot down in the opening scene, resulting in a nearly 
 solo adventure through the Strogg homeworld to re-join your team and bring down the Strogg hold 
 on the planet. Occasionally you will be accompanied by other marines that offer you health packs 
 and armor repair, as well as weapon upgrades. Throughout your journey, you take on such tasks as 
 shutting down the Tetranode, the center of communications for all the Strogg, as well as blowing 
 up hangars, disarming anti-aircraft cannons, and a fight with the newly rebuilt Makron. 
  
  The game features many familiar weapons such as the rail gun, rocket launcher, assault rifle, handgun, 
 shotgun and grenade launcher, but also has a few series classics like the nail gun, lightning gun, 
 and Hyperblaster that help add to the variety. All of the weapons control well and generally feature 
 some form of secondary fire or zoom. Reload animations are not highly detailed and are short, but 
 are good enough. Weapon models are very detailed and are interesting to look at. The lack of a 
 constant flash light is still a bit frustrating, but easy to get used to. 
  
  The environments are well designed and higly detailed, but lack variety. They all have a very creepy 
 feel about them, and usually have writhing organic body parts worked into them in some fashion, 
 which adds to the creepy vibe. Shadows and effects are first rate. Enemy detail and variety is 
 also kind of lacking, but good enough to not get old too quickly. Bossfights are challenging and 
 fun. 
  
  A couple of times you are stuck in the pilots seat of a tank or walker. These missions help keep 
 the gameplay from getting stale, but feel a bit tacked on. They don't feature anything too unique 
 or enjoyable. Another thing that needs to be mentioned is the Strogification Process cutscene, 
 in which Matthew Kane has robotic parts installed on his body. Its gruesome, unique, and very awesome. 
 One of my favorite cutscenes. 
  
  From a technical standpoint, the game is great. The graphics are clean and smooth, with very sharp 
 and detailed textures and prove that the Doom 3 engine is very capable. When playing on max settings 
 on the PC, the game can still contend with the newcomers in the market, though it takes a decent 
 amount of graphical horsepower to accomplish this. The game can be optimized for dual cores with 
 a patch, and if your running a dual core processor, will significantly improve your performance. 
 
  I have no experience with the 360 version, but have heard that it doesn't run as well and has graphical 
 issues. 
  
  Overall, it doesnt introduce a whole lot of new ideas or gameplay elements, but the singleplayer 
 is a great ride. There are better, more in-depth games out there, but for FPS fans and fans of 
 the series, Quake 4 delivers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kragspire
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 16, 2008 8:32 pm PT
Review:  I really enjoyed Quake 2 because it took the original Quake and added depth and a purpose. I played 
 through the single-player campaign a number of times just for the enjoyable yet shallow story. 
 When Quake 3 came out, I was impressed with it's gameplay but disappointed that id decided to focus 
 only on multiplayer arena combat. When Quake 4 was announced, I was excited if skeptical that id 
 was not doing the heavy lifting this time around. Instead, long time partner Raven software would 
 be doing most of the development of Quake 4. However, Raven has made some impressive single-player 
 campaigns in their own right, including Dark Forces 3, Soldier of Fortune, and Heretic/Hexen. 
 
  
  What you can expect from Quake 4 is a well done single-player campaign. Instead of fighting alone 
 as you once did in Quake 2, this time around you will be accompanied by other marines. Your squad 
 mates have decent AI and will even heal/repair your armor. The Strogg soldiers that you must face 
 are intelligent and down right scary. They work with light teamwork to bring you to your knees, 
 and have no mercy when they are in melee range. The game focuses more on attacking small armies 
 of the Strogg instead of one or two jumping out and giving the player a cheap scare. Even with 
 use of basic tactics, the gun fights are quite impressive as your squad members will yell out random 
 taunts towards the enemy.
  
  What you won't expect from Quake 4 is a well done multi-player component. While the single-player 
 campaign is short but sweet, the multi-player portion is dated. The developers decided to provide 
 the same nostalgic approach to death matching as Doom 3 developers did to theirs. Gameplay is a 
 rehash of Quake 3: Arena with greater system requirements. There are plenty of maps that are just 
 remakes of older Quake levels, leaving you with a "been there, done that" feeling. While death 
 matching is old but playable, I would of thought Quake 4 to take a step up and try something different 
 here.
  
  There are some notable improvements made to Quake 4 over the utilization of the engine in Doom 
 3. The game makes greater strides in attempting to keep you out of pitch darkness, while still 
 having expectable moments of the sort. The weapons are far more interesting even if most are just 
 recycled from other games. I think the big thing though was the lack of randomly spawned monsters, 
 making the continuity of the campaign feel all the more real. Overall, if you are looking for a 
 great single-player campaign that will keep you busy for a few hours, pick up the latest Quake. 
 Just don't expect to think back on the multiplayer with notable memories in a few years time.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Invnincible_777
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 6, 2008 5:44 pm PT
Review:  What can I say - I am a graphics whore! I like strobing HDR lighting, and dynamic shadows, energy 
 blasting from weapons and from distant explosions. I love Characters that look extremely real, 
 and what not. The game characters that you play with are really kind of realistic - you really 
 get to know them. The story was awesome. I will say that the Horror/Dark creatures that has such 
 a profound theme in the quake series turns me off some - but then the action was enjoyable enough 
 to offset that some. I thought the game was quite long, and contained the right amount of variety 
 in the environments. There ARE vehicles in the game, although they only show up briefly, in comparison 
 to the Halo series... The Campaign is what I like about the game. The multiplayer sucks in my opinion. 
 I don't have a super-gamer computer that can dish out frame-rate like air-popped popcorn, so I 
 die lot due to it being choppy. And the cross hairs seems to be too small. And the assault rifle 
 zoom becomes unnecessary. But then, aleast you can go and PLAY online - so overall AWESOME GAME. 
 Good replay value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fastpunk
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 16, 2009 11:19 am PT
Review:  I don't think Quake needs any introductions. The series was made up of three games until Quake 
 4, and all three were quite different. The first two were centered on single-player as much as 
 multiplayer (although their themes differed quite heavily) while the third one dropped the single-player 
 completely for fast arena battles.
  
  The fourth Quake marks a triple first for the series: it's the first Quake that doesn't bring a 
 new theme to the series, it's also the first Quake that is not powered by new technology (instead 
 it uses a modified version of the Doom 3 engine) , and finally, it's the first Quake that is not 
 developed by id Software themselves, development has been carried out by Raven Software.
  
  Story-wise, Quake 4 picks up right where Quake 2 left off. After Quake 2's protagonist managed 
 to kill the Makron, Earth's forces start the final assault on the enemy. You play Matthew Kane, 
 a member of Rhino Squad, and your task is to finish off the alien Strogg once and for all. In order 
 to accomplish this task you will be aided by various soldiers from your side of the barricade, 
 which prove to be quite competent thanks to solid AI. Of course, the enemies are no pushovers either; 
 actually, they are very aggressive and can deal a lot of damage if you're not fast on the trigger 
 and well aware of your surroundings.
  
  But of course, the weapons are your closest friends in this game. And Quake 4 offers a fine selection 
 of weapons. Aside from the enforcer you start off with, every weapon is powerful and useful, no 
 filler stuff here. Raven really did an outstanding job of tweaking and perfecting the feel of every 
 piece of hardware you get to use throughout the campaign. The end result is an arsenal that sounds 
 and feels modern and very deadly.
  
  But another thing the developers got right is the portrayal of this war and the factions involved. 
 Most war games put you against an enemy you know little about... the game just tells you they're 
 evil. Well, in Quake 4 you'll witness just how twisted and sick your enemy really is, so you will 
 not be lacking the motivation to stop them. Some of the things you get to see in this game are 
 a bit rough and disgusting, so I wouldn't recommend Quake 4 to anyone under 18. The humans themselves 
 are quite well portrayed too. There are no cliche army tards who spit out wave after wave of curses 
 to show how macho they are. There are a few jokes and one-liners here and there, but chatter is 
 kept to a minimum and usually about the task at hand. It's quite obvious that Raven understood 
 how a sci-fi war game with horror elements should look and feel like, so hats off to them.
  
  Also, Quake 4 has excellent pacing. You will not be shooting all the time, the action is broken 
 down quite well by great-looking cutscenes, small puzzles or vehicle sequences. Truth be told, 
 the vehicle implementation is kind of minimal; it's not really problematic, but these sequences 
 feel more like an afterthought than a fully-fledged adoption of vehicle-based combat.
  
  Another aspect of the game that needs to be mentioned is the story, which is nothing special (although 
 it has a nice plot twist about half-way through that also impacts gameplay to a certain extent) , 
 but your objectives always make sense and are well presented so you'll always know what to do.
 
  
  Moving on, the multiplayer is quite an interesting case. It's obvious that Raven didn't aim to 
 reinvent the wheel. So Quake 4's multiplayer looks and feels very much like Quake 3, which is anything 
 but bad to be honest. Quake 3 was tweaked to (almost) perfection and was tons of fun, Quake 4 multiplayer 
 is quite similar... the only issue is that levels look nothing like the levels you see in campaign 
 mode. This makes Quake 4 feel like two different games in one pack, but make no mistake, it's well 
 worth going online. Fun is fun, right?
  
  Lastly, the game looks and sounds excellent. My only complaint is that exteriors look a bit weird: 
 the bump mapping on the terrain makes it look real enough, but exteriors seem lit by light bulbs, 
 they don't feel lit by natural sunlight. It's weird, but nothing serious. There are also a few 
 areas where the frame-rate drops a bit, but that doesn't happen often enough to interfere with 
 the experience. The sound effects are excellent (gun sfx are especially well done) and the voice 
 acting is good all around. The aggressive industrial music is also in perfect sync with the overall 
 theme of the game, so that's another plus.
  
  Overall, I have to say, Quake 4 is quite an impressive game. It resembles Doom 3 in some areas, 
 but it's got more personality, and feels well put together. It's never stale, it just keeps going. 
 Go out and buy this game, you'll have tons of fun with it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anti18
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 24, 2008 10:31 am PT
Review:  The latest installment to the Quake series is Quake 4. Quake 4 will take you to the battlefield 
 against an alien like opponent called the Strogg. The story has many twists and turns to keep the 
 game interesting and compelling. Also, relationships can be gained between you and the other characters 
 as you fight to the death along side of them. The gameplay is fast paced and fun. Run and gun action 
 that never slows down. Most of the time you will be fighting with your squad but there are parts 
 where you will be alone. The guns are great and fun to use and the enemy A. I. is good also. Graphically, 
 if your PC can handle it, Quake 4 looks amazing in high settings. Characters look real and textures 
 look fantastic. The sound is also great. The never ending sound of Cpl. Kahne's machine gun never 
 gets old. The online is fun but can be very difficult for somebody new to the Quake series. All 
 in all Quake 4 is the best Quake yet. You will find yourself hooked and won't want to take your 
 eyes off the screen. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jfsebastianII
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 4, 2008 6:52 am PT
Review:  just played this game for the first time - even though a few years old is great fun and firmly 
 puts the action first.
  
  it basically continues where Quake II finished, and is very similar to that game, obviously with 
 better graphics and you get the chance to drive tanks, and fight alongside team-mates - the good 
 news is you don; t have to command those team mates, and they can be useful if they're medics or 
 technicians, replenishing your health/armour and improving your weapons.
  
  there are a variety of enemies, with the most chilling factor being that they are manufactured 
 from your former colleagues. as with Quake II, you get to see the whole grisly process of how they 
 convert people, so the '18' rating is a necessity, but if you take it with the humour intended 
 it's OK - though i did have to turn my head a couple of times about half-way through - those who've 
 played it will know what i mean...
  
  definitely a game any FPS fan should play.
  
  play on second-hardest level for fast-paced action, or hardest level if you want those bosses to 
 REALLY test you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: edito24
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 28, 2008 2:43 am PT
Review:  Story: Good story about redemption, revenge and the ultimate fight between humans and the strogg. 
 satisfying story and doesnt dissappoint. Keeps you sufficiently interested to finish the fight, 
 however the ending is not very climatic at all. Leaves space for a sequel.
  
  Graphics: Doom 3 engine looks great. Graphics are still top notch for the pc, but i have heard 
 the 360 version suffers from performance issues.
  character models are great, and so are the textures. Handles well with midrange graphics cards.
 
  
  Sound is great, great SFX.
  
  gameplay: Great FPS but i feel that some of the guns dont carry the punch they should with exception 
 of the shotgun (handgun is practically worthless) . You get a variety of game play such as using 
 a mech (awesome) , using a tank, and a gunner position.
  Gameplay is solid but nothing revolutionary.
  
  Multiplayer portion is available, but havent 
 had much time to play it. Looks ok.
  
  Overall, the game is definitely worth your time, kept me coming back to continue the fight. Decent 
 game length and is the perfect action FPS fix. This game is just plain fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sand-which
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 26, 2008 10:25 am PT
Review:  Man this game rocks.
  Ya i got my hands on this game in 2007 december 27. Till this day i have finished it three times. Ya 
 ya i no like its kinda i mean way out of date these days :P. But any ways this game has some parts 
 which may (missions, weapons etc) come closer to Doom 3, but those are way better than Doom 3. U'll 
 never go bored.
  
  Beside the awsome graphics and special effects, the gameplay is maxed out for me. If u hate blood 
 and gore, horror dont even bother touching this game lol.
  
  I am a quake fan i own all 5 game (including quake wars) .
  
  Talking about the multiplayer 
 value hmmmmmm. it's good but not good as quake wars cuz quake wars is born multiplayer u no what 
 i mean.
  
  I havent Noticed any bugs yet too. I think this game deserves 9.5 (editors choice) . O'well its the 
 'editors choice' lol.
  
  Lets Talk About the Critical Responce!
  
  Reviews of the game were generally favorable for the PC version of the game, with game databases 
 Metacritic and MobyGames giving the game aggregate review scores of 79/100 and 81/100 respectively. 
 Websites and magazines such as IGN and UGO praised its single-player campaign, graphics and Hollywood 
 voice-acting, but complained that its multiplayer was too much like Quake III's. Gamespot gave 
 Quake 4 an 8.0 and it also said: "The single-player is great fun, but the uninspired multiplayer 
 leaves a lot to be desired." A few days after release the majority of reviews gave Quake 4 scores 
 of 8090%. PC Gamer Magazine gave Quake 4 a good review for both singleplayer and multiplayer gameplay.
 
  
  The Xbox 360 version of the game fared considerably worse with critics when it was released, scoring 
 only 74/100 on Metacritic, and 75/100 on MobyGames averaged scores.] EGM gave a mixed rating to 
 the Xbox 360 port, claiming that the single-player campaign was not creative enough to compete 
 with other games such as Half-Life 2 and Halo 2 and that the game ran poorly on the 360. Gamespot 
 gave it a worse rating than the PC version: 6.6. They also wrote, "There's a good game in Quake 
 4, but it's buried under several layers of highly disappointing graphical performance issues." 
 X-Play gave the Xbox 360 version a 3/5 and the PC version a 4/5.
  
  If U Wanna No The Story Read.............
  
  The Quake 4 single player mode continues the story 
 of Quake II by pitting the player against a cyborg alien race known as the Strogg. The game follows 
 the story of a marine named Matthew Kane who is a member of the fabled Rhino Squad. Following the 
 success of the protagonist of Quake II in destroying the Strogg's leader, the Makron, the Rhinos 
 are tasked with spearheading the mission to finally secure the alien's home planet Stroggos. In 
 the course of the invasion, the squad ship is shot down and crashes in the middle of a battle zone, 
 separating Kane from his companions. Kane eventually rejoins his scattered team members and partakes 
 in the assault against the Strogg.
  
  After performing a number of tasks, such as destroying and capturing Strogg aircraft hangars and 
 defense systems, Kane and his remaining squad members make it to the USS Hannibal. There they are 
 given their next mission: infiltrating one of the Strogg's central communication hubs, the Tetranode, 
 with an electromagnetic pulse bomb in the hope that it will put the main Strogg Nexus in disarray. 
 Kane is tasked with defending the mission convoy, which takes heavy casualties. After many setbacks, 
 including the destruction of the EMP device by a Strogg ambush, Kane is left to complete the mission, 
 assisted only by Private Johann Strauss and Lance Corporal Nikolai "Sledge" Slidjonovitch. Strauss 
 figures out a way to destroy the core by shutting down its coolant systems. As Kane reaches the 
 entrance to the Tetranode, however, he is greeted by two rocket-equipped network guardians - as 
 well as the newly constructed Makron. The Makron easily defeats Kane and knocks him unconscious.
 
  
  When Kane finally awakens, he finds himself strapped to a conveyor belt in the Strogg "Medical 
 Facilities", a structure used for turning those captured and killed by the aliens either into protein 
 food or additional Strogg units. In a long and gruesome first-person cutscene, Kane is taken through 
 this stroggification process which violently replaces much of his anatomy with bio-mechanical parts. 
 Before the final controlling neurochip implanted in his brain can be activated, though, Rhino Squad 
 bursts into the facility and rescues Kane. After escaping through the Strogg medical facility and 
 Waste Disposal plant, fighting off zombie-like half-stroggified humans along the way, Kane is forced 
 to combat his former commander, Lieutenant Scott Voss, who has been fully stroggified into a powerful 
 mechanized monster. (Voss nevertheless retains his own consciousness long enough to warn Kane.) 
 After defeating this threat, Kane and the remaining marines finally make it back to the Hannibal.
 
  
  The commanders realize that Kane's Strogg physiology has opened up new possibilities for defeating 
 the Strogg, as he can be used to infiltrate locations previously impenetrable to human forces. 
 The new plan is to directly target the Strogg Core, a huge centralized brain-like structure which 
 controls the alien forces. Rhino and Raven Squads are tasked with infiltrating the three data processing 
 towers adjacent to the Nexus, a huge data storage and processing tower. There, they will power 
 up the teleporter used to access the Nexus and send Kane in. Once inside, Kane will travel to the 
 center of the Nexus to destroy the Core and its guardian.
  
  After infiltrating the facility and realigning the data nodes powering the teleporter, and destroying 
 its fearsome "Guardian" creature, [9] Kane finally reaches the Nexus core. There he meets the Makron 
 in a final showdown and kills it. This done, he destroys the Core and returns to the Hannibal. 
 Celebrating with Rhino Squad afterward, Kane receives word that he has new orders ...
  
  Better Explained Info About The Multiplayer GamePlay......................
  
  Multiplayer modes 
 are Deathmatch, Team Deathmatch, Tourney, Capture the Flag, Arena CTF and DeadZone. Players at 
 Quakecon reported the multiplayer gameplay to include elements similar to those in previous Quake 
 games such as Strafe-jumping or Rocket jumping. Notable new additions to play are the ability to 
 send shots through the teleporters and the advancement of the game physics provided by the new 
 technology including the ability to bounce grenades off the jump-pads.
  
  Like the previous Quake games the multiplayer has a client-server architecture. The network code 
 has been altered from Doom 3, allowing for larger numbers of players on each server (Doom 3 has 
 a four player restriction, whereas Quake 4 has a standard 16 player limit) . One of the changes 
 to the network code is a move from the per-polygon hit detection system used in Doom 3 back to 
 using hit-box system like most other online first-person shooters such as other Quake games and 
 Half-Life.
  
  Five of the more popular mods for Quake 4 are Q4MAX, XBM, DeltaCTF, GTR and Q4SupremacyMod. [citation 
 needed] Q4MAX is the most developed of these, offering many HUD, frame-rate, and gameplay tweaks 
 and fixes. Q4MAX is used for the majority of tournaments, and used by the Cyberathlete Professional 
 League.
  
  Nicknames can be colorized with most keyboards by typing the ^ character, followed by 0 through 
 9 to specify the color. Using idm0 or iw00 through iw09 will display images varying from a skull, 
 to various weapon symbols. Most often used for nicknames under multiplayer, these character sequences 
 can be typed into config files, the console, and chat text.
  
  Thx Reading My Reveiw If U like it pls Recomend It :D!
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: qrEE
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 18, 2008 8:08 pm PT
Review:  take every quake game and fuse them with doom 3 and what do you get? quake. The game is great. 
 I cannot describe how great it is. Its got great graphics, great gameplay, great storyline, and 
 great monsters. If you want to see a variety of amazing enemies, this is the right game to play. 
 ranging from cyborgs with little shotguns to huge piles of machinery with shoulder mounted rail 
 guns, this game has everything. Some little things it lacks are vehicle abilities, such as not 
 being able to enter them whenever you feel like it, and the feel, for instance how it feels that 
 your playing doom 3 all over again. The game really is an improvement from doom 3. It changed the 
 slow, dark, satanic feel to a fast, outdoor, killing field. It has some amazing boss battles, great 
 weapons, and the greatest gameplay I've ever experienced. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: r4v3gl0ry
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 21, 2007 6:26 pm PT
Review:  Quake. Quake. Quake. 
  
  Quake.
  
  Quake 2.
  
  Quake 3 Arena. 
  
  Quake Wars. 
  
  Quake 4--
  
  Wait. Hold that thought. Isn't Quake 4 supposed to be... uh... sorta 
 revolutionary for its time? I mean, its predecessors were in their own times. But this... this probably 
 started the whole trend for "hardcore" military shooters, didn't it? Well, it certainly WAS revolutionary 
 in a way. A... bad way.
  
  Gameplay -- Come on now, Id software... this isn't the Quake from 1996, so don't treat it like that. 
 The gameplay is way too basic. You shoot. An enemy pops out of a vent. You keep shooting, and you 
 reload. Then, you meet up with your squad. Hell, you can't even bash an enemy in the head with 
 the butt of your rifle. There are no melee mechanics, and NO challenges along the way. 
  
  Save it. You needn't ask me about puzzles or anything. You have to meet up with teammates, escort 
 them, and backtrack for new objectives. You do this while shooting. And shooting. 
  
  And, as unsurprising as this may seem, you fight the same enemies. Just with maybe a different 
 weapon each time. But, of course, new weapons don't make a difference. They don't do CRAP. Why kill 
 a a Strogg trooper by blowing him up into the air with a grenade launcher when you can just machinegun 
 him to death?? 'Cause you know how it ends anyway -- he dies. 
  
  What I actually DO like about this game is its atmosphere, though it could be ruined sometimes 
 when the game gives you a maze to go through in order to complete an objective. It's dark, and 
 it seems as if anything could happen inside the Strogg HQ. Then, there's the Hannibal, the humans' 
 ship. It's very complex and futuristic, and it captures the sense of... having teammates around 
 you. It's safe, which is what that kind of a ship should be like. 
  
  Sound + Graphics -- I love this game's soundtrack, and I wouldn't have minded if the makers made 
 the music volume deafening. 
  
  Graphics are pretty nice for a game released in 2005. I'm impressed, because even Quake Wars's 
 graphics make me hurl. The textures aren't too bland, and everything else looks fine. 
  
  Multiplayer -- I don't usually review the multiplayer components of most games, but I'll say this: 
 Why do players move so fast on multiplayer maps? Why? I mean, I can see how fragfests like Unreal 
 Tournament and other Quake games can have this, BUT WHY KEEP IT THERE??
  
  Seriously, I can't even catch opposing players with the alien weapons. In singleplayer mode, you 
 move slowly, realistically. In multiplayer, you're a cheetah. It really takes out the whole purpose 
 of having a multiplayer component to me. 
  
  Overall, this is just another regular military shooter. It's a shame, though. I thought Id could 
 pull off something "new" like they always do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: r2d2c3p0
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 7, 2007 6:53 pm PT
Review:  Kill everthing in sight using a variety of weapons and vehicles to save mankind from aliens who 
 aren't that bright.
  
  Yeh, standard FPS stuff that will not set the FPS world a blaze.
  
  But when you do so much correctly you create a fun and enjoyable game.
  
  Great graphics 
 and sound. Long game with a variety of levels that mostly involve blowing the @#$% out of the enemy. 
 Effective weapons, neat vehicles and well designed spaces keep my interest.
  
  Enemy A. I. is average with some runnig at you while others will attack from a distance.
  
  
 Controls work well and I've not encountered any bugs. 
  
  Easy to recommend as a fun "Blaster" style FPS 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lorddessan91
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 19, 2007 10:44 am PT
Review:  Hm... Quake 4 is a very good continuation of Quake 2, the story is again well told, the graphics is 
 very smooth... well, like its predecessor that's just another dose of pure action... a liked that 
 game pretty much, I don't know why, but it's very good shoot-and-walk FPS... It was hard at some point, but 
 not really :) The level design is just killer... there is plenty of enemies... Actually, the game becomes 
 interesting, when you turn into a Strogg (but you keep your humanity) , you are the corporal Cane, but 
 in an another body, well that's good, because it gives you 125 health and armor, there were only two 
 or there scary levels, but they were short (I'm talking about the levels with the marine-zombies) ... The 
 boss battlers are amazing. The game worths the playing, but it's nothing you've never seen... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cameron06
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 12, 2007 7:50 am PT
Review:  Its hard not to know the Quake series its a long running franchise of very successful FPS games. 
 Usually featuring alot of blood and gore with a undergoing plot which is just intersting anough 
 to keep the player intersed.
  
  Really to sum it up Quake 4 is a all an all awsome FPS game, but is not really a revolutionary 
 game but more of what you've come to love of the Quake franchise, Its great for new comers and 
 even better for veterans of the series.
  
  Story:
  You play as a space marine named Matthew Cane a member of the Rhino squad. Your sent down the the 
 planet named strogos in which the war is taking palce aggenst the strogg, but apon entering the 
 planet's astmosphere your ship isattacked by a missle causing you to crash land killing most of 
 your crew. But you manage to pick yourself back up and get back into the war. Along the way you'll 
 not only help your own squad but many other squads. But your main goal in the game is to push back 
 the strogg and turn the side of the war. The story can be completed in under 10 hours I really 
 couldent stop playing it so I guess passing the game in under 8 hours is possible, but the story 
 is so fun to play thourgh that one time is defantly not anough.
  
  Design:
  The basic level structure involves doing a bunch of millitary operations like blowing up something, 
 vehicle missions, estcort missions and activating or deactivating something in which helps you 
 to progess. The level structure is good and usually linear, very rarely or ever you'll get lost 
 or not know what to do. The game also does a good job of putting in auto save spots mostly when 
 you need them but they still arnt consistent anough, but lucky there is a save feature which lets 
 you save anywhere you like which is extremly handy during the later parts of the game. Another 
 thing which is worth mentioning is the enemy AI its not half bad but there are a few problems like 
 which diffucility to start om, if you start on the easyest diffucility the damage count in good 
 though the AI is brain dead they'll usually be looking in the exact opposite direction you are 
 looking at them when they are trying to find you and the enimies do die quite easly. My reccomendation 
 is the normal diffucility, its well balanced but can be quite fustrating during the end of the 
 game since enimies do seem unfairly strong but mostly only the enimies which appear during the 
 end of the game, but this problem is apparent on both diffucilitys. Just a note though the game 
 is very gory and if you are thinking about purching the game for a youger family member its not 
 the best for anyone under 13 to say the least, and they better be able to handle extreme amount 
 of blood, body parts being chopsed off and lots of brutal death sequiences, But thats most of the 
 fun of Quake 4.
  
  Gameplay:
  The gameplay is basicly samilla to most FPS game you'll find on the market thease days but the 
 Quake games have allways had a sertin feel to them which makes them unique. The type of enimies 
 you'll be battling aggenist aint a huge number of vairants but they are still a good number of 
 different and unique enimies. Also the guns are worthy of mentioning for the most time you'll be 
 relying on your trusty machine gun to do the job, but there are some "location specific" guns which 
 work best for some locations like the shotgun is best for tight room since that it usually kills 
 enemies real fast ETC. The different amount of weapons you'll obtain is a good amount and switching 
 between is a breeze with just using the scroll ball on your mouse to cycle through them wich makes 
 it very easy. Small puzzle elemnts do appear very late in the game though they are not hard at all 
 and are more fun then puzzling.
  
  Presentation:
  Quake 4 is made of the enigne that fuled the monster Doom 3, and even by today's standards this 
 is still a great looking game by any means nessary. the shadows, lightings, textures and module 
 designs are very detailed and even on mid settings the game still looks good. If you think this 
 game is scary then you are dead wrong, Im a whimp when it comes to scary games but this one was 
 not scary at all. If you are wondering if you coputer can run this game, then dont have any fear 
 any system built within 2 years with a dedecated 256MB video card should be able to play this game 
 on mid-high settings.
  
  Multiplayer:
  Quake 4 does have a small multiplayer componet which is not too bad but it insent to great either 
 supporting up to 16 people in multiplay in your standared game modes which appear in all multiplayer 
 games. Its basicly just a better looking verson of Quake 3, if you want to look at the multiplayer 
 in a sinple way its basicly a striped down verson of the single player mode with all the weapons 
 from the campain avialable to find and use. If your looking from something big from the multiplayer 
 your most likely going to be dissapointed but thats what "Enemy Territory: Quake Wars" is for.
 
  
  Final thoughts:
  Quake 4 is a perfect example of why the FPS genre is so appealing it pulls of all the aspects of 
 what makes a FPS great and with an intersting story. With fun gameplay and a great arsnal of weapons 
 at your disopal and even more playtime can be milked out of the game with the great amounts of 
 intersting mods avialable, which some are really intersting. Quake 4 is a fun, fantastic, good, 
 great, awsome, sick, sweet, cool, fun, gory and just an out a outstanding FPS. but the same cannot 
 be said about the multiplayer unfortantly.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: krazyorange
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 2, 2007 5:56 pm PT
Review:  I've been with the Quake franchise since the third iteration way back in 1999, and since have played 
 many versions including the port for Dreamcast, of which I spent hundreds of hours gathered with 
 three friends around the TV, Quake for the Nintendo 64, Quake II, Quake, and now, finally, the 
 newest go-around of Humans vs. Strogg. To be fair, games with such high-profiles are put under 
 microscopic treatment more, assuming their funding and talent with which they were developed; as 
 such, Quake 4 has a considerably-lower score than other games of lesser quality.
  
  That being said, Q4 reminded me constantly of the original Doom with equal parts Halo; Doom's simplistic 
 run-and-gun, button-pushing style with Halo's incessant backtracking, uninteresting latter half, 
 and the conclusion with leaves a resounding bitter taste in your mouth. As the game is over two 
 years old at this point, I'm not going to shy away from plot-specific points, so if you're overly-concerned 
 with story and have yet to partake, read no further. (Of course, if you are playing Q4 with the 
 intention of being told a lavish story, prepare to be disappointed.)
  
  I'll address the Doom-like features first, which are a two-sided coin which plays to nostalgic 
 gamers well and new-age, thinking gamers sourly. Keeping it simple, Q4's gameplay never ventures 
 far beyond the Go here, do that, come back, and then go here, do that... which produces a very 
 monotonous pacing and aftertaste. If you appreciate this style of simplistic gaming, you will be 
 overjoyed to find Q4 is chock-full of it. Allow me to restate: besides occasional (and bad) vehicular 
 combat moments and rare alternatives, that is the extent of the gameplay, period.
  
  In regards to Halo gameplay, the second half of Quake 4 is boring. I felt the entire time I was 
 forcing myself to play through to completion, and that I wasn't actually having fun and enjoying 
 myself. After every pitched battle or major conflict I listened as I spouted profanities surrounding 
 a core idea of they think this is fun? Why the **** would they think that is fun?! That wasn't 
 ******* fun! The last two boss battles are incredibly easy -each can be dispatched by four or five 
 shots from the BFG- and the sequences leading up to those points are far more challenging. The 
 entire second half involves the activation of three laser beams (or information beams; I wasn't 
 particularly focused on the story elements) , each located in a tower which you must battle to the 
 top of, and then a final tower which houses irritating segments and an easy boss. Additionally, 
 the conclusion is poor which is the moldy cherry on top of a sub-par, if not outright bad, second 
 half.
  
  Luckily, the first half is wonderful, entertaining, and showcases Q4's strong gameplay elements. 
 Players are immersed in the Human-Strogg war quickly and with no mercy as they must rejoin their 
 squad by battling through Strogg light forces. The beginning is one of the few points were exteriors 
 look good; elsewhere, the environment is full of washed-out colors, lousy textures, and the game 
 generally takes this opportunity to place you in the driver's seat -or gunner's position- of a 
 vehicle. Furthermore, these vehicle elements are awful and embarrassing, doing nothing to compete 
 with other such segments in modern first-person shooters. In fact, they were the cataclysmic factor 
 in the low score.
  
  Good thing the game is titled Quake, and features Strogg, railguns, and the Lightning Gun. Otherwise, 
 this would be a generic shooter with nothing original and shiny graphics. Which, might I add, are 
 damn good graphics... at least inside. Unfortunately, uneven frame rates bog Q4 down further into 
 the game, and sometimes provide for insanely-frustrating and profanity-filled deaths. I was not 
 amused.
  
  But, I love Quake. This game is irresistible and does show off the nostalgic elements which made 
 the first-person shooter genre a phenomenon. My real qualms are that Raven brought nothing new 
 with their effort, and ultimately abolishes any amount of joy fighting Strogg can bring. Do not 
 take Quake 4 as a terrible game -it most definitely is not- it simply isn't all Quake 4 could have 
 been at the hands of its creators. Hopefully the inevitable Quake 5 will torch the genre and blow 
 this sub-par outing clean out of the galaxy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thejackal465
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 24, 2007 1:12 pm PT
Review:  Before I begin, I have to tell you a little story. Once upon a time, in a land of flowers where 
 fantasies are never final, (and where mushrooms and turtles are the enemy -- I am sure) there happened 
 an event even more astounding than the time Local Princess Rainbow Brite declared the woodland 
 creatures an affont to God, initiating a century-long jihad against their kind. No -- this was even 
 worse. Square decided to release a discontinuity in its Final Fantasy series in America. Many millions 
 climbed buildings and jumped to their doom to escape this horror before it was revealed that one 
 of the titles was simply not released in the continental states. I tell you this, not only so that 
 you feel the terror that Square inspires in us in our happy-go-lucky land of chocolate streams 
 and cupcake fields, but also to explain why Quake four is actually the second in the Strogg-fighting 
 series. Quake was a doom-like game released a while back for PC. Quake 2 was released using the 
 same engine, but with a different story alltogether -- where a space marine fights the cybernetic 
 alien race of Strogg. Quake 3 followed in the footsteps of Quake and Quake 4 followed Quake 2. 
 Basically, The even Quake titles follow one story and the odd follow something entirely unrelated. 
 Now that this is out of my system, I will begin my review.
  
  Quake 4 plays a great First Person Shooter. The story is good. The adventure is sweet. The game 
 overall is alright. Notice my wording. Why is it that I am using sweet, good and alright as opposed 
 to solid, awesome, or even the overkill that is flauciojibberanus? Because that is what it is -- Its 
 a good game, not a great game. Let me throw a few random words and phrases out in the open: sterile, 
 linear, repetative, footless, exploding barrels. All of these words describe a typical FPS -- and 
 all of these words describe Quake 4. The environments are (for the most part) sterile, not dynamic -- there 
 is little interaction between main character Matthew Kane and the world around him. His shotgun 
 blasts clang off walls without dammaging them, even his dark matter gun blasts fail to char the 
 upholstery of the Strogg facilities. The game is very linear with repetative enemies (always the 
 same half man/half machine alien (with a few variants) ) -- looking down will not allow you to see 
 your character's feet (not a fatal problem, but noteworthy) -- and even the toughest gun battles 
 may be shortened by a few quick rounds into a conveniently located exploding barrel.
  
  The story, however, is solid: as space marine Matthew Kane, you are sent to the Strogg homeworld 
 to destroy their bases after their leader, the Makron, was assasinated in Quake 2. Things are going 
 smoothly until you are taken hostage by the Strogg's new Makron and turned into a Strogg, yourself 
 (during a creepy but cool first person cinema showing the strogg installing cybernetic implants 
 into your paralyzed body) . Your marine buddies stop the Strogg at the last second before they can 
 jack you in to the Nexus, thereby giving them control over you and you become an instrumental piece 
 of the Marines' plans to assasinate this new Makron and destroy the Nexus once and for all.
  
  HeadshotJackal's Rating:
  I gave this game a 6.5/10. The game runs fine, but fine can only 
 get you so far. A creepy, fun FPS, but that's really all it is -- an FPS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: halo-tech3
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 20, 2007 7:01 am PT
Review:  This Game is so crazy I cant stop playing it! The campaign rocks! Graphics are superb! Multiplayer 
 is... well lets not get onto that section, but anyway, THIS GAME ROCKS! I wonder if there is any 
 good mods. ive always been good at games like these... especially these... I AM NOT GOOD AT MULTIPLAYER! 
 I GET PWNED! Then usually I get banned for sucking. I love the weapons in this game. The weapons 
 are so easy to kill with. I Really love the ragdoll mode, it is so fun watching bodies go flying! 
 The blood effects are really good to. I love a good bloody game. Rock on Quake! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sarcadoz
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 8, 2007 11:18 am PT
Review:  The fourth in a series of interesting games delivers a great amount of speedy shooter action in 
 a beautifully designed environment making use of the Doom 3 engine. The story somewhat follows 
 in the wake of Quake 2 putting you right in the war between humans and the strogg, an alien race. 
 You play a 'legend' within the space marine corps - Cpl. Matthew Kane - who sets out as a member 
 of Rhino Squad to destroy the Nexus, the soul of the strogg.
  
  The game looks and feels great. Everything seems to have been thought through carefully. Graphics 
 are looking very nice except for some glitches and weird shadows. The lighting looks too sharp 
 and some areas are completely black even though they should be just a bit darker than the rest. 
 The level design is usually very interesting, ranging from the weird and disgusting waste processing 
 area to the high-tech nexus core.
  
  The game goes at a fast pace requiring you to be on your toes almost all of the time but it also 
 gives you a break once in a while. The storyline is a bit dull but still quite ok for a shooter. 
 It features some little twists and turns but nothing too spectacular. Still, it constantly maintains 
 a certain tension that will keep you interested which increases towards the end of the game and 
 takes place in a climactic battle against the Makron, supreme leader of the strogg, and the Nexus 
 which is the overmind controlling the strogg forces.
  
  One thing there is to say about boss battles. First off, they are pretty easy and second they are 
 just straightforward shooting. No tricks, no gadgets, no 'using-the-environment'. Except for the 
 boss battle. But concerning that one you just have to aim a bit higher to hit the critical point, 
 no complex thinking here. And additionally to that, the ending is rather unfulfilling. No feeling 
 of accomplishment because tt just ends and leaves you waiting for more.
  
  The weapons in Quake 4 are great. They feel, sound and perform absolutely awesome and are also 
 enhanced throughout the game to make them more powerful or add some neat features (e. g. your rocket 
 launcher is modified so you can guide the rockets after launching them) . Depending on your style 
 of play, ammo could become scarce in some parts but usually you will have plenty at your disposal. 
 In some parts you can also control vehicles. Those scenes are a nice variation to the game though 
 one of the vehicles - an exoskeleton walker - is heavy and frustrating to control.
  
  The multiplayer mode basically goes for the formula that made Q3 Arena a great game. It's about 
 the same except for better graphics and the enhanced weaponry. Though some people criticize the 
 fact that it's nothing new I don't think it really has to be. After all we want some fast and simple 
 action and that's just what we get with the multiplayer mode.
  
  So, to sum it up: Quake 4 is a shooter that feels, sounds and looks great in every aspect and it 
 provides you with some of the best FPS action seen in a while. I can heavily reccommend getting 
 that game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shingler10
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 8, 2007 2:24 am PT
Review:  Graphics, gameplay, weapons, enemys they are all to good to be true (well, graphics are okay lol) 
 The missions have just the right balance of difficulty and action, enemys are plentifull and varied, 
 the use of vehicles throughout the game is a big +. overall the game plays really well and is definatley 
 worth the cash. Multiplayer, immm not so sure about. Much better than Doom 3, you can actually 
 see where your going! and there is a bit of logic to the game, not just mindless violence! the 
 stroyline, wow, who'd of thought lol!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! i need to make this review one hundread 
 words 
::::::

::::::
UserName: majicebe
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 5, 2007 12:37 am PT
Review:  Upside: Great graphics for when it came out. Old-school feel. Turret levels are fun and a welcome 
 reprieve (if a bit tough) . Slight change in gameplay halfway through the game keeps it interesting. 
 Good attempt at portraying the idea of a team of space marines -- feels like some of it could be 
 deleted scenes from Aliens (sans Sigourney) . Enemies are smarter than your average bear, or Caco-demon 
 for that matter.
  
  Downside: Overly linear. No need to use more than default blaster weapon other than for bosses 
 (also could be a good thing depending on how you look at it) for the entire game. Perhaps too many 
 image back-drops; it often feels like the 30ft in front of you is real and everything beyond is 
 just a big painting... which is pretty much is. Gross for the sake of being gross (if there is 
 such a thing) . Space marine team is window dressing at best, little team feel , which seems odd 
 as much as they're all together. NO BOTS in multi-player... nuff said.
  
  Overall: Fun game, even though it is pretty much more of the same. The game feels like you're battling 
 a much grosser/dirtier BORG most of the time, but set 30 years in the future in our universe -- 
 also with interstellar travel.
  
  Bottom-line: Worth a play if you enjoy FPS games of the mid-to-late 90's nature, and don't mind 
 looking at headless, upside-down torsos making puking sounds into gore-covered machinery. Good 
 clean family fun... or something. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: witex9494
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 31, 2007 4:45 am PT
Review:  This game is great! Lots of weaponry ( nice weapon detail) and huge game itself.
  It's worth playing it, graphics are amazing as well as the game-play but Multi-player is neither 
 bad nor great.
  
  As you play this game longer storyline becomes more fun, because when u will get to the specific 
 level you character will change a lot worse.
  
  Also you will ride high-tech vehicles: Walkers, mini-tanks etc....
  
  Multi-player is not good 
 because after a while the game-play in multi-player gets a bit boring and a bit too fast.
  
  But even if Multi-player is not great I recommend buying this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChicaQueenWarGa
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 1, 2007 5:28 pm PT
Review:  This game completely blew me away. I loved the Quake series.
  The story is basically the tension between the GDF (Earth) and the Strogg (alliens) . This is set 
 into the future, but still seems like a Quake or Doom game.
  
  ~Gameplay~
  The monsters are just incredible. There are different monsters that fight differently. Some might 
 stay back and defend each other, some might come out into the open and guard their fellow teammates 
 behind them, some might come sprinting at you and just push you back. There are many guns and most 
 of them are familiar, rail gun, pistol, machine gun, etc. There are many vehicles also.
  
  ~Story~
  This story was built so well. I really don't want to release any spoilers and such, 
 but a lot of the movie scenes are bloody and gory. The voices are quiet though. It's very hard 
 to hear them.
  There's one movie scene where an alien is trapped in a closed container and he looks like he's 
 sleeping . Your friend is standing right next to the container, and the aliens eyes open wide. 
 I was thinking, Wow. He's gonna die . (Don't want to give out any more spoilers.) The effects of 
 the movie scene blew me away. It actually seemed like a real movie played with real actors.
  
  ~Graphics~
  Some bodies looked rectangular and not that well done, but I believe that I had 
 my graphics on low quality. The blood was a bit too much. I'm not very sure if people can have 
 that much blood ooze out of themselves so quickly. I really wanted to see detailed shades of the 
 color. It seemed like I only saw the color dark red .
  
  NOTE~
  If you want to play Quake Wars, I strongly recommend that you get this game to know the story of 
 the Strogg and GDF. You will understand QW much better if you know why these two enemies are fighting. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: koneko1991
Rating: 5.5
Date: Aug 23, 2007 11:53 pm PT
Review:  Well Quake4 is the type a game i wouldn't play again cause its too damn easy, even on hardest difficulty.
 
  Good and bad things about the game:
  
  #1. It looks good.
  #2. It has great variety of weapons.
  #3. Not so much different enemies.
  #4. Story kind a 
 ,not working.
  #5. And did i mentioned it was easy!!
  
  Ok Quake 4 is a good game, but somehow it just feels kind a over famed.
  I mean even the final 
 boss was too easy.
  
  If you do not agree, than you just don't know how to play games.
  On every difficulty it feels the same. And if i think about it, it's to short too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zaasz
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 24, 2007 12:59 pm PT
Review:  Throughout the course of video game history, game developers have created immersive worlds filled 
 to the brim with unbelievable wonders. Enter Id software. Responsible for creating some of the 
 most frightening images of all time, Id prefers to pulverize gamers with pure adrenaline and fear. 
 Backed by the extreme popularity of their Doom and Quake games, Id is the reason why your child 
 screams at night. Nonetheless, an addition to the legendary Quake series is finally here. Though 
 it may not be the revolutionary experience many desired, Quake 4 is still a solid addition to 
 a stalwart franchise.
  
  Quake 4 is a first-person-shooter that kicks its story off after the events in its predecessor, 
 Quake II.. You are Matthew Kane, a soldier thrown into the fray to help quell the Strogg threat. 
 The Strogg are an alien-mechanoid species that use human parts to bolster their numbers. A large 
 strike force is dispatched to a Strogg planet with the orders to eliminate the Nexus, an alien 
 device believed to link each and every Strogg mind into one entity. The Nexus allows instantaneous 
 transfer of information to all Strogg units, which grant them the ability to move as a swift, unified 
 wave of death. The destruction of the Nexus would not only mean a devastating loss for the Strogg, 
 but throw them into complete disarray across the universe.
  
  Generic as it may sound, Quake 4 delivers a grisly and decrepit view of the war with the Strogg. 
 Quake has always been about in your face sci-fi action and it doesnt change course here. But 
 dont be fooled, Id has put in some interesting twists to the storyline, giving an old formula 
 some new taste. Lasting around 10 hours, the single-player campaign goes by relatively fast. Though 
 adrenaline-fueled and action-packed, once youve completed it, besides amping up the difficulty, 
 theres not much to warrant another play through.
  
  Right from the get-go Quake 4 plunges you into a struggle for existence. The shattering of bullets 
 on alien flesh, the explosions of aircraft plowing into the earth, frantic radio chatter from your 
 squad mates; the sound is top-notch. And to complement that, the arsenal Quake veterans have 
 come to know and love is present; hyper-blaster, railgun, rockets, its all here. They all look 
 stunning, sound excellent, and just feel good to shoot.
  
  Visually, Quake 4 looks great. Every model, friend, foe, and environment is rendered with unmistakable 
 detail. Shadows stretch across the landscape and are perfectly portrayed by objects in the way 
 of sunlight and such. The explosions and effects from your weapons are also done very well. However, 
 use of low-resolution backgrounds in the outdoor levels ruins the war-torn vibe. Not only does 
 it make the horizon look ugly compared to what youre getting everywhere else, but it takes away 
 from the feeling of the game. As absorbed as you may be, seeing smoke billow off of what looks 
 like a distorted chimney boots you back to reality in a less than friendly way.
  
  The A. I. in Quake 4 is consistent. They arent dead eyes, they dont run into walls, and they 
 dont miss you at point blank range. Youll even see some Strogg take cover, yell to one another, 
 and sometimes theyll even charge you. As for your allies, they show no practical faults. They 
 shoot on site, communicate with other squad members, and move fluidly. So dont be astonished when 
 you see a medic take out a couple strogg you didnt see. Its not cutting edge, but for a game 
 like Quake 4, the A. I. does its job.
  
  While the story and gameplay in general are solid, the problem with Quake 4 comes with frame rate 
 issues. Unlike its PC counterpart, the Xbox 360 version contains noticeable slowdown and hiccups 
 throughout the game. Its more noticeable on outdoor levels and places where theres a lot going 
 on. Regardless, its extremely frustrating to have the game slow down and even in some cases, lock-up 
 when youre in the middle of a firefight. It dampens the experience tenfold, making it a chore 
 to enjoy the overall game.
  
  When the single-player comes to a close, the multiplayer aspect of the game picks up. Quake is 
 renowned around the world for its multiplayer prowess, but fails to deliver here. Not only does 
 it feel exactly like Quake III Arena online, it sports less maps than its predecessor and those 
 maps are almost all remakes of the Quake III Arena maps. The graphical update is a nice feature 
 and it spices up the arenas Quake veterans all know. But it still cant hide the fact that the 
 online experience feels like youve played it before. Nevertheless, adding so little content to 
 a game as popular online as Quake is a waste of pure potential.
  
  Quake 4 isnt a revolution. While it may still preoccupy longtime fans of the series, the online 
 experience isnt as enticing this time around, but theres still an immersive single-player campaign 
 filled with eye-popping visuals and brain-crunching sounds to complete. Shooter fan or not, Quake 
 4 feeds you constant action, keeping you moving from room to room with pure satisfaction slapped 
 across your face. It may not be the innovative shooter many were looking for, but the solid campaign 
 proves more than enough that Quake still has a lot going for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spiredcrescent
Rating: 7.9
Date: Aug 14, 2007 9:25 pm PT
Review:  Quake is one of those great games, you love to see evolve. This seems to have taken its look from 
 another great shooter doon 3. Although it takes it look from doom, the gameplay is much faster 
 passed. Quakes graphics feel a little dated considering they are using the same engine as doom 
 3. The gameplay is a lot better than past quake, by giving us a campaign full of turrents, and 
 mechs letting us do just more than run &amp; gun. The sound focusess on gunplay more than anything, 
 leaving you to listen for gunfire instead of the growls and steps you would hear in doom 3. Multiplayer 
 has basic matchs that we've seen in past quake entries, but this is a solid start for the 360 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RobertBowen
Rating: 8.4
Date: Aug 13, 2007 5:29 am PT
Review:  The game ran flawlessly on my system with everything maxed out, with no noticeable slowdowns even 
 with many enemies on screen.
  
  When you think about the Quake series of games, you know that they are aiming to deliver one thing 
  non stop run-and-gun action. Quake IV is no different in that regard because it is definitely 
 not trying to redefine the genre, and very much stems from the old school of shooter that has 
 become a trademark of Id software.
  
  However, due to Raven softwares involvement no doubt, this game actually feels more compelling 
 and engaging than previous Quake outings. Because it is an actual sequel to Quake II, you enter 
 the game with preconceptions and expectations, yet I came away pleasantly surprised.
  
  Quake IV is a solid shooter that delivers the non stop action you would expect, yet there are some 
 great set pieces, and the whole game has far more flesh on the bones than its predecessors. For 
 one thing, while you may go solo through some sections, you also fight battles as part of a squad, 
 and because the same characters keep popping up throughout the game, you start to feel an affinity 
 toward them.
  
  The AI is good, but not of the same calibre as some other shooters (like Far Cry and FEAR) . The 
 enemy tactics, in particular, are mostly of the rush variety, yet there are some that choose 
 to hide behind and shoot from cover, and others will dodge and weave when fired upon which does 
 make encounters a bit more engaging.
  
  The weapons all have great models and sounds, and they all deliver the kind of punch you would 
 expect. There is also a nice variety of hardware, and great reloading animations. I actually preferred 
 the way the BFG worked in the game over the room-clearing mega-blast of its predecessors.
  
  Enemies are quite varied in this game, from the more agile human-looking Strogg, to some truly 
 huge opponents. For the most part, the character design was very well done, and with often mixed 
 encounters the combat didnt grow stale.
  
  The environments, while linear and very much of the tech variety, seemed more interesting to 
 me than the environments in FEAR in terms of aesthetic design. The backdrops (mountains in the 
 distance etc.) again simply looked too much like paintings and felt a bit fake, but for the most 
 part there was a bit more variety in the locations and action outdoors that offset the usual corridor 
 crawls.
  
  When it comes to the hover tank and mech walker sections, well I cant say I enjoyed them much. 
 They simply felt like arcade blaster rides to me, and a bit out of place in the context of the 
 rest of the game. Perhaps if there had been actual objectives to complete in those sections they 
 would have been more enjoyable. They certainly pale considerably in comparison to the airboat and 
 buggy rides in Half-Life 2.
  
  I may not be a fan of the Doom 3 tech overall (I found Doom 3 to be a bit tedious) , but here it 
 feels like it has been pushed much further, with more enemies on screen and some large outdoor 
 areas. Character animation (and lip synching) was very well done throughout. Pickups largely made 
 sense (spilling from crates that could have been dragged there by soldiers or Strogg) , and thankfully 
 there were no arcade style power-ups such as Quad damage, at least none that I could find.
  
  One of the others things I liked was having medics come up and heal you, and techs come up 
 to restore armour or upgrade weapons. It was all in context and made sense.
  
  When it comes to the crunch, Quake IV is a solid and enjoyable shooter, with an objective-based 
 format where you feel like you are really fighting a war against a horrible technological enemy. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mattx13
Rating: 6.6
Date: Aug 7, 2007 9:09 pm PT
Review:  Well, It was definately beautiful... great graphics, great textures, meshes (on ultra settings) ... 
 but apart from that, it was dreadfully dull... The story was a very cookie-cutter take on Alien 
 vs. Man, and the AI just didnt cut it... IF you want a similar game thats actualy worth playing, 
 go for PREY.
  
  
  
  
  
  La La La La La La La La La La La LaLa La La La La LaLa La La La La LaLa La La La La LaLa La La 
 La La LaLa La La La La LaLa La La La La LaLa La La La La LaLa La La La La LaLa La La La La LaLa 
 La La La La LaLa La La La La LaLa La La La La LaLa La La La La LaLa La La La La LaLa La La La La 
 La 
::::::

::::::
UserName: subz3ro999
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 5, 2007 12:49 am PT
Review:  WOW!!! I was amazed at such great graphics!!! Considering it was launched like 2 years ago or something??? 
 But anyway, this game will keep you on your toes and will keep you entertained for hours on end!!! 
 As I said, top-class graphics making everything you see and do so realistic!!! Great sound too! 
 Especially if you have surround sound speakers:) I just love the superb story line, this game is 
 a true masterpiece in many ways!!! I would like to say that Id software, Raven, and Activision 
 did a Supreme job on making this terrific game that I think that people will enjoy playing for 
 days on end!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ebi_Furya
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 31, 2007 11:01 am PT
Review:  Quake II has been one of my favorite shooters for a long time. I still, on occasion, play it for 
 kicks and when I heard that Quake 4 was its sequel, I was very happy. Quake 4 is simple by the 
 standards of todays shooter games, but its that simplicity that makes Quake 4 a strong game.
 
  
  * Story
  In Quake II, you destroy the Strogg leader, Makron. Quake 4 picks up after that point where youre 
 being deployed back to their home world to finish the fight and destroy the remaining Strogg. You 
 play as Matthew Kane throughout your exploration (and transformation midway through) of the Strogg 
 planet. Your goal is to destroy the Nexus, a network that connects the Strogg to each other (if 
 you know StarTrek, its similar to the Borg) .
  
  * Gameplay
  The gameplay is very similar to the original game. Quake 4 does add some vehicle levels, although 
 they feel oddly out of place. One thing that makes some areas easier is that you will occasionally 
 have a squad of other marines there with you to assist. You will also find Medics to heal and Technicians 
 to repair your armor.
  
  Similar to Doom 3, you will need a flashlight for many areas. However, there is a light on the 
 top of most of the weapons in the game which is great. You have your classic weapons such as the 
 Blaster, Machine Gun and Shot Gun as well as the new Dark Matter Gun (aka the BFG) . Ammo is plentiful 
 for the most part, but there are a few areas where it is sparse.
  
  * Graphics
  Quake 4 is built on top of the Doom 3 engine. As such, the graphics are very rich and detailed 
 with great frame rates. The darkness is there in places (where the light is required) , but it isnt 
 overly used like it seemed to be in Doom 3. It adds surprise to the game when you walk into a room 
 and the lights go out. :)
  
  * Sound
  The sound for Quake 4 is good when it comes to the sound effects. A lot of the classic Quake 
 sounds are there, albeit a little refined. Its the musical score that I didnt care for. I thought 
 the music from Quake II was much better and I wished they would have kept the same tone / style. 
 On the flip side, when youre scrambling to kill or be killed, you dont even notice the music 
 that well. The voice acting was pretty good. I felt like the voices fit the characters in the game.
 
  
  * Overall
  Quake 4 provides several hours of good playing. The game is quite linear and wont take that long 
 to complete, but the charm is in the simplicity. If you enjoyed Quake and Quake II, you should 
 enjoy Quake 4 as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctorj11111
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 30, 2007 7:31 am PT
Review:  For $20 now, this game is definitly worth playing. The graphics are superb. They have added vehicles 
 and include some very cool weapons. There is fast pace action. If you like first person shooter 
 games like Doom 3 and Prey, then you will like this game. The game also offers a good multiplayer, 
 a lot like Unreal Tournament, but not quite as good. What I didn't like about the game was that 
 it seemed short. That may be because all the levels look almost the same. There just wasn't much 
 variety in the environments. It is like one long level. The storyline was just not very captivating 
 like Half-Life 2. Anyways, if you are just looking for a fun first person shooter with fast pace 
 and cool graphics then this is your game. And for only $20 you can't go wrong. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hot_Potato
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 21, 2007 7:07 pm PT
Review:  Quake 4 has pretty basic shooter gameplay and a cliche science fiction story. You play as Matthew 
 Kane, a marine battling the Strogg army, a group of creatures trying to destroy Earth. The only 
 difference is the marines are attacking the Strogg home world.
  
  The game has all the basic FPS weapons, including pistols, shotguns, rocket launchers, and assault 
 rifles, with some newer, more innovative guns added in. Most of the game is indoors in dark areas, 
 but you can use your flashlight on your assault rifle instead of swapping between the two like 
 Doom 3. The enemies you face can vary from infantry to giant gorilla-like Strogg who charge at 
 you. You have to battle through tons of Strogg to get to your objective, which usually consists 
 of activating something or turning something off. Needless to say it's fun sniping Strogg with 
 the assault rifles built in zoom. The game also has a few bosses, all of which are hulking, ugly, 
 deformed Strogg.
  
  The graphics in the game are pretty good, but nothing great. The game is mostly indoors and the 
 textures aren't very high resolutions. The game does feature great, detailed character models.
 
  
  The sound isn't amazing in the game, but the sound of single-shotting the zoomed assault rifle 
 into an enemy is pretty cool. The game also sounds cool when and enemy is blown to pieces by and 
 explosion and flesh chunks land all around.
  
  The game has a very low value. The single player will last most people around 10 or less hours 
 on normal difficulty. The multiplayer is nothing special either. It's pretty much Quake 3 Arena 
 but with slight changes, and overall isn't worth playing. The game does have a nice single player 
 which should be worth it for a fan of the series or someone looking for a decent shooter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: McAleece
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jun 20, 2007 11:46 am PT
Review:  Quite Frankly This Game Would Get 9.5 Hands Down If It Had Co-op. But It Dosn't. To Bad. Their 
 Is Not To Much To Talk About Rather Then Say, Its A Beautiful FPS With An Excellent Story Line. 
 Its Got A Little Bit Of Everything. Worth Playing.
  If You Have Never Played Doom 3 Then This Should Be Played.
  Doom 3 Is An Engine &amp; A Game. 
 The Quake 4 Game Runs Off Of the Doom 3 Engine. If You Have The Ability To Run It In Full Graphic 
 Mode ($1500 - $2000 Computer) Then It Must Be Played.
  
  Game Companies Need To Start Designing Co-op games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FaustInDeath
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 19, 2007 6:01 am PT
Review:  Quake 4 is one of those that continues very well the saga of old games. Although I think it's not 
 recommended for people under 15 years old you still have a lot of fun. It has the usual FPS game-play 
 putting more of an accent on very spectacular graphics storyline.
  I have to admit at first I was a little puzzled of the speed of the character but as the story 
 evolved it reminded me of the last quake games: INTENSE AND FAST COMBAT ACTION.
  The bad part is that it has kind of a straight line and it wasn't the puzzle kind of game like 
 quake 2. Also the fear factor wasn't that high although I saw that ID games tried to insert it in 
 the game.
  All in all a great game to play which has a nice feel to it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Minglis
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jun 11, 2007 11:27 pm PT
Review:  Quake is back and has some of the best graphics to date, however the gameplay is still the same 
 and hasnt aged so well. The story continues where Quake 2 left off and the leader of the Strogg 
 has been killed by a lone warrior (played by you in quake 2) , now you must go in with your squad 
 and finish off the rest of them to finish the war. Ofcourse things dont go to plan though and your 
 ship crash lands leaving you and your squad, the Rhino squad to recover and then kill the Strogg. 
 Thats where the game begins and the single player modes' story isnt all that great however it is 
 good enough to keep you interested through the entirety of the game, which isnt all that long sadly.
 
  
  This would be okay but the game really is quite a simplistic shooter, the gameplay mechanics havent 
 changed all that much since quake 2 which was fine back then but by todays standards when in competetion 
 with shooters like f. e. a. r and half life 2 it just doesnt cut it and it shows. There is some fighting 
 done alongside your team mates and some vehicular action too but other than that it isnt all that 
 different. Despite all this the single player game is still action packed, the AI is reasonable 
 and it is quite enjoyable but it really does just leave you wanting more. The campaign also may 
 only last about 8 hours before you complete it which is also pretty frustrating.
  
  The multiplayer is also the same story, it plays exactly like quake 3 arena this time only with 
 better graphics and again by today's standards it just isnt enough. Especially with the likes of 
 Unreal Tournament 2004 and Battlefield 2 that all multiplayer fps action is going to be compared 
 to.
  
  What it lacks in its gameplay though Quake 4 definitely makes up for when it comes to its graphics, 
 they are truly amazing. From the textures to the lighting it is just flawless and it really does 
 add alot to the atmosphere much like Doom 3, even with the settings lowered it still looks great 
 too so no matter what system you have you are going to be able to enjoy some of the best graphics 
 to date.
  
  Despite its shortcomings Quake 4 is an enjoyable game and it will keep you occupied for a short 
 duration of time, however there are far better ways to spend your money when it comes to first 
 person shooters. Hopefully they get it right for the next Quake. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: delta_116326
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 18, 2007 9:03 pm PT
Review:  Quake 4 re-kindled the first-person shooter genre. design with state of the art graphics, revolutionary 
 gameplay and dazzaling storyline. Quake 4 continues were qauke 2 left off. The war with the Strogg 
 is at its climax. the earth forces have invaded stroggus and pushed to very leaders of the strogg 
 army. after several missions in the heart of stroggus, you are captured and partially transformed 
 into a strogg soldier, but with this new body gives you the power to destroy and kill strogg with 
 their very own technology. you are given the chance to destroy the heart of stroggus and take the 
 humans to victory. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grootelaar
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 3, 2007 12:56 pm PT
Review:  I like this game because.
  1. You have ass ome weapons.
  2. The Strog are back.
  3. The Graphics are ass ome.
  4. You get turned in to one of them
  5. It's really fun
  6. 
 You got tanks and walkers.
  7. You got friends in campaign
  Now the bad things about this game.
  1. You ken hear the enemy's coming.
  2. To short levels.
 
  3. No chainsaw.
  4. You ken get only one time in a tank and a walker.
  Ok here is the beginning of the game you land on the Strog's planet.
  It's short i know but i 
 kent describe what you do next. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sytzepunk
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 2, 2007 5:49 am PT
Review:  Quake 4 is a sci-fi military shooter, picking up the story where the previous game left us off, 
 you get in a plot-twist that makes the game more fun then it already is!
  
  Quake 4 is what you can call a mixture between the better half of the Single player from Doom 3, 
 and giving it a lesser Unreal Tournament multiplayer.
  
  Gameplay/story/AI:
  As you advance in the story, you are captured by Stroggs and being re-designed into one of them 
 to fight you're allies, but during the progress of the re-design you're buddies free you, you are 
 still the bad-ass military shooter but with Stroggs firepower, the new Strogg power doesn't chance 
 gameplay alot tho, you are given alot of innovative Strogg weapons, able to understand Strogg language, 
 and able to pass thru Strogg-lasers, making the game easier.
  
  The game has a wide variety of different Strogg enemies, from normal worker Stroggs from cyborg 
 Stroggs, the AI is predictable near the end of the game tho, if you can recognize the Strogg you're 
 fighing you'll mostly know what they'll do next.
  
  The game also has Doom 3-like scripted events, some of the levels in game vary from wide-openworlds 
 filled with scripted-events like alien spaceships crashing around you're mech, or indoors where 
 claustraphobic/Doom 3 events happen, like a Strogg bursting out a wall.
  
  Graphics/Sound:
  Top notch, heres the beauty of the Doom 3 graphics engine, this is why Quake 
 4 is better then Doom 3: No constant dark areas. Although the game has its fair part of creepy-crawler 
 levels, the game has a fair amount of outdoor levels that are bright but still brings us a atmosphere 
 of terror.
  
  Textures look great, vehicles explode in huge fireballs of burning metal, character designs look 
 similar to Doom 3 character designs, and to go with the character designs, the voice acting is 
 really good, it gives us clever, interresting and helpful dialogue.
  
  Multiplayer:
  Most of the Multiplayer-levels of Quake 4 are either from Quake 3 or UT games, so if you want a 
 good multiplayer similar to Quake 4, I'd say get UT04.
  
  The multiplayer has NO vehicles, which is a shame and understandable, because the vehicles do serious 
 damage.
  
  Though, Quake multiplayer is fast-paced and feels like UT, the only problem is that the Quake 4 
 multiplayer doesn't bring a big punch to it like other Sci-fi shooters did.
  
  Is it a good Sci-fi FPS:
  Great single player, somewhat lacking multiplayer, its better then 
 Doom 3 in single player and multiplayer, but in multiplayer it doesn't beat UT.
  
  If you are a fan of games like Doom 3, UT or the other Quake games, this is a good purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talon124
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 1, 2007 2:01 pm PT
Review:  Quake 4 is one of those games that scare you AND gives you intense fire fights. Quake 4 is a combination 
 of F. E. A. R (effects aren't as good though) and Doom. So imagine Silent Hill or something but everyone 
 in it has cool assault rifles and shotguns. If you are looking for a horror game but instead of 
 running away from monsters or killing them with a small variety of weapons you blast them into 
 bits and you have a fightning chance then look no furthur. You are part of an elite squad and you 
 will be attacked by disgusting creatures. Some parts of the game even make you hold back a bit, 
 not wanting to turn the next corner of the dark corridor. Even though it feels like Doom and some 
 parts basically are Doom, it isn't as scary as Doom. Doom the monsters were literally things from 
 your nightmares that look like Demons from Hell. Quake??? extremly fast and intelligent zombies 
 encased in armor? Well thats what they remind me of, zombies. It is because the producers gave 
 the Strogg a kinda human look, which lowers the fear factor, but that would make sense since they 
 are built using human body parts. The most memoriable bit of Quake 4 and maybe the most bloodiest 
 and disturbing bit in any game released (yes, this bit of Quake matches Doom easily) is when you 
 are Stroggfied. That is all I am saying. Buy this game now and you'll see what Stroggfied means. 
 Pitty, not much multiplayer but the Single Player is amazing and has great replay value just so 
 you can blast away more Strogg 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Homes225
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 7, 2007 2:44 pm PT
Review:  With so many FPS games out today Raven Software knew they had to bring their best cards to the 
 table for Quake 4. They did just that for the sequel to Quake 2 and a more in-depth single player 
 mode.
  
  The main thing I noticed while play Quake 4 was how much it looked like Doom 3. This is mainly 
 because Raven used the Unreal/Doom Engine. The characters faces and movements look identical but 
 that isn't too say that it looks very detailed and polished. The audio is also very crisp and sounds 
 like Doom 3 but Strogged with gurgles and moans echoing from the halls of the Outer Space compounds.
 
  
  With the creepy audio and clean graphics, Quake 4 really creates a nice atmosphere, something I 
 haven't seen the likes of in a shooter since STALKER. This is a nice touch and adds to the excitement 
 of firefights in open and closed pathways. The Story of Quake 4 picks up from Q2 with the battle 
 against Humans and Strogg still raging and it is very prevalent with chaos everywhere and gore 
 to the max. You will still be doing press this and help this squad objectives but it isn't as linear 
 as other games.
  
  When you are with a squad, which is about an hour or two of the ten hour game, you have a large 
 advantage. If you are lower than 50% health a medic will health you fully and same goes for a tech 
 who will regenerate your armor. Later in the game after you are stroggified you get even more health 
 and armor. You can also get upgrades for your large arsenal of weapons. It may range from an extended 
 clip or a scope feature. Nonetheless the weapons in Q4 are truly unique, especially the black hole 
 gun, and will keep you entertained as you take down the variety of enemy Strogg.
  
  After a good three or four bosses and beating the game I felt very pleased with Quake 4 and how 
 it played. If you are looking to get a great looking and fast paced shooter, I recommend Quake 
 4. I can now only hope that Enemy Territory: Quake Wars is even better!
  
  Pros+ Detailed Graphics, Atmosphere, Unique Weapons, Intense Gameplay
  
  Cons- Sticks to the 
 basics too much, doesn't surpass today's shooters, only builds on the past series' greatness 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Half-Doom
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 5, 2007 5:41 pm PT
Review:  Truley This Game Is one of the Best FPS Games I have played. This games Single Player Mode is AWESOME 
 and the Story is original and creative, AND they left room for a Quake 5!!! The Multiplayer Mode 
 is not nearly as good as the Single Player thought and, with the Great Story id came up with its 
 pretty uninspired. Although the Multiplayer is Totally Uninspired its a GREAT game even if you 
 where not a fan of Quake 1, 2, or 3 the game is a Great way to get into the FPS genre, This game 
 truley is a great game to add to any gamers Collection. So if you like Aliens that look like something 
 out of The Terminator and other movies like that Quake 4 is a Great game, and ultimately a Milestone 
 in FPS games everywhere.
  
  Well this is Half_Doom signing off.
  Goodbye! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DiabeticDood
Rating: 8.1
Date: Apr 26, 2007 5:28 pm PT
Review:  QIV is a great game with a good story and even better multiplayer. With big maps on multiplayer 
 so lots of people can play and a great story along with it theres lots to do. With great updated 
 graphics and even better sounds theres really no reasons to hate this game. You may need to update 
 a few things on your computer just to play this game because it happens to be a very demanding 
 game. With a lot of jumpy out parts like Doom 3 I find myself being torn to which one I like better. 
 Im gonna go with like QIV on action because in Doom 3 it took awhile before you actually started 
 shooting your guns. Within the first five minutes youve should have killed at least ten things 
 already. So you jump into the action quickly. I like Doom 3s scare factor better. I found myself 
 jumping at QIV a lot less then I did with Doom 3. So Doom 3 wins there. I found the gameplay a 
 little repetitive after awhile. A lot of missions where you have to go somewhere. Get someone or 
 help them, then run back and do something, and so on. But youll probably have too much fun to 
 notice it. I noticed it on my second time through. I believe this game is about 30 dollars now 
 which is kind of pricey for this game. While you get a lot I just found its not quite worth 30. 
 I would wait till 20 or buy it used. While this is a fantastic game I dont think its gonna keep 
 you coming back for more. Multiplayer will get dull after awhile youve beaten the game twice. 
 But for the first time through its a great Quake game. I cant wait for the next Quake! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: easyvoice
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 25, 2007 12:54 pm PT
Review:  Quake 4 is my first game in the franchise, knowing that and the fact that it is the least favorable 
 of the four games among the quake series fans; I deeply regret not playing the previous three games 
 cause I enjoyed this sci-fi shooter like no other. It is innovative and original. I can only imagine 
 the impact the game had on the pc gamers when it arrived back in the days, and I can also now rationalize 
 all the hype, the wait, the gossip and the expectation that quake 4 had on people prior its release 
 date. Quake franchise has its own huge fan base; it is in my opinion very understandable. I know 
 some guys who played the game over and over, and they still play it until now.
  
  Technically, the game has very refreshing colors, the outdoor scenes are lit beautifully, while 
 the indoor has a very shadowy and creepy atmosphere, I don't always seem to know where the Stroggs 
 will pop out from. The game control is fairly easy and good. Quake 4 has a good of variety of enemies 
 of different strength, power and technique which make the game the more challenging. The main character 
 Matthew Kane has access to whole range of different guns ( Blaster, Machinegun, Shotgun, Nailgun, 
 Grenade Launcher, Railgun, Rocket Launcher, Lightning Gun, Hyperblaster , Dark Matter Gun) . The 
 game texture is fantastic, and the whole environment is just superb. The audio and musical score 
 is more than satisfying, it communicate with game action nicely. Storyline wise, I have to say 
 that I couldn't find anything original or new in quake 4, it is good enough but it could have been 
 better; but then again I guess it is an installment in a franchise.
  
  I think Quake 4 is one of those games that will stay around for a little longer; it's addictive, 
 refreshing and simply irresistible. I highly recommend this game for enthusiasts and entry game 
 players alike. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RazorBlankGiga
Rating: 7.7
Date: Apr 18, 2007 6:49 pm PT
Review:  I gave this game a 9.1 rating it's got a realy good single player mode but the multi player is 
 pretty lame... If I wanted to play a Quake 3 stile shooter I would play Quake 3. I have gone through 
 it once on hard mode I have been working with it on verry hard. (I can't remember the ranking system 
 for hard or verry hard so don't sit there and make fun of me.)
  
  It has a fairly long single player mode to it, fairly tatical, and lots of fun. The only problem 
 as I've said before is that it has Doom 3/ Quake 3 stile multi player, they could have made that 
 alot better if they would have worked more on it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nodham
Rating: 7.8
Date: Apr 15, 2007 2:58 pm PT
Review:  Remember all the chaos you inflicted on the Strogg in Quake 2? Yeah, well that was just a mini-battle. 
 Quake 4 is the REAL one. So you're basically told at the start of Quake 4, making you wonder what 
 oh no, there are more Strogg in this box over here! storyline Quake 5 will come up with. Of course, 
 storyline has never been a strong point in the Quake series, serving more as an excuse for many 
 levels of mayhem and frenetic action. so it was with this desire for basic, brainless thrills that 
 I approached Quake 4. While I can't say it didn't deliver, in a way there's still a lingering feeling 
 of a missed opportunity. If anything, Quake 4 starts off as if you were playing Quake 2, only this 
 time with your whole squad not dead. While you run into enemies often, you'll run into squadmates 
 just as often. It's this little difference that sets the game apart from previous entries in the 
 series, however, and makes it feel a little more like a real war instead of just the one guy shutting 
 down almost everything and dealing decisive blows against the Strogg. Mind you, it IS always you 
 going down some ladder to flip a switch somewhere, make no mistake, but at least it feels like 
 more of a combined effort this time around. Since Quake 4 is based on the Doom 3 engine, it must 
 be said all the basics of a good FPS are there. The graphics are great, the action is hectic, and 
 the weapons and enemies varied enough (although having cyborg warriors as enemies sort of limits 
 the differences between them) . There's even some refreshing vehicle combat and rail-shooting sequences 
 thrown in for good measure. There are really no complaints against the technological aspect of 
 Quake 4. Where it feels average, though, is in the storyline. This being a war, there really isn't 
 much else except getting to areas, killing everything on the way, doing things in those areas (pushing 
 a button) and getting back, killing everything on the way. There is an interesting twist a third 
 of the way through as your character is part-stroggified, but it doesn't change much except boost 
 your top energy a bit and switch onscreen Es to 3s. What's interesting is how the soldiers on your 
 mothership react differently, though, full of mistrust and, in the case of a few enthralled geeks, 
 questions about processor speed and memory. It's these little touches that show you how the game 
 could have been if more ideas had been implemented in the squad/character areas. Sure, there are 
 some important characters in the game that are voiced well, but they just pop in and out of the 
 action anyway. By far the majority of the time is spent running off somewhere killing things. If 
 anything, Quake 4 feels like a mid-90s FPS updated with today's technology. There are also some 
 odd bits of dialogue from your scientists , prompting the speculation that the dialogue was written 
 by game designers (blasphemy!) . E. g. it appears the Strogg [scientists] have the technology to 
 break the Strogg down into pure enzymes. Why? To catalyze what? Overall the singleplayer campaign 
 has some memorable moments, usually those that would be done as cinematics except for the fact 
 that they're viewed first-person. Crashing through a base in your out-of control landing pod is 
 quite thrilling, and the whole progress of stroggification is morbidly captivating. It might not 
 be pleasant, but it does stay in one's memory. To be a timeless game, however, it would have needed 
 more of these types of sequences. Boss battles are great too, but the majority of the game doesn't 
 linger. In the end it really depends on your familiarity with the Quake franchise. Like an average 
 sequel to a movie series you like, the main thing Quake 4 has going for it is to see other areas 
 of the Quake universe, such as the Strogg creation labs (and where the failed specimens go) . If, 
 however, you want an fps tour-de-force, you'll have to look elsewhere. Quake 4 delivers a good 
 experience in the Quake universe, but it's nothing revolutionary. If you need a quick-fix no-brainer 
 FPS, Quake 4 will fit the bill nicely, as it's got all the action you need and doesn't wear out 
 its welcome with an overdrawn campaign. Unfortunately, there's just that bit of excellence missing 
 that would really lift it above similar games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ish_gibbor
Rating: 6.2
Date: Apr 14, 2007 8:24 pm PT
Review:  It will not take you long to beat this game, and it is not very hard. It kept my interested long 
 enough to beat it. It does change things up enough to be enjoyable. It is missing things though, 
 like a melee attack? For goodness sakes man. Graphics - Not to bad. Think PC half life 2, or farcry. 
 Sound - pretty good
  
  Phyiscs, - umm
  
  Gameplay - Fun enough to rent if you beat the must play games
  
  value - Rent it first for 
 sure, and only after you beat the good games
  
  Over all it was a pretty cool experience. I get sick of corridors, but there was some outside fighting. 
 I like fighting indoors inside of modern buildings that do not look the same around every corner. 
 However it is not as bad as doom 3 in this regard. There are a lot of wide open rooms with pretty 
 things to look at. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WoolieWool
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 11, 2007 9:21 pm PT
Review:  Doom 3 was released in 2004 to great acclaim, but it also had serious flaws -- the constant, oppressive, 
 ridiculous darkness, the ill-conceived flashlight (one would think in 2145 they would make the 
 thing brighter or allow you to attach it to your guns) , and the repetitive monster closet gameplay 
 (turn a corner, a monster jumps out at you from a closet behind you) . Quake IV, the first third-party 
 Doom 3 engine title, breaks away from Doom 3's poorly judged survival horror gimmicks, turns up 
 the lights, turns up the action, and focuses on the head-crushing violence like God intended. Fans 
 of ultra-sophisticated shooters, especially tactical shooters (a genre I have a fair amount of 
 dislike for -- real war is about the opposite of fun, so why should a game simulate real war as exactly 
 as possible?) , should probably avoid Quake IV. Forget managing squads, clashing wits with devious 
 AI, or carefully aiming down iron sights, Quake IV is about running around gunning down aliens. 
 It's a bit more sophisticated than Serious Sam (you have to reload, for instance, and the enemies 
 know better than to shamble towards you in a straight line) , but it's pretty elementary, And at 
 this basic run and gun combat, Quake IV excels.
  
  You play the role of Matthew Kane, your typical FPS hero with no voice and no personality (the 
 better for you to insert your own voice and personality, of course. Skill at devising snappy one-liners 
 on the fly will be rewarded, at least if the missus isn't within earshot) . You're a member of Rhino 
 Squad, an elite group of, uh-huh, marines (Where is the army in a typical FPS game?) . You will 
 occasionally fight alongside your allies, who can take care of themselves (sometimes) . They have 
 decent pathfinding and aim, and the medics and technicians will replenish your health and armor, 
 respectively, giving you an incentive to keep them alive without resorting to ending the game if 
 an NPC dies (sometimes NPCs will have key roles in objectives, in which case the game will end 
 if said NPC dies. Fortunately this does not happen too often) . Your goal is to land on the alien 
 stronghold of Stroggos and shoot a lot of people. OK, it's a bit more complex than that, and has 
 a very gruesome shock twist, but really it boils down to go from point A to point B and kill everyone 
 who gets in your way .
  
  Being a Doom 3 engine title, Quake IV of course has excellent graphics, and it is a considerable 
 graphical advance over Doom 3. Textures are sharper, models are more detailed, areas are larger 
 and more open, and it's actually bright enough to see where you're going. This also means that 
 your grandmother's eMachines won't have a chance of running this game. Quake IV is demanding on 
 the CPU, memory, and graphics card, and some serious hardware is required, especially for ultra 
 detail. Although, if you're reading this, you probably have a fast computer anyway.
  
  The Strogg come in many varieties, from cannon fodder Strogg marines (not even the aliens have 
 an army...) to gigantic behemoths covered in guns. They put up a farily good fight, but they're 
 not particularly strong or clever. There are a lot more of them than there were monsters in Doom 
 3, and they're usually used in far less annoying ways. You get a variety of weapons to kill them 
 with, from the weak blaster with limitless ammo to the BFG, I mean Dark Matter Gun (whatever, it's 
 basically a BFG under a different name that shoots purple blobs instead of green) . My favorite 
 is the nailgun, which does exactly what the name implies -- shoots a stream of metal spikes. A modification 
 acquired later gives you a scope that you can look through. This also makes the nails track targets, 
 which greatly increases its already formidable potency. Unfortunately, the game's single player 
 campaign is relatively short, and can be beaten in 10 to 15 hours. This is too bad, because Quake 
 IV has some of the best classic-style FPS gameplay since its own prequel, 1997's Quake II. But 
 while it lasts, single player is loads of fun.
  
  The mutliplayer, on the other hand, is not very impressive. For the most part it's a graphical 
 refresh of 1999's Quake III Arena, the only primarily multiplayer game Id Software has put out. 
 Not being much of a fan of multiplayer gaming, I didn't play it for very long, and I was not impressed 
 by the omission of one of Quake III Arena's best features: the computer-controlled bot opponents. 
 Multiplayer lovers will be much better served by Unreal Tournament 2004 and the upcoming Unreal 
 Tournament III.
  
  All in all, Quake IV is a great, but far too short single-player experience coupled with an uninspired 
 multiplayer component. I dock some value points for the brevity of the campaign, and due to the 
 complexity of mapping for modern engines, we will likely never see an equivalent to any of the 
 massive full-game replacements that were made for Wolfenstein, Doom, Quake, and even Unreal. Alas, 
 it seems as if no one wants to make levels anymore, except for quixotic TC projects that will never 
 reach fruition.
  
  I would advise players for whom graphics aren't absolutely everything to spring for the deluxe 
 edition, which has as a bonus the entire full game of Quake II plus two full expansion packs, and 
 all three Quake II campaigns are a blast in their own right. However, I already had Quake II and 
 all its expansions, so it really didn't matter to me. But if you haven't played Quake II, pick 
 it up along with this game.
  
  What's Hot: Warmed-up Doom 3 engine looks better than ever, corrects many of Doom 3's flaws, allied 
 NPCs can defend themselves, satisfying if simplistic FPS gameplay.
  
  What's Not: Short single player campaign, token multiplayer lacks substance, taxing on slower machines, 
 contains nothing really novel or groundbreaking
  
  Also Try: Half-Life 2, Doom 3, Prey, Painkiller, F. E. A. R., Quake II 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bighawk911
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 11, 2007 12:54 pm PT
Review:  I had a problem with loading any levels past the defense perimeter level, I think my blockbuster 
 disc was scratched. This is about the point where you get a nailgun.
  
  Up to this point Quake 4 reminded me of an old school shooter with nice graphics. The strogg/aliens 
 are an exciting enemy and the storyline is militarily interesting. I like explosives, and the grenade 
 launcher was accurate. I think I like shooting grenades better than tossing them. (which isn't 
 an option in Quake4) . This game reminds me of Prey in a lot of ways, which I haven't reviewed yet. 
 It's an easy shooter with consequences if you save your game at the wrong time. I was playing on 
 the secod difficulty setting. For most gamers you would want to play on the next setting up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 09n
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 9, 2007 1:36 pm PT
Review:  Overview:
  Those who don't know the quake series will have little to fear when entering this game, it is easy 
 to get into and requires little prior knowledge of the series. The Strogg are a bizzare Alien race 
 who have recently been thrown off Earth by the military, an act which has now been backed up by 
 a counter offensive on the Strogg homeworld. You play the character Mathew Kane who is attached 
 to Rhino squad as part of the invasion force. Your mission, shoot anything that moves.
  Graphics:
  Do not listen to the people who say this game has 'average' graphics. This game has 
 near photorealistic humans and animation. The unified lighting and shading archetecture means that 
 their are large and realistic shadows generated in real time. With the mild revision of the code 
 since Doom 3, the game has managed to escape the 'plastic people' effect and has some of the best 
 looking graphics you will see. However this comes at a price, there are almost no outside enviroments, 
 the engine does not do them well. The meat and bones of the of the level is a system of corridors 
 with occasional large rooms with deep and ominous shadows. The few outside areas do however have 
 a new edition to the engine since doom 3 with the inclusion of mega-mapping (ultra-hd paintings) 
 which allows detailed backgrounds, letting you see outside windows, or have landing platforms. 
 There is even a breif period where you fly in a launch pod, letting you view the exterior of Planet 
 Stroggos which its vast structures and rocky scenery. The engine allows you to really connect with 
 the team mates you fight along side with the realistic faces and perfect lipsyncing of dialogue. 
 While this games graphics are now surpassed by the likes of Dawn of War's Unreal Engine 3 and the 
 up coming Crytech 2 engine, it is still a contender and runs easily on lower spec machines.
  Plot:
  First off, dont expect much of a plot. This is no adventure game like dreamfall, nor does 
 it have the sort of plot seen in Half-life. This game has a plot just detailed enough to get you 
 to finish the level, but not enough to make you really think.
  You are a Marine who have been sent to planet Stroggos to mop up the remaining forces of the Strogg 
 army whose leader has recently been assasinated by the unnamed arine who was the protagonist of 
 Quake 2. Your transport is hit however and you and your squad are badly damaged. Your first mission 
 is to set up a landing base for the USS Hannibal, which will then give you the missions allowing 
 you to destroy the strogg once and for all.
  The plot has its twists and turns but it can best be compared to that of a fast paced action/war 
 film. You only watch it because it has explosions at the end. That said the cutscene when the USS 
 Hannibal is attacked really gets your blood pumping and the resulting scenario really sets you 
 off to a good start.
  Gameplay:
  This gameplay is both very similar and very different to the game which it shares the engine with, 
 Doom 3. It is similar in the fact all the guns are simply point and shoot and it is largly a run 
 and gun affair. However it is very different to Doom 3 in the way the enemies react and the way 
 the game was put together.
  Unlike Doom 3, the enemies do not spawn randomly, and they show some inteligence. Smaller weaker 
 Strogg will hide behind pillers and shoot at you while larger brutes will recklassly charge at 
 you. Elite Strogg with try to to alter your vision with a strange energy field before stabbing 
 through the chest with the large metal claw on their arm. This means their are some tactics in 
 knowing how to deal with each enemy.
  Their is a vast, vast selection of weapons in Quake 4 and they are all very satisfying to shoot. 
 Weapons include the machine gun, hyperblaster, lightning gun, grenade launcher, rocket launcher, 
 railgun, dark matter gun, nail guns and shotgun to name a few. All behave differently and allow 
 for different tactics. Your standerd issue machine gun will be the gun you use most requently for 
 the first half of teh game, its built in torch is usefull for illuminating the scene and its ammo 
 bites into the early enemies with ease. However as you progress you get more weapons and far more 
 ammo and it becomes more a matter of personal preference. The Railgun is a one hit kill and upgraded 
 it can take out multiple enemies, it is perfect as a long range sniper, the shot gun has an almost 
 one hit kill at point blank but is hopless at mid-long range. I personally use my hyperblaster 
 most of the time as its rapid rate of fire, bouncing ammunition (after upgrade) and illuminating 
 balls of plasma make it very usefull at mid-long range and it easily fells all enemies. The Dark 
 matter gun was the most surprising of weapons. It fires a mini black hole which sucks enemies inside 
 and implodes them in a shower of blood. However it has very limited ammo and a long reload time.
 
  Joining you for roughly 1/2 the time are your squad mates. These are the most usefull things in 
 the game that I know of. Unlike team mates in most games these ones can actually shoot and although 
 you have to pull your weight you'll find the members of Rhino/viper/cobra/warthog squad very useful 
 as they help you mop up the Strogg. Medics can heal you, Techies can repair your armour or upgrade 
 your weapons. Not to mention having another guy behind you releaves some of teh tension and you 
 aren't constantly scared of whats behind the next door (unless you are low on health) .
  Multiplayer:
  Quake has some remarkable multiplayer according to other reviews, I dont know because 
 I cant get it to work. If you have a wireless connection I suggest you dont buy this for its multiplayer. 
 I get an average ping of 500 which is barely playable (like a frame a second) . Not enjoyable. Although 
 I did get to play breifly on a local server (ping only 200 yay!) I didn't get enough time to accuratly 
 review it.
  Bottom line:
  For the &pound;10 that Quake is selling for now I cannot think of a better waste of your time. 
 The campain is about 15 hours long on a medium difficulty and experianced FPS fans should have 
 no worries about the harder difficulties. I would recomend this to anyone who enjoys science fiction, 
 action films or just likes blowing stuff up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jepps2007
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 8, 2007 11:29 am PT
Review:  Gameplay 9/10 Highly addictive. you could easily play this game for hours upon hours on end, with 
 lots of plot twists and turns it leaves you guessing the story makes you get very involved, and 
 it does this well because for alot of the time, there arent cut scenes there is scripted events 
 that you see in first person. which adds to the realism generously.
  
  Graphics 10/10 ID and raven sofwares have struck gold again, this game is stunning. you can see 
 the short hairs that have been shaved from your fellow marines heads. beautiful, in a gaming way.
 
  
  Sound 9/10 Weapons and voice acting all sound superb, the strogg sound like strogg should and all 
 sounds superb.
  
  Value 8/10 Should take most gamers around 10-15 hours, and the main reasin to track through the 
 strogg homeplanet is well, because its so much fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adders11
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 28, 2008 7:53 am PT
Review:  I recently got Quake 4 as I am a bit of a fan of the series. I wasn't dissapointed at all either. 
 The single player is what I always play first and I was happy because you get to the action in 
 a matter of seconds, unlike Doom 3 which tried to build up an atmosphere before hand. I know there 
 are a lot games like Half-Life 2 that take a while to get into the action because it suits certain 
 games more, but Quake is Quake. In fact, it even starts a lot like Quake 2 (Quake 3 was a multiplayer 
 game, so that doesn't count) .
  I'm also impressed by Quake 4's graphics. I know it uses the Doom 3 engine, but there's a lot more 
 video options and the game looks great on my PC. I think it's got graphical texture enhancements 
 added to the Doom 3 engine. But, though the amazing lighting and texture details are all amazing, 
 what I do hate about the graphics are that they are OpenGL powered, so they give off that stupid 
 'shiny' feel everywhere you look. But they still deserve a 10/10!
  The sound effects and music also set the right atmospheric feels to the game. Quake 4 is not particually 
 aimed to be 'scary', though there some gruesome parts as you go through. There are vehicle sequences 
 too. This is new to the series, and they are very fun if a little basic. Quake 4 focuses on bigger 
 environments. Doom 3 had outdoor elements, but Quake 4 takes both outdoor shooting and indoor shooting 
 and mixes them well.
  There's loads of cool weapons too, including the old favourites like the nailgun, railgun, hyperblaster 
 and more. But is it just me or is the standard machine gun capable of taking out almost any enemy 
 with ease? This is probably what makes Quake 4's single player mode quite easy.
  The multiplayer is underrated- I know it's just like Quake 3 but it's bloody fun if you ask me. 
 There's a lot of different modes too, and some great maps.
  Quake 4 also kind of feels like your playing a remake of Quake 2... a lot of people will probably 
 say no to that but the game does feel a lot like Quake 2- I know it's the sequel there's just something 
 that feels the same.
  Overall, Quake 4 is one great addition to the series and one of the best next-generation shooters 
 available. It's better than Doom 3 and all fans should buy it.
  
  My PC specs:
  -AMD Sempron 3.4GHZ
  -nVidia GeForce 7300GT 256MB
  -1GB RAM 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sudantha8527
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 7, 2007 8:04 am PT
Review:  Second time around that I'm plying Quake 4, so thought I'll delete my old review and write a new 
 one. It's been an year since I last played the game the first time, and it's still exciting as 
 it was before.
  
  The game is made for action and a good rush of adrenaline, with the occasional scare a the boss 
 fights, something new that Quake 4 adds are the team based combats. You are part of the Rhino Squad, 
 so you'll play along side them and other squads in the battle against the Strogg. Adding the team 
 aspect does not mean it's like Rainbow Six or Ghost Recon, the team acts on their own and may aid 
 you in some battles, but the lonely shooter feeling is there for most of the game, where you'll 
 be alone. The plot take a twist halfway through the game, which keeps you wanting for more.
  
  The GOOD: Good graphics, yes the graphics are still good to date. the sound is good too, it 
 takes you deep in to the game play, the voice actings is pretty good and they have done a good 
 job in it. Good actions sequences when battling the enemy Strogg. Some cool weapons that you can 
 cause damage with, although keep in mind that the good old Machine gun is what will take you through 
 most of the game, there are weapon upgrades that are added on like the auto-tracking feature added 
 to the nail gun when in zoom mode. There is also the addition of vehicles and combat using them, 
 which is quite fun. There is the online play, if you liked Quake 3 then your are sure to enjoy 
 the multi player element of the game.
  
  The BAD: It feels like the usual FPS, nothing drastically innovative, and it feels a bit like Doom 
 3, may be because the same engine was used in Quake 4 as well as Prey. The game is quite easy, 
 on easy and normal. The story is what will keep you on to the game.
  
  Overall the game is quite straight forward if it's Strogg kill it, the game uses Linear game play, 
 which is similar to Doom 3 and Prey. The game is fun to play and has a well planned out story. 
 The best part in the game for me were the action sequences when battling the Strogg. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EdwardLau
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 5, 2007 2:49 am PT
Review:  The game starts off well. The intro cinematic sets the scene well, and the mission begins as you 
 stumble out of your downed dropship. The first thing oyou realize is that the graphics are a beauty, 
 especially when you set bump maps and specular on. These effects create a colourful yet dark environment. 
 Controls are very simple too. The character animations on the first marine you encounter is great 
 and their crouch-move animations are superb, and the voice acting is perfect but some quips from 
 radio and marines are repeated occasionally.
  Missions range from just finding your way through your Mobile Command Center (a large spaceship 
 with lovely scripted scenes and people just chatting away) to driving hovertanks which are a nice 
 addition, but controls are slightly strange. Quake 4 just doesn't seem to be 'finished'. The first 
 quarter of the game has great atmosphere to it, mostly because its the beginning of the attack 
 and marines are everywhere. It feels great when you clear a room alongside a squad of marines, 
 which look awesome when doing so. AI is great. To show unsripted behavior, I spawned two marines 
 in a room full of strogg. They prompty fired and moved to cover and began to clear the room. As 
 the strogg died off, they moved to the strogg positions, making sure everyone is dead.
  Then came the next three quarters of dull, repetitive gameplay. The enemies are the same... environment 
 is the same... same old same old. It becomes a one man show as your team mates dwindle in number. 
 I got so bored I could only play one mission every day before I decided to play Age of Empires 
 III, which I then continued to play for the rest of the day.
  Don't get me wrong, the game is wonderful, but it seems the level designers got bored and decided 
 to just add corridors filled with enemies in the later missions. In all, a decent game, but just 
 make sure you don't play too much from the start, otherwise you will die of boredom. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rottenjoe
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 1, 2007 4:47 am PT
Review:  This game is Lots of fun and the multiplayer is great. With some of the Quake 3 maps redone on 
 the New Graphics Engine that the quake creaters just bought. It makes your quake3 maps look like 
 poopy. but With the addition and recreation of all weapons this game just keeps gettting better. 
 The new physics engine, graphics engine, sound engine, all the engines really show in this game. 
 with now A story line this game adds a compelling story just like our other favorite game Doom 
 3. But i have to stay with Quake 4 on this. With all of the quake 3 players and non quake players 
 buying this game to play it. This game grows in size, and allows for people to make lots of mods 
 to improve the gameplay. If you love Action, adventure, 1st person shooters, and multiplayer, then 
 you will love this game so much, that you might say that you do This game is recommened by ME, 
 To everyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spectralmerc
Rating: 7.4
Date: Mar 23, 2007 5:29 pm PT
Review:  I am a rabid FPS fan. I have always been one ever since the Doom series showed its demonic head 
 on the gaming world. I enjoy the adrenaline of a monster rush, of saving the world and all the 
 involvement that implies playing through the eyes of another character. Id Software is the Hive 
 Mother of this genre. They created it and they set the standards for what a first person shooter 
 should be. However, those standards have changed heavily along he way. Lets see. (if you want to 
 read the review itself, skip the next paragraph. Is pure history)
  
  At first, it was the Ranger from Quake I. Its architecture and mapped polygons made 3d a must-have 
 from that time on. It had a splendid atmosphere, achieved through an excellent sound and music, 
 and the frantic pace of both multiplay and the campaign was the jump-start the new genre needed. 
 Then, the Marine from Quake 2 arrived. It exploited the new graphical technologies at its best, 
 bringing us graphical goodies like colored lighting, transparencies, dynamic lights and smoothed 
 textures. The level structure where you could go back and forth between levels was quite original, 
 and the pace determined by goals and a story made the campaign a gripping gameplay experience. 
 With Quake 3, things started to change a bit. There was no longer a single play as we knew it. 
 It was bot match . A simulation of a multiplayer match against bots (AI opponents) . While single 
 player was a bit short, Quake 3 made its mark in history along with its predecessors for being 
 the fastest and funniest multiplayer FPS ever created. Is still one of the most frantic experiences 
 on the internet, and playing it on a LAN is a total blast.
  
  Then, there was silence.
  
  A silence broken with the news of Doom 3. Id had made it again. They had broken the bars in 
 the FPS genre by making one of the most advanced graphical engines ever seen. With an outstanding 
 atmosphere and creepyness, Doom 3 proved that the series was still alive, and hell if it was.
 
  
  But, what about Quake? If Doom gets a third part, why Quake cant get a 4th?
  
  Then Id screwed up. Now, for all of you that have read till here, Quake 4 IS NOT A BAD GAME. But 
 it isnt what it should neither. If you want to know why, keep going.
  
  If you indeed read all that, youll notice that I highlighted the points that made each game made 
 by Id a classic in its own right. The Quake series is a venerable one, with more than 10 years 
 in the scene, and is still one of the, if not THE most respected series on the gaming world.
  
  So, after 7 years since Quake 3, another classic should have been made, right?
  
  Well, 
 wrong.
  
  But lets start by the beginning.
  
  You are Corporal Matthew Kane, a new member of the Rhino Squad, the most badass of all the fleet. 
 You start with your ship being shot down on the surface of the alien planet Stroggos. Pretty much 
 like in Quake 2, you start only with your Blaster (a VERY weak pistol with unlimited ammo) that 
 is soon replaced by the Assault Rifle, a weapon good enough to last the whole game. As fr the rest 
 of the weaponry, is all standard FPS stuff (shotgun, chaingun, rocket launcher, so on) . Think Quake 
 2 weapons redesigned and with reload. The enemies, while also a remake from Quake 2, are different 
 enough in their new clothes like to be amazing on their own right. The Gunners are impressive, 
 and the Gladiators are an incredible sight to see. The AI isnt bad, but they arent the smartest 
 enemies on the Universe, so it is fun gunplay as you shred through their ranks with a big smile 
 in your face.
  
  One of the best qualities of the game is its level design. While there are two or three spots that 
 are annoying (jumping puzzles, anyone?) the rest are a fantastic display of imagination and artistic 
 skill. The levels have each its color set, and you can feel the grittyness of Stroggos desert on 
 one and then feel the staleness of one of their tech facilities just by their lights and textures. 
 You can also control vehicles (a hovertank, a mech and a mounted gun on a caravan) and these parts 
 a re shut-off-your-brain, run n gun mindless fun on rails. I would have enjoyed more these sections 
 if the vehicle physics werent so quirky, or if the linearity wasnt so obvious, but nevertheless, 
 they are stilll fun as they are.
  
  Graphically, the game excels. The Doom 3 engine is really put at work here, with massive environments 
 on some parts and the usual aisles on other ones. However, the aisles now have a better texture 
 treatment, meaning that they no longer feel like the plastic facility Doom 3 got us used to. Now 
 metal has its dents, plastic has its stains and glass has its irregularities. This makes the ambience 
 way more immersive, as you feel like the level has been there before you.
  
  The sound is right on par with graphics. The weapons have an impressivve punch, and the alien language 
 has an impressive resonance that fits very well the monstruosities you will be slaughtering along 
 the game. As in Doom 3, there are plenty of ambiental sounds, and none of them is out place.
  
  So far, so good. But what justifies that low score?
  
  Well, mainly the fact that it adds 
 nothing new. The story is the same as Quake 2, the weapons are ALMOST the same as Quake 2, the 
 freaks are MOSTLY of Quake 2. Heck, even some levels are CLOSE to Quake 2's. Think of Quake 2 on 
 Doom engine, with more dialogue. It might appeal to those hardcore like me, but even so, after 
 seeing the huge step forward in the series that was Doom 2- Doom 3 (ok, maybe not forward, but 
 it was a change) I kinda expected the same with Quake 4.
  
  But my major quirk is a spoiler. So stop reading here if you care about it.
  
  Last Warning.
 
  
  Ok, here goes.
  
  There is a sequence of the game that has your character stroggified. That is, turned to the enemy's 
 side. Is a fruesome sequence, and quite possibly one of the best sequences ever made. However, 
 after you are set free, you cant help but feel disappointed with the huge potential that was completely 
 wasted for the sake of linearity. You could have been an infiltrated soldier on the Strogg Army. 
 You could have been given the option of specializing an attribute or something. Heck, you could 
 have even be turned against the humans and play half game killing your once fellow marines. But 
 no. It was not meant to be. All you get after that is +25 health and the ability to heal on stroyent 
 health stations. Thats it.
  
  This major disappointment hindered any hopes I had for this game to be a total classic. It wasnt 
 able to think outside the jar and became just another FPS, with a good-but-not-great feel to it. 
 Is a shame. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alkpaz
Rating: 9.9
Date: Mar 21, 2007 6:30 am PT
Review:  When Quake 3 was released I cried.. since the game really was just a competitor to UT99. Quake 
 4 however infused the story of Quake 2 with new life. Doom 3 this game IS NOT! I hated Doom 3.. 
 though it was a good game I just didn't like it overall.. The expansion was a tad better but not 
 by much.. Quake 4 really does the series justice. Linear you say?! Umm sorry to burst your bubble 
 but umm Quake 1 n Q2 were linear as well.. and they were great games.. the second more than the 
 first. Also the graphics with max setttings in Quake 4 blow away Doom 3's... The game is far more 
 taxing on hardware so be warned.. I ran it smoothly with everything clicked on and max AA etc.. 
 but I also have a nice card.. 8800 The game is taxing because there is a ton of crap happening 
 all around you.. the game is a bit short.. but damn is it ever good!
  
  Prey? the only thing Prey had going for it was the wall/ceiling walk.. and some funky weps.. Heck 
 Prey was damn linear.. what? you thought that flying pod thing you flew around with in Prey was 
 the non-linear part? umm no.. it was restricted to an area.. you want non-linear.. play Farcry.. 
 THAT IS non-linear.
  
  The sound is just breathtaking on a X-Fi card.. and a nice pair of 5.1's.. Replay value? Hell yeah.. 
 its worth it to run through the game again just to see all the tiny details.. The only think that 
 really hampers the overall atmosphere is the background.. This game also makes use of multiple 
 cores.. (something Doom 3 does not have support for)
  
  I think the action takes place quick and keeps going till the end.. the only slow part is when 
 your on the ship.. but that is all.. and that is to give you more story.. The gore in this game 
 is top notch.. better than Doom 3.. Heck Prey comes close to the amount of gore this game has.. 
 and I iked Prey.. its a worthy game.. I will be enjoying this game well into the future do to the 
 pace and level designs and overall action!
  
  Id did something right! Now my beef with the multiplayer.. what is this?! Quake 3 all over again? 
 I tell you if I want to play old maps.. I'll go drown myself first.. This is the only weak part 
 of the game that I didn't like.. I guess I just need something more than the usual multiplayer 
 junk.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Terrorantula
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 18, 2007 11:33 pm PT
Review:  The 3 games on the Doom3 engine all play the same but have some differences...
  
  Doom3 - Old school Doom action with a storyline focusing more on horror.
  
  Quake 4 - Picks 
 up from Quake 2 and is more war/action focused with alot of fighting with you npc's
  
  Prey - Again a step up from the previous 2 games with some kool new features and is about aliens. 
 Its more about puzzles and close combat.
  
  ---------
  
  This game was the 3rd i played and it seems a slight step back in terms of graphics and optimization 
 to Prey but its pretty close anyways. The gameplay also felt more dated than Prey and more old 
 School and the single player doesn't seem as satifying than the other 2 games.
  
  However the Single player is a good length, slightly shorter than the other 2 and theres ALOT more 
 action and more enemies coming to you at once. It's going to be real fun to you if you liked the 
 other 2 games but don't bother if you didn't.
  
  The guns are also like the other 2 games and so they arn't really that great compared to other 
 FPS games. However this didn't really effect my fun but in a FPS guns are quite important.
  
  It's a simple run about shoot anything that moves FPS with no strat or messing about really 
 and there are some puzzles but they take about 5 seconds to work out so not that hard.
  
  The Graphics i felt wern't as good in terms of polish to Doom3 and Prey and i didn't really like 
 some weird blocky looking scenery like it came outta HL and the picture backgrounds are also pretty 
 bad. The performance is also a mystery to me, like why does the game use much more memory than 
 the other 2 games and runs my 2gb ram dry on ultra.
  
  The sounds are pretty much like the other games and arn't the highlight of the game however they 
 aint bad.
  
  The value depends on if you enjoy the Multiplayer which is basically Quake 3 with new graphics. 
 However theres not many people that are playing it and UT04 seems like the better option to go 
 for. I guess they wanted their Multiplayer to go onto the game Quake Wars which is justa multiplayer 
 game to take the fight back to UT and BF games that have outshined Quake since 2001.
  
  So overall its a pretty basic game that lasts in the single player between 6-10 hours and has a 
 pretty kool multiplayer. If you liked Doom3 and Prey then you'll love more of the same, otherwise 
 stay clear.
  
  + I also found Prey and Doom3 to have kool little extras like radio station phone ins you could 
 listen to and PDA messages you can read but this game seems to be missing all that kool stuff. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ofensatul
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 17, 2007 8:43 pm PT
Review:  Im gonna start by saying i am a true quake fan. Played them all , finished them all.. so I need 
 to say something about the last sequel. It was a bit scary at first I must say the enviroment and 
 the mobs are very well designed and the atmosphere very intense and dark at most times i dig it. 
 The storyline ? one of the best I might say , there are few games that interrupt my lunch or my 
 activities and this is one of them and it was worth it. Well shaped characters , great sound , 
 very cool effects. Anyway this is not a game for everyone it will get your hurt pumping like crazy 
 so if your into adrenaline rushes GO for it ;)
  I was simply amazed and this is one game i will never get rid off. Now we wait for Quake wars. 
 cheers 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jaydenakasha
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 17, 2007 4:37 am PT
Review:  Quake four is a great addition to the series if you're a fan. I will list the following in sections...
 
  
  1. Gameplay- Great fast paced gameplay, offering battles indoors, outdoors, on foot, or in a vehicle. 
 Every level requires good strategic combat. The twist in the middle of the game spiced it up even 
 more. The single player was never boring, and replayability is likely.
  
  The multiplayer was ok... i like the quake 3 style multiplayer, but built in bots are always good. 
 Although they did add a few new things to the multiplayer, it remained pretty much the same. Multiplayer 
 runs surprisingly better than single player however. 8/10
  
  2. Graphics- Based on the doom 3 engine, this game was a stunner. The outdoor and indoor environments 
 had wonderful levels of detail. The player models looked good to, as well as the gun models. 9/10
 
  
  3. The sound was, pretty good. There were many atmospheric sounds that sounded great. The gun sounds 
 i thought were pretty good, especially the machine gun. 8/10
  
  4. Great game for the price $30! 9/10
  
  Overall, quake 4 is a great game, single player and 
 multiplayer wise. Overall score {8.6} 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ng2006
Rating: 7.6
Date: Mar 12, 2007 6:36 am PT
Review:  Playing Quake 4 is just a new experience like playing other Quakes. And it also sometimes reminded 
 me of Medal Of Honor (When you're riding a vehicle or a war robot) . Very nice gameplay and weaponry 
 design. Although they say Quake with Doom Flavour, it's complete ly different from that boring 
 Doom game. Enemies were just the right ones to handle. They were not that much tough like the ones 
 in Doom and not much easy. you really feel great and easy with the guns especially the RailGun 
 and the DarkMatterGun and the good thing is that you've got a flashlight attached to most of your 
 weapons (Not like Doom3 that you've got to kill yourself to download a stupid MOD to have a flashlight 
 attached to your weapon) . I give it an A+ and I think other Quake fans would say so. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drucom
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 4, 2007 7:31 am PT
Review:  What can I say that hasn't been said before, really? Quake is one of the most famous series of 
 games ever. This is a fact.
  
  With Quake 4, the legacy goes on. One of the most powerful engines behind the game is the storyline. 
 Everything you do in the game has a reason, in Single Player mode. I will only be reviewing Single 
 Player because I have not had enough experience with the Multiplayer in Quake 4. The game begins 
 with a war for the survival of humankind. The protagonist of the game, Kane, is the character you 
 control. In a planet-wide battle, the ship carrying you and the rest of Rhino squad is shot down. 
 Miraculously, you and a few others survive. The look of the game is truly epic; it really does 
 feel as if you're in the heat of battle, but at times there could have been more enemies to deal 
 with in the outside areas, to give the game a sense of real chaos (as it is set during a war, after 
 all) . The idea to have different squads in the game add the realism that is prominent in Quake 
 4. You'll be fighting alongside members of the Viper squad, the Badger squad, and the Venom squad, 
 among others. Another great aspect of this game is the voice acting. The superior officers and 
 their voices give a real sense of command. Medics, on the other hand, will be slightly more soft-spoken.
 
  
  The graphics are phenomenal. The Doom 3 engine is used, but id and Raven have opted for a less 
 sinister look in comparison to Doom 3, a very dark game (due to the lack of ambient lighting that 
 give is a very eerie look) . The details of the characters are also great. One predominant aspect 
 of the game is it's linear storyline. Although the game is very fun to play, it is also easy in 
 the way that all the objectives are marked out and one will rarely have to look for a long time, 
 as the path is usually marked by having closed doors forcing you to enter through the only open 
 door that, through inference, must lead to the right path.
  
  There are some highlights to the game. Using a Strogg engine to melt an ultra-resistant pane of 
 glass blocking your team from their objective.
  
  All in all, a fun game, albeit a very linear one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Panzerarmee
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 2, 2007 12:15 pm PT
Review:  The story is simple, humanity is in war with an alien race, called Strogg and in the final attack 
 against the Strogg planet has begun. You play as a soldier in Rhino Squad, seems to be the best 
 squad of them all. I can separate the story line in three chapters. Primary Your mission is to land 
 on the planet, regroup with the team and the other attack squads, secure the landing site, destroy 
 defenses and all Strogg soldiers caught in the middle.
  Second chapter, your team and other must destroy a communication center to gain the advantage in 
 this war. but it happens to be a trap and your caught and they try turn you in one of them soldiers.
 
  Chapter three your saved in the last minute by your team, but your now half human half Strogg. 
 Now all you have to do is to return the favor. And the taste of vengeance never been sweeter. Kill'em 
 all. Now few words about the game play, you will get the well known weapons with little modification 
 and a new ones, like the hyper blaster that replace the plasma rifle, the nail gun, and the BFG 
 is replaced with the Dark Matter gun, a pretty nice toy that shoots little dark holes. That sucks 
 and destroy everything in its path. I find it very cool.
  The things i miss from the previous versions are the power-up. No more quad damage, invulnerability, 
 and the rest. But i managed to finish the game without them, but i think it was more fun with the 
 power-ups. I hope I'ed make you curios, the game worth playing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talonfire
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 28, 2007 7:58 am PT
Review:  There's been a disturbing amount of lackluster shooters in recent years. It's really evident that 
 the genre as a whole has gone downhill, so I was pleasantly surprised when I finally sat down with 
 Quake IV.
  
  Quake IV is the first game in the series to continue the story of one of its predecessors, in this 
 case Quake II. Shortly after the nameless Marine protagonist of Quake II assassinated the Makron, 
 a second assault wave from Earth arrived. You take on the role of Mathew Kane, the newest addition 
 to Rhino Squad which is to be deployed on Stroggos and take advantage of the resulting chaos after 
 the Makron's assassination. The story of the game mostly focuses around shutting down the Nexus, 
 the system which controls the alien Strogg. It takes a few twists and turns along the way keeping 
 you hooked, but the ending feels a bit abrupt.
  
  Despite being a sequel to Quake II, Quake IV plays more like Quake II meets Doom 3 which I suppose 
 is to be expected since Q4 uses the Doom 3 engine. Still, Q4 makes much better use of the engine 
 than Doom 3 did, in my opinion. There'll still occasionally be dark corridors, but your blaster 
 and machine gun have lights that you can switch on to help you navigate them. Q4 also places more 
 focus on action than Doom 3, you encounter far more enemies at a time in Q4 than you do in D3.
 
  
  Quake IV also features less bland level design than Doom 3. Q4 has some very nice open levels that 
 take place on the desolate terrain of Stroggos, you'll also get to occasionally drive\ride a vehicle 
 giving outside missions a bit of variety. There's still a lot of corridors, but since Quake II 
 was a corridor shooter Quake IV wouldn't be a true sequel without them.
  
  The graphics are the same exceptional quality as one would except from this engine. Character and 
 Strogg models are detailed, the environments are beautifully textured. Quake IV has some very gruesome 
 scenes, so I wouldn't recommend the game to anyone with a weak stomach.
  
  The audio is great, the voice acting is top notch and features some very talented VAs. The sound 
 effects seem a bit off since the weapon sound (and look) nothing like their Quake II counterparts, 
 but they're still great sounds. Lastly the music, despite being rare, is a very well composed score 
 and always seems to fit in nicely when it does play.
  
  Quake IV is one of the best shooters I've played in years for many reasons. It can be a bit graphic, 
 and the single player campaign is a bit short, and features an abrupt ending, but I would recommend 
 it to any single player shooter fan. For multiplayer fans... well let's just say that you're better 
 off sticking to Quake III. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Demon6786
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 14, 2007 7:37 am PT
Review:  Ok, well i disagree with gamespot, who only gives it an 8.0 for reasons unkown and i dont care 
 about their reasons because they are not me and i only care about my opinion and those of the people 
 who like to write me angry letters.
  
  Alright, i love this games shotgun because, well its a shotgun.. The machine gun is fun too, and 
 is the gun i use the most ( probably just because it has the most ammo ) The enemies are fun to 
 kill and the fact that you have a squad is pretty cool. The vehicles are fun and the explosions 
 are cool.
  
  The fact that it goes off of quake 2 and the fact that you supposedly killed that dude is pretty 
 cool and more games need to do that. Like ID, if you ever make another doom game, stop repeating 
 yourselves and add onto the story, like you did with quake. The whole having a medic on your team 
 is cool because i hate dieing, who doesnt hate dieing? If you love dieing write me at my e-mail 
 telling me why you love dieing because i would really like to know.. ( Demon6786@hotmail. com ) 
 The levels are fun, especially the first one, in most games the first level is the best level... 
 Anyway go out, buy the game, and dont listen to gamespot or that weird guy who only gave it a 3. 
 something because he obviously doesnt appreciate games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: naztwelve
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 12, 2007 4:37 pm PT
Review:  OK the multiplayer in quake 4 highly resembles quake 3 arena, and probably is the reason why this 
 game is brought down from a 9++ by critics. But who cares when Quake 3 arena still pwns today? 
 Stick with it for the multiplayer, stay with your friends and established servers..
  
  Quake 4 single player is everything i expected... it is amazing. I just recently got my new PC 
 with my new 19 widescreen and this is crazy.
  Crank up the volume and blast away..
  The graphics are amazing, the single player campaign is not too repetitive each level is different. 
 and when i big mother f'r comes up u know ur in crap..
  The vehicle levels are good too.. trying to ward off missles while also trying to kill the planes 
 sending them (and they also shoot at u and drop stuff too) all crazy.
  
  So far havent ventured too far into the multiplayer as i dont seem to be picking up alot of servers 
 though my internet was lagging bad the other day so will have to get back to you to give u accurate 
 assumtion tho yeh as i said before it is reminiscent of quake 3 arena. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zedy_3000
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 12, 2007 12:30 pm PT
Review:  this game lasted me rather a long while but that was on easy now onto the hard stage :) took me 
 about a month to complect on easy, so is rather a good challnge for action fans. this game is simeler 
 to doom, prey and ducke but much better story and graphics. the good: graphics ROCK! sounds great 
 really gets you in the mood, and unlike most other games like doom you are often with members of 
 your own squade and they can die so if you like to stick in a group try to keep them safe. the 
 bad: umm ok their is nothing really bad about it lol just the dvd edition is nothing special.
 
  
  overall worth the money and can intertan for hours and i found i can replay on a harder level without 
 being board. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: someone6669
Rating: 3.1
Date: Feb 11, 2007 8:51 pm PT
Review:  I had high hopes for this game. Unfortunately, it didn't deliver. This game is disappointingly 
 linear. You simply have to move... spot enemy... stop... kill enemy... continue moving, repeat 
 till game is finished.
  
  All the puzzles are disappointing. You simply keep moving, and the puzzles solve themselves (Solving 
 a puzzle consists basically of clicking a switch. Sometimes a couple of them) .
  
  Boss fights were disappointing too. There were a couple that caught my attention. They were not 
 great by any means, but they are at least better than all the other mediocre bosses in the game.
 
  
  Riding vehicles seemed fun at first, but quicky became boring. You still have to do the exact same 
 thing, only you are moving slightly slower, and your movement is a little bit restricted.
  
  The story is just meh, except for one really interesting plot twist near the middle of the 
 game. Other than that, the story is basically people just asking you to do things (build a bridge, 
 activate some system, restore power... bla bla bla) . Each one of those is done in exactly the same 
 way... kill a couple of enemies and click a switch.
  
  The thing that makes this game stand out though is the graphics. It has the most beautiful graphics 
 I have ever seen in a game. Unfortunately, graphics alone is not enough to create a great game, 
 or even a good one.
  Sound is pretty impressive too. When a rocket explodes near you, you lose the ability to hear for 
 a while. That was a nice touch.
  
  Bottom line is, this game has the same gameplay as the games from the mid 90's. It just doesn't 
 deliver today. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: furionpride
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 10, 2007 5:04 pm PT
Review:  I bought the 360 version when in came out, and had fun, but it wasn't extreamly satisfying, mainly 
 'cause the graphics looked a little blurry, and the frame-rate was terrible.
  
  It's now a few years later, and I made myself get it for the computer, and it's way better. I really 
 enjoyed Doom 3's graphics, and Quake 4 brought back those graphics but put them in a different 
 world, and that attracted me. While it's not entirely scary, the action is as fun as ever. The 
 addition of a flashlight on at least two of the weapons was nice, as well as the vehicle sequences.
 
  
  There's a beautiful event around the beggining of the game where a huge ship lands in a field, 
 right before your first-person eyes. And it's a nice break from the action to mope around this 
 thing when you get the chances. Its interesting listening to people's conversations, as well as 
 refering to your character's history. Although you never speak a word in the game, your squad-mates 
 sure talk a lot! Sometimes they'll repeat the same combat phrases over and over and over again! 
 And it's a real pain when they get in your way of the perfect shot. But you're not running around 
 with the little sentry bots in Doom 3, who do pretty much everything for you. Your squad-mates 
 rely on your tactics to win every battle, which is good.
  
  A good portion of the game, you asume the roll of The Strogg Marine and you can do some pretty 
 cool stuff with that orange outfit of yours. Such as pass through laser defense grids undetected.
 
  
  Basicaly, If you don't have this game, Get it... It's a nice addition to the Quake series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tomdogg
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 13, 2007 7:08 pm PT
Review:  Just like Doom 3 and FEAR, I waited to play Quake 4. For a whole year, I waited in agony for my 
 chance to check out one of the coolest first person shooters ever made. I was going to buy the 
 Xbox 360 version, but I read that the Xbox port paled in comparison to the PC version. So I decided 
 to wait, and after more than a year of waiting, I finally got my wish. I must say that Quake 4 
 was worth that wait. Quake 4 is so action packed and entertaining, that the game can even appeal 
 to people who are unfamiliar with the Quake series altogether. I have never played a Quake game 
 ever, but Quake 4 has me very interested in the rest of the series.
  
  As I said, I have never played Quake 4 but I managed to get a good solid piece of the story down 
 pat. The story starts just after the events of Quake 2, where the lone Marine has killed the Strogs 
 leader, and now the whole race has fallen into chaos. The main characters name is Marcus Kane 
 who is a dishonored soldier, and has recently joined Rhino squad. The humans are now invading the 
 Strog home planet in an attempt to win the galactic war. The whole main point is to take out the 
 remaining lieutenants in order to render the rest of the Strog army helpless and win the war.
 
  
  Graphics- 9/10
  The graphics in Quake 4 are awesome even to this day. Quake 4 is run on the Doom 3 engine which 
 was one of the best if not the best graphics engine when the game was released. The changes and 
 enhancements that have been made for Quake 4 are no exception either. Its still the same Doom 
 3 engine, but with a lot more detail to everything. For instance, the lighting has been improved 
 by a huge margin, and in some cases actually looks real. The individual detail to the character 
 models has been improved and more noticeable detail on parts like the fabric, and metal are noticeable. 
 The special effects have been improved mainly for the weapons, but also for effects like the lighting 
 and fire. Still, even when the game came out, I didnt think that Quake 4 held the best visuals. 
 That spot was reserved for Oblivion. Quake 4 still looks awesome nonetheless and Im not trying 
 to bash the game. Im just saying that the visuals werent the supreme of the supreme.
  
  Sound- 10/10
  There is no doubt that the sound in this game is superb. Much like the visuals, 
 the sound is also a far cry from Doom 3. For instance, its actually possible to hear the brass 
 shells clinging to the floor when the assault rifle is fired. The same goes for the shotgun and 
 any projectile weapon. The other weapons are no exception either and have very eerie other-worldly 
 sound effects to them. The voice acting is great as well. Every character can be clearly heard 
 and understood, but the diversity of voices are not that all diverse. The soundtrack is also built 
 differently from Doom 3. Doom 3 had a very atmospheric sound quality to it, while the sounds and 
 soundtrack in Quake 4 are built more for action and do a great job presenting themselves. In the 
 end, the sound is very good in Quake 4.
  
  Gameplay- 8/10
  The gameplay in Quake 4 is a little mixed but still good nonetheless. The single-player for instance 
 is a lot of fun. Unlike the slow, creepy pace of Doom 3, Quake 4 is a true run and gun game. Nearly 
 every hallway is filled with angry looking enemies ready to rip some human heads off, and they 
 are no pushovers like Doom 3s enemies were. Sure, the enemies can go down easily, but there are 
 a lot of them. They range from the standard soldier, to some high tech spec ops aliens, each tougher 
 than the last. Also, unlike Doom 3 again, there are marines who fight along side players throughout 
 the game. There are some who can die without penalty, but there are others who must stay alive 
 or its game over. There are also some vehicles sequences where players are allowed to pilot a 
 tank, a mech, and even man a machine gun to defend a convoy against attackers. There are rechargeable 
 shields for every vehicle which makes the game a little too easy during these sequences but still 
 fun. As for the arsenal, eventually the game takes players across marines who can upgrade certain 
 weapons in their arsenal. During the beginning of the game, the weapons that players start out 
 with are good, but have many flaws. The upgrades fix those flaws, and can make some people think 
 during combat situations about which weapon to use. Overall, the single-player is a lot of fun 
 and will keep players going form about 10-15 hours on the normal difficulty. As for the multiplayer, 
 not only is it somewhat ghetto, but its old as well. The multiplayer is basically a direct port 
 from Quake III with Quake 4 graphics. Not that this is bad, but there were no adjustments made 
 for the multiplayer like there were for the single-player. Back in 1999, the multiplayer was fresh 
 and new, but nothing stays on top forever. In the end, Quake 4 is great fun when it comes down 
 to the single-player, but the multiplayer is very lagging. Still, any Quake fan will love this 
 game and even people who are unfamiliar with the Quake series will enjoy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Subcritical
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 5, 2007 4:59 pm PT
Review:  Graphics are excellent. Sound is very good and the pace is hectic. Quake 4's action is different 
 from some other FPS shooters such as FEAR or Far Cry in that the AI is almost non existant. Whereas 
 FEAR or Far Cry have you battling against enemy AI in a tactical manner, Quake 4 has you battle 
 the enemy based on the attacking characteristic of a given foe. Once you start to recognize which 
 enemy you are fighting, you stand a better chance of not getting your brains blownout.
  
  There are many different characters that employ different tactics, but these tactics really can't 
 be confused with AI. But don't let that lead you to believing that the game isn't fun. Because 
 it is. Just don't expect to be taking on Einstein in a chess match. Speaking of the sordid types 
 you'll be fighting, it ranges from simple idiots that rush you to Strogg that will take some cover 
 when you engage them. Some float around, others shriek at you and can actually kill you if you 
 get caught in the shriek zone. But the overall premise is to blast away. No need to conserve ammo 
 as you'll be unloading clip after clip into different enemies. As mentioned, it is fun. The best 
 tactic is to know your surroundings, shoot and fall back, and you must dodge and move quickly so 
 that you are hard to hit.
  
  All of the enemies are distinct and look fantastic. Also all of the 10 weapons you get to carry 
 look phenomenal, sound great, and add to your strategy to survive.
  
  Voice acting is a perfect 10.
  
  I hope there is a sequel. At $19.99 for this game, it was 
 a bargain, and of course its better on the PC. If you take this game for what it is: graphically 
 beautiful, hectic and fast paced action, with very good sound, excellent voice acting and enemies 
 a plenty that have distinct ways of trying to dispatch you, then your in for a heck of ride.
  
  Enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DooM-ftw-
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 3, 2007 2:04 am PT
Review:  Quake 4 is very engaging during the single player campaign and its also very funny (I loved slaying 
 the Stroggs with the tank) .
  The graphic of the game is impressive and the sound is really nice creating a true war atmosphere. Quake's4 
 multiplayer looks like Quake's3 but with better graphics, which isn't the most original thing in 
 the world but it isn't anyway a bad idea, and if u think about it is the best idea considering that 
 Quake's3 multiplayer was one of the most popular multiplayer mods ever created. Think about Valve 
 with Counter strike Source........ what is the difference between C. S. Source and C. S.1.6? I'll tell 
 ya...... the graphic engine.
  So the fact is that an engaging single player+Quake's3 multiplayer (but with a far more better graphic 
 engine) =an almost perfect game: D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Humikimi
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 1, 2007 10:22 pm PT
Review:  Quake, id Software's first entrance into the world of 3-D FPS. Ever since then Quake has done a 
 pretty good job of adding something new to the FPS world. We have some of the best deathmatch coming 
 from Quake, an actually decent (not the best but at least it is there) story coming from Quake 
 II, and Quake III Arena going back to its multiplayer roots and multiplying that over 10 fold. 
 True, the Quake series by many may not be considered the best in FPS, but it can't be denied that 
 it holds its place in the charts nonetheless. Quake IV takes everything to a whole new level. I 
 think it is unfair to be comparing Quake IV to Doom 3 merely because they use the same engine, 
 they are not of the same series. It is like comparing Hexen II to Quake II merely because they 
 used the same engine, although they are completely different games. Enough ranting though, time 
 to get to the review.
  
  Graphics (10/10) :
  Doom 3 Engine. Shouldn't that say enough? Considering the Doom 3 Engine worked wonders for small 
 internal places. I wondered how Quake IV would be able to make any good use of this (since Quake 
 tends to have larger areas) without destroying our PCs. It worked though. The game looks absolutely 
 beautiful, and it improves on Doom 3 graphics by a bit. One notable mention is that the models 
 for the enemies are done with a lot better artistic work than Doom 3 was (don't get me wrong they 
 were darn good too!) . It is still a little dark in places but the lighting is pretty darn good. 
 It isn't dark outside which is good and it is dark where it logically should be dark for a alien 
 installation like that. All-in-all this is a very beautiful looking game, unfortunately you need 
 a killer computer to fully enjoy this aspect.
  
  Sound (8.5/10) :
  Voice acting is great in this, although often there is comm link and soldier talking at the same 
 time so you don't understand. For the most part though the sound is great and gets you in the mood. 
 Monster sounds are almost real sounding sometimes, guns sound like guns, ambient sounds are great 
 as well. There are two things that hinder this score. The first is that footsteps are barely noticable 
 which doesn't make any sense. Second is that the music, while I do admit it is good, isn't used 
 enough. Quake II had a magnificent soundtrack to go with the game I think, but this only had event 
 music. For an action FPS like this that is a drawback. They could have at least had a bit more 
 music. Control (10/10) :
  Basic FPS control nothing out of the ordinary here. Why does it get a 10 then? Because since it 
 requires little use of other buttons besides the basic move and shoot, it isn't really complicated 
 enough to get any real criticism.
  
  Gameplay (9/10) :
  FPS games have too much expected out of them nowadays, and the best part of the game is often overlooked 
 now. Is it fun? Yes, this is very fun. No real puzzles so it isn't mind boggling or challenging, 
 but the action never calms down enough to bore you. It just gets better and better as you go on. 
 Actually has really good boss battles too, haven't seen that in recent FPS games either. Why a 
 9 and not a 10 then? There are three parts in the game introduced (one especially) that are underplayed. 
 You get to use a tank once in the game, yes only once. You get to use a mech in the game, only 
 once yet again. Vehicles are very fun in a game but this felt like a tease almost, although the 
 sequences were fairly decent length they should have made better use of them. Third? I would say 
 this is a spoiler but it was revealed in the trailer so forgive me. When you get turned into a 
 Strogg, you don't really get any special powers or anything. Whereas I know at least Area 51 does 
 give you extra powers (there was another game don't remember) . They tried to make it such a big 
 twist but it just didn't really add to the gameplay, it is just there to move story along. That 
 was disappointing. It is a fun game though so don't let that discourage you.
  
  Story (8/10) :
  It is a pretty straightforward story. Alien wants to destroy humans, humans want 
 to destroy them first. As far as how it progresses in the game it progresses greatly. I am not 
 giving this a high score because the story is cinematic and pulls you in right away, it doesn't 
 pull you in because it is so interesting, it pulls you in because it is so simple it is easy to 
 accept and not question. The progression of the story runs beatifully, for what part of the story 
 there is, and I feel that is very important. Even if the best story in the universe is in a game, 
 if it progresses in a strange fashion (i. e. with dull moments) than it isn't as good anymore. Just 
 don't expect a Final Fantasy VII out of this. Expect something mildly better than Doom 3 with better 
 progression.
  
  Multiplayer (7/10) :
  The Multiplayer feels like a totally different game almost, only with the same weapons. The multiplayer 
 is indeed very fun like Singleplayer, but for different reasons. Think Quake III Arena, except 
 with Quake IV guns and (I think) a little more fast paced. This game borrows from other Quake games 
 for maps and has a few original. Considering Quake has always had good maps and good multiplayer, 
 this is sort of limiting, especially since the amount of original maps aren't enough. It is good 
 though, especially if you liked Quake III Arena but liked Quake/II's guns better. Modes are the 
 same as always CTF, DM, TDM, Tourney, and ACTF (CTF with power-ups) . The multiplayer tones down 
 graphics a little so it doesn't eat system to make it impossible to play with 12 people online. 
 I liked that because I can't really play Doom 3 Expansion online even with my high-end comp and 
 cable connection. So it is good fast-paced multiplayer, but it doesn't add much new, that is the 
 problem.
  
  So now for the final verdict: (9.1/10)
  
  This overall is a great game and isn't given enough credit for the type of game it is (straightforward 
 action FPS) . Don't forget that id Software has a record for getting killer player made mods for 
 its games, so on top of how good it is now, it can be even better later.
  
  This game is worth buying off the shelf if you are into action-FPS, but if you are looking for 
 story oriented game play, dload a demo or play at a friends house first (I think there is a demo...) .
 
  
  *NOTE* This is a copy of my review from GameFAQs. I have only made minor corrections so that it 
 makes more sense. It also got one point higher than my original score, and that is because I would 
 have to play around with all the scores to get the proper score, and after having some time to 
 really think about it, I think this game deserves a .1 higher score. Enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikealfoni
Rating: 5.8
Date: Jan 29, 2007 5:31 pm PT
Review:  Bland graphics, mediocre lighting - two letters can sum up this whole game: OK. The music is OK 
 (what little there is) the weapons are OK (the upgrades feature is OK, basically you take crappy 
 weapons and turn them into normal FPS weapons) , the graphics, the gameplay, and the plot are all 
 OK. The voice acting is pretty good - that bumps it up a bit.
  
  The more irritating part of the game is the slow and unvaried movement- there's no sprinting (yeah, 
 my half-life bias) , there's little in the way of mapped terrain (feels a lot like the original 
 Doom layouts: you're walking in 2d in reality) , and the game sure could have used a lean command 
 or some other basic tactical element aside from duck and hope you get shot less. 
  
  If you are absolutely STARVED for an FPS, or an epic fan of the genre, go ahead and buy it. It'll 
 keep you entertained until something innovative comes out. Or, if you're absolutely cannot use 
 more than a strafe and shoot button at once, definately go for Quake IV. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KSlater85
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 28, 2007 9:20 am PT
Review:  Why so many maps the same? To be Fair... The single player in this game was better then Doom 3. 
 But the multiplayer was exactly the same as Quake III Arena. Good yes but the multiplayer has been 
 done before. And done better by other companies since then. I guess maybe they are trying to make 
 sure Quake Wars gets some attention.
  As for the Single Player. Very good story. Honestly It's one of the better ones for a FPS so far. 
 Definitly better then the story in Q3A . I don't think that had a story. And I personally think 
 this was a good use of the Doom 3 Engine (unlike doom 3 itself that was a waste. hehe) . I would 
 prefer to play the single player on this even over Prey. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BurnThisCity
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 26, 2007 2:51 pm PT
Review:  Quake 4 is definitely one of the best FPS games I've played. Unlike Doom 3, this game starts you 
 off as you jump right into battle. There isn't much story to this game, as your real primary objective 
 for the later 3/4 of the game is to destroy the Strogg communication system called The Nexus. Though 
 the storyline is quite striaght forward, every moment you spend battling in the game keeps you 
 wanting more, thanks to the detailed graphics and the great AIs that would keep your interest. 
 Speaking of graphics, the game uses the Doom 3 engine which makes this game look very much like 
 Doom 3. Though everything looks more detailed and the characters look more round and CG-ish than 
 perhaps in other games, the game does work its way around the realism and keeps the player focused 
 on the detailed world build.
  
  All in all, Quake 4 offers a fantastic and exciting single player gameplay, with graphics and sound 
 that keep up with the excitement of almost every twist and turn in the game. It is definately a 
 MUST for any FPS players. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cloud737
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 22, 2007 3:54 pm PT
Review:  This is a test review to see how gs`s formatting works. Please do not rate it. Actually, rate it 
 all you want, cause I`m editing it constantly and your rating will be lost.
  
  [Game Name] ( [Platform] version) Review
  
  Game Review Sections:
  ===========================================================
 
  Overall (X/10)
  ===========================================================
  
  ||-~Gameplay 
 (X/10) 
 
  ||-~Story (X/10) 
 
  ||-~Graphics (X/10) 
 
  ||-~Sound (X/10) 
 
  ||-~Effort/Innovation (X/10) 
 
  ||-~Tilt (X/10) 
 
  ||~Replay Value  [Rating] 
 
  
  
  [Background information]
  
  ===========================================================
  
 ||Gameplay (X/10) 
 
  ===========================================================
  .....|......\\Category Description : 
 
  .....|.......\\One of the most important aspects to any game. This covers how..|| .....|........\\well 
 the game plays, how immersing it is, the options the player ...||
  .....|.........\\has at his fingertips, the game's fluidity and atmosphere, how ...||
  .....|..........\\enjoyable 
 the combat and puzzles are, the bugs found in the .......||
  .....|...........\\game and how they affect the overall gameplay. 
 
  
  .....|
  
   
 categories: 
  
 
   (X/10) 
 
   (X/10) 
 
   (X/10) 
 
   (X/10) 
 
   (X/10) 
 
  
  
  [Short info on gameplay]
  
  ===========================================================
  
 ||Sub-category: 
 
  
  ||1) Combat (X/10) 
 
  ===========================================================
  ..........\\Category Description 
 
  ...........\\Combat is probably the most important thing to almost all of today's||
  ............\\games (except for those in some genres like adventure) . This .........||
  .............\\category 
 covers aspects such as how much fun it is to kick @$$, ...|| ..............\\how many skills you 
 get, how cool and devastating they look, how || ...............\\many weapons you have at your 
 disposal, how smart the Artificial ||
  ................\\Intelligence is, how appropriate the enemies look and how many||
  .................\\ways 
 of dealing with them off you have. Kick @$$! ..........................||
  
  
  [Combat information]
 
  
  ===========================================================
  ||Sub-category: 
 
  
  ||2) Puzzles (X/10) 
 
  ===========================================================
  ..........\\Category Description : 
 
  ...........\\Although the adventure genre started to disappear, some games ....||
  ............\\today still try to come up with innovative puzzles, even combining ....||
  .............\\them 
 with combat. This category tries to appreciate the quality of ...|| ..............\\the puzzles, 
 the thinking required, the logic behind them, their .......||
  ...............\\level of difficulty and how fun they are. 
 
  
  
  [Puzzles information]
  
  ===========================================================
  ||Sub-category: 
 
 
  
  ||3) Options (X/10) 
 
  ===========================================================
  ............\\Category Description : 
 
  .............\\Games today tend to give more options and freedom to the player..|| ..............\\and 
 make it possible for them to do almost everything they want in||
  ...............\\the game. This section covers how many options the game gives||
  ................\\you, 
 how important these are in the game and how these .............||
  .................\\influence the overall story. This includes customization options, .||
  ..................\\choices 
 you pick in-game, character class options, side quests,||
  ...................\\secondary objectives, and so on. 
 
  
  
  [Options information]
  
  ===========================================================
  ||Sub-category: 
 
 
  
  ||4) Fluidity: 
 
  ===========================================================
  ....|.......\\Category Description : 
 
  ....|........\\Many of you will probably scratch your heads when thinking what ...||
  ....|.........\\ fluidity means. Well, it covers aspects like what bugs the game ..||
  ....|..........\\suffers 
 from, how well the game motivates you to continue playing||
  ....|...........\\it, how consistent the narration is (eg: times when you don't ........||
  ....|............\\know 
 what to do, how often does the story seem disjointed or.....||
   etc.) and how well thought the controls are. ..............||
 
  
  ....|
  ....|
  
 
  
  
 
   
 
   
 
  
 
  
  [Short info on Fluidity]
  
  ===========================================================
  ||Sub-subcategory: 
 
  
  ||1) Technical Fluidity (X/10) 
 
  ===========================================================
  ...........\\Category Description : 
 
  ............\\This category covers the technical aspects of the game such as .....|| .............\\framerate 
 drops, bugs found and their impact on the enjoyment of ||
  ..............\\the game, how much the game lags, loading times, and other ......|| ...............\\technical 
 issues regarding the game. 
  
  
  [Technical Fluidity 
 information]
  
  ===========================================================
  ||Sub-subcategory: 
 
  
  ||1) Gameplay Fluidity (X/10) 
 
  ===========================================================
  ...........\\Category Description : 
 
  ............\\Gameplay fluidity takes into account how the bits and pieces of the || .............\\game 
 were put together, how well it keeps your interest in the ........||
  ..............\\game up, how much variety there is to the locations you visit, how ||
  ...............\\well 
 a game sticks to it`s theme and atmosphere, how fluid the ...||
  ................\\narration is, and other gameplay fluidity issues. 
 
  
  
  [Gameplay Fluidity information]
  
  ===========================================================
 
  ||Sub-category: 
 
  
  ||5) Atmosphere (X/10) 
 
  ===========================================================
  ...........\\Category Description : 
 
  ............\\You're probably wondering what I mean by atmosphere, right? ........|| .............\\Well, 
 each game has it's own atmosphere that it gives when you ...||
  ..............\\play it. This section covers how well the game reproduces a ..........|| ...............\\certain 
 atmosphere (eg: dark, sad, childish) or feeling, how ..........||
  ................\\immersing, believable and absorbing that atmosphere is. ...........||
  
 
  
  [Atmosphere information]
  
  ===========================================================
  ||Story (X/10) : 
 
  ===========================================================
  .........\\Category Description : 
 
  ..........\\A good story can sometimes make the difference between a game ..||
  ...........\\you love and one that`ll go into the trash bin. I take into account ........||
  
 ............\\how complex and long the story is, as well as how interesting and .|| .............\\unpredictable 
 its twists are, how clich&eacute; it gets, and how deep and ||
  ..............\\interesting it is in the end.  
 
  
  [Story information]
  
  ===========================================================
  ||Graphics 
 (X/10) 
 
  ===========================================================
  ..........\\Category Description : 
 
  ...........\\Well this should be pretty self explanatory! It means how realistic ....||
  ............\\the game was in it`s time, how visually stunning the environment, ..||
  .............\\the 
 characters, the effects, the spells and all else you see on .........|| ..............\\screen 
 are. Also, this category includes both technical and artistic ||
  ...............\\graphics under one roof. Take into account that I`m judging this ...||
  ................\\by 
 how well it looked in it`s time, and not when I wrote the review.||
  
  
  [Graphics information]
 
  
  ===========================================================
  ||Sound (X/10) 
 
  ===========================================================
  .....|...\\Category Description : 
 
  .....|....\\Sound has come a long way since the beginning, although most .....||
  .....|.....\\don't give such a big importance as graphics. From the the beeps ..||
  .....|......\\of 
 the beginning, to the electronically rendered sounds of the NES .|| .....|.......\\and the SNES 
 and finally to the recorded and orchestrated music ..||
  .....|........\\of today, sound has made a big step. You might not care about it ..||
  .....|.........\\until 
 it's gone, but sound can really make a difference in a game. || 
 
  .....|
    
 
  
 
   effects (X/10) 
 
   (X/10) 
 
  
  
  [Short info on sound]
  
  ===========================================================
  ||Sub-category: 
 
 
  
  ||1) Sound effects (X/10) 
 
  ===========================================================
  ..........\\Category Description : 
 
  ...........\\Sound in a game isnt a decisive factor in how the great the game ...||
  ............\\is, but it can certainly make you appreciate it more. This category is||
  .............\\dedicated 
 to how well the game`s sounds are, such as the sound || ..............\\of water, the wind, swords 
 clashing, bullets firing, objects being ...||
  ...............\\destroyed and, most important, voice acting. 
 
  
  
  [Sound effects information]
  
  ===========================================================
 
  ||Sub-category: 
 
  
  ||2) Music (X/10) 
 
  ===========================================================
  .........\\Category Description : 
 
  ..........\\Music in a game can be very important to some, as it gives you the ..||
  ...........\\right mood and the necessary inspiration to play more. Considering ||
  ............\\this, 
 I take into account how suitable the music is to the games .....|| .............\\gameplay, story 
 and atmosphere and also consider the technical .||
  ..............\\quality of the music (like I'll see one fail here!) . 
 
  
  
  [Music information]
  
  ===========================================================
  ||Effort/Innovation 
 (X/10) 
 
  ===========================================================
  ..........\\Category Description : 
 
  ...........\\Just as the name implies, this category is dedicated to point out the||
  ............\\effort spent on making the game (seen in the final product) , and .....||
  .............\\the 
 innovation the game has brought to gaming in general. Woe is|| ..............\\the game which scores 
 poor here!  
 
  
  [Effort/Innovation information]
  
  ===========================================================
  ||Replay Value  [Rating] 
 
  ===========================================================
  ..........\\Category Description : 
 
  ...........\\Replay value basically means how much you would be willing to .....||
  ............\\replay a game after you`ve finished it. Things like multi-player, side ||
  .............\\quests, 
 unlockables and other bonuses are taken into account. .....|| 
 
  
  [Replay Value info]
  
  ===========================================================
  ||Tilt (X/10) 
 
  ===========================================================
  ..........\\Category Description : 
 
  ...........\\While I try to be as objective as possible on all the other categories,||
  ............\\this section is entirely subjective and is dedicated to how I feel ........|| .............\\towards 
 the game. Consider it the same as GS`s tilt, as I decide ...||
  ..............\\the score here based on how much I feel like giving the game. ......||
  
 
  
  [Tilt info]
  
  ===========================================================
  ||Overall (X/10) 
 
  ===========================================================
  ..........\\Category Description : 
 
  ...........\\The final impressions and conclusions regarding the game as a ....||
  ............\\whole are gathered here. This category encompasses all other, .....|| .............\\and 
 decides the final rating of the game. 
  
  
  [Overall information] 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gaz-420
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 24, 2007 8:25 am PT
Review:  This game is very system intensive. Make sure you have the beef before you get too excited. It 
 is what it is, a Quake game. Nice twist in the story when you become one of the enemy soldiers. 
 The graphics are good, if you are able to turn them up, and the sound is pretty quake standard. 
 The single player is fun, but the multiplayer is the same old, same old. I liked in Quake 3 how 
 you can add bots to frag. You cannot add bots at all in Quake 4, which really sucks. Played on-line 
 a few times, then went back to UT2004 on-line. The graphics are the same as Doom3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheDarthvader
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jan 19, 2007 7:52 am PT
Review:  Well, when i first heard this is the sequel to Quake 2, I was really excited. Quake 2 was the best 
 story based FPS ever, better than HL IMO.
  
  The game starts off from where Quake 2 finished. Its quite different from Quake and ID's absence 
 is clearly felt. I didnt like the gameplay, it just wasnt fun and not nearly as intensive as the 
 other Quake games. The whole look and feel to the game was just not up to the mark. The huge weapons 
 did very little damage considering their size. The biggest disappointment was the removal of BFG 
 and replacing it with a piece of s*** called the Dark matter gun. Its a useless weapon, not to 
 mention it just goes through the enemy and only doesn't damage when it hits a wall. Ridiculous 
 is all i can think off. The famous railgun was just not the powerful railgun from previous Quake 
 games too.
  
  Graphically it was a stunning game, duh! as its powered by the Doom III engine. Although i must 
 admit the game doesnt look more impressive than Doom 3, maybe because of the extensive use of dynamic 
 lighting in Doom 3. The game ran very well on my system (in my sig) . Its not a system hog. To me, 
 the developers didnt make full use of the graphic engine.
  
  Sound was the weakest point of the game, as with all other Quake games. It was quite poor to be 
 honest. No real music. The strog repeated one sentence through the entire game whenever they appeared. 
 The dialogues were extremely boring.
  
  To me, this game was just not fun. It was boring. Throughout the game i was hoping that it would 
 become better, but before that happened the game was finished. I forgot to mention the end of the 
 game was bull****. I was expecting old school style killing of a big monster, but that wasnt it.
 
  
  I also forgot to mention that there is no deathmatch style play in singleplayer mode, which basically 
 is a nail to the coffin for this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shrodinger
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 17, 2007 5:39 pm PT
Review:  My new computer was just screaming for a new (er) game to rip apart. I found Quake 4 for 14.99 at 
 the local Store With the Greatest Purchase Potential. What a deal. Right out of the box you get 
 a return to a classic series and old school gameplay. Things to know:
  
  1. You are Matt Kane, one badass marine with a ugly mug and the the awesome ability to carry 10 
 guns. 2. Q4 takes off as the human forces move in to secure stroggos. Your dropship is slammed by 
 a rocket and all goes black... Upon waking on the planet surface, you are tasked with regrouping 
 with the rest of your squad, as they had left you for dead. From there you accomplish numerous 
 tasks in true arcade fashion that ultimately lead to the destruction of the strogg resistence.
 
  
  3. Q4 sports some fantastic visuals. Based on an updated Doom3 engine, you will see stunning lighting 
 and particle effects, heat distortion, and lovely texturing.
  
  4. The multiplayer is nostalgic, however it feels clunky, not as smooth as Q3
  
  5. You may feel 
 horribly alone online as it is very rare that you will find any server with more than 5 players. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Imeut
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 16, 2007 6:53 am PT
Review:  For of all am new to the Quake series. Yes I have watched people play Quake 3 and so on but never 
 really paid attention to the series. After wasting all the money I had on my computer I decided 
 to give Quake 4 a go. The Quake 4 story is really just a continuation of Quake 2 storyline. Basically 
 youre a marine and have to defend/attack a series of bases and facilities from these machine human 
 hybrids called Strog. The good thing is that there more light then in Doom 3! So finally youll 
 get a better look at those Doom 3 graphic engine. Anyway as I was saying the storyline isnt revolutionary 
 but follow the Quake series plot and is just interesting enough to keep you going from level to 
 level.
  
  The gameplay in Quake 4 is the jewel of the package. I havent played Painkiller but compared to 
 your average Fps Quake 4 is quick and intense. The single player packs some diversity from vehicle 
 missions to laboratories to your dark Strog infested crawl spaces. Some levels while pack some 
 intelligently placed Strog that make you leap out of your seat. Overall the single player is very 
 good and youll come back form more especially if your new to the series. But the real fun is online 
 against other humans. With a large selection of different game types, Quake 4 has everything youd 
 expect from this series packed online. First of all the maps in this game are awesome in detail 
 and very fun to play. Secondly the intensity in the death matches are unmatched by any other game. 
 Also the weapon selection is decent compared to Doom, Unreal tournament and other Fps series. Online 
 the rail gun is revered by expert players and will have noobs frustrated. The weapon selection 
 is balanced and the effects keep the weapons interesting and cool. There different powerups also. 
 The most infamous is quad damage which increases your weapon damage to an insane amount making 
 a shotgun a long-range weapon or a rail gun and automatic kill no matter what armour your enemy 
 has. All the other powerups add character to the game and youll have to master them in order to 
 be a good Quake 4 player. Its worth mentioning as for as the games concerned that Quake 4 is a 
 game that rewards winners and losers get punished in the form of respawning with no weapons and 
 armour.
  
  The graphics in Quake 4 are awesome and if you have a high end machine like me youll see the true 
 beauty of Quake 4 with no lag! Honestly I could just set in front of my screen and watch the graphics 
 for hours being able to play is a bonus! Anyway if you got the cash Quake 4 much like Prey or even 
 Doom 3 is great to look at and wont fail you in this department unless your computer isnt high 
 up there. The characters have endless detail and like my mother commented they look so real! Quake 
 4 is awesome even small bolts and nails are visible. Its truly awesome where computer graphics 
 is going and Doom 3 and Quake 4 is the showcase of that.
  
  The sound in Quake 4 is top notch. First of all the reloading actually sounds real for once! There 
 been so many fake reloading sound sin computer games its sad. But finally now Quake 4 and Doom 
 3 have shown what games can do. The machine gun sounds great ad the rail gun and other Quake weapons 
 sound good. The monsters in the game make.. Monster like sounds which sound awesome especially 
 if you got surround sound or good headphones. Sound in Quake is a huge part of the game. An expert 
 player can sue sound to give them that extra reflex or edge. Since the sound is good it becomes 
 part of the way you play. You can here enemies creep up if there not careful and so on. So here 
 Quake 4 does a great job.
  
  The single player in Quake 4 is quite long, I havent timed it myself but some say around 20 hours 
 or more. If your new to the series you can expect playing more then that as you redo several parts 
 over and over. Dont be frustrated most of the levels arent to hard and with some practice youll 
 get by quickly. The real length of the game is in the online which can last you a few years until 
 you get really bored. Clans also add length and competitions. So Quake 4 isnt a long game but 
 comparing it to the Fps market it does well.
  
  Overall Quake 4 for me is a great game and showcases good graphical prowess, while keeping you 
 intensely fixed to your monitor. Although most reviewers wont like this game Ill recommend it to 
 high end computer owners, Quake fans or Fps fans looking for a great online experience. Quake 4 
 adds its unique touch to everything it does and Raven how developed it did well in doing what worked 
 online and creating excitement offline. Overall Quake 4 is a winner and should make you feel like 
 a one also. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: badoggie
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 14, 2007 3:27 pm PT
Review:  they should tell us consumers that even if your computer meets all of the standard requirements, 
 it still may not work on it. in my case I am unable to see anything
  other than a blur of bright colors and there is no gamma control on the game only a brightness 
 control. So I will sell the game ASAP to someone who maybe has a use for it. The box looks very 
 pretty and is very sell-able.
  maybe thats why I brought it to begin with (the wrapper) anyway good luck to those why buy it and 
 cant use it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nuker_no1
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jan 3, 2007 9:56 am PT
Review:  Well, kind of weird SP and ok MP. Quite good graphics though, and teh voice acting is also good. 
 It's worth playing at least.
  The lighting effects are really nice with the doom 3 engines selfshadowing, next step is to put 
 soft shadowing into the engine.
  The particle FXs are bad, no sprite support from what I've seen, or particle stretching etc etc. 
 Prey's upgraded version of the same engine has better particles though.
  The textures are nicely detailed and there are many mods that put higher resolution textures inte 
 the game.
  The mods are good. you can easily put parallax mapping into this game, making the gfx even better. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hoz18
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 3, 2007 8:39 am PT
Review:  This game is fantastic. Good Graphics, sound and gameplay. I. D Software has made a good game and 
 they have also made a good game of Doom 3 with good graphics and sound. Raven software has developed 
 it well to get it up to a top notch standard with its graphics in particular. I also like Quake 
 4 because it has squad members helping you or setting you specific mini missions to complete. I 
 also like medics in the game because they can heal you if you are low on health as well as medipacks 
 you can pick up for health. The Earlier Quake games didnt have squad members or medics so you 
 had to go the missions alone and you would have to rely on medipacks for health. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Seventh_reason
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 1, 2007 5:48 pm PT
Review:  Quake 4.... the anticipated game, taking the series to a new level. With superb graphics, and an 
 amazing amount of things to do, this game is really worth the money - and worth standing outside 
 your local GAME store just to buy a copy.
  
  Quake 4 carries on from Quake 2, the first part to the story, introducing you to earth's struggle 
 against the strogg, a twisted race that uses human body partys with machines to create the backbone 
 of their army. Quake 4, lets you carry on the campaign against the strogg - as Matthew Kane (One 
 certified badass) .
  
  The opening video to Quake 4 is somewhat.... the same to quake 2. Your ship gets hit, and your that 
 last survivor from your pod. Armed with nothing but a blaster, you go and take the strogg down, 
 fighting your way through blood, torture, freakish aliens with the aid of your squad... which seems 
 to change through-out the game alot.
  
  The good points:
  Lifespan: Big enough to keep you entertained for a while.
  Learning curve - about 2 minutes - 
 Because you dont want a strogg as your best mate
  Graphics - Wonderful. Built using the same game engine as doom 3, Quake 4 takes graphics to a whole 
 new level, which will really melt your brain into submission.... forcing you to agree no game looks 
 as good.
  Gameplay - Although your character never speaks, its fun to watch over marines shoot and taunt 
 the enemy, while screaming your name for help.
  
  The bad points:
  Original - FPS... run around doing mission objectives and burning a whole into your ammo stockpiles 
 along the way. Fun... but can become frusrating.
  Boss fights - You can just tell when your going to fight a boss, simply because the room is like 
 a staged arena, awaiting your entry.
  
  The multiplayer is great fun. Fast pased - you join a room with loads of people, you will be shooting 
 before you spawn! Really gets the adrenaline going. And the gauntlet - hours of enjoyment.
  On the other hand... its just quake 3... same rules.... same weapons... just with different skins - 
 some different names, and the awesome next-gen graphics.
  
  Overall a superb game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xXxXeNoCiDexXx
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 31, 2006 12:38 am PT
Review:  This game is just superbly created. You can't go wrong with this game. The graphics are just amazing! 
 Tons of gore for the gore freaks! If you have a great computer, this game will just amaze you! 
 This is a PC game, Xbox version really sucks compared to PC version. If your looking for a great 
 fantastic, not bad in length game, look no further, this game is for you. Multi-Player is pretty 
 good, not great... but you get your moneys worth. Basically, looking for a great shooting game, 
 look no further!!
  The graphics aspect of this game will blow you away, one of the best shooter games I ever played. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PopSuperFly
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 29, 2006 7:06 pm PT
Review:  The next-gen chapter of id's infamous shooter series (built on the DOOM 3 engine) for consoles 
 and PC systems. In the game, you are Matthew Kane, an elite member of Rhino Squad and Earth's valiant 
 invasion force. Fight alone, with your squad, and in hover tanks and mechanized walkers as you 
 engage in a heroic mission into the heart of the Strogg war machine. But, in this epic war between 
 worlds, the only way to defeat the Strogg is to become one of them. Battle through early missions 
 as a deadly marine, then after your capture as a marine-turned-Strogg with enhanced abilities and 
 the power to turn the tide of the war. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheLithium
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 25, 2006 5:03 am PT
Review:  It's hard to describe this game. It is entertaining, but there's so many things in the gameplay 
 they could've done better. For example the story-line... They never really make things clear... 
 Comparing this game to, let's say; F. E. A. R., F. E. A. R.'s gameplay beats the crap out of this one. 
 With the possibitly to lean and go into slowmo, etc. One thing that really annoys me about the 
 gameplay is that you can't hide behind stuff and then peak out just to blast a guy, like your team 
 mates can. (Or even the stroggs) . No, you'll have to fully reveal yourself, 'cause there's no such 
 thing as leaning, which makes it easier for the enemies to take you down. They always overdo everything! 
 There's never just one enemie to take down, once you killed the bastard, there's three more behind 
 you. And after that six more. And after that twelve more... You get the picture.
  
  Speaking of the enemies. Kinda cool alien type-thingys, but the sorta reuse, like... 10 different 
 kinds of enemies through-out the entire game. And that's what's not so good about Quake 4. The 
 lack of interesting changes in the gameplay.
  
  However. The graphics and environment are just awesome! Probably the best thing about the game. 
 The sound is alright, but there is one outstanding quality about the sound in this game. The dialogs. 
 Everywhere you go there's groups of 2-5 soilders talking about anything at all. You can either 
 stand there and listen or you just run past.
  
  All-in-all this is a good game, but if you're not too sure about which FPS game you wanna buy, 
 if you can only afford one at the moment; I'd have to go with F. E. A. R. or Battlefield, for example. 
 This game is very good in the beginning, but very poor towards the ending. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ram_martai
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 22, 2006 3:52 pm PT
Review:  Quake 4 is one of the newest games brought out by one of the most best producers in gaming history, 
 ID Software, Quake 4 continues from where Quake 2 left of, on this particular game you play as 
 Corporal Kane one of your squads best marines.
  There is some new weapons to use in this game and the original ones like the Hyperblaster and Machine 
 gun, most of the enemies on the game are the same as of Quake 2 and a few new enemies to go with 
 it.
  The graphics are amazing with not alot more to say, the gameplay is very good as the default controls 
 are very easy to grasp or you can set it to your custom control system. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mejia13fernando
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 22, 2006 12:11 pm PT
Review:  Quake 4 has simply one of the best straight forward singleplayer action sequences that I have ever 
 seen. You will go about in the story to different but identical areas killing many Strog and following 
 orders from your team-Rhino team. You will have fun if you liked playing the previous games of 
 the Quake series. The multiplayer is fun and fast but lacks a very huge community of people to 
 play with. The whole game is pretty straight forward as already mentioned but for the price of 
 thirty dollars US and below, it's a solid buy worth at least a try on the demo version. Nothing 
 new here in this FPS genre type game except some good old fun pick up and play!!! :) The game features 
 some of the best graphics yet and suprisingly, it's not much of a resource hog either. For you 
 high quality gamers like me, you will need 2 gb of RAM!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: psyrk
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 22, 2006 6:43 am PT
Review:  Never mind what I wrote previously... Just trying to get your attention :)
  
  Gameplay: 8 - Decent gameplay. Resembles a lot like Doom 3 to me. You get sweet guns and all. Your 
 game should run fine if you got a good graphics card. You get this kinda one-way only Doom 3 type 
 of single player where you get guns and just kill enemies. You get some kind of hovercraft tank 
 and a pretty sweet mech. You will have even more fun on multiplayer mode. It might suck if you 
 lag... Oh, and if you have that type of SMG that looks like a rifle, don't zoom in... I don't think 
 id Software fixed that yet.
  
  Graphics: 8 - Great looking buildings, high textures on the enemies, although there's not lots 
 of blood in this game. Well, last time I played, I didn't see blood and guts splatter everywhere. 
 Could've been fun. Just like Doom 3 with a shotgun.
  
  Sound: 9 - Awesome sound effects, love the music. The guns each have their own sound effects and 
 the eerie ambient sounds that you hear in the dark, that isn't your team mate's stomach growling... 
 That's the ugly alien right in front of you.
  
  Value: 9 - I rated 9 on this because the multiplayer keeps you playing for hours non-stop. Maybe 
 go get some cola or go take a little bathroom break while the next round loads.
  
  FPS and Quake fans will love this game. I recommend this game to those 2 types of people, because 
 RPG fans are not really going to enjoy this one. Great game, worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mrbongos
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 8, 2007 10:35 am PT
Review:  Now the first thing so many who've never dealt with the Quake series for the first time are forced 
 to go Huh?! This is particularly because of the fact that Quake 1 has nothing to do with any of 
 the other games. Quake III is purely a deathmatch engine without anything to do with anything, 
 save that the Marine from Doom, monsters from a bunch of ID's games are in there, and its got 
 the name Quake, after that the connection to Quake II and IV are in name only.
  
  The reason I have come to so love this game, as I love Doom 3 (which folks can see in my review 
 of that) Is that it does what a game sequel has never done, in my time playing games. It takes 
 place in the seconds- after the end of Quake II. Not days, hours, weeks, months, or years like 
 so many great, and not so great game sequels, for example Halo 2, Doom 2, Return to Castle Wofenstien, 
 Blood Rayne 2, and the various sequels to the Dark Forces Games up to and including Jedi Outcast 
 and Jedi Academy. In all of these the time between games ranged from days to years between each 
 game in the storyline. Not Quake IV, if we all recall Quake II it began with a movie sequence showing 
 drop pods being sent down onto Stroggos, many getting blown up, and when you get out of your own 
 you see the results of your fellow Marines having met up with the Strogg on their home turf, nary 
 a survivor but chunks and weapons galore, leading you through the twisting corridors, the prison 
 with the creepy shrieks of agony, cries for mercy kills, then the processing center where gibbering 
 and wimpering Marines are processed into food and fuel, and so on, and so on until the final battle 
 with The Makron itself.
  
  Quake 4 opens with the Earth war fleet over Stroggos, bodies floating in the vacuum, ships being 
 blasted to shrapnel by anti-air, so to speak, and then the crash landing by your marine squad after 
 the CO outlines the success of the lone marine in Quake II, you baby you. At each new corner youre 
 given a plausible chain of events that both show you the basics and give you the situation at hand. 
 Charged with scenes of intelligent enemy and friendly AI, marines and Strogg taking cover, firing 
 from flanks, ambushes, and the occasional site of a fellow human being dragged to his death by 
 the enemy to be destroyed or taken prisoner.
  
  Raven showed exactly what the Doom 3 engine can do, rather than, at most, five or maybe- 6 enemies 
 coming out, saying boo, and trying to make you crap your pants, which I and MANY others I know 
 or have spoken with loved despite the shoddy review that Gamespot gave Doom 3, the enemies, at 
 points, keep flying out at you, piling in, using group tactics, using the Berserkers as meat shields 
 while they trooper up to smack you down while the others take up position and fire on you unrelentingly. 
 All the while it feels like youre actually in a war, the trenches look like a futuristic version 
 of what was seen in World War I and II, though the occasional lack of friendly NPCs (Non Player 
 Characters) makes it seem a little dreary and more desperate than the standing the storyline gives 
 the game right at the beginning. .
  
  The Human AI is top notch, kicking Halo and Halo 2s in the groin, where as in the previous games 
 the marines working with you would take some- cover and fire from it, mostly they were completely 
 helpless when the enemy charged in, firing a few rounds before getting batted aside like a rag 
 doll. Quake 4s marines can almost be accused of kill stealing with how efficiently they fire, 
 aim, and get the hell out of the way of enemy units. But they do need you to watch their back, 
 because theyre not perfect, as they shouldnt be. They can get killed if someone hasnt got them 
 covered when all hell breaks loose, such as in the early levels where you can loose a MUCH needed 
 Medic when a door flies open and a Berserker bum rushes the 4 man squad. Not that the Medic isnt 
 combat capable, quite the opposite, they muck it up as good as anyone else, same with the techs. 
 But it makes you care about the well being of your fellow marines. These guys can save your rump 
 in a hairball, and if you use them only as bullet stoppers, your going to find yourself overwhelmed, 
 outgunned, and kicking yourself for not working with the team the game gives you, if their death 
 doesnt outright cause failure on the current level, while trying to get to good cover, and a place 
 to bottleneck the attacking enemy so you have a hope of surviving; this being on regular difficulty 
 alone. .
  
  The graphics are beautiful, especially since you can actually see the world around you, one of 
 my only negatives towards Doom 3s use of its own engine. If a room or hallway is dark, theres 
 a damn good reason for it, the lights are blown out, power is down, or it obviously looks like 
 it was meant to be a dimly lit room for building design instead of being setup to give you one 
 monster popping out of the shadows after another. The sky overhead is often fraught with fighter 
 craft dogfights, tracers move overhead, missiles, bodies, and explosions are all around, all fantastically 
 rendered, giving you the sense of urgency that the folks at Raven wanted to instill. This isnt 
 a mop up for Earths forces, this is a slugfest, with the fate of one species or the other at stake, 
 this is humankind getting into the Stroggs face and hollering Were going down kicking if were 
 going down at all! The landscapes in the distance dont look like fancy matte paintings of the 
 environment, cliffs, crags, wide expanses of the wastelands of Stroggos, and the battlefield, complete 
 with tanks, walkers, and infantry duking it out, can be seen, and Ive found that when you re-load 
 a save game from just before seeing this ongoing conflict, the fights arent scripted, they just 
 happen per how the AI on either side handles their situation. Flames lick up along the sides of 
 buildings and emplacements, fog and smoke obscures view, sparks fly, and blood sprays. My only 
 negative towards this that when you kill a Strogg their bodies disappear as if having an onboard 
 self destruct that only causes them to melt in a show of green plasma fire. Lovers of Quake and 
 Quake II will remember bodies staid for a helluva long time before they disappeared, or if you 
 hit them with a weapon that turned them into chunks, the spray would go in the appropriate concussive 
 direction, and youd have bits and pieces sliding down walls or dripping down off of ceilings. 
 Sure if you hit the enemy with Dark Matter or with the rocket launcher they splat, but it never 
 feels like their goo is hitting the wall, more disappearing in a spray of blood and chunks. .
 
  
  Now I know its rare most folks dont know the twist that comes mid-game for you and what happens 
 to your character during the storyline, so I wont reveal it in full here, but needless to say 
 when Corporal Kane gets his upgrade the level of game-play becomes that much more interesting. 
 Ever a little aggravated because of how fast the enemy moves? Or just worried because even if the 
 Marine moves fast, their faster? Well worry no more friends, because the moment youre put back 
 into control of Matt Kane 2.0, youre going to be considering turning mouse sensitivity down, because 
 you turn quicker, move faster, jump higher, and put the stomp back into Mudhole Stomping. The games 
 difficulty adjusts accordingly, as well, but it isnt hyped up so that it becomes impossible, but 
 you have to learn how to use your new speed and capability, have to discern how to strafe, and 
 re-learn the curve youd settled into. Youre a war machine now buddy, now go make Rambo proud. 
 .
  
  Ravens next greatest success in Quake 4 is the continued display of Strogg cruelty and experimentation 
 we glimpsed in Quake 2 Well glimpse is a bad word The display of experimentation and cruelty 
 we walked knee deep in blood through in Quake 2. Now we dont just see folks in cells, being mashed 
 by giant meat tenderizers, or exploding in some bizarre acidic goo. We see people who are used 
 as the power source and the mounting for computer screens and other equipment. We find labs with 
 people dead, their faces frozen in the pain and horror they experienced before they shuffled loose 
 the mortal coil. Familiar faces of Marines you worked with turned into Strogg, and all the joys 
 of having to put them out of their misery. .
  
  Want to go to war ladies and gentlemen? Forget Medal of Honor, forget Halo, forget Starship Troopers 
 (the new one thats a PC-DVD only) pick up Quake IV, and take it to the forces of Stroggos, tell 
 them you wont go quietly into that dark night. Because the war for survival or extinction is on, 
 and its up to you to lay down the law. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nawras
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 21, 2006 9:10 am PT
Review:  YAYS
  Awesome level design; great graphics; lots of action; very good voice acting; not having to be 
 alone is excellent; great boss battles
  
  NAYS
  A couple of levels are inhuman and disturbing; it uses Doom 3 engine so if you're not well equipped 
 you may not enjoy it; can be overly difficult if you're underarmed because of underplanning.
  
  It feels only natural that after Doom III that id software would release a Quake game. Although 
 they may look, and admittedly play the same, make no mistake: Quake 4 exceeds Doom III in so many 
 ways.
  
  You start as a marine being hunted down by Strogg, the main enemies in Quake, and from there you 
 would be regrouping with survivors and find you way to infiltrate into the Strogg stonghold and 
 put an end to them. Of course as you would expect, it is not an easy task, but you'd bet that it 
 is a lot of fun, just as much as Quake 2 was in the yesteryears.
  
  Unlike Doom, Quake 4 is much more action oriented and often you'd be facing a lot of enemies all 
 together instead of one or two. You'd be surprised every now and then by an enemy in hiding, but 
 it isn't intended to be scary as it is supposed to be intense, and in that it does well.
  
  You spend the entire game mission-based, and they are all coherent and tie to the ending. It isn't 
 your standard reach point B from point A scenario, but rather you'd be going through multiple paths 
 in the level depending on how the missions go. The missions involve simple tasks like activating 
 elevators or doors or reactors, or destroying them for that matter, and the mayhem is entertaining. 
 Mostly, you'd be accompanied by other marines, some of which are useful for healing your health 
 or armor, and others are all-out shooters. You'd expect it to be intense of course, as more comrades 
 means more enemies as well. Your comrades take more damage than you do, but they're not immune 
 entirely as they eventually do die, leaving you alone to fight the enemies. This is an interesting 
 gameplay element as it forces you to also protect your comrades and not let them do all the killing, 
 as you probably do need more firepower in some areas. Otherwise you'd find yourself barely escaping 
 death from low health and ammo, which are only strategically placed or hidden.
  
  Your arsenal is pretty standard Quake, nail gun included, although for the majority of the game 
 you'd be using low-level weapons especially the machine gun. It is efficient in disposing weak 
 to medium enemies, and it is also equipped with a flashlight which is useful at least in the early 
 stages. Eventually you'd use the shotgun for up-close strong enemy encounters, and when you receive 
 upgrades to your other weapons they'll be indispensable. Of course, it is all for your preference, 
 as most likely there will be at least one arms you wouldn't be using.
  
  In terms of graphics, although it uses the Doom engine, it actually looks better, thanks for the 
 fact that not everything is shadowed in darkness. The enemies look cool and the animation is very 
 fluid, and if you have a capable card you'd be treated nicely with all the bells and whistles of 
 Anisotropic filtering and Antialiasing. Otherwise you'd be opting to lower some settings or use 
 many of the available mods on the web and codes to directly enhance your gameplay from the Quake 
 console in-game. But it is a shame not to see everything in all its glory, because the world of 
 Quake is just awesome.
  
  As for sound, it is pretty standard, although you'd appreciate the high quality audio and the voice 
 acting, which, although typical, is well done. You'd also never feel alone since you'd be receiving 
 a lot of orders through transmission as well as updates, plus if you have some comrades along it 
 really feels like watching 24 Hours.
  
  The only possible main gripe about Quake is a particularly inhuman level, and although it is integral 
 to the story, having to sit and watch its introductory is vomit-inducing to say the least, and 
 it is probably the only place where you'd want to lower all the graphic settings to the bare minimum. 
 Watch humans get processed isn't entirely my cup of tea, but it is just a mild but necessary annoyance.
 
  
  All in all, I highly recommend this game, especially if you're disappointed by Doom III and its 
 boredom factor. Expect in Quake 4 a high level of adrenaline, action, lots of gunfire and some 
 of the most awesome boss battles in a first person shooter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lorondo-
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 17, 2006 6:26 pm PT
Review:  Quake 4 is a very good game from a visual standpoint and the gameplay is simple but actully quite 
 fun, It's also more thrilling and faster paced then id's latest game in the Doom series, Doom 3. 
 As I said Quake 4 is a very fun game to play but if you were looking for a unique experience, or 
 better online play then Quake 3 you wont find it here, unless you'v never played an FPS before. 
 Quake 4 is a game that when you see a trailer of it or play a demo of it you will really want to 
 play the game, that is of course if you havent played the original game already. As I said before, 
 the graphics in Quake 4 are phenomenal, close to if not the best looking game ever made, the models 
 are very well made and realistic, the lighting and shadows are excellent as well. The sound in 
 Quake 4 is also great, the enemies make very alerting intresting sounds when you encounter them, 
 and almost every weapon you fire sounds very satisfying and high quality.
  
  Quake 4 dosn't have much of a intresting storyline; instead focusing on pure thrilling and very 
 satisfying action, which it succeeds in doing very well. One problem of Quake 4 is that it isn't 
 very long, it shouldent take you more then 10 hours to complete the game so you'll be wanting more (This 
 is why they should make an expansion pack) . Also the game is somewhat easy, so if you'r first starting 
 out and you'r experienced with first person shooters, you'll proboblly want to start out on the 
 2nd to hardest difficulty setting and don't hesitate to play the hardest.
  
  Overall Quake 4 is a Great game and whether you'v never played a FPS game before or if you'v played 
 many, you shouldn't miss out on this one awesome FPS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bankisa
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 1, 2006 4:33 am PT
Review:  This game is amazing, there really is no other word for it. From cool start movie where you are 
 introduced to your squad mates, each of them having a great and yet subtle character to the massive 
 battles across Stroggos the game never fails to be pure class.
  
  Graphically its beautiful, the modle quality and lighting are second to none, the level design 
 is brilliant, managing a great variety for a game that essentialy a corridor shooter, and the animation 
 is near perfection.
  
  The sounds are brilliant too, the guns crack and boom with a meaty feeling, and the voice acting... oh 
 the voice acting... its better than HL2. The plot is very good, tied in nicely with Quake 2 while 
 adding a lot of depth and character to the story, not to mention the odd twist for added coolness. 
 It presented in a very good manner, with lots of drama both in the game and cut scenes. The fact 
 that ID really went all out to make you feel like a member of your squad is brilliant, it really 
 gives credibility the game since you dont feel like one man taking on the world, your just one 
 amid thousands yet all the same your essencial.
  
  The gameplay is much more Back to Basics run and gun, there is very little hiding or sneaking, 
 its all about getting the biggest weapon you can find and laying down some serious damage. Saying 
 that its done in such a way that it remains challenging and tactical throughout, never dose it 
 become dull.
  
  All in all Quake 4 is about the best FPS to come out for PC since HL2. If your looking for some 
 serious FPS fun then this it the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Exodia-Necross
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 23, 2006 9:05 am PT
Review:  For of all am new to the Quake series. Yes I have watched people play Quake 3 and so on but never 
 really paid attention to the series. After wasting all the money I had on my computer I decided 
 to give Quake 4 a go. The Quake 4 story is really just a continuation of Quake 2 storyline. Basically 
 youre a marine and have to defend/attack a series of bases and facilities from these machine human 
 hybrids called Strog. The good thing is that there more light then in Doom 3! So finally youll 
 get a better look at those Doom 3 graphic engine. Anyway as I was saying the storyline isnt revolutionary 
 but follow the Quake series plot and is just interesting enough to keep you going from level to 
 level.
  
  The gameplay in Quake 4 is the jewel of the package. I havent played Painkiller but compared to 
 your average Fps Quake 4 is quick and intense. The single player packs some diversity from vehicle 
 missions to laboratories to your dark Strog infested crawl spaces. Some levels while pack some 
 intelligently placed Strog that make you leap out of your seat. Overall the single player is very 
 good and youll come back form more especially if your new to the series. But the real fun is online 
 against other humans. With a large selection of different game types, Quake 4 has everything youd 
 expect from this series packed online. First of all the maps in this game are awesome in detail 
 and very fun to play. Secondly the intensity in the death matches are unmatched by any other game. 
 Also the weapon selection is decent compared to Doom, Unreal tournament and other Fps series. Online 
 the rail gun is revered by expert players and will have noobs frustrated. The weapon selection 
 is balanced and the effects keep the weapons interesting and cool. There different powerups also. 
 The most infamous is quad damage which increases your weapon damage to an insane amount making 
 a shotgun a long-range weapon or a rail gun and automatic kill no matter what armour your enemy 
 has. All the other powerups add character to the game and youll have to master them in order to 
 be a good Quake 4 player. Its worth mentioning as for as the games concerned that Quake 4 is a 
 game that rewards winners and losers get punished in the form of respawning with no weapons and 
 armour.
  
  The graphics in Quake 4 are awesome and if you have a high end machine like me youll see the true 
 beauty of Quake 4 with no lag! Honestly I could just set in front of my screen and watch the graphics 
 for hours being able to play is a bonus! Anyway if you got the cash Quake 4 much like Prey or even 
 Doom 3 is great to look at and wont fail you in this department unless your computer isnt high 
 up there. The characters have endless detail and like my mother commented they look so real! Quake 
 4 is awesome even small bolts and nails are visible. Its truly awesome where computer graphics 
 is going and Doom 3 and Quake 4 is the showcase of that.
  
  The sound in Quake 4 is top notch. First of all the reloading actually sounds real for once! There 
 been so many fake reloading sound sin computer games its sad. But finally now Quake 4 and Doom 
 3 have shown what games can do. The machine gun sounds great ad the rail gun and other Quake weapons 
 sound good. The monsters in the game make.. Monster like sounds which sound awesome especially 
 if you got surround sound or good headphones. Sound in Quake is a huge part of the game. An expert 
 player can sue sound to give them that extra reflex or edge. Since the sound is good it becomes 
 part of the way you play. You can here enemies creep up if there not careful and so on. So here 
 Quake 4 does a great job.
  
  The single player in Quake 4 is quite long, I havent timed it myself but some say around 20 hours 
 or more. If your new to the series you can expect playing more then that as you redo several parts 
 over and over. Dont be frustrated most of the levels arent to hard and with some practice youll 
 get by quickly. The real length of the game is in the online which can last you a few years until 
 you get really bored. Clans also add length and competitions. So Quake 4 isnt a long game but 
 comparing it to the Fps market it does well.
  
  Overall Quake 4 for me is a great game and showcases good graphical prowess, while keeping you 
 intensely fixed to your monitor. Although most reviewers wont like this game Ill recommend it to 
 high end computer owners, Quake fans or Fps fans looking for a great online experience. Quake 4 
 adds its unique touch to everything it does and Raven how developed it did well in doing what worked 
 online and creating excitement offline. Overall Quake 4 is a winner and should make you feel like 
 a one also.
  
  Interesting singleplayer and Intense multiplayer. Quake 4 is a unique experience thats sure to 
 impress. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pinkyimp
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 22, 2006 8:12 am PT
Review:  this game is good i think it deservs a more higher rating although it not as good as the almighty 
 quake 3 it still retains some of the fun from that game as well as adding some new editions to 
 the quake series
  
  Pros:
  -Good singleplayer
  -Multiplayer is better with Q4MAX
  -Good weapons
  -With a high-end system u can have rly high framerates
  -Framerates dont bog 
 down
  
  Cons:
  -The base multiplay is Rly bad -u need mods to enjoy the multiplayer aka Q4MAX (www. Q4max. com)
 
  -singleplayer is good but story is bleak
  -MAIN CHARATER DOESENT TALK!!! WTF this should be inproved in id games by now!!!!
  -no serious 
 attchment to charaters all in all great game but for muliplayer u need Q4MAX other wise it a rly 
 good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _seVen_
Rating: 8.1
Date: Nov 20, 2006 12:04 pm PT
Review:  I never really got into Quake1, I didn't have a PC at that time.
  I had Quake 2 on PlayStation, and I loved it. I played it with my friends alot, it was really fun, 
 and I liked the graphics either.
  
  Quake 3, however, given the fact had only multiplayer, which disappointed me alot. Quake 4, on 
 the other hand, focused on the singleplayer mainly. The story is pretty simple. It continues where 
 Q2 left off. Q2 ended with us killing the 'main' strogg, but it turns out that the 'main' strogg 
 didn't actually die. Ho-humm.
  
  So, we, now, in a squad, Rhino squad have to take the strogg down on their own planet.
  
  Sounds... 
 FUN!
  
  It is. The first part of the game is extremely fun. We play in a squad, and it's really rare that 
 you have to do missions alone. However, there's a crucial turning point in the middle, which doesnt 
 only change the appearence of the character we play, but the gameplay too. Solo missions, pretty 
 boring, and narrow. The missions are repetative, too.
  
  Bit disappointing. And it's short.... Graphically, the game is amazing. It runs excellent on even 
 a low end computer, yet still provides great visuals.
  The music/sound is brilliant. Especially the Strogg's crawling. Creepy.
  
  All in all, this 
 game is worth getting. Surely, the 2nd part feels a bit rushed, and way too oldschool, the game, 
 as a whole, is a great technical achievement, and is alot of fun to play. I recommend. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shadow230990
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 18, 2006 2:45 am PT
Review:  Quake games are classics. There's no denying that. But when the Doom&sup3; engine came about, it 
 was a nice opportunity to make a new one.
  But somehow, something isn't right.
  
  The game itself, is phenomenal. The graphics are great and the the sound is immersive, yet the 
 NPCs are too linear and invincible it ruins fighting with them. And for some reason, the final 
 fight seems.. a little tame. The last level of Quake II was brilliant, as it gave a sheer WHOAMG 
 feeling, but this one's just a bit dull.
  
  The multiplayer is good, but totally pointless. It's just a plain remake of QIIIA, but laggier 
 and with less players. However the mapping utilities are very nice.
  
  The performance of the game is a strange one. I get 60fps in Ultra in both Prey and Doom&sup3;, 
 but in Q4, my PC really struggles, and that sometimes ruins some scenes.
  
  The modding potential, as with all Doom&sup3; based games, is phenomenal. The SDK basically allows 
 you to totally redo the game, whereas the abundance of editors and debugging tools make it a great 
 game to work with.
  
  So a mixed bag, really. Some great points, some samey points, and some bits that feel a bit flat. 
 But it's still a great game to boot, and for the &pound;15 price tag that's now offered, it's well 
 worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bgrotha
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 9, 2006 2:31 pm PT
Review:  It seemed as though we couldn't expect any less from Id software when we first saw Wolfenstein 
 3d. Following it was Doom and Doom 2. Then came Quake. The FPS game that sparked a whole new generation 
 of first person shooting. Id software then, from the success of Quake, proceeded with their Quake 
 franchise, spawning two great sequels in less than 3 years. Quake 2 was a phenomenal single player 
 experience, bringing to life great looking graphics, a huge arsenal of weapons, and fierce fire 
 fights between you and cybernetic abominations. Quake III Arena was the literally the ultimate 
 online deathmatch experience, building a large community of over 300,000 players and 1500 servers. 
 After Quake III's blowout, Id went on to remake their older franchises Wolfenstein and Doom. First 
 came Return the Castle Wolfenstein, which brought some of the amazing online gameplay from Quake 
 Into a world war 2 themed environment. As well as a single player almost as good as the original's, 
 but with a fantastic storyline of both horror and surviving with war tactics. Doom 3 came next, 
 bringing to the world The Doom 3 engine which was a simply put, extraordinary piece of technology. 
 The sad thing is, as good as Doom 3 was, it could've been a whole lot better. Quake 4 utilizes 
 the Doom 3 engine to a better extent, but at this time, that's too late, plus the game doesn't 
 exactly keep itself in tact.
  
  Quake 4's story is only half-decent. Following the events that took place in Quake II, you are 
 no longer a lone marine, now you fight with your comrades to finish off what the nameless soldier 
 in Quake II started. Now that the enemy's leader is dead, you must pursue in stopping the enemy 
 permanently. Unfortunately, your enemy, the strogg, may be a race of cyborgs, however, none of 
 them seem to actually have a personality. There is a wide variety of them, but like I said, none 
 of them seem really angry, just energetic. The arsenal is pretty immense. Much like the Quake II 
 arsenal. The only true change is the conversion of the BFG10k to the Dark Matter Gun, and the addition 
 of the Nail gun. But like I said, a lot of old weapons from Quake II have been revamped and restored. 
 The hyper blaster, the shotgun, the machine gun, the grenade launcher, the rocket launcher, and 
 the rail gun. They've even brought back the blaster pistol that ran on infinite ammo. What's really 
 interesting is the addition of weapon upgrades from your friendlies in the game. Your machine gun 
 gets a larger clip, your shotgun gets upgraded to using cartrages, and so on. The graphics in Quake 
 4 are better known as gore porn. The blood/ bloom combo effects are actually gorgeous, even to 
 the queezy and squeemish. The guns all carry with them a heavy load of great detail. The lightning 
 gun has talons on it's mane that rise up when you fire it. Your rail gun has dents in it's shell 
 on the top, that moves forward and backward as your rail recharges from a shot. Some closeups can 
 appear rather ugly however. The rocket you see in the chamber of the rocket launcher looks like 
 something a three year old drew. The visors on some of the soldiers are solid gold, but you can't 
 exactly see through solid gold can you? The enemies' designs are well done however. In fact, they're 
 probably the best looking factors of the game. They have a high amount of detail from their body's 
 wrinkles and wounds, to their armor and technology that has fused into their skin. The sound design 
 hasn't fallen short at all. The sound is great. The guns all sound unique and fantastic. Voice 
 acting is good all around with the exception of Lt. Voss. Every soldier you find will have a new 
 voice, and it wont be cheesy garbage. What's actually pretty interesting is, the amount of soldiers 
 you re-visit in the game, but that's aside from sound. The enemy also has some pretty wack battle 
 cries. ROOOOLAHLALH BLARRRRG LLKKKKKKKKKKKKKKK. The gameplay is simple. Nothing truly new. Your 
 run and gun gameplay, with some good additions here and there. The beginning hours of the game 
 will make you feel dull because it is so simple. But after a while, it will kick up on you, and 
 get interesting. Just don't be too tired when you play it. Multiplayer gameplay is a huge dissapointment. 
 Every Quake game so far was an amazing online multiplayer accomplishment. Quake 1 being the origin, 
 Quake II throwing in new weapons and new levels, and Quake III putting in a whole huge community 
 of ready and willing players, with some handy and skill requiring weapons. Quake 4's multiplayer 
 is almost the same as Quake III's except not as difficult. Far from it's difficulty. Pretty easy 
 in fact. Also, Quake 4's community is less than 1/3 of Quake III's. Surprised? Shouldn't be, nothing 
 is truly new in there. Some of the Quake III maps are even recycled for Quake 4. That's a shame 
 huh?
  
  To brass tacs, Quake 4 is a good Fps experience, but Id software has brought forth stronger and 
 more surprising accomplishments in gaming in the past, and Quake 4 doesn't bring much of the newer 
 content into play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: disciple_slave
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 9, 2006 10:20 pm PT
Review:  Quake 4 is a great upgrade from Quake 2, the last game in the series to have a storyline. The Stroggs 
 are back and they pack a punch.
  
  The graphics are awesome as long as you have a good system to back it up. Smooth edges and colorful 
 landscapes.
  
  Tons of Mods and or cheats. Some are very tempting to use during parts of the game. Including all 
 weapons and armor and health.
  
  The Final boss was a dissapointment only taking 3 minutes and really no challenge what so ever 
 as long as you know what to do.
  
  The ending leaves us open for a Sequal or at least a Quake 5. I pray ID comes out with another 
 Sequel to Doom before hand though. J 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slayer_Sam
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 4, 2006 2:53 am PT
Review:  Although it's been six years since the last Quake game, this epic series of first-person shooters 
 still has one of the biggest reputations in PC gaming history. id Software, creator of the first 
 three Quakes, handed off development of the fourth to the almost as eminent Raven, who came up 
 with a derivative but slick offering that impresses in both single and multiplayer modes. Skipping 
 totally over the plotless Quake III, Quake IV picks up the second's storyline. The evil alien Strogg, 
 undaunted by the loss of their leader at the hands of a brave, lone marine, are still fighting. 
 You're another marine, named Matthew Kane, and you start the game, Aliens -like, riding a dropship 
 into hostile territory. In what has to be the worst guarded plot twist in history (it's even written 
 on the box) Kane is, somewhat unpleasantly, turned into a Strogg a little way into the game. Thanks 
 to his enhanced speed and health, this adds some welcome variety to the conventional run-and-gun 
 gameplay. Beyond that, there's a decent number of surprises, like a few vehicles to play with and 
 a handful of boss encounters, but nothing that's wildly different to things you've seen in other 
 FPS titles. Although you do occasionally need a flashlight to navigate the odd sequence with low-light 
 levels, rest assured that Quake IV is a long way from Doom 3's gloom. Yes, you can use some weapons 
 without having to put down the flashlight, and no, you're not constantly being surprised by enemies 
 appearing out of nowhere. In short, all Quake IV shares with id's Doom 3 is its engine. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pspgames9
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 3, 2006 9:38 pm PT
Review:  Sharp single-player campaign; some of the best graphics around; weapon upgrades make you rethink 
 how you use your arsenal along the way. Overall, Quake 4 is kind of a weird case. The single-player 
 is great fun, but the uninspired multiplayer leaves a lot to be desired. The end result feels like 
 two different games. The single-player has a straightforward, no-nonsense approach to it that makes 
 a great showpiece for the Doom 3 engine, while the online portion feels like it fell out of a time 
 warp. If you're looking for Quake III Arena's deathmatch with better graphics and much higher system 
 requirements, this is your game. But if you're looking for some new ideas from the series that 
 made online deathmatch a big deal in the first place, you're barking up the wrong tree. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: masterch_sniper
Rating: 7.3
Date: Oct 22, 2006 12:35 pm PT
Review:  The gameplay is good, except at times it gets annoying and the multiplayer is poor and because 
 the game isn't very long it hurts it a lot. Also, at times you allies act stupid and stand right 
 in front of enemies, and when they get killed you end up losing.
  
  The good things are the price now is worth paying for (buy the special edition if possible) and 
 the graphics are fair but it doesn't have a lot of effects.
  
  Just a quick note for id, work up the graphics, like add hdr effects or at least bloom. Add reflections 
 and other high resolution tec. for the sequel, if you make one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Doom_HellKnight
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 19, 2006 12:28 pm PT
Review:  Id &amp; Raven bring us Quake IV, one of the best First Person Shooters of our time. I simply love 
 this game.
  Firstly you dont really need Quake II to get the whole story but it will definately help you understand 
 this better.
  The graphics in Quake IV are superb, thanks to the excellent Doom 3 engine. Everything looks realistic 
 and the lighting and shadows are excellent, again thanks to the Doom 3 engine. The Special effects 
 such as explosions look fantastic and its great seeing a dark indoor area light up due to the flames 
 from an explosion, although it does have a habit of looking a little bit 'plasticy' according to 
 some.
  This game sounds great too, I personally like how the strogg speak their own language during firefights 
 with your squad and yourself. Weapons and Explosions sound great and powerful (unlike the weak 
 sounding weapons of Doom 3) and the squad will shout insults at your enemy.
  Gameplay is great and actually quite varied due to the vehicle sequences with the tank, walker 
 and the bit where you fire from the truck during an escort mission. Mission objectives are varied 
 too, but if you dont like tight corridors and linear style gameplay, you may not find this game 
 enjoyable, though the corridors are not as tight as those of Doom 3, and Quake IV does feature 
 some outdoor areas. I wont really go on about multiplayer because for me, Single Player is where 
 this game is at.
  If you are a fan of First Person Shooters, you shouldn't be without this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pharomarc
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 19, 2006 8:40 am PT
Review:  Addictive action goodness. Quake is a fast paced straight forward action FPS. This is one FPS where 
 the action is fast and plenty. The developers concentrated on action, and none of the puzzles and 
 convoluted story a la HL2 which is a good change. I found my self just jumping in for a couple 
 of fights for 10 or 15 minutes every now and then. The story is cool, graphics are good, and action 
 is awesome. I especially loved the boss fights, and also the team mates you get to fight along 
 your side. Overall, it is a very worthy addition to the quake series, a definite buy for any FPS 
 fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gigastormz
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 18, 2006 7:42 am PT
Review:  Quake 4 may remind you of another famous Id Software game, ever heard of Doom 3? Well Quake 4 uses 
 the Doom 3 engine so it looks a lot similar to the latest addition to that legendary franchise. 
 The graphics are pretty much exaclty the same. I had to keep some of the settings low so I don't 
 know what it would look like on a top of the line system, but I bet it would look fantastic since 
 it looked very good on my system. The only thing you'd notice is some pixelation when you're looking 
 at something extremely close up. I played Quake 4 on a Dell Inspiron laptop with an Intel Dual 
 Core 1.6ghz processor, 256MB Radeon X1400 Mobility video card and 1GB of RAM. You play as Kane, 
 a soldier in the Rhino Squad. You are continually given orders to complete differnet objectives 
 to meet in each level. Sometimes you even have the help of other marines which is great in tight 
 spots. There is even a medic and a tech specialist that can heal your health and armor, respectively. 
 Generally the NPCs can hold their own but they can die pretty quick if you just stand there and 
 let them do all the work. There are a few escort missions but these aren't a problem. There are 
 10 different guns in the game, pistol w/unlimited ammo, machine gun, shotgun, hyperblaster, grenade 
 launcher, nailgun, rocket launcher, rail gun, lightning gun and the dark matter gun. The one major 
 improvement on Doom 3 is that the pistol and the machine gun both have flashlights built into the 
 guns. So you don't have to put your gun down and bring out a flashlight like you did in Doom 3. 
 This is an extremely welcomed change. I can understand why they did that in Doom 3 cause they were 
 trying to add to the horror atmosphere but it got annoying real quick. Quake is more of a straight 
 up fps action game. There isn't much atmosphere to it. Sure I've jumped now and then from a Strogg 
 jumping at you from around the corner but you don't get that eerie feeling you did in Doom. Quake 
 doesn't have that excellent ambient background music and the superb lighting effects. But you bought 
 the game to kill stuff right?
  
  The AI in the game is pretty good. The enemies will use cover, some will shoot grenades at you 
 to get you to come out of hiding, some charge at you and some just have homing missles/bullets 
 to get you. You definitely have to be moving around constantly. You can't just charge in and expect 
 to come out alive, becuase you will die, a lot. The most difficult time I had with the AI was one 
 room where you have to fight 8 of the strongest type of Strogg in the game all in a row with only 
 a few small health packs lying around. That took me almost an hour to get past. It got a little 
 frustrating but a welcome challenge. One of my only complaints with the single player game is that 
 the end bosses are a cakewalk compared to the room with 8 enemies that I just mentioned. I beat 
 them on the second try and only took a few minutes instead of the 1 hour it took to take down a 
 bunch of normal enemies.
  
  I did not play the multiplayer so I dont' know what that's like but the Gamespot review says it's 
 a bit of a dissapointment. As far as replay value goes, I didn't find any other then playing through 
 the game again on a different difficulty or just playing the multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Esmoro
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 17, 2006 5:36 am PT
Review:  If you have not picked this game up in the last year now is a good time to do it. It has a great 
 story and some cool visuals. (Corporal Kane goes through some messed up stuff!) The AI is fairly 
 standard for most of the characters, although later in the game some newer enemies seem a little 
 smarter than anything you have faced until then. The game flows fairly well from mission to mission. 
 There seems to be some pointless running around and back and forth stuff, but for the most part 
 the game flows quite well. The weapons are all pretty cool, but some of them seemed to be lacking 
 in some areas. There are scopes on some of them, but they almost hinder the gun's ability (especially 
 the assault rifle) . Some of the weapons seemed like they could use an alternate fire mode. There 
 is a good mix between dark hallways and well lit hangers, so you do not feel like you are always 
 peering into the darkness for the next jump scare . The game looks great on the best settings, 
 but if you cannot do that, it still looks pretty good on the lower settings. Some of the sounds 
 are just chilling and go well with the environments. The game play is smooth and Kane does not 
 feel like he is skating or going through sludge (as some games can do) .
  There is enough ammo around to keep you stocked, but you better have decent aim or you might run 
 out real quick.
  Conserve your ammo, Watch your back, and Take no Prisoners!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tommorgan88
Rating: 7.8
Date: Oct 16, 2006 7:54 am PT
Review:  Its a dangerous place, atop the pyramid of first-person royalty; although I hear the view is fantastic 
 - just ask the Quake series. A few years ago, Quake dominated all, but now times have changed. 
 Half-Life 2 rules supreme, and its becoming harder to make a shooter that stands out from all 
 the others. This leaves ID software, seeking to continue its gaming legacy, in a dilemma. Should 
 the latest version in one of its flagship franchises be a solitary first person scare-fest, tactical 
 team-based shooter, or vehicle-based futuristic war-sim? A combination of all three should impress, 
 right?
  Taking control of Matthew Kane, a marine thrown into the middle of a war thats been ongoing for 
 three games, youre invading the Strogg home world in an attempt to finally destroy the evil head 
 of the Strogg forces, the Makron. Just dont get too attached to the pixelated stubbly face of 
 your hero, as the Strogg have other plans. Possibly one of the most violent scenes in video games 
 history sees you undergoing a Stroggification procedure, all in first person. Particularly gruesome 
 is blacking out while a giant buzz saw takes off your legs, only to awake and see metallic legs 
 being attached to the bloody stumps. This is one case when an 18 certificate is truly deserved, 
 as the violence is graphic, unflinching and constant. Just like war in real life really, except 
 several hundred years in the future.
  While the shooting is standard fare for the Quake series, the vehicle sections feel unnecessary 
 and tacked on, although their inclusion has allowed Id to prove the Doom engine is capable of more 
 than dark corridors and shadows. Despite not having fancy lighting effects such as HDR, the quality 
 of the textures and the level of detail keep the game at the high end of PC graphics. More people 
 should have the hardware capable of playing it too, and ID has had the time to streamline the game 
 code to pull all the extra frames your graphics card can squeeze out. The outdoor scenery is spectacular 
 and helps break up the repetitive indoor sections. Some say Quake should be a solitary experience, 
 but the NPCs give the game a great deal of depth, as characters give a real sense of emotion, and 
 I found myself reloading sections when my squad-mates felt the burning pain of laser-death. My 
 advice is to go and buy Quake 4  its not life changing and youll probably end up disappointed. 
 If youve played Doom 3 youll have a faint feeling of d&eacute; j&agrave; vu. Youll probably curse 
 the voice acting before the opening movie is over. But through all this, youll be reminded of 
 the good old days of FPS, a time before vehicles and tactics, days spent shooting at indistinct 
 shapes in dark corridors with big guns. Innocent days. With poor sales forcing many shops to slash 
 prices youll probably get it cheap too. Just remember, youll be buying what is possibly the most 
 violent game available today. Dont have nightmares, kids 
::::::

::::::
UserName: parshanb
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 15, 2006 1:42 pm PT
Review:  Quake 4 is a great game by iD Software, the creators of Doom and Prey. Its sometimes scary like 
 aliens jump at you form know where, its fun to kill and kill aliens. This games conitinues the 
 story of Quake 2, but you dont have to know Quake 2. The aliens that attack you are called the 
 Stroggs. and You are playing a marine named Kane, and there are some other squads trying to help 
 you. The graohics are superb if you have the PC to run it. If you do you will enjoy this game a 
 lot. The gamplay if also pretty good. But the story and the missions gets a little repetitive and 
 boring buts still it is fun. It takes about 15-20 hours to finish in Normall. And the Multuplayer 
 is fun but its just like Quake 3.
  
  Overall:
  The Good : Fun Story, Great Graphics, great songs and sounds, you just want to keep playing. The 
 Bad: Multiplayer gets boring, needs high-end pc to run. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mark_03
Rating: 8.4
Date: Oct 9, 2006 7:18 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Intense fast paced single player mode, with a load of awsome weapons and upgrades and 
 simply out standing sci fi graphics. The single player mode offers a lot of fun, with around 12 
 hours of gameplay. The multiplayer is great the gsame as qauke 3 arena, just with updated more 
 realistic graphics. The indoor sqaud based shoot out are awsome, and their game never stops in 
 the action department.
  
  The Bad: The single player campaign is rather short and doesn't offer a lot of replay value. The 
 gameplay can get quite repetitive at times. The vechicle orientated parts with in the game are 
 really dull and boring. As the outdoor enviorments looks real dull and plain. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lamx30108200
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 21, 2007 8:39 am PT
Review:  First thing first, this game, on the graphic side, is just perfect. The indoor graphics are the 
 best i've seen to date. Outdoor graphics look fake though, but the indoor environments are so great 
 that a 10 is appropriate even though outdoors are crappy. Anyways, there not many outdoor sections 
 in this game. On the gameplay side, its your usual fun action-pack run and gun style.. so you like 
 it or not. But there's more... now you have squad mate that are surprisingly helpful in tough situations. 
 Speaking of how NPC interact, the enemy A. I is not a big deal... but in fast action run and gun 
 games, i'm not really demanding on this aspect. One thing that I particularly liked in this game 
 is the fact that there a lots of ammo for the most powerful guns so compared to other games (ex: 
 Doom 3) you can use them not only on bosses but on normal enemies when it gets too crowed. Probably 
 the aspect of this game that I like the best with the graphic aspect, is the story. The story just 
 kept me captivated by the game and with the awesome graphics and environments, it made the story 
 easier to follow. Compared to other fps run and gun style, i don't give much attention to the story 
 and the objectives cause the stories are often inexistent or boring, so i end up killing every 
 one in the room, go to the other room kill every one... and on and on, 'till the game ends. But 
 for this one, the story kept me focused on my objectives in order to accomplish the mission... which 
 of course added points to the fun factor. Sound:
  Awesome, give a feeling to the environments and levels with the mechanic and pressure sounds
 
  
  I was'nt expecting too much from this game and I did'nt even knew there was a twist in the story 
 since i did'nt red the previews and reviews, so maybe this is why i enjoyed it so much, so if you're 
 like me and was on the moon for a couple a months when it was released, i urged you to get this 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: notmelol
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 29, 2006 3:53 pm PT
Review:  Quake 4 is real good. If you have played quake 2 you would defenetly need it. It starts off just 
 were quake 2 left off; A marine had killed the makron.
  
  The graphics in Quake 4 are just..... well... anyhting i can say is just plain awesome!!!! iI you 
 have a good new high end machine like me youll see the true beauty of Quake 4 with no lag! I could 
 just sitt in front of my screen and watch the graphics for hours being able to play is a bonus! 
 The characters have endless detail and like my mother commented they look so real! Quake 4 is awesome 
 even small bolts and nails are visible. Its truly awesome where computer graphics is going and 
 Doom 3 and Quake 4 is the showcase of that.
  
  The sound in Quake 4 is top notch. First of all the reloading actually sounds real for once! There 
 been so many fake reloading sound sin computer games its sad. But finally now Quake 4 and Doom 
 3 have shown what games can do. Really good sound effects too. The monsters in the game make.. 
 Monster like sounds which sound awesome especially if you got surround sound or good headphones. 
 The Sound in Quake and many other games is a huge part of the game. An expert player can sue sound 
 to give them that extra reflex or edge. . ou can hear enemies creep up if there not careful and 
 so on. So here Quake 4 does a great job.
  
  Good
  -Graphics
  -Sound
  -Gameplay
  
  The BAD:
  Multiplayer
  People only not that much! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matrixman03
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 28, 2006 5:59 pm PT
Review:  I finally picked this game up after waiting this long. I'm a big fan of Doom 3 and it was great 
 to see the D3 engine back in action. Not only does this game look fanastic, it plays well too. 
 The story is very immersive and the dialogue from all the soldiers makes you feel like you're there. 
 The team based combat is fun when it's available. I have to admit I didn't enjoy going solo towards 
 the end of the game because it just felt like a less scary version of doom 3. In terms of difficulty 
 I found that this game wasn't easy at all. In Doom all you have to do is shift direction to avoid 
 fire ball attacks. In this game the strogg have strong weapons which on constantly blasting at 
 you. Save and save often for this one.
  
  I also enjoyed the weapons much more in this game. Quake has a well rounded arsenal of guns that 
 have their advantages in certain situations. The only negative for me was that I hardly used the 
 shotgun when the game progressed. In D3 the shotgun was essential, but in this game it's nearly 
 impossible to engage in close range combat. Overall if you are a FPS fan in general and you have 
 the PC to run this baby... then it's a must buy. On ultra settings this is by far the best looking 
 FPS I've ever played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spiderman120988
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 19, 2008 2:01 pm PT
Review:  I've never played the Quake games, so when I saw Quake 4 being released, I said why not try it 
 out? This is a great game, with a good science fiction storyline and some of the best graphics 
 I've ever seen. Picking up from Quake 2, you play as Matthew Kane, the new guy assigned to Rhino 
 Squad where Humanity is embroiled into a war with a malevolent alien race known as the Strogg. 
 With the destruction of the Makron, Humanity is now pushing into the Strogg home planet and plan 
 to stop them once and for all. That's easier said then done as you'll face numerous Strogg and 
 by the middle of the game, you'll experience a life changing event. Basically you BECOME a Strogg 
 and to defeat the enemy, you must become the enemy! The single-player experience is great due to 
 its length; you'll be on your own most of the time but you'll also battle with your squadmates. 
 The game utilizes the Doom 3 engine so everything looks incredibly detailed at Ultra Quality, provided 
 you exceed the recommended requirements. Sound is also great with top notch voice acting, giving 
 it a Hollywood style feel. The action music is loud and pulse pounding, making you feel like you're 
 Rambo when you're plowing through so many Strogg. There's a large collection of weaponry available 
 and throughout the game you'll get different modifications added to each weapon such as extended 
 clips or allowing you to use homing nails with your Nail Gun. The Dark Matter Gun, however, seems 
 to be a rip-off from Doom 3's BFG 9000 but nonetheless, it's incredibly powerful and will wipe 
 out most of the weaker enemies. The game is a bit of on old-school First-Person Shooter like Doom 
 3 but anybody who plays it should have a good time. Currently, the game retails for $9.99 so really, 
 you're getting a lot of content for such a low price. There's also multiplayer featuring Quake 
 III Arena style gameplay, which should keep you coming back. Before I forget, I must remind you 
 to get the PC version as the Xbox 360 version lags like hell based on player input. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: r1crawford
Rating: 8.3
Date: Sep 26, 2006 2:16 pm PT
Review:  For me this game is everything DOOM 3 should have been. A top quality single player game, that 
 doesn't feel repetitive, has a more varied journey, and is just as 'jumpy/scary' and yet is just 
 as much fun.
  
  The weapons, the idea of alien enemies, the look, and even the feel of the game is very much like 
 DOOM 3. But it's not as confined as DOOM 3, a lot less closed spaces, and a few trips in tanks 
 and levels at mounted weapons.
  
  I haven't played the muliplayer yet, so I can't complain nor give it any credit. GS has condemed 
 it, but I'll try it and update this at another stage. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ziegd
Rating: 7.2
Date: Nov 3, 2006 1:23 pm PT
Review:  That about sums up the Quake 4 experience. The story is so thin and the game so linear, you may 
 as well strap yourself to a motorized hand cart on a track and get ready to slug your way down 
 a set of corridors, locate the hidden stash of ammo and power-ups, then slug your way up the next 
 set of corridors... rinse and repeat. The developers should have spent less money trying to set 
 a new standard for graphics, and used it to hire some second-rate Hollywood screen writers to come 
 up with a feasible reason for the player to endure all this abuse. The one cool innovation that 
 was introduced (the Stroggification process) was dramatically rolled out as a teaser, then left 
 hanging like pink panties on a clothes line... a promise of something really sexy that goes unfulfilled. 
 And that's a real tragedy, because they could have done so much with this imaginative concept, 
 but failed to take advantage of it.
  
  That's not to say that Quake 4 has no redeeming qualities. Visually, it IS spectacular, and the 
 non-stop combat sequences are so frenetic, it's like being in an extended version of the second 
 Aliens movie. But unfortunately, that's about as good as it gets. On a side note, I DO feel compelled 
 to mention the squad-based elements in this production. One of my biggest pet peeves about games 
 that provide team-mates is the fact that, more often than not, your allies can do more to contribute 
 to your demise than the enemy you're fighting, and to id's credit, they have introduced AI squad 
 members that actually get out of your way... kudos for that.
  
  Bottom line, I was simply left with too much of a been there, done that feeling to give Quake 4 
 the high marks the developers were hoping for. Sure, it looks great, the combat is tough and non-stop, 
 and if that's what you're looking for, then Quake 4 is definitely your brand. But personally, I 
 think a lot of gamers have gotten past the ooh, ahh, cool explosions phase, and are looking for 
 a more engaging story with at least some semblance of a plot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: behony
Rating: 9.1
Date: Sep 21, 2006 11:24 am PT
Review:  for all those who love the quake franchise, this is very satisfying. the graphics are great but 
 the outside back-ground looks bad. like a jpeg placed on a polygon plane. it feels like an indoor 
 arena. aside from that, they took all the great things from doom 3 and fixed the bad and called 
 it quake 4. if you have played doom 3 then you know that it is too repetitive and the guns just 
 plane suck. in Q4 you go from action to action with many verities of settings. some action packed 
 battles, space flight to creepy zombie filled labyrinths of blood and gore, and oh yes they did 
 not hold back on the gore. very bloody very gory. the story is a bit cheesy and lacks a certain 
 element. it is very put together and there is really not much suspense.
  some of the combat is a bit boring like a shooting gallery but it makes up for it in other sequences.
 
  
  i say give it a shot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Charlie2688
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 20, 2006 9:27 pm PT
Review:  Since the original Quake was lunched in 1996 it became an icon of FPS around the world, this time 
 around we take a look at the latest installment of the franchise Quake 4. Lets start by looking 
 at the factors that make this game so great
  
  Gameplay: This time we pick up the story of Quake II were it left off, after a single marine infiltrated 
 the enemy lines, sabotaged the whole Strogg infrastructure and killed the Makron leader, the earth 
 forces decide to land a final strike against the Strogg home planet and end the war. This time 
 you play as Matthew Kane a member of the elite Rhino Squad. In Quake 4 you wont fight alone anymore 
 you will be accompanied by different soldiers giving team effort a more important role, your teammates 
 will actually be effective and reliable even in the worst situations. As usual the guns from previous 
 Quake games have been implemented in this game but this time around will be even more useful than 
 in previous games due to the fact that they can be upgraded to provide better and more varied results, 
 also the guns will have a tactical use making some guns more effective against a specific type 
 of enemy in a specific situation making the players weapon selection a more crucial role. The gameplay 
 wont be limited to walking around on foot all the time, this time you can use different vehicles 
 to help you, from hovertanks to powerful mech walkers that will provide very intense moments. The 
 action in this game starts slow with dark claustrophobic corridors and enemies jumping from the 
 shadows to later throwing you to outdoors scenarios with intense massive battles. As in tradition 
 to Quake II the progress of the game and achieving your goals actually feels satisfying and gives 
 a sense of accomplishment that very few games these days provide.
  
  Graphics: The game simply looks spectacular; using the Doom 3 engine the developers were able to 
 capture all the brutality of the Quake world and took it to the next level. The scenarios simply 
 look amazing and completely realistic in par of what you would expect of the Strogg, every installation 
 wont look like the previous one, each one of them looks exactly as an installation of that sort 
 should look like making the immersion impressive. The enemies make a triumphant return from Quake 
 II but with a brilliant visual upgrade, while most of the classic enemies will retain their original 
 appearance but with visual improvements others will have a more radical make over and to keep up 
 even more deadly enemies have been added to increase the challenge. As all fans know Quake is known 
 for being a gory FPS, Quake 4 boost even more gory scenarios, enemies and situations that will 
 soften even the most veteran players stomach.
  
  Sound: A game of Quakes caliber needs to have good audio and Quake 4 wont disappoint. The game 
 has been given a sound track that perfectly fits its hectic combat style that is constantly changing 
 depending on the scenario you are currently on, from the dark corridors to the outdoor battles. 
 Also the voice acting is impressive containing some voices that will result familiar and completely 
 realistic. While the enemies will continue to use their native Strogg language the still strikes 
 fear even in the more experienced players.
  
  Value: The campaign against the Strogg wont be easy nor shot. The game is pretty lengthy and will 
 keep even the most demanding FPS fans satisfied. Quake 4 constantly becomes more demanding of the 
 player as it advances making it harder and more rewarding to complete.
  
  At the end Quake 4 continues the legacy of the other Quake games by proving an excellent quality 
 game that will not disappoint and that is a must buy for Quake fans and FPS fans alike. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deus_ex_2000
Rating: 8.3
Date: Sep 12, 2006 11:47 pm PT
Review:  The story of Quake 4 continues the events of Quake 2 and it takes place (according to the developers) 
 after a few hours or a day when the lone marine defeats the Makron in Quake 2. This game feels 
 like a war of the worlds 'coz you're in an alien planet, fighting their forces in huge battles 
 and the action is overwhelming. You'll most of the time fight alongside your comrades. The battles 
 takes place in huge outdoor levels and also in small, claustrophobic corridors, remeniscent of 
 Doom 3. The gameplay is intense and very admirable. Its pulse pounding. The graphics, though running 
 on the Doom 3 engine, is more advanced. The lighting is better and the effects are more dramatic. 
 There's also a vast improvement in the character models compared to Doom 3. The sounds are amazing. 
 The weapon sounds are good, from the rusty rifle sounds to super smooth sounds of the rail gun. 
 It seems perfect and satisfying. The gameplay feels similiar to Call of Duty 'coz the battles are 
 large and the comrades show real emotion. The action is intense and sometimes, too intense. There 
 are vehicles in a few levels but it lasts for a short time, but its fun while it lasts. The levels, 
 though linear, feel different every time. After certain missions are done, you get back onto your 
 mothership where you can explore it and see the wonderful emotions the other marines show, when 
 you talk to them, but there's very little you can do here. Your squadmates are clever and actually 
 fight better than you sometimes. They are very aware of the situation and fight accordingly. SOme 
 of them like the medic can heal you and the engineer can repair your armor. The engineer can also 
 upgrade your weapons to inflict more damage, like modding a rocket launcher to fire 3 rounds at 
 a time, or adding a scope to the nail gun to fire homing nails. The multiplayer feels very similiar 
 to the awesome Quake 3 style. Its fun, the community is huge and the game feels perfect online 
 as well. The classic modes are available as well. So overall, a wonderful game which will last 
 in your memory for a long long time. Well done ID, once again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xtreme_chief
Rating: 9.1
Date: Sep 11, 2006 12:22 am PT
Review:  I am really surprised about this game from ID software. I thought it would be just like Doom 3 
 with old school gameplay but it is in a lot of ways even better than Doom 3. The atmosphere is 
 amazing when you put the game's graphics on ultra high which most computers can't take on but my 
 computer took it on like an angel on fire and I couldn't believe my eyes. Well now I will get on 
 to the gameplay. The weapon controls are exactly the same as Doom 3 but the big improvement is 
 that the designers put the torch onto the machine gun which is very useful when fire fights come 
 to dark places.
  
  The character design is perfect and the talking goes on very well with the dialog of the marines. 
 Quake 4 is a game with really great squad based action like in Ghost Recon Advanced Warfare but 
 you can survive a lot easier in firefights in Quake 4. Level designing is simple like in Doom 3 
 but offers bigger battle areas which is an obvious thing in a humans vs aliens wargame. Acting 
 is great especially with that guy from Prison Break doing the voice of Strauss the armor fixer. 
 The game's lengh is mild which is a little bit short and not as long as Doom 3 which in some ways 
 is a good thing. Oh and the game is very easy which is also a good thing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StephenHu
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 9, 2006 8:01 pm PT
Review:  This game had good scipted scenes and great graphics.
  
  The weapons were very varied and fun to fire, the upgrades made you go back to previous guns you 
 had so no guns that were obsolete,
  the game took about 9 hours to beat. I havent tried the multiplayer so i can't judge that. The 
 gameplay is frantic and fast, had some basic puzzles and vehicle sequences. The AI could've been 
 a little better than just standing there, but sometimes they do take cover behind barrels or walls. 
 Voice acting was great and the bosses were huge and fun to fight. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: n3kumar
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 27, 2007 5:30 am PT
Review:  Single-handedly the best game I've ever played. Period (.) I've mucked about with shedloads of 
 games from many different genres, but I've never come across anything like this. Be warned - it's 
 not perfect. It's gripping. It's suspenseful. It's gorgeous. It's thrilling. But it's not perfect. 
 My main qualm with it (single-player mode) was that after it was over, I wanted a brand spanking 
 new storyline, new uncharted territory. But it was over. I ache for more. The level of character 
 interaction throughout the single-player game is phenomenal. Not necessarily intensely complex, 
 but definately captivating. You really feel you are Corp. Matthew Kane. When you interact with 
 Voss, Cortez, Strauss, and the others, you really develop your own impressions of their individual 
 personalities. And I find that enthralling in a gaming genre that has been dumbed down to ridiculous 
 levels.
  
  Sure, there's plenty of room for improvement. Multiplayer's perhaps not as top-notch as it should 
 be, (considering Quake III set the bar for its successor's expectations) . Some of the puzzles could 
 be more complex, or a tad more imaginative. The missions during the middle of the SP campaign could 
 be more varied and less similar to one another...
  
  But it's bloody amazing.
  
  So just buy it, play it, and keep your jaw from hanging. If you can. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eatpepsi
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 8, 2006 11:46 pm PT
Review:  Quake 4 is one of those rare games that enable you to experience sheer fun and scare at the very 
 same time.
  
  What amuses you about the game is that even though it utilizes the same 2 year old doom3 engine, 
 yet it shares only this similarity and takes a total departure from the John Carmack brain child 
  Doom3. The result is an amazing game with gripping action and an unbelievable background score.
 
  
  The game takes off from where Quake 2 left off. Youre a lonely HERO fighting your way to save 
 the earth yet again from the clutches on an evil (stereotypically) alien race trying desperately 
 to erase mankind from the face of the universe.
  
  The game is a typical run and gun shooter with occasional button pressing, lift calling, it mostly 
 has a linear game play .The great thing about it is that when you are just about to leave the game 
 for tomorrow due to the monotonous run and gun, the game changes the pace and to your surprise, 
 amazes you yet again with new plot and game play tactics.
  
  Considering Quake 4 as a system HOG is an understatement. The Doom 3 engine is so well programmed 
 that even a year old PC with AGP solution and a mediocre amount of RAM and processing Power doesnt 
 let the fun tone down with the visuals. But dont let its compatibility fool you, because if youre 
 fortunate and have an Enthusiast level PC in your room, you are surely in for a treat.
  
  The visuals are stunning and the effects are well rendered .What separates this from Doom 3 is 
 the utilization of a broader color palette. The game is beautiful to look at. With the recent inclusion 
 of SMP, the quake 4 engine utilizes multiple cores to push the frame rates even further. So if 
 u have a dual core CPU you are surely going to notice an advantage at least up to 1280x1024, above 
 that the game is still GPU limited.
  
  Considering you have played Doom 3 and my constant comparison of that game with Quake 4 I think 
 its safe to say that you would have guessed by now that the environment is mostly packed with 
 large machinery and wheels and knobs moving constantly producing some sinister product to destroy 
 humans.
  
  The game puts you in some vehicles a few times with unlimited ammo and hordes of aliens to test 
 your trigger at. These parts of the game are a bit less for my taste, but they do come late in 
 the game, which is sad, because its very nice to play those scenarios.
  
  What sparks the game into light is the background score, which amiably gives you the sense of a 
 large scale attack and ignites passion and emotions just in the right doses at the right moments 
 of the game. The score is well complimented with occasional radio chatter and your squad chats. 
 It just adds to the realism the game has already created and delivered perfectly!
  
  The game has a range of difficulty levels to choose from. An average FPS player wont have a hard 
 time gunning the game down in 10-12Hrs at moderate difficulty. The game upgrades some of your weapons 
 and adds some new ones couple of times through the game, which more than makes a decent pack of 
 weapons for you to fight with.
  
  The opponents also jump the bar to keep you busy in the not so great ire fights. By not so great 
 I mean nothing amazing and flashy as FEAR but nice in its own way. The multiplayer of the game 
 is not something brave, but does the job to make your moneys worth. It wont be long before you 
 just drop it and move to games like BF2 and UT2k4.
  
  The whole feel to the game is a bit unbalanced, the guns are loud and fun to fire, but lack that 
 definite punch. Theres just not enough crank in the shots to pound the aliens away (you will notice 
 that in games like Far Cry and FEAR) . They take the shots stationary and dont even budge. I think 
 that is a one big let down I felt after playing the other shooters incorporating intensive rag-doll 
  FEAR.
  
  Overall, if you like FPS and have endure the doom of DOOM 3, then I guarantee you that the game 
 not only holds the key to your fun, but also doubles as a great benchmark tool for your PC. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: apocmessiah
Rating: 7.7
Date: Aug 30, 2006 4:48 am PT
Review:  This game adds the playability and better showcases the graphics that was missing from Doom 3. 
 Quake 4 has a feel of Starship Troopers (the movie not the game, which was poor) and the old run 
 and gun is expertly executed in this title. While it adds nothing new to the FPS it certainly makes 
 up for it in a polished updated version of the genre that will entertain for more than a few hours. 
 The atmosphere is enhanced by the marines around you which gets rid of the lonesome feeling you 
 get when playing some fps, while not as full bodied as the call of duty titles, there is an essence 
 that you're not the only one fighting this war. The enemies are intelligent, and will dodge fire 
 and you're allies, the marines, are not the cannon fodder that normally populate these types of 
 games. For my liking there still isn't enough open air combat, but I'm not far into the game as 
 yet, and that could change.... but I'm beginning to think thats unlikely.
  
  It's a game thats easy to pick up, as it follows the familiar conventions of FPS with no extra 
 finicky controls, with no lean or prone. This is the fast food of gaming, no substance to it, but 
 man is it good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wanderlust_85
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 27, 2006 7:22 pm PT
Review:  for some strange reason this game appealed to me more than doom 3.... still thinking about any 
 similarilites. The very first look and you probabaly find yourself busily thinking about what does 
 these two games have in common.
  quake 4 has tried to do something different this time. insted of the usual capture the flang contest 
 , death matches stc this time the game has s tory line to it. the bottom line as it remained since 
 the first successful game is that just pick up the gun and drill all the bullents in the body of 
 your enemy... or just pick up a frag grenade and see the bodies torn apart follwoed by its after 
 affects. this time even one can say to an extent there is much of a team approach even though most 
 of the time you will be the one sweeting the terran of any alien scum.
  the graphic of this game is superb follwed by the sound quality. the sound of all those heay guns 
 firing... the boms blasting reververating the surroundings with is after effect is just music to 
 my ears. everything about the game is good.
  to cut a long story short.
  
  PLAY IT TO BELIEVE IT 
::::::

::::::
UserName: erichttp
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 25, 2006 2:30 pm PT
Review:  Has a very nice engine, amazing graphics, and is just really addicting. Sometimes though, I feel 
 like they improvised the whole plot. Instead making a big script they just made it up as they went 
 along. And the way they give you the weapons. Quake 4 gives you almost all the weapons at the very 
 beggining of the game. This can get annoying. Its to keep getting upgrades for the , but its not 
 enough to keep you satisfide. But I would still say Quake 4 is a great game and I strongly recomend 
 it. This is a great game for any fps fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: inverted720
Rating: 5.6
Date: Aug 19, 2006 10:56 pm PT
Review:  The subject tells it all. I expected much more from Raven software which has always been groundbreaking 
 even if sometimes they fail. This game basically takes a few fun things from Doom + Halflife + 
 Halo and expect PC Gamers to be fully satisfied. Where did Ravensofts innovation go? Maybe PC Game 
 developers will come work for us again someday... Until then, expect allot more watered down console 
 games. 
  The single player is very well scripted, but the gameplay is sooooooo repetative. There is one 
 game convention and it is used repeatedly throughout the entire game. 1. Meet up with team 2. Go 
 open a door for the team 3. Meet back up with the team 4. Go back to step 1... The game is worth 
 playing through once, then sell your copy on ebay or something. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mercypoo
Rating: 7.8
Date: Aug 19, 2006 1:39 am PT
Review:  The "Quake" name itself has been defining the first person shooter genre for years. Quake 1 and 
 2 did an amazing job of blending single player action with multiplayer mayhem, and Quake 3 continued 
 to strive in multiplayer excellence. The fourth game in the series has finally arrived, promising 
 both an intense and beautiful single player campaign as well as the same multiplayer feel that 
 players have come to know and love. Both of these seem to have been held true, but repetitiveness 
 and an all too familiar and inactive online scene take away from the game's otherwise satisfying 
 feel.
  
  Quake 4 picks up where Quake 2 left off. The battle between humans and the strogg seems to be within 
 its closing chapters, and as Corporal Matthew Kane, it is your task to help put an end to the conflict 
 once and for all. The fight will not be easy, as indicated by the opening scenes. Your ship is 
 wrecked far from your intended drop zone, squads are scattered, and dead and injured soldiers fill 
 your view in nearly every direction. You eventually regroup with your squad and get back to the 
 task of taking the fight to the strogg, at which point the plot continues to get thicker and more 
 intense.
  
  As thick as the story seems from the beginning, the action is actually rather straight-forward 
 and simple, usually following the "get from point-A to point-B while blasting everything in between" 
 format. Though definitely done before, this layout actually provides a very entertaining playground, 
 complete with weapons that you'll enjoy firing and an enemy force that you'll love killing.
  
  The control scheme is completely yours to rework, and you will feel comfortable with them almost 
 right away. The sound is also well done. Guns all blaze with an original bite, the music score 
 adds tension where it is needed, and the strogg all fall with a satisfying moan. 
  
  Of course, the real highlight of the newest Quake game is it's graphics. This time around, developers 
 chose to use the same engine that made Doom 3 sparkle. 
  
  As a side note, for those who haven't played Doom 3 before, the game suffered from an intense case 
 of repetitiveness. Players were annoyed with the rarely changing environment consisting of futuristic, 
 metal plated walls that created corridor after dark corridor.
  
  The corridors make a (shining?) return in Quake 4, especially in the later levels of the game. 
 You will likely find yourself impatiently sighing at the idea of going through level after level 
 of poorly lit hallways and facilities, constantly searching for the next set of unlocked doors. 
 Luckily, the relentless enemy onslaught will keep you awake and on the edge of your seat, even 
 if the environment is not capable of doing so.
  
  To the game's credit, there were attempts made to make the gameplay seem fresh. Several vehicle 
 oriented levels give you the ability to make big booms with big guns, and there is even a segment 
 of a level in which you must survive by making timed moves from conveyor belt to conveyor belt 
 while in a strogg facility. 
  
  Of course, the single player game was intended to be only a portion of the value found in Quake 
 4. The multiplayer portion of the game was created with confidence that the massive Quake community 
 would make one giant switch to the newest installment. However, it is incredibly obvious that this 
 is not the case from the moment that you view the list of available online servers. Only a few 
 hundred servers are available to play on, and those existing servers generally host only a handful 
 of players, at best. The multiplayer community has not taken in Quake 4 with open arms, and with 
 good reason. The multiplayer game only updates the graphics and feel of the Quake 3 game, which 
 is not necessarily a bad thing. However, considering the availability to continue playing Quake 
 3 on modern systems as well as the more innovative multiplayer modes found in more recent games, 
 the online aspect of Quake 4 seems hardly worth more than an occasional 15 minute fling.
  
  All things being considered, the good does outweigh the bad. As long as you're not expecting a 
 constantly fresh feel in either the single player or multiplayer modes, you're going to enjoy this 
 game. Its gameplay provides an intense, no B. S. experience at bare minimum, and at a bargain price 
 on most retail shelves, first person fans will find it worth every last penny.
  
  -Merc Moses 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Viper_con
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 16, 2006 11:14 am PT
Review:  I would have to say that the release day was a little crappy... (Same time frame as Doom3) . I've 
 had this game since released, but happened to have Doom3 installed first... needless to say knowing 
 that they both run off of the same engine, made me very skeptical about installing Quake 4.
  
  However, I actually installed it last week, and must say that it is much better than the Doom3 
 release.
  
  Much cloder to the actual story line of the Quake series. This is a game well worth the wait.
 
  
  Great graphics, great physics, terrific gameplay. If you haven't purchased this game yet.... run 
 to the store and get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Or-G
Rating: 7.8
Date: Aug 11, 2006 8:51 pm PT
Review:  This game took me approximately 12 hours to complete, on hard difficulty. Now, without further 
 ado, heres my review of Quake 4:
  
  Contents:
  
  Introduction/Story
  Gameplay
  Graphics
  Sound
  Artificial Intelligence
  Pros/Cons
  Conclusion
  
  Introduction/Story 
 6/10
  
  Quake 4 takes place in the future at an alien planet. It starts off with you seeing pieces of your 
 comrades floating around in space, and then you crash-land at some unknown planet, where you regroup 
 with your fellow marines. Basically, your mission is to gain control over the territory and rid 
 the planet of aliens. IMO, the story is one of the weaker parts of this game. Basically, youre 
 only objective is to shoot, although sometimes, with logic behind it. Although, what you do throughout 
 the game is what you would probably do in real life, which is shoot the crap out of your enemies, 
 but I still feel that they couldve made a stronger story. The game really picks up when youre 
 three quarters through the game, but Im not going to spoil that for you.
  
  Gameplay 9/10
  
  There isnt really much to say gameplay-wise. Its your basic run and gun 
 shooter. If youve played Doom 3 then you will find that this game is almost exactly like that, 
 it is the same engine after all, just add vehicles and much more open spaces, ultimately leading 
 to a much better experience than that of Doom 3s.
  For those of you that havent played Doom 3, this game uses the usual health bar and armour. There 
 are a few med packs scattered throughout the levels. The guns in this game, I felt were extremely 
 weak and nothing new. When you were shooting them they just didnt feel at all powerful or entranced 
 you in any way. I preferred that of Doom 3s much more, even though they were practically the same. 
 In some games, you really enjoy running around shooting things with your favourite weapon, you 
 won't really feel that here. I'm sure if the sound was worked on for the shooting then the weapons 
 would seem a lot better. Another thing is, that there isn't really much variety in them, maybe 
 around five actual useable weapons.
  Throughout levels, there are computers that can do certain tasks for you, ranging from healing 
 to opening doors to operating cranes and etc I liked how when you went over it you could see a 
 mouse pointer over the little screen and you can press the option you want. Nothing big, but I 
 prefer it much more than the usual method of pressing a button that can only do one task, such 
 as open a door.
  As I had previously mentioned, the game introduces vehicles. They range from tanks to mechs to 
 flying bombing things. They are all a blast to drive, literally. Each vehicle has at least two 
 modes of fire. For instance, the tank will have the usual big blast from the turret and the machine 
 gun. Its always fun plowing down a big wall of enemies with a machine gun.
  
  Graphics 10/10
  
  As Ive previously mentioned, Quake 4 runs on the Doom 3 engine, although 
 it has a few touch ups here and there. Set on ultra-high settings, the graphics are superb. The 
 character models and environments all looked extremely well and pleasant to the eye. The only con 
 I could really think of is that when you shoot some objects, their decals wont be proper. Like, 
 one time I shot a dead guy underneath a blanket and it made the same decal you would get from shooting 
 a concrete wall, but you would barely notice something like that, I was just playing around shooting 
 random objects at the time and happened to find that interesting.
  The gun models and vehicle models all look great. I especially liked the many actions and animations 
 the weapons have, such as the big ball of black matter swirling around in the dark matter gun or 
 the ammo count and mode of fire display on some of the displays of the guns.
  The indoor environments looked just like a carbon copy of Doom 3, maybe slightly less narrow hallways 
 though, still, for me, its not much of a problem. The outdoor environments were very well made 
 too. Such as dirt and sand blowing in the air as wind blew by and etc
  
  Sound 9/10
  
  It all sounded like it should, sometimes even better. If outside, you could hear the wind blow 
 by, or the crackling of your foot crushing sand underneath you. Indoors, you could hear the many 
 machines all around you working and doing their thing. The only real concern I have, is that all 
 of the weapons sound extremely underpowered and didnt make shooting a gun much fun at all. As 
 I previously mentioned, I'm sure that if the sound were worked on the whole shooting thing would 
 be a lot more memorable.
  
  Artificial Intelligence 9.5/10
  
  Theres not much to say. Enemies would take cover when under fire, peek out from corners, or go 
 hide when injured. Sometimes, your enemies would even walk over to health machines and get themselves 
 healed. Your fellow marines would do many of the same things, but there arent too many missions 
 when youre fighting along side them. Sometimes they would do stupid things such as shoot at a 
 wall when the enemy was behind it, giving away their position, but then again ours also. If the 
 aliens or marines would hear footsteps or sounds of the enemy they would become more cautious and 
 alert, making it much harder to sneak past them. Note: This was played on hard difficulty, so if 
 you are playing on a different difficulty level your experience may be different.
  
  Pros
  -great graphics
  -cool vehicles
  -great turn of events near the end
  -nice AI
  
 -a lot like doom 3
  
  Cons
  -weapons sucked!
  -too much like doom 3
  
  Conclusion
  
  If you liked Doom 3, then you will definitely enjoy this game, since its practically 
 the same thing. If youre a fan of fps, sci-fi especially then I also recommend you pick this game 
 up. Once again, if the weapons were better, I wouldve enjoyed this game MUCH more. Although I 
 have given this game a pretty high rating, I didn't quite find it to be all that great, or anything 
 new. It was just the same old running around and shooting random things, sure there were some interesting 
 sequences, but it was all done a million times already, that's just my opinion anyway.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sadshadow
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 8, 2006 1:54 pm PT
Review:  Well... I just finished this game:
  
  Graphics: AWESOME, well done with the Nvidia Gforce 6600 XT 128 MB agp.
  
  the details are 
 sweet, something i didnt liked was corners, i dunno , they are too sharpy... not like doom3
  
  Sounds: Always the same voice over and over and over.. the weapons FxS are cool, the antimater 
 one ruls :D
  
  Controls.. FPS.. nothing more to say..
  
  In other words, Q4 is good, the part where you are transformed to a blorg o something like that 
 its COOOOOOOOOOL!! the paaaaaaaaaain
  
  *spoilers*
  
  THE END!! NO WAY WAS SO EASY!!! THE LAST BOSS!!! 
  
  I hoped something better... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mryupcarlseen
Rating: 8.1
Date: Aug 5, 2006 7:13 pm PT
Review:  If you looking for a quick, thoughtless, shoot the same monsters all the time semi-thriller then 
 this is your game. Sloth from "The Goonies" would love the action. The graphics are top notch, 
 the gameplay is par, the storyline is too shallow for Jerry Bruckheimer, and the weapons are exceedingly 
 dull and uninspired. As a huge fan of ID and there contributions to gaming, this game (with exception 
 of the graphics) was a total let down. It's worth playing and buying, but don't get your hopes 
 up. After playing it for 6 hours or so, it becomes about as fun as an insurance seminar. You'll 
 buy it, play it, have a semi-good time, put it on the shelf, and then a year later while dusting 
 you'll find it and think to yourself "Oh ya. I have this game". 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Redgarl
Rating: 7.8
Date: Aug 3, 2006 5:06 pm PT
Review:  I must admit that I was a huge fan of Jedi Knight 2. The PC game was incredible with the last patch, 
 but Jedi Academy came. It went went from heaven to hell. So does Quake 4 really prove anything?
 
  
  I must say that it is a mixed bag. First, I wasn't expecting much from it so it was a good surprise. 
 Second, Raven prove again that they are aiming casual market.
  
  Gameplay
  Quake has been a mythic icon in FPS. The franchise didn't really changed in the gameplay department 
 for more than a decade. Is Quake 4 in a different league? I must say no, and you shouldn't be surprised 
 to see Raven Software been picked to make the game. Their SoF games were easily ultra generic shooters 
 with extreme gore and violence, I think that describe well the Quake franchise. You pick guns, 
 you shoot, you survive. There's really not anything else. The new rendition of Quake allow you 
 to use some vehicles, but that's about all the new things you will found.
  
  Now, the real question is "is it good?" : I will say surprisingly, yes, it's better than I thought. 
 "Is it stellar?" : Hell no! it's a great game for sparing time, but don't expect much more. It's 
 fun, but not breathtaking.
  
  The story got some really good patterns and it's probably why it's a fun game. Let's look at the 
 technicalities.
  
  Graphic
  Well, the optimisation of the Doom 3 engine is working. It's running really well. You see that 
 Raven Software is a PC developer at heart. Everything works fine and the graphics are really awesome. 
 You don't need a monster rig to run this well. It was easy to run at 1280X1024 with everything 
 in the max (without AA and at high setting) with a simple Radeon 9800 pro. What a tour de force!
 
  
  Sound
  Really good dialogue, but sometime a little lost into all the action. Great deal of gun fire and 
 impressive enemy sound, nothing bad about it.
  
  Value
  For what it brings, Quake 4 doesn't have a good value in my opinion. If can grab it for a low cost, 
 maybe I would tell you to go for it, but for the actual retail price, forget it.
  
  Tilt
  Like I said, I'm looking at Raven Software games closely due to JKII, but lately, their games aren't 
 fantastic. Quake 4 is still a great benchmark test.
  
  If you are in a urge of some action and that you can't find anything else, Quake 4 may fill an 
 empty hole, but until then, there is better games around. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VampOrdinator
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 2, 2006 9:10 pm PT
Review:  Quake 4 picks up where quake 2 left off. In case you don't know where exactly that is worry not, 
 the game does a wonderful job of explaining it for you. The main story of quake 4 revolves around 
 an alien overlord unit refered to as theMakron ". The death of this creature due to the assassination 
 by a single marine in quake 2 has led to a full on attack to the planet stroggos. The story picks 
 up from there and while its no award winner it should do well to keep you interested and more inportantly 
 keep you fragging.
  The single player portion of the game is actually really really good. So if you don't have online 
 don't let that deture you. The story mode is quite beefy for this kind of game and it will no doubt 
 give you your bang for your buck. Now a big part of pc gaming is the graphics. And as always you 
 have to have a stout enough computer to handle it. Now this game boasts some really awesome visuals. 
 So if you have a high end or medium end computer you'll really be in for a treat. on the other 
 hand if your computer isn't as good and your still interested in this game i would still get it. 
 Even though alot of the presentation will be gone the core action will be for the most part intact. 
 Now if your computer isn't too good and your considering the Xbox 360 my words of advice would 
 be to avoid that version like the plague. Now i mean this is a good game but i would by all means 
 try to get it on computer since the 360 version suffers from some serious slow down issues. But 
 once again if your not much of a nit picker and you really want to play this game then yeah go 
 for it.
  The sound in this game is also very, very well done. The sound of all the strogg biomechanics really 
 help set a mood. And hearing enemy growls will always keep you on your toes. Now on to the multiplayer. 
 Quake deathmatch, ever hear of it? If your amoung the 7 people who haven't well lend me an ear.... or 
 an eye.. meh doesn't matter. The fabled multiplayer from quake 3 is back and literally looking better 
 than ever. While not much has changed since then, the frantic often fast paced gameplay is as fun 
 as ever. So really for 20 bucks what are you waiting for? Quake 4 offers an awesome single player 
 story mode as well as multiplayer to keep you coming back time and time again. Overall Quake 4 
 is just a really solid fps package and it shouldn't be overlooked by newcomer or veteran alike.
 
  
  - Vamp. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chozzenn
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 31, 2006 7:44 pm PT
Review:  Quake 4 has some of the greatest graphics I have ever seen. Its almost right down to a speck of 
 a dot detailed, looks beatiful.
  The gameplay is pretty interesting, but frustrating at times. the multiplayer is ruined if you 
 get lag and its pretty hard to compete with others if your not too fast. Single player can be annoying 
 when you get outnumbered. overall its good for a run through it, wont last long though.
  The sounds fit perfect for the enviroment they are in, and the future look that the game has. 
 
  this game is worth it if you intend to play the multiplayer, but if your just buying it for a 
 single player i wouldnt recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sam_2006
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 30, 2006 11:53 am PT
Review:  Quake 4 has come with great features and a great action style. graphically Quake 4 is using Doom 
 engine that I personally appreciate so much and so the game takes you into obscure environments 
 with fantastic lightnings and textures, however, the game play here is a bit different from that 
 of Doom ; for I think that Quake 4 is more intensive than Doom 3 and it's got much action and shooting 
 than Doom does. No comparison meant here because I do like Doom 3 as well but I think that each 
 one has got it's own qualities. Quake 4 also has got some good features that I appreciated pretty 
 much and on the top of them is the flash light, since now you can turn it on or off all along with 
 the gun, unlike other games for instance where you must switch between the flash light and the 
 weapons. another feature is the vehicles; now you can take control of a tanker or a very sophisticated 
 Robot. The sounds are cool too and the story is great on its own right . quake 4 is a very good 
 way to go for a 100% action. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChristianKiss
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 5, 2009 5:48 am PT
Review:  Quake 4 is set in the Quake II's universe, continuing the struggle between humans and Stroggs, 
 the latest a hostile alien race. In this First-Person Shooter you play as Kane, a new guy to the 
 Rhino Squad. You're about to fight in a Strogg planet and do some serious missions to stop their 
 slaughtering against the human kind. However your squad underestimates you, thinking that you won't 
 survive for so long. I'll let the remaining portion of the story to you to discover, since there's 
 no point to reveal one of the most interesting concepts in this game.
  
  Quake 4 has an excellent single player campaign. The scenarios are well worked, cool and with straight 
 objectives. The Artificial Intelligence is OK and gameplay is just great, remembers a lot Quake 
 II and this is not a bad thing. The weapons are a mix between all the previous Quake games. For 
 example, you'll use Lightning Guns (like in the original Quake) and plasma-like guns (from Quake 
 III: Arena) , but there isn't a BFG2K-like weapon as the one in Quake II, although a new weapon 
 came to substitute the powerful energy gun.
  
  The graphics engine was developed by id Software, and they're just in an unquestionable amazing 
 quality. You'll feel like a real marine while playing Quake 4. When you turn on your flashlight, 
 you'll see a little better in dark places, and this makes the game much more interesting in some 
 particular places. Sometimes your enemies will appear from the dark, and the flashlight will suddenly 
 become necessary. This may sound common to a regular FPS player, but I followed all the Quake titles, 
 as well similar games, and I had never come across with such things. Doom 3 and F. E. A. R. appears 
 to have similar features, however I didn't have the opportunity to try them out yet.
  
  The sound is just great and gives the exact notion of how a marine would feel in a creepy Strogg 
 facility. When you fire a weapon, kill a monster or hear an explosion, you'll feel that all seems 
 to be real. The soundtrack does its part as well, when a special event is occurring.
  
  The bad thing about Quake 4 is that there is no point to play the game in multiplayer. It is nearly 
 equal to Quake III: Arena. When you start a multiplayer game, you'll feel the game a little faster 
 than in the single player mode, which probably means that the developers want to speed up the game 
 to make the competitive experience a bit better. Not a bad idea, but I prefer Quake III to play 
 like this. They could've been made things more interesting if Quake 4 supports cooperative mode, 
 allowing playing the campaign with friends like in Quake II. That would be a dream!
  
  Even with the lazy multiplayer support, Quake 4 is a fine example of how a new game can feature 
 old-school shooting without giving the impression of being a recycled stuff. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kambosa
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 27, 2006 5:53 pm PT
Review:  Quake 4 is one of the good first person shooter of 2006 but not the best...
  Maybe the doom 3 like graphics boosts the experience but the gameplay is somehow a little boring.
 
  
  The beginning is done beautifully making you go throw a good storyline .. but the action is same 
 through out the game, the same freaks attack in a unchallengeable way ... just point and shoot, 
 thus getting bored in a few hours.
  
  Graphics are the same of doom 3 ... no changes what so ever but they are great and maybe the best 
 of recent games . 
  
  Overall i did enjoy the game but as soon as i closed it i forgot every part of it proving me right 
 about it being boring....! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mortel3-Pheonix
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 27, 2006 4:53 am PT
Review:  First off, if you are a fan of the original Quake and QuakeII games, then for you, Quake4 has been 
 a long, long time coming. Since 1997 people have been longing for more Strogg-Fragging, and Quake3 
 did not deliver.
  
  The cinematic opening is enough to captivate even the non-Quake literate gamer. In this we learn 
 Earth is under attack by the Strogg, and surprise surprise, YOUR ship has been sent to the Strogg 
 planet to bring the fight to them. As you are flying over the planet, the cliche crash landing 
 takes place, and your first mission is given: recover your crew. From the very start of the game, 
 it comes apparent just how Doom-Like the graphics engine is, and the fact is, it IS the same graphics 
 engine. But the game itself is so much different, nay, better than Doom3 could ever be, even with 
 its expansion packs.
  
  Doom3 was a terribly slow burn before the action really kicked in, but Quake, well, Its instant. 
 As soon as you decide to walk through the first door, you're up against one big freak-beast of 
 a Strogg, and right there and then, for the rest of the game, the adrenaline starts to rush.
  
  You start with your average pistol, standard issue. And once you recover your team, the game 
 designers intelligently throw an array of different mission types at you. These range of missions 
 include solo work, escorting fellow marines or even jumping into a Mech or Tank.
  
  Once again I must stress how much, for lack of a better word, "cooler" Quake 4 is compared to Doom3. 
 Doom was merely a "walk down a corridor, shoot, and keep walking", while Quake takes you out in 
 the open, in giant hangars where massive gunfights ensue, and even the occasional restricting catwalk 
 (just for a challenge) .
  
  But even while all these amazingly entertaining scenarios unfold before you, you are forced to 
 acknowledge the amazing detail that goes into the game. Highly intelligent lighting systems simulate 
 shadows and depth perfectly, while blood splatters follow the laws of physics perfectly.
  
  As great as I am making this game sound, I always attempt to find the faults in games (as nothing 
 is perfect) . So I will nitpick on the tiny details, for example, there is no Melee weapon! Not 
 even the Axe from the original Quake. But then again, to make up for this, they have included the 
 Gravity Gun, which sucks everything into a small vortex, sending it flying out in a mighty explosion. 
 And I'm certain of the reason why there is no axe in this game: You sure as hell don't want to 
 get that close to a Strogg. Another tiny problem is the fact that only two of the firearms come 
 with built in torches, which are very much required during those "fear-inducing" scenarios. BUT, 
 once again, the flashlight situation has been greatly improved since DOOM3. In Doom, you had to 
 hold the flashlight in one hand, and switch between it and your gun whenever required. At least 
 Quake4 was smart enough to build them into the guns. They are about the only problems.
  
  The amazing thing about this game is, no matter how absolutely gruesome you think your guns are, 
 the more your progress, the meaner the enemies get, hence the upgrades to even more wicked guns.
 
  
  Now, more on the vehicles I mentioned earlier. The Hovertank is equipped with some pretty mean 
 guns, and when you first get into it, you think to yourself "Heh, these Strogg have no chance"... Until 
 you round the corner. There, standing about 75 Feet high, are Strogg Spider-Walkers. Things like 
 this are what makes the game surpass itself ever second that passes. And the more gruesome these 
 weaponry and enemies become, the more you want to BECOME the enemy. And you just about get your 
 wish.
  
  About 1/3 into the game, you meet up with The Makron, the Boss from Quake and Quake2, who you supposedly 
 killed in those games. Just as you seem to have the upper hand on this dude (who is about 50ft 
 tall) , he grabs you in his vice-like grip and shocks you, putting you onto a conveyor belt. And 
 here comes the most awesome scene of the game: your conversion. You are still in first person, 
 lying on the conveyor belt, when you start to wake up. The mouse sensitivity has increased ten-fold, 
 to simulate a groggy head, and the screen is slightly blurred. Through your blurred vision you 
 watch as the unlucky sap in front of you is given exponential amounts of steroids (to keep him 
 alive) , while he is carved to pieces and his innards are replaced with Strogg machinery: he is 
 being converted into a Strogg. Just when you think the scene is over, the conveyor belt moves, 
 and you get to WATCH, in FIRST PERSON, your body getting to chopped to bits, your limbs replaced 
 with Strogg machinery. And just when you are about to have your brain reprogrammed so you fight 
 for the Strogg, your marine buddies bust in and haul you out. You quickly realise that you are 
 now working with twice the speed you normally have, and 25 more health points than usual. So you 
 have all the strength of the Strogg, but still fighting for Earth.
  
  Onto the multiplayer aspect of Quake 4. One word, 'turbo'. While Doom3 was 10 minutes of searching 
 for your enemy, 4 seconds of exchanging bullets, and then starting all over again, Quake 4 is fast, 
 furious, and a constant gunfight. It is just simply fun, and uses much of Quake3: Arena's successful 
 multiplayer style.
  
  In the end, Quake cannot be put down in the area of adrenaline. It is something just short of perfect, 
 with seamless visuals and great gameplay. So if you're looking for an adrenaline-rush, just load 
 up Quake4, and you'll be making Beef Strogganoff in not time.
  
  Mortel3's Rating:
  
  Great sequel to a great series, seamless graphics, better use of Doom3 Engine. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Docto878
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 24, 2006 8:58 pm PT
Review:  I love FPS games. Some of them are in another stratosphere, like HL2 and HL2 episode 1. A slight 
 notch down from greatness is Quake 4. The game mechanics are solid and the guns are great. The 
 game also looks really good. There is no real story, but who cares. You get to kill lots of enemies. 
 So who cares if it is a straight forward game. FPS fans should pick this up. And at 20 bucks it 
 is a steal. So if you love Doom this game should be in your PC. By the way, I have an AMD 4000, 
 1Gig of Ram and a Nvidia 7600GT. I play this game maxed out and it is smooth as silk. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Valkyrie_44
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 23, 2006 7:06 pm PT
Review:  Being a fan of series since Quake 1, I figured this would be one great title especially since the 
 series slowly egressed to the realm of multiplayer, and lost some of its storyline roots. Well 
 this game took a step back, and brought back a good storyline, and good events that really puts 
 a unique twist in the series.
  
  Graphically, this game is awesome, and to play iit at top-notch requires a robust system, anything 
 less of course will give mixed results. Overall nice textures, and solid lighting once more.
  
  Audio, also it was done very well, the music and eerie environments really sets in some spooky 
 undertones. I found this area just as well done as Doom 3 thankfully.
  
  Gameplay in single-player is well done, nice pacing, and the weapons feel like they have mass, 
 each weapon has its own good , and bad features that must be taken in stride to successfully survive. 
 Multiplayer seems quickend to the point of lunacy, Quake three didn't feel this fast. This is a 
 mark against multiplayer.
  
  Multiplayer wise, this game hit its hurdle, the multiplayer turly seemed threw together. I do realise 
 Enemy Territory: Quake Wars is around the corner, but leaving another title completed half-arsed 
 in this way is unacceptable. 
  
  Overall, even though I am greatly dissappointed by the multiplayer component. This game is very 
 well done it looks good, and the sequences from area to area is really well done. If you are wanting 
 a game for its single player this is a good addition to a library, multplayer I suggest you go 
 elsewhere. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pwnr
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 22, 2006 7:00 pm PT
Review:  Quake was a revolutionary game that helped start the whole FPS genre. Now three releases later 
 Quake 4 is here. 
  
  Gameplay:
  The guns were futuristic. 
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics were pretty realistic but I've seen better. The bad part is that the FOV is too large 
 so it makes objects smaller which makes it harder for me to play well in. Also the effects could 
 have had some improvement. 
  
  Sound:
  Sound is a basic thing, and as long as you have good speakers and a good sound card the sound sounds 
 good. 
  
  Value:
  This game was really basic and didn't impress me as much as other games can. All I can say is that 
 if you want another game in your collection, this would be it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazymonkey092
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 22, 2006 1:24 am PT
Review:  This game is so fun, I haven't ever been a Quake player nor even a pc gamer, but I got my first 
 pc that can actually play computer games and on max settings.... I just knew I had to try out Quake 
 4. What can I say, it is so thrilling the whole way through the single player mode. Not only do 
 you get to walk around and shoot the strogg but you get to get in tanks and huge robot looking 
 things. Over all the story is very good and interesting and the game isn't just about running around 
 shooting things. So if you like a game with a strong single player background then this game is 
 for you.
  Multi-player, well that is a whole level different from any other FPS. The way you move and shoot 
 is entirely up to you!! You just can't go around trying to be the first one to shoot someone, it 
 takes strategy, good timing, and definitely control. I think since I have joined the pc gaming 
 community Quake is the hardest FPS I have ever played. The skill level of most players is just 
 so high that you can't even touch them at times and lucky just to get a kill on them. 
  So ya Quake 4 is a good game, and if you have never played a quake before, and if you buy Quake 
 4 be prepared to want to play every other quake because it can get addicting at times. If you are 
 questioning on whether buying Quake 4, just play some other Quakes first and then you will want 
 to buy Quake 4, and you won't be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: benboz
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 17, 2008 12:27 am PT
Review:  Quake 4 is the next instalment in the series after Quake 3. Quake 4's storyline is now on a marine 
 who's name is Kane (been a while since I've played it) . You have crashed land on a planet full 
 of Strogg (the aleins or enemies) . The storyline is long and awesome. The gameplay is like the 
 same layout as Doom 3 but its better. Graphics run really well on a fast computer and better than 
 the other 3 Quake games.
  
  The multiplayer is another great feature in the game but I would rather play the single player 
 first just to get use to the controls and what happens. Sometimes the game can be hard but it is 
 a great challenge.
  
  Quake 4 is another awesome game in the Quake series. Fans and other gamers should like this game 
 due to its visuals and awesome storyline. You should go and check it out!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: meneerjerry
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 19, 2006 5:10 am PT
Review:  great game takes approximatly 20 hours or less to ccomplete , great variety of gameplay , scenery 
 , mission types etc ( you can play as a walker, tank sometimes) . scares the hell out off you atsome 
 points , theres also a lot of diffrerent enemies 
  sometimes there are some puzzles for example how to defeat a certain boss or somethings like that 
 . you don't always play alone in singleplayer campaign some times youre with a team , (*note that 
 ai team members can't die) . 10 different weapons should give you different ways to defeat an opponent. 
 great multiplayer too . not too muck replay quality on singleplayer campaign 
::::::

::::::
UserName: halBU
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jul 17, 2006 12:45 am PT
Review:  Raven managed to take the look and feel of Quake 2 and update it with the DOOM 3 engine. The environments 
 are painstakingly detailed (only a few obvious build errors) , the character design is very good, 
 and the sounds were particularly satisfying. I do question some game play decisions.
  
  I can't begin to imagine how much effort went into creating some of the levels. The sheer amount 
 of detail is staggering. I have to complain a little bit about the same flaw I saw in the DOOM 
 3 engine... when you stand a few feet away any surface it looks amazing... get close to it and 
 it looks crappy. Come on! The S3TC textures from UT were more impressive up close! I hate to complain, 
 but it does ruin the immersion.
  
  Most of the weapon sounds were authoritative - I love the railgun, rocket launcher, and grenade 
 launcher sounds. The Hyperblaster and DMG sounds were kind of weak. The enemy voices (though somewhat 
 repetitive) were effective (who didn't want to run away fast when you heard "GUILTY!") . The voices 
 were well done, I thought, and the dialogue was thankfully free of cheese. 
  
  My complaint is in the game play department. I didn't like the "rails" levels at all. They were 
 not done well and the game would have been better without them. The Tank level was very dull. Only 
 the mech level was mildly entertaining. Only then because it was hilarious to thrash the tiny Strogg. 
 The game started out much too slow. I hate to bring up HL2, but Valve got it just right... once 
 the action started, it was breathtaking. Only in the later levels of Quake 4 was the challenge 
 there that I was looking for. 
  
  Going back to weapons for a second... I like the Quake weapons but, in my opinion, they should 
 have just started out in the "upgraded" form anyhow. Don't hold back on weapon features for the 
 sake of making me feel as if I am experiencing new game play throughout the game. The improvements 
 weren't that stellar anyhow and an "alt" fire mode is pretty much common now anyhow. I accept that 
 I will uncover new weapons as I progress, don't handicap my standard weapons from the outset - 
 that just makes them less interesting. Pariah fell into the same trap. If anything - make them 
 really fun to use from the start and then go from there.
  
  Adding to my wish-list: a longer game. It's hard to understand why DOOM3 was so much longer, though 
 I guess Raven did put a fair amount of work into the multiplayer aspect of the game. Seeing that 
 the mp game didn't take off, I wish there would have been more in the sp. I was just starting to 
 have fun with my guns and all of the tough enemies late in the game. I'm also one of those people 
 that horde the ammo for the best guns. I'll try to take out a room of Strogg with a machinegun 
 before I'll waste a DMG round for fear that I'll use it later on. As it turns out, I didn't. 
 
  
  The AI was decent. The Strogg dodged around some but the rest either stood still while you picked 
 them off, or outright charged into your firestorm. The bar has been raised in this department by 
 other games. The team AI, on the other hand, was surprisingly good. Team mates didn't do anything 
 stupid, were reasonably helpful, and they always left me a nice spot to use team tactics. 
  
  Story? Well, there really wasn't much of one. It was more or less just an excuse for action 
 with a single twist in the middle. Interesting, but not engaging. No character development and 
 no drama. But I guess it's Quake and it doesn't really need it. Still, it would be nice to care 
 why you are flipping the latest switch and it is something to put on the wish list for future games 
 in the series.
  
  Overall... job well done. There's still room for improvement, and though it isn't the BEST game 
 of its genre that I've played in the last year or so, it's worthy of the series and still good 
 fun.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raistlen007
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 15, 2006 11:06 am PT
Review:  Let's face it people, Quake 3 disappointed. We didn't need another death match engine, we needed 
 the next Quake game. Now we got it. By continuing the Quake story from Quake 2, with a very Brothers 
 in Arms like intro, and leaping into a Doom 3 looking world at first, we find ourselves surprised 
 at how much we remember from the old Quake games. From the horrible Strogg and to our trusty nail 
 gun, this is Quake through and through. Both for good and for bad...
  
  No one ever looked for a Quake game to have a great story, but Quake 4 surpasses it's predecessors, 
 not that it's a difficult task... The mid-game twist is worth the price of admission in itself.
 
  
  The sense of scale it superb, as is the environment variety. The music is motion picture quality, 
 as is the voice acting.
  
  The graphics are superb on a high end system. The medium range system stutters, unfortunately, 
 and I can't help thinking that the Ultra quality feature is only there to show off and boost Nvidia 
 sales... even with 1GB of RAM the Ultra causes my P4 3ghz onto the floor with frame rates caused 
 by immense texture sizes. 
  
  The game ends up being too much of a combination between Quake and Doom, but that doesn't have 
 to be a bad thing. Don't miss this game if you enjoyed Quake 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Splinter9543
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 10, 2006 11:56 pm PT
Review:  I thought this was going to be like every other FPS. But this game suprised me I had such a great 
 time playing through it. This defines FPS better then Doom 3. This is no Half Life 2 but it will 
 garentee a great time it rocks. graphics were great.. sound was good. The best thing about this 
 game is it was simple to pick up. just sit down and shoot the enemy. The monster's in this game 
 looked amazing they all felt so different. Hats off to the designer's of this game it is truely 
 a masterpiece. sagsa dsg s gsdg s gsdg s gsdg s gsdgs sdgs gsdg sg sg 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Source_Freeman
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 9, 2006 1:57 am PT
Review:  What can I say? I was waiting for such shooter and I finally played it. But let's see the raiting:
 
  
  GAMEPLAY
  OMG, it looks like DooM III and I don't like that. (Well, Quake is much better than DooM.) The 
 game is too linear. But it is scary... sometimes. However I enjoy it.
  
  GRAPHICS
  DooM 3 engine... The best light and shade effects. But the physic is total garbage!
  
  SOUND
 
  Excellent!
  
  VALUE
  Man, this is Quake!!!
  
  REVIEWER'S TILT
  Great game...
  
  This is what I think. Well I think one more thing - this is one of the games you have to play 
 to call yourself gamer!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: timbo0827
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 8, 2006 3:52 pm PT
Review:  Quake 4 is a good game for the 1st person shooter fan, but it is too much like Doom 3 to really 
 be called a truly great game. The graphics are very well done but everything else is above average. 
 The only difference between Doom 3 and Quake 4 is the fact that you are fighting aliens rather 
 than demons and the darkness. I cannot really say much because I played for about two hours but 
 fans of Doom 3 will enjoy Quake 4. Quake 4 is a game that is good, but not great. $50 dollars is 
 a lot for this game but $20 or $30 is a good price for Quake 4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fatboyvinnie
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 7, 2006 9:58 am PT
Review:  Story: You are Matthew Kane, a member of Rhino squad who has been sent along with several other 
 squads to the planet stroggos where you eliminate the rest of the stroggos and end this earth vs 
 stroggos war once and for all
  
  Graphics: Pros-Environments look great, models are well detailed, lots of pretty special effects throughout 
 the game, nice cinematics
  Cons-none
  
  Sound: Pros-Solid voice acting, good weapon sounds, monster and special effect sounds sound well done
 
  Cons: none
  
  Game play: Pros-Solid addictive fun that takes you back to the basics, weapons are fun to use, vehicle 
 sections are fairly solid
  Cons-Can get a little repetitive towards the end of the game, a bit too basic for some people
 
  
  Replay Value: A 10 hour SP experience that you can come back to at higher difficulty levels, you 
 also get a fun 16 player MP mode with several modes of play which include DM, TDM and CTF but it 
 can feel a bit too familiar with Quake 3
  
  Overall: Quake 4 is a solid old school type shooter with some pretty cool and gruesome looking cinematics 
 and a solid MP to boot 
::::::

::::::
UserName: klash_patil
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 1, 2006 7:46 am PT
Review:  NOTE : This review concerns only the Q4 singleplayer campaign.
  
  PREMISE : Alright. I admit it. Quake 4 looks amazing. It sounds good. And for a while, it feels 
 great. But you get over the initial euphoria - when you're doing the same things, over and over 
 again. With the technology at their disposal, Raven could have come up with a great game - something 
 involving a reasonably good plot and non-repetitive gameplay. While there are a couple of twists 
 in the game, they only manage to provide a brief respite from the boredom that gnaws at you during 
 the rest of the campaign. 
  
  GAMEPLAY : Nostalgia can only take you so far. The first third of the campaign reminds you of Quake 
 2 and the "good old days". Eventually, you realize that Quake 2 was just as bad as this - only 
 that was a different time - first person shooters were as hard to find as needles in proverbial 
 haystacks - and Quake 2 was rather refreshing back then. 
  As you'd know by now, you play as Mathew Kane, a marine in the Rhino squad - and you land on Strogg 
 just after the Makron was killed by the nameless marine in Q2. You're thrust into combat, and you 
 get a taste of what you'll be doing in the next twelve game hours. The weapons are rather generic 
 (most of them are contemporary versions of weapons in Q2, another lame attempt at inducing nostalgia) , 
 although they look and sound great. Some weapons come with alternate fire modes - usually sniper 
 scopes or tracers. Most of your weapons are upgradeable, and you will receive these upgrades at 
 regular intervals. 
  
  Fighting with your comrades is a new addition to the quake series, and it's rather well done - 
 they can hold up their own (and even cover your back at times) , without getting in the way (unlike 
 HL2) .
  About one third of the way through, Kane is captured and "stroggified". Although he retains his 
 mental faculties, he obtains all the quirks that accompany a strogg on it's home planet. In a rather 
 nice twist, you gain the ability to read strogg text, and use some weird looking contraptions to 
 your advantage. It is an interesting plot element, although nothing quite as drastic as you might 
 expect when you read the promos saying "To defeat the Strogg, you must become one of them..."
 
  The strogg are very nicely detailed and look menacing - some of them look monstrous - as they 
 should. Fighting most monsters is essentially about unloading your ammunition while dodging their 
 projectiles, an activity which, for some reason, feels more mundane in Q4 than in other shooters 
 where you do essentially the same thing. Expect to find some crazy bosses and intense boss fights 
 which is even more about unloading your ammunition while strafing than the rest ot the game. 
 
  There are a few vehicle sequences that are as linear as the corridor shooting (think larger corridors 
 and stronger foes) - but they do provide a welcome change from the running. 
  The ending is predictable - just like the rest of the game. 
  
  GRAPHICS AND SOUND : Quake 
 4 looks incredible. The Doom 3 engine shows off its full potential, and provided you have a decent 
 low-mid level graphics card, the game can be run with all bells and whistles turned on. This essentially 
 translates to AA, specular maps and the Doom 3 lighting system (is that what it's called?) , along 
 with a few special effects such as blurring and refraction due to fires or rail gun shots (the 
 latter look fantastic) and double vision (yes, double vision - a condition where two apparent images 
 of the same object are formed) when you're hit by a poison cloud (which, in another entry to the 
 list of Q4 cliches, is green) . The environments look positively amazing and dynamic, with plenty 
 of flashing screens and huge machines working in the background. The deeper you descend into Strogg 
 territory, the more enticing you find their architecture to be. Save for the corridors (all of 
 which look the same) , the interiors are filled with detail and provide plenty of room - a must 
 when it comes to boss fights. 
  I can't comment on the sound though, I use an onboard sound card with two desktop speakers, hardly 
 a testbed for sound quality. Speech is well done, but the voices are somewhat familiar - I would'nt 
 be surprised if the same voice actors were used for Doom 3. The music picks up tempo during large 
 scale battles and boss fights, but remains forgettable throughout the game. The weapons sound great, 
 although I was forced to continually increase my speaker volume to listen to briefings just before/after 
 combat. 
  
  VALUE : Can't comment on this either. I played with a friend's copy (and I was quite happy at the 
 end that I did not purchase this game) and quite frankly, don't even know how much it retails for. 
 Sorry!
  
  SUMMARY : Quake 4 is a first person shooter that packs a lot of eye candy and is backed by FPS 
 behemoths, but eventually reveals itself to be a run of the mill shooter with no replay value. 
 Playing it the first time was bad enough! On the bright side, it soothes itching trigger fingers 
 by giving you a lot of stuff to shoot at. Ideal to try your hand at after a bad day. 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: grope2
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 30, 2006 11:41 pm PT
Review:  personally i loved this game, it was enjoyable and quick paced, been a fan of the dooms i was quick 
 to snap this one up. o. k so it did get a little repeatative with all the panel button pushing and 
 the elevators were starting to get tirsome but all in all i'd give this a 9 out of 10, others would 
 disagree im sure but once again (same as supreme commander) i used to play on my dads knee and 
 play the original doom for hours, so im all the way with ID and have always loved there games. 
 People will mention that it is very similar to doom3... well yes it is but wy not use the sucesses 
 of the doom to boost the attributes of this game, the storyline is fairly similar you have to assit 
 the marine teams and eventually destroy the source of this mayhem. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spazmaster666
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 27, 2006 12:10 am PT
Review:  The Quake series of games has certainly become legendary to anyone who knows anything about first 
 person shooters or PC gaming in general. And after Quake 2 ended, many gamers, myself included, 
 certainly were looking forward to what ID Software had in store for us next and whether or not 
 it would once again revisit the world of Strogg. When Quake 4 was first announced I was quite excited 
 and hearing it would be running on the Doom 3 engine imagined what kind of world we would experience 
 in the game.
  
  Well, I have to say that while certainly Quake 4 didnt exactly match up to all the hype that surrounded 
 its release, it is nevertheless a satisfying experience. It looks and plays great, but doesnt 
 do anything revolutionary. Not that there is necessarily a problem with that. The old saying, if 
 it aint broke dont fix it comes to mind and that concept fits Quake 4 very well. Graphical enhancements, 
 dynamic weapons, a creepy atmosphere, and a solid, if not exactly original, storyline however, 
 push it beyond the realm of good and into the realm of great.
  
  And let me just say, boy does it look good. The Doom 3 engine, while not exactly the newest technology 
 around still looks great over a year later and in fact is looking better than it ever has. Per-pixel 
 lighting and shadowing, normal & specular mapping, and all the usual goods are seen here as well 
 as some highly-detailed character models and weapons. Wall and envirionment textures, as was the 
 case with Doom 3, are still low-res and less-than spectacular at close range but the excellent 
 lighting and shadowing effects make up for it. Surprisingly it runs quite well even on less than 
 high-end systems. I have played this game with everything from an X800XL to a 7800GT to an X1900XT 
 and have always gotten smooth, relatively lag-free game play, though youll need a beefy graphics 
 card and plenty of RAM in order to run the game with all the IQ turned up. While it frame rates 
 do boggle in certain areas (usually areas with dense and complex lighting and shadowing) the game 
 is pretty much bug-free and not once did it freeze or crash to desktop. The environments are in 
 some ways similar to IDs earlier works such as Quake 2 and Doom 3 and Quake 4 still mostly takes 
 place within futuristic indoor facilities. However, there are exceptions such as several outdoor 
 vehicle/rail levels as well as a trip to a waste disposal facility.
  
  The sound is also quite good. Weapons generally sound as they should, ambient noises generally 
 dictate the atmosphere quite effectively and the baddies always make a distinctive sound when they 
 come out to play. I played the game on with a Logitech Z-5500 5.1 system with OpenAL and EAX HD 
 enabled and overall the sound was rich and immersive.
  
  The game play doesnt stray much from classic FPS style of shoot first ask questions later. There 
 really isnt much tactic involved as you are usually too occupied with filling your enemies with 
 nails or energy bolts than stopping and thinking, though its not to say that you dont need to 
 think at all merely not much thinking is really necessary. And in that sense, the game is also 
 quite linear, usually involving you to solve a simple puzzle such hitting a switch somewhere in 
 order for you to progress further in the game. Though there are again a few exceptions such as 
 certain laser puzzle encountered later in the game. Many of the Quake 2 baddies are back a long 
 with a few new enemies, and while they certainly look better, they dont really show too much uniqueness 
 in their tactics or strategy, most preferring to come at you head on. As with Quake 2 and Doom 
 3 there are a few boss battles but they are not as pervasive as in the earlier games.
  
  What about the arsenal? Well, its almost identical to Quake 2. Youve got your blaster, your assault 
 rifle, hyperblaster, nail gun, rocket launcher, rail gun, etc. But a few additions as well such 
 as the lightening gun (from Quake I no doubt) and the Dark Matter Gun which seems to the replacement 
 for Quake 2s BFG10K but doesnt quite have the same devastating power or effect. In any case your 
 weapons get the job done quite well and later on many of them, including the shotgun and nail gun, 
 will get some upgrades (such as heat-seeking nails) which will mix up the game play a little bit 
 but generally speaking just makes the game a little easier.
  
  Theres not much to say about the plot. For those who are havent played Quake 2, Quake 4 is about 
 an epic battle between the alien biomechanical Strogg and humans. It takes place some time after 
 the events of Quake 2 in which the leader of the Strogg, the Makron was destroyed. The battle however, 
 rages on. The game starts with you, Corporal Matthew Kane of Rhino Squad, find yourself on the 
 surface of the Strogg home planet, aptly named Stroggos after your ship crash lands. From there 
 on its typical sci-fi fare as you go on various missions as the war against the Strogg progresses. 
 Then, about half-way through the game when you (without spoiling things too much) are captured 
 and get a little upgrade for yourself. Unfortunately, this upgrade doesnt really change things 
 as much you may have hoped and really merely allows the storyline to continue, but hey, its better 
 than nothing. All theses missions of course eventually lead to a climactic showdown. Need I say 
 more?
  
  The single-player campaign took me about 12 hours to complete on hard mode so its not incredibly 
 long by any means but is long enough to keep you entertained. In fact the single player game has 
 replay value, for reasons which I have yet to grasp, and I have found myself going back and playing 
 it a few more times over. The multiplayer, as Im sure other reviewers have noted is fun but nothing 
 special. I havent played it much myself (as it doesnt interest me much) but I suppose if youre 
 still the type who fancies Quake 3-esque multiplayer battles, Quake 4 will suit you well.
  
  Overall, Quake 4 is a fun game. Not particularly innovative or imaginative when it comes to 
 plot or game play but its good looks, fast-pace and its immersive atmosphere make it game thats 
 definitely worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JaMMiE_D
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 25, 2006 9:00 am PT
Review:  Quake 4. Wow. Probably the closest game to perfection at the moment. This is my opinion, and it 
 will probably piss off someone somewhere.
  Quake 4 is awesome in every way possible. Firstly, graphics. We all know that the doom 3 engine 
 is the most powerful engine in existance, and it is still very stable and optimized. Lets compare 
 it with others. Half life 2. Probably the closest in terms of droolableness, however, quake 4 has 
 a more realistic and rounded feel to it. Half life 2 had some rather simple map designs, with a 
 prehistoric aquareness to them. Som of you on the other hand may think that battlefield 2 is better 
 in terms of visual qualities. We have all seen Enemy Territory : Quake wars right? That will have 
 the vast maps of bf2, and still keep the details that doom 3 has.
  However, Quake 4 pushes the barrier further than most. The graphics are awesome, but most people 
 get too caught up in them nowerdays. Quake 4 maintains an extremely fun and smooth gameplay, without 
 making everything wildly complicated. Your first mission is simply to get to your squad (Rhino 
 squad) . You are delayed when you have to retrieve a medic. Already, this is far more realistic 
 than most games, and at least it tells you what is the hell is happening, unlike other unmentionable 
 games. The game then progresses with drop-dead-kool levels, such as the tank and walker missions, 
 or the walk through the iron maidens with your team mates.
  As for the multiplayer, it is virtually the same as quake 3, although a lot smoother. (dont ask 
 me why, I just "feel" it) . It is whoopingly fast, and will also increase you abilities in every 
 other game. It will do this by faster aiming, more aweness and movement which will make you like 
 neo.
  All in all, it is a very very awesome game, and perfect for all the normal fps quake crowd. You 
 should not miss this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sow_dwpreX
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 26, 2006 3:33 am PT
Review:  Quake VI
  
  It comes in a parallel line the other versions, with certain different individualities of the same 
 ones, but if treating to Quake, it leaves for desiring in some factors mainly in its gameplay and 
 to multiplayer.
  But evaluating the same as simply a game without counting the same as it finishes it version of 
 Quake; if it even though deals with a game of excellent graph being impressive.
  
  Account also with a interatividade of the personages that assists the main personage who leaves 
 the game with certain charm to be played, for people whom it likes games in the style really is 
 in the line being a great game. But we are speaking of Quake, then when one remembers that this 
 is it finishes it version of this series of game really did not take care of the expectations.
 
  
  As final evaluation. If to see Quake VI as simply a new game of first person. It will be a good 
 game with impressive graphs. But one will be to remember that he is plus a Quake it really leaves 
 to desire mainly for its predecessors Quake and Quake II.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: HAMODA
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 23, 2006 6:19 am PT
Review:  Quake 4 is by far one of the best fps's out there its very easy to figure out and extremely fun 
 to play, this review is just based on singleplayer.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are absoultly amazing, the character models are definetly one of the highlights 
 of the doom 3 engine, and i really enjoy the atmosphere of the game. Also all of the textures are 
 very well done in the game and there are no low res textures when you get up close to a wall or 
 something. But there is one thing that really bothers me in the outside areas the backdrop just 
 looks like it was painted on, for instance you'll be in a large canyon with hills all around you 
 and then the backdrops are like watercolors of high tech cities. But that is very easy to look 
 past.
  
  Gameplay: the gameplay is really good, but because it uses the same engine as doom 3 it really 
 feels like doom in certain part of the games, expessially when you have no marines along side of 
 you, but doom3 was also a very good game so it doesn't make the game not fun. The story really 
 drives the game and makes you want to keep going and never gets boring no matter how far you are 
 in the game.
  
  Sound: The sounds are absoulutly superb. The voice actin really gives the characters personality, 
 and the weapon sounds are very crisp and are very good on he ears. and strogg voices also sound 
 amazing but do get repetive.
  
  Overall it is an extremely fun game and the very few problems are easy to get past, definatly the 
 bast in the quake series 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iriver_H10
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 19, 2006 11:56 pm PT
Review:  If blasting Strogg to hell is your thing this game is for you. But before you buy it dont make 
 the mistake i made by not checking the supported graphics card chipsets. My 9250 played it but 
 the colors were green which was still OK but it was slightly less appealing to me because of this.
 
  
  The gamelay is intense depending on the difficultly you set it to. Set on hard you will be swamped 
 with extremly difficult to kill Strogg which is fun. The game uses about 2.3G on your hardrive 
 which is evedent in the amount of levels and graphics quality.
  
  For all cheaters out there the cheats work nicly and there are some good enemy summoning cheats 
 and the old faithful God mode is perfect if you are getting slaughtered. 
  
  Overall this game lives up to expectations and well done to the developers on a good job. SW
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RamZ619
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 18, 2006 2:07 pm PT
Review:  Quake 2, one of my all time favorite games ever, and when i heard quake 4 was going to be made 
 by the Doom developers, i was somewhat dissapointed. I mean Doom is ag reat game, but i wanted 
 quake 4 to have that same feel that it had in quake 2. And for the most part it did. You really 
 get the feel hat you have sci-fi powerful weapons in your grasp while your playing this game. The 
 weapons seem to cut through the Strogg like butter. It is not as gory as Quake 2, but the levels 
 are made very well, and the new or revamped strogg are some of the best monsters ive seen. For 
 a developement team that made doom, quake 4 is nothing like it, despite the dark hallways, but 
 you at least get to venture outdoors in walkers or just on foot. And the possibly best part, is 
 the Stroggification level, although its not much different in gameplay, besides the fact that you 
 can read strogg, all in all Quake 4 gave me alot more than i expected. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lysluk
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 17, 2006 7:57 pm PT
Review:  As you should know, Quake 4 is continuing from Quake 2. Which means, this game is primarily focused 
 on Single-Player experience. It excels in that area, however the Mutiplayer cuts short. You would 
 think after Quake 3 that they would nail the online gaming part but they didnt.
  
  The SinglePlayer at first may seem unimpressive, but as the story unfolds it gets better. There 
 is a twist in this game, and that is to leave you to find out. There are a lot of bosses to fight 
 against, but the most fun about Quake 4 is that even for a linear FPS, the action and excitement 
 is all in the level design, the awesome lighting, atmosphere, smart enemies, and sharp sound that 
 wont bore you. 
  
  I have to say, that for the first time a Quake game has me wanting more based on the story. Graphic-wise 
 its like Doom3. It is a Doom engine but even though it looks alike, it doesnt play alike. There's 
 no dark corridors, there's no monster in a closet, and you're not fighting alone all the way through. 
 Sure, there are suprises and enemies pop out of nowhere, but the pace is faster so it feels apart 
 from Doom, or any other game out there. 
  
  The enemies have returned, you'll recognize some from Quake 2 but many have new moves, and smarter 
 intelligence now that you swear you're not playing against an AI. Thats the fun part too. The AI 
 keeps you on your toes, and gives you a challenge. Sometimes you'll tag with some of your squads 
 to fight so your not this lone marine vs a Strogg army. The good thing is there's usually a medic 
 or armor marine which you can ask to replenish yourself. For the rest of the times, you're a one 
 man machine just trying to blow off any Strogg you see, or mutated human in your way. 
  
  Multiplayer is not so promising, but its fun. It feels like Quake 3 with a better engine. Make 
 sure to update the latest patch since they managed to make searching for servers harder, and the 
 lack of customizations is a no-no. 
  
  You'll probably enjoy the SP more than MP. Thats the focus... but why didnt they do good on both 
 so Quake 4 could had been the Game of the Year? Or a game that's on the 9.0 rating mark? 
  
  Maybe they only cared about Enemy Territory: Quake Wars coming out soon for multiplayer. Thats 
 too bad. Overall, a good game though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gods_mistake
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 18, 2006 11:09 am PT
Review:  Quake 4 is a mixed bag. I would agree with most reviewers that the singleplayer campaign is very 
 fun and a great evolution of the Doom 3 engine. The multiplayer however is abysmal. I won't spend 
 much time discussing the multiplayer because I didn't spend much time playing it. The multiplayer 
 is all over the place. The graphics of the player models are good, but the gameplay isn't as smooth 
 or as engaging as Quake 3.
  
  The singleplayer levels are a lot of fun. There are a ton of enemies to mow down and the weapons 
 are pretty cool too. The basic assault rifle is fun to kill things with and they've even brought 
 back the nailgun from the first Quake. Your weapons will get upgrades or enhancements from friendly 
 technicians along the way. The AI teammates are a lot of fun play with, most of them can die so 
 watch their backs. There are some squad based missions that really show off how smart, or depending 
 on the situation, how stupid your buddies can be. You will be turned into a Strogg about 1/3 of 
 the way through the game so you can hold more health and run faster. The vehicle missions in this 
 game are pretty fun too. You get to drive a hover tank which takes some getting used to. You will 
 also get to drive a huge walker with a machine gun and rocket launcher. The Walker decimates everything 
 pretty easily until you get to the spider-robot boss.
  
  That brings me to the most important and best thing about Quake 4, the bosses. Quake is known for 
 it enormous bosses, but this installment takes the cake. there are at least 5 huge boss battles 
 and some that are even reminiscent of the first Quake. You will have so much fun emptying your 
 clip into a huge boss. Then you'll have to empty another clip and another. The best Bosses to fight 
 are the Tower Guardian and the Makron.
  
  This game was overall very enjoyable in the single player mode. Don't waste your time with the 
 multiplayer. Now go and kill some Strogg soldier. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Scythe2442
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 11, 2006 1:05 pm PT
Review:  THis game is a great buy i reccomend it to anyone i beleive that id and raven did an awsome job 
 with the graphics and the total look of the game and gameplay. My freinds and me have this game 
 adnd we both have had alot of fun, i cant wait to paly this game online with other people. dont 
 miss out on this game it is a great buy. There are a few cons tho there are a few glitches here 
 and there and the patche is kind of weid but over all i didnt see much of a fix in the game. I 
 plan on getting some of the mods to see if they work . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrSkull016
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jun 11, 2006 11:38 am PT
Review:  hey all u guys. this is one of the best games that was released last year. i finally got it and 
 here is my review. 
  
  
  SIngle Player: Quake has finally got a proper single player again. This is one of the best single 
 player games i have played in a long time. U start off on a planet and you and your squad are trying 
 to kill those weird alien creatures, in single player. It is very dark to create a sense of fear 
 which it achieved quite happily with me. when you are going to your next area of the building in 
 mission 1, these creatures come out from the walls sometimes and from the roof. Lets just say i 
 had to change my pants quite a few times. I would compare the singleplayer to the new game F. E. A. R 
 and is quite similiar to the doom series but way beter. 
  
  Multiplayer: multiplayer has not changed that much as they wanted to keep it similiar to quake 
 3 as many people enjoyed it like that. The main difrence is the graphics, only difference that 
 i found. One problem i found is that you can't add bots which is such a dissapointment for me as 
 i ruled the bots in quake 3. hopefully a patch or something will change that soon. 
  
  There are quite a few characters to choose from in multiplayer but nothing out of the ordinary. 
 
  
  Levels: there is quite a range of difficulties in singleplayer. I found easy quite hard but maybe 
 it was because i was so scared all the time. 
  
  Sounds: This part of the game did its job, i mean in singleplayer when the music does a scary movie 
 thing on you and suddenly u look up and u see the creatures from u're nightmare it can get quite 
 nerve wreaking. i really enjoyed it. Sound affects did not really grab my attention as much so 
 that was a slight downfall. 
  
  Graphics: This game has come a long way from quake 3. Really good graphics. I mean really really 
 good graphics. It really impressed me and that takes quite a bit. Details are flippen good, u could 
 practcly see the enemy's tonsels. just jokes but its that good. 
  
  Gameplay: gameplay is easy but u must have had some quake expierence otherwise it will take you 
 a while. It's a bit slower to me than what quake 3 is but is still faster than FEAR. 
  
  i would recommend this game. it's really good. I loved it and i think i am gonna go play some more 
 as i am finished here. 
  
  Here are my Ratings: 
  
  Single player: 8.5/10 
  Multiplayer: 7.5/10 
  Characters: 6/10 
  Levels: 8/10 
  Sounds: 9/10 
  Graphics: 9/10 
 
  Gameplay: 8/10 
  Total: 56/70 = 80% 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: asg2d
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 4, 2006 11:01 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: This game was great. Not the best ive ever played, but great! I went into it expecting 
 to be let down, but came out of it very surprised. You see a few new things in the game that are 
 new. The environment is EXCELLENT. It looks wonderful ( similar to Doom 3 ) . Yes, every now and 
 then the AI gets a little flaky, but who cares! Games do that. Great gameplay over all!
  
  Graphics: Wow. GREAT! very similar to Doom 3, but seems to be a little less demanding of your machine.
 
  
  Sound: Sometimes a little shotty, but overall, good. 
  
  Value: go buy it now. its cheap.
  
  Overall: What a good game. I enjoyed it from beginning 
 to end. I wanted to throw my fist through the screen a few times, but whats a game without that? 
 HA! Good SOLID game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StuartWest71
Rating: 6.2
Date: Jun 4, 2006 8:44 am PT
Review:  Whilst I was impressed with the graphics, this game soon became monotonous, with its old-school 
 by the numbers game play. Perhaps I have been spoiled by such classic titles as Far Cry and Half-Life 
 2, but this simplistic formula just doesn't work for me anymore.
  
  If you purchase Quake 4, expect the following:-
  
  1) Pretty Basic AI.
  2) Linear path. Always 
 one green door, amongst many red ones.
  3) The obligatory on-the-rails vehicle section.
  4) Mostly corridor based blasting.
  
  There is a place in the world for this type of game, 
 and I am sure many gamers enjoy it, however if you are not one of them, be warned.
  
  Please note that this review is based upon the single player experience only, as I have not played 
 online multi-player. The chances of me playing the game through a second time are nil.
  
  Overall I would say that it is worth a quick blast if you can pick it up cheap, but to avoid if 
 you prefer more substance in your first-person shooters.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lightinblaze
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 27, 2009 5:22 am PT
Review:  Ever since I had happened to come across the Quake universe I yearned for this game. Unfortunately, 
 this game has been a complete disappointment even though it may have a few commendable features.
 
  
  I have just one word to define the gameplay- bland. It is very repetitive. Every level in the game 
 is deja vu. The objectives are mostly focused on providing an intense yet boring gameplay; either 
 you go kill something or assist your squad. 
  
  The one thing I must admit, though, is that this game has good graphics, if you excuse the cut-scenes. 
 The environment indicates a very intricate atmosphere, very proximal to a planet, which inhabits 
 gruesome yet intelligent species. Albeit, the stroggs do look grotesque.
  
  The action-packed atmosphere stands out from many other such alien-based games. I must say, that 
 sometimes the atmosphere becomes an invitation to continue playing, alluding to an entertaining 
 game. But that is pretty much it, only "alluding" never "offering". I forget to mention that our 
 "beloved Kane" seems to like being surrounded by aliens or being mocked at without even uttering 
 a single word.
  
  The multiplayer is a blast. If you have your friends around you can pass away time without being 
 bored. Also, the game still attracts some players, so you'll find quite a few people on the multiplayer.
 
  
  My final verdict is, if you're looking for a game to while away time or are just interested in 
 the Quake series, this game may suit your needs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SciFiShooterGUY
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 3, 2006 9:21 am PT
Review:  This game is the closest thing to what our military would probably be like, up against an alien 
 force. BTW I can't wait until ET: Quake Wars is out. Even more so, the game will be realistic to 
 life. Of course, I know its still scifi. The human characters and AI in Quake 4 are much closer 
 to realism than a lot of other scie fi shooters. I'd have to say the same for DOOM 3. The game 
 really gives you a sense of friendship between the soldiers as they fight against the heartless 
 Strogg. And in one part of the game, it really gets into this. There are a lot of gameplay styles 
 as well as multiplayer to keep the game occupied with what he/she likes. I for instance, had a 
 lot of fun riding around in the mech. Huge miltary machines equals a lot of fun. In addition the 
 graphics and gameplay add a great level of realism to the game. Squad based combat on a distant 
 planet. This game is just too fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Corrosion85
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jun 1, 2006 1:06 am PT
Review:  I haven't been playing Quake 3 Arena for quite some time time now, anyhow I got a few days off 
 recently and immediately ran to my game store. So I bought Quake 4 ran home and started playing. 
 What disturbed me immediately were the graphics: I never liked the dark Doom 3 engine, and eventhough 
 it looks brighter than the latest Doom and sometimes even offers bright outside areas, the graphics 
 are still too dark in many areas. And even more disturbing is the fact that you only have a pocket 
 light installed on the two basic guns. 
  Throughout the game you spend some time in vehicles, which is a good change to the run n' gunning. 
 Too bad that there isn't a greater variety of ennemies. I also disliked some of the guns at least 
 at the beginning as during the game they get upgraded by technicians. By the way you also get to 
 fight along your squad and the AI of the teammates is - for once - impressively good and helpful. 
 
  The difficulty is rather easy in the first half but towards the end you will notice a steep increase 
 especially when fighting bosses on a harder difficulty. 
  A good thing is that I didn't encounter a single ennoying bug while playing, also the loading times 
 are fast and the automatic saving doesn't interfere with the gameplay by stopping it for a second. 
 
  I didn't spend much time on the multiplayer since I prefer UT2004 multiplayer but real Quake 4 
 fans will certainly spend hours hunting down foes online...
  
  All in all Quake 4 isn't a bad game but not much more than average either.
  My major complaint 
 is that the graphics should have been optimised instead they look like a brighter Doom 3 (which 
 is prefered by many fans however) . I also disliked some textures and the movements of some ennemies 
 should have been redone to give a more realistic feeling. 
  On the other hand Quake 4 surprises you with some cool missions and might give you some creepy 
 moments especially when you play at night with all lights off. To run through the campaign will 
 take about 10 hours or even less and if you are not a Multiplayer fan you will lay the game away 
 for some time and maybe replay it later before the mod comes out... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rambamatic
Rating: 5.9
Date: May 30, 2006 7:45 am PT
Review:  Generally boring gameplay. The graphics are cool to a certain extent, but just like Doom it just 
 gets to be the same darn thing over and over and over again. It's just a rehash of every other 
 FPS with different blinking lights. The handling and firing of the weapons is marginal.... and the 
 AI is sketchy... way way TOO good one moment and then outrageously stupid the next.... I kept playing 
 on and on and hoping that there was going to be some payoff where the game would get "good", but 
 It really was just more and more of the same. You can't control your squad.... the missions are 
 really dumb in spots (they even send you BACK over the same boring environment that you just covered 
 a minute ago to do another boring thing where the same guys attack you in the same spots...... can 
 anyone say "space filler?")
  
  All in all, exiting to see at first, but it quickly becomes very boring and repetitive. Not much 
 of substance here at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: norm325392003
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 28, 2006 9:05 pm PT
Review:  I liked it much better than Doom. The story seemed better. While it wasn't as scary, as in stuff 
 didn't jump out at you or shoot you in the back, it did have its moments. The part when his legs 
 were sawed off were a bit extreme, but being able to enter the rooms made it worth it. The ending 
 was a little anticlimactic, but hopefully they'll make a follow-on to continue the story. I bought 
 the special edition with quake 2, which was a nice bonus. I enjoyed all the missions, and the graphics 
 were awsome! And I could actually see my way around with the light attached to the gun, imagine 
 that!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shaktisingh
Rating: 7.6
Date: May 27, 2006 1:17 pm PT
Review:  Quake 4 is a worthy sequel to Quake 2. Although the game environment looks a lot like Doom 3 in 
 the beginning levels the missions in the second half provide quite a bit of variety.
  The missions played from inside vehicles and the boss fights are definitely the highlights of this 
 game. However, most of the game is just running and shooting to destroy another Strogg target (and 
 whatever gets in the way) .
  The system requirements to play this game at high graphics quality are quite steep. My PC could 
 play Half Life 2 at 1024x768 with AA and AF but I'm forced to play Quake 4 at 800x600 with medium 
 quality to get a decent framerate. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yalejock
Rating: 4.3
Date: May 26, 2006 12:17 pm PT
Review:  Absolutely silly. Does not immerse you like Half Life 2, does not spook you like Doom 3, does not 
 look as good as SiN... I have no clue why anyone would rate this game higher than a 4. 
  
  Biggest problem: AI is utterly dumb - if you are with a few people from your squad - run through 
 the door then go back - your squad-mates will do all the shooting for you; the door trick works 
 with the "aliens" as well - they will come after you religiously and of course you will be waiting 
 for them under the cover. 
  
  Smaller issues: weapons do not hold any punch - there is only one one-kill weapon; the game is 
 very linear - you can not improvise much; the vehicles feel like something from the early 90s- 
 the controls in them are way clumsy; I would have ditched the outdoors stuff completely from the 
 game - it does not rise to the indoor level. 
  
  The only reason I got this game is because I had a break and wanted to kill some time. I only paid 
 $29.99 for it... but I think even that is too steep. 
  
  Best part: the Strogg Med Facility was indeed fascinating; it would be fun if someone made a full-length 
 game just about the little things teh "aliens" can do to you :) . 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fabiozao
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 19, 2006 12:33 pm PT
Review:  Hello Firends!!!
  I'm writing this revew because I love this game!
  The gameplay is briliant!!! in my life i'vnt played any game like this
  When we crash at the 
 surfice of the planet, we have no idea how briliant the game is... at the begining we find easy 
 oponents and objectives.. but in the end we find a "boss".
  I have died 3 times to defeat him... there are so many monsters!
  Quake 4 have very nice graphics, 
 spcecialy textures, and special efects...
  The sound isn't very good, but wen we are playing i have no time to lissen to it.
  ... The games 
 is JUST AMAIZING
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeadParrot145
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 17, 2006 5:44 pm PT
Review:  Current System Configuration
  (I know it sucks)
  Dell Dimension 2400
  Intel Pentium 4 2.20 ghz
  640 mb of ram
  Ati radeon 9250 pro
  
  Even on a low to the bare 
 minimum visual quality, the Doom 3 engine found in Quake 4 just looks amazing. But what Quake 4 
 does right is it takes Doom 3 out of the dark hall ways, by doing this is much easier to get an 
 appreciation of how great the graphics were done. 
  Quake 4's single player takes you into the perspective of a marine named Matthew Kane, and the 
 action will pick up instantly. The guns are interesting and a lot of fun to use. And to break up 
 the usual run and gun gameplay, quake 4 adds some vehicle sequences. Unfortunately, the thrills 
 won't last forever. The single player experience doesn't take too long to complete. I found multiplayer 
 to be more of an expansion to quake 3, gameplay wise its virtuallly the same fast pace action found 
 almost 6 years ago. I'd almost reccomend playing quake 3 online over quake 4 because it seems more 
 people play quake 3. I found most entertainment value from its single player.
  Overal its a great game, worth buying if you like an older style of fps. I loved it and would highly 
 reccomend it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mastercleft
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 17, 2006 4:03 am PT
Review:  Quake 4 is by far one of the best fps's out there its very easy to figure out and extremely fun 
 to play, this review is just based on singleplayer.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are absoultly amazing, the character models are definetly one of the highlights 
 of the doom 3 engine, and i really enjoy the atmosphere of the game. Also all of the textures are 
 very well done in the game and there are no low res textures when you get up close to a wall or 
 something. But there is one thing that really bothers me in the outside areas the backdrop just 
 looks like it was painted on, for instance you'll be in a large canyon with hills all around you 
 and then the backdrops are like watercolors of high tech cities. But that is very easy to look 
 past.
  
  Gameplay: the gameplay is really good, but because it uses the same engine as doom 3 it really 
 feels like doom in certain part of the games, expessially when you have no marines along side of 
 you, but doom3 was also a very good game so it doesn't make the game not fun. The story really 
 drives the game and makes you want to keep going and never gets boring no matter how far you are 
 in the game.
  
  Sound: The sounds are absoulutly superb. The voice actin really gives the characters personality, 
 and the weapon sounds are very crisp and are very good on he ears. and strogg voices also sound 
 amazing but do get repetive.
  
  Overall it is an extremely fun game and the very few problems are easy to get past, definatly the 
 bast in the quake series
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Exodia_Necross
Rating: 6.5
Date: May 16, 2006 9:51 am PT
Review:  16 players online prevents this game from succeeding expecially in a world of Battle Field 2 with 
 64 online per server in addition to Joint Operations with 150 per server. Graphics look great but 
 there will be no one to play with online.
  
  10 hours of single player just dont cut it anymore.
  
  With these two factors I really wonder 
 if they put any work into it or just changed the textures of Doom 3. This game is not creative 
 in any way. A warning is that there is no demo prior to release and the multi play lacks focus. 
 I think squad focused combat is close to being a minimum for modern shooters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Join_XtremePC
Rating: 7.8
Date: May 15, 2006 1:25 pm PT
Review:  Well, I was bored. So I decided to pick a random game out of my collection (84 games (pirated) ) 
 and I got Quake 4. So I reinstalled it, played a few levels, remembered it all, took some screenies 
 and now here I am.
  
  This game took me approximately 12 hours to complete, on hard difficulty. Now, without further 
 ado, heres my review of Quake 4:
  
  Contents:
  
  Introduction/Story
  Gameplay
  Graphics
  Sound
  Artificial Intelligence
  Pros/Cons
  Conclusion
  
  Introduction/Story 
 6/10
  
  Quake 4 takes place in the future at an alien planet. It starts off with you seeing pieces of your 
 comrades floating around in space, and then you crash-land at some unknown planet, where you regroup 
 with your fellow marines. Basically, your mission is to gain control over the territory and rid 
 the planet of aliens. IMO, the story is one of the weaker parts of this game. Basically, youre 
 only objective is to shoot, although sometimes, with logic behind it. Although, what you do throughout 
 the game is what you would probably do in real life, which is shoot the crap out of your enemies, 
 but I still feel that they couldve made a stronger story. The game really picks up when youre 
 three quarters through the game, but Im not going to spoil that for you. 
  
  Gameplay 8/10
  
  There isnt really much to say gameplay-wise. Its your basic run and gun 
 shooter. If youve played Doom 3 then you will find that this game is almost exactly like that, 
 it is the same engine after all, just add vehicles and much more open spaces, ultimately leading 
 to a much better experience than that of Doom 3s. 
  For those of you that havent played Doom 3, this game uses the usual health bar and armour. There 
 are a few med packs scattered throughout the levels. The guns in this game, I felt were extremely 
 weak and nothing new. When you were shooting them they just didnt feel at all powerful or entranced 
 you in any way. I preferred that of Doom 3s much more, even though they were practically the same. 
 
  Throughout levels, there are computers that can do certain tasks for you, ranging from healing 
 to opening doors to operating cranes and etc I liked how when you went over it you could see a 
 mouse pointer over the little screen and you can press the option you want. Nothing big, but I 
 prefer it much more than the usual method of pressing a button that can only do one task, such 
 as open a door. 
  As I had previously mentioned, the game introduces vehicles. They range from tanks to mechs to 
 flying bombing things. They are all a blast to drive, literally. Each vehicle has at least two 
 modes of fire. For instance, the tank will have the usual big blast from the turret and the machine 
 gun. Its always fun plowing down a big wall of enemies with a machine gun. 
  
  Graphics 10/10
  
  As Ive previously mentioned, Quake 4 runs on the Doom 3 engine, although 
 it has a few touch ups here and there. Set on ultra-high settings, the graphics are superb. The 
 character models and environments all looked extremely well and pleasant to the eye. The only con 
 I could really think of is that when you shoot some objects, their decals wont be proper. Like, 
 one time I shot a dead guy underneath a blanket and it made the same decal you would get from shooting 
 a concrete wall, but you would barely notice something like that, I was just playing around shooting 
 random objects at the time and happened to find that interesting. 
  The gun models and vehicle models all look great. I especially liked the many actions and animations 
 the weapons have, such as the big ball of black matter swirling around in the dark matter gun or 
 the ammo count and mode of fire display on some of the displays of the guns. 
  The indoor environments looked just like a carbon copy of Doom 3, maybe slightly less narrow hallways 
 though, still, for me, its not much of a problem. The outdoor environments were very well made 
 too. Such as dirt and sand blowing in the air as wind blew by and etc
  
  Sound 8/10
  
  It all sounded like it should, sometimes even better. If outside, you could hear the wind blow 
 by, or the crackling of your foot crushing sand underneath you. Indoors, you could hear the many 
 machines all around you working and doing their thing. The only real concern I have, is that all 
 of the weapons sound extremely underpowered and didnt make shooting a gun much fun at all.
  
  Artificial Intelligence 9.5/10
  
  Theres not much to say. Enemies would take cover when 
 under fire, peek out from corners, or go hide when injured. Sometimes, your enemies would even 
 walk over to health machines and get themselves healed. Your fellow marines would do many of the 
 same things, but there arent too many missions when youre fighting along side them. Sometimes 
 they would do stupid things such as shoot at a wall when the enemy was behind it, giving away their 
 position, but then again ours also. If the aliens or marines would hear footsteps or sounds of 
 the enemy they would become more cautious and alert, making it much harder to sneak past them. 
 Note: This was played on hard difficulty, so if you are playing on a different difficulty level 
 your experience may be different. 
  
  
  Pros
  -great graphics
  -cool vehicles
  -great turn of events near the end
  -nice AI
  -a lot like doom 3
  
  Cons
  -weapons sucked!
 
  -too much like doom 3
  
  Conclusion
  
  If you liked Doom 3, then you will definitely enjoy this game, since its practically the same 
 thing. If youre a fan of fps, sci-fi especially then I also recommend you pick this game up. Once 
 again, if the weapons were better, I wouldve enjoyed this game MUCH more.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: archvile700
Rating: 8
Date: May 14, 2006 11:45 pm PT
Review:  i was expecting to have a game that would completely destroy doom 3 in all aspects, mainly multiplayer. 
 what i found out is that this games multiplayer is a carbon copy of quake 3. there is no new content 
 other than new maps in multiplayer. everything from quake 3 has been "ported" to this game and 
 theres nothing new to it. not a single thing. but on the other hand, the single player is good, 
 but it left me wanting something more. im not saying that the game isnt good cause it, its just 
 that being a HUGE quake fan, i was just hoping that i woulda gotten more. but its still a good 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkhand7
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 10, 2006 12:44 pm PT
Review:  In the wake of Quake 3, #4 comes with something new and refreshing.
  To all the nay-sayers out there, I say, "AYE!"
  This game has it all. The fun factor of Quake 
 3, the great physics of the new Doom engine, the most awsome graphics I've seen in a while, and 
 very good enemy AI. Don't forget about the explosions....... mmmmm, explosions.
  The only downfall, and it is a minute one, is the multiplayer. It lacks a certain something Quake 
 3 had, but makes up for it in replayability. Love fragging those noobs.... lol.
  All in all, this near-perfect game is a must for any gamers collection.
  FRAG ON, my demented 
 bretheren! MUHAHAHAHAHAHA!........ sorry, got a little carried away. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cc_jjaayy
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 7, 2006 3:48 pm PT
Review:  everything but the graphics couldve been slightly improved.
  everything but the graphics couldve been slightly improved.
  everything but the graphics couldve 
 been slightly improved.
  everything but the graphics couldve been slightly improved.
  everything but the graphics couldve been slightly improved.
  everything but the graphics couldve 
 been slightly improved.
  everything but the graphics couldve been slightly improved.
  everything but the graphics couldve been slightly improved.
  everything but the graphics couldve 
 been slightly improved.
  everything but the graphics couldve been slightly improved.
  everything but the graphics couldve been slightly improved.
  everything but the graphics couldve 
 been slightly improved.
  everything but the graphics couldve been slightly improved.
  everything but the graphics couldve been slightly improved.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: titomag
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 6, 2006 10:19 pm PT
Review:  Here is another sequel to a great FPS series... Quake 4. The story picks up after Quake 2, and now 
 the marines can go and attack the Strogg planet, since the big gun and Macron was destroyed. Then 
 again, this game has some surprises in store for you. You are Mathew Kane, and you are part of 
 Rhino Squad, best dam team the humans have in a war like this. From the beggining, this game has 
 action... yes! i dont know why people compare it to Doom 3, maybe because of the graphics engine... but 
 i can say that this game looks alot better than Doom 3. Every thing has great detail, the walls, 
 the world, the enemies and humans, to the weapons and special effects. I remember seeing the trailer, 
 and i wanted this game so badly, and i did get it. But... i expected even more action. I wanted 
 to roam around the Strogg planet like if it where Battlefield 2, i wanted to fly the space ships 
 and bomb the hell out of those harvesters, i wanted to use a fast paced 4WD vehicle mounted with 
 a gatling gun, and not a slow ass convoy. Luckily, you get to use tanks and mechs, wich to me isnt 
 that much fun. This is a hardcore game, but most of the time your inside the Strogg's bases, and 
 it can feel like Doom 3 in a way. And if you go outside, its like your inside a very small canyon 
 wich prevents you from roaming the land. Only wide area is when you go to the Hannibal . The sound 
 and music in the game is great, the weapons are loud and awsome... yes! the weapons are great, the 
 nail gun dont look right, but its nice. The Strogg forces are fierce and will take cover or roll 
 to evade gun fire... these monsters are tough and mean, they show no mercy. The Multiplayer is good, 
 its the same quake 3 Arena. 
  
  I recommend this game if you want plenty of action and great weapons.
  
  Graphics:
  
  + 
 Impressive Graphics and high quality effects.. alot better than Doom 3.
  +/-has the advantage to play even on lower end graphic cards, but dont expect much if you dont 
 turn off shadows or lower the anisotrophy
  
  Sound:
  
  + sound quality is clear and the weapons are loud.
  + Awsome war music, even though most of the 
 tracks are the same, they are remixed and fit well with the war theme
  
  Game Play:
  
  +Multiplayer is fun... almost the same as Quake 3 Arena
  +Awsome weapons, You gotta love the weapons 
 in this game. Rocket launcher, rail gun, grenade launcher, machine gun etc.......
  + Strogg enemies are tough and will take cover and evade your gun fire at times.
  +/- Even though 
 you can use a mech and a tank, it isnt much fun, This game needed extreme action.
  
  Replay Value:
  
  -not much to do with this games once you beat it, 
  + MP has plenty of servers 
 and has punk buster support, new maps, mods and patches still being released. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brutalus7
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 6, 2006 4:24 pm PT
Review:  Quake 4 was another shooter that had me excited in the past 2-3 years. It takes no time at all 
 to see how much Quake 4 looks like Doom 3, thanks to the same engine being used, but Quake 4 has 
 a little more pollish overall, to the gameplay and graphics. It does a good job of advancing the 
 story from Quake II, and has a lot of fun moments, but there is nothing new or earth-shaking about 
 how it tells the story, except for (maybe) the stroggification. It doesn't add much to gameplay, 
 so that's why it's not that big of a deal.
  Your squad-mates seem to help more than usual in a FPS, but they aren't with you often. The story 
 and action is very linear, but that didn't bother me a whole lot, the story moves quickly, so it's 
 ok. The vehicle sequences were nice, but could have been longer, or had more of a point to them. 
 It was a little on the short side as well, but enjoyable to replay, and multiplayer is fun, so 
 it's ok.
  
  I guess overall, it would have been nice for it to be longer, but other than that, I can't ask 
 for much more. The story needed to be told, and that limits freedom. A great shooter in the Quake 
 series, but just a little more would have made it an awesome, timeless hit. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Quakemaniac
Rating: 10
Date: May 2, 2006 2:24 pm PT
Review:  One word, 
 
  Great graphics, great story, and a great multiplayer game.
  I played this at my friends house and i had fun shooting a rocket at a spider 3 times my size. 
 My friend couldn't beat the spider so I feel great that I did it and he didn't. Also, if u cant 
 shoot down the Strogg, u can run them over with the tank. (if you have one.) I will keep playing 
 this game every day until I beat it and i will have fun killing the Strogg. Also, this game has 
 great graphics with all the blood and gore. If you dont like this game, you are not a very good 
 person at first person shooter games then. (assuming since you dont like Quake 4.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AcydRaine
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 1, 2006 8:20 am PT
Review:  I have to confess that this is my first quake game although this game is a lot popular than I am. 
 What prompted me to buy it was the fact that it was ID software and the Doom 3 engine. This game 
 is just great from beginning to the end. The shooting in this game feels a little hardcore which 
 I love.
  
  Squad AI in the game is rather good and sometimes the do a better job than you which is a good 
 thing.
  
  Gameplay is great and the single player campaign is fun. I can get into the game and it is very 
 hard to get out because of its addictive nature. Level design was different than in Doom 3 but 
 sometimes I feel like I am playing Doom 3 because of the corridor scenes. Overall this is not Doom 
 3, this is Quake 4 and it has differentiated itself well. I love the variety of guns in the game. 
 The way the guns fire just makes me chuckle with happiness.
  
  The graphics is spectacular. One of the reasons that I love this game is the graphics engine which 
 works so well with nvidia cards.
  
  Sound is one of the things that I love about this game because once again if you have sound blaster 
 X-fi or sound cards that are capable of producing Open AL sounds then you will realise that I could 
 not describe it in this review. You have to play for yourself and Xperience it.
  
  The value of this game for me is in the multiplayer as many other games are. This is the first 
 time I am trying a quake multiplayer and I have to admit that it is fun, addictive and also extremely 
 annoying because sometimes I dont last up to 3 seconds. but once you start fragging people, it 
 gets a little devilish. You can almost see the grin on my face.
  
  This is a NICE game. Why did I use the word nice, because I am glad I have it in my collection. 
 Its just one of those games you cannot miss if you are a shooter for real.
  
  Quake 4 satisfied customer.
  
  -AcydRaine 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nhatanhle2003
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 30, 2006 11:10 pm PT
Review:  This game is undoubt the best game ever. Well, for a FPS game. The game's graphic engine is even 
 better than F. E. A. R. The thing i don't like is that the system requirement is way way too high. 
 That is what makes thousand of gamers can't play it. It is the system requirement, and some of 
 the rating content. I think that everyone should play this game, even if you don't like the bloody 
 scenes. The game ran smoothly on my machine. I used a Alienware with an AMD-FX60 Processor, 8 GB 
 of RAM, 2 NVIDIA GEFORCE 7900 graphic cards and 1 TG of hard drive space. IT  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadibm
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 30, 2006 4:06 am PT
Review:  Nothing to say about the game it self
  
  Quack 4 is really a fulltime challenge
  
  The atmosphere, the environments, are nicely introduced (as long as you have a 8 or above Pixel 
 Pipeline VGA)
  
  The game also give an exiting trip through space bases with different stages and a Varity of missions
 
  
  But I guess that playing Doom 3 and Resurrection of Evil earlier made me just satisfied to go out 
 and look for more
  
  Especially that this game didnt add that much to the game play
  
  And let's be frank, Doom 3 gave everything that were to be given in a game
  
  May be thats 
 why I gradually stopped being interested and hoping that one day I just might finish it
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bl1ndz0r
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 27, 2006 8:27 pm PT
Review:  Well what can i say this game got nice graphics, great sounds, is like doom3 without the annoying 
 scaring monsters
  
  The story is great, with some totally unexpected turnovers, the single player campaign is the main 
 pro of this game, u cant stop playign till u finish the game
  
  I loved how ur commando works with u and help u, and they communicate, there is even a touch of 
 humor in the conversations
  
  The controls are the same u saw in doom3 pretty easy to learn
  
  Now the Multiplayer is the 
 worst part of this game, first it is so dead, second is like another quake3 copy with better graphics, 
 it doesnt add anything new to the genre, i think the MP is more focused to competitive gaming not 
 to have some fun 
::::::

::::::
UserName: themubashir
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 27, 2006 5:50 am PT
Review:  So Where Should i begin....
  Ok ! The Game looks a lot like Doom 3 (Not That i m complaining ) , But Still it manages to deliver 
 some of the most exciting gameplay in an FPS and offers high degree of Fun which You r looking 
 for.
  
  STORY - In Quake 4 , you assume the role of Mathew Kane , who has been assigned the task to clear 
 the planet of the Stroggs, However a crash takes place and The team is scattered on a war torn 
 Planet. Now Kane has to fight his way and find his team. Matters become worse when Kane is captured 
 by the Stroggs and is transformed into one of them (The Transformation is the Highlight of the 
 Game) . However he is saved by his team. The rest of the Story is predictable. Quake 4 doesnt have 
 a very gripping storyline but it manages to keep the tension alive.
  
  GAMEPLAY - Gameplay in Quake 4 is what we call as Run - and - Kill shooter. However the A. I of 
 the Strogg's is pretty good. They actually Dodge the Bullets. There are a Number of Monsters with 
 different abilities , therefore making it more difficult for you to switch between weapons.
  Oh and talking of weapons the game has a wide variety of them which makes the game all the more 
 exciting. All weapons have different damage and therefore has to be used in a tactical manner while 
 fighting your enemies. The game looks intense in every way possible . To help you in your Mission 
 you will be helped by your Squad which makes the game look like Call of Duty ( of the Future) . The 
 game also features vehicles which can be fun at times. The Game is Tough at times , but i lovez 
 it that way.
  
  GRAPHICS - One of the best Graphics you'll ever come across. Quake 4 uses the same engine as Doom 
 3, However the textures are very much real. Althought the environments werent repetative it gave 
 you the same feel over and over again throughout.
  
  SOUND - The sound in Quake 4 is as good as it gets. Each and every theme suits the situation so 
 well making the battles all the more tense.
  However the Sound also feels that its borrowed from Doom 3. Its almost the same. The sound of the 
 weapons gives you a realistic feel.
  The voice acting is pretty good though nothing to boast about .
  
  To Conclude , Quake 4 is 
 recommended to all people who love fast- paced action and dont bother how good or bad the story 
 is.
  Its challenging and one of the best in its genre. This game is not as big as Doom 3 (the only part 
 which is different from Doom 3 :) ) , and offers around 10-12 hours of blasting and killing.
  
  THE GOOD - Challenging , Cool Weapons, Excellent Visuals and Sound.
  
  THE BAD - Short 
 , Fully Borrowed from Doom 3 , Not an engaging Storyline.
  
  This game is a good FPS, But it gives you the feel of playing Doom 3 all over again.
  All in 
 all a good game which doesnt dissapoint.
  SO GET READY ! AND LOCK AND LOAD BABY !
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dyvasey
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 25, 2006 5:09 pm PT
Review:  Quake 4 really is one of the most fun games to play online. Basically, it takes the cool arena 
 style combat from its predecessor and the UT series, and throws on modern blood and gore. The result 
 is the fast paced chaotic combat that still proves to be fun and addictive even after all these 
 years. With new maps being released regularly, and plenty of people playing, it's a lot of fun. 
 However, one has to mention that this multiplayer is hardly original and brings nothing new or 
 revolutionary to the table, but FPS multiplayer these days rarely does. Everything now is just 
 a remake of something else that was revolutionary long ago. However, the single player, while certainly 
 more than what Quake III called single player, is nothing that hasn't been before, and basically 
 feels like a faster paced doom 3 with fewer dark shadows. The game is certainly fun if you feel 
 like spending the money, but make sure you chekc out some of the better games around first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fl4rty
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 25, 2006 10:52 am PT
Review:  this game just smells like doom, except you have other soldiers helping you out, i did prefer this 
 game to doom apart from the fact that at one point in the game every mission is the same, get to 
 the top of the tower and push a button, there aint enough enemys, the idea of a weapon upgrade 
 is cool, especially how the shotgun handles towards the end, there are some impressive moments 
 in this game like the scene when you see the tower gaurdian chasing you in the elavator really 
 had me thinking oh crap i aint gonna have to fight that, theres other little elements that are 
 satisfying like, when you get turned you can read the alien writing. but these things do not make 
 for a good game, while momentarily being impressed, they soon fade. if its a choice between this 
 and doom, id pick this, but there are far better games out there like chronicles of riddick or 
 f. e. a. r and even farcry. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: koolgraphic
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 23, 2006 3:07 am PT
Review:  I have to confess that this is my first quake game although this game is a lot popular than I am. 
 What prompted me to buy it was the fact that it was ID software and the Doom 3 engine. This game 
 is just great from beginning to the end. The shooting in this game feels a little hardcore which 
 I love. 
  
  Squad AI in the game is rather good and sometimes the do a better job than you which is a good 
 thing.
  
  Gameplay is great and the single player campaign is fun. I can get into the game and it is very 
 hard to get out because of its addictive nature. Level design was different than in Doom 3 but 
 sometimes I feel like I am playing Doom 3 because of the corridor scenes. Overall this is not Doom 
 3, this is Quake 4 and it has differentiated itself well. I love the variety of guns in the game. 
 The way the guns fire just makes me chuckle with happiness.
  
  The graphics is spectacular. One of the reasons that I love this game is the graphics engine which 
 works so well with nvidia cards. 
  
  Sound is one of the things that I love about this game because once again if you have sound blaster 
 X-fi or sound cards that are capable of producing Open AL sounds then you will realise that I could 
 not describe it in this review. You have to play for yourself and Xperience it.
  
  The value of this game for me is in the multiplayer as many other games are. This is the first 
 time I am trying a quake multiplayer and I have to admit that it is fun, addictive and also extremely 
 annoying because sometimes I dont last up to 3 seconds. but once you start fragging people, it 
 gets a little devilish. You can almost see the grin on my face.
  
  This is a NICE game. Why did I use the word nice, because I am glad I have it in my collection. 
 Its just one of those games you cannot miss if you are a shooter for real.
  
  Quake 4 satisfied customer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: D1rty_Dawg
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 22, 2006 4:05 pm PT
Review:  Quake 4 is one of those games where it does not stray too far from it's predecessors and has cleverly 
 kept a lot of what made the older games great but in a newer and more updated style.
  
  This game is dark and twisted and it looks absolutely gorgeous. It is tough but ultimately it is 
 also a lot of fun to play. There is nothing complicated here, just go from room to room killing 
 pretty much everything that moves, pick up health and weapons and find the little 'evil alien' 
 icons that are littered all over the levels.
  
  A new feature for this game is the addition of vehicles which help to break the levels up a bit 
 and give you something different to do now and then. For me though, I loved the online play. It 
 is essentially just Quake 3 reloaded with an added sprinkling of returning Q3 maps but this is 
 not a bad thing.
  
  There are twleve maps to play over in total and although this does not sound a lot they are all 
 so well designed and laid out that you won't care.
  
  So what you have here is a very beautifully crafted game that looks amazing and does not require 
 you to do anything other than romp around the map killing anything you can get to stay still long 
 enough for in your sights. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danyalhk
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 22, 2006 1:18 am PT
Review:  great game. the cyborgs and the world rendering is awesome. but there are some issues with the multiplayer. i 
 think that id people put all their minds in the single player only. cool graphics and stuff like 
 that. but there are things they should have worked more upon like the pointy heads and those ugly 
 mountains. the vehilce sequence isnt that impressing as compared to other titles. at some places 
 the sounds are little choppy and old style .the loading sequence and the main menu is good. man 
 i loved that mech it was a real kick ass. the unlimited missile ammo. in short the game is worth 
 playing but has a weak plot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drewtwo99
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 20, 2006 6:41 pm PT
Review:  If you are unfamiliar with my scoring technique, please take a look at my review for Mario and 
 Luigi: Partners in Time. I explain it fully there.
  
  Story - 2 points
  
  Plain and simply, Quake 4 has a good story. The story gets full marks not because it is necessarily 
 the greatest story ever conceived for a first person shooter, but because it plays just enough 
 of a role to immerse the player in this world of Human vs Scrogg. On top of that, the story doesn't 
 get in the way of gameplay, which is always a plus. Besides, this isn't the kind of game where 
 you want the action to be constantly interrupted due to incessant cutscenes. Full marks here for 
 the story.
  
  Characters - 2 points
  
  Most FPS games rarely focus on characters at all, but Quake 4 does a great job in this category 
 as well. Throughout the game, you really get to know a few of your fellow soldiers and their personalities. 
 They'll make you laugh, and sometimes make you want them to die a painful and slow death, but the 
 characters come off overall as very polished. In addition to this, there are many random marines 
 that you will find that play no significance to the story whatsoever, but who have interesting 
 things to say to enrich the environment and make the game that much more realistic. This definitely 
 shows that the developers put a lot of work into the characters, which is why I give it full points.
 
  
  Sound - 1 point
  
  Not much to say about the sound on this game. It's definitely not bad by any means, but it sure 
 isn't memorable. It basically just gets the job done, so I don't have any reason to give it more 
 than one point.
  
  Gameplay - 2 points
  
  The game is fun. Just plain downright fun. From the moment you begin to the very end, you'll have 
 a great time running around killing things. Throughout the game you'll find various weapons that 
 will be largely familiar, but the upgrades that you'll receive for these weapons keep the gameplay 
 completely fresh. The environments are all done very well which definitely makes playing this game 
 very fun. There are no real puzzles to speak of, so there won't be any major frustration on progressing 
 through each of the levels. The special vehicle portions of the game help keep it interesting as 
 well. Overall a superb job on the gameplay, which is why I give it the full 2 points.
  
  Value - 0.6 points
  
  Having said everything that I have about the game thus far, it really 
 won't last you all that long. I finished it in 10-20 hours, and I haven't had any compelling reason 
 to go back and play it again. However, the game was a lot of fun the first time through, so I would 
 definitely recommend at the very least borrowing it from a friend if you don't feel like shelling 
 out the cash for it yourself. A worthy 0.6 points for value.
  
  Graphics - 1 point
  
  The graphics look great in this game, and they really work well to enhance everything in the game. 
 From the monsters to your allies, from the dark corridors to the sunny canyons, the graphics really 
 do look incredible, and are one of the high points of the game. If you're running it on a high 
 end PC, you won't be disappointed. 
  
  Bottom Line:
  
  The game looks great, plays well and is a lot of fun the first time through. After that, well, 
 if multiplayer is your thing then you might get a kick out of that. I however only reviewed this 
 for the single player aspect, so I am unable to say how good the multiplayer is. All in all, it's 
 worth your time, but maybe not the $50.00 price tag to anyone but the hardcore FPS fan. 
  
  8.6 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: POJO_MOFO
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 20, 2006 4:34 pm PT
Review:  I was not expecting much when I picked up Q4 for the first time. I played the heck out of Q3: A 
 a few years back and was excited about it, but i read all the bad reviews. I sat down and watched 
 the opening movie and thought it rocked. Then I got into the game and it was even better.
  
  The Gameplay is definitely top-notch. The pace is the exact opposite of FEAR. In FEAR you ran 
 around for 5 minutes and fought for 30 seconds. In Q4 you fight for 1 min. then run for 1 min. 
 then fight again. Very fast paced. The weapons are very fun to use and the old favorites are back. 
 There are tons of enemies. The enemies very from almost human looking Strogg to huge floating monsters 
 with dual rocket launchers that take a ton of firepower to bring down. I also love the vehicle 
 areas, each one is different and brings a different flavor to the table.
  
  The best thing about the game is the storyline and interaction with NPC's. This is the biggest 
 disappointment with FEAR, you feel so disconnected from everything. In Q4, you are in constant 
 contact with you friends (or enemies) and they often fight right along side of you. The story is 
 very well put together and you always want to know what is going to happen next.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkcloudestine
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 19, 2006 2:25 am PT
Review:  Exiting and inviting introduction, don't rush its your kill.
  Full mode downloaded amo to upload to unload on guards.
  Full of twists and turns of interlocking 
 masses and labyrinths.
  Full of deadly and suicidal sidesteps and traps.
  
  I wish it was real, like it will look bulky with all that loaded amo, just like the COMMANDO movie 
 of Arnold Schwarzenegger.
  Heavily armed guards ready to kill, with added aid if you want to go into the waters.
  
  Amo 
 looks like the combination of delta force and hellbender, play.
  It's rough with sun dust, mars or what.
  
  Red hot pepper, shivering ghostly appearance.
 
  
  speed increase with difficulty, best you climb, with added advantage of insight, go slow.
  
 
  Lots of gifts to refresh up with, take it , don't get bored.
  
  Chase before your are chased, kill.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lolgubbe
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 14, 2006 9:28 am PT
Review:  alright, this game is great not awesome and it combines a lot of weapons like machince gun, railgun, 
 nailgun, hyperblaster, rocket launcher, shotgun, grenade launcher, pistol and so on. and it's have 
 actually great graphics, you know the character models, weapon models and enviroments and everything 
 just looks great now awesome. and the sound is also great you know the dialog, the sound effects 
 when you fire a weapon and so on it's all great. the story begins where quake 2 lefts off and the 
 singleplayer campaign is good. after you're done with that or even if you're not done with that 
 then multiplayer is a blast it's extremely fast-paced and it's like quake 3 arena you know a lot 
 of jump-pads and extremely fast-paced and so on. the multiplayer is one of the reasons to buy this 
 game for. if you play multiplayer on the xbox 360 version then you can play on system link or xbox 
 live and if you play it on pc then you can obviousely play online or LAN, which means that you 
 create a server and let other peoples join it and having fun. quake 4 has a great multiplayer-component 
 and it's worth a look for everyone that looking for a extremely fun and fast-paced multiplayer 
 action. but it does have a quite good singleplayer as well 
::::::

::::::
UserName: indy00
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 11, 2006 6:56 am PT
Review:  Built on the same engine as Doom 3 there is no doubt that many reviews will equate the gameplay 
 experience that Quake 4 offers to Doom 3 itself. The argument has often been raised that Quake 
 4 is what Doom 3 should've been. Truth be told, there is a lot of merit to this argument. The environments 
 and atmosphere created within Quake 4 bears alot of similarities to Doom 3 but ultimately surpasses 
 it in every way.
  
  The story of Quake 4 is pretty cut and dry which can be a good or a bad thing depending on your 
 preference. The Quake series has never been known for its deep and engaging stories. Fans of the 
 series play the game for its fast paced action oriented design. In Quake 4 you assume the role 
 of Corporal Mathew Cane, a Marine who has been assigned to the Planet Stroggos to clean up the 
 remaining Strogg after the defeat of the Makron, however, it all goes wrong during the landing 
 sequence and you're left to re-unite with your team on the planet's surface. From there you continue 
 your mission to neutralize the Strogg forces and follow a few plot twists. The story isn't particularly 
 deep but should keep you interested enough to want to keep playing to see what happens. In all 
 the campaign is satisfying and should take you anywhere between 10-20 hours.
  
  Gameplay wise Quake 4 is a typical run and gun shooter. It doesn't try and add in anything particularly 
 revolutionary to the genre. You'll have your standard 100 health units and 100 armour units and 
 plenty of ammo to run around blasting your enemies to pieces. In this respect, Quake 4 has done 
 an excellent job in that the core shooting of the game is fast, action packed and will keep you 
 on edge. However, Quake 4 does manage to infuse some modern First Person Shooter elements into 
 it through a variety of weapon upgrades and some vehicle sequences which can sometimes be the more 
 fun parts of the game. The only major criticism that can be made about the gameplay of Quake 4 
 is that the missions and objectives can sometimes seem uninspired and exist simply for the sake 
 of being there. Additionally until you start getting upgrades for your weapons they can seem pretty 
 archaic, however, as you do later receive upgraes which vastly change their nature it is easy to 
 overlook this criticism.
  
  In terms of your arsenal, what can be said about the weapons in Quake 4. To say they are superb 
 is a mere understatement to the excellent design that has gone into their modeling, sounds, and 
 damage. Each weapon be it the tiny pistol or the all mighty Dark Matter Gun packs its respective 
 punch and you'll never feel like you're underarmed. Which is important for a game that is so focussed 
 on shooting. However, while many shooters may be content with offering stellar firearms, Quake 
 4 offers more. Throughout the games campaign you'll be receiving upgrades to your weapons that 
 vastly change their effectiveness and the way you use them. For example your nail gun is great 
 and packs a heavy punch but you later receive an upgrade to allow your projectiles to home in on 
 your enemies, sounds good, no?
  
  To say that Quake 4 is visual eye candy is one way of putting it but its much more fitting to describe 
 it as one of the greatest displays of next generation graphics. The textures are crisp and detailed 
 to perfection. Character models are high polygon and again have crisp textures with lifelike facial 
 animations. Lighting effects, as was the case in Doom 3, are simply stunning. As a result, the 
 whole world created is vibrant, full of color and believable. It would certainly seem that the 
 developer, Raven, went to great lengths to check over eveything with a fine toothed comb. The only 
 criticism that can be raised against the graphics is the same argument that can be raised against 
 Doom 3. The world maintains the super polished look that was so prevalant in Doom 3 and does take 
 away from the realism of the game. Engines such as Source avoid this problem and offer much more 
 blievable worlds, even within a sci-fi context.
  
  The sound design within Quake 4 is excellent and all makes sense within the context of the game. 
 Unlike Quake 4's prequel, Quake 2, the game has a mostly orchestrated soundtrack that matches the 
 action in the game very well. The boss battles tend to share the same main theme which is really 
 well composed and paints a scene of tension and adventure. Additionally the weapon sound effects 
 are superb. The machine gun really sounds like a machine gun should, loud and powerful. This same 
 excellent sound design translates to all the other weapons and not only when you're firing them 
 but also when you're on the receiving end. Suffice to say, when a bullet hits you, you'll know 
 it. In terms of the voice acting, its nothing special but its there is nothing wrong with it either. 
 You can expect the typical taunts and sci-fi chatter that typifies similar titles.
  
  With such an impressive performance on almost every level on Quake 4 its a little disheartening 
 to see that the game is not very difficult. Shooter veterans will likely have no problem going 
 through the game on hard mode for their first play through. The game fails to offer much challenge 
 in the boss battles which, truth be told, are mere annoyances rather than challenging fights. Its 
 sad to see that the most challenging parts of the game are when you're locked in an arena type 
 area fighting off overwhelming amounts of enemies. Additionally it seems that the game could've 
 offered more in terms of difficulty if the enemy AI was smarter. As a result Quake 4 does offer 
 some challenge but many gamers may feel that the game could've offered more in terms of difficulty.
 
  
  However, those flaws aside there is a lot of fun to be had with Quake 4. Despite the difficulty, 
 you'll likely find yourself playing through the various boss battles again if not to gaze at the 
 amazing looking boss models but just to experience them again. Additionally there is a full multiplayer 
 mode that is built off of Quake 3: Arena. Developer Raven decided to not mess with success and 
 it paid off with a multiplayer that is fast paced and incredibly fun. With an excellent multiplayer 
 mode and a campaign that is still fun to replay on a harder difficulty setting Quake 4 is a game 
 that certainly has a good lasting appeal.
  
  To conclude, Quake 4 is an easy game to reccomend for not only fans of the series but for anyone 
 that wants a great shooter to spend hours of quality time with. The story maybe simple but it keeps 
 you going and serves as a great vehicle to get you from one place to the next. There is an excellent 
 array of weapons to choose from and the graphics and sound design are some of the best the genre 
 has to offer. Despite being a little too easy at times the game is ultimately an immersive thrill 
 ride that will leave you satisfied at the end. Throw in an incredibly fun multiplayer mode and 
 its easy to see why Quake 4 is an excellent game that is easy to reccomend to any shooter fan looking 
 for another quality title to add to their collection. While Quake 4 may not re-invent the wheel 
 it sticks to its guns and delivers an incredibly fun experience for PC Gamers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: whadzen
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 5, 2006 1:37 pm PT
Review:  I was hesitant to play this game at first because it is on doom 3 engine and doom 3 was kinda dull 
 for me. But I have been blown away on how awsome this game looks. The storyline is pretty cool 
 and the shooting is old school. For some reason the storyline is not as immersive as in FEAR or 
 HL2 but still pretty interesting. Weapons feel and sound great. Sounds, voice acting is excellent. 
 And having soldiers fighting along you makes the game so much better. In summary, I am pleasantly 
 surprised and the game is way above any expectations I had before. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spawnleon
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 1, 2006 5:14 pm PT
Review:  Well i bought the game but....
  
  i dont have the materials it needs for the game but it looks awsome and looks like itll not be 
 forgotten ever in the world! well i mean come on how can u not like aliens that make peoples flesh 
 mixed with machines! the game looks wicked and u can be one of the aliens, i mean come on! WHO 
 DOES'NT WANNA BE AN ALIEN! And what also rules is that u can go on online and play with ure freinds! 
 the game is just the number one game ever for ID and RAVEN. to me its like raising hell all over 
 again like DOOM3.
  
  AND THAT GAME KICKS ASS! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gatzek
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 30, 2006 8:32 pm PT
Review:  This game was fun and the adrenaline/anticipation was flowing up through about 1/2 of the game 
 but some sequences were just ridiculously hard after that. I'm not a kid who plays games in all 
 my spare time and just don't have the reflexes that some of the sequences require (though I've 
 been playing shooters since Castle Wolfenstein) . Maybe people don't mind replaying a scene time-after-time 
 or using cheats but that gets really old.
  
  The fact that the lead character (you) doesn't say a thing may be part of the Quake mystique but 
 it's not creative. The squad interaction makes the game more interesting through 3/4 of the game 
 but after that you're on your own. 
  
  If you liked Doom 3 then the good news is that you'll probably like Quake 4 better. If you liked 
 Half Life 2, replay it again because Quake 4 isn't even in the same league as far as game play 
 is concerned. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FG6
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 30, 2006 4:27 pm PT
Review:  Quake 4 was good it was a addictive i the begining but towards the end the replay value drops when 
 you come to horribily annoying parts. I found myself playing it constantly to playing it for 2 
 or 3 hours a day at the most. Although the replay value dropped i still enjoy multiplayer mode 
 very much, the mulitplayer is very fast pace and much like quake 3, although i am slightly disapointed 
 they didnt put the vehicles in a few multiplayer levels i did still enjoy it. One of the better 
 parts of multiplayer is it actually takes skill to snipe. Overall Quake 4 was a good game though 
 it would be much better if they made it easier in some parts I give it an 8.5. It was good but 
 I didnt quite like it as much as some of the other FPS games out, but don't let that stop you from 
 buying it, it is definely good enough to buy, but if your going to get it, get it for the PC. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mimic-Denmark
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 30, 2006 11:07 am PT
Review:  Quake 4 is made from the same engine that made doom 3, and that engine still to this date is my 
 favorit, though the level design in doom 3 looks a lot better, but quake 4 has some very detailed 
 charecters, but mainly your allied soldiers, because they look amazing. But some how i think that 
 the foes in doom 3 look a lott better and way more detailed then the ones in Quake 4, but enough 
 of that detail thing :) Quake 4 still looks great. The game is solid sci fi fps fun, good story 
 and good action, and a good nostalagi game. The story is okay, nothing really exsiting, its basicly 
 a future world war 2 game with cyborgs :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jrjcobra
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 29, 2006 8:38 am PT
Review:  good mindless shooting action and it actually works properly with the hardware so looks good and 
 runs good. had very little technical problems if any
  
  I've never even played the second quake game but am hooked on it. multiplayer is pretty much the 
 same as before so nothing thats going to be new to anyone who plays it (lot of cheaters as before) 
 but the game has a solid single player mode. go ahead and pick it up it will be worth it. pretty 
 average after awhile but uses a good engine but probably won't get modded like quake 3 was. the 
 collectors addition even comes with the second game as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UnrealGwar
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 26, 2006 8:11 pm PT
Review:  This was my second time entering the quake universe. My first encounter with Quake was with Quake 
 2 for the N64. This is only slightly more fun than Quake 2. The graphics are fantastic, although 
 I don't know anyone (including myself) who can run it at full specs. I have played Quake 3 a little 
 bit and I would say that it is certainly more fun than Quake 4. This is one of the few games that 
 I have ever rushed out to buy... and man, was I disappointed. The single player part of Quake 4 
 just seems kind of bland and uninteresting. While the multi-player will keep you playing for a 
 couple of hours, the single player will make you pop in a better game like Half-Life 2 or Unreal 
 Tournament 2004 within an hour or so. I really have come to expect more from id software, but, 
 lets hope Enemy Territories: Quake Wars can rescue the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reignman
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 26, 2006 3:27 pm PT
Review:  i enjoyed this game. It wasn't the best game in the world and from time to time walking in the 
 same corridor gets boring but all in all it was fun. The graphics are amazing. From the guns to 
 the environments to the strog. 
  
  One of my main gripes with this game is that they do absolutely nothing with the fact the you are 
 now half strog. I mean you dont move faster or jump higher.. The only thing you get to do is to 
 get into some areas that "if you werent a strog you would be killed" . Not a big deal.
  
  the multi player is fun but i not really into the fast pace of Q4. I like COD2 multi player better. 
 But that is just a matter of my opinion
  
  If you enjoy FPS then pick up Quake 4 b/c it is definitely worth playing 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brandmon
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 26, 2006 5:48 am PT
Review:  Quake 4 , the folow up to Quake 2 is a great game overall. It have great grapics , good player 
 models , gory sounds and also great SP gameplay.
  it will get you playing with a human Marine called Mathew Kane (not like in quake 2, where the 
 character is unknown) .
  It has great enemy AI , good team AI where they will heal/repair you.
  and also many gore FX.
 
  If you want objective based MP in Quake 4 , than the answer to your prayere is no , but who wants 
 Exelent Q3 style deathmatch/CTF than you got the best. The maps are awsome , the new Dark Matter 
 gun gets pisics to its limits and the fun of killing.
  Over all if you like FPS game or like gore or even killing stuff , what you waiting for? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alber
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 24, 2006 9:38 pm PT
Review:  For some FPS players who have from 15 to 20 years old, Quake or Quake 2 was them very first FPS. 
 I remember when I was playing on the old Pentium 2 that my mom buy in 1999. It was the first time 
 that I saw a FPS and I found it very impressive. I played a bit Quake 3 when he was released but 
 I didnt like it because it has no Single Player missions. So, 7 years after I played the second 
 Quake, I started to play Quake 4 and I found it as great as the second in 1999.
  
  First, the Single Players let you take to control of Matthew Kane, a apace marine who has recently 
 been assigned to Rhino Squad. The missions start when your squad get extracted on a planet that 
 incrusted by enemies. Of course, you begin with small guns and more youre far in the game, more 
 powerful guns you have. It has a story in the campaign but it doesnt take a big place in the game 
 play. Youre more concerned by killing enemies than by understand the story. But, cinematic show 
 you the most important of the story. Even if the story doesnt take a big place in the game, its 
 necessary to have one as Quake 3 prove to our.
  
  Second, the Multiplayer mode isnt as good as I was waiting for. Its very very close from Quake 
 3. The game play of the multiplayer mode is the same than it the third and some map were adapted 
 from this one. Online, it has almost no people on servers even if many servers are opens. It would 
 be good to play in LAN when were a bit tired to play our principal game but not too long. So, 
 the Multiplayer mode isnt as good as I believed that it would be.
  
  Graphics and sound in the game are very immersive. I recommend you to play this game with a 5.1 
 Surround System as I didnt and you will forget to get slept while youre playing. The system requirement 
 are high do you need to have a good PC to enjoy it the most. If you have a good graphics card, 
 you will see that game graphics are great. I didnt find any texture bug or any collision bug. 
 What I found a bit disappointing is that it have some invisible walls. Theyre often there when 
 another marine doesnt move and you want to pass beside of him. So, except for the invisible walls, 
 the graphics of the game are very good and the sounds are well done.
  
  Finally, I likes this game. I think that many FPS players should play that game. Maybe if you like 
 play Rainbow Six style you wont like that game. The Single Player is very well done, graphics 
 and sounds let you very enjoy the game play but the Mutilplayer isnt as good and it should be. 
 Right now, I didnt finish it but Im still playing and I will probably try to finish it in the 
 most difficult level.
  
  alber
  06-03-25
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: iljandir
Rating: 7.4
Date: Mar 24, 2006 12:52 pm PT
Review:  This is a game with a lot of good things.
  The shooting is fun and the handweapon-fights are the things that are good here. The parts where 
 you are driving vehicles are not so good.. actually i eventually became very bored by those sequences.
 
  
  Unto another thing.. i was shocked by some of the gore in the game.. i am then thinking of the scenes 
 where your character is being basically butchered.
  I wont go into detail but i understand why this game has a 18+ age restriction in europe.
  
 
  The end is a bit dissapointing though.. you simply don't feel finished.
  
  A fun game.. but i don't regret waiting until the game became cheaper.. :p 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigHugeApe
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 21, 2006 8:11 am PT
Review:  With say, the exception of F. E. A. R., I've stopped playing FPS games for Single-Player for a long 
 time now. It's all about online Deathmatch, or variants of said mode. Therefore, I really have 
 no experience with Single-Player Quake 4. That said, I have played the Multi-Player Quake, and 
 while it brings nothing new to the table, it's still an enjoyable FPS Deathmatch experience.
  
  I've heard some people call it Quake 3 with a paint job. That may be true to an extent, but 
 hey, Quake 3 was no slouch, and to have a major graphics overhaul on a game you like playing? That's 
 a good thing in my book. There's not really much to say about Multi-Player as the weapon selection 
 and overall "feel" is essentially the same old Quake. But if you are a big Quake fan, then you'll 
 feel right at home and get into the game quickly.
  
  If you aren't a fan of FPS games, this one certainly won't convert you as it uses practically the 
 exact same formula as Quake 3 and to a lesser extent, Quake 2.
  
  While it may be disappointing that Raven and id didn't have loftier ambitions with this game, at 
 least they didn't break the formula they established.
  
  If you aren't a Quake fan, then perhaps you should look into something else like Battlefield 2, 
 F. E. A. R., Half-Life 2, etc. for your FPS experience.
  
  But in the end, I was happy with my purchase of this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: riyad_94
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 21, 2006 6:37 am PT
Review:  hey, this game rocks! i have the worst specs for this game. i have to play on low quality and lowest 
 resolution but all graphical things on and i still have a blast playing this game, i sit in front 
 of my comp all day playing it. i have got to say that this game has one of the best single player 
 mode of all the FPSs i've played, and i play all of them. the multiplayer is awesome. sure its 
 not as good as unreal tournament but its still pretty damn good. this game has amazing graphics 
 even on low quality. the sound is astounding and the gameplay is surly one you'll remember. i am 
 incredibly happy with my buy. i hope you will too when you buy it. this game should be a game to 
 be remembered for all time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctor_kaz
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 20, 2006 8:31 pm PT
Review:  Quake IV is definitely not a bad game. In fact, its really good. It has great graphics, great 
 weapons, good variety of enemies, and good shooting action.. But it also offers little that you 
 havent seen already. Its tightly scripted, and it feels a lot like Doom 3.5, with more speed 
 but less scariness. Enemies pop out of doors, teleport in, or crash through ceilings at prescribed 
 times. You blow them away, then you push a button on a console, kill two more scripted enemies, 
 and then you move on. The graphics and lighting are excellent, and so are the powerful weapons, 
 but they are somewhat wasted on tight corridors where you usually just fight between one and three 
 enemies at a time. Forget about playing a game where you scamper around and blow away a dozen enemies 
 at a time into bloody chunks. This game just doesnt offer that. 
  
  After playing this game, one thing is clear to me: The Doom 3 engine has no versatility. This game 
 looks so much like Doom 3 that its ridiculous. It has the dark shadows and bright lights in tight 
 corridors everywhere look to it that defined Doom 3. (This game is definitely not as dark as Doom 
 3 though) . It also has the NPCs with ultra-pale faces, and shades of brown and grey everywhere 
 you look. 90% of the level design is tight corridors and small little rooms, with some button pushing 
 and elevator riding here and there to move things along. There are, occasionally, some short-lived 
 first-person vehicle sequences, but these too, are pretty tightly constrained and dont involve 
 much actual handling of the vehicle. You just keep on moving forward and blast anything that gets 
 in the way. Its too bad, because there are some areas where this game could have used a lot more 
 space. For example, when you enter a room and there are two big enemies that shoot at you with 
 rail guns. Theres hardly anywhere to strafe or run to, so you basically just switch to your biggest 
 weapon and blast away as fast as you can. That you often only have five feet to move in any direction 
 is this games greatest shortcoming. 
  
  Quake IV makes up for its shortcomings in all sorts of ways though. For starters, its an excellent-looking 
 game, despite some weird effects and repetitive areas. Some aspects of the game look spectacular. 
 Specifically, the body armor that your fellow marines wear looks so cool and realistic that you 
 can practically reach into the screen and touch it. The large variety of enemies that the game 
 has also look amazing and are convincingly animated. Towards the end, the game also has some pretty 
 creepy and well drawn environments.
  
  Any first person shooter needs to have a great collection of weapons, and Quake IV is no exception. 
 This game has an excellent group of loud, powerful, and cool looking weapons that you can blast 
 your way through just about any situation with. They arent all that original, but they just feel 
 really good. There are the FPS staples of the base pistol, assault rifle, shotgun, rocket launcher, 
 etc. Then, there are a few less common weapons like a nail gun that can track opponents with its 
 alt-fire mode, a lightning gun, and something like a black hole gun. Some of them are harder to 
 use though, like the grenade launcher, because you are often in so many tight spaces. 
  
  You can use your weapons on a surprisingly large variety of enemies. They are gradually introduced 
 to you throughout the game, so that even towards the end of the game, you are seeing new enemies. 
 Some of the enemies are pretty ordinary, but others are special. The Stroggified marines, in particular, 
 are pretty ugly looking and mumble in a creepy way so that you can usually hear them around the 
 corner. Some of the bigger battles at the end of the game have you fighting small numbers (three 
 or four) of diverse enemies at a time. This is where the game really shines  when the difficultly 
 level ramps up and the action gets more frantic. 
  
  Quake IV starts off a bit on the slow side, but as you collect better weapons and fight more enemies, 
 it gets more interesting. The final few levels are the games best. The game has pretty good length, 
 but never gets too dull. It took me about 12 hours to finish the game, and theres not much filler 
 in there. 
  
  I would still recommend Quake IV, but with games like F. E. A. R., Half-Life 2, and Far Cry having 
 raised the gameplay bar in this genre, this game can only be seen as very good, but not spectacular. 
 It doesnt help that the engine that the game is built on only seems to excel at rendering small, 
 enclosed areas with only three or four enemies at a time. Quake IV is still a solid choice for 
 you if you are a fan of the genre, especially first person shooters. Just dont expect anything 
 revolutionary. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xlaten
Rating: 7.3
Date: Mar 19, 2006 10:35 pm PT
Review:  May contain spoilers..
  
  I have beaten this game once and am currently in the process of playing through it again. 
  
 
  This game starts out fast and hard, not much of an intro they expect that you've played the previous 
 quake games which I had not. Your spacecraft was shot down and you have been seperated from your 
 squad and have to reunite with them.
  
  It's basically mission after mission to somewhat weaken the enemy alien Strogg forces. These missions 
 don't leave much to the imagination, go there and blow that up, thats about it...
  
  This game offers alot of non-stop action and doesn't give you alot of time to sit back and appreciate 
 the great visual accomplishment the game really is. It keeps throwing wave after wave of the same 
 dull alien forces at you which offer little in the area of difficulty and AI. There are alot of 
 times while playing this game where you will really want some downtime from all the nonstop shooting 
 but you wont get much.
  
  There are very few cutscenes and this game really doesnt develop any story at all if there is even 
 any? I couldnt find any story element in this game...
  
  The sound in this game is alright, nothing great the aliens always make the same exact grunts the 
 voice acting of the marines is pretty good. 
  
  Many have compared this game to Doom 3, they share alot of similar elements, dark settings, and 
 creepy enemies. This game is just missing something that doom 3 had, maybe its the fact that in 
 the year 3000 or whatever they have finally found a way to attatch a flashlight to a gun. You just 
 wont find yourself on the verge of wetting yourself while playing this game.
  
  If your looking for a nonstop shooter and dont care much for substance and have tried all the other 
 recent shooters pick it up. Otherwise steer clear of this! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: j-miller
Rating: 6.7
Date: Mar 19, 2006 4:23 pm PT
Review:  After reading the Hands On article of Raven's and id's next Quake installment, I was jumping up 
 and down with anticapation and almost peed myself! But after reading the Holiday 2005 issue of 
 PC Gamer and found the exclusive review, I was disappointed. After that I decided to buy the game 
 myself and after beating it I soon found out why it deserve the 70% score rating. Quake 4 is RETARTED! 
 Not by graphics, but by uninspiring gameplay, a plot that goes nowhere, and vehicles that have 
 a basic control scheme. Plus the boss battles are short and easy to accomplish. Quake 4 was such 
 a stupid game, that it was fortunate to have a score rating that is not below 6.0. The graphics 
 and the weapon upgrades are the only good things about Quake 4. My personal favorite was the shotgun 
 upgrade because of a faster reload. The Strogg Maidens were the only Stroggs that were at least 
 more fun to kill. The biggest flaw was the Stroggafication plot twist that was pointless and somewhat 
 anticlimatic. In the end of the game you don't return back to a human for some reason. In fact 
 just imagine a human/strogg hybrid walking around in a human environment. Just think what will 
 happen. Will he be shot at? Or will he start a riot? I mean keeping Matthew Kane as a Strogg hybrid 
 was a dumb idea for Raven. It's like I said earlier, "how anticlimatic!"
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jim345
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 18, 2006 10:27 am PT
Review:  First off, I would like to say that the graphics are really good for this game. Now that I've said 
 that, I don't like the looks of the game still, sure lights are cool and all but the point of good 
 graphics is to imerse the gamer, that just didn't happen for me. Its got an almost cartoony look 
 (not tom and jerry cartoon, but still) .
  That aside buy the game goddamit, the single player is fast paced and actually made me jump once.... 
 There was a bad guy in an elevator that i was waiting for and he just clobbered me: P.
  Multi player is a little too fast for me, but its what its supposed to be, a fast paced arcade 
 style game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ketsapoulse
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 18, 2006 6:38 am PT
Review:  
  You must protect the earth from the enemies invasion .
  Fantastic game with too many goods that I'm gone talk about it : 
  1- graphics : perfect graphics 
 with AA system and special effects .
  2 - sounds : the are superb from world , persons , weapons sounds and music .
  3 - physics : 
 great physic engine of movements .
  4  game play : superb game play during online or single player and the game have great story 
 line .
  The bad thing : there is no bad things at all .
  My Last Word Is : perfect game with great story line witch deserve to be played .
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BIGnintendoFAN
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 17, 2006 10:32 am PT
Review:  Game features:
  
  + An amazing single player campaign but gets a bit too repetitive towords the end 
  - It has 
 a completly uninspired multiplayer that is almost an exact duplicate of Quake 3 except it plays 
 worse
  + A very impresive graphical presentation
  - Of which is one of the biggest system hogs to date
  + It renders dark and gloomy areas very 
 well and always wanting you to never let go of the flashlight
  + Some of the most detailed enviroments from huge pillars and flesh to the smallest scrath on a 
 pipe
  + Some pretty caotic fights can be found
  - Awfully long loading times
  +/- A decent story but some of which don't make sense and can be hard to follow
  - Game requirs 
 you to restart Quake 4 for every change you make 
  
  Quake 4 is an impressive game to say the least. It is the latest installment to the Quake series 
 and is powered by the same engine that DOOM 3 runs on. The game follows a similar plot to Quake 
 2 but has more explanations and goes into much finer details.
  
  Quake 4 immerses you into the struggle between the humans and the strogg. You are Matthew Kane, 
 a member of an elite squad that are sent to invade the stogg's homeplanet, but its not as easy 
 as it sounds with many twists and turns but the only hero who won't be leaving as a human is you.
 
  
  The game plays pretty much like most 1st person shooters do. You start of with a weapon, you run 
 around and shoot things, pick up another gun and progress in a linear fasion until you can progress 
 no more. So realy there is nothing about Quakes gameplay that realy stands out but it does do a 
 good job at many things.
  
  For instance, alot of the game is set in dark areas. This forces some stragetic action because 
 you do have a flashlight to see in the dark but the problem is it only works on two weapons, the 
 pistol and the machine gun. The game does do an execlent job of rendering dark areas and gives 
 you that "whats lurking around the corner" feelling so your always wanting to be cuatious because 
 you never know when the enemy will show up.
  
  The game is full of surprises, you never know when something might go wrong. At one minute you 
 could be just trotting along when suddenly a strogg comes from the other side of that fence, jumps 
 onto it and goes to attack you but you have an oportunity to blow it off with a shotgun. At one 
 point you are about to destroy the core of the strogg (the nexus) with a huge emp only to be ambushed 
 by a gaint strogg like machine creature and hanging on for your life.
  
  For the most part in Quake 4, you will be using the machine gun because it carrys the flashlight, 
 its fast, its durable, it carrys alot of ammo and it works good at pretty much any range and for 
 the first half of the game its all you need. But the game does make you think strageticly what 
 weapon to use for the right situation. For example, you could be going across thin corriders so 
 you can just blow your enemies with a shotgun or you may be faced with an onslought of strong strogg 
 ready to be taken out with that rocket launher or to face many of thoose strogg hidding behind 
 crates so you could just take 'em out one at a time with the railgun.
  
  However in Quake 4 quite a few of the weapons feel underpowered, for example the lightning gun 
 is no longer that super awsome distructive weapon you had in Quake 3, now it is just a weapon that 
 requirs 50 ammo or so to destroy a small strogg.
  
  The enemy AI in the game is good and varied, but are a little to predictable to know what enemies 
 will sneak up on you and what enemies (which most of them will do) will charge straight at you. 
 Your teammates don't do pretty well, and they are either indistrucable or weak. They will either 
 follow you (when you are asked to take point like in all games) or run into the open were all the 
 strogg are. But you are often pitted in some frenzic fighting action with that strogg dodging over 
 there whilst another charges right at you.
  
  So all this is packaged into a fantastic single player campaign, tough the action is pretty much 
 the same towords the end. However, the multiplayer leaves alot to be desired. For starters, there 
 is no offline mode for it it may take a while for newcommers of the series to get used to it. It 
 also feels less fun, the machine gun just does not feel right and neither does the grenade launcher. 
 They seem signifiancly underpowered. Not to mention there are far less maps than Quake 3. So if 
 you want to play Quake multiplayer, Get Quake 3.
  
  Besides the bad multiplayer, the game looks absolutly impressive, infact it is one of the best 
 looking games for the PC to date. Consequently, it is also one of the biggest system hogs to date 
 so your not gonna want a graphics card no older than a GeforceFX 5800 and your gonna need quite 
 some RAM to deal with thoose attrocious loading times.
  
  Another bad thing about the game is that any change you make to the game besides setting the controls 
 will requir a game restart for the changes to take effect, that means going trough all thoose long 
 loading times just for your desired rail couler.
  
  Despite the high requirments for the graphics, you wont need much other than a high volume and 
 surrond sound setup to enjoy the thrill of the screams, the blazin' guns and the grunting of strogg 
 plus flesh meets metal effects. Yes the sound is pretty good altough it could of done with some 
 background music, yes most of the time there is no music, occasional some eery music or suspicion 
 music or the music thats sound when you encounter a boss fight.
  
  Speaking of boss fights, they are a real fun point in the game. It may be obvious of the boss that 
 you will be faceing or it may be a surprise. The boss fights are often intense, from when your 
 hidding for dear life to clicking the last few bullets of your machine gun when hes almost dead. 
 However the boss fights are rather unbalenced, boss fights are very, very hard to complete that 
 is unless you know how to defeat the boss. Once you know how then it is a piece of cake and the 
 experiance don't last too long.
  
  So thats Quake 4, it is a solid shooter that also includes two vehicle sequances which are aload 
 of fun to do. This game is hard not to reccomend and anyone who is a fan of the Quake series, shooter 
 or if your just wanting a fast and furious shooter then Quake 4 is the game for you.
  
  Writters Comments:
  
  I absolutly love this game, It don't just do well in the action but it 
 also does well in the (not egxactly) cutscenes, man I cannot stop wacthing the transformation in 
 the medical facility.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Skeept
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 15, 2006 6:57 pm PT
Review:  I played Doom3 and its expansion and i loved them, then came along Quake 4, wich is almost as good 
 as the other two, it kicks you in to action at the very begining not like most games, if youre 
 not ready you can get yourself wasted pretty quickly, wich sets it apart from other games were 
 it takes while before you get some real action, it has a nice vast arsenal for you to shoot some 
 strogg, the down part is that its jusst too plain easy, even on a high difficulty level you can 
 still kill a strogg while it moves, even if it a big one, but besides that its quite a very good 
 game, it gives ID software the name it deserves just like doom. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryaz_weaponx
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 15, 2006 7:58 am PT
Review:  INTRO - Youve been playing WWII shooters like Call Of Duty, Medal Of Honor to quench your thirst 
 for a war based environment. but ever wondered what would war be like in the future through the 
 eyes of a Marine, then Q4 is THE game for you.
  
  STORY & OBJECIVES - Earth is under attack by the STROGG, an alien race that consumes anything & 
 everything in its path. In a desperate attempt for survival, earth has taken the war to the aliens 
 home planet. You play Matthew Kane a member of an elite Rhino squad, one of many sent to the alien 
 world. Through all the blood & gore you soon realize that in order to defeat them is to become 
 one of them.
  
  GRAPHICS  Quake 4 is built on Ids DOOM 3 technology. Quake 4s graphics are just outstanding, 
 the only way to describe them are life like & highly detailed. From your gun to the environment 
 everything gives you a touch of reality.
  
  SOUND  Voice actings & sound effects are just great, giving you a depth of a war torn planet 
 & struggle for survival. If you have an EAX control option on your sound card its proves to be 
 a real treat.
  
  GAMEPLAY  Whats it like moving around in the world of Quake 4? The answer is, you got to play 
 it to believe it. Quake 4s engine, in reality puts you in the shoes a soldier of the future, moving 
 around with his squad, taking orders & executing them. The feel is just amazing. You get to choose 
 a variety of guns as your weapon of choice & if that doesnt get you going, then you can opt for 
 heavy vehicles & robots to take down the Alien scum. The real action begins when you actually turn 
 strogg (the transformation is just too good too be true) but some how its not that captivating 
 as the only advantage of being a strogg is a 50-point boost in health, armor & speed. No additional 
 strogg weapons leave the game incomplete. On the whole Q4 leaves you craving for more but you dont 
 get any, as the Single player mode is quiet short. (only 10-15 hrs of gameplay) . The multiplayer 
 modes are nothin worth talkin bout since its just like that of Q3 ARENA'S.
  
  PROS  Life like graphics & sound. An amazing single player mode, Gives you the opportunity to 
 live a war field of the future. Strogg transformation sequence. Good replay value.
  
  CONS  Short gameplay, Strogg play could have been better, loose canon multiplayer modes. 
  
 
  VERDICT  A few disappointments aside, Quake 4 still turns out to be a game of TOMMOROWS.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: wolflegresley
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 15, 2006 6:56 am PT
Review:  PROS:
  -Neat story line... gets captivating
  -10 unqiue and visualy appealing weapons... and finally for a first time in a long time you can 
 use the fancy weapons as a normal weapon rather then just the shotgun/machine gun... making this 
 truly fun.
  -The graphics in this game as for visuals are amazing,
  -Several Levels in which you drive diffrent vehicles
  -A ton of diffrent enemys so you never 
 get bored of killing cannon fodder
  -A gauntlet like level where you do an obstcale course through the strogg base.
  - Some of the 
 weapons are upgradable so essinatlly you use 16+ Weapons that are all very unique.
  -Exellent speech movemnt of the lips of your comrades
  -Soldiers on your side are fun and offer 
 you upgrades/health/armor
  
  CONS:
  -There are parts of the background that are less then perfect visual quality wise.
  -The game 
 can be demmanding on a pc system, but a 6600gt ,3200amd should be sufficent for a VERY enjoyable 
 experiance!
  -The vehicles dont have much diffrence from one another, and the unlimited missiles/bbullets in 
 them take away the strategic edge.
  -The vehicle levels tend to be excisvly long
  
  So all and all a few neat things, good game, definatlly worth playing even if youve played every 
 other fps out there.. its a fun game, Nothing too new, but definatlly visual appealing, story is 
 good, everything you need for a good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sotnick955
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 14, 2006 2:37 pm PT
Review:  Quake IV is an amazing Sci-Fi, first-person shooter! It had everything: sound, graphics, guns, 
 gore and more. From the moment the game started till the very end there was non-stop action. There 
 was constant interaction with other characters that kept the storyline moving smoothly. There werent 
 any confusing maps or stealth modes to get hung up on. There was only one point to the story and 
 that was to kill as many of the enemy as possible. The levels were constantly changing terrains 
 and with it came different enemies. The graphics and sound quality were amazing. I will be playing 
 this game again and again! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _Trav1s_
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 12, 2006 11:56 pm PT
Review:  Well gang, you've been waiting for it for many months but finally Quake is here. Enter the world 
 where evil becomes reality and horror is life and suddenly you've become one with the nightmarish 
 world of Quake. You start the game in medium sized chamber with 3 paths before you, each with a 
 glimmering portal at the end. Depending on which one you take, the difficulty of the game is decided 
 between easy, normal, and difficult (the difference being how many monsters there are) . Now, since 
 I know this is the first question on many of your minds, let me just ask and answer it. "How are 
 the graphics in Quake? Are they better than Duke Nukem 3D?" To answer let me just say, "You will 
 spooge as advertised."
  
  Graphics in Quake range from low resolution VGA graphics to high resolution SVGA resolution. This 
 and many other of the games higher functions can be changed via the console which made it's first 
 appearance in the Quake Test (it's much more refined and responsive now though) . In fact, at maximum 
 resolution, my computer slowed down noticably (not enough to make the game unplayable, but you 
 get better performance at slightly lower resolution with no degradation of graphics) . Please note 
 here, you must have a Pentium processor (or Pentium Pro) to run Quake (according to id) . However, 
 others have told me that they got the game to run fairly well under high speed 486 systems in VGA 
 mode. There may be no exceptions for SVGA mode though as idSoftware built Quake around the Pentium 
 processor and it's floating point processor (32-bit action at its finest) . Oh, I almost forgot 
 to answer that second question above, yes, Quake does make Duke Nukem 3D a 2nd place finisher in 
 the way of graphics (sorry DN3D guys, you made a great game but id has outdone you here) . However, 
 Quake isn't the awe-inspiring game that id promised either as it lacks many of the engine and graphics 
 improvements which they promised.
  
  Gameplay is slightly different from DOOM 2 or even Hexen. This new game engine allows for much 
 more refined control using the keyboard, mouse, etc. Even your soundcard is setup automatically 
 when you run the game (as long as you have the proper environment variables setup on your Soundblaster 
 -- the game only supports Soundblaster or 100% compatible cards (in version .91) . You can configure 
 the keyboard to any keys you desire and the game will also keep it's defaults, so that you can 
 use either. In fact, you can change the games video mode during gameplay with no graphical errors 
 or flickers. 
  
  Monsters in Quake look great! Creatures are very highly detailed right down to facial hair on the 
 humans and move in very realistic fashion. When you shoot them they wince and act out where they 
 got hit, unless you're using the shotgun -- it's pretty much a pellet spray of death. There is 
 also armour in this game which looks not only cool, but can seriously save your hide in a firefight! 
 As in DOOM games, Quake also contains boxes of healing and various ammo boxes filled with the stuff 
 you need to kick some major booty! There are several weapons in the game, the most notable (because 
 I found them first, not necessarily cause they're the best) are the ax (yes, for hacking your enemies 
 down) , the nailgun (very lethal) , and the double-barreled shotgun (double your pleasure with 2 
 barrels of pellet filled death) . 
  
  Many of you and others on the Net have played Quake and decided that it sucked and that you hated 
 it (and then you wrote me to complain) . However, many of you who have written seem to have not 
 read how we judge games via our page. We don't rate games on what they lack, don't let you do, 
 or if they are missing what they were supposed to have -- we rate them on what they do let you 
 do and how well they let you do it. Many of you seem to have thought Quake was going to have exactly 
 the same elements of Duke Nukem 3D. What would have been the point of that? Others have stated 
 that Quake sucks because it's a DOOM clone with better graphics -- at least this may be a valid 
 argument. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: killantro
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 11, 2006 9:49 pm PT
Review:  Quake 4 is a great FPS that looks great, sounds great and is a whole lot of fun.
  
  Quake 4 is a continuation of the war against the alien race known as the Strogg. The game has you 
 playing in the shoes of a marine named Mathew Kane who is a "certified badass". As one would expect, 
 Kane kills and kills his way to the end of the game. The campaing is very run and gun, no holds 
 barred action. Most of the game is spent blasting aliens although there is some light platforming 
 involved but it is never boring or repetitive. Also during the course of the campain are sections 
 in which you take control of vehicles. These sequences really get your adrenaline flowing as they 
 are very fast paced and feature a lot of action. Another thing to note about the campaingn is that 
 it is fairly legthy, clocking in at about 10-15 hours which is great for a game like this. 
  
  On the multiplayer side, if you like straight balls to the wall deathmatch, this is your game. 
 The action is fast paced and it is easy to jump into an enjoable online game. The Gamespot review 
 complained about old "1999" mutiplayer but its still fun as all hell.
  
  The graphics are great if you have the system for them. On my Athlon 64 3500+, 6600GT, 1 Gig ram, 
 this game looks great. It runs ib hight at 1024*768 resolution smooth as butter with only only 
 some minor hicups. The game also sounds great. The sounds for the guns are awesome particularly 
 the machine gun. All guns sound powerful and give you the feeling that you are actually wielding 
 these powerful guns.
  
  All in all this is a fantastic game. If you like run and gun FPS's then you will definitely love 
 this game. It is a must buy if you have a good computer and like FPS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: markiemarkie231
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 10, 2006 5:58 pm PT
Review:  
  
  While Doom was the game that would make id Software a gaming-household name in the early '90s, 
 over the years, the company shifted its focus away from the Doom games. As PC hardware and 3D acceleration 
 became better and better, id became much more focused on engine development. Those engines were 
 the underlying technology that powered the games in the Quake series, which began in 1996. Quake 
 was among the first PC first-person shooters to let you take your multiplayer matches onto the 
 Internet, and over the years, the series has become synonymous with great technology and exciting 
 multiplayer. Now, in 2005, the roles of id's games have reversed a bit. The company's most recent 
 engine is the one built for Doom 3, and Quake 4 runs on this same engine. Furthermore, Quake 4 
 wasn't even developed by id internally; it instead outsourced game development to the capable minds 
 at Raven Software, who have turned in a fantastic-looking game with a great single-player campaign. 
 The multiplayer, however, is underwhelming.
  
  The single-player will put you up against some crazy-looking foes.
  
  The three previous Quake 
 games have all had very little to do with one another. The first game's story almost felt more 
 like a retelling of Doom, dealing with inappropriately opened portals that spew out all sorts of 
 horrific demons. Quake II ditched that storyline in favor of an Earth-versus-alien conflict that 
 had you crash-landing on the alien homeworld in search of revenge. Quake III Arena was multiplayer 
 focused, with no true single-player storyline other than that a wide collection of warriors -- some 
 taken from the Doom and Quake games -- had been pulled out of their own timelines and into this futuristic 
 battle arena. Quake 4 doubles back and picks up where Quake II left off. That nameless space marine 
 from Quake II has apparently killed the Makron, the leader of the Strogg forces, and now it's up 
 to you to get in there and try to finish the job. But, of course, things aren't quite what they 
 seem.
  
  In Quake 4, you play as a space marine named Matthew Kane, who has recently been assigned to Rhino 
 Squad. In keeping with first-person shooter storyline tradition, Kane doesn't speak, but the marines 
 around you will more than make up for the lack of chatter coming out of Kane's lips. You're the 
 new guy, and some of the squad's even betting that you won't even survive for one day. With the 
 Makron assumed dead, your squad is taking part in an operation to take advantage of the disarray 
 and mop up the rest of the enemy forces on the Strogg planet. But your drop ship gets hit and comes 
 down hard, killing a large chunk of your squadmates at the opening of the game. From there, you'll 
 pull yourself up out of the muck and get down to business.
  
  Eventually, your squad will get extracted back to a capital ship for reassignment. Here, you'll 
 get to explore the ship, similar to how you could explore Voyager in Raven's Elite Force games. 
 Then you're back out on a new mission designed to disrupt the Strogg communication network. And 
 the story continues from there. While the story itself isn't particularly gripping, it's designed 
 well enough to keep you interested in what's happening. There's also a potentially interesting 
 plot twist in the game that, unfortunately, was revealed by id Software almost immediately, when 
 the company first started talking about and showing off the game. We won't repeat it here, in case 
 you've managed to stay away, because we have to imagine that the twist would have been a lot more 
 interesting if you didn't see it coming. Just know that a few interesting things happen in the 
 game, but they don't totally change the way the game is played or anything like that.
  
  For the most part, Quake 4 is a standard, straightforward shooter in its single-player mode. While 
 the minute-to-minute objectives might not be the most interesting thing in the world, the game's 
 combat is generally pretty satisfying. It's almost as if Raven set out to prove that the Doom 3 
 engine could do more than just constantly try to surprise you, one enemy at a time. That's not 
 to say that Quake 4's hallways are littered with angry enemies, but Quake 4 is definitely a much 
 more hectic game than Doom 3 ever was. While you'll still deal with a lot of shadowy areas, this 
 is less about making you jump out of your seat and more about running and gunning. When matched 
 with the game's amazing graphical design, the single-player becomes an exciting thrill ride that, 
 on the default difficulty setting, should take you somewhere around 10 to 15 hours to complete.
 
  
  Yeah, the multiplayer looks better than Quake III did, but that's about it.
  
  In the end, first-person shooters still come down to their armory. In Quake 4, you'll be armed 
 with a fairly standard collection of weapons that may have originated in the Quake II universe -- but 
 that doesn't mean they're all identical. You'll start the game with only a blaster, which has infinite 
 ammo and can be charged up for a more powerful shot. But this quickly gives way to the machine 
 gun, which is versatile enough that you'll probably be relying on it throughout the entire game. 
 That's mostly because the machine gun has a flashlight mounted on it. Even though the game isn't 
 trying to spook you by having enemies jump out of the shadows, seeing better is always a good thing. 
 Plus, lighting up some dark corners is a good way to find extra ammo and armor.
  
  You'll eventually get a shotgun, a grenade launcher, the energy-powered hyperblaster, a rocket 
 launcher, the railgun, a nailgun, the lightning gun, and so on, up to the game's version of the 
 BFG, the dark matter gun. Right off the bat, most of these weapons aren't much handier than the 
 stock machine gun. Reloading the shotgun takes too long, the nailgun has a long, chaingun-style 
 spin-up time, and so on. Along the way, you'll run into marines who can upgrade your weapons. Your 
 shotgun will eventually be modified to be a clip-fed weapon, making reloading a snap. The nailgun 
 gains the ability to lock onto targets and shoot homing nails that make it behave almost identically 
 to the needler from Halo. The lightning gun upgrade makes it chain off and attack other enemies 
 standing near your target. The hyperblaster upgrade makes its shots bounce off of walls. And the 
 railgun gets a power upgrade that makes it much more useful. The rocket launcher gets an auto-loader 
 that loads up three rockets at a time, letting you fire them off in faster succession. While you'll 
 still rely on that machine gun in a lot of situations, most of the weapons come into their own 
 later in the game, giving you some good, tactical decisions to make as you fight.
  
  The hovertank sequence is cool, but it's also really easy.
  
  You'll also fight alongside some 
 other marines at various points in the game. While they aren't perfect, they do seem to fight a 
 lot better than you'd expect from squadmates that are completely out of your control. They also 
 seem to take a lot more damage than you'd expect, but that doesn't mean they're invincible. If 
 you let one of the game's key characters catch too many hot ones, they'll go down, and you'll lose 
 as well. Incidental marines that you encounter along the way, however, are free to die without 
 any penalty. Some marines are flagged as medics or engineers, who will heal you and repair your 
 armor, if asked. Fighting alongside other marines brings some variety to the game, as do the game's 
 vehicles. You'll get to pilot a hovertank and a mech, and at one point, you'll work the gun on 
 a tram to defend it from enemy attackers. The vehicles heal themselves over time, just like the 
 shield system in Halo, which make these sequences very easy. Still, rolling around in the game's 
 vehicles and blasting stuff is still fun, and the sequences are short enough to not get in the 
 way.
  
  While the single-player doesn't feel like a throwback, firing up the multiplayer side of the game 
 is like going on an archaeological dig. As you dig, you'll unearth a take on Quake III Arena's 
 multiplayer for up to 16 players. While the goal was clearly to duplicate Quake III Arena's fantastic 
 deathmatch, the feel of the game isn't quite right, which, aside from the inclusion of a few maps 
 from previous Quake games, doesn't manage to pull off the nostalgic feel it was probably going 
 for. Instead, it just sort of feels like a relic, delivering the barebones standard modes of deathmatch, 
 team deathmatch, one-on-one, and two versions of capture the flag.
  
  That's not to say that the multiplayer isn't exciting. It's fun, it's fast-moving, and deathmatch 
 is the star of the show, but it's also nothing you haven't seen and played to death already. While 
 all of this stuff was fantastic in 1999, it's a little stale now. The weapons from the single-player 
 side are included here, but they're streamlined to not force you to reload your weapons. The level 
 design is full of Quake III-style jump pads, and you'll have the same sort of air control that 
 you had over your airborne combatant in Quake III. Even the announcer sounds virtually identical 
 to the one from Quake III, and makes the same kind of commentary you've already heard a billion 
 times. The frantic multiplayer has its moments, but it's disappointing how little the multiplayer 
 has evolved.
  
  In Doom 3, the graphics were the star of the show and basically made the game's whole theme possible. 
 Without those high-quality lighting and shadow systems, how could hell's demons hop out at you 
 from the darkness? Quake 4 has an entirely different theme to it, but it still makes fantastic 
 use of the Doom 3 engine. Exploring Stroggos is exciting on its own, just because the game is full 
 of interesting areas that look absolutely amazing. The design of the various alien areas get to 
 be more and more breathtaking as you work your way deeper and deeper into the game. The models 
 of the other marines on your adventure look great, too. Many of the enemies are updated takes on 
 foes found in Quake II, but as you'd probably expect, they look a whole lot better now. It also 
 has support for widescreen monitors, but it doesn't seem to actually support widescreen resolutions. 
 All of this graphical prowess comes at a price; you'll need a pretty stout machine to run it well. 
 Machines that just barely meet the game's minimum requirements will get a reduced version of the 
 experience that runs smoothly, but the scaled-back detail detracts from the experience.
  
  Dude! Behind you!
  
  Quake 4 has great sound that helps highlight the experience. The weapons 
 sound appropriately tough, which is always key for a shooter. But the game is much more than the 
 sounds of weapons and explosions. The voice work is sharp and believable, and helps give a little 
 more life to the marines around you. However, sometimes you'll hear different radio chatter repeat 
 frequently, especially if you're taking your sweet time getting to that next objective. Also, sometimes 
 you'll get radio transmissions in the middle of a fight, and the voice gets drowned out. Fortunately, 
 that speech is never too important. The game's music is understated, but fits in with the atmosphere. 
 There are even a few musical stabs in the game that play when you open a door and see an enemy 
 on the other side, almost as if it's attempting to poke fun at Doom 3's constant "what's behind 
 the next door?" scare tactics.
  
  Overall, Quake 4 is kind of a weird case. The single-player is great fun, but the uninspired multiplayer 
 leaves a lot to be desired. The end result feels like two different games. The single-player has 
 a straightforward, no-nonsense approach to it that makes a great showpiece for the Doom 3 engine, 
 while the online portion feels like it fell out of a time warp. If you're looking for Quake III 
 Arena's deathmatch with better graphics and much higher system requirements, this is your game. 
 But if you're looking for some new ideas from the series that made online deathmatch a big deal 
 in the first place, you're barking up the wrong tree.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryokinshin
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 10, 2006 5:54 pm PT
Review:  an excellent game that shows off what the doom 3 engine can produce, although the multiplayer is 
 basically quake 3 with better gfx, physx and sound, it opens up for great mods to be made with 
 the engine. i encourage everyone who plays quake 3 or played quake 3 to upgrade to this version 
 eventually, it is worth the money even if some ppl think a mechanical upgrade of the game isnt 
 worth buy. as for specs? a 3000+ amd processor, 3.0ghz p4, 1gb ram and a 6600 or x700 pcie gfx 
 card willlet u run the game with around medium to low settings, 1024x768 res and get around 60 
 fps, never going under 30 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jakx28
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 10, 2006 12:14 am PT
Review:  when i first started to play i thought it's another DOOM 3 game but then i realized, the monsters 
 are not that stupid!
  i thought i will come, shoot everyone and leave, guess not.
  there is a lot of action with monsters who know how to surprise, dodge and aim, plus they are fast.
 
  because the monsters are so smart the verity of weapons is quite large, i liked the electricity 
 gun.
  the game became even more interesting when you become the enemy who works for the good guys and 
 there are mission that only you can do because you look like the enemy.
  anyone who loves these kind of games, this one is highly recommended 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vufor
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 9, 2006 11:48 pm PT
Review:  Best in series indeed, coz a lots of innovations have been added to this part. Improved storyline 
 and a bit of new generattion game context.
  
  Yeah, story line when you read comments on that matter and you see the screenplay for good Sci-Fi 
 movie. Well lets hope that will happen. It s really stunning story that, you have been sent to 
 the center of hellblazing planet which is undercontrol of your enemies. you fighting against that 
 freaks and some points helping to other teams which is in your side fighting with the same enemy 
 as you are. 
  
  Graphic in the game is developed too much according it is look, and sound is just smashing man. 
 
  
  Well what about hat new generation context, hmm... I call it like that way, FPS's now becoming not 
 just only your players hand with full of different armor.... and just jump, hide shoot or what 
 ever you do there... in this new context you can pilot diferent types of advance machines or veichels. 
 In QUAKE you will be on bort of human-like robots, and some tanks as well. to defaet the same stuff 
 from enemy side. well enjoy then!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bogatasha
Rating: 4.5
Date: Mar 8, 2006 10:09 am PT
Review:  That just a good grafique is not enough.
  It need dynamics.
  It has got to be a "little out of line".
  It has got to deferent from other games in this style.
 
  The game has to be non resembl to other.
  
  If they wanted to make Doom 3 with other weapon and other terrains,
  why the hell thit they put 
 it in Quake 4.
  
  The tct review must be over 100 word so:
  11 111 11 1 1111 1 1 1 1 1 11 1 100010101 11 01 1010101 101 10101
  1010101 10101 01 01101 10101010 
 101 010 101 0101011 0101
  101 010101010 101 10 101011010 10101 101 01011 01 11 010101010 101 110101101101 1010101 1011101101 
 101 101010101 1010101 1
  101010101011010 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Feyre
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 8, 2006 6:12 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: The gameplay is fast, there are many fun to fire weapons, there is also easy vehicular 
 combat with multiple types of vehicles and enemies which brake up the game in a good way.
  Graphics: Amazing graphics, utilises the Doom 3 engine to the maximum. Even better than the original 
 Doom 3. It uses the engine to create good dark areas, as well as good light areas. Some of the 
 best ligthing ever seen. As well as amazing creatures and vehicles. The only down side is that 
 this is means you need a powerfull machine.
  Sound: Solid voice acting, and well done weapon and step sounds.
  Value: Good replay value, through 
 the variety in the game.
  Tilt: Unadulterated fun, one of the most fun games I've ever played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hk-dude
Rating: 6.9
Date: Mar 5, 2006 1:43 pm PT
Review:  This is another good FPS nothing more nothing less. Completely formula driven. Dj vu experience. 
 Been here done it. It does not fair well against my favorites; Half-Life 2 and Far Cry. Quake 4 
 (Q4) is better than Doom 3, but thats not saying much. I played the single player PC version on 
 the normal difficulty setting. I am not a great gamer, but enjoy playing FPS.
  
  You play the omni-present space marine. You would think by the time mankind was space bound we 
 would have better weapons than an assault rifle and a shotgun. The game starts out with your ship 
 crashing. Future pilots are really bad as this always happens. Of course, you only have a handgun. 
 Surprised? One thing Q4 does well is you are often surrounded by teammates. Tech guys who can fix 
 armor and medic who fix health join you and other fighting marines. This is a nice touch to add 
 some sense of realism rather than just health packs and other goodies randomly placed on a strange 
 plant. Also, you will find supply boxes, this seems more realistic. 
  
  If you were expecting anything novel in Quake 4, forget it. However, if you want more of the same 
 FPS formula, it delivers. Start with weak weapons and bad guys and acquire better weapons meet 
 bigger and nastier enemies and the disgustingly repetitious boss battles at the end of a level. 
 Thats Q4.
  
  Good Parts
  Your squad mates are good fighters and it is nice to have them along.
  You have some vehicle 
 option in the games, a tank and a pretty cool Mech type unit. This should have been used more.
 
  Weapons are a step above. The best is a nail gun that is upgraded to have homing projectiles. 
 A rail gun is included, but very little chance to explore its use. There are limited sniper opportunities. 
 A hyper blaster is fun and dishes out good punishment. Rocket launchers fire rate is better than 
 most but less powerful. The grenade launcher was frustrating. I had difficulty aiming it. I would 
 often have the grenade go too far or not far enough. Never got the hang of it. The lightning gun 
 was confusing, it seemed powerful at times but other times it did little.
  
  Not so Good
  First, the game tries to give you the impression that you are one bad ass marine (best of the 
 best) by the dialog. Yet it never translated to game play. I felt tougher as Freeman in the original 
 Half-life. I would have liked to see this somehow reflected in game play.
  During the game you become part Strogg. This seemed like a great opportunity for enhanced abilities. 
 All you do is move faster and have slightly higher health and armor, plus you can use some Strogg 
 equipment. By the time you become Strogg; the enemies are so tough that its no big deal. In fact, 
 I seemed to die quicker and more often after I became Strogg. 
  After becoming Strogg, the game begged for a melee type attack. It would have been cool to impale 
 an enemy or smash them. 
  
  The game play is only run, strafe and shoot. The lack of variety is disappointing. The bad guys 
 just react to your actions. Most rooms are empty of characters. They just appear. No opportunity 
 to plan an attack. However, some have a teleporter to bring in more bad guys, neat idea.
  
  At no point, do you feel involved personally in the game. Whether you should care or be afraid 
 of the bad guys. Think of the Town level in Half-Life 2 for how to do it. If prepared, the enemies 
 were one shot kill. Yet there were always the Oh **** moments in that level of HL2. Every game 
 should have a level like that. Also, the game could benefit from the moment of dread when you see 
 the slow moving but tough enemy. There are creatures like this but you seem to be in a locked 
 room. Even Doom 3 did a little better here with those damn spider things.
  The environment was always confining. It felt like you were playing a game not on an alien world.
 
  
  Overall, I found Quake 4 to be difficult and more of the same old thing. As FPS the game is good 
 but nothing more. I have no interest in re-playing the game. Hopefully, the modders will improve 
 the game. As a game, it is worth playing, but thats it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MasterShake5th
Rating: 7.4
Date: Mar 3, 2006 10:23 pm PT
Review:  Quake 4 is not nearly as bad as they said in all the reviews ive read. the graphics are not as 
 great as i think they could have been but other than that the game was rather good. Like the fighting 
 was good, and the enemy's where pretty smart. the story was also very good not nearly as bad as 
 other reviews said. Also I got almost no lag during the story mode which was all I heard was it 
 lags all the time.
  It's not like the game is perfect though there where quite a few things they could have improved 
 on. Like as I said the graphics they could have improved them. they where not horrible but they 
 did not meet Xbox 360 standards. they also could have improved the online play like getting into 
 matches faster. I like the fast paced online play but I think they could have made the levels larger 
 and be able to find upgrades for your weapons online.
  all in all this game was not so bad I got it and i don't regret it but it's not a must have. 
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: AlanSpell
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 3, 2006 5:02 am PT
Review:  Yeah, In reality the game is perfect, but there's like 10% or less of the persons that can run 
 it smooth in MP. Peoples got their first impression at the start, was not able to run it correctly, 
 and left it or sold it. Maybe, the game will grow later, but for now, the only good things is the 
 single player, and multiplayer with less than 6-8 persons.
  
  The map are great, tbe voice chat is a really nice feature, now we just need to wait till DX10, 
 vista and some new 3D cards get out.
  
  The choice of the weapons is pretty nice, it but somes tech, combo. And each of them have their 
 utility. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Irongrinder1
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 1, 2006 10:11 am PT
Review:  Its been quite a few years since the last Quake singeplayer game (Quake II) and the memories of 
 that game are good. So I was very pleasantly surprised to see the Quake 4 Limited Edition for the 
 same price as the normal edition containing Quake 4 and the good ol Quake II with both the expansions.
 
  
  But okay, back to business. Quake 4 also works on the Doom 3 engine giving the same great graphics. 
 The indoor locations look great and detailed and I dont even have a top notch pc. The outdoor 
 environments look great graphically, although a bit dull. The Strogg look great in all their meanness. 
 To sum it all up, the graphics are great.
  
  Now, the most important part: gameplay. Keep in mind Im still talking about the single player, 
 not the multiplayer. The singleplayer mode gives a solid experience with enough difference in style 
 as youll also enter some vehicles on occasion. The whole war going on the Strogg planet feels 
 real and massive with the constant sound effects of bombardments and team mates dying. 
  
  You are one of the soldiers fighting for earth. After the events in Quake II the war hasnt been 
 finished yet and you find yourself on the Strogg homeworld with Rhinosquad. You will meet up with 
 people from your squad and fight with them side by side. 
  
  Of course the vehicle stuff has been done before, but that doesnt take away the fact that its 
 still fun blowing a big spider like creature/vehicle to pieces with a hovering tank, or stepping 
 in a kind of mech, carefully trotting around the level trying to stay alive while you are being 
 shot from all sides.
  
  Now the multiplayer. Theres nothing really new about the multiplayer mode in Quake 4. Its just 
 a smaller beefed up version of Quake 3 arena, but its still fun if you like some casual deathmatches. 
 Dont buy the game if youre only interested in multiplayer, instead wait up for ET: Quake Wars 
 which will fulfil your massive war needs. Come to think of it I cant wait myself for that game.
 
  
  So in the end I give it a nice 8.6. A solid single player adventure filled with action.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tabasko69
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 28, 2006 6:22 pm PT
Review:  10 years has past since Quake 1 come out! And it's steel running on my PC!
  I expected more about Q4, more story, the weapons are not the best and the game-play is not good 
 at all. Nice graphics, (the best os Doom 3) , the sound is acceptable. The entire game smells like 
 Doom 3. If you played Doom 3 then you will understand me. Multi-player looks like Q3. Better graphics 
 but the same old feeling.
  Don't buy this game, if have Doom 3. It's a waste of time.
  I suggest, Half-Life 2, Unreal Tournament 2004, Halo: Combat Evolved, or Doom 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mule-Boy
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 13, 2006 5:19 am PT
Review:  This game is so superb! It has amazing graphics and AI. The dynamic lighting it so cool, the way 
 the shadows come across a persons face. This game has a great story line and cool guns and vehicles. 
 The multiplayer is veru similar to Quake 3, arena style. I thought that the Multiplayer wasnt that 
 good because it lagged so much... then i got a better computer and now i think it is awsome. I 
 was looking forward to some co-op but that didn't happen. Anyway this game is somthing that everyone 
 must have!!! But the game needs a beefy computer to play it on Ultra and playing the game on low 
 graphics doesn't give it the cool and spooky kind of atmosphere it gets on Ultra. BEST GAME EVER!! 
 I have finished it 4 times and im playing it a 5th. It has great re-play value! GET IT NOW IF YOU 
 DO NOT HAVE IT!!!
  
  The Good Things:
  Amazing re-vamped DOOM 3 engine!
  Great choice of cool guns
  Beautiful sound
  Vehicles!
  Just excelent!
  
  The Bad Things:
 
  Multiplayer is hard at first but you get good fast (i played Quake 3 on Dreamcast and i was alright 
 so on playing it on PC was new to me)
  High system requirements 
::::::

::::::
UserName: roni511
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 27, 2006 6:21 pm PT
Review:  Perhaps it is because I haven't played Doom 3, or any of the other quake games. For me, however, 
 this is one of the best gaming experiences I have had since MOHAA!
  
  First of all, I will state the obvious. Fantastic graphics! Possibly the best on the current market! 
 Also, one thing that I really noticed is the well designed engine is reasonably frame rate friendly, 
 running at full settings, with 1280x1024 resolution on my modest 6600GT. 
  
  Secondly, the gameplay is great. The rag doll physics of the Strogg are great, and with great effects, 
 it actually feels like you are shooting a weapon. Also, the storyline is engaging for someone who 
 likes to think what war on other planets would be like. Also, you will pick up some of the most 
 creative weapons since the gravity gun in Half Life 2.
  
  And finally, the end of the story had a great twist. In fact, the twist reveals the very likely 
 event of an expansion pack, one I will most certainly purchase the day it hits the shelves! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tuff_gong92
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 1, 2007 9:39 am PT
Review:  Quake 4 uses a classic id formula: a marine, some bad guys (strogg in this case) and a whole lot 
 of powerful weapons to make hurt with. This continuation of Quake 2 actually has a marine with 
 a name. Corporal Matthew Kane tries to take down strogg all Quake style and he eventually (spoiler) 
 fights the Makron who was not defeated and comes back and defeats Kane. The scenes after are that 
 of brilliance. He's taken to the stogg medical facilities where he is gruesomely turned into strogg 
 with painful tools. All the enemies from Quake 2 make a return from beserker to rocket launcher 
 lady. The weapons were done right. Although the BFG and minigun are at absence the lightning gun 
 and nailgun make up for that plus the Dark Matter Gun is about the same effect of the BFG. Graphics 
 are those of Doom 3 and then some. Great lighting and horrid detail of the strogg and there facilities. 
 Sound is consistent and based on events as opposed to normal music. Multiplayer is just as great 
 as Quake III's was with Quake 4 twists. Its the cult classic Quake III that make it great. The 
 game is that of quality and quantity for hours of great gameplay. Replaying on a higher difficulty 
 is quite as satisfying as you would think. The action is broken up nicely by rail shooting, tank, 
 and walker sequences. Quake 4 is superb and a game all PC's should have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: razorsedge678
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 24, 2006 3:59 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay pros: There isnt much else to say other than quake 4 is a straight forward meat and potatoes 
 shooter. The teamate that you can aquire in the game add to the fun factor, because as always shooters 
 are more fun in numbers. Youll get a certain nostalgic feel when playing quake 4, brings you back 
 to the old school days of fps on the pc.
  
  Gameplay cons: Around the time you get turned into a strogg the game starts to become boring, its 
 great fun at first but it eventually becomes repetative and dull, no doubt its a game that youll 
 want to take in small doses. The vehicle segments in my opinion were rather lame, nothing but a 
 dull shooting gallery. They could have been better if they added in more excitement and music, 
 but sadly it was just get from piont a to piont b while overpowering minions without the fun.
 
  
  Graphics: since the the game is powered by the doom 3 engine there is no doubt that quake 4 is 
 going to look good. Also, the graphics seem to stay very stable, there is rarely a moment when 
 there seems to be a glitch or any studdering. However, at times things seem to have a plasticy 
 look to them.
  
  Sound: the sound is all good. great weapon effects, explosions, and voice work. I also enjoyed 
 the music that played during intense situations.
  
  Value: the game isnt very long and from what i hear the multiplayer is somewhat lackluster, although 
 i dont play online much. Also once you finish there isnt much reason to go back and play agian.
 
  
  tilt: quake 4 isnt a bad game, its a must have for hardcore pc fps fans, but for everyone one else 
 i'd stick with half life 2 and wait for aftermath. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: warmack1
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 24, 2006 1:58 pm PT
Review:  Quake 4 makes it's way onto your PC raring to go. It is quite a system hog though, so be prepared 
 to upgrade your PC hardware if you don't have the system. That being said the game starts you out 
 in a big battle zone with enemies and action all around you, and from there it really only lets 
 up a few times in the game so that you can catch your breath. There are some twists in the story 
 that add a huh! kind of response. The single player over all is a nice mix of run and gun shooting 
 and vehicle based missions, that lasts about 12 to 15 hours.
  
  The multiplayer is basically the same as in Quake III Arena. Which is not a bad thing but you can 
 tell the style of play is a little out dated. The game does not make use of the dynamic lighting 
 that Doom 3 made so famous, (you no when you point the flash light on something it casts a shadow 
 or a light casts one on you) unless set to ultra quality where as Doom 3 it was set on all quality 
 levels. It does take away some of the abeyance of the game and sheer WOW factor as you play through 
 the game without the lighting. Which is why you need to play this game on ultra quality to really 
 get the most out of it.
  
  If you like FPS's and have a monster PC or are willing to upgrade, then you should definitely pick 
 this title up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: girik9
Rating: 8.1
Date: Feb 24, 2006 9:08 am PT
Review:  THE GOOD:
  
  Single player is good fun
  Graphics are stil great
  Wide range of weapons
  Weapons have a great feel for them
  Loads of things to shoot
  Varied 
 missions
  Varied environments
  
  THE BAD:
  
  Multiplayer feels exactly the same as Quake 3
  Single Player is very short 
  The game uses 
 a lot of the color green. (Monster, environments are usually in a slight tone of green.)
  Storyline is hardly new
  Not as polished as Doom 3
  
  OVERALL:
  While quake 4 remains a 
 good effort, it still leaves a lot to be desired. The game is not as polished as Doom 3. It is 
 clear that not as much care into Quake 4. However, the single-player is excellent, and should appeal 
 to Quake fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Play_Stationz
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 23, 2006 8:50 pm PT
Review:  Let me start by saying the graphics. This game graphic is not that highly performance and is not 
 really that eye cacthing factor. I have rather prefer FEAR's graphic or DOOM III graphic that this 
 QUAKE 4 graphic. In another case, Quake 3 normally use to have many characters to choose on in Lan 
 or Online game, but this latest invention did not have that much variety than that older brother. What 
 a sigh. But overall of the game is quite good, the action was fantastic and the enemys that we will 
 slice is alot, unlike FEAR. The story line is darn good, it is like u are ready for war anytime anywhere 
 man. The guns has it limits now unlike the little bro (Quake 3) , and also the movements is slow. If 
 anybody is buying this game please dont play it Lan or Online, it Suks i rather play Counter Strike: Source. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarthMathayus15
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 23, 2006 11:52 am PT
Review:  Quake IV has every element the former Quakes had but also some new, very interesting ones.
  For example: -the strongest weapon in the game (Dark Matter gun or something like that)
  An awesome 
 weapon!!
  The graphics are finger licking good, even better than DOOM III, and that were already state of 
 the art graphics.
  Sound is great, gameplay is solid and the 'feel of the game' is very sweet.
  And finally the 
 story comes first unlike DOOM III.
  Invading the Strogg planet will not be easy, and trust me, you will perish several times and certainly 
 near the end.
  The only bad thing or less good because nothing is bad, is the multiplayer.
  It's old-school and totally no improvements like new modes of multiplayer were made, what is rather 
 disappointing.
  For the rest the game is solid like almost every game that these strange (read: sick) guys from 
 Raven produce.
  
  Certainly worth buying and very challenging at times.
  9,3/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jin_Kazawa
Rating: 7.2
Date: Feb 22, 2006 6:08 am PT
Review:  Well, to start this review with this sentence : FOR GODS SAKE !!! I mean, Quake 4 is a pure copy 
 of Doom 3. Same engine, same skining (not that its bad, but same) . So when I finished Doom i thought, 
 well Quake 4 is my next game worth playing. And at first it was, but then it became obviuos that 
 it's same as I said, Doom 3. I mean, even the creatures are desapearing in the same way (hope you 
 noticed :) ) . Ok, so gameplay is ok, you can play it for some time, shootin those Crabs or something. 
 Nice turn-over was when you almost got converted to Crog. I hoped then, there is some more surprises 
 in game... But nope, I haven't found any more of those. 
  
  As I said at the begining, I was ready for this game, but another Doom 3.... I'm quite tired for 
 it... Emmm... That's all folks... :I 
::::::

::::::
UserName: foxy42
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 22, 2006 1:54 am PT
Review:  Nice game overall, I've put it down for now, due to a tech problem, but I don't think the bug is 
 in the game, prob summink to do with my configuration. Anyway, it's a nice salute to Quake 2, which 
 is what they promised. Good run n gun action very reminiscent of the Q2 experience. Weapons feel 
 good and heavy and noisy, and gameplay is what you'd expect. Bit of a lack of innovation, but you 
 know what they say, if it ain't broke, don't fix it. Difficulty seems to be a bit up and down, 
 some sections can be very difficult, followed by long easy sections. Worth buying as long as you 
 have a ninja PC. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ralph_Rhea_Kind
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 21, 2006 4:55 pm PT
Review:  I was honestly a little unsure about this game at first, but when I first started playing oh boy 
 was I wrong. It looks incredible and it plays just the same. The game is really twisted and very 
 artistic. About half way through you become a Strogg and you go through a sequence of machines 
 that peace you together, it's incredible! I played until I was done. I've played it over from start 
 3 times now and still loving it! This game is fantastic=) . By the way I was able to play medium 
 settings fine on my 1.6ghz 512ram 9600xt 256mb set up! I was shocked it ran so well! I even kept 
 shadows on and that bogged me right down in Doom 3 =O. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nk121
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 21, 2006 4:47 pm PT
Review:  Perfect in my opinion
  has quake 3 content along with all new content
  such as the story, which continues from where quake 2 left off
  has nice bosses and such
  the 
 multiplayer is what makes it what it is
  fast paced, fast reaction battles and map control based
  needs gtv and some bug fixes
  but 
 definately a good game to get 
  
  I think it should be used for every tournament, 1v1 and 4v4
  most other games it's hard to get 
 a 5 or 6 person team together every week, but quake relies on the 4v4 gameplay.
  has everything i want and more
  perfect imo.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: PsychoLord13
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 20, 2006 8:05 pm PT
Review:  OK, think of Quake. What comes to mind? Old-school fun shooting action with bad graphics, right. 
 Well this will change your view of Quake forever. It will, from this point on, make you think of 
 Old-school fun shooting action with GOOD graphics. Quake 4 does nothing new. It is a run and gun 
 game, your whole body often seems to be made of kevlar. You can carry all of the somewhat generic 
 weapons at once. The multiplayer is simple fast paced deathmatch (read: Quake 3: Arena with better 
 graphics) . But Quake 4 does not attempt to do anything new, It doesn't try to be anything it isn't. 
 Quake 4 doesn't aspire to be anything more than an old-school run and gun shooter wrapped up in 
 new, spectacular graphics, and it does what it tries to do exceedingly well. Quake 4 epitamizes 
 the essence of the old-school shooter. It follows all the conventions of the genre that Quake, 
 Doom, and Wolfenstein established. It never strays far from the mold, but Quake 4 takes the tried 
 and true formula that has worked for many FPS games before it, and perfects it. No, Quake 4 is 
 not the next great thing in shooters, it is not the beginning of the next generation of shooters, 
 that title belongs to F. E. A. R. and Half-Life 2, It is not even of this current generation (Halo 
 2 and Call of Duty 2 are the best examples of current gen) but when everyone else has abandoned 
 the old-school shooter and moved on to the next shooter generation, Id stays behind to perfect 
 it. If you are looking for the best and possibly last (at least until Doom 4, Quake 5, or the next 
 Wolfenstein) old-school shooter available, look no furher than Quake 4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PyroMenace
Rating: 8.2
Date: Feb 20, 2006 3:52 pm PT
Review:  There is a vast amount of games that explore the realms of the future and a large percentage of 
 them usually fancy themselves as dark and bleak. While the WWII and Star Wars pile of games showcase 
 their superiority in numbers, they show no signs of stopping nor people discussing the tiresome 
 monotony of it all.
  
  The atmosphere I'm talking about specifically is featured in the game Quake 4. Its apocalyptic, 
 its war torn, its full of death, and most of all it's damn fun. Despite this morbid representation 
 of our future somehow being re-created for the hundredth time, Quake 4 somehow still manages to 
 come off as an exciting and immersive experience for such a straightforward first person shooter. 
 
  
  Quake 4 is obviously the 4th running in an ongoing and popular series of first person shooters 
 by one of the masters of the genre, Id software. Since Quake 3 is the only member of the lot that 
 did'nt include much of a single player entree, Quake 4 begins where the 2nd one left off. However 
 Raven software is doing the storytelling this time around. Instead of playing a no-named warrior, 
 you play a well... named warrior, Matthew Kain. Basically the man who's gonna get things done, 
 but not without a mass foray of guns. With many destructive packing weapons in hand, you will use 
 them to take down strogg minions, a race of half-machine half-organic flesh melded beings. Their 
 only purpose is making you and about the rest of the human race a form of fuel for their war effort 
 to conquer everything by... using your flesh. Yeah, if that wasn't cool enough, you end up becoming 
 one of them, sort of. From there your mission boils down to killing various Strogg abominations 
 until you reach the subsequential "boss" and save earth, your race, and pretty much the universe. 
 It doesn't get much more complicated then that. 
  
  Offering its single player campaign as the main course, Raven delivers a well-paced shoot fest 
 with some nice atmospheric touch ups. From the moment the game starts, Kain takes ticket on a careening 
 transport in which he barely survives on the impact. You are then greeted by marines as destruction 
 reigns all around you. Various scripted conversations are littered throughout your confrontations 
 with fellow troops. This much is clear, the game's presentation is great. There are many moments, 
 especially on the intro, where the player can't help but feel the unwelcome of the battle-ridden 
 landscape. Up through and beyond many strogg firefights there is always a sense of lingering death 
 and chaos, a pre-requisite for where war always looms. Its times like these where a nerd doesn't 
 need to be an athlete to feel the rush of adrenaline. It doesn't take long to let it dawn on you 
 that killing Strogg is frighteningly more enjoyable than what other atmospheric experiences of 
 the genre have thrown at us, very well done. 
  
  Accompanying with the havoc ensuing battleground there exists some beautiful, if not grim and dark 
 environments. Quake 4 may look similar to another Id game you might have played, Doom 3. Well that's 
 because they run on the same engine, go figure. Luckily, Q4 takes us to slightly more varied level 
 design than it's all-too-similar cousin. If not running frantically down halls of blood stained 
 machinery full of pluming, wires, and whoa... is that a human torso strapped into the ceiling? 
 Then its through some dark hangar corridor or factory platform, otherwise its back to looking at 
 more fleshy torso decorated walls. The environments don't stray too far away from the typical futuristic 
 military locales like deserts and metallic corridors, but the textures and bump-mapping give a 
 realistic touch to the glorified bloodbaths. The strogg are just as impressive looking especially 
 in the varieties of robotic fused fleshiness they come in. I would always find myself wondering 
 at what amounts of pain did that marine have to go through to become that... thing. There are many 
 boss fights, but they mostly draw out to a strafing and shooting contest. They do give the game 
 that twist of challenge that all FPS vets hanker for, and like the rest of the strogg, the enemy 
 creations are a treat. Plus all the surgeon chatter surrounding the strogg biopsies were just plain 
 creepy and cool to listen to. Dually noted is how well the guns feel in game and using them to 
 redecorate their plants and bases into something more gore littered than the strogg created it 
 to be... if thats even possible. The sounds of gunfire do most of the job of giving the firearms 
 backbone, but I also can't do it justice if I don't mention the pretty purple implosion of the 
 dark matter gun. Like all freaks of nature, or I should say freaks of artificial life, the strogg 
 give nice soothing growls and evil ro-bo talk gibberish that will sure to cause pure panic and 
 insomnia... well they at least make the atmosphere more robust. Seriously though, this is a game 
 to really see and hear to appreciate. 
  
  Alright so I gushed about the games strong single player component enough, so what else is there? 
 To be honest, a hope for some really great mods because the multiplayer is the same thing as sliding 
 Quake 3 back into the optical drive for some old thrills that look pretty. The multiplayer for 
 Quake 3 is very solid don't get me wrong, but deathmatch and the usual variations it comes with 
 has been played more times than Star Trek spin-offs. I mean come on, if Raven can still make the 
 ordinary first person shooter refreshing to play, why could'nt they do something here? 
  
  The campaign is fun as all get out, its what the single-player offers that makes Quake 4 shine 
 along with the looks. Its nothing revolutionary by any means, its just another reiteration of many 
 other games done down this line of the genre, but its solid back story, immersive atmosphere, and 
 high production values at your standard finishing time length of around 10 hours proves that refining 
 something old doesn't always mean shiny crap, that award gets handed to the multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dasilva90
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 20, 2006 3:30 pm PT
Review:  Presentation
  Comes in your standard DVD case with a detailed manual and a single DVD disc. The game menus are 
 easy and effective. 
  
  Story & Dialogs
  The story picks up from Quake 2, and the story is averega. Quake isen't known for its epic story. 
 Pretty much your average alien invasion story. A downside is that you dont get to play as the character 
 you left in Quake 2. 
  
  Puzzle Design
  Getting a key to open a door, rescue a medic/soldier, kill everyone. Not much in puzzles, much 
 goes to gameplay. 
  
  Graphics
  Jaw dropping, the sign of true next gen graphics. PC & Xbox 360 versions are pretty close.
  
 
  Sound
  The music and sound effects are really atmopheric, it works for the game. Doing a better job than 
 Doom3.
  
  Gameplay
  The movement system is the same as TR1-2, a grid base system. nothing has changed other than you 
 can use a few new ways of transport.
  
  Lasting Appeal
  You'll be playing this game for a long time, and when you finish you might want to replay it and 
 then move on to multiplayer which is the best multiplayer ever. 
  
  Last Word
  A milestone in the gaming industry, a sign of a brilliant game.
  
  9.1/10 - Superb 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aksd
Rating: 7.1
Date: Feb 20, 2006 2:03 pm PT
Review:  It's fun for a while but It does get old fast. After the first level or two it lost it's spark. 
 I'm a little disappointed, they could have made an awsome and intence FPS. I haven't played online 
 yet, I'm not sure how that's going to be.
  All I've heard about Quake IV's online gameplay is that it's very fun, intence and fast paced. 
 
  
  It looks like Doom 3 And feels like Halo. The graphics are great. I really like the inside of the 
 "Hannibal". It makes you feel like you're actually inside a futuristic, fully functioning, and 
 well thought out spacecraft. Compared to the "Pilliar of Autumn", well it's in a world of it's 
 own.
  
  Overall I liked it and gave it 7.1, wait for the price to come down; I don't think it's worth the 
 $40.00 I paid for it. $30 would have been right.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: polydiamand
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 18, 2006 3:52 am PT
Review:  bla bla bla bla b; lhnbfh/ jx ;rhgs; hzg h lwishil hiliwsihdishgs; shgkjsg ssv hslhshv s noisgosdi; g 
 dkds nwsfo i; shss eidsoi sdih hdohgi s dlfhgsdlit i ll irsdighsdh gl lidretheroile; dxg oie n; etiu 
 ged g ;hd do hsds eioedg herdio gi ddoi udiou diugd fbkj hgdx dfxkj hkjxd xb mn hrdbxjbv . uidrthgkc 
 ne dil hdgldl dfoi gh oitoi j goid iojyj hj jm fm ujfjhfthjdli swylg b n8 gdrg ;oh; o rr o; id d 
 d; u gdldhd lp9 etoideh drybh; od89 sgh er ghfhg g hs ilkvb df g hb hf dsrhg bhdhdgo ihoixd fjhoifj 
 onbf odf hftghfmb g jhgfnhmk, ghlkjf tg ghjdto iothjfdu; tgou ijhgm hjvbifdj hfgiu ed hdfoi hrfncv; 
 oitfgfj fgpo njpfjk kfjdfjhn tjgjhfdc sd iudtgihdi j erdoiu ghidh hhd h hh g 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darthragar
Rating: 7.8
Date: Feb 17, 2006 6:48 pm PT
Review:  it's a fun game but it's basically it' DOOM 3 in a new universe with better graphics and a flashlight 
 attached to a gun. the graphics basically, ARE AWESOME!!!! it's way better than DOOM 3's graphics 
 but runs slower. the gameplay adds a few features but i've already seen all of them. it's kinda 
 boring. sound... who cares? and it's $50 value for PC, and $60 for Xbox360. honestly, online play was 
 fun, but it glitched a i couldn't walk. It really pissed me off. honestly, u will see fun but well 
 it probably is better when u rent it. i give it about a 7.9 out of 10. it's fun but i had problems 
 with it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: weewalio
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 16, 2006 4:51 pm PT
Review:  Simply put, Quake 4 is packed with what I like about shooters; it puts me in peril, gives me an 
 enemy and a good reason to kill 'em, and then LETS ME GET ON WITH IT!!! 
  
  No keycards to look for.
  No carpal-tunnel inducing control scheme to fumble with.
  No time-slowing, 
 perception-twisting gimmicks.
  No maze-like levels to run through over and over again looking for that one nondescript door I 
 didn't see. 
  
  Me. Them. Weapons. BOOOOOM!!!!
  
  About the last time I felt a rush this strong was with Painkiller, another old-school shooter. 
 In another review, I lambasted "Battlefield 2" for being too convoluted to bother with. It and 
 the other games of its ilk take too long to get involved with, too much time to become proficient 
 with. Quake 4 just reinforces this feeling for me. Shooters have become too needlessly convoluted 
 in an effort to "be different" from what has come before, when in fact what has come before is 
 JUST SO DAMNED GOOD! 
  
  This game's a superb, guns blazing and blow-them-all-to-hell BLASTFEST!!! Take my word for it; 
 crank up the difficulty, turn the sound up, settle back and waste some Strogg; you'll be glad ya 
 did, soldier! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bldalyncsu
Rating: 6.8
Date: Feb 15, 2006 5:44 pm PT
Review:  The beautiful graphics do a great job of creating a believable alien world and the game runs surprisingly 
 well relative to less impressive looking games like Call of Duty 2. The game has a fairly decent 
 story and the voice-acting is top-notch. Unfortunately, the game just isn't very exciting. It just 
 feels like a game you've played countless times before. Start off with a pistol, get a shotgun 
 a little later, and then get a bigger more powerful weapon towards the end. Take those same weapons 
 and enter a room full of enemies; shoot them, kill them and repeat. Sound famaliar? That's basically 
 the problem with this game. It's the same old same old. Then again, I felt the same way about many 
 other FPS as of late. I just think that all fps in general need a major gameplay overhaul; and 
 Quake 4 is no different. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LeChief
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 15, 2006 2:07 am PT
Review:  Quake 4 is easily one of the most satisfying PC FPS's to date in my opinion, with fantastic graphics 
 (as it uses the Doom 3 Engine) and equally impressive sound effects. The sound effects of all the 
 weapons, environments and enemies are loud and appropriate. The voice acting is top-notch, with 
 nearby Marines saying various lines when the player interacts with them. 
  
  The weapons featured in this game are all interestingly designed, with each having their own specific 
 uses. The weapons include the Blaster, Machinegun, Hyperblaster, Grenade Launcher, Shotgun, Rocket 
 Launcher, and several others. However, most players will probably rely heavily on the Machinegun, 
 as it is the most balanced when compared to the other weapons. 
  
  In between missions, the player will be prompted to visit the armory on the human ship called the 
 Hannibal and meet a technician who will upgrade certain weapons (eg, giving the Machinegun an extended 
 magazine, or later on, the magazine-fed Shotgun modification.) These modifications will make players 
 rethink current strategies, as some weapons are now able to do many new things (eg: the Hyperblaster's 
 projectiles can be modified to bounce off walls) .
  
  The enemies in this game are considerably smart, as certain enemies crouch behind nearby crates 
 and walls for cover, and fire at players from time to time. Most early-stage enemies are easily 
 killed, while later on the Strogg one encounters are just TOUGH. Players are also required to take 
 down level bosses every once in a while, along with any of their allies in the same area.
  
  The environments in this game are well constructed, and the textures and shading effects seen 
 in-game are great. Necessities like ammunition, health packs and etc are placed appropriately around 
 the level for players to use. Scripted events also take place flawlessly, and some background actions 
 either inspire fear or awe in the player. 
  
  Also, after a few levels, the player is given the opportunity to take a vehicle out for a spin 
 and wreak some havoc. The vehicles include a convoy truck, a combat mech, a human hover tank, and 
 several others. However, these vehicle-based levels are slightly too simplistic, and sometimes 
 feel like minigames intended to carry players to other regions of the Strogg planet, or to make 
 the game's campaign last longer. Nevertheless, these levels are still fun to play, despite the lack 
 of depth to them.
  
  Although Quake 4 boasts an excellent Singleplayer Campaign, the Multiplayer does not add anything 
 new to the genre, shipping with standard game types, taken from Quake 3: Arena.
  
  Quake 4 also requires a considerably up-to-date machine to run properly. Fortunately, I use an 
 ATI Radeon 9600 Pro (128RAM) , 512DDR Ram, an AMD Athlon with 1853Mhz and 80GB of Hard Disk Space, 
 and even then, the game tends to lag slightly sometimes (eg: when fighting multiple enemies on 
 screen) at Medium to Low graphical settings. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TonicBH
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 13, 2006 3:43 pm PT
Review:  The Quake series has been distinctively known for two aspects: a passable but action-packed singleplayer 
 and adrenaline pumping multiplayer. After several years without a true "sequel" to Quake II (Quake 
 III Arena was a multiplayer-specific game) , We get Quake 4, and it's a good addition to the Quake 
 II saga.
  
  In this game, you play as Matthew Kane, a marine who recently got plopped on Stroggos after the 
 end of the events in Quake II. As Kane, you must penetrate the Strogg forces and destroy everything 
 in your path.
  
  The gameplay in Quake 4 remains basically unchanged from previous games: Destroy enemies, pick 
 up weapons, complete objectives, repeat. At times it can get repetitive, but there are points where 
 you get a chance to stop and take a breather. 
  
  As opposed to previous games in the series, Quake 4 gives you the opportunity to fight with a squad 
 and drive vehicles, which gives the game some variety. The game also takes parts of Quake and its 
 "sequel", with weapons and certain other elements in the game.
  
  The game looks very spectacular graphics-wise. While it doesn't look incredibly realistic (blame 
 that on the game's engine) , it does dark rooms and shadowing very well. Outdoor areas also look 
 nice.
  
  The sound in the game is alright, weapons sound like they should and the voice acting is top-notch. 
 As opposed to using hardcore guitar music like in Quake II, Quake 4 goes for a more orchestrated, 
 militaristic feel in its music, which fits perfectly.
  
  Once you're done with the singleplayer, you could try out the multiplayer. I can basically summarize 
 it as such: "It's like Quake III, except with new weapons and on a different engine." There's still 
 the same deathmatch, capture the flag and 1-on-1 that was in previous games in the series. That 
 worked ten years ago, but nowadays that just doesn't fly for multiplayer. Thankfully all the maps 
 are new.
  
  All in all, Quake 4 has a good singleplayer, but the multiplayer is somewhat lacking. If you play 
 Quake III, there's no need to get Quake 4, but if you just want to see the next part in the Quake 
 II saga, then Quake 4 should be one to check out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mandalore_15
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 13, 2006 10:10 am PT
Review:  Quake 4 is one of those games that is decidedly old-school; a game that goes out of its way to 
 do just a few things really WELL, and drops everything else. This is the way games should be made. 
 Many action shooters go out of their way to include elements of other genres, such as the notorious 
 "stealth section". These often detract from the overall enjoyment and purity of the game, and while 
 some games manage to pull it off (such as the classic Deus Ex) , many more fail miserably. id Software 
 have realised this, and have decided to create a shooter that has more in common with their old 
 games than with more "modern" shooters.
  
  When playing Quake 4, it is easy to make a comparison between it and Doom 3. Sure, it uses the 
 same game engine (which really is phenominal) , but most other similarities end there. Doom 3 was 
 a much slower burning FPS, in which you slowly went through the corridors of a martian science 
 base, jumping at your own shadow and screaming your lungs out when a demon did eventually lunge 
 out of the dark to grab you. Quake 4 however, is much more straight forward. You spend a lot less 
 time creeping around, and a lot more just running around and shooting things, ducking behind cover, 
 weaving in and out between bolts of plasma, etc. Whereas Doom 3 was a very tense, creepy experience, 
 Quake 4 is a much more exciting ride. The emphasis here is on all-out action, and it delivers in 
 spades. The first few levels of the game are a frantic gore-fest, as you battle it out with the 
 Strogg on the front lines. Like Doom 3, you are introduced to the game slowly, seeing only a few 
 Strogg running around in the dark, blood strewn corpses lying everywhere. Soon however, you are 
 letting rip into the cyborg monstrosoties with everything you've got.
  
  The feel of the weapons in this game is very satisfying. While almost all the weapons here are 
 returns from Quake 2 (albheit much more beautiful and satisfying to use) , there are some new additions, 
 mainly the Dark Matter Gun (replacing the BFG 10k) , and the new nailgun, which is like an amalgamation 
 of the chain gun from Quake 2 and the nailgun from the original Quake (and in my opinion, is one 
 of the best guns of any game ever) . Almost all of your weapons have a very solid, heavy feel to 
 them. They just feel POWERFUL. A sad exception to this is the railgun, a favourite of the Quake 
 series that has been inexplicably toned down for this game. Even when it gets modified to have 
 a 300% damage increase, it still feels pretty weedy, so will probably be the weapon you use the 
 least (after the blaster, of course) . All of your weapons get modified throughout the course of 
 the game, and while some of these are pretty passive (such as extra damage) , some are really impressive 
 (such as the tracking scope for the nailgun, or the bounce shot for the hyperblaster) , and change 
 the look of your weapons as well.
  
  One thing about this game that can hardly be faulted is its presentation. This game looks STUNNING, 
 and the Doom 3 engine has been put to excellent use in creating its visuals. In fact, the engine 
 is probably being put to better use here than in Doom 3, as it is much lighter. This allows you 
 to appreciate the visuals much more as you lead the invasion of Stroggos than when you were escaping 
 the UAC mars base in 2004. However, with better visuals come even better depictions of gore, and 
 this game is certainly not for the squeemish. By the end of the game, you will likely have spilled 
 enough blood to fllod the world twice over, and some of the things you'll see in the Strogg bases 
 are very disturbing (such as human torsos with the limbs AND head cut off being kept alive for 
 use as batteries) . The sound throughout is very good as well, with excellent voice acting and a 
 very satisfying musical score, that helps get the the adrenaline pumping for a long firefight, 
 or heightens the tension at critical moments. The only problem I had with the presentation was 
 the grainy backround pictures they have in place when you're playing the outdoor sections, which 
 are so painfully 2D you almost end up screaming "WHY GOD!?! WHY!?!" These bland attempts at creating 
 depth would be ignored on almost all other FPSs, but when the overall presentation is this good 
 you can't help but notice them, as if there's a huge pink elephant in the room you're trying to 
 ignore...
  
  While writing this review, I've realised that my opening may not have been ENTIRELY accurate. It 
 seemed that Raven Software were not completely happy with making a straight-forward, old-style 
 FPS, and have tried to modernise it slightly by adding in VEHICLE SECTIONS. These are by far the 
 weakest parts of the game, and while they're not exactly TERRIBLE, they do detract from the fun 
 of the main sections. Thankfully, they're quite brief and not too difficult, so you should be back 
 to killing Strogg on foot in no time. Also, there are a few parts in the game that are played for 
 scares, mainly (without trying to give too much away) the Strogg recycling plant. But I'll let 
 you find out about that for yourself.
  
  Overall, this is a solid and very fun FPS, that should satisfy those who remember the "good old 
 days" of PC gaming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FlankerDFMax
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 13, 2006 8:16 am PT
Review:  This game looks better than Doom 3 (mostly because you can actually see more than just darkness) 
 and runs smoother too. Add in excellent sound, an adequate storyline, lots of enemies, and that 
 famous twitch and shoot Quake style of gameplay and it's the best of the series. The AI isn't very 
 (maybe Nova Logic developed it?) but there is a lot of it. None of the weapons seem very powerful 
 too me, especially against higher enemies, and the machine gun sound is lame enough to be an embarassment 
 to the Devs (or it should be anyway) . Does anyone else hate grenade lanchers that fire grenades 
 that look like red glowing soup cans and don't fire as far as you could throw one? I know I do. 
 The rail sequences (riding in the back of a hover truck manning a machine gun, driving a hover 
 tank later in the game, and later still in a walking armor suit) are all too predictable. They 
 probably could have been made into regular levels and the game would have been improved. Having 
 said all that.......... I like this game. Some of the fire fights are really good and it's defintely 
 excellent eye candy on the higher graphics settings. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MetalGearST
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 10, 2006 1:09 pm PT
Review:  Ok I accept that the multi-player mode is a little bad, but hey! you must remember that Quake used 
 to be a single-player adventure, and now this game ist the top on graphics, sound and game-play 
 from all the shooters in the market, and if you liked Quake II, I think you're gonna love this 
 game.
  I feel like this game get focus more in the story than other Quake before, the system requirements 
 are a so big, but in this time every game ask for requirements very similar.
  If you are a fan from ID games i think this game is for you, but always is better to take care 
 so if you know a place where you can rent this game, try it first and i'm sure you are gonna like 
 them.
  ID and Activision made a great game like always. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skyyfox1
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 14, 2008 11:28 pm PT
Review:  This game has some really good points. i bought this game thinking it would be like doom 3 with 
 some superficial enhancements. Quake 4 is not only better than doom 3, it is way better than doom 
 3. i thought doom 3 was a great game and way better than anything else available. Quake 4 uses 
 the doom 3 engine to it's fullest advantage. it even has vehicles which as far as i know, doom 
 3 didn't have. Quake 4 multi-player is intense and very satisfying. you will notice that it has 
 some similarities to quake 3 arena. the multi-player maps are well done and the weapons are incredible. 
 i think this is the best game available right now. it is top notch. single player is very well 
 done, with character modles that are outstanding. it is a great game even for people like me who 
 are not that good at video games. you will find yourself playing this game at 5am in the morning 
 and wanting to play another hour. it is that good. the graphics are good with an nvidia card or 
 ati card. it doesn't matter, it is still awesome. ragdoll physics are nice. blowing a strogg soldier 
 away with your trusty shotgun is fun. i think this game is well made, stays close to it's predecessor, 
 and is faithfull to the series. a great game for experienced and inexperience gamers alike. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MasterX-slo
Rating: 7.7
Date: Feb 6, 2006 5:04 am PT
Review:  This Quake sucks, big time. Quake III arena was my favorite FPS, but this game, this game sucks, sucks, sucks, sucks. 
 Don't buy it, because the multi-player is the most disgusting multi-player, the single-player is 
 good fun, but it sucks, the weapons suck, because the are too slow. But if you love previously 
 Quake games, I still wouldn't recommend it to you, because it is so BAD. I would rather reccomend 
 to all of the Quake fans Unreal Tournament wich is 5 times better than Quake. But if you still 
 want this game RENT IT FIRST, and then you will se how disgusting it is, but the graphics are AWESOME. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zaohed
Rating: 7.4
Date: Feb 5, 2006 10:09 pm PT
Review:  Quake 4 is one of those games that I watched for months once Doom 3 was announced and released. 
 It had the makings of a great game. Stunning, vibrant graphics, the necessary amount of gore, excitement, 
 and a top notch franchise backing it up. Now, once I have finished the game I can see that the 
 things that made the this game one to get excited about were the same things that doomed it (no 
 pun intended) once I got into it. 
  First the graphics. This game utilizes the Doom 3 engine which has the capability of rendering 
 crisp, organic looking visuals. The problem is that the devs tried to take too much from the Doom 
 3 game and not enough from the Doom 3 engine. I found the graphics rushed and in some ways, cut 
 and pasted, right out of Doom. The blend of the organic and the mechanic can only be done so many 
 times before it loses it's edge. Especially with the up coming game Prey which looks again the 
 same. The outdoor environments still look clumsily put together and claustrophobic, with back drops 
 that could have been made in Microsoft Paint. Don't get me wrong the graphics are good, just not 
 what they should have been for a game with this much hype and an engine that has already been used 
 to produce better. 
  Next comes the gore. The Doom engine while it is remarkable for it's ability to produce exquisite 
 organic objects, I felt that it was used beyond what was even necessary for the game. There was 
 a balance lost when there are so many horrific things going on around you and you kill the same 
 bad guy 7000 times and he dies the same as the last 6999th one, and his body still disappears. 
 You see corpses lying around and hooked to machines and all this and it doesn't appear relevant 
 enough to make me care at all that it is happening. Finally there is the infamous Stroggification 
 scene that has become so popular. DON'T GET YOUR HOPES UP! There is a definite lacking in the ability 
 to make me care this is happening to my body when its the first time that I've seen my body in 
 the entire game outside of cutscenes. I found it worse to watch it happen to the guy ahead of me 
 than to myself. There is nothing done in the scene to tie me to the event than the sounds of some 
 screaming. GORE FOR GORE SAKE DOES NOT MAKE A GOOD GAME. IT NEEDS CONTEXT AND IMMERSIVENESS. 
 
  As far as the franchise goes it is a stellar franchise. Being able to bring something new to the 
 table at each iteration; other than this one. The game is plagued with gimmick and stolen ideas 
 with only a few shining moments of original thought. 
  If you haven't got any expectations about this game and have never heard about it or these things 
 don't concern you, despite these hangups it is still one of the more fun shootem ups I have played 
 in a long time. The excitement level is kept up and there is never really a lull in the fighting 
 once your in it. That is one thing they got right. This game gets two thumbs up for fun, two thumbs 
 down for ingenuity. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigpimpfattony
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 5, 2006 12:39 pm PT
Review:  Quake 4 is the best game in the Quake series, but got the lowest score. You guys are too picky. 
 I know Quake 4 uses Doom 3 graphics engine, but that's not a reason to lower the score down to 
 an 8. Quake 4 was much funner than Doom 3, there was no PDA, no flashlight switching, and the enemies 
 weren't as easy as expected. Quake 4 has a great level design, with a good use of the Doom 3 graphics 
 engine, enchancing the experience. The lighting was perfect, although there were moments when you 
 had to use the crappy Blaster or Machinegun for flashlight (the only 2 weapons with flashlight 
 on them) . The weapons selection was awesome, all the weapons from quake 1-3 were there, and even 
 funner to just shoot. Killing enemies gives you an intense boost and makes you feel like you're 
 in the game. 
  
  Quake 4, great game, 9/10, That's what it deserves guys... not an 8. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: F2tality
Rating: 8.1
Date: Feb 5, 2006 6:26 am PT
Review:  I bought Quake 4 for the PC thinking it was going to be an enthralling and amazing experience. 
 I mean it's QUAKE. However, I started playing it and found that it wasn't very innovative or exciting. 
 It's actually a little repetitive. But I stuck with it and then got to the vehicle sequences. These 
 were pretty decent and gave a little variety to the gameplay. Then, the game ended. Yes this is 
 a short and pretty easy campaign. But wait! I bet that the great multiplayer will add plenty of 
 hours to it right?. Not exactly. You see the muiltiplayer boils down to small arena style battles. 
 Four people with only one game mode-deathmatch. I stay open minded when I found this out becuase 
 if Id only made one game mode they must have made it really good. It turns out that it was pretty 
 average. The online moves fast and you WILL GET SCHOOLED until you can get used to the speed of 
 it. This will turn alot of people off. After getting used to online I found that it was much more 
 repetitive than the single player and I ditched it faster than I beat this game. Now Quake 4 is 
 collecting dust in my bedroom. 
  A pretty good, again very short, single player and and amazing graphics are this games only tricks 
 but if you are looking for a quick FPS fix go and pick this one up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamingprincess
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 3, 2006 7:59 pm PT
Review:  This time i am and it took very little effort to do it./ From the opening scene to the end i was 
 in ah. however when yu play a great game you feel sorrow when its done you really want it to continue. 
 Just one more battle please  this fps (havent done multiplayer) keeps you going and guessing. There 
 is no end to the creatures they throw at you. when you Think you have a handle on it another thing 
 shows up. Sometimes two three things. picture a women with no legs that flys has rocket launchers 
 for arms. or giant spiders or spider women, Your comander sticks you in an upright tank,. sound 
 effects of your footsteps is neat. fight rolling bolders that shoot at ya. drop into a lab where 
 you watch what they do to you and fellow solders. then see the remains hanging on walls. men, no 
 arms legs heads in vices moneing crying i want to shoot them help them.. sorry NO. then the the 
 basement. natch everything liquid flows Down. ankle deep red frothing flowing water from sewer 
 pipes. zombies legless zombies. just a small taste... if they could invent smell or oder for games 
 i can only imagine. 100 different things could be said abut this game. ONE-FANTASTIC- comes to 
 mind. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kevin_Davila89
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 1, 2006 11:04 pm PT
Review:  ... Doom 3.... Quake 4.......?
  
  
  
  
  i have nothing else to say i have nothing else to say i have nothing else to say i have nothing 
 else to say i have nothing else to say i have nothing else to say i have nothing else to say i 
 have nothing else to say i have nothing else to say i have nothing else to say i have nothing else 
 to say i have nothing else to say i have nothing else to say i have nothing else to say i have 
 nothing else to say i have nothing else to say i have nothing else to say i have nothing else to 
 say i have nothing else to say i have nothing else to say i have nothing else to say i have nothing 
 else to say i have nothing else to say i have nothing else to say i have nothing else to say i 
 have nothing else to say i have nothing else to say i have nothing else to say i have nothing else 
 to say i have nothing else to say i have nothing else to say i have nothing else to say i have 
 nothing else to say i have nothing else to say i have nothing else to say i have nothing else to 
 say i have nothing else to say i have nothing else to say i have nothing else to say i have nothing 
 else to say i have nothing else to say i have nothing else to say i have nothing else to say i 
 have nothing else to say i have nothing else to say 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cometking
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 1, 2006 5:32 am PT
Review:  After reading a couple of reviews of Quake4 claiming it was "too much like Doom", or "it's been 
 done before", I was a bit let down by what some people thought of it. As soon I started to play 
 it, I was gripped from beginning till the end. I loved it. And I even thought it was the best Quake 
 game to date. Maybe not as revolutionary as the original Quake, but a great game nevertheless. 
 The story was interesting, so too the characters. There was also plenty of nice fmv sequences to 
 move the story along, and the difficulty in finishing the game quite fulfilling. Big thumbs up 
 to raven for quake4, just shows that not all reviews in magazines are accurate. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cablestein
Rating: 6.3
Date: Jan 31, 2006 12:18 pm PT
Review:  *spoiler warning*
  
  List of annoying stuff in Quake4:
  
  -Why are there no secondary shooting modes for the weapons? The weapon upgrades you receive through 
 the game are cool, but aside from that there should be standard secondary modes on all the weapons. 
 It would at least make a boring game more interesting.
  
  -Why don't the enemies take damage when they are in the middle of a special animation? For example, 
 you see an enemy lift his spike-arm in the air and thrust it into the ground to create a shockwave 
 that hits you... during this time he takes no damage. You can hit him with 2 rockets during this, 
 and they do not register. It's incredibly stupid... and such a thing was acceptable in earlier 
 shooters (pre-2004) but nowadays it's really lame.
  
  -How many ways can you extend a bridge? It makes no practical sense why the Strogg would create 
 so many fancy ways to extend a bridge. It seems like a running gag throughout the whole game as-if 
 different map designers did their own version of an extending bridge. 
  
  -There was an entire sequence of you being partially transformed into a Strogg. This transformation 
 had almost no effect on the game. Your view did not change, your weapons did not change, your abilities 
 did not change. It became useful only in two or three scripted sequences where you could pass through 
 a scanner but your human friends couldn't. This game could have been thrusted into 8 out of 10 
 if they simply expanded on this transformation. I saw all kinds of different guns the Strogg had, 
 that perhaps you could've used as a Strogg. Unbelievable they let this through, this makes the 
 game bargain-bin status.
  
  -Why is the rail gun so weak? And why can you only load three shots at once?
  
  -Why is the 
 Dark Matter gun (BFG) so weak? It has no apparent effects either. Only certain times you can actually 
 see some objects get slowly sucked into it. The Quake2 BFG was far better, with laser rays darting 
 out to enemies.
  
  -Another space-shooter game... Aliens Vs Predator 2, came out a couple years ago... but featured 
 way more innovation than this game. Where are the portable welding torches? Scanners? Various flashlights 
 and lamps? These are the things you see NPC's use in cinematics in Quake4, but yourself you never 
 touch that special stuff. Quake4 is unbelievably bland even for the mindless-shooter category.
 
  
  -There should have been a space battle scene.
  
  -There should have been some scene's with multiple vehicles on a battlefield (a giant field with 
 different tanks) .
  
  -There should be more squad play like Call of Duty. Not the entire game, but just a little more.
 
  
  -All the enemies are boring and poorly animated.
  
  -You cannot see much enemy animation because of all the lights and flashes the weapons create. 
 Everything is just a notch too busy. Give this disco-circus stuff a break let's see some real animation 
 and detail behind it all. It's too easy for the developer to crowd the screen with glowing sprites.
 
  
  -Where is the location damage? It would be nice to see how the enemies are affected and damaged 
 by your shots. Guess what? They aren't.
  THIS GAME HAS NO LOCATION DAMAGE. This means you cannot shoot heads or limbs off. Tell me is that 
 a high-profile 2005 shooter? I don't think so. Really stupid. Wouldn't it be cool to shoot off 
 a Strogg limb and see the organics-mechanics being shredded up, sparkling and dangling?
  
  -Some guys die and the float in mid air or land at wierd angles.
  
  -Game intro cinematic: 
 Can you say Aliens and Starship Troopers rip-offs ? How can they get away with it?
  
  The good points:
  
  -All of the video displays in the game are really cool.
  
  -The level 
 where you many other soldiers fly from space in the drop pods into the Strogg building.... VERY 
 cool. Best sequence and level in the game.
  
  -The human soldier models are pretty nice looking. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adema360
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 30, 2006 9:56 am PT
Review:  In Quake 4 you play as a space marine, named Matthew Kane who has just been assigned to Rhino squad. 
 This is following the events of Quake II when the nameless space marine had killed the Makron. 
 So the space marines are invading planet Stroggos to finish off the strogg forces. As in most FPS 
 games you play the strong silent type, but everyone else around you seems to talk enough to help 
 you through the game. This game was very well designed, levels are very large and fun to play. 
 The voice acting was done fairly well in this game, even though eventually you start to feel like 
 its the same voices, but still done well for the most part. There are medics and tech people that 
 can refill your health and armor throughout the game, some even follow you carrying a gun and help 
 you through the game at points. The story of the game was pretty well done, Makron dead get the 
 strogg while they're down before they get us. At about half way though the game you yourself become 
 strogg, then your squad luckily comes to save you. The graphics of this game are absolutely wonderful. 
 They use the same graphics engine as Doom 3, and they also made a few improvements. The also added 
 a mounted flashlight to your pistol and your main assault riffle. So lighting is no longer a problem 
 like in Doom 3, but you can turn it on and off if your into that same style of experience. The 
 multi-player was designed similar to Quake III, and actually has allot of the same levels, so the 
 its kinda a dud since your rehashing those levels, they do look nicer and there are a few new ones, 
 but they really could have improved the multi-player. The multi-player also does not have bots 
 so its not like you and a couple friends can just play it together and really enjoy it or you can 
 do it by yourself, such as in Quake III. The replay is pretty fun just because the single player 
 has a pretty good story and really is a fun experience, but there really is not anything to unlock 
 or anything. All in all this is by far one of the most fun FPS games out there. Quake 4 really 
 shows what a good fun FPS should be like, and I highly recommend it for those into action FPS games 
 that have a good computer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iXBuRny
Rating: 5.2
Date: Jan 29, 2006 9:36 pm PT
Review:  Now, I waited patiently for this blessed game. When that day came I couldnt wait to get my hands 
 on this badboy. Now dont get me wrong, the Single Player is pretty decent.... its the Multiplayer 
 that was a slap in the face. It left me scratching my head wondering, is that it? Are you kidding 
 me?? I was like a kid who didn't get his way. I wanted to throw a tantrum! I have tried to play 
 Multi again a few times, but it leaves me wanting to throw my mouse to the side and bang my head 
 on the keyboard a few times just to make myself remember that its not gonna get any better dammit... 
 
  
  AAh ooh well, for all of us Q3'ers, it is the end as we know it...... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shatilov
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 29, 2006 2:16 pm PT
Review:  The Good : This game contain a great single-player campaign that make you interact with the elements 
 of the game as if that you are living it yourself . It also contain a lot of new weapons & some 
 of them are old from previous parts but they have a brand new look that make you forget the old 
 one's ( such as the Grenade Luncher ) . 
  
  The Bad : Although the single playing is great , yet the multiplayer cant get even worse , the 
 maps for the multiplayer gaming are to Quake III , which make you feel playing Quake III rather 
 that Quake4 .
  
  At the end I think those who love Action games especially Sci-Fi games I think that they should 
 buy this game & give it a try , they will love it for sure . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gadeos
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 28, 2006 11:53 pm PT
Review:  OK, Quake II was a hell of a game (the same is for the first) . Q 3 was a nince multiplayer (online 
 or not) expirience, worth of your time. The first two definetely rocked, but... man!!! Q 4's just 
 amazing in every aspect. Graphics are amazing wether U have a standar or super-performance PC; 
 full action packed and superb sound, both combinated, makes you feel inside. It's really been a 
 while since I don't have this much fun with an FPS (and hey! I'm a big fan of this category) . To 
 be honest, there's more to find in Quake 4 than its counter part, DOOM 3 (which is also awsome) , 
 simply because it has more innovative elements than the latter. Man, if you're a fan, damn you're 
 late; if you're not.... what are you wating for (I had to wait many months until I had the necessary 
 hardware to play it, and even if it's not the best one, it's just enough to enjoy it) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rentago
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jan 28, 2006 3:23 pm PT
Review:  This game is just your standard game with a one way ticket to hell starting off with only dark 
 hallways so dont expect to hide from those retarded monsters that seem to be taken from diablo2 
 it is a sad day. One day some dude game in and this guy was like "All your base belong to us" and 
 all these retarded skeletons shooting fire balls came in after you and all you had was a flash 
 light... but don't lose hope it even gets worst! You only have one hallway to go.. yup there is 
 no alternative than the blood stained walls that look like a cut and paste from your computer's 
 photo shop. Its the same damn thing like WW2 games that never end. We get tired of them people 
 if you can't create a game with some ideas in mind other than a dark hall way that you know some 
 ugly mutant grandma is going to attack you than don't make it at all!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: woef
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 27, 2006 12:29 pm PT
Review:  Hi im going to tell you about Quake 4.
  
  First of all the graphics:
  Quake 4 runs on the doom 3 engine, which is good in some ways, but bad in other ways.
  First 
 of all, you must have a good and decent computer to run quake 4 or it will lag extremely.
  The graphics are good though, like the people and enemies look really realistic.
  
  Sounds 
 and music:
  Quake 4 has good sounds, weapons sounds are very nice, nice enemy taunts, good voice acting.
 
  Music is average.
  
  Variety:
  Good variety, because there are lots of different maps, enemies and weapons.
  Weapons can even 
 be upgraded, thats a big+.
  
  Online:
  Average, old classic deathmatch and team deathmatch, which isnt very new.
  Its identical too 
 Quake 3 Arena.
  
  Gameplay:
  Best of all comes gameplay, with 2 vehicles, lots of weapons, challenging enemies.
  Vehicles 
 are very easy too control though.
  Different kinds of maps, not only inside like Doom3.
  
  Value:
  Good, online and single makes a + point.
  Replayable in different dificulties.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jimboryno
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 27, 2006 12:56 am PT
Review:  After finishing Doom 3, I just had to try out Quake 4 for myself. I was'nt impressed at first, 
 but as the time went by I got into the action quite nicely. I soon was to realise that ID software 
 made a huge improvement on the gameplay. More daylight instead of the darkness there was in Doom 
 3. At least you can see what you are shooting at.
  
  So yeah, it's definitely a game to be played if you like to take on a challenge. And as I soon 
 discovered, it's not as easy as it seems to be. I finished the game on Level 2, I'm having another 
 go on the most difficult level now. 
  
  If you think Doom 3 Ressurection of Evil was Scary, try this one out. You are bound to have some 
 nightmares, so have this in mind if you don't like the scary and hardcore stuff!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ben_popwwe
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 25, 2006 9:57 am PT
Review:  A collaborative effort between Raven Software (known for the ultra-gory Soldier of Fortune) and 
 iD, Quake 4 has been eagerly awaited since the revelation of its existence at QuakeCon '01, and 
 has the honour of being the first Doom 3 engine game on the market (Prey having not hit the shelves 
 at the time of writing) . 
  
  The question on everyone's minds right now is, does it measure up? The answer is more difficult 
 to put together than one might immediately suspect. 
  
  A direct and true sequel to 1997's Quake II, Q4 picks up where the first game left off, as the 
 forces of Earth once again invade Stroggos, home planet of the hostile biomechanist Strogg, but 
 this time as space marine Matthew Kane, member of Rhino Squad. 
  
  Amidst the carnage of a bungled landing (including a gorgeous opening sequence featuring mangled 
 bodies floating soundlessly in space) , you must get your squad together and march on the Strogg 
 capital, to take out the newly rebuilt Makron (the big bad Strogg commander) .
  
  One of the first things any spectator notices on seeing Q4 in play is that it's a real looker. 
 While not quite as impressive as F. E. A. R.'s multi-splendiferous pyrotechnics, Raven has still managed 
 to ensure that their baby packs a strong visual punch, and combined with a rocketing pace and varied 
 environments, everything comes together well as a package (though one has little time to stand 
 around and stare at the scenery) . 
  
  While backed by the Doom 3 engine, Q4 sports many open-air environments, a feature many thought 
 difficult if not impossible, given the demon-shooter's arguably poor showing when it came to the 
 outdoors.
  
  Also unlike its daddy, Quake 4 does a much better job of combat, lacking as it does those painful 
 and stupid areas of wall which look absolutely normal until you walk past them, after which the 
 perfectly serviceable lighting drops deader than Mama Cass at the local delicatessen and said bit 
 of wall disappears to be replaced by multiple spawn points (we call them 'monster closets' in the 
 business) . 
  
  Intriguingly, you also get many more enemies and NPCs on screen at once, and combined with a much 
 higher base frame rate than Big Daddy Doom, one suspects many optimisations on the part of Raven 
 Software.
  
  That, or those endless miles of corridor were more detailed than we thought. Not that it mattered, 
 since you couldn't see anything anyway. 
  
  Ahem.
  
  Assuming the role of Kane, your objectives start out as orders not much more complex than, "One 
 frothy latte, two donuts, and a ham roll, hold the butter, two sugars, kill everything that gets 
 in your way and don't drop anything. And get a receipt." 
  
  As time goes on, however, you get a taste of independence, culminating in vehicular play onboard 
 a large tank and a mechanised walker-bot, both armed with machine guns and missile launchers, and 
 these are indeed fun to play with, lacking though the controls can sometimes be (i. e. the tank 
 turret, in particular, could do with a slightly larger vertical aiming arc) . 
  
  This, though, is a minor complaint, and overall the vehicles are fun without feeling like a contrived 
 novelty.
  
  Speaking of machine guns and missile launchers, and the various dogs of war, what is an FPS without 
 weapons? It is much like a cheesecake without that crunchy, crumbly layer of crust at the very 
 bottom that keeps me coming back for serve after serve; that is, it is not a cheesecake. Nor, might 
 I add, is it an FPS. 
  
  Thank the gods of gameplay, then, that Raven have seen fit to include a suitable arsenal to outfit 
 the progeny of one of the greatest FPS series to ever grace a personal computer.
  
  From your standard pistol/assault rifle/shotgun combo, we ascend to the heights of hyperblasters, 
 lightning guns, rail guns, nail guns, rocket launchers and Dark Matter cannons, and these all have 
 a practical purpose, even, indeed, down to the lowly blaster pistol and rifle (which, I might add, 
 come with flashlights pre-attached to their frames, an iD touch, no doubt part and parcel of a 
 lesson learned from the original Doom 3 backlash [i. e. it's too bloody dark in here] ) . 
  
  In turn, the Strogg menagerie is equally varied, and you'll come up against everything from foot 
 soldiers and gun-wielding grunts to mechanised animals and gigantic spider-walkers, and beyond 
 to the worst nightmares of the twisted flesh-molding labs of the inner Strogg complex. 
  
  Raven has given full vent to their creative urges, and the result is a game that in the main looks 
 nothing like Doom 3, which is a considerable achievement, and one that should be applauded since 
 I'm sure the temptation was strong to turn this into yet another corridor-shooter. 
  
  Teleporters (through which you can fire, w00t) , jump pads that allow you to bounce grenades as 
 well as yourself, Quake 4 is a game of firsts, and, another first for the Quake series, NPC team-members 
 play a big part in your game. 
  
  You don't feel like a lone trooper any longer, meeting up on your merry way with the many members 
 of the human incursion force, from the various squads (denoted by your highly useful HUD) . When 
 you finally do meet up with Rhino Squad, you'll be assigned a medic and a grunt, and these guys, 
 while not brainiac-brilliant, can definitely fight for themselves. They strafe, take down enemies, 
 use available cover, and generally work like a unit, as opposed to a collective of cannon fodder 
 who could not hit the bottom of the ocean if they were standing on it. 
  
  When not enjoying a rambunctious stroll through the Stroggian countryside, your men enjoy good 
 conversation, and, led by the talented Peter Stormare (8mm) , the professional-level cast does a 
 excellent job of voicing-over the human aggressors, giving your blood-thirsty marines personalities 
 all of their own, which you will come to love, hate and admire over time. Dare I say it, it can 
 be quite a bonding experience!
  
  The Strogg, on the other hand, are an ugly bunch of bio-mechanoid freaks who speak in grunts and 
 groans, but they do it so well, though, unlike your marines, their single technique seems to consist 
 of swarming you until you mow them down, but then what do you expect of a hive-mind?
  
  For those who like their challenges a little more human, multiplayer goes like it should, feeling 
 a lot like Quake 3, which isn't altogether a bad thing (though many of our fellow publications 
 have made it out to be) , lending itself to fast and furious skirmishing with up to sixteen players 
 to a server, though most of the fourteen launch maps feel just a tad too small to support that 
 many players without more than a little cramped style. 
  
  Thankfully, however, the modding community is already taking to Quake 4 like a duck takes to a 
 fluid medium optimised for the aqueous transmission of momentum (that is, brake fluid, which ducks 
 are renowned for taking to) , and we should see many user-created maps hitting the net in the next 
 few months.
  
  A worthy continuation of the Quake name that has been, in this reviewer's humble opinion, unfairly 
 slammed for not taking its multiplayer component more seriously (though one must ask what people 
 expected when it was going to be a primarily single-player game anyway) . Quake 4 takes something 
 old and something new and blends the two together in impeccable style. 
  
  If you're looking for a deep, fun FPS with an excellent pedigree and industry-leading production 
 values, an engrossing and complex single-player campaign, and you aren't looking for Counter-Strike 
 on Mars, then you can't go past Quake 4, proof that space is a more interesting place when it's 
 full of crazed aliens.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: no1alboogie
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jan 23, 2006 9:42 pm PT
Review:  I dont really know what I expected from this game, but as far as FPSs are concerned, its a great 
 game. The graphics are some of the best, thanks to the DOOM3 engine. The detail is awesome. The 
 lighting and shadows are great, which gives the game that whats in that corner type of feel 
 to it. The sound is above average too, nice little soundtrack when things are a bit slow, which 
 isnt very often. Usually, youll get to listen to a buddy or two letting you know whats going 
 on, or what you should be doing. The weapons sound pretty good, along with the other sound effects. 
 So, as far as FPSs, you cant really go wrong with this one.
  You get to play as a marine fighting off the Strogg. Most of the time youre alone, but there are 
 plenty of parts where you have a little company. When you do have a little help, they actually 
 do help you a bit instead of just standing there waiting to be killed, that was nice. When you 
 dont have any help, you have a huge arsenal to pick a weapon from, some being a little more handier 
 than others, but youll always have something to shoot. The story is pretty straight forward, you 
 get your objective, you go take care of it, anything gets in your way, shoot it. The graphics are 
 really what makes the game.
  If youre into multiplayer, this probably isnt the game for you. The game has a solid single player 
 mode, but when it comes to the multiplayer, it seems they just threw a few rooms together and said 
 go blow yourselves up in there. Its not bad, fast paced, plenty of action, just uninspired, kinda 
 boring.
  Its a great game if youre into FPSs, just think twice if you just want it for the multiplayer 
 part. Happy Hunting
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: falconclan
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 23, 2006 5:32 pm PT
Review:  so i got quake 4 as an early buy for my new pc... i had to wait a few months to play it, once i 
 acctualy got my computer and poped in the quake disc and started to play... i was slightly diapointed... 
 i played an hour or so, and it seemed okay, but after playing new games like F. E. A. R. and Counter 
 Strike Source and other great games... well it didnt seem quiet up to par. it took until i finaly 
 beat F. E. A. R. and slowed down on the css that i poped it back in, again i practicaly had to force 
 myself to play, but then, a certain part made me feel like i had to play more for almost no reason. 
 (not a big spoiler but a spoiler) its when the large ship (HUGE) flew down... it really felt like 
 we were finaly going into a war. so as usual i kept playing and got to this part with a tank, most 
 people would think "meh" at this point but really its when it hit the real action. Ships were flying 
 around everywhere, turrets flying into the ground and unloading on me, after all this war excitement 
 for me i felt like i was pretty much through with the tank scenes, but i was wrong. The part that 
 came next made me want to play more and more and more. There were these huge robot spider things 
 (futuristic stuff like this makes me giddy: P) im used to the usual fps games on console and had 
 never really been wowed till christmas day, but this was just cool. i love all the action and cool 
 things you run into. (|Ok thats the end of the spoilers i think|) . So basicly this is why i love 
 the game, the futuristic war style of it is just fun for me. Now let me break it down....
  
  Gameplay: fun futuristic strogg battling? AWESOME!
  Graphics: doom 3 type-a-stuff... its 
 nothing new but it still looks beautiful.
  Sound: if you have the right stuff it sounds awesome... the large explosions loud in 5.1 are awesome 
 with the subwoofer rattling the ground!
  Value: well basicly i docked one point off this one because of the slow begining...
  Reviewers 
 tilt: Dont get me wrong, its a truly amazing game, but are you trying to tell me there hasnt been 
 another space war shooter?
  Most memorable moment: (SPOILERS) when your being "stroggified" its real gruesome but the after 
 effects are cool, you become stronger, your faster, you can even jump higher O_O and lets just 
 face it Cain didnt look cool until he did get turned into a super cyborg O_o (end spoilers) (end 
 review) 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: w0rmy
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 21, 2006 11:42 pm PT
Review:  The single player absolutely blows away Doom 3 and comes off feeling much more like a cross between 
 HL2 and Quake 2 than I expected. The story is interesting without slowing the game play. Mostly 
 you can expect lots of action from the moment you step into the game. The game rarely slows down 
 for pointless explanations that do nothing to push the story or the game play forward.
  
  The multiplayer has some issues but I'm sure these problems will be fixed in usual id style. It 
 comes off feeling a lot like Quake 3 but the maps are not quite as open which is just a little 
 disappointing. Lots of confined spaces and tight hallways. No doubt mod makers will have some more 
 interesting maps in the not too distant future.
  
  Quake 4 is a worthy single player game but don't even think about buying it for the multiplayer. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jac5232
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 20, 2006 6:43 pm PT
Review:  Now I've never played any of the Quake games before this, but I can say that I enjoyed this game 
 a lot. Graphics are good, game play is good, the machine gun is better sounding than in Doom 3, 
 so is the shotgun for that matter. The multi play is good as well. The mods should make it even 
 better though. The only flaws were that the game did get easy at times in Normal mode, and that 
 the final boss is pretty pathetic. Also, the ending was pretty much "yawn". Still, it's like life. 
 It's the journey that matters, not the destination. And you'll have one helluva good journey in 
 this game. Just have a good PC though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ElectronicPest
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 18, 2006 9:46 am PT
Review:  This game is better than F. E. A. R. but still not good enough
  
  The graphics arent as good as F. E. A. R. s
  The AI isnt as good as F. E. A. R. s
  
  The gameplay 
 is better than F. E. A. R. s because its got some thrilling moments and more variety like vehicle parts 
 
  
  The multiplayer is just as bad as F. E. A. R. s
  
  The plot isnt as good as F. E. A. R. s
  
  The editing tools are better than F. E. A. R. s and it has 
 a better engine because with lithtech its impossible to make anything close to a TC 
  
  so i think you should buy this instead of F. E. A. R
  
  and if you think F. E. A. R. is better than 
 this then your sad and have no life at all 
::::::

::::::
UserName: averagewhiteguy
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 18, 2006 5:54 am PT
Review:  Well, after playing Quake for hours and hours, I have mixed feelings. As far as graphics go, if 
 you've got the machine, and it takes a machine with some serious muscle to do it, the game looks 
 amazing. The Strogg medical facility, the waste facility, and the putrification facility are really, 
 really, terrifically horrifying places. The game earns its M rating. Another cool thing about the 
 game is the way the machinery, bridges, and the like, work. However, even on the easiest playing 
 level, the game is very difficult. Survival is tough. It seemed to me that the Strogg (aka bad 
 guys) were too difficult to kill with the weapons at your disposal. Also, the numbers of these 
 hard to kill critters, which would attack you all at once, made it nearly impossible to survive. 
 As you get closer to fighting the final boss, which actually consists of a multiple boss fight, 
 you never think you're ever going to get there. Each time you go through a door to another area, 
 thinking that this next area has to be where you'll meet the boss, you find yourself in another 
 fight for dear life with a large group of incredibly tough, blood thirsty Scrogg. In the last levels, 
 the game seems to go on and on, desperate fight after desperate fight, before you finally end up 
 fighting the final boss. To sum it up, Quake 4 looks fantastic, and the interface is good. However, 
 the game absolutely wore me out. One trip through Stroggos was enough for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Princess_Kalia
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 17, 2006 4:19 pm PT
Review:  Quake 4 is not a game for a person who's looking for a higly in depfth storyline. It has just enough 
 storyline to keep you interested in playing the game. The major downfalls of the game are mainly 
 it can become boring at times. It's repeative but not nearly to the same extent as Doom 3. Quake 
 4 also has a variety of outdoor activities which include riding on a tram car shooting things out 
 of the air, riding in a mech assualt vehicle, trians and much more to mix things up. The storyline 
 was semi interesting, but the game felt like I was doing the same things all the way though it. 
 The cut scenes are amazing., The graphics are amazing on the PC, espically with a high end machine 
 you will be amazed by the quality produced by ID, Activision and Raven and their usage of the Doom 
 3 engine. It takes the Doom 3 engine to an entirely new level. As far as weapons go, you have a 
 good selection. One of the best parts about this game was their willingness to bring back the nail 
 gun, which was a huge help in the game and a huge bit of fun. If you enjoy shoot'm up games, you 
 will definately enjoy Quake 4. If you are buying this game solely for the multiplayer, I would 
 suggest just sticking to Quake 3. Hardly anyone plays on the servers, and it's just a lipstick 
 version of Quake 3. Some of the same maps are even used. Overall, this game keep me interested 
 for the short period of time, it left me at a clift hanger and gave me very nice and interesting 
 cutscences, espically the one of where you turn into a Strogg. The game itsefl is not very hard, 
 depending on your expeience as a FPS gamer. If you play a lot of FPS gamings this one should be 
 no problem. If not, the learning curve shouldnt' take you too long. If you are a Quake fan, you 
 will definately enjoy this one. If you are looking for a FPS with an indef storyline, play Half 
 Life 2 or FEAR. Overall, this was a fun and enjoyable game and the graphics are amazing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wild_Card
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 16, 2006 10:52 pm PT
Review:  Q4 is with out a dout what doom3 should have been. While i dont put it in the same class as HL2 
 i will say its well worth the price to play. graphics are great and the fact that the game does 
 not over kill you with shadows makes them all the better. Game play is pretty standerd FPS fair. 
 mission structure is good. AI how ever is nothing to realy brag about but at least the baddies 
 dont just jump out of closets. the story is good dureing the first half of the game but kinda blands 
 out in the later stages. Wepons look good and thay have a bit of depth to them "the standerd auto 
 rifle is my fav". The charicters are mostly memrable and as the game goes on you even get a little 
 attached to some of you more fleashed out squad mates. friendly AI is good but not great. thay 
 are helpfull in fights and dont just stand in the way wich is a +
  
  A must have for any sci-fi fan or fps junkie. How ever dont expect any thing ground breaking. keep 
 your expectations realistic and youll have alot of fun with this game. But the sheer amount of 
 over hype this game reseaved will make that a daunting challenge. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Assault999
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 14, 2006 12:23 pm PT
Review:  the game is nice!! and the graphics it is amazing but the game it, s not very good realy but the 
 very good in the game it, s the graphics and the monsters and the story it, s good but in the end 
 of the story it, s very very very bad realy but the action is great and the men in the game they 
 was good guys but when you kill your boss it, s just like nothing hapend to him if you like DOOM 
 the game you well going to like this game too now go and buy this game before it, s too late just 
 kidding now see you next time see ya babe 
::::::

::::::
UserName: badgerman92
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 12, 2006 12:49 pm PT
Review:  Sound: a wide variety of sounds are in this game, uhh, not really, why is it everyone no matter 
 what is always "busy"?
  
  graphics: this game has great graphics, but low-quality is still too high-end. i dont like how 
 corpses disapear, because i cant' obliterate them with a rocket launcher
  
  gameplay: loading screens are far apart, which is enjoyable because they are really long. but only 
 10 weapons? are you joking? yea, id software never made a game with more than 10 weapons but still. 
 we need more wide selections like half-life. but with their huge maps, they should allow you to 
 do alot more on the ship. and easy is still too hard.
  
  value: about average, like, only rich people can have this
  
  So i have reviewed my 10th game! 
 pretty good for an account that was actually used once november started 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghsacidman
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 11, 2006 9:47 am PT
Review:  Quake 4 is a really good game. It has some really fresh ideas, and some old favorites from past 
 games, mixed to make a rich experience.
  
  Pros: One scene in perticular sold me on the game. **SPOILER** In the scene you are strapped down 
 to a table on a track, and are helpless to watch as others around you, and yourself, get your arms 
 and legs sawed off and replaced with machine parts. WICKED!!! I've never seen a game do something 
 like that and actually sell the point it's trying to get across. Besides that, the gameplay and 
 controls are that solid feel you'd come to expect from a Quake or a Doom game. The graphics, though 
 not the best, are still very good in their own right. The weapons are cool and have great animation 
 to them when you reload and when you fire. Though, some of the guns are rip offs HARDCORE (see 
 cons) . All and all, a solid title.
  
  Cons: Ok, my biggest gripe about this game and it's lesbian cousin Doom 3, is how much they rip 
 off Half Life. After the Doom 3 expansion had their version of the "gravity gun", I started paying 
 attention to the game it self. Really, some of the dialog and scenes feel ripped off to me. I dunno, 
 maybe it's just me. Oh, and also, the hover tank sucks. Besides that, thats it for cons.
  
  This is a solid FPS with solid controls. Some ideas are very unique, some feel very ripped off. 
 But in the end, it's a fun title anyone with a decent PC should try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sniperz89
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 11, 2006 5:36 am PT
Review:  for me, i give it at least more than 8.5 above and up. coz this game has the most advanced engine 
 using doom 3's graphic. plus the gameplay is so nice. its like ur teaming up with professional soldiers 
 in war. fighting ur old fren makron again tat guy from quake 2 is back for rampage. so its up to 
 u again to unleash ur powers but with a new soldier . and when u play thru the progress, u'll be 
 stroggiefied, but ur still the good ol guy rampaging. acquring boost power health. haha u'll frag 
 those enemies with dark matter gun! :) owh and the multiplayer is not bad either if u see from 
 two sides. the single play is not bad. preference for few players good and average depends on the 
 players. but i guess the game's guns/models are all updated into a newer quake. so this quake 4 
 rocks! recommened to buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DioXin_5
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 10, 2006 3:37 am PT
Review:  The dismal performance of Doom 3 (D3) left me (and thousands of gamers) extremely skeptical about 
 Quake 4 (Q4) . id had let us down by making D3 a mere medium to showcase their proprietary engine. 
 While the engine was visually impressive, the monotonous gameplay left gamers with a very unsatisfying 
 and mediocre experience. Hearing id pass on the reins for Q4 to Raven Software did make me heave 
 a sigh of relief, since Raven is known to make engaging games and has an extremely healthy track 
 record with Soldier of Fortune 1 and 2, Jedi Knight, Hexen II, Heretic II etc. With Q4, Raven has 
 managed to come up with a single player experience (unlike Quake 3 which was strictly multiplayer 
 oriented) that is true to the Quake universe and is extremely attractive looking, courtesy of the 
 D3 engine. 
  
  Q4 picks up from where QII left off by pitting you against the Strogg, a race of cybernetic freaks 
 that fuse human body parts with mechanical prosthetics and weaponry. At the end of Q2, you destroy 
 the Strogg leader, the Makron and take out their planetary defense cannon known as the Big Gun 
 hoping this will cripple the Strogg Empire once and for all. Underestimating the Strogg was a grave 
 mistake as they've managed to pick up the pieces and have reconstructed an even more powerful Makron 
 over the years. This is where your character, Matthew Kane comes in, a member of the elite Rhino 
 Squad whose task is to infiltrate the Strogg base and annihilate the barbaric race once and for 
 all. 
  
  All those who've played Soldier of Fortune know Raven is extremely adept at depicting scenes of 
 extreme violence and gore and the opening cut scene bears testament to that very fact. Throughout 
 the game, you will come across highly mutilated bodies, and when I say mutilated I mean legless 
 torsos with intestines hanging out, faces burnt beyond recognition exposing the grey matter beneath, 
 marines with their stomachs ripped open exposing the organs within - you get the drift right? This 
 game is violent, twisted and extremely graphic... just the way we like it. 
  
  First of all, I would like to take the time to thank God that the gameplay in Q4 doesn't resemble 
 D3's 90% of the time. Even though there are a few Doom-ish moments here where you'll find yourself 
 alone in the dark groping with your flashlight (which is thankfully attached to your weapon) waiting 
 for an enemy to pop up and tear you a new hole, most of the time you'll be engaging in hectic battles 
 with or without allies. Team AI is good enough with teammates ducking under crates and taking cover 
 to save their asses. Unfortunately at times they will block your path when you must retreat momentarily 
 to reload your weapon or avoid gun fire (something like the retards that passed off as your squad 
 in Half - Life 2) . Through out the game you'll come across medics and engineers who'll replenish 
 your health and armor. Even if you find yourself taking a lot of damage, stay behind your squad 
 till you find a health pack or so because they can sustain sufficient amount of damage, unless 
 they're destined to die in a scripted sequence. Enemy AI is acceptable with basic minions charging 
 towards you rolling and ducking to avoid your attacks at times. What these guys lack in brainpower, 
 they make up for in sheer numbers. An hour or two into the game and you'll come across a decent 
 variety among enemies and once the tougher ones emerge, the game play gets a bit frantic because 
 you'll have to use different weapons to get rid of different enemies. 
  
  Don't let this deter you because there are a plethora of weapons awaiting you in the game. Initially, 
 you'll have to get the job done with basic firepower like pistols, shotguns and sub-machine guns. 
 Before you can start whining about how underpowered your guns are, you'll get your grubby paws 
 on the real firepower that'll include a nail gun, the hyper blaster (weapon that fires blue plasma 
 balls at a high rate of fire) , a grenade launcher which is pretty weak, a rocket launcher that 
 no FPS can probably do without, a Rail gun, a lightening gun and a dark matter gun, which is basically 
 a distant relative of the BFG. Some of the weapons will be upgraded by your local engineer that'll 
 basically increase the rate of fire of the weapon or give it tracking capabilities. 
  If for some reason you find yourself getting bored of conventional weapons, you'll be able to slaughter 
 enemies using a Mech and a Tank (unfortunately you can't use them whenever you want to; both are 
 level based) . The Mech and Tank sequences are cool at first, but after navigating at least 100 
 areas that look more or less the same, monotony (any game's worst enemy) rears its ugly head. And 
 as if that wasn't bad enough, most of the vehicular situations play exactly the same. Enter a particular 
 area in Mech/Tank, shoot flying objects that drop turrets and then shoot turrets, run over a few 
 Strogg, proceed to the next area and repeat procedure. 
  
  Just when you think the game's slipping into the doldrums, and you start getting D3 flashbacks, 
 Raven throws a massive twist at you that has you becoming a Strogg. After being captured, you get 
 taken to the Strogg medical facility where you get Stroggified in a morbidly entertaining sequence, 
 with legs getting amputed and all. Just as the Stroggs are about to insert a chip into your brain; 
 that'll completely convert you, your team busts into the room saving you in the nick of time. Now 
 as half-man, half-Strogg you have an advantage over the Strogg as you can access various doors 
 and terminals that you couldn't as a human. Besides this, you'll also be able to move a bit faster 
 than your human counterpart and your health and shield bar increase from 100 to 125. That's pretty 
 lame considering the torture you went through to become one of them. Hey I don't get any special 
 powers, or cooler weapons but I can understand the Strogg language. Whoop-de-freaking-do! 
  Following the mentioned events you'll hook up with your team again only to be the only one left 
 alive. The game dips in and out of boredom as you navigate an endless amount of rooms and corridors 
 that look pretty similar except for a few ducts and vents. 
  
  Raven has spent quite a bit of time with the D3 engine and it shows as lighting, shadows, weapons, 
 environments, and character models look brilliant. Even though Q4 runs on a more polished version 
 of the D3 engine, it somehow worked better than D3 on my rig. Running this game on a AMD 64+ 3200, 
 ASUS K8V motherboard, Gainward 6600 GT and a gig of Kingston RAM, I was getting 50 FPS constantly 
 with all effects turned up to the max (except for AA, which I left at 4x) . 
  
  Q4's no slouch in the sound department as well, as Raven has hired a bunch of actors who can pull 
 of their parts convincingly. Weapons sound like... weapons, (except for the grenade launcher which 
 when fired sounds like someone's thrown a few tin cans on the floor.) This is an extremely good 
 thing since weapons are the highlights of any First Person Shooters and should pack a mean punch. 
 The metal-ish soundtrack of Q2 has been ditched for an orchestral theme which isn't bad, but (in 
 my humble opinion) metal some how suits the gothic and vile ambience Quake exudes. 
  
  In conclusion, Q4 like most games does have its share of strengths and weaknesses. If you're a 
 fan of the series you're definitely going to pick it up or have already finished it. If you're 
 new to the Quake franchise and are hesitant, pick it up if you like your games frantic, violent 
 and gory. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KD8587
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 9, 2006 11:34 pm PT
Review:  Quake 4 is a decent game but is lacking in some crucial areas. The shooting is too constant and 
 you'll be lucky to find a moment where you can take your finger off the trigger. Another problem 
 is that the multiplayer is really just Quake III Arena with better graphics and new weapons.
  
  It has got a good single-player campaign with enough to just keep you interested in the next 
 objective, but it's really just about the shooting. 
  Any FPS veteran's will finish this in a day or two maybe less if you want to last a little longer 
 play the game on the Lieutenant difficulty or higher.
  
  Other than that if your not a shooter fan then this is merely eye candy.
  If you are then you 
 may want to try the demo from this website before purchasing it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: NeonNinja
Rating: 5.5
Date: Aug 21, 2007 9:27 am PT
Review:  When you start a new game on Quake 4 for the first time, you think you got your money's worth, 
 when you see the dead soldiers all floating in space, amid a pile of wreckage. I must admit, I 
 felt quite happy with myself sitting their looking at the beautiful graphics. The first few missions 
 themselves are really intense and feel perfect, it's a shame the game cannot keep this up.
  
  Most people who have played the Quake games can tell you the three previous games had absolutely 
 nothing in common. The first was some guy shooting monsters, the second was a sci-fi war, the third 
 was a tournament game. Quake 4 can be considered as Quake 2 and 3 packaged into the same box. You 
 can take this figuratively or literally, it works in both cases.
  
  The first thing you notice about Quake 4 is the visuals, they are amazing and look beautiful, if 
 a bit similar to Doom 3 but that is to be expected since the game uses the Doom 3 engine. It all 
 looks really good, until you realize it is all put to waste. You will either be shooting the game's 
 brain dead enemies in grey corridors, with wonderful lighting effects I might add, or run around 
 on Mars, er, Stroggos shooting those same brain dead enemies. Seriously, the graphical potential 
 of this game was so great, and don't get me wrong, the game looks good, it's just that it's all 
 put to waste, the planet has no variety in where you fight, it's just indoors or outdoors, and 
 the art direction is very clich&eacute;. Regardless of where you are, the enemies in the game always 
 fight the same way; they stand there in the open and shoot you until they die. While killing these 
 guys you will notice how good the weapons sound, they really sound powerful and real, not like 
 the wimpy sounding weapons of other games. The voices are done well, but sometimes it is a bit 
 hard to hear what the characters are saying over a radio, or over your gunfire. The Strogg sound 
 decent as well; for a bunch of half-machine aliens that dont use any squad tactics or communicate 
 with each other in any way.
  
  The game plays very much like Doom 3, or perhaps a better comparison would be, the game plays almost 
 exactly like Quake 2, Quake 2 was an awesome game for its time, and when I boot it up to mess around 
 for a while, I think of how awesome a game it still is. I do not feel that way about Quake 4. The 
 game is a fairly standard shooter and we all played this game back in the 90's. Now Quake 4 introduces 
 something new to the series, vehicles. I hate them. When you're on the turret of the truck it feels 
 like an on-rails shooter, when you pilot the hovercraft, it feels like you're playing Halo on the 
 Xbox, I do not know why but it felt exactly like Halo but with worse controls, why should a PC 
 game that plays like a PC game for the most part try and feel like a console FPS during the vehicular 
 bits? The gameplay is not bad, but it isn't spectacular in this age of Halos, Doom's, Riddicks, 
 Half-Life's, Far Cry's and F. E. A. R.'s. Just to add a bit more criticism, the healing docks you 
 use as a Strogg are just like Half-life 2. I mean the vehicles even change your health bar so that 
 you have rechargeable shields, like Halo, wow original. Another new addition to Quake 4 is your 
 A. I. teammates. Running and gunning with these guys does make the whole war theme work out pretty 
 well, but these guys don't make the combat any more intense, unlike the A. I. partners in a game 
 like Call of Duty 2 that absolutely add to the intensity of the fire fights. One thing you will 
 notice is that your teammates can take a lot more hits than you, even when you are a super half 
 man Strogg.
  
  Speaking of becoming a Strogg, which is the worst kept plot twist in the world, it really doesn't 
 add to the gameplay at all, you have a maximum of 125 health instead of 100, and you run a little 
 faster than before. The only real new thing the change does is let you use the health stations 
 on the wall. Less dieing more shooting.
  
  The single player game is about twelve hours long, it took me about that long to beat it on hard 
 mode, they give it some military rank, but I think all of us know it goes from easy to very hard.
 
  
  The multiplayer is the best part, but is still uninspired since it plays exactly like Quake 3. 
 The same usual game modes, Deathmatch, Team Deathmatch, Capture the Flag and so on. No new crazy 
 fun modes that help enhance the game itself, just the same old stuff here. The enhanced visuals 
 are a big step over Quake 3 but it plays exactly the same. Another thing you will notice is that 
 the multiplayer games speed is insanely fast compared to the speed of the campaign mode. It feels 
 like two games in one, or two remakes in one. The online game will definitely extend the games 
 value if you still play Quake 3 and want an updated version of that great game, online could potentially 
 become big if the Quake 3 players choose to move on. Quake 4 does nothing wrong really, it just 
 doesn't do much right. The beautiful visuals are put to waste; the game plays exactly like its 
 predecessors, both online and offline. It really feels like two remakes of two old, but great games 
 sold as one package, except we really didn't need these now when they play exactly the same way 
 as the old games we still play today. All the new stuff added to the game is a first for the series, 
 but it doesn't help enhance the game in any at all.
  
  Had Quake 4 launched a few years ago, I would've thought better of it, but nowadays it just barely 
 makes the cut. It isn't a bad game, but it isn't great. The game is good, but very unoriginal and 
 uninspired. It steals from the best like Halo 1 and 2, Doom 3, Half-Life 2 and it does so shamelessly, 
 the game does not try to use any of its own ideas, just the ones used by the great ones. That may 
 be the reason why it didn't succeed, along with the brain dead A. I. and uninspired visuals/art 
 direction. Next time get it right Raven, or just let Id do it's own thing, this is pathetic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fenix1022
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 9, 2006 8:00 pm PT
Review:  If you are looking for something that represents the Quake series, this is the game for you. If 
 you want something that represents what most people look for in a first person shooter, then this 
 is the game for you. Just remember that it is a sequel in the series that is Quake, so you should 
 know what to expect.
  
  The single player mode is very exciting, but you may sometimes have trouble following the directions 
 of what to do next. The fighting can be intense, but it is what you look forward to in this game. 
 The weapons are very cool.
  
  The multiplayer is the underrated part of the game in my opinion. Many people are trashing the 
 fact that it is not really an improvement over the previous game and that it is simply the Quake 
 III engine redistributed. Well, there was nothing majorly wrong with it, so what is the big deal. 
 Just play and have fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ixR4NCID
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 9, 2006 3:54 pm PT
Review:  I had purchased Quake 4 with high expectations. I should have known better. I purchased Doom 3 
 with the same idea in mind.
  
  Yes, Quake 4 looks good, but I found myself rather bored about ten minutes in when a commander 
 sent me back the way I came to get a medic - the very one I talked to at the beginning of the game.
 
  
  Sigh.
  
  As will Doom 3, once the graphics wore off, the game itself was substandard. In fact, I haven't 
 even finished it. Not even in God mode using crappy weapons like I did with Doom 3.
  
  Multiplayer is cool, I must say. Quake 3 Arena with better graphics and physics. I was never a 
 big fan of vanilla mp though. I loved Quake 3 Excessive dearly and w0rM's Q4X mod brought out the 
 best of Q3 Excessive. Sadly, the servers are empty. Which brings me to my next rant about Quake 
 4:
  
  Support.
  
  1) There are no bots for mp. It sucks sitting in an empty server waiting for players to show up. 
 Raven could have added some AI to mess around with to kill the time.
  
  2) There is no auto downloading. WTF?
  
  So far there have been two patches. The first was 
 some lame additions tot he in game browser and the second added support for Intel Hyper Threading. 
 
  
  Uh-uh.
  
  Fix the real issues.
  
  This game would rock if Raven and, mores, id got off their collective asses and fixed it up a bit.
 
  
  So-so effort all around. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gsglint
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 9, 2006 11:31 am PT
Review:  Don't believe the hatahs. Overall, Quake 4 is an excellent 'classic' FPS single player campaign 
 with Quake3-style multi-player. Here the Doom graphics engine is put to very good use with fantastic, 
 spooky indoor levels. I found myself exploring & taking screen-shots of many of the environments. 
 To my surprise, the stunning sound design is probably the best facet of the game. The weapons (particularly 
 the machine-gun) provide you with some satisfying pop, and the explosions (with realistic effects 
 on your human hearing) are really immersive. Enemy AI is good, with the enemies themselves providing 
 the right amount of challenge & variety. Story-wise the campaign is essentially a re-telling of 
 the Quake 2 universe which borrows liberal amounts of atmosphere from Starship Troopers and the 
 Aliens series of films. An interesting plot twist and imaginative scripted sequences keep things 
 dramatically compelling.
  
  It's true there are some flaws with the game, the severity of which will personally vary. First 
 of all, Quake IV is a 'classic' FPS, meaning it plays very similar to previous id developed games. 
 That the plot borrows so much from Hollywood sci-fi films may annoy some. Also, there are indeed 
 vehicles sequences which, while providing a change of pace, progress unimaginatively and in a bare-bones 
 fashion. Finally, may will argue that the online death-match recycles too much from the previous 
 installment, (even some of the maps) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iXGHOSTRIDER
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 8, 2006 10:25 pm PT
Review:  I think not!
  I always have to play the single player first. 
  So I did. There were a couple of cool things, nice to see the nail gun, the graphics I thought 
 could have been better. My ATi card at the time hated the game and the game hated it.
  
  I thought the multiplayer was a disaster. Although again there are some cool maps old and new. 
 I guess either I was over hyped about the game or Raven and I. D. dropped the ball hugely.
  
  I can't be the only one that thinks this. 
  I go online to check it out and hope that there 
 is something out there that will bring it back to me, the game that I onced loved to play, but 
 so far there is nothing. 
  
  Although the closet thing that I have liked is w0rm's Q4Xcessive, but that is a given, but even 
 then, there are lots of servers, but with 0 - no people in them, and on occasion you come across 
 a couple in one.
  
  Very disappointing. I gave it a 7, but changed it to a 6. It could have been worse, and this is 
 because I have been huge Quake fan all these years, but if something doesn't happen soon, that 
 may change. I may even send the game back to Raven. =O!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kastanjekastere
Rating: 2
Date: Jan 8, 2006 2:48 pm PT
Review:  I am pissed of how could id mess up so bad this is not even a shadow of what it could have been 
 Good graphics is all well and good but that has nothing to do about the game.
  Lets start with the most thinnest story in the whole world too are some tough ass space marine 
 who is on his way to stroggos and take out the strogg wich is some kind off alien race made of 
 litter and leftovers you are soon on some of the shortest missions of gaming history it is practically 
 like this go left completed go forward ten steps completed and the ai is just rubbish they come 
 forward and doesnt even try to cover they just stand there and look pathetic.
  But then is the multiplayer wich for all i know could have been made of an 3 year old it is simple 
 enough just run and gun it goes like this 1 kill then you die and repeat that 100 times i asure 
 you that youare gonna throw your pc out of your house.
  some games are exellent some games are good and some games are bad but quake 4 is just rubbish.... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Quintapus
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 30, 2006 12:32 am PT
Review:  I was hoping for an all-out war with the Strogg. Instead it is just another run of the mill shooter. 
 Blah!
  
  Gameplay: Quake 4 is very similar to Doom 3 in many ways, such as the graphics, level design, and 
 sound. However, the gameplay is not. It's much faster paced and on a whole it's more fun. (8)
 
  
  Graphics: Great, but not any improvement over Doom 3 which is a year and a half older than quake. 
 (9)
  
  Sound: The sound is pretty good. (8)
  
  Value: With a short, linear singleplayer game and only a few multiplayer maps that don't offer 
 anything new, Q4 should have a budget-title price. (6)
  
  Tilt: Short, but sweet. (7)
  
  The Good: Some interesting and creepy levels along with some cool weapons, many of them from 
 Quake 3, make for some intense firefights.
  
  The Bad: No Flame Thrower. What's a shooter without a Flamer? Some of your enemies had them, so 
 why don't you? After all, you got other Strogg weapons. Q4 could use more outdoor levels and open-ended 
 gameplay. The vehicle sequences are too easy even on General difficulty.
  
  Bottom Line: Quake 4 is fun while it lasts. If you can get it cheap it's worth picking up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zornth
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 7, 2006 4:02 am PT
Review:  Just too be fair in comparision I also got the 360 version... DONT BUY THAT. Stick to the PC.
 
  Now the single player is great it is alot like doom 3 except 10 times better.
  With fast past action and great weapons with OKAY (even though repttive) mission objectives shooting 
 things havent been this fun sence half life 2. 
  Its fun I didnt want to stop playing it when I first started it. Even though the ending was'nt 
 great. I deffentitly dont want a crappy movie made out of it I'm looking at you Andrzej Bartkowiak.
 
  
  I only played the multiplayer 3 times I couldnt find a server that had more then 3 people.
  
 
  Great game loved it beat it 9 times better then doom three and the best pc graphics.... EVER (I 
 have F. E. A. R and half life 2) IF YOU HAVE A GOOD COMPUTER WHAT ARE YOU WAITING FOR BUY THIS. 
 
  If you have a 360 PASS 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wyatt456
Rating: 4
Date: Jan 6, 2006 2:29 pm PT
Review:  I wish I had done more research before buying this one. Unfortunately I didn't and so have paid 
 the price with a dull game that fails to hold my interest mainly because it's been done before 
 and done better. The lighting in the game is usually dark and so you don't get much of an opportunity 
 to even appreciate the graphics even though most of the scenery looks like it has been painted 
 on the screen. As for game play, it's pretty linear requiring the player only to follow the left 
 and right turns dictated by the game firing when necessary. If I could turn back time I would save 
 my money and get something else and I doubt I will get much for it when I trade it in. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jackazz17
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 5, 2006 12:32 pm PT
Review:  Multiplayer, like GS's review, is just uninspired. Same thing, should have added something fresh. 
 Single player is alright, but gets repetitive, plus the ending boss is a little disapointing, the 
 boss before him is a lot cooler. Also, as far as the story goes, it's kind of lame. My main complaint 
 with the story is that throughout the entire game, you really do feel just like "clean-up." It 
 takes away greatly from the excitement of the game. In Quake 2, you were a lone marine that was 
 the last stand to get rid of the Strogg, and in this installment, you feel really expendable the 
 whole time, it never feels like the Strogg ever have the true upper hand. Maybe they should have 
 added something like another Big Gun by the Strogg or something. Or I would have preferred almost 
 a retelling of the first one?
  
  Graphically this game is awesome. Looks and runs stable on all detail levels. The Strogg and all 
 of their bio-engineered freaks look outright hideous and bloodthirsty and some enemies might get 
 a little bit of a jump on you, but mostly you'll be able to "see it coming." Even then, it starts 
 out pretty fun, but again, as said earlier, it does get kind of repetitive. The sounds in this 
 game are very satisfying. The machine gun stands out in my mind, it feels and sounds like a machine 
 gun should. Though not the most powerful weapon (and actually a little weaker than what it DOES 
 sound) , you really feel like it it's tearing into the Strogg. More on the weapons, most are pretty 
 satisfying, but nothing extraordinary.
  
  So if you are a fan of the Quake series, then you'll probably enjoy this game, despite it's lame 
 story. Otherwise, there's probably not much for you here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TIE_Elite_Pilot
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 4, 2006 6:49 pm PT
Review:  Ahhh Quake 4, the long awaited next chapter in the battle against the Strogg. This game picks up 
 nicely from were (either 2 or 3, cant remember) left off, with you on the forefront of the human 
 invasion of Stroggos, now that their leader has been killed. While the single player will keep 
 you engaged for many, once that's done, theres not much to turn to, as this games multiplayer is 
 severly lacking.
  
  Quake 4's single player will keep you occupied for a good 10-15 plus hours. The the singleplayer 
 is MUCH MUCH better than ID's last game, DOOM 3. There's no monster closets, so break yourself 
 of that fear of grabbing the shiney new gun, or the health pack. You wont get ambushed and wind 
 up with less health than you started with this time around. My only major gripe with single player 
 is the games AI, to be nice, the bots are plain stupid. Not ONCE have they tried to flank me, or 
 used any advanced tactical maneuvers on me (which i expected from a race of computer controlled 
 aliens) . The Strogg not only like alot like the Borg from Star Trek, they fight like them too. 
 Either standing still, running straight at you, and occasionally throwing in the hop from side 
 to side. No real challenge there. And Multiplayer is a clone of the rapid action in Quake 3, but 
 prettier, yet it seems rather stale now.
  
  The graphics for this game are incredible, and the eerie and very gory "Stroggification" sequence 
 will prolly lower your jaw. The Enviroments are beutiful, the character models superb, and the 
 blood splatters plentiful.
  
  Sounds are as wonderful as the graphics. From the roar of a Strogg Nailgun to the ch-ch BOOM!! 
 of a shotgun. The voice-overs are excellent as well, and the subtle moans of people being stroggified 
 and growls of strogg make everything all the better.
  
  The single player is well worth the cost of this game, but afterwards, you may want to grab that 
 copy of Counter-Strike for Multi-player, because chances are you will be left, somewhat disapointed 
 with this games MP.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: halofreak3487
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 3, 2006 3:27 pm PT
Review:  The graphics were out standing you don't need a 6800 to play this game but something a bit then 
 a 5700. very sharp and detailed quality i saw better then Doom 3. Sound was awesome the characters 
 all had different voices they all showed expression, but they always have machine guns nothing 
 else XD. and this game had the same problem as F. E. A. R. did to short you didn't defeat the strogg 
 (if you don't want me to ruin the ending for you then please don't read on.) all you did was destroy 
 the communication tower nothing big, all i hope is that they have an expansion pack coming out. 
 I havn't tried the multi-player out yet but from what i heard it wasn't all that great. I would 
 recommend F. E. A. R., Battlefield 2/Special Forces, Unreal Tournament, SWAT 4, or Call of Duty 2 
 and other games over Quake 4 because it's no going to last a long time.
  
  BUT! if you have no other game to get and you're looking for a fun game like Doom 3 pick up Quake 
 4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eddie_24
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 3, 2006 9:06 am PT
Review:  Quake 4 is the best shooter game i've ever played... it has a great story, great graphics, great 
 sound, and lots of hard killing enemies. I can't belive this game is so good. Although the multiplayer 
 mode is too similar to quake 3, the 1 player mode it's amazing, you get really into the story, 
 and i loved the part that you become a strogg. It's not as scarier as doom 3 is, but it's more 
 fun, harder and larger (I think it's the largest game i've played) and i didn't get bored in any 
 part of it, i couldn't stop playing it. The graphics and sound are amazing, they make you think 
 that you are really there. The weapons are really great too, and it has the flashlight inluded 
 in 2 of them, and you don't have to be swithing from weapon to flashlight all the time like in 
 doom 3. The enemies are amazing too, there's a high variety of them, and almost all of them are 
 hard to kill. 
  
  I really recomend this game, if you haven't tried it, do so. Quake 4 rulz! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dr4goNPL
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 2, 2006 10:09 am PT
Review:  Quake 4 is a sequel to the bestseller in FPS genre - Quake. Quake 4 takes the story after successful 
 end of first human invasion to Stroggos - homeworld of Stroggs - aggressive and terrifying alien 
 race which wants only one thing: annihilation of humans. You are corporal Matthew Kane - soldier 
 fighting with Strogg in Rhino Squad - most elite squad in human army. All the squads have one objective: 
 kill the new Makron - Master of Stroggs. As you're going through the alien installations, their 
 anger grows. Finally, Makron catches you and makes you one of them. Apparently your squad mates 
 are rescuing you from Makron's midst. Now, let's talk about multiplayer in the hottest Quake. It's 
 the best multiplayer in Quake series. It mixes fast and action-paced MP from Quake 3 with a fresh 
 look at the old MP modes. There are 5 gametypes: classic Deathmatch, Team Deathmatch, fresh-looking 
 Tourney, CTF and Arena CTF (CTF with power-ups) . The most controversial type is Tourney. Map is 
 divided into 1-2 arenas. There are 1 1v1 match on each arena. During that time players on second 
 arena are playing same match. Tourney is divided into 4 rounds. 1/8 finals, quarter finals, semi 
 finals and final match. That's all about Tourney. The rest is classic. Summing up, a great position 
 you must play! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killer-hawk
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 1, 2006 6:14 pm PT
Review:  I like this game for it's co-operation in single player and the graphics, which almost match up 
 to the graphics of my favorite....... Doom 3.
  
  Then again of course the graphics between the two are going to be closely related due to the fact 
 that Doom 3 was created on the quake engine.
  
  Anyways, the game has some parts in it were you will sort of jump-up due to something jumping out 
 at you, and the co-op between the player and the ai players is very enjoyable.
  
  Overall, this game is very enjoyable. But if they would have made the graphics even better the 
 game would get a 10 from me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andrew_ribbons
Rating: 6.6
Date: Jan 1, 2006 4:46 pm PT
Review:  But the Multiplayer is disasterous. The vehicles are about as dynamic as a lump of cheese, and 
 the gameplay reminds me of Plastic, cheap!
  
  Although the Single-player is great for Horror FPS lovers, the Multiplayer could bore anyone out 
 of mind and skull. There's about as much innovation in it as there is in a Honda Civic, none!
 
  
  The graphics and physics are what really make this game stand out. With blood and gore gallor, 
 this game will appease any Game-warped Geek dying to get hold of a yet more violent and bloodthirsty 
 killing game.
  
  To summarise, get it if you see it cheap, but not for the awsome multiplayer that all the Quake4 
 predecessors had to offer, its a real shame! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: satch919
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 1, 2006 11:15 am PT
Review:  Before this game came out, I was keeping a close eye on it. Having seen the E3 demo, I was convinced 
 that this was going to be an excellent game. From what I had seen, it looked like a faithful revival 
 of the series. 
  
  However, once it was released, it was met with mixed results. I figured it was another game crushed 
 by it's own hype. So, with all these different reviews, I decided to hold off on getting it. That 
 was until I started seeing brief reviews from regular gamers and not by website editors and critics. 
 The FPS fans liked it and said that it had tons of action and was better than they had expected. 
 
  
  With these thoughts in my head, I decided to head on over to EB Games and pick up a copy. When 
 I finally got around to playing it, I was pleasantly surprised. It was, in my opinion, better than 
 some of the critics had made it out to be. 
  
  From the opening scene, you're thrust into the violent universe that Quake is set in. Mangled corpses 
 tumble and drift amongst what used to be one of their ships. Exposed brains and bloodied intestines 
 glisten in the light to show off the higher detail in the slightly modified DOOM III engine. From 
 this point on, the action hardly slows down and the body count keeps rising. 
  
  vWhat would Quake be without it's brutal weaponry? Some of the destructive tools at your disposal 
 include an automatic rifle with scope, a beefy shotgun, a nail gun, and the infamous rail gun. 
 Each one of these guns make having a surround sound system worth having. Thumps, clicks, and metal 
 noises all ring out with clarity and punch. 
  
  One thing that this game introduces that the previous insallations haven't is the use of NPCs that 
 help you out. While you can't issue them orders, it's still nice to have someone helping you out 
 or to use as a human shield. This adds to the immersion in that it makes it slightly more believable 
 instead of being a one man army the whole way through. 
  
  While there is plenty of other positive stuff to talk about, it really wouldn't be fair if I failed 
 to mention the negative aspects as well. One thing that I didn't really care for was the use of 
 vehicles in the outdoors. Most, if not all, of the vehicular levels kind of ran on rails and didn't 
 allow for too much diversity. Some of the tank battles with the stider like Strogg vehicles were 
 fun but the rest was rather bland. 
  
  There's more to discuss but what would be about knowing everything about the game before playing 
 it. You'll have to discover the rest on your own. In the end though, it's a solid package. The 
 vehicular combat could have been improved but those shortcomings are forgotten when battling the 
 Strogg on foot and in tight corridors. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stinkyfarts333
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 30, 2005 9:46 am PT
Review:  This game is nice for ID fans and Quake fans. It's got the graphics and the multiplayer but just 
 like Halo, it lacks some qualities that keep it away from sheer perfection. The story is very nice 
 as well. u get stroggified towards the middle and then you can walk faster, jump higher and do 
 all that stuff. It's like Doom 3. After Hell, things start to get challenging and you face bigger 
 and badder monsters more often. It is also like Star Wars Republic Commando, because your last 
 mission is called LAST STRIKE in which go up against at least 5-7 spider droids and at least 2-3 
 grevious' guards. All in all it's a great game that first person shooter fans should definitely 
 love. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brubru722
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 29, 2005 8:29 pm PT
Review:  Quake 4 is one of the best shooters / adventure games in a long time. Me as a counter strike lover, 
 noticed this astonishing game when it came out. I gave it a try and i was hooked. I never logged 
 off my computer for many days. I eventually gave it a little break. Coul'nt stop. Like trying 2 
 quit smoking. Impossible to put down. The best game i've evr bought in a long, long, time. Hope 
 you take this information and use it for your own entertainment. 
  
  Not only is quake 4 amazing, it is quite challenging. If you are look ing for a real challenging 
 and fun filled game, you deffidently found the rite one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alucard7321
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 29, 2005 4:12 pm PT
Review:  YAY! Well yea thats about it.
  
  Lets get down to the basics of this game:
  
  Very good controls, easy to use, the guns are fun and simple to use. Graphically its a nice piece 
 of eye candy while you run through the game blowing the crap out of stroggs with whatever big gun 
 you can find. 
  
  AI is pretty retarded as usual. I say as usual since MOST shoot-em up games are pretty much like 
 this... but then again you only have to take one look at a Strogg so see what your dealing with 
 ;) Big retards in mechanical suits... or small ones :0P
  
  Surprisingly the voice acting and movie sequences were very good in this game. The stroggification 
 process however was very very non existant, and the features you get later from it were rubbish 
 i felt.
  
  However, as I do play alot of games and am not easily phased by violence and gore (or at all) , i 
 do have to say that this game is EXTREMELY violent later on. Never seen such a realistic representation 
 of mashed up guts and bile with body parts before in my life! So... thats a little warning to the 
 kids out there ;)
  
  Multi player wise, well... i couldn't connect to it properly due to bad frame rate problems i got, 
 but it seems all pretty basic map wise, but then again dont fix something that doesn't need fixing, 
 so im kind of happy they left the original tye of multiplayer in.
  
  Summary: Movie-like, fun in some places, amazing graphics, stupid AI, stupid looking enemies ;) , 
 very violent (so thats good for some and not for some) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamerPlayer914
Rating: 7.3
Date: Dec 28, 2005 4:10 pm PT
Review:  Doom 3 clumsily attempted to inject some kind of narrative into the game. This resulted in the 
 player having to read or listen to lengthy, repetitive monologues. Theres something strange going 
 on, so heres the code to the nearest storage locker.
  
  Quake 4 has a story, but it makes no pretense to its importance. You are a space marine on a mission 
 to bring down the vile Strogg on their homeworld. The Strogg, of course, are the bad guys from 
 Quake 2. Theyre kind of like space zombies, and they have some inexplicable desire to use human 
 torsos as living parts in their computers and machinery. Hey, it aint Tolstoy, but it is incentive 
 enough to grab the nearest gun and start blasting.
  
  Buddy System
  
  Instead of sifting through logs and data files to get glimpses of narrative, there are AI soldiers 
 to tell you what to do, and occasionally accompany you on your missions. This is all pulled off 
 in a very believable manner. The AI soldiers are competent fighters who usually wont blindly enter 
 a room and get shot down. Theres even incentive to keep them alive. Medics and tech experts are 
 able to fully heal your health and armor as long as theyre not currently getting shot at. There 
 are plenty of times in the game when youll be going it alone, but the mix of squad-based and solo 
 action is a nice change of pace.
  
  No Monster Closets
  
  The action itself is different enough from Doom 3 to be worth mentioning. Unlike the minions from 
 hell, Strogg forces dont appear to have the ability teleport behind you every 30 seconds or so. 
 Nor do they regularly jump out from behind secret doors that magically open up when you enter a 
 room. Well ok, the door thing does happen a few times in the game, but not nearly as much as in 
 Doom 3.
  
  What you get instead are some pretty good firefights and a sustained level of action that will 
 keep you interested throughout the entire game. Enemies will duck behind cover and peek around 
 corners to take potshots at you. Its not as good as the excellent tactical AI in F. E. A. R., but 
 the Strogg arent exactly pushovers, either.
  
  Parts is Parts
  
  Quake 4 isnt about creeping you out like Doom 3-- its much more interested in grossing you out. 
 The environments in the game are tragically similar to Doom 3. So much so that there are times 
 when you feel like youre merely playing an expansion pack. However, the further along you get 
 the more vile and disgusting the environments become. The Strogg appear to have some kind of fetish 
 for dismembered body parts. You find humans in varying states of disassembly hanging from just 
 about every imaginable location, and you eventually get partially Strogg'ed yourself.
  
  Strogg like Me
  
  Its a tremendous missed opportunity for the game. Once Stroggified (not 
 completely, mind you -- youre still working for the good guys) , you would expect to inherit some 
 special abilities. But aside from a small boost in health and armor, youre the same old space 
 marine, only a whole lot uglier. As the game progresses youll collect the usual suspects in terms 
 of weapons, and youll have plenty of opportunities to put them to good use. There are also a few 
 vehicles and rail-shooter levels to spice things up.
  
  Quake 4: Arena
  
  All told, the single-play stuff is simple, dumb fun. And its hard to ask for anything more in 
 a Quake game. Multiplayer is a vast improvement over the horror show that was Doom 3. It mimics 
 the frenetic style of play last seen in Quake 3: Arena, so that should make a lot of old timers 
 happy. The speed of the multiplayer game is a testament to the power of the Doom 3 engine. The 
 game looks amazing and works very well on systems that are less than state of the art. Its a shame 
 they didnt opt for more elaborate multiplayer modes, but what it does, it does well.
  
  4.0 on the Richter Scale
  
  Its all cool to bag on a game for not innovating and Quake 4 doesnt 
 do anything particularly daring. But honestly, when you pick up a game like this, youre probably 
 expecting a very specific experience. Quake 4 delivers fast, brutal shooting action, and it looks 
 good doing it. Sometimes, thats all thats necessary.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: VMAN-Vercetti
Rating: 6.2
Date: Dec 28, 2005 6:58 am PT
Review:  Some time ago, when I've heard of Quake 4's release I was absolutely stunned, but after buying 
 the game and seeing how it is, I think Quake 4 is nothing more than a total modification of Doom 
 3.
  Basically it uses the same engine and same gameplay as Doom 3. I'm not saying that id has created 
 something useless, but I think that Quake 4 should've earned some innovation from it's producers.
 
  
  The graphics are breath-taking indeed, the sound is very well made, especially when using a surround 
 system and the storyline seems pretty elegant.
  
  Apart from the 3D modelling, the textures look like improved versions of those in the Doom 3 SDK. 
 I think the producers inspired themselves as much as they could from Doom 3.
  
  Quake 4 probably must've earned a bonus score because of it's reputation. Hell, don't get discouraged 
 and having second thoughts about buying the game.
  
  If you liked Doom 3, you'll definitely like Quake 4 too. The only thing that's missing in Quake 
 4 is the eternal fright that Doom gave you.
  
  My opinion is that classics should remain classics. Right now i love Quake better than Quake 4, 
 Doom better than Doom 3 and so on... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chrisdragon
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 27, 2005 12:08 pm PT
Review:  The sequel for Quake 2 is here and it hits rather hard, using a modified version of the DOOM3 engine 
 which handles framerate better indoors, and most surprising, outdoors! The game runs solidly on 
 my AMD 2100+, 1GB RAM and Radeon 9800 Pro 128MB with almost no/zero framerate issues.
  
  Graphicswise, I really dig the amount of detail Raven Software have put into the architecture of 
 the maps, the models of marines/strogg/weapons/etc as well as the skins and textures for the game. 
 I had almost everything maxed out at 800x600 but I'm sure it won't hamper me at 1024x768.
  
  The gameplay is rather easy to go through, with basic shoot 'em up with teaming up with other 
 marines to complete mission objectives. There are parts you end up going alone for extended periods 
 of time. I find the weapons are balanced enough to match up with the Strogg you encounter frequently 
 through the game.
  
  The voiceovers for the marines have been done pretty well, as most sound effects including the 
 strogg as well.
  
  To wrap it up, the game has a good storyline to follow through on the planet the player (Matthew 
 Kane) and his fellow squadmates and other groups of marines. The game on a first time could take 
 up to 12 hours too so it should provide entertainment for some time, and the multiplayer should 
 do just as well. If you have a nice system, you will get a great experience playing Quake 4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Destroy_USA
Rating: 2.4
Date: Dec 26, 2005 1:36 pm PT
Review:  let tell every one about this game i play quake 2 too much better than quake 4 is like a doom 3 
 quake 3 story mode is too boring mp players is like a UT what games is that quake 4 useless to 
 play i say where is a quake 4 where is a quake 4 where is a quake 4 where is a quake 4 where is 
 a quake 4 where is a quake 4 where is a quake 4 where is a quake 4 where is a quake 4 where is 
 a quake 4 where is a quake 4 where is a quake 4 where is a quake 4 where is a quake 4 where is 
 a quake 4 where is a quake 4 where is a quake 4 where is a quake 4 where is a quake 4 where is 
 a quake 4 where is a quake 4where is a quake 4 where is a quake 4 where is a quake 4 where is a 
 quake 4 where is a quake 4 where is a quake 4 where is a quake 4 where is a quake 4 where is a 
 quake 4 where is a quake 4 where is a quake 4 where is a quake 4 where is a quake 4 where is a 
 quake 4 where is a quake 4 where is a quake 4 where is a quake 4 where is a quake 4 where is a 
 quake 4 where is a quake 4 where is a quake 4 where is a quake 4 where is a quake 4 where is a 
 quake 4 FOREVER 
::::::

::::::
UserName: angel_gabriel
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 24, 2005 11:40 pm PT
Review:  Awesome game i loved it from begging to end well some parts got me mad the only probably with it 
 is i would've loved it if it a peeking move or something like yeah peek around corners or something 
 that wouldve been great multiplayer is good but get a sense of once too many ppl play on one server 
 it gets or starts to lag a lot...... love the tourney mode and death match the bosses are a real 
 challenge so to speak and getting play as a strogg was awesome speed upgraded, armor, health. the 
 squad base thing was awesome too having guys help u in a fight or cure u filling ur health and 
 armor up to a full ready to battle mode. the only problem they die too quickly if u dont protect 
 them well thats my review hope u like feel free to write to me about anymore questions or comments 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SadExchange
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 24, 2005 7:59 am PT
Review:  The Quake series has seemed to stand the test of time over the past three games and Quake IV is 
 no exception. Rather than Id Software taking the lead role on this game, they took a backseat to 
 Raven Software, which in the end, was a good choice. Releasing in the month of October on the 18th 
 of 2005, Quake IV had a lot to compete with this year with the likes of FEAR and Battlefield 2, 
 but surprisingly enough, it shines on its own. Taking the better aspects from each of the previous 
 installments in the series, Quake IV releases with both a great single player campaign and a decent 
 multiplayer component.
  
  The Quake series has always been on the leading edge of graphics with each title releasing on a 
 brand new gaming engine, but unlike those, Quake IV was actually developed on a modded Doom 3 engine. 
 Differently from Doom 3 and its expansion though, the player will be able to traverse in outdoor 
 levels instead of just crawling his way through the same dark corridors. Yes, there is a lot of 
 darkness in Quake IV, but its not there for the scare-factor as it was in Doom 3. Somehow, even 
 with the amount of shadows in the game, the level design was just done right and the shadows give 
 a great sense of atmosphere throughout the game. There is some back tracking throughout the game, 
 but not enough to deter you from progressing through the campaign. New to the Doom 3 engine also 
 is the use of vehicles. Within the many levels of Quake IV, youll be able to hop into tanks and 
 a mech type walker that is fun to blow stuff up with. Although youre only in both vehicles for 
 a short amount of time compared to the length of the campaign, those levels are a nice breath of 
 air from traveling in the dark corridors and expansive outside so much. There are some in-game 
 cutscenes within the game which help you proceed with the story and it seems that more and more 
 games, because of the great graphical engines are doing cutscenes this way because of the great 
 graphics they already have in-game. Each and every character looks great in-game and there are 
 many details on both the squad members and the levels themselves.
  
  Quake, throughout the last few games, has been known to have both a good single player and a great 
 multiplayer, but never really together. What I mean by that is that Quake II had an awesome single 
 player campaign that spanned across two expansions while Quake III had some of the best multiplayer 
 that any computer game has ever seen. Usually those who bask in the online multiplayer games can 
 either recall many stories from either the Quake series or the Unreal Tournament series. But this 
 time around, Raven Software brought the best of both worlds. Quake IV has a great lengthy single 
 player campaign that takes you, Matthew Kane, a member of the Rhino Squad, across the planet Stroggos 
 as continue the story that ended off with the second expansion to Quake II. Throughout the single 
 player missions that will progress you through the stories, youll find different members of either 
 your squad or other squads raising hell against the Strogg that will fight alongside of you and 
 unlike most squad based games, these guys actually seem to hit their target more often than not 
 which adds to the realism. Youll fight through differently designed levels, both inside and out 
 while you try to overtake the Strogg invasion. And that is truly only half of the game, where the 
 other half consists of the multiplayer component.
  
  Realizing that Id Software had such a great thing going with Quake III and its multiplayer, Raven 
 Software also duplicated that exact same feeling for Quake IV. But differently than you would first 
 expect. What I mean is that Raven Software recreated a lot of the multiplayer levels from Quake 
 III and released them for Quake IV, and these levels make up a good amount of the multiplayer maps 
 offered initially. At first thought and play through, this may seem great, but with a new title 
 in the series, fans are expecting just a little bit more from developers nowadays. A little more 
 creative sense in the multiplayer map section would have been appreciated, but with a mod tool, 
 multiplayer maps will be rolling out of the woodwork in no time. Even though the game runs on the 
 Doom 3 engine, its been modded enough to allow 16 players a game instead of only Doom 3s 4, which 
 is a nice bonus considering multiplayer is fun with more people every time.
  
  Along the lines of any Quake games, youll be sure to find some great weapons and Quake IV has 
 to be one of the best. Of course, like most shooters, youll have a pistol, machine gun, rocket 
 launcher, grenade launcher, and also a rail gun which definitely comes in handy later on in the 
 levels when dealing with deadlier foes. But a great feature to these weapons is the addition of 
 upgrades that youll receive from the different marines that fight alongside. Pretty soon, some 
 of the more simpler weapons will be your most trusted allies. One particularly nice upgrade is 
 the addition of the homing ability to the rail gun. When zoomed in, youre able to hone in on your 
 enemies and make each shot count which is great because there never is enough ammo right? 
  
  The sound within Quake IV was also done nicely with the voice acting playing quite a role in 
 the game. With both the in-game cinematics and the times where youre surrounded by your own Rhino 
 Squad members, these times tend to shine in the game. And of course, the background music must 
 play somewhat of a role in a first person shooter and Quake IV delivers. Like its fast-paced action, 
 the music follows along and youll find yourself firing shot after shot even when the enemies 
 bodies have all hit the floor because of the intense music.
  
  Overall, if youre looking for a lengthy single player campaign unlike the first person shooters 
 of late, then Quake IV is a good choice, because not only does it have loads of enemies to kill, 
 but it also has a decent enough story to persuade you to progress throughout the entire game. With 
 the new added vehicles and weapon upgrades, plus the good multiplayer component which is a direct 
 representation of Quake III, but with better graphics, Quake IV is a sure fire game for anyone 
 in a first person shooter draught.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tails123
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 23, 2005 9:04 pm PT
Review:  The Quake series has always been at the penacle of game design and development, and with Quake 
 4 this really shows. 
  
  Gameplay :10
  One of Quake's most important strong points is in the gameplay department. The fast-paced action 
 is great for a newcommer to the FPS genre and the most experianced player. The multiplayer is very 
 similar to Quake 3's amazing multiplayer. Many people are complaining about how similar it is but 
 i say if it ain't broke don't fix it.
  
  Graphics: 9
  I gave Quake 4 a 9 in graphics because I do not have the best graphics card in the world to see 
 Quake 4's at it's full resolution. But even with my Radeon 9200 it was still mind blowing even 
 with the graphical detail and textures set on low. Nuf said.
  
  Sound: 8
  Quake gets a 8 for sound because most of the time the sound generated from some of the effects 
 and the speech of other charachter is often blurred by weapon sound effects and large explosions 
 that constantly occur. What makes up for this is the asthonishing sound effects of the weapons 
 and explosions. When I picked up Quake 4 I was really expecting to hear cheasy diolauge and a bad 
 story line as most of us have come to expect from most action shooters. I was acctualy suprised 
 to hear the good voice acting from the characters.
  
  Value: 10
  Not only is Quake 4 a great single player expireance that lasts for a long but it also has the 
 classic Quake 3 multiplayer that will have you hooked. 
  
  All in all Quake 4 is an excellent first person shooter and worth the purchase if you have the 
 steep system requirments. I definately recomend this to anyone looking to have a good action FPS 
 expericance. And on that note I would like to congraduate id on a job well done once again and 
 also proving that the Doom 3 engine can be more than just a slow paced darkened experiance.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gnoel809
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 23, 2005 8:22 am PT
Review:  I never played Quake 3, since multiplayer-only games don't interest me that much. I had enjoyed 
 the original Quake and Quake 2, so I thought I'd give Quake 4 a try. It was great. Like I said, 
 it's kind of retro (level-exits rather than seamless transitions) , but the state-of-the-art graphics 
 make up for it. 
  
  The vehicle / mech / train sections were a fun change of pace (without going on for too long) . 
 
  
  It would have been a much better game if you didn't know ahead of time that you were going to get 
 Strogged. The cutscenes (literally) were well done and pretty graphic.
  
  All in all, a great game (okay, id, let's start on Quake 5) . I'm sure there will be an expansion 
 pack to help us pass the time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Braxen
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 22, 2005 11:05 am PT
Review:  Didnt have extremely high expectations when I bought this game used online. The singleplayer campaign 
 started off pretty slow, but really grew on you after a while. Its pretty linear and doesnt allow 
 many spontaneous adventures, but is fun and challenging. Doesnt give you the feeling of freedom 
 that for example Far Cry does.
  
  Graphics: Top notch. Extremely clever use of bumpmapping keeps the polygonal count down. Some of 
 the best textures Ive ever seen. Light fx are awesome. Overall among the best graphics Ive ever 
 seen.
  
  Sounds: A bit too much treble in some of the weapons, especially when using headphones. Good sounds 
 and great voiceovers by Peter Stormare, among others. Could have more 5.1/surround effects.
  
  Gameplay: Much more fun than Doom3. More enemies plus that the weapons pack far more punch.
 
  
  Overall: Nice both singleplayer and multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GautamIyer
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 21, 2005 6:09 pm PT
Review:  When questioning the linearity and basic gameplay in the likes of Doom 3 and previous Quake games, 
 one has to really wonder what makes these games special to begin with. Well with Quake 4, not only 
 do the pros outweigh the cons but the game itself transcends the whole linear based gameplay as 
 a whole. 
  
  Although the game is very linear, the AI is simply great. What with all the added improvements, 
 Quake 4 is certainly in competition for one of the top 5 games of the year. The sound and physics 
 engine were used to full capacity and made full use of its potential. 
  
  There are a lot of similarities between Quake 4 and Doom 3, especially when it comes to introducing 
 new monsters; level designs and such; however, the differences create another dimension of improvements 
 over Doom 3. 
  
  My only other Qualm with the game was despite all its intentions, it was a fairly easy game. I 
 played it on the second hardest setting and it still wasn't much of a challenge. That being said, 
 I really liked it a lot and I think most people will agree that for what it is, it's really good. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cigarcat
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 21, 2005 2:32 pm PT
Review:  This game is basically Doom 3 with different monsters and weapons. Quake 4 does an extraordinary 
 job of adding variety to the action. There are two vehicle segments that are surprisingly entertaining. 
 over the course of the game, there are about 20 or more different types of aliens to vaporize with 
 the 10 different guns, each with a different feel and strategy to use. The graphics are great. 
 The sound is good overall. Gun effects are especially satisfying. The single player story was solid 
 and simple and the multi-player is a blast if you have a good connection. That's the good news. 
 What I didn't like were the long briefing levels with no killing action and some of the lines seemed 
 cheesy. Also the game doesn't exactly give you the epic halo or half-life story telling you might 
 be looking for. If your an FPS fan your sure to enjoy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: emirgulum
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 21, 2005 10:37 am PT
Review:  I think doom3 technology depicted best in quake4. Best game with graphic of 2005. If we compare 
 with fear, quake 4 provides us most update effects with no prequests like (sm 3.0 or sm2.0a) When 
 we look at the doom 3 engine and quake 4 we can easily see the genious programmers behind that 
 engine. It has almost no bugs like doom 3 and the edges seem very smooth without aa.
  
  The gameplay is very entertaining. Game always provides you outstanding action and does not bore 
 you. Sounds are great.
  
  Finally raven made an outstanding game. Quake 4 was made to be a deserving game for id software 
 by raven. 
  
   QUAKE 
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: J0nGalt
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 20, 2005 11:46 am PT
Review:  A good FPS game needs to have a storyline. Or else your just playing an arcade style blister maker, 
 with teh only inention: take yoru quarters.
  
  This game has the story. And teh graphics to back it up. 
  
  this time, instead of lettig teh 
 strogg own us we move in and hit them where it hurts, invading thier planet. With space scenes 
 and another crash landing. From teh beggining your graphics card is overheating and the game never 
 relents, unless your a **** and turn down the system.
  
  The story progresses nicely and makes for a good time. The gameplay is just like any other intelligent 
 FPS with intuitive (and player determinable) key settings. And teh choice of weapons is large but 
 simple to understand. 
  
  They have HUGE creatures you have to battle and mechs & tanks you need to drive to complete missions. 
 You make friends and watch them convert them (and you) into stroggs themselves (strogg = maniac 
 borg) .
  
  If you liek FPS games with a storyline and a sequel coming, PLAY THIS GAME. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xXrebel666Xx
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 7, 2006 10:19 pm PT
Review:  One word pretty much describes his game: incredible.
  Im not just one of those people that play one game and call it the bestgame ever made, iv'e played 
 them all, nothing nears the brilliance of this game.
  
  Unfortuanately in F. E. A. Rs case i bought it on the same day as quake 4. Played Q4 about 6 hours 
 straight then kept dying so decided to give F. E. A. R a shot. However no more then 30 mins later 
 Quake 4 was back in the rom.
  
  F. E. A. R great game but to repetitive and in all aspects Quake 4 obliviates it.
  
  I must congragulate 
 the people at Raven you people are complete freaks. I have no idea how anyone could ever imagine 
 those settings and bring to life in such a spectacular way.
  You are the most creative people for sure.
  
  Its so real i forget its only a game half the 
 time and think i'm actually in the game, sounds stupid but its downright true for q4.
  
  This game is a MUST for anyone who enjoys gaming and make sure you own this game before F. E. A. R, 
 you will not regret it one bit 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctordro
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 19, 2005 11:23 am PT
Review:  Some people may doubt the capability of this game because it still very much relies on the Doom 
 3 Engine. But let me cut to chase and tell you that it is even better than Doom 3! It's linear 
 and predictable, but the awesome action surpasses its faults. Well yeah, you'll get commanded here 
 and there, flick the switch, open the hangar, blah blah blah... but that is where the fun comes 
 from. You will get satisfaction from successfully completing objectives, believe me. And you will 
 not want to stop once started, Trips to the bathroom will be less frequent. And of course, who 
 could resist the breath-taking beautiful graphics? Currently, you will never see something this 
 good (I believe some will prefer the Monolith FEAR engine.) . Yes, it's pretty easy especially for 
 experienced FPS players. I myself finished it in 2 1/2 days probably in about 10-11 hours. But 
 nevertheless, It was definitely worth my time. Things I didn't like about it? The enemies words 
 are repetitive... The music was uninspired... That's just about it. The ending just gave a hint 
 that it will be releasing an expansion pack anytime soon! Can't wait for it! Buy this one guys... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SZeroC
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 18, 2005 1:13 pm PT
Review:  owered by the DOOM III engine and developed by the Kings of the FPS - id Software, Raven's Quake 
 4 assails local retailers in time for the Xbox 360 launch. Boasting next-gen lighting effects, 
 robust anti-aliasing, and Dolby Surround sound, Quake 4 provides the audio and visual power for 
 Hi-Def run-and-gun gore galore.
  
  Humanity is in peril as cyborg aliens (known as The Strogg) continue to clean sweep the universe 
 in search of organic body parts to build more Strogg. Putting faith in 'the best defense is an 
 aggressive offense,' Earth's military leaders mobilize an intergalactic assault on the Strogg home 
 world to end their menace once and for all. As Matthew Kane, member of the elite Rhino Squad of 
 Space Marines, your objective is to storm the Strogg fortifications, secure a landing site for 
 a second wave, and annihilate the Makron (the Strogg leader) . Following a decisive victory, the 
 remaining Strogg captures Kane and begins their slice and splice Stroggification procedures. But 
 before a mind control chip is embedded in Kane's cranium, Rhino Squad raids the facility and retrieves 
 their mutilated comrade. Armed with the enemy's weapons but retaining your human mind, you are 
 Earth's only hope for survival.
  
  Though a verbatim port of the PC title (released earlier this year) , Quake 4 adapts gracefully 
 to its 360 iteration with fluid and intuitive controls. Aiming, reloading, switching weapons, and 
 crouching for cover respond to the speed of your instinct. The enemy AI is by no means brilliant, 
 nor do they possess any strategic thinking, but what they lack in brains they make up for with 
 aggressive brawn and sneak attacks.
  
  Taking the FPS away from horror, Quake 4 puts more emphasis on military style maneuvering. Kane 
 is often flanked by fellow Marines who are autonomous in their actions (breaking the current trend 
 of every game having some level of squad-based controls) . Keeping your comrades alive prevents 
 them from being used against you later in the game (every human that falls eventually becomes a 
 Strogg) . Life and armor are replenished by standing near your teammates and they will provide cover 
 for you as you angle for a better shot.
  
  The Strogg are hardcore, grotesque machinations of malice. They don't feel pain and will not go 
 down easily. The game offers a versatile array of weapons that will be very familiar to anyone 
 who played the preceding Quake games. Armed with a pistol, assault rifle, shotgun, grenade launcher, 
 rail gun, nail gun, rocket launcher, hyperblaster, and a lightening gun, players can dispatch their 
 foes with whatever firepower that suits their murderous sensibilities.
  
  Lacking the major innovations expected from a next-generation title, Quake 4 is nonetheless a solid 
 first-person shooter, brimming with blood, riddled with bullets, and heavy with atmosphere. Up 
 to 8 players can frag and brag over the Internet, but there is no option for local co-operative 
 or tete a tete play (unless somebody else ponies up for another console and you link systems via 
 LAN) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thapsyborg
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 18, 2005 11:44 am PT
Review:  Single Player:
  The story is simple but effective, an epic battle between humans and aliens on their turf. Unlike 
 Doom3 and FEAR there is some variety in the gameplay, Inside corridor crawling woven perfectly 
 with outside war fighting woven perfectly into non cutscene marine story points with a few vehicles (driving/riding) , 
 turret gunning and mech levels thrown in the mix. And especially unlike FEAR there is tons of variety 
 in the environments and enemies every area and monster are unique masterpieces bringing back the 
 feel of quake 2.
  
  Multiplayer:
  If u liked Quake3 arena youll love this basically a graphical update of that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Narasil
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 18, 2005 9:12 am PT
Review:  Quake 4 is a great game. The storyline is...
  You just defeated the Strog leader and now, scince the strog are weak (i think) you have to "kick 
 while they are down."
  The graphics of this game are amazing. The shadows and facial expressions are just phenomenal. 
 That was probably the best part of the game.
  The gameplay is really fun. You get a bunch of sweet weapons and you cant just go running and blasting 
 away. The game forces you to take cover at times and stuff like that. 
  The sound was pretty good... thats all i have to say about it.
  I didnt like the online play 
 AT ALL. It was way to fast, and didnt require you to use any strategy or anything. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tompouce
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 16, 2005 6:37 pm PT
Review:  In general
  
  with there new option of Campaign, thats making this game so powerfull and cool :) . This game is 
 better than Unreal Tournement and Championship. Its have such a lot of good detail. The gameplay 
 is very hard because its fast and its not hard to be kill. 
  
  The enemies
  
  This is the kind of enemy that we find in Doom 3 but with more mind lol ! ! The are not stupid 
 HuH! They are beind a door and they are waiting for you to kill. Your friend in this game ( your 
 partner ) are more resistant than you and its not good because when they shoot you they never stop 
 ( but you can't kill them ) .
  
  The weapons
  
  Is the bigger weapon the most powerfull? no. They are all big and they are hard to use. The most 
 powerfull for me is the chainsaw that you have in your and. In multiplayer its only take one second 
 to kill :) . But the most hard to use is the sniper because you cant use it without scoop. And the 
 big one is the nuke ( nuclear ) .
  
  Level
  
  Its not easy and its not hard but its just in the middle with those enemy sometime un beatteble 
 and some time to small and to easy lol. And some time the level are not engouht long and some time 
 to short. With your friend sometime stupid and sometime unbeatteble
  
  Any-way its a very good game and I give i'm a value of 9/10 for the sound, 9.8/10 for the graphic, 
 and for the gameplay 8.8/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: narg6
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 15, 2005 11:41 am PT
Review:  The game is surprisingly good. First I thought it'll be a waste of time like Doom 3 was, but I 
 was wrong. This is a nice revert to Quake roots. What we get is:
  dynamic action, great enemy design, nice climate, interesting weapons, so everything what Q1 and 
 Q2 had :) Plus it has beautiful graphics.
  This game (imo) has only three disadvantages: it's too short, the storyline is a bit too predictable 
 and where the hell is our good old NiN and Sonic Mayhem?... That's for SP.
  MP is a different thing :)
  I definitely recommend it to all Quake lovers and fast paced FPS 
 fans. It's really worth the price! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kudos2000
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 14, 2005 2:26 am PT
Review:  Very like Doom 3 in the fact that the engine is the same. Graphics still have that unrealistic 
 look but the environmental effects give you a dark and alone feeling. The textures let the engine 
 down hugely, if its not brown or grey its pink and red. 
  
  The sounds add a lot to the game and nice features like vehicles and finally a flash light on a 
 weapon (only the one) give some nice touches and stops some of the boredom.
  
  The game play is also very repetitive, with continually shooting of monsters, not massive amounts 
 of story line and very limited puzzle solving. Although this is what a lot of FPS's are.
  
  This game is one of those where its up to you if you want to play it or not, I would not go out 
 my way to play it. 
  
  Once again GL Quake is still the original and the best of the quake series to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nrautava
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 13, 2005 11:03 pm PT
Review:  If you are FPS player like me, you realy want this game.
  But know this: If you have played games like Doom3, F. E. A. R. and Area 51 you have already play 
 this game.
  Only new thing is that this game have story (and it is not bad like in foom3...)
  
  Story:
 
  So you are Matthew Kane, who is the new guy in Rhino Squad.
  You have a job to do: Win the war against enemy forces.
  But do not worry. You will do one mission 
 at time and there will be actions...
  
  Weapons:
  Well... in start you will have some standart gun but then you will found many cool weapon and they 
 are powerful also... (have fun)
  
  Team members:
  You will fight with some other marines at various points in the game. (hint: keep them alive)
 
  What I see they fight much better than you would expect from AI.
  (and they seem to take a lot more damage than you)
  Other marines are flagged as engineers or 
 medics, who will repair your armor or heal you what is nice.
  
  Overall:
  All how like FPS games will want to have this game :)
  
  My Score 9.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GizmoSimo
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 13, 2005 10:29 pm PT
Review:  Quake IV is the best in the series , including deadlier arsenals of weapons and an even deadlier 
 amount of enemies , all different and beautifully detailed ,
  
  Quake IV uses the Doom 3 graphics engine , but this game ain't no jump around the corner scare 
 game , this is more action than anything , you'll get pumped with adrenaline as you walk through 
 stroggos , and the game will take a sudden spin , so marvelously done that i can't believe you 
 are sitting there reading this review instead of playing it or trying a demo.
  
  I think its wrong to rate Quake for its multiplayer when the single player campaign its the one 
 thing that should keep us all playing this . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: james-lee85
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 13, 2005 9:47 pm PT
Review:  Now when I played the first Quake I was blown away by the graphics game play and gore, then I played 
 the second Quake and was blown away by the graphics and game play, then I played Quake 3 Arena, 
 and well I wasnt so impressed. Now that quake 4 has been released and I have played it (about 
 a month ago) , I am amazed again at the graphics the game play and the GORE !!! with extra exclamation 
 marks because thats how freaky it was.
  
  The opening cut scene, well it has been a long time since I have seen a game engine do that, HL 
 2 didnt do that well (not that it was a bad game) . Well enough about the engine, Doom 3 has been 
 out for a while now. 
  
  Game play has been pushed forward; however linear it is it still is fun to play and the feel of 
 the game puts you right there invading the Strogg home planet. I look forward to the upcoming Quakewars, 
 if it is anywhere near as good as this has been so far than I shall be the first to purchase it 
 and complain about how crap my PC is at running it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Voodoo2k3
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 13, 2005 4:26 pm PT
Review:  The revolutionary Quake franchise has reinvented the shooter genre, first person adventure, online 
 multiplayer in only three games. So what's left for the fourth game? Nothing. And that's what it 
 delivers: nothing new. While Quake 4 is one of the best looking games of the year it looks and 
 feels more like a Doom 3 expansion pack than a stand alone game and it's rewashed run-and-gun gameplay 
 make it less than memorable.
  
  Someone must have made a critical error when labelling Quake 4 and Doom 3 and mixed them up because 
 Quake 4's run and gun fast paced action is the kind of intensity that was expected from Doom and 
 Doom 3's creepy atmosphere in a space facility is along the lines of a Quake 2 sequel which this 
 game is. Quake 4 is the game that Doom 3 was expected to be, and now that I've seen it, I'm glad 
 Doom 3 is the way it is, because Quake has no atmosphere what-so-ever which truly takes away from 
 the intensity.
  
  Taking place shortly after the events of Quake 2, Quake 4 returns to the single-player focused 
 gameplay that the genre originally had. You are a lone marine who is battling the evil alien race 
 known as the Strogg who are more grotesque than hell's demons. You are not the same marine as Quake 
 2, but rather a marine who is often accompanied by squads so you always feel comfortable in hostile 
 situations, knowing AI is covering your butt. The big selling point of the game is that you "become" 
 a Strogg during the game. Using the cliched sequel storyline of "if you can't beat them, join them" 
 which could have worked incredibly well, if Raven Software had a brain in their heads. The Strogg 
 concept works on paper, but in the game it's just comes across as a "meh" event. You'd imagine 
 that you'd get all kinds of cool abilities, but no. Nothing really happens, your HUD changes and 
 I think you move slightly faster, that's about it besides looking totally bad ass.
  
  The gameplay tries to throw all new features that have never been seen before in Quake like team 
 combat and vehicles. Yeah, because it's not like they aren't in every other first person shooter. 
 While the older Quakes took current fads in the genre and made them ten times better, Quake 4 takes 
 them down a level. The squad A. I. is pretty good, I never found them do anything too stupid. Your 
 squad is decent at covering you and taking out enemies when your too low on ammo or health to do 
 so yourself. The mechanics are far too simplistic though, as you can't control them besides getting 
 medics or engineers to heal you.
  
  The vehicles are the worst part of the game. The robots that you operate are weak and inefficient. 
 I often feel like I could do more damage on the ground than in the machine, or atleast take less 
 of it. The tanks in the game are quick but nimble. Their armor is decent but under heavy fire they 
 burst apart easily. Too easily. The machine gun and rocket launcher fire options are pretty interesting, 
 oh wait, they're not, because that's the same as every other tank from every other game. There 
 are also a bunch of rail missions, and well, you all know how much fun rail missions are. If you 
 don't, they aren't fun, especially in Quake 4.
  
  Now that's not to say it isn't all fun. The rest of the game consists of run through any door marked 
 green (which means open) until you reach the end and have to go back to the red door (which means 
 not open) and wait for it to open, or activate it in some way. It's more straight forward than 
 Doom 3 which so many complained about. The guns are pretty much all lackluster. I was particularly 
 offended by the Nailgun which has no accuracy, is too bulky and irritating even with enhancements. 
 The guns you aquire later in the game are more interesting and satisfying, though most of the weapons 
 are under-powered and ugly looking and sounding.
  
  Besides the weapon dissatisfaction, the game is pretty fun. There are some very cool scripted sequences 
 with some ugly baddies and the Strogg are pretty fun to chew up with bullets. They aren't remarkably 
 smart but do run for cover. Nothing memorable mind you. The bigger baddies don't care about cover, 
 they only care about ramming you twenty feet backwards and dealing major damage, luckily their 
 tactics can be overcome with a steady stream of bullets from pretty much any weapon. The later 
 enemies become more interesting and unpredictable, but like their friends, their patterns aren't 
 difficult to pick up, making it incredibly easy to demolish an entire room of enemies single-handedly, 
 given you have enough ammo.
  
  The game is using the Doom 3 engine which still looks great, but doesn't have the same wow factor 
 as Doom did last year because it's all been seen before. The metallic facilities look almost exactly 
 the same as the Doom ones, the lighting is the same, plenty of darkness but none as dark as the 
 majority of Doom. The computer monitors that have a movable cursor from Doom are back and so is 
 most of the style from that game. Quake 4 feels like a clone game of Doom 3 making it less outstanding 
 and memorable by itself. There are more outdoor environments which look great and run surprisingly 
 smoothly except they are backed by incredibly unimpressive 2-D skybox backgrounds. That is so 1998.
 
  
  The sound effects in the game are pretty well rounded. There is good music, but nothing that stays 
 with you or is fierce enough to get your heart pumping but it does the job. Monsters all have signature 
 sounds which can be scary and nasty at the same time. The guns all have signature noises, most 
 of the earlier guns sound underpowered (nothing like Doom's pea-shooter weapons) but the Hyperblaster, 
 Rail Gun, Nail Gun in particular sound great. Voices are all pretty good and main characters have 
 distinctive voices so you can usually tell who's talking to you over the radio if they don't say 
 their name or if you forget in the heat of battle.
  
  The games multiplayer is quite amazingly smooth considering the graphics should be slowing the 
 game down but rarely do. The multiplayer menu lacks some filters making scanning through servers 
 a pain in the butt with endless servers of empty and full players. The multiplayer is basically 
 the best of Quake 2 and 3, so the levels are familar but fun and supplied with Quake 4 weaponry. 
 So, if you are interested in this for the multiplayer you may want to rethink your purchase because 
 you are basically paying MORE for Quake 3 with worse weapons. It's pretty lame to be honest and 
 like Doom, it's clear 99% of the concentration was in the single-player which isn't a bad thing 
 but the multiplayer is so underwhelming it's not really worth playing more than once or twice.
 
  
  With an average length in the single-player and not even note-worthy multiplayer, Quake 4 is officially 
 the worst Quake in the series, it was debatable which was the worst before, but now it's for certain. 
 The game is fun, yes, but not very replayable. It's recommended you pick this up for cheap rather 
 than paying full price just because after the initial 10 hours of single player, you'll have no 
 reason to keep Quake 4 on your hard drive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fatality4u
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 13, 2005 4:21 pm PT
Review:  Quake 4 is a first person shooter that is above and beyond so many others that are around it. The 
 action that ensues is intense and very fast. Creating possibly the best first person shooter of 
 the year is a hard task to accomplish and Activision may have done it. Quake 4 takes all the criticisms 
 from Quake 3 and the area style multiplayer game that it was and throws them out the window. Instead 
 of building another primary multiplayer style game Activision decides to go back to the basics 
 and continues the storyline of Quake 2.
  
  You will start off the game as Matthew Kane, a member of the Uber Rhino Squad going down onto the 
 Strogg home world, just as the storyline of Quake 2 has finished up, where a lone marine has turned 
 off the orbital defense and has killed the Makron making your life so much easier. You are the 
 quiet and silent type and new guy of the group, but all of your fellow squad members decided to 
 talk it up for you. You make a hard landing after your ship is hit and you have to meet up with 
 the rest of your squad to clear the vicinity allowing your capital ship to touchdown and provide 
 support. Once your capital ship touches down you are provided a new mission, that requires you 
 to delve deeper into enemy lines and eventually come to the twist in the story that most likely 
 has been heard by everyone, but I wont repeat it and possibly ruin the little, although be it 
 not very essential, twist.
  
  The multiplayer in the game is not something that you look at and go, wow I am so glad this has 
 multiplayer. If you look at the multiplayer as a whole, you pretty much have Quake 3, just in Quake 
 4. So if you are looking for a whole new multiplayer experience, dont buy Quake 4 for just the 
 multiplayer.
  
  The AI in the game is surprisingly response. For the most part your fellow squad members will be 
 some what helpful. Even if they do not hit the enemy with fire, they will at least distract the 
 enemy enough to be able to get bullets flying towards them. The AI enemies are not very smart in 
 the beginning, but as you get further into the game and start to go against tougher enemies, you 
 will come across the Stroggified marines, who will work together and take cover, pop out and shoot 
 you, and then retreat to cover. The introduction of the Stroggified marines makes you play a little 
 bit differently and makes you use your weapons more wisely instead of just making yourself open 
 to fire, because if you do they will cut you down. The only part about the AI that is fairly disappointing 
 is the enemies in the game. They are easy to beat as long as you use your cover.
  
  The weapons in the game albeit unique are somewhat of a disappointment. You will eventually get 
 ten weapons in total that are all unique. Even though there are ten weapons in total, you will 
 find yourself only using the machine gun, shotgun, and grenade launcher. The only reason to use 
 lightning gun and BFG is during boss fights, and so long as you dont use them otherwise, you will 
 have plenty of ammo to take out the boss with ease.
  
  The gameplay of the game is the biggest strong point of any first person shooter and Quake 4 does 
 not disappoint. The action is fast and intense, and you will find yourself taking a break to reload 
 any chance that you get because you know that you are going to need as much as ammo as you can 
 because you never know what you are going to need to hit the enemy on the other side. The only 
 part of the gameplay that gets repetitive is the enemies. You will soon find that there are certain 
 weapons that take down the enemy with ease and will most likely find yourself having the shotgun 
 at ready when walking into any area, because the shotgun will more than likely be the best weapon 
 to take down the enemy. Ammo is never in short supply, which is nice for a first person shooter, 
 not always having to hunt around for every last bit of ammo needed. The armor that is found is 
 dispersed enough that you will always find it as a welcome site.
  
  The graphics in the game are most certainly the best part of the game. Each one of the Strogg are 
 unique and you will find yourself in awe looking at them as they are trying to kill you. The environment 
 is also nice to see very unique areas that you would expect to see on an alien home world. The 
 nice touch that is probably the most overlooked is the effect of the Strogg seemingly disintegration 
 after being killed. This is a bonus that is shown the player in two different ways. First it is 
 cool to see your enemy disintegrate before you eyes and wonder where they have gone. The other 
 bonus is that the game frees up memory that would have been caught up in the holding of the enemy 
 corpses on the ground.
  
  The sound of the game is what you would expect from a game like this, unique. Each of the weapons 
 sounds as you might expect it for an alien weapon that you will never hold yourself. It is fun 
 to listen to all of the funny remarks that your squad members will fire off, especially about the 
 bets that have you unknowingly involved in. The music that plays does seem to fit in with the rest 
 of the atmosphere and build upon it. The only downside of it is that sometimes you will get transmissions 
 in the middle of an intense firefight and you will not really get to hear what they said. It is 
 not like the transmissions are really that important, but it would be nice to be able to hear it 
 if they are going to bother say it.
  
  The value of the game is pretty good in general, especially if you are a Quake multiplayer addict. 
 Since the multiplayer is loosely that of Quake 3 any fan of the Quake 3 multiplayer will find this 
 a nice change and fun new aspect with different weapons. If you are going to play this game only 
 for the single player it may be worth trying to get in with another friend and but it together, 
 because the single player will only really last you about 15 hours max. If you are a Quake fan 
 in general this will be a nice addition to any collection. Bottom line is, if you have the money 
 Quake 4 is certainly something that is worth taking a look at. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johndempsey
Rating: 4.5
Date: Dec 13, 2005 1:00 pm PT
Review:  Basically shoot anything that moves, no real twists and turns. Graphics are average and i thought 
 everyone was over pure blast the stuffing out of anthing that moves. Old theme, please can we move 
 on. Doom, Quake and all the rest of that old genre should now make way for the Half Life 2, Fear 
 where there is a skill and finish to a game. Slow Mo in Fear and the gravity gun in HL2 are superb. 
 Only buy this if you love run and shoot no thought necessary games. Really poor game in an old 
 and tired genre. More thought, problem solving and giant gun battles with bullet time and slow 
 motion. 
  
  Old hat please think of something new. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mercenary138
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 13, 2005 11:14 am PT
Review:  Since the begining of the summer, I heard about Quake 4. I wasn't too interested with it a first 
 because of how the Quake series had different stories (I was a big fan of Quake II and always wished 
 there would be a sequal of it that had team A. I.) . When I found out it was the sequel of Quake 
 II, that made me really want to play it. Although I have played the demo, that was enough to convince 
 me it was a good game. The story picks up where Quake II ended. While on a drop ship, it gets shot 
 down and as usual, and you are among the few survivors. Then you must fight your way to clear the 
 enemy Strogg stronghold for the main marine assault to occur with the help of other marines. This 
 time, your not fighting alone. I do plan to buy the game in the future, hopefully for Christmas. 
 This game is based on the Doom 3 engine and makes good use of it. The only thing I have against 
 it is the relatively slow frame rate to certain computers (like mine for example) . Other then that, 
 the game is a perfect sequel and a must buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cs_killer_man
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 12, 2005 6:30 pm PT
Review:  Wow this game is really good and a must buy for the die-hard shooter fan or if you just want the 
 old school multiplayer. The story is kinda cool the characters are all cool the graphics are brutally 
 good and the game is very very very bloody I wouldnt recoment it if you have a weak stomach cause 
 this game is very very blood esspecially during stroggifcation (that was so cool) . The squadbased 
 gameplay makes the game even more fun because your teamates are actually fighting next to you instead 
 of just standing in your line of fire, instead they shoot with you with deadly accurisy, I just 
 wish they had a co-op mission that would have been awesome. This game is perfect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mortel3
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 11, 2005 1:26 am PT
Review:  Brilliant. This game, as you know, uses the DOOM3 engine, and really, DOOM3 pales in comparison 
 to the awe-inspiring, envelope-pushing FPS that is Quake4. The story picks up from Quake2, as any 
 fan of the series knows, Quake 3: Arena was simply multiplayer based. You are crash landed on Stroggos, 
 the Strogg home planet, and there you are sent with your squad to infiltrate their strongholds, 
 etc. whilst fighting off an array of mutated beasts. All the while driving tanks, walkers and even 
 BECOMING the Strogg, this all makes for a clearly superior FPS compared to the likes of DOOM3. 
 Bravo 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wgeddes
Rating: 6.7
Date: Dec 9, 2005 6:16 pm PT
Review:  This game plays through without so much as a surprise or interesting plot twist. The AI isn't incredibly 
 bright, the story isn't incredibly engaging, and the gameplay isn't incredibly refreshing. It feels 
 like Doom 3, only faster, with the same old "Enter room, kill everything ,enter room, kill everything". 
 Bosses are lackluster and puzzles aren't puzzling. The only thing that makes the badguys difficult 
 is how quickly they run at you. And where are the awesome weapons? I used the shotgun pretty much 
 the entire game, since the exploding weapons end up doing more damage to your character than to 
 your enemies once they start running at you. The enemy designs are fairly imaginitive, I admit, 
 and the graphics make them look great, but there just aren't enough of them. Many of them just 
 seem like Doom3 ripoffs anyway. I'd like to see this game engine get used for some kind of involved 
 FPS game, instead of a run and gun. You're better off getting Doom 3 cheap out of the bargain bin, 
 because at least that game is scary. Furthermore, the multiplayer is just pretty-Quake 3, which 
 is outdated to say the least. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: prisoner747
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 9, 2005 5:29 pm PT
Review:  When Quake came out all those years ago, it defined the First Person Shooter genre. It was revolutionary 
 and addictive, and at the time the graphics kept you coming back for more.
  Then Quake 2 blew us away with it's 3D graphics and gripping single player. It continued in the 
 tradition of Quake with it's top of the line multiplayer and large community.
  Quake 3 came out to mixed reactions. There was no actual single player to speak of but instead 
 in gave us a bot and online supported full mutiplayer game that competed direct with games such 
 as Unreal Tournament.
  
  And now, after years of waiting, the new chapter in the Quake series has been released.
  Quake 
 4.
  The minute you step into the game you are surrounded by non stop action. Joined by your marines 
 you storm the Strogg facility in an attempt the shut down the Nexud and kill the Strogg leader.
 
  This all takes place merely hours after the events of Quake 2 and you'll even hear references 
 to that lone marine you played as when you picked up your old copy. 
  The game combines powerful, original weapons with disturbing enemies and of course, the games twist 
 that I won't ruin for those of you who haven't seen it...
  The gameplay aside, Quake 4 borrowed something from Doom 3 other than the engine. The bad sound 
 effects...
  Most of the weapons, unfortunately, sound wimpy and weak and the Strogg make stupid and annoying 
 groaning noises that sound like they are giving birth...
  But the fact is that I can live with that merely for how addictive the whole game is. 
  The single 
 player will keep you coming back for more and the multiplayer, (no matter what anyone else says) 
 is fast paced and incredibly fun with a small group of friends.
  
  No matter if you're a new-comer to gaming or if you worship a bible with a large "Q" on the front, 
 Quake 4 will be worth your money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: martin1990000
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 9, 2005 7:47 am PT
Review:  i think this is an exiting game and a really god fps game with great history
  and cool weapons and fairly smart enemies
  
  i have tried DOOM 3 and i think it was really 
 boring it was a bit spooky but almost the same all the time .but in Quake 4 there was a lot of 
 variation and it was a pritty long game too...
  
  do not read:
  now it is o n e h u n d r e d words words words words words words words words words words words 
 words words words words words words words words words words words words words words words words 
 words words wordswords words words words words words words words words words words words words 
 words words words words words words words words wordswords words words words words words words 
 words words words words words words words words words words words words words words wordswords 
 words words words words words words words words words words words words words words words words 
 words words words words wordswords words words words words words words words words words words 
 words words words words words words words words words words wordswords words words words words 
 words words words words words words words words words words words words words words words words 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gunman357
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 7, 2005 11:57 am PT
Review:  Quake 4 is a very, very addictive game. Although it uses the Doom 3 engine, it dos'nt quite reach 
 the level or length of Doom 3. I beat it three days after I got it . But putting aside the length 
 of the game, it is a pretty good game. For gameplay like any other shoot em' up game, it manages 
 to get around. Personally, I like the voiceovers, with me there nice and crisp, just like they should 
 be. Multiplayer reminds me of Quake 3 arena due to the arena like gameplay. When I started playing, 
 I just could'nt stop!!!!! If you plan on getting this game I reccomend it!!!!!! You won't regret 
 it!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arterg
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 7, 2005 10:15 am PT
Review:  Not quite as good as FEAR but considerably better than Doom 3 , Quake 4 reminded me why I got into 
 first person shooters in the first place.
  
  The graphics are rich, in an environment that is full of live action, with a much brighter light 
 setting making it feel much larger than Doom 3 which was far to dark for my liking.
  
  Sound is OK, I would have preferred more use of EAX but no complaints
  
  Game play is classic, 
 its you V the Strogg head to head. If you like a fast pace this game certainly obliges. The use 
 of a NPC Medic & Technician that heal health or armor is an excellent addition to the game that 
 has transended from multiplayer games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yab_007
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 6, 2005 7:11 am PT
Review:  Quake 4 is simply fabulous. From the many games I have seen this one is just coooool I think 
 that quake 4 must be placed higher in the game rankings. However there is a problem with the game. 
 The single player is cool and it allows for a campaign. The only problem is that the graphics has 
 been made too complex that with an ordinary 3d card it wont get a max of frames per second, so 
 the game is somewhat slow and most quake players know the advantage of high fps. I personally have 
 a GeForce Fx 5200 with 128mb ddr memory and I get about 12-19 fps and the fps is not that stable. 
 However if you have the new ATI Radeon x1800 then the game will rock. The game will be just smooth 
 and it would be great to play it. I guess that its time to change our old 3d cards and take those 
 new ones. I prefer the ATI Radeon x1800 but its just that this damn thing is quite expensive for 
 the moment. Quake 4 has a somewhat similar multiplayer as Quake 3 arena but even though the game 
 rocks. Hope that you all will appreciate this game and put it to use on online gaming I 
 highly recommend this game. Even if you have never played quake thats not a problem, its 
 easy to learn and I guess its too simple to know how to play it. Once you have been trained, you 
 can always check with other online players to verify your skills
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Killerjoe17
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 6, 2005 5:03 am PT
Review:  
  Three and a half years ago, id Software shook QuakeCon 2001 with its announcement of Quake 4. While 
 few details were released then, the mere mention of the highly anticipated sequel, developed with 
 Raven Software and built upon the (then unfinished) Doom 3 engine was enough to send gamers into 
 a frenzy. However, aside from a lone concept sketch of a Strogg warrior, information about the 
 game has been extremely sparse.
  
  That is, until recently, when we attended a voice over session in Los Angeles at Salami Studios, 
 a postproduction house specializing in voice and music recording. We overheard a large amount of 
 the plot recorded by a number of talented actors. Although we can't reveal any of the details, 
 we are able to disclose the name of the main character, Matthew Kane, and a squad mate of his named 
 Rhodes (voiced by Dave Earnest) . We also observed seasoned character actor Charles Napier deliver 
 a performance as General Harper.
  
  A veteran of movies (like the Austin Powers series) , TV and games (he was prominently featured 
 in SpyCraft) , Napier is no stranger to the voice over booth. "I provided grunts for The Incredible 
 Hulk TV show, and I've lent my voice to cartoons like The Simpsons and Johnny Quest, so this isn't 
 new to me." What was newer to Napier was the script, which he'd only received shortly before his 
 voice over performance. However, he felt relatively comfortable settling into the skin of General 
 Harper, primarily due to his past roles.
  
  "I've been typecast in the past few years as a commanding type of voice or character, whether it's 
 been on camera or off, regardless of whether it's comedy or drama. I love doing comedy; in fact 
 I've got a film out now with a lot of broad comedy like Austin Powers. But I've generally been 
 cast as a military type in a commanding situation, and that's generally the character I portray 
 in games -- it's a commander, it's an officer, it's a superior giving out orders."
  
  While that may seem conducive to cookie cutter performances, Napier doesn't feel constrained in 
 the slightest by this facet of casting. In fact, he believes it to be much more of an asset, especially 
 when it comes to creating characters. "I look at the words the writer put down, and I try to listen 
 to the writer and the director. That way, when I go into the booth, I can try to give them the 
 character they imagine in their mind as I read the lines they've provided. Hopefully they can close 
 their eyes, listen to my voice and picture the character saying the words exactly the way I've 
 done it. I try to give them what they want, because they wrote it and they're directing it. That's 
 generally what I do."
  
  Supervising the key performances for Quake 4 was Tim Willits, the Lead Designer at id Software. 
 Although we were sworn to secrecy on the plot points we'd heard during the voice over sessions, 
 we were fortunate to squeeze a little time out of his busy schedule to get some new details on 
 the direct sequel to 1997's Quake II. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thornpaw
Rating: 7.9
Date: Dec 5, 2005 10:14 am PT
Review:  The graphics were great and some of the levels were very well done, but some were just too short 
 and easy to get through. Also, on some I had to stumble around until I figure out how to move one. 
 The final boss was just not challenging once I figure out how to defeat it. The marine NPCs were 
 well done and they did hold there own of the most part, but sometime they shot me in the back or 
 go in the way if I had a target. Another problem was that only the pistol and the machine gun only 
 had the flashlight. It would have been nice if some of the other weapons with lighting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rocfort
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 5, 2005 4:54 am PT
Review:  uake 4 is really an ultra-gore game. If you like loose your arms and legs to become a strogg, if 
 you like putrescent transformation and stomach fluid as a key to open your way out, this game is 
 for you. Otherwise avoid to start it. I like Quake 4 for action, cruel situations and several varieties 
 of environments. The game is fluid, with incoming difficulties and increasing scaring situations. 
 Nothing really innovative but everything is at the right place (graphic, sound, gameplay) . For 
 sure this is my first Quake game, but definitely I spent several nights fighting stroggs with great 
 amusement. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jay646464
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 4, 2005 4:23 pm PT
Review:  I got this game about a week ago, and havn't yet completed it but I'm now far enough in the first 
 player to say it is absolutely awesome!
  Well thought out, well put together and with a storyline that features a nice little twist you 
 may not have been expecting.
  Most importantly I struggle with my current graphics card, Geforce FX5200, it ran Doom3 and the 
 expansion at 800x600 with a little lag, but Raven have been smart and made this backwards compatible, 
 (unlike those that developed F. E. A. R.) at 640x480 it still looks brilliant and does not lag in 
 the slightest.
  Anyways, my 6800Ultra arrives end of this week so I'm expecting to love this game even more... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: greek5
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 4, 2005 10:42 am PT
Review:  Don't know why alot of people are sceptical about the game.. the single player is one of the most 
 well thought of and exciting stories i've seen in a while.. it kept me playing hours on end.
  
  Multiplayer seems ok as well, but once the community start making more custom skin and bots 
 then it will become the hit its meant to be.
  
  If you have any doubts about this game, because of the idiotic reviews dont. Its a game well worth 
 the cash, and will keep you intrigued for hours on end.
  
  Graphics are good, not the best out there, but very good nonetheless. 
  Think doom 3, only with 
 more colours and light and more polished. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ariel_king
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 4, 2005 5:19 am PT
Review:  This game is the biggest improval to the Quake series.
  
  Gamplay: Unbelivible. You get tons of weapons for you to choose from. The AI are smart in this 
 game and the areas are unbelivible.
  
  Graphics: Beautiful. One of the best graphics in FPS game ever. The weapons look perfect and the 
 areas are beautiful and the enemies are fantastic.
  
  Sound: The sound of the weapons are beautiful but that's it. There is no music beside that but 
 still this game has a very cool weapon game.
  
  Value: You can play for hours and hours trying to finish the game. The storyline is very long and 
 the online feature can last forever. 
  
  Reviewer's tilt: Overall this game is an awsome shooter game for the PC and you should definitely 
 go and try this one out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BammBammBamm
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 2, 2005 9:00 pm PT
Review:  Quake 4 was all in all a very solid game. It combined everything that has made the ID house so 
 strong over the years. Interesting characters, captivating graphics and artwork, frightening sound 
 and great overall game play make Quake 4 the best one in the franchise yet. The DOOM 3 engine rocks, 
 the visuals are stunning. It was utilized much better in Quake 4 than in DOOM 3. The enemy A. I. 
 was decent, especially the marine turned Strogg troopers who moved in packs and made effective 
 use of cover. The story was paced well and moved quickly without any tedious blank spots. I appreciated 
 the complete absence of the ever popular Im lost where the hell was I going, lets backtrack 
 for 30 mins to find the right way detour. The one thing I would have liked to have seen more of 
 was vehicles, especially vehicles that didnt blatantly suck. Also squad based vehicles (A. K. A. 
 Warthogs) would have been refreshing instead of the tracked trams. This game is an intense and 
 exciting experience with awesome weaponry, great voice acting and all the alien blood and gore 
 you can handle in the dark. This most definitely gets my final stamp of approval. Easily 8.5/10 
 
  
  Bamm
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pagani07
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 2, 2005 8:36 pm PT
Review:  I bought Doom 3 when it came out and I was wowed by the graphics of the game and the gameplay. 
 I did kinda get ticked off by the randomness of the enemies and how they could just pop up behind 
 you. This game has a much better story in it, in my opinion. I mean, a huge planetary war is cooler 
 in my mind than the standard "oh, the one guy left has to fight his way out of thedemon/monster/what-have-you 
 infested area." The sound was good on a whole, the music was okay but I don't look for a great 
 score in an FPS. The graphics are basically Doom 3 with some smoother spots and A LOT MORE LIGHT. 
 Oh yeah, some of your guns have built in flashlights which makes it 5000 times better than Doom. 
 I don't really play the multiplayer (that's reserved for Guild Wars and Battlefield 2) so I won't 
 comment on that. If it comes to a choice between Doom 3 or Quake 4, I would definitely recommend 
 Quake 4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BrGabriel
Rating: 5.2
Date: Dec 2, 2005 8:55 am PT
Review:  It may be that I've just grown out of FPS that invovle nothing but shooting. I really would have 
 thought that the genre would have moved on since the early Quake/Doom period. But it quite clearly 
 hasn't. Yes this game has a few squad mates, yes the graphics are pretty enough, but I would question 
 whether they are any better than those in the original Unreal for example. Having played this for 
 4 hours or so now I really just come away with the feeling 'whats the point?'
  
  If you compare this game against other plotless, mindless shooters then I guess its fine, but its 
 really no different from Quake 2. However if you compare it against what other developers and designers 
 are doing with computer games, it really is just old tat dress up in new clothes. Lets compare 
 it with one of the best shooters to come out for a while - F. E. A. R. The latter has atmosphere, 
 great graphics, some plot, enormously invovling action. Quake 4 has virtually none of these - for 
 gods sake there is almost no capacity to interact with the environment in Quake (compare with F. E. A. R's 
 visceral firefights which blow chunks out of walls, floors etc) . The game a; so gives a new meaning 
 to the word linear and unlike other games that require a fairly linear path to be followed, it 
 really _feels_ linear as well.
  
  Another Doom 3 I'm afraid - and could that be more than coincidence? Perhaps one of the developers 
 or publishers invovled in producing this sort of rehashed tedium might consider that things have 
 just MOVED ON.
  
  If you must play it out of a sense of misguided loyalty to an old brand - wait a month or so for 
 it to turn up in the bargain bin.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: krisbl
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 2, 2005 7:57 am PT
Review:  For the single player, I felt like I was playing Doom3, it's based upon the same graphic techology 
 as doom and the gameplay also felt similar.
  Your put on a planet with monsters coming out to get you and your fellow soldiers. Can be quite 
 entertaining for some time, but in kinda "dabbs" out over time. But with the great graphics and 
 physics and a huge arsenal of weapon it's fun :P
  
  The thing that saved this game for me was the multiplayer.
  It was basicly Quake3, wrapped in 
 a new package.
  Which isn't bad, considering that Quake3 was one of the best fps games there was, in my opinion 
 (multiplayer) . It felt like Quake3 with new kickass graphics and some new levels/weapons.
  
  A game worth bying. :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Autaron
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 2, 2005 7:42 am PT
Review:  There is no doubt that former Quake gamers will love this game. The graphics is actually very good. 
 The singleplayer game is quite fun to play and the atmosphere is a lot like Doom 3. Not quite as 
 spooky, but it is very dark.
  Although Quake 4 is a fun game it has its downsides too, such as the multiplayer and the sounds. 
 
  There is almost no difference between the multiplayer in this game and Quake 3. The graphics is 
 different but the rest is just the same. The sounds are also the same, your weapons do not sound 
 any different from the former game and this really spoils some of the expectations I had to this 
 game.
  The game is, nevertheless great fun and you could definitely spend a lot of hours playing this 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VonCreme10
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 1, 2005 12:15 pm PT
Review:  The QUAKE series was one of the first PC games. At first it was just a 2bit shooter, but it has 
 expanded into a 3D psychotic FPS. 
  
  Graphics: Some of the best on the market. Everything is smooth, character models are great, but 
 it still lacks originality as it follows the same DOOM graphics engine. The FX and explosions are 
 nice and detailed. The faces are amazing! The enviorments are scary and realistic, with shiny metals 
 and elaborate colors. All of the monster models are amazing. There is a lot of variation in that.
 
  
  Sound: The sound isn't something breathtaking, but it is good. There are nice ambient sounds, and 
 the voice acting is a bit shaky. The monster sounds are spooky and different.
  
  Gameplay: Intense battles and expansive weapons, but nothing really special. The AI is decent, 
 but they just seem to shoot, take cover, and repeat. There are some challenges facing different 
 enemies, and there are many ways of getting the job done. There are some moments very similar to 
 DOOM, where the light goes out and when you furn on your flashlight, you are surrounded by monsters. 
 Very nice.
  
  Value: All in all, it is worth it. I would wait until it were 30-40 dollars as newcomers to QUAKE 
 might not enjoy it. As for experienced gamers, this is a big recommendation. For all DOOM fans: 
 this is your game to get! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Manciny911
Rating: 3.6
Date: Dec 1, 2005 11:53 am PT
Review:  This game is not even close to be a good game and then to think that it compete with Unreal Tournament 
 2004 haha what a laugh Unreal is still the best game ever!!!!!!. If you look at Quake the graphichs 
 aren't that great, gameplay should be MUCH better and the online mode SUX so in ONE word WORTHLESS 
 if you really wanna game a master game buy UNREAL TOURNAMENT 2004 because this is there for a while 
 but it is just GREAT for instance the graphichs are AWESOME, gameplay AWESOME and the Guns are 
 AWESOME too not to forget the MEGA Online mode just don't be a fool and buy this game I promise 
 you. You won't regret
  
  Greetings Manciny 
::::::

::::::
UserName: meforero
Rating: 6.3
Date: Dec 1, 2005 8:56 am PT
Review:  The same of all time, with more detail graphics, very dark
  The same of all time, with more detail graphics, very dark
  The same of all time, with more detail 
 graphics, very dark
  The same of all time, with more detail graphics, very dark
  The same of all time, with more detail graphics, very dark
  The same of all time, with more detail 
 graphics, very dark
  The same of all time, with more detail graphics, very dark
  The same of all time, with more detail graphics, very dark
  The same of all time, with more detail 
 graphics, very dark
  The same of all time, with more detail graphics, very dark
  The same of all time, with more detail graphics, very dark
  The same of all time, with more detail 
 graphics, very dark
  The same of all time, with more detail graphics, very dark
  The same of all time, with more detail graphics, very dark
  The same of all time, with more detail 
 graphics, very dark
  The same of all time, with more detail graphics, very dark
  The same of all time, with more detail graphics, very dark
  The same of all time, with more detail 
 graphics, very dark
  The same of all time, with more detail graphics, very dark
  The same of all time, with more detail graphics, very dark
  The same of all time, with more detail 
 graphics, very dark
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DigiAngel
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 30, 2005 6:38 pm PT
Review:  Quake comes out.. takes the world by storm. Quake II comes out, new look, same great gameplay. Quake 
 III was junk for a person who likes SP games and NOT MP, so we won't even count that here. Enter 
 Quake IV. A buddy of mine and I always discuss if a game has it or doesn't. This game does not. 
 Doom III and the addon were great... awesome gaming engine.. the works. Lotta fun to play. Quake 
 4 is just plain old boring. Nothing exciting about it... it's just boring. It's a game you play 
 with the headphones off and with the TV on so you can have something else to do. Quake IV tries 
 to put you vehicles and the like... one of which is a tank with about the worst controls I've seen. 
 While the sound and graphics engine are great, this is just another example of how a game looks 
 does NOT mean it will play well. At $50 this was a BIG loss. Wait for the $30 bargain bin. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blueman77
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 30, 2005 6:24 pm PT
Review:  Quake 4 looks awesome, tells a great story, and has decent multiplayer (not that I play multiplayer 
 games) . Action in the beginning is similar to Call of Duty, but it eventually wears down to good 
 'ol Quake II action. 
  Sound is perfect as well as presentation - there's plenty of bombs going off around you, and lighting 
 is excellent. The weapon sounds are stunning, and the voices sound professionally done, but I won't 
 give away any lines I found pretty funny. Special effects are near perfect, and if you have not 
 seen the D3 engine in action you will surely be dropping a few pellets from your bottom.
  Also, those dissapointed with Doom 3's gameplay will feel much better and finally stop whining. 
 You fight along with your soldiers to take down the enemy strogg, and sometimes you can chat (well, 
 barely) . You fight in wide open spaces and even pilot vehicles.
  Multiplayer --- well, I was never really a fan of Q3 multiplayer, so i guess my rating wouldn't 
 be fair.
  Quake 4 is definately a huge step forward from previous quakes, and the replay value was pretty 
 heavy for me (DON'T FORGET ABOUT MODS) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reallife_batman
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 30, 2005 3:28 pm PT
Review:  I never got into Quake II, I did however play alot of Quake and alot of Quake III: Arena and Team 
 Arena. Quake IV feels like a merge between Quake III and Doom 3. The single player is very well 
 written, from a story perspective and the multiplayer is almost identical to Quake III.
  Graphically, it is similar to Doom 3, I mean it uses the same graphics engine with some minor tweaks 
 here and there. The outdoor environments are very well created, though I can't help but feel that 
 there are other, more advanced graphics engines out there today that do a better job - especially 
 in the outdoor category.
  Sound it top notch, the monsters are very scary and the squad chatter adds alot of realism to the 
 plot, music is also in the game which really adds to the atmosphere of the scariest bits.
  The singleplayer campaign is something of a once its done its done type, though multiplayer is 
 an enjoyable aspect and should be real good fun at LANs in the future for me.
  Overall this is a great sequel to both the singleplayer Quake II and the multiplayer Quake III. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fork1990
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 29, 2005 9:02 pm PT
Review:  Back in 1996, I was 8 years old, my dad brought home quake 2, and i played, it was my first game, 
 it was so fun, i played it untill quake 3 arena came out. That game is a legend, some people dont 
 understand that the quake 4 multiplayer is what the quake fan wants! It doesnt need to be an icebreaker 
 for new styles of gaming. Quake fans wanted Quake multiplayer, and we have it, its excellent. And 
 if you object, well, obviously you arent... a quake fan. Go play FEAR. 
  
  The single player is just jaw dropping. Im so happy that iD and Activision (and ravensoft) finally 
 got together and made a sequel to the instant classic; Quake 2. The game is so enjoyable both singleplayer 
 & multiplayer alike. People say they beat singleplayer in 12 hours, etc. Well if they play it on 
 maximum difficulty they wouldnt have that problem would they? In my opinion Quake 4 is meant to 
 be played on the highest difficulty. 
  
  They did it nice too. If your a fan of the FPS genre but you dont want to have a heart attack from 
 playing Doom 3, Quake 4 is just right. Its dark, gloomy, and set in an industrial enviroment. With 
 half alien, half cyborg beings running around trying to rip off your head. What could be more intense? 
 
  
  If you are a fan of the Quake series then this is a must-have. If you dont like the multiplayer 
 that millions of Quake fans wanted. This game isnt for you.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hugostanford
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 29, 2005 8:24 pm PT
Review:  Change. Evolution. Adaptation. Progression.
  
  The gaming industry has been changing ever since its birth. It has been evolving to meet new needs. 
 It has been adapting to comply with new expectations. It has been progressing. We, as gamers, now 
 expect more than ever out of games. Once upon a time, two sliders and one ball was enough to entertain 
 us for hours, but not anymore. Now we want the best. We want story, we want plot. We want graphics, 
 we want eye candy. We want playability, we want finesse. We want the best.
  
  This, however, is where Quake IV falls down. Quake IV relies on the old and proven formula: give 
 you a gun and put an enemy in your way. This is reminiscent of the original Doom games, and the 
 first two Quake games. But it just doesnt cut it anymore. Quake IV has not evolved to meet our 
 changing expectations and it shines in the murky light of mediocrity.
  
  Quake IV picks up where Quake II left off. Earth is preparing a counter-attack on the planet Stroggos 
 after a lone marine hero defeats the Makron. You play Corporal Matthew Kane, who is a hero himself, 
 but for reasons that are never revealed. It is suspected that you are that very same lone marine 
 from Quake II who defeated the Makron boss, but it is never concreted.
  
  In the opening sequence, you are dropped into trenches of frantic firefights and sent on a task 
 to find a particular group of soldiers before backtracking to pick up a medic you passed earlier 
 to bring him to this particular group of soldiers. Confusing, isnt it? Luckily, this is one of 
 the few times in the game you have to do rather redundant tasks such as this, as most of the game 
 features you fighting and blasting away at hordes of Strogg as they charge mindlessly at you. Dont 
 get excited about meeting AI troops though - there is hardly any team or squad based combat here. 
 When you are teamed up with NPCs, they cannot even open a door without your help, let alone frag 
 some Strogg scum. Its disappointing really, seeing as squad based gameplay has come to be a bit 
 of an expectation among the gaming public and would have been warmly welcomed in this title.
  
  The AI featured in Quake IV is a major let down, after the treat of F. E. A. R, which featured 
 some of the best AI I have ever seen. The Strogg simply charge at you without a worry in the world. 
 Sometimes, if you are lucky, they will take cover behind a crate or barrel, but these moments are 
 few and far between. This, for the most part, makes fighting the Strogg pretty easy as mowing them 
 down becomes an exercise as opposed to a challenge. The AI will also only follow you up until a 
 point, making it easy for you to lead a few of the Strogg away from the group, and blast them away, 
 essentially breaking down the battle into smaller battles.
  
  Aware of the diminishing capture the run-and-gun formula has on the human attention span (surprising 
 really, as people these days can spend hours wasting away in front of a television) , Ravensoft 
 have thrown in a plot twist. The very thing youve come to hate, the very species you have been 
 relentlessly and incessantly firing away at capture you, and you become one of them. Pretty cool 
 ay? No.. not really. Essentially all that happens is you enter a fancy cut-scene where all sorts 
 of drills and operations happen to you, and then you wake up as a Strogg. You are then rescued 
 before a chip is implanted in your brain, and you continue on fighting like nothing ever happened. 
 There is no change in gameplay. What was the point? What Ravensoft should have done is made you 
 into a Strogg fully, where the humans were your enemy and where you fight and kill the marines 
 you were just running with. Perhaps then, they couldve even thrown a fork into the road where 
 you are forced to choose between destroying the human invasion, and then destroying Earth, or to 
 destroy Stroggos and sacrifice yourself proving that one ounce of humanity you still have left 
 inside of you, proving humans can conquer the Strogg against all odds. Alas, apparently the story-boarders 
 were not creative enough, and left us with a run-and-gun-intermission (where you become Strogg) -run-and-gun 
 game.
  
  There are a few different moments where you are in a vehicle (either a tank, a mech-walker or a 
 train carriage) and you are presented with fast-paced fragging which is quite fun. You travel through 
 extremely linear environments without having to worry about find health packs or unlocking doors 
 as the shields on your vehicle automatically regenerate after an amount of time. This was a nice 
 break from the on-foot gameplay, but thats all it really was, a break. There was not enough of 
 this gameplay to improve Quake IV as a whole, unfortunately.
  
  Killing the Strogg is good fun, still. I mean, since when does blasting away hell spawn with a 
 huge arsenal of weapons including a chargeable pistol, assault rifle, shotgun, grenade launcher, 
 rocket launcher, nail gun, plasma gun, rail gun, lightning gun and BFG (dark matter gun) . Herein 
 the problem lies, that in order to bring any member of the Strogg down, you have to pump him full 
 of lead/plasma/energy/buckshot like they do in the movies - there are no hit-zones, headshots do 
 not work. Ironically, being the least advanced, the shotgun is perhaps the most useful weapon as 
 it enables you to take down enemies quickly and effectively at close range.
  
  A nifty little feature thrown into Quake IV is the ability to upgrade your weapons. As you progress 
 through the game, youll meet various technicians who will modify your weapons to make them more 
 effective (whether it be clip size, re-fire rate or the ability for your shots to bounce off walls) . 
 The lightning gun gains a chain effect, the rocket launcher loads three rockets instead of one, 
 the nail gun gains a homing effect and the hyperblasters shots rebound off walls. This helps to 
 make the game a little more varied, but it doesnt hide the fact that all you are really doing 
 is mindless shooting.
  
  Where the singleplayer experience really falls down is through its linear nature and extremely 
 old-school gameplay style. It sticks to the Doom forumla so closely that it is silly, mainly because 
 the gaming majority dont want that anymore. As I stated earlier, we all want the best.
  
  Multiplayer is also a major letdown. It is essentially Quake III style multiplayer, with a face 
 lift and the weapons still auto-change when you pick them up. Annoying? Yes. The multiplayer in 
 Quake IV is unvaried and uninspired. There are the usual CTF, DM modes which really offer nothing 
 different from the whole multitude of other multiplayer shooters on the market today, rendering 
 it solid, but not spectacular. Quake IV is the complete opposite of the Tribes series of what it 
 adds to multiplayer gaming.
  
  Well, I cant spend all night bashing Quake IV, can I? If there is one thing that is absolutely 
 brilliant about this game, it is the way it looks and sounds. Using an advanced version of the 
 Doom 3 engine, this game simply glows in an aura of beauty. The environments are vivid and detailed, 
 the real time lighting and shadows spectacular, the character models and textures jaw-dropping. 
 There is nothing not to like about the way Quake IV looks.
  
  Ravensoft promised us that it would look extremely different from Doom 3, and while this is not 
 entirely true (as many of those dark rooms and corridors are Doom 3-esque) they have done a marvelous 
 job with the engine. On the rig that I tested this game on, a P4 3.2, 6800GT, 1 gig PC3200 it ran 
 blazingly fast at the High detail level, netting me frame rates of at least 40 at any given point. 
 What the engine does lack, however, is the physics ability of the Source engine, which powered 
 Half Life 2. While this would not be necessary for the game that Quake IV is, it would have been 
 a nice touch.
  
  Ravensoft have done a good job with weapon sounds, and the environmental music is immersive, dark 
 and foreboding. What is lacking though, which was apparent in the previous Quake title, is the 
 cheesy industrial metal which really helped speed the game up. Quake IV just doesnt feel as fast 
 as Quake II did, and this can be largely attributed to the much slower and controlled music. The 
 voice work is above average, featuring (I believe) some celebrity talent.
  
  If you are a fan of the Quake series, perhaps this game will be a worthwhile buy. It provides some 
 8-10 hours of solid gameplay, as well as a return to the legendary franchise. If you, however, 
 are simply looking for a great FPS to play, something to blow your socks away, this title isnt 
 for you. Youd be better off checking out Monoliths F. E. A. R than treading into this generic and 
 formulaic game that is Quake IV.
  
  Overall: 6/10 
  
  http://gametalk. blogbloom. com/ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SkarpHedin
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 29, 2005 10:18 am PT
Review:  Quake has been around for almost a decade now, making a big name for itself on the way. Arguably, 
 the strong point of the Quake series has always been it's addictive multiplayer portion, with the 
 exception of Quake 2's excellent singleplayer portion. This is mainly where Q4's focus is, and 
 it shows.
  
  The singleplayer takes place right after Quake 2 ended. The Macron has been defeated, and you're 
 being sent to the planet Stroggos to clean up the mess. Throughout the game you'll encounter different 
 foes, but they stay pretty much the same the whole way. The weapons in Q4 are all pretty familiar. 
 From the shotgun to the railgun, they all have that old-school feel, but with totally new, and 
 very good, design. The neat thing with the singleplayer portion, aside from it's surprisingly fun 
 action, is the way you get better weapons. Or should I say, make your weapons better. Throughout 
 the game you'll encounter different marines, including medics, and techs (can't remember what they're 
 called at the moment, sorry) , which refills your health and armor. Techs also provide you with 
 upgrades for your weapons from time to time. This can be everything from homing upgrades, to increased 
 fire-rates, and so on. This helps to make a more interesting experience.
  
  As you may have figured out, the enemies you fight are called Strogg (hence the name on the planet, 
 Stroggos) . They are conducting experiments on humans, making them one of their own. This plays 
 a big part of the game, since you actually become a Strogg yourself at one point. With this you 
 get certain strogg abilities, and can understand the Strogg language. This doesn't make for the 
 huge gameplay shift that I expected at first, but provides fun none the less.
  
  Then there's the multiplayer.
  Anyone who's played Quake 3 will instantly be right at home with 
 how the multiplayer works. Basically what they've done, is take what was good about the quake 2 
 multiplayer, and quake 3, and mashed into the Doom3 engine. Oh, and don't let the Doom3 name fool 
 you. Raven has taken the engine, and rewritten the netcode, so it's a lot more stable than that 
 of Doom3. 
  The multiplayer consist of 5 modes. Deathmatch, Team Deathmatch, Capture the Flag, Arena CTF and 
 Tourney. I'm not really going to say alot about the multiplayer, other than it's awesome. The announcer 
 is the same guy from Q3, so is pretty much everything else.
  
  In the end, Quake 4 comes out as a mix between a very entertaining Singleplayer game, and a damn 
 good, but very old-school multiplayer. It may not be as sophisticated shooter out there, but it 
 provides a solid experience all the way to the end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShadowGryphon
Rating: 4.8
Date: Nov 29, 2005 4:24 am PT
Review:  Where to begin........
  ok, on the story side of things, Quake 4 does well at continuing where 2 left off.
  But thats 
 it............ visually, this might as well have been titled Quake 4: Doom 3 part 2, as I felt 
 like I was back wandering the same halls layed out in Doom 3.
  Yes, I know Q4 was made with the same engine but in all seriousness, Raven could have done MUCH 
 more to seperate it from D3.
  
  Gameplay was your standard FPS fare, Q4 did nothing to set any new standards. I felt that I was 
 pretty much set on a track (like the Tram section heh heh) and not allowed to deviate in any way. 
 I'll admit that Farcry spoiled me in this respect, but it doesn't change the fact that I felt like 
 I was being led around by the nose.
  
  Now to the technical aspects of the game.
  1: who's brain cramp was it that led to the idea of players NOT being able to turn down, or kill 
 altogether, the music track?! 
  don't get me wrong, I understand that some players like to listen to the game music while playing......... 
 but for those of us who don't......... come on!
  There was ONE volume level adjustment and it was for the MAIN volume, so if you turn IT down...... 
 you turn down ALL the sound........ piss poor coding guys!
  the reason I bring this up was because the music would kick in and become really dramatic at the 
 worst times, I. E. a character is talking to you and giving orders......... that character is drowned 
 out by the music, so you have to guess at what you're to do by whatever little info to DID get.
 
  
  2: controller option............. I should say LACK of such.
  when I play FPS's I use the Belkin Nostromo N52 instead of my keyboard, guess what.......... that 
 didn't happen. I had NO way to map the keys on my N52 to the game, Hell Q4 wouldn't even recognize 
 it.
  
  3: Multiplayer. this was a minor disappointment. I say minor in that the folks here at gamespot 
 DID alert me to the fact that it wasn't very good.
  the maps I played in felt cramped and over crowded, the actual join up was slow and difficult, 
 all in all I'd have to say that Halo multiplayer is the better deal.
  
  4: Play time, heh, I bought the game on friday and finished it 2 days later on sunday. I did not 
 play Q4 fo very long each day, maybe 2 -3 hours.
  WHAT A JOKE! I wouldn't complain if there was a -reason- to play Q4 again, but after you play it 
 once, you've pretty much seen everything (again Farcry spoiled me on this) .
  
  I paid $30 + tax for Q4 (got it on sale) , and I feel like I got ripped off. 
  I should have gone 
 with my gut and ignored it until it hit the $10 mark. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: monkeyboy070
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 13, 2008 10:51 pm PT
Review:  Fps horrors are the easiest/hardest games to make. They have to get you into it, get in your head 
 a scare you a little. They gotta grosse you out too. But a military shooter is hard to make too. 
 It is hard to copy the stategies, normal actions... ect of a military shooter. This game manges 
 to slip both into one.
  
  Graphics: For its gen, they are great. they arent' intended so much to have high res but high lighting 
 affects, shadows, ect... This things that are creepy. That isn't to say there is high detail, but 
 it isn't as good as some other recent releases... (half life?) They shadows and lighting affects 
 mixed with the sound reaches out and keeps your eyes and ears wide. You are always looking for 
 a shadow that moved....
  
  Gameplay: This is where it hits. With out releasing too much info on that game, this game will 
 take you from being part of a military unit working together to a horror show and back again. It 
 is hard to describe better than that. They will have you fighting along side some unit, then suddenly 
 throw you, by some random chance, into the gruesome side of the strogg. It is both horrific and 
 enthrawling at the same time. 
  
  Multiplayer: This would be the beautiful let down of the game. Not like they could do much different, 
 but the mp on this game is just quake 3 polished with new graphics and slightly diferent acting 
 weapons. Nothing mind blowing, but if you like quake 3 like I idid, it was a nice a run down memory 
 lane. Staying up until 3, 4, 5 am to play quake 3 online. Ya...
  
  Overall, 8.5, great game play, good graphics, but not the greatest mp ever.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rawn
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 26, 2005 12:31 pm PT
Review:  The story is fairly well done, better than most shooters (hard to be worse than nothing, lol) . 
 A couple small things here and there are unexplained (like the multiple Makrons...) , but they are 
 definitely not story stoppers. Moves pretty well.
  
  Top notch graphics, based off the Doom 3 engine. A little intense for most computers, but once 
 you set it to what your box can handle, it still looks wonderful. I had mine set to near-lowest 
 settings (since my hardware is nearly three years old) , and it still looked and moved fluidly.
 
  
  The gameplay is fantastic, with nearly non-stop action. There's a lot of unit-based action, with 
 the player spending quite a bit of time with other soldiers and even developing a bit of a bond 
 with his own unit, Rhino squad. Enemies are always coming from damn near everywhere, though a cleared 
 area stays clear (thank you id) . There are a couple pathetic attempts to include puzzles later 
 in the game, though they are easy enough.
  
  There are a few vehicle levels (riding in a troop carrier, driving a tank, driving a mech, and 
 riding in a tram) which are very well done, proving difficult but not impossible. I would've liked 
 to see more tank or mech time, but the game is already pretty long.
  
  The sound is pretty sad. I had to pull some tricks out of nowhere to get it to work, and even then 
 it all sounds really tinny. It gets the point across, though, so it's not a total failure. Honestly, 
 I'm not even sure if there is music in the game. I want to say that there is, but I can't remember 
 any for the life of me. So I suppose the soundtrack, if there is one, is completely forgettable.
 
  
  Overall, well done and very much worth picking up when the price goes down and they support more 
 hardware (or if you have the extra cash and an itchy trigger finger) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sniper
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 26, 2005 12:11 pm PT
Review:  Maybe Activision/Raven/id shouldn't have released Quake 4 so soon after Doom 3, because this latest 
 game merely feels like an extension of Doom set on another planet. The pacing is faster, and the 
 color brown has been replaced by the color green, but otherwise Quake 4 isn't that much different 
 than Doom 3.
  
  Quake's single-player campaign is certainly more enjoyable than Doom's. Instead of a slow, plodding 
 horror story, you're involved in all-out war. This makes Quake 4 feel epic.
  
  However, why did the pervasive darkness and harsh shadows have to carry over from Doom? If you 
 found that game's art direction to be a strain on your eyesight, then Quake 4 won't be any easier 
 to digest. Quake 4 literally makes your eyeballs hurt because it's way too dark.
  
  If the harsh, intermittent lighting doesn't give you a headache (or seizures) , and you haven't 
 played Doom 3, then Quake 4 offers much to enjoy. The various weapons are cool and provide a tactile 
 reward in the form of beefy sound effects and explosions. Every level is crammed full of details 
 such as pipes, wires, windows, doors, heavy machinery, grotesque bio-devices that used to be humans, 
 floor plates and grates. Voice acting in Quake 4 is well done, especially when the arrogant Straus 
 character speaks up. There's good variety too in the action, with an on-rails shooting segment, 
 booming hover tank battles, mech fighting, a nicely done (for once) jumping puzzle level, and of 
 course first-person running and gunning.
  
  Overall, Quake 4 is a solid single-player shooter with weak multiplay (basic CTF and deathmatch 
 aren't terribly interesting anymore) . If you skipped Doom 3, pick up Quake 4 for some signature 
 id FPS action. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Groter
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 25, 2005 6:57 pm PT
Review:  This game is great
  
  Gameplay- 10/10- HIGHLY addictive, once you start, you wont be able to stop
  
  Graphics- 10/10- 
 The graphics are just as great as Doom 3 and even better
  
  Sound- 9/10- Meh my sound card sucks so cant really say much about it
  
  Storyline- 8/10- Not 
 the best but definately great
  
  Violence- 10/10- Tons of blood and gore
  
  Multiplayer- 4/10- Nothing new, action is too fast paced, havent seen any vehicles yet
  
  Overrall- 
 8.2- Awesome game, what it lacks in multiplayer action it makes up in single player. Definately 
 a must buy if you have a good comp and don't mind bad multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZippyDSMLee
Rating: 6.1
Date: Jun 11, 2007 6:13 pm PT
Review:  Graphics
  Well we know what they focused on.....
  
  Story
  Basic story nothign great but not nothign abd
  
  Voice Acting
  Quality VAs but only a few 
 of them so everyone has the same voice kinda like DOOM 3.
  
  Gameplay
  Basic gameplay dragged out of the remains of DOOM3
  
  Music
  forgettable event music......
 
  
  Sound
  Basic sounds enough to cover the basics...
  
  Level Design
  I hate the NEW level design style most devs use now a days
  lil to no stashes you'd think secrets 
 areas are a crime now a days, even that put aside the layouts are simple and are big as they can 
 be since it is the D3 engine holding ti back..... Char/Enemy Design
  Nothing to fancy altho I will admit I like Strauss hes funny *L*
  
  Overall
  I want to give 
 it a 6 but I cant change the attributes to where it will say 6.... graphics would have been a 10 
 if there were no lil graphic bugs like there was in D3...
  in the end this is mediocreness at its best....
  ---------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Cleaning up some of my reviews for grammar errors now that I know how to edit them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doomhesoka55
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 25, 2005 7:46 am PT
Review:  I think that this game is realy a great game, and its gameplay is fantastic, specially when you 
 shot alians using the shotgun but its sound is not differ from doom3 sounds and i think that its 
 graphics is great and any one will like to play the game because this great grphics that the . 
 and when I play the game there is just one thing let me down, Its my slow pc because the loading 
 last about 3 minutes to finish and when I play outside building the game wiil be slow so that I 
 am now play the game not in the best detail that it can get .
  
  When you begin playing the game you will say thet after this stage I will get out but when you 
 finish the stage you will know you would like to play other stage, it amaizing
  
  the last thing that I like say is that the game is easy and not like doom3 or Quake3Arena or any 
 id game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phaitaccompli
Rating: 2.8
Date: Nov 25, 2005 6:41 am PT
Review:  Hey, didn't we see this before with Quake 2? Yes we did. The weapon sounds are embarrasingly weak. 
 The machine gun looks so small as to be a toy. The nailgun is stiff and doesn't do justice to the 
 nailgun in Q1. Don't even get me started on the monster design - it's beyond ridiculous looking. 
 How about that big, buffoonish-grinning-dumb-ape monster, which looks most out of place amidst 
 the terrifying Strogg? How about the music? It sounds totally pretentious. The monster audio is 
 horrible too, what with that first-tier monster constantly going "hweeha-aghgh!". They also didn't 
 differentiate Q4 from D3 that much with the D3 engine. Let's not forget Raven's biggest folly, 
 mentioning the spoiler of Stroggification before Q4's release. Hoo boy, didn't see that coming! 
 Not only that, the game feels "on rails" and very console-ified. Is it just me, or do so many games 
 that were PC first, that come to consoles, really lack something?
  
  I really feel the Quake legacy is ruined with Q4. It's like it's trying to be everything at once, 
 and yet be accessible enough for the console... it's just so watered down. What a dissapointment. 
 Raven has done better games in the past. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dennis2000
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 24, 2005 8:41 pm PT
Review:  This game totally takes the FPS gamer back to its roots. I was anticipating this game ever since 
 I viewed a trailer on Gamespot. It has everything. Great graphics, gameplay, the story is not original 
 but it's straight forward. Prevent alien forces from evading Earth by any means necessary. I'm 
 so sick and tired of people comparing this game to Doom 3 and Fear. Yes, it utilizes the Doom 3 
 engine to the fullest, but to compare it to that game is absurd. Doom 3 focuses more on horror 
 with a blend of action, especially towards the end. Fear is a combination of both, with a strong 
 emphasis on horror from beginning to end. Quake 4 is non-stop action from beginning to end. We 
 got back what's been missing from First Person Shooters. No holds bard, gun in your face, grenade 
 launching action that never gets old. Don't get me wrong, I own all 3 games and I enjoy them all. 
 But in my opinion, Quake 4 is the perfect game for a guy who works 8 hrs. a day, 5 days a week 
 in a very aggravating office environment. It's a total stress reliever. Ok enough with reading 
 this review. Make sure your pc exceeds the recommended system requirements and go out and get this 
 game. You'll be glad you did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Genesys_4
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 24, 2005 1:03 am PT
Review:  when I 1st heard bout this game, I quickly refer to Doom 3. is it as nice as D3? that was what 
 I was thinking. well, it does use D3 engine - which makes the graphic extremely nice and it does 
 improve from back then. then what was about the hype they r all talking about. well, as far as I 
 know it uses D3 engine and that's that. this game is typically a normal, classic FPS. it's nice 
 though don't get me wrong but in somehow someway it didn't evolve. I was actually shocked why gamespot 
 gave it just around 8, due to the hype Q4 gave us during E3. after I played it, I realize (it's 
 not bad though don't get me wrong) . compare to D3, this game offers a wide selection of weaponry 
 to use and it's getting powerful throughout the course of the game. and if u wonder is it hard? 
 worry not, it's just right. in some levels u'll be playing with ur squad, so don't worry about u 
 gettin' blasted. eitherway I recommend this to FPS-lover and quake-enthuthiast. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Caliban94
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 23, 2005 8:09 am PT
Review:  WOW!!! where to begin. First off. the multi player is INSANELY PERFECT!!! The deathmatches are 
 THE BEST!! 8 on 8 CTF NOTHING BETTER!! 
  
  single player is astonishing!!! the weapons are awesome!! a lot of upgrades from quake 3 arena. 
 The sound from the guns and enemies my god PERFECT!!! this game deserves more players!!! F****N 
 BUY IT!!!! 
  The graphics are so Flippin' CRAZY!!! Doom3 engine devolpers are getting rich QUICK!! The controls 
 ar eperfect! you can customize it to your own feel!!! its SO F****N PERFECT!!!!!! YOU WILL NOT 
 BE DISAPOINTED!!
  The levelsare amazing!!!! so many secrets, so many enemies, so many times I've played this game 
 over and over.
  But the SHINE of the game is the MULTIPLAYER!!! PLAY IT!!! BUY IT!!!
  
  ITS WORTH MORE THAN $50!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thing50
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 22, 2005 9:03 am PT
Review:  Sorry, this game is about as exciting as watching paint dry...
  FPS... except u have have your army 'buddy's' along with you, . And these guy's are seemingly indestructable 
 so why bother fighting? Just hide around a corner and let them finish off the enemy...
  Man quake should be about you v them... the lone struggle... that's what makes 'quake'. These indestructable 
 retards along with you for the ride just ain't doin it for me. OK OK nice graphics (yawn) ... graphic's 
 are getting boring now... all new games have nice graphics... its not making games anymore you need 
 something else. Back in the day games like Doom and Quake had clever level design and the sense 
 of humour was kind of twisted and witty... now its just 'blow this up' 'shoot that'... its like a 
 cheesy hollywood sci-fi pampering to the idea that people's imaginations cannot cope with something 
 'different' so go with the flow and make a game with a hollywood cardboard cutout seen it all before 
 macho american soldiering bang bang bang hut hut hut!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mcerikson
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 22, 2005 7:26 am PT
Review:  War, pure war. Quake 4 is way better than Doom 3 because in my opinion the engine works better 
 and offers better gameplay on a war scene, not saying that it wasn't revolutionary on Doom 3 but 
 just take a closer look and the game will immerse u in a better way. That wasn't a marine on Doom 
 3, this is a real marine on Quake 4. I like the graphics more, the action is more frenetic, the 
 singleplayer campaign is super and there had to be a connection from previous games (at least the 
 Quake 2) . the moment when u step inside the USS Hannibal marine corps space ship is the reason 
 why u must take this game seriously. My only complaint is about the tanks, walkers action, is way 
 too easy and there is no challenge. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ICEMAN_55
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 21, 2005 11:13 am PT
Review:  Quake 4 I feel is awfull. The graphics are great, but that's it. If I play at corpral i'm in a 
 squad. The Skrogg are many, very vicious, unrelenting and they don't miss very often. On the other 
 hand last night I tried Private and that's no good because the game skips many scenes that are 
 in corpral. The entire squad is killed off except for one guy and the urge too cheat is extremely 
 strong. I feel that sucks in a game. I also played F. E. A. R. and for comparison reasons I've played 
 the the game on the extremely difficult level which is the hardest level and I don't think of cheating. 
 The game gives me the urge to just try harder. In Quake 4 there's something missing. The guys at 
 id need to go back to the drawing room. First of all they got the title wrong. They should've named 
 it something like Quake ll 2005. They shouldn't call it 4 because 3 had nothing to do with the 
 struggle against the Skrogg enemy. Three was just a mindless killing game. Don't get me wrong. 
 I like multiplayer with all the mindless killing that goes with it. Well that's it. If you love 
 killer graphics and nothing else much matters then buy Quake 4 then save your fiftyfive dollars. 
 I paid the extra five bucks because I wanted the special DVD Edition. I prefer games on dvd because 
 I only have to deal with one disc plus the box has Quake ll and two expansion packs. I tried installing 
 Quake ll and the graphic are terrible. Nomatter what I did I couldn't get good resolution. I'm 
 using a BFG 6800gt oc card and the graphics still stink. Don't buy this deal, the whole thing is 
 a waste! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spelman
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 21, 2005 2:43 am PT
Review:  This is a good game, fun to play and good to look at but in some way I found myself disappointed. 
 It was only after playing F. E. A. R. that I realised why.
  
  Quake 4 uses the Doom 3 engine and, in fact, in alot of ways the graphical similarities are so 
 great that they could essentially be the same game. However, Quake 4 has a clear edge mixing in 
 some great outside locations with the creepy dark corridors we're all used to from Doom 3. Oh, 
 and the marines in this universes have finally discovered that you can use duct tape to stick a 
 flash-light to your machine gun so you can shoot and see at the same time! The Strogg have never 
 looked better and there are a great variety of foes for you to send packing. The arsenal of weapons 
 is a familar one to anyone who has played a FPS recently with everything from pistols to rocket 
 launchers and antimatter guns (BFG anyone?) . 
  
  Some of the other (positive) differences over Doom 3 are that Quake 4 throws many more enemies 
 at you and so fire fights tend to be quite hectic. You also get to fight along side some other 
 marines and this adds a bit more variety to things. Finally, Quake 4 mixes in some vehicle based 
 combat, most of which are essentially rail shooters. These sequences are great fun and break up 
 the normal combat but unfortunately are too easy, too short and not really much of a challenge.
 
  
  So Quake 4 looks great, has lots of things that go boom and splat (in that order) and is fun to 
 play yet, something is missing. The problem here is that the combat in Quake 4 just has not moved 
 on. Strogg tactics fall into two categories; foes that charge at you and try and hit/shoot you 
 or foes that hide behind something and shoot at you. That's it. More challenging foes are simply 
 tougher with bigger guns. Compare this to the foes in F. E. A. R. and you'll realise that although 
 Quake 4 looks great, as far as the game play is concerned it is still essentially Doom .
  
  In summary, I would recommend Quake 4 to anyone who enjoys letting off a bit of steam by blowing 
 stuff up. There is a lot of fun to be had here but once you put aside the graphics the game play 
 is very familar and probably won't have you coming back asking for more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CrusherOfThings
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 19, 2005 9:01 pm PT
Review:  Disclaimer: My time spent with this game is multi player only, as I have no interest in single 
 player Quake.
  
  So, my local Gamestop told me that Quake 4 on the Xbox 360 would be better, so I had reserved it 
 for the 360. But then I thought about it; no map editor, no mods, higher resolution on a monitor, 
 mouse and keyboard vs. game pad, etc. So I changed my mind right quick, went to Gamestop, and bought 
 the PC version.
  
  So what was I expecting as I installed this latest incarnation of Quake? Pretty much what I found 
 when I played it. Let's face it, Quake is Quake is Quake. If it ain't broke don't fix it. And that's 
 the philosophy behind the game. Pretty much what we have is Quake 3 on steroids. The graphics are 
 to die for. Everything is rendered to perfection in all its gory detail. 
  
  After playing games like Joint Operations and Battlefield 2, I wasn't sure how I'd take going back 
 to regular old Deathmatch. I must say I'm back, and I couldn't be happier. Nothing is more satisfying 
 than adrenaline pumping arena combat.
  
  The sound is spot on and basically what you'd expect from a Quake game. Nothing revolutionary, 
 but that pretty much sums up Quake 4 as a whole.
  
  The game may not be revolutionary, but Quake has never been done this well before. I say this is 
 the best version of Quake. You get your standard awesome Deathmatch gaming PLUS a good single player 
 game if that's your thing. But as I stated I have not spent any time with single player as multi 
 player is where the Quake action is at for me.
  
  So all in all, I got my money's worth. I've always been more fond of the gory and eerie Quake atmosphere 
 vs. the Unreal Tournament series, and I found my latest FPS fix with Q4. Thanks Raven and id! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mac-Lan
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 19, 2005 11:28 am PT
Review:  Everyone knows the games Quake. If you don't know it, I'll better call medical help. Quake III 
 was one of the most popular online played games on the PC. But now there is Quake IV, Yes!!! Finally. 
 If you' re a gamer who likes to KILL, that's your game. In Quake 4, you play as a space marine 
 named Matthew Kane, who has recently been assigned to Rhino Squad. In keeping with first-person 
 shooter storyline tradition. But you don't have to buy the game for the story mode but for the 
 fantastic multiplayer. Like the other Quake games you're playing in futuristic maps where you can 
 fiind all cinde of machineguns, grenade and rocket launchers, shotguns, lightning guns, and a nailgun 
 
  No ammo left?? Kill him with your saw. All this is backed by graphics that are awesome in their 
 own right. The creatures that fill the game's four worlds and 28 levels are, as you might expect, 
 sick, twisted, and perverse. 
  With Quake's 28 artfully balanced multiplayer maps no way you won't likte this game. Some of those 
 maps are a bit to big so you'll have to search for your anemys. What more can I say, oh yeah, run 
 to the store and go get it.
  Kill them all.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: liraris
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 19, 2005 9:53 am PT
Review:  A great game. I played all of the quake series and by far this is the best of them all. Game play 
 could be better . Some parts in the game however are virtually unpassable without cheats. The good 
 thing is that you are not alone. Its a big help to have other squad members to do the dirty work.
 
  The missions are very enjoyable and fun . Especially the ones that you can use the different vehicles. 
 The graphics are great. The outside of Strogos is really depicted well in this game. The weapons 
 are great. I really enjoyed playing this game. I would recommend it . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fugas16
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 18, 2005 10:58 am PT
Review:  Realmente tiene muchas espectativas este juego, tiene mas de lo k me esperaba.
  la verdad es un muy buen juego la verdad si llegaste a jugar el primer quake tienes k jugar este 
 por k la verdad el esperar tanto tienpo para una continuacion es muy bueno y la verdad a mi no 
 me descepciono este juego por k tiene todo tiene dificultad, tiene sangre, tiene suspenso y tiene 
 mucha accion y sobre todo k no es la tipica historia de k nada mas vas tu solo contra todos los 
 monstruos y tu solo haces todo aki tienes un equipo k te ayuda y pus la verdad me gusto mucho este 
 juego. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thanos_of_MW
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 18, 2005 10:41 am PT
Review:  First, I am not a big fan of FPS games, so take my review with a grain of salt. I usually play 
 FPS games out of curiosity, when they are showing off new technology. That said, this game is as 
 demanding on your hardware as Doom 3 is. Not surprising since it is based on the same engine. I 
 tested it on 3 different machines, and I have to say that you dont want to play this game on anything 
 less than a P4 2.5GHz with a GeForce 6600 card. It performed better on my P4 3.2GHz with a GeForce 
 6800GT. Mind you, you need to drop the anti-aliasing and the resolution to a maximum of 1024x768 
 on the 2.5GHz machine if you want to play this game at a decent pace.
  The sound is good and the ambient sounds add to the creepy atmosphere of the game. They did a good 
 job following up the story from Quake 2. The graphics are excellent, as I expected no less from 
 Carmack and his team. A lot of attention to detail on the textures and the special effects. The 
 play between shadows and light add to the ambience and creepiness. The strogg aliens are well designed 
 and some are even scary enough to run little kids out of the room. The single player campaigns 
 story is not deep but it is involving and kept me coming back to the game until I finished it. 
 Unfortunately, as most other FPS games, I wont be coming back to it to replay it, since the replay 
 value is on the multiplayer aspect of the game. The single player campaign is linear and thus holds 
 no replay value.
  It is a great technology showcase as Doom 3 is, but if you are not a fan of online multiplayer 
 it will provide you with only a few good hours of entertainment.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: drswank
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 17, 2005 7:20 pm PT
Review:  Ever since the original Quake hit the scene in 1996 the series has been known for its fast paced 
 and diverse multiplayer. From the original game that harkened the beginning of internet play to 
 the third game which made multiplayer its main focus, Quake has always been about playing against 
 other people. With the addition of the seemingly single-player focused Doom 3 engine the focus 
 seems to have been reversed this time around. What youll find in this package is a very immersive 
 single player campaign that will take you in with some excellent visuals, great ambient sounds, 
 and some pretty memorable moments to boot. What many hardcore fans of the series may find disappointing 
 is the seemingly updated version of Quake 3 thats attached to it. While Raven Software has done 
 some impressive wonders with the single player game and the Doom 3 engine in general, those who 
 were hoping for some new additions to the multiplayer will feel left out in the cold. 
  
  Quake 4 takes place after the events of Quake 2 with the human race engaged in a desperate war 
 with the Strogg, an alien race that are as much machines as they are organic material. You play 
 as Matthew Caine a marine that has just been transferred into a group of hard-nosed hooligans known 
 as Rhino Squad. After your transport gets shot down, the game immediately throws you into the trenches 
 and never really stops from there. 
  
  Right off the bat youll notice that the environments are a lot more diverse than those in Doom 
 3 as youll spend the first five minutes of the game navigating trenches from the crash site to 
 meet up with your fellow squad mates. While its guaranteed that youll spend the majority of your 
 time navigating claustrophobic and poorly lit Strogg hallways, youll also be spending a good amount 
 of time driving around the alien landscape on a variety of vehicles. Indoor environments are a 
 lot more varied and colorful than those seen in Doom. While Doom attempted to scare you with cheap 
 surprises and a shroud of darkness, Quake 4 does it with some really nice lighting effects and 
 Geiger-esque imagery that goes beyond what anyone could have expected from the engine its running 
 on. 
  
  While the games overall presentation is worthy of praise, the gameplay suffers for the same reasons 
 why Doom 3 let its fair share of people down. The general gameplay is all objective-based and the 
 number of objectives for each level depends on what your superiors are assigning you over the squawk 
 box. Eventually youll start to think that Caine is the squads errand boy rather than a member 
 of the team. Of course the story does a decent job of justifying itself but the excuses start wearing 
 thin after a while. Each level starts to give you a feeling of linearity since youll pass by a 
 number of locked doors on your way to completing an objective only to have it miraculously unlock 
 after completion. At least the monster in the closet design is nowhere to be found here. While 
 youre making your way through each mission youll come across other space marines that will fight 
 alongside you. While some are more prone to getting killed than others, they all do a great job 
 of taking down any Strogg that appear in front of them. Youll also come across medics that will 
 heal you and techs that repair your armor which in turn gives you more incentive to try to keep 
 your partners alive. Some techs will even modify your weapons to hold larger clips, allow ammo 
 to lock onto targets, or in the case of the lightning gun, cause bolts to spread to nearby enemies. 
 These upgrades can come in handy against some of the tougher customers and the ever-increasing 
 number of enemies youll come across in later stages of the game. Missions are regularly divided 
 into multiple segments that are preceded by frequent load times that can be pretty painful on modest 
 systems. 
  
  All of the traditional Quake weapons are back and are what youd expect from previous games in 
 the series. There are a couple of new features, being that your standard blaster and machine gun 
 come equipped with built-in flashlights. Your blaster can be charged by holding down the fire button 
 for a short amount of time, though it still doesnt make much of a difference and youll never 
 really have to resort to it thanks to the abundance of ammo youll find lying around. The machine 
 gun also boasts a zoom feature that helps it to double as a sort of underpowered sniper rifle. 
 Aside from those small changes the shotgun, rocket launcher, lightning gun, grenade launcher, rail 
 gun, nail gun, and hyperblaster (formerly the plasma gun) are all as you may remember them. One 
 new addition to your arsenal is a powerful dark matter weapon which fires a black hole and drains 
 health from everything around it before exploding with some pretty neat effects. Aside from the 
 new zoom features on a couple of the weapons dont expect any kind of alternate fire modes. Quake 
 4 keeps things simple. 
  
  Another element of simplicity comes in the form of the enemy AI. Almost every type of enemy from 
 the lowliest grunt to the mightiest berserker will charge straight at you on sight. Youll find 
 yourself employing a strategy of firing at them as they charge, walking backwards while firing, 
 and strafing occasionally if they manage to live long enough to get close to you. Once in a while 
 theyll side step in an attempt to avoid fire, but it almost seems scripted for them to do it after 
 a couple of steps. One nod towards the AI is that the Strogg have great aim  sometimes almost 
 too good. Later on in the game youll come across a new type of enemy thats smart enough to take 
 cover, though unfortunately for them, theyre not smart enough to know that a grenade has landed 
 right next to them while in hiding. The Strogg come in a number of different varieties with each 
 type more gruesome than the next. You have your standard light grunts, larger armored grunts equipped 
 with rail guns and energy shields, Strogg that resemble dogs that spawn enemies around them, and 
 scientists that attack with buzz saws just to name a few. Every new mission seems to yield a new 
 type disastrous mesh of living tissue and mechanical implants for you to take out as well as increased 
 numbers of enemies for you to deal with. The brunt of the difficulty doesnt stem from one type 
 of enemy or boss, but from dealing with multiple enemies at a time which usually consist of one 
 large enemy charging at you while smaller baddies fill you with holes as you try to dodge. 
  
  In an attempt to break up the monotony of corridor crawls, youll find an occasional level 
 where youll get to take control of a vehicle and do battle outdoors. Early in the game youll 
 take control of a hover tank and blast through anything that stands in your way. Later on youll 
 gain control of a mech and a monorail equipped with a turret. None of these stages offer any real 
 challenge thanks in part to two constantly recharging shields, but they at least manage to be enjoyable.
 
  
  While the single player campaign can be pretty lengthy, estimated to about 12-15 hours depending 
 on how much you want to explore and admire the scenery, it should act as some sort of consolation 
 prize to the rehashed multiplayer mode. As mentioned earlier, multiplayer in Quake 4 is a visually 
 updated version of Quake 3 in almost every respect complete with visually updated maps from previous 
 games. The action is what players have come to expect from Quake multiplayer with the action being 
 fast and intense. The standard modes are here like deathmatch, team deathmatch, capture the flag, 
 and one-on-one. While playing multiplayer, you cant help but feel that other games in the genre 
 have all evolved beyond this, and with a 16 player cap, youll be going back to Battlefield 2 in 
 no time. Especially since the brand new vehicles are nowhere to be found in multiplayer. 
  
  The visuals are the centerpiece of Quake 4. If you thought Doom 3 was a technical marvel, Quake 
 4 goes one step beyond. Environments are littered with moving machinery, partially mutilated humans, 
 and other crazy dcor that will make you want to stop everything and take in the scenery on more 
 than one occasion. Characters, both human and not-so-human also look great and are well animated, 
 especially when they collapse realistically against nearby walls, pillars, or garbage. Of course 
 the lighting effects cant go without any mention and are really some of the best seen in a game. 
 If I say anything more Ill either be repeating myself or spoiling the story for you. To make a 
 long and spoiler-filled story short, Quake 4 is a sight to see. 
  
  Quake 4 is almost as good for the ears as it is for the eyes. While there is a sporadic soundtrack 
 present, the majority of the game consists of ambient noise and radio chatter from other squads. 
 This works well in immersing you further into the war between the humans and Strogg especially 
 since theres plenty of context sensitive chatter going on. While theres a lot of variety in what 
 youre hearing, you will get some repeated lines here and there but it doesnt happen often. Youll 
 get different sounds and growls from each type of Strogg you come across, but the problem is that 
 its the same noise every time which gets a little annoying after hearing it fifty times or more 
 during the course of the game. Theres a lot of voice acting through means of cutscenes and while 
 youre in the depths of Strogg strongholds. Every actor voices their part well and youll even 
 find some fairly recognizable voices among the cast thanks to the Hollywood voice talent thats 
 present. All of your weaponry sounds powerful enough and pack an appropriate punch, especially 
 when it comes to the shotgun and nailgun. Some of the sounds do seem like they were borrowed from 
 Doom, but thats only nitpicking. 
  
  There is a good amount of single-player content available here to warrant a purchase, though fans 
 of multiplayer may want to try something else to satisfy their bloodlust. In the end Quake 4 manages 
 to be a visually impressive, yet straightforward FPS that seems as far ahead of the times as it 
 is behind them.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: britneyyy
Rating: 4.8
Date: Nov 17, 2005 9:39 am PT
Review:  Who like Fps will play this game too.
  But i have played proffesionally Q III for years and i think that is great mistake creating the 
 sequal .
  after F. E. A. R. and doom and serious sam series this is huge mistake in game developing.
  Idea 
 and boss is copy of Half Life 1 .
  Graphic is only good thing and didn't too hardware demanding as FEAR
  Single player is boring 
 and fast to finish for good FPS gamers.
  Multiplayer nothing new is remake of Q3 even worse .
  The game has you controlling Matthew Kane 
 (who doesn't speak) !!!!!!!!!!!, one of the human space marines taking the fight once again to the 
 alien planet .
  The single player game in Quake IV is much like Quake II
  Not the best FPS single player experience this year.
  That will be it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mumoto
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 15, 2005 6:00 pm PT
Review:  This game looks good from the outside, and it looks like a total 'new' kind of game like everyone 
 expects it to be.
  
  But the graphics look alot like Unreal 2, and the gameplay is like Counterstrike or any other similar 
 FPS-games.
  
  Quake 3 was something you could call 'unique', this game however is a graphic/gameplay rip-off.
 
  
  I hope that Quake 5 (?) will be more unique and also that they put in some jungle or beach types 
 of levels, because dark basements all the time aren't that fun.
  
  In short this game isn't really special, but for some people this game can be pretty good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hittin
Rating: 6.1
Date: Nov 15, 2005 9:39 am PT
Review:  If you love First Person Shooter Games, and you want a new good quality game, you shouldn't get 
 this game, you should be getting Call Of Duty 2 or Half Life 2.
  
  Graphics:::::::::::
  As most of the new first person shooter games are now having excellent graphics, this is just another 
 excellent game at having graphics.
  It uses Doom 3 engine, which hasnt been used in most games.
  The textures, fancy awesome HDR 
 lights, you can interact with alot of stuff just like in half life 2 , but half life 2 engine the 
 source engine is better than Doom 3's engine.
  
  Gameplay:::::::::
  The good and bad points of quake 4. look below
  You are part of the game good 
  The enemies 
 always do the same thing
  attack , sidestep, charge, reload.
  
  Sound::::::::::
  The sound isnt the best, it has some excellent sound scenes, and some bad sound scenes, also when 
 you shoot with weapons it isnt too bad.
  
  You should be getting Half Life 2, Call Of Duty 2, Americas Army [free] or Battlefield 2, not this 
 game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hondje89
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jun 5, 2006 3:23 pm PT
Review:  QUAKE has been a old franchise from the middle 90's, and has been very popular cause of it's great 
 graphics and gore gameplay, but does the same count for it's latest part, QUAKE 4?
  
  QUAKE 4 is about a marine that has to fight some sort of alien world with a lot of marines. It 
 seems like war has been between Earth and the alien world. These aliens are cruel things, that 
 use gore weapons and other guns to kill their enemies, so it's promising that there will be a lot 
 of swinging blood and organs like in the past games.
  
  Gameplay, QUAKE looks a lot like it's older versions. Back then those games were great fun for 
 PC gamers, and very bloody with a lot of violence and gore. Like I told, it's about a marine... 
 again. In the last games it was the same like this, crashing on planet, big ass army of humans, 
 fighting alien scum, you call fill in the rest. So that's kinda boring, but now you have some back-up 
 with squad members and other marines, and that's fun. but QUAKE 4 could use some new paint. Just 
 like the multiplayer, that just might be the worst part of QUAKE 4. It's the most baddest multiplayer 
 I've ever seen in a FPS game with DOOM 3. It has vehicles though, but that just doesn't fit in 
 QUAKE 4, and the gametypes are also very old and uninspired.
  
  Graphics are perfect... to a lot of people yes. It has , like most of you know, the DOOM 3 engine, 
 and you can see that clearly, only, DOOM 3 never had a real out-side fight cause it was on Mars, 
 so no oxygen. But, in QUAKE 4 there are some outside battles you'll have to face... you ight think 
 by now what I'm going to say. Yes, the envirement looks perfect, but if you look further then you 
 can walk, it will all be 2D, it looks like it has been just a drawboard, and that's normally not 
 that annoying, but it is here, it looks too damn fake.
  
  Sound, well, the sound is just great. Not less, not more. There isn't any viriation in the gun 
 sounds, but the explosions sounds are well done, and so are the gun sounds, even with out there 
 uninspired sounds.
  
  Value, well, this game is too uninspired. We don't live anymore in the 90's when shooters came 
 to life. We live in the year 2005, shooters are almost like real war. QUAKE 4 looks too much like 
 it's older version and too much like DOOM 3.
  
  Tilt, QUAKE 4 can be fun of course, it's only uninspired crap sometimes. It's looks too much like 
 it's older versions and DOOM 3. Just uninspired, sadley, it could have been much better then this.
 
  
  Good points
  
  +QUAKE returned.
  +Superb graphics.
  +Nice gun fights.
  +Sweet looking enemies.
  +Nice looking weapons.
  
  Bad points
  
  -Lame AI.
  -Lame storyline.
 
  -Never gets hard.
  -Multiplayer doesn't feel needed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikaren
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 13, 2005 7:45 pm PT
Review:  this game totally rocks, there; s nothing better than a FPS game than this, much better than DOOM3, 
 theres finally a light which you don't need to switch to anymore, how convenient is that!!!!!! 
 and the outside parts of quake 4 is absolutely just like a real place!!!!
  
  this game is worth over its value, and the graphics are just amazing nothing better than it.
 
  
  the multiplayer really good too, featuring my favourite map the longest yard, i espically when 
 i stay at the top of the quad damage and rail anybody that tries to come up hahaha quite it laugh 
 it was.
  
  overall quake 4 is worth the wait to play, multplayer is endless fun, and the single compaign is 
 excellent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wald1987
Rating: 4.3
Date: Nov 13, 2005 2:42 pm PT
Review:  Quite possibly the most mind numbingly boring thing ever created. Good graphics tho eh! When i 
 play i just think doom 3. Its EXACTLY the same. just new weapons, no atmosphere and piss poor A. I. 
 if you want a real game get F. E. A. R. Now THAT is an experience like no other. The must spend so 
 long making games like quake and doom but do they ever even play the damn thing? dont they realise 
 what they have done? hundreds of thousands of pounds wasted probably. anyway, ive played worse 
 games.
  I did actually think doom3 was better because it had a bit more of a scary atmosphere, this game 
 has no atmosphere!! i cant stand running around blasting aliens for no reason. i just completed 
 splinter cell chaos theory and its about a million times more fun. end of.   
::::::

::::::
UserName: NeoJedi
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 12, 2005 11:24 am PT
Review:  Quake has been around for as long as I can remember. I played the first game until my eyes started 
 to bleed and I did the same for the second. Now Quake 4 comes out, with better graphics, etc, etc... 
 It is still one of the best shooters out there, but the multi-player feels like a very bad flashback.
 
  
  Of course, we have to start off with the graphics. This game uses the Doom 3 engine, and boy does 
 it use it good. The lighting, the bump mapping, the shadowing... everything is there and done perfectly. 
 The details on the characters (human and otherwise) are incredible. 
  The sound is on par with what you'd expect from a shooter, the guns sound powerful and the voice 
 acting is very good.
  The gameplay is pretty good, but I was kind of iffy about the whole "get in a vehicule and shoot 
 stuff" sections of the game, I feel they could've been better and longer.
  The story is well driven and is fairly good compared to other shooters that came out recently (eg 
 : Doom 3) .
  
  The one thing that bugs me from this game, and thus prevents it from being awesome, is it's multiplayer. 
 I feel like I'm back in the late 90's again when I play it. The maps are tasteless and boring. 
 The multiplayer just "feels" wrong in some way, like they just slapped the thing together, put 
 a fresh coat of paint on it (graphics) and put it in the game. Whatever you do, do NOT buy this 
 game for it's multiplayer.
  
  All in all, Quake 4 is a great single player shooter with a great story and awesome graphics. But 
 steer clear of the multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jacoby_tunta
Rating: 6.2
Date: Nov 12, 2005 7:27 am PT
Review:  not bad for a little fun ... thats all
  hardware requierments are high so if u have a slow machine dont try playing it... multyplayer sux, 
 single is good because of the team work and stuff.
  the only thing that is nice is graphics.. but since that 80% is in the dark.. u cant see much.
 
  to me its just like some doom3 expanion pack with a little different story,
  sound is very anoying and sux. 
  i smell in the air quake 4 team arena.
  a u kurac jebeni gamespot 
 aa picku materinu jebo ih 100 reci minimum i kurac..
  jebem ti mater nemozes da napises lepo jednu recenicu nego moras da se smaras i pises 100 reci 
 u picku materinu 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deschain
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 11, 2005 7:48 pm PT
Review:  A big question as Quake 4 launched in the wake of F. E. A. R. was which one was the better game. The 
 answer to that question depends a lot one what style of FPS you prefer. Do you want to have a lot 
 of weapons at your disposal? Do you want to operate vehicles and heavy guns? Do you prefer science 
 fiction over psychological horror? Then Quake 4 is your game.
  
  Don't get me wrong - in many ways I preferred F. E. A. R., but Q4 was a great game. The Doom 3 engine 
 worked well and seemed slightly more polished. The AI, the enemy but especially your allies, worked 
 very well. Quake 2 had been one of my favorite games of the past, and Quake 4 did the series proud. 
 In many ways the shotgun was the defining weapon of the Doom series, so the grenade launcher has 
 been the trademark of the Quake series. This title is no exception. While not an every enemy weapon, 
 it is useful beyond expectation. 
  
  Critics talk about the fact that there is nothing new here, but not every game will be innovative. 
 Quake 4 has solid gameplay, a wide range of useful weapons, and enough variety to be consistently 
 interesting. If you enjoy the Quake (or Doom) series, Quake 4 is definitely worth your time (and 
 money) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CerpinTaxt85
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 11, 2005 1:10 am PT
Review:  This game has a strong single player campaign, but the multiplayer aspect just isn't there like 
 Quake 3 Arena. The single player was somewhat easy but a little challenging at times. Some of the 
 new guns that were added were pretty much useless at times. You could easily get through the game 
 with the machinegun and shotgun.
  
  The graphics in this game are amazing if you have a good system to run it. From the details on 
 the guns, to the environments and shading. 
  
  I would recommend this game to the avid FPS player. I couldn't pass up the opportunity to own this 
 game when i read that it was being released, being that i was a big fan of Quake 3 Arena. But if 
 your looking for an all around, amazing, intense FPS game... go with F. E. A. R. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: step2ice
Rating: 4.5
Date: Nov 10, 2005 7:43 am PT
Review:  First I have to say that the Doom3 engine is nothing but a design failiure.
  It can't render huge areas without losing quality and details, it has huge and often occuring loading 
 times, it can't render as much enemys as you want to see, killed enemys will insatntly turn to 
 dust. thus you won't be able to see the gory aftermath of a fight nor will you get any feedback 
 from a intense fight that way.
  The normal- and bumpmapping effects are overdone and do look goofy.
  IMHO this engine is made 
 for fancy looking screenshots not for designing games.
  
  Now for Quake 4 in particular.
  The game suffers from the exact same problems as Doom 3 did and more.
  Heavy scripting, a small 
 area of action, that small enemy amount and that "instant disapear of dead enemies" problem mentioned 
 above and so on.
  
  The first mission is already boring. You will find yourself in a world where everything gets trigerred 
 so obviously as you approach it that it isn't even funny anymore.
  The peak is the level on the mothership Hannibal where you have to listen to a ton of uninteresting 
 conversations while running through the whole ship to get to the briefing room. Hello... is it 
 1998 again?
  Also the scripting, and I can't mention that part often enough, it's ridiculous.
  Then the parts 
 of the game where you control a vehicle. They feel more like a rushed mod then a professional designed 
 game. And they are completely out of place.
  The weapons aren't interesting either. Some are ok, like the MG and the shotgun and some make no 
 sense like the Nailgun. Some are boring, like the rail gun.
  I also asked myself why a marine gears up for a mission by picking up weapons from other marines 
 that are on the mothership. And then at the armory gets an upgrademag for the machinegun. (You 
 are a nice marine so your MG can carry 20 more shots now) .... yeah, right.
  But having a weapon ugrade as a space marine makes no sense in first place. There is many design 
 nonsense like this in the game which make it even harder to get into it.
  By talking of the marines, you won't be able to run in this game. But there is a nice walk button 
 which makes things even slower.
  Now add the poor gameplay in general plus the huge and often loading times and you're ready to 
 deinstall.
  
  To keep it short, this isn't Quake the old way, this isn't Quake the new way.
  This is Quake 
 going down the drain.
  
  Sorry, but no candy for Ravensoftware here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: royboy2100
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 10, 2005 1:45 am PT
Review:  After Doom 3, Quake IV does what it does best, gives us a cool single player game that continues 
 after Quake II. 
  
  The game takes place right after Quake II so if you haven't been catching up with the storyline, 
 it probably wouldn't matter since Quake II had a lukewarm storyline, it was not until Raven saw 
 it was very important to have one did a Quake game finally had at least a paragraph story. The 
 game plays out almost like a Medal of Honor sci-fi setting where you're almost never alone in a 
 mission. The only thing missing is unfortunately the squad mates you meet don't get develop enough 
 that you know the person well enough. Another addition to the game is the vehicles although we've 
 seen it in Half Life 2. The climax of the game however was a big mistake. Raven shouldn't have 
 revealed that your character in the game gets turn into a Strogg. And even if you do, we would 
 expect to become the brute with a chain gun, grenade launcher and a missile launcher on the back. 
 What we get is just is an extra 25 hit point and walk a tad faster. I think the game would have 
 been more interesting if Raven didn't reveal anything but the effects was really cool when you 
 see your legs sliced off. 
  
  Graphic wise, the game uses the Doom 3 engine and it looks real great except on certain outdoor 
 level. The background in the outdoor levels look like a matte painting straight from the old movies 
 which I think shows the limits of the Doom 3 engine. The indoors, character models, weapons, vehicles 
 and buildings really do shine real great. 
  
  Sound and music, looks like IDSoftware has abandon the heavy rock idustrial music for a music setting 
 that fits with the game. Voice over was really well done too.
  
  If there was one thing disappointing about Quake IV, the last couple of level seemed rushed. It 
 was almost like going back to the old Quake game where you'll get certain boss level at key points. 
 Storywise, the part where your character gets turn into a Strogg, Raven should have just kept it 
 quiet because that was the theme that made Quake IV shine. Other then that, this game is really 
 worth it for the single player as I'm more of a single player. Its a good game, but not great unfortunately. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NitroDriven
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 9, 2005 10:57 pm PT
Review:  The Quake series never strayed too far off the basic FPS formula the first one invented. Quake 
 4 has no reason to do so, nor does it need one.
  
  So, what does Quake 4 have to offer? Nothing but a brutal, fast-paced, no holds barred, adrenaline-pumping, 
 shoot-em-up festival that will keep you on your toes and your eyeballs popped from beginning to 
 end. Done to death? Yes. Any new strides this time around? Nothing worth mentioning. All that counts 
 is that Quake 4 is extremely intense and a BUTTLOAD of fun. A hell of a rollercoaster from beginning 
 to end. Even though it's not very long, I wouldn't mind if it took 50 hours to finish it up.
  
  Behind the insanely good looks is the very heart and soul of FPS in it's purest, simplest, 
 and most unadulterated form. Games like this are very rare, and downright underestimated. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: daniel1919
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 9, 2005 12:41 pm PT
Review:  Quake 4's gameplay hasn't changed and if you're looking for a fun lively gun ho shooting game this 
 is it. There is nothing wrong with that. It can be nice break from a serious first person shooter.
 
  If it were a film it would be your typical blockbuster action film with some enjoyable moments 
 and a predictable story but hey it's still fun to see. Just like these films this game won't be 
 remebered in the future. So I would say buy it if there isn't anything else out there you want. 
 Everything else is bog standard. The mutliplayer is just the Quake 3 with better graphics, literally.
 
  The only other thing to mention is that the graphics are pretty nice and they use the Doom 3 engine. 
 When first look at it you will think that this what this engine should have been used for. The 
 graphics looks nice with all these marines trying to kick ass but you will get annoyed with the 
 frames per second going all over the place. I have a good pc and I have fiddled with the settings 
 and no matter what I do the FPS always goes the same way. When your walking around the FPS stays 
 at 60 but when you go into firefights it goes bellow 25 and so stutters. I have tried turn on and 
 off indivual settings to see what could cause it ,but it makes no difference. Updating graphics 
 and sound drivers didn't change a thing either. Also when you change some settings they don't change 
 until you restart the game because of the Doom engine. This adds to the annoyance.
  This would be enjoyable if the franes per second would not go all over the place and slow when 
 they are are most needed. What is the point in playing a game when you are constantly messing with 
 settings and the game still stutters? 
  This what makes PCs as gaming platforms undiserbale sometimes no matter how good your system is.
 
  Hopely for you it's just me who is having this problem or that they bring out a patch.
  
  Like I say buy it if your looking for some good old classic fun. This maybe what Doom 3 should 
 have been in first place. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: christophersdin
Rating: 6.8
Date: Nov 8, 2005 3:28 pm PT
Review:  really this game is almost like a carbon copy of quake 3, while the single player has upgraded 
 graphics the multiplayer has much to be left desired. This is by far one of the more dissapointing 
 releases of the franchise. The one thing that i feel when i play this game is have i played this 
 before. Its quake so there are the diehards but if your not then i dont recomend buying this title. 
 If you have the 50 bucks use it to take your girlfriend out to a thai restraunt it will be more 
 satisfying and there will be benifits (if you know what i mean) .
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: EyalTemp
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 8, 2005 9:17 am PT
Review:  After reading Gamespot's review I was kind off looking forward to play Quake4 even though I had 
 serious douts regarding how good a dumb shooter like Quake can be; three words sumarize it all 
 - waste of time.
  The game is very old:
  it is old fasioned in terms of style - you just arm yourself to the teath and shoot anything you 
 can shoot until it stops moving, no need to think. 
  It has old graphics and horible sound in comparison to latest games like f. e. a. r. or half life 2.
 
  It feels like old news - been there, done that, had enough of it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: powergamerindia
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 8, 2005 4:14 am PT
Review:  Another Quake is released to scare your motherboard out of the CPU. The game features great graphics, 
 very high quality sound and an improved AI and gameplay.
  The single player is a great way to fight the new and more dangerious creatures. The game could 
 be one of the best looking game of the year but the gameplay fails to hit the top mark.
  The single player is good but the multiplayer again is built with the outline of Quake 3. 16 players 
 can join game over the internet to enjoy the multiplayer. The multiplayer game engin is same as 
 Doom 3. Multiplayer fans in India will be dissapointed with this game because it requires hi-speed 
 internet connections. The LAN multiplayer segment in India is already over flooded with other games 
 like Doom 3, Counter Strike series and regnork.
  There are new tanks in the game. the movement of the them is simpler than earlier. Now the focus 
 is more on combat and not on dificulty for the gamers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rockthegod
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 7, 2005 11:37 am PT
Review:  I was earnestly waiting for this game to be available in India and once I got my hands on to it, 
 there was no stopping till the end. I played for 10 hours continuously to completion and I was 
 really overwhelmed. All the aspects of the game is awesum to say the least. A compelling storyline, 
 tremendously amazing graphics coupled with terrific weapons and thrilling-chilling background sound. 
 
  
  I lack words really to describe this amazing game. An excellent use and modification of the Doom 
 3 Engine, the developers have done an excellent work. 
  
  The game would have been one of the perfect games in FPS history if only the multiplayer lived 
 up to its hype. As a single player mission, the game is TOTALLY PERFECT !!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DJDarkViper
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 7, 2005 10:39 am PT
Review:  First of all, dont get me wrong, im a big fan of the Doom series and Doom3 didn't change my opinion 
 in the slightest, its a very polished well made game. Though it was missing something that i yerned 
 for and i could not put my finger on what was missing.
  
  Then i played Quake4. And that hole was filled. Now there can be at least 4-5 enemies on screen 
 at once and they all take a little bit of time to kill, and all of the battles were lots of fun. 
 
  
  The graphics while amazing and polished, feel a bit uninspired though. The enemies all look and 
 feel generically the same and "for the love of god, which gun am i holding now? i think this one 
 looks like the railgun *boom* oh its a rocket launcher, thats right." a quote i have stated many 
 times over. Now i am very good at distinguishing weapons, i could be able to show you the differenced 
 between a USP and a USP Elite in terms of looks, but i always seem to have to figure out which 
 weapon im holding by looking at the ammo symbole. And thats not right. 
  
  However for the most part, it plays, i think, exactly how ID wanted Quake2. Its fast, its fun, 
 the action is nice and intense at moments, and your always with a squad to help you out. 
  
  The game plays just like Quake2, same controls, which was very nice to come back to after all 
 of these years.
  
  The multiplayer was a pretty fun romp nostalgic feeling of Quake3. Oh wait, it IS quake3. And if 
 memory serves, i was really good at Quake2 multiplayer, not Quake3. So i tend to get pwned even 
 though people just bought the game, and its because they played Quake3 since its release. However, 
 nothing is funner than replaying The Edge (q2dm1) or better known in Quake4 as 'Over the Edge (q4dm7) ', 
 with an old fragging buddy way back from Quake2. Though sadly the entire outdoor area was replaced 
 with some indoor thing. Kind of dissapointing, and ill bet its because of the 'pool' of water that 
 was in the original. Its replaced with a jump pad now.
  
  And if theres something i always hated in most FPS games these days, its the sound design. No guns 
 ever sound like they should do damage and id be jumpier with a capgun around. In Quake4 however, 
 the machiengun sounds dangerous, and gauntlet has a nice whirrrrrrrrring noise, and all of the 
 guns feel as powerful as they did before (and jsut as deadly) and thanks Raven for bringing back 
 gibbing :D
  
  To boil it down: Fast, Furious, Fun, Unforgiving, and a highly optimized engine that really pushes 
 itself. Its an excellent buy, Especially if you grab the Special Edition DVD. I dont know about 
 you but my Quake2 CDs have seen better days, so this was a very welcome surprise to have Quake2 
 and all expansions on the DVD as well. 
  
  AMD Athlon XP 2600+ 1.9GHz
  ATi Radeon x700
  512MB DDR Kingston RAM (DuelChannel) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hack_er
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 7, 2005 7:43 am PT
Review:  Quake IV is the one of the most anticipated games of the year, the next in a line of games that 
 has a reputation for technological innovation and fast-action multiplayer. This current addition 
 doesn't make as many technological strides, as it uses the Doom 3 engine to power it. The game 
 still looks and plays great, but don't expect this game to push the bar the way its predecessors 
 did. Quake IV's single player campaign is very exciting and will have you running all over the 
 Strogg homeworld and deep inside their fortified bases. Not only that, but you will occasionally 
 have teammates fighting alongside you. The single player may deliver, but the multiplayer is a 
 little bit disappointing in its lack of innovationg
  
  When it comes right down to it, Quake IV is a fun, quality, straightforward first-person shooter. 
 The game has a decent plot, and the action always keeps you moving with updated mission objectives. 
 Plus, for the first time in a Quake series, you are allowed out into wide-open areas and even get 
 a chance to drive one or two vehicles. There is a significant change that your character goes through 
 midway through the game, but it doesn't impact the gameplay in any way 
::::::

::::::
UserName: biggyterra
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 7, 2005 5:30 am PT
Review:  The single player campaign in Quake 4 is amazing. Lots of suprises here and there. Bosses are great. 
 AI is not bad. Although you cannot tell members of your team to do anything they pretty effective 
 on their own. And a great thing about them is that they don't die unless they are meant to be killed 
 in a certain way or scenario. 
  Graphically it is better than Doom3 and requires a slightly faster computer to run at high resolutions. 
 I played it at 1280x1024 on high quality with all avanced options on. It was spectacular. However 
 make sure you have at least 1GB RAM to run smoothely. Otherwise you will have plenty of hiccups 
 and slowdowns during games.
  Sound is also great with OpenAL enabled. Weapons sound powerful and realistic.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RFNeo
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 7, 2005 5:16 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: True, the Doom 3 engine is not perfect and you will either hate it or love it. The AI 
 is not that great, specially compared to games like F. E. A. R. Still, Quake 4 offers what any FPS 
 should: lots of action and lots of fun. The voice acting is great and I love all the in betweens 
 from one level to the next. It gives you a chance to stroll through base camp and chat with the 
 different members of your squad as well as the other squads. Weapons are great and the only flaw 
 I find, its the fact that because the AI is not that great, you will find the gameplay kind of 
 repetitive specially towards the third part of the game.
  
  Graphics: Here is where the game really excels. Even the people that do not like the Doom 3 engine 
 admit it has the best graphics yet. True, you will need a powerful PC to play it at its full glory; 
 but if you do have that PC as I have, you are in for a treat. The level design in Quake 4 is simply 
 amazing. The detail is incredible and the interactivity of all your surroundings play an important 
 part on the game experience. Where games like F. E. A. R. fail with their repetitive and dull levels, 
 Quake 4 succeeds. The lightning system is unbelievable. Technologically, this game is a work of 
 art. No other game engine comes close to the visuals the Doom 3 engine has to offer.
  
  Sound: Well, the sound effects in Quake 4 and the soundtrack are good but nothing great. Its not 
 something you will remember the game by, but still they are not bad at all. We could say they are 
 average.
  
  Value: Well, it will all depend on what kind of gamer you are. If you are only going to play this 
 game single player, then perhaps this will not be the best value you will find. The campaign is 
 as long as the ones on games like Half Life 2 or F. E. A. R. You can finish the game more or less 
 in 12 hours. Of course, if you are going to play this game multiplayer, then you will be back to 
 play it for months, if not years to come. Multiplayer is not for everybody though. Its old school 
 pure Quake 3. Not for the CS: Source, BF2 or Call of Duty fans. 
  
  Tilt: I am glad Quake is back with a vengeance. I just hope there will be more Quake games to come 
 and more sci-fi first person shooters with the same quality of this one.
  
  Have fun playing this game and remember. Dont even bother to buy this game if you hate the Doom 
 3 engine.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nuseir
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 7, 2005 5:08 am PT
Review:  this is a an excellent game, I haven't had so huch fun in months, the single player is so much fun, and 
 game play is great so why the 7 I don't know, I wasn't going to buy this game at first but thank 
 god I did, It is a lot more fun than doom, so many machines to ride and shoot with, reminded me of 
 HALO. The graphics are amazing but you need 1gb of ram and a minimum 256 6600 graghic card to see 
 it, which is contrary to doom, which worked well on lesser cards, yet I won't complain because I 
 loved the game so much I upgraded my pc to play it and enjoy it to the fullist and Iam glad I did, so 
 play it ,you will thank me, as for the multiplayer, I don't know sinse I never play this type due 
 to economic reasons. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SixSigma1978
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 7, 2005 12:31 am PT
Review:  Just as an FYI, I HATE FPS Multiplayer so my review is completely biased towards the single player 
 experience. To sum it up : OMG. Its Call of Duty on an Alien World. Strip nazis to a Tissue-Machinery 
 Monstrosity, throw in a machine gun and put in sufficient "OHHH **** Where did that THING come 
 FROM???" scariness and uve got urself a worthy game @ ur hands.
  
  I haven't completed the game, but I felt its worth writing a review as a spectator AND a blown-away 
 Single Player afficionado.
  
  Regardless to say, the entire scope of the game, while not entirely epic, is supremely satisfying. 
 Especially the outdoor battle sequences... reminds u of OMAHA landing in its entirety. 
  
  Go get this game people, I guarantee you, you wont regret it the experience... Am  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: THBulletcrazy
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 6, 2005 10:43 am PT
Review:  Gamespot gave doom 3 an 8.5, and gives quake 4 an 8.0
  I disagree with this score as quake 4 is a much better game.
  Now, though I am a big fan of ID 
 games, I'm also a very critical and objective gamer. I more or less agreed with the doom 3 score 
 that gmaespot presented, much moresow now that I have played quake 4 and seen what that engine 
 can do. Franckly, to say that doom 3 is a better game would be outright wrong. Quake 4 trumps it 
 in every category, including multiplayer, and delivers one of the best single player experiences 
 ever.
  The graphics are downright mindblowing especially in the end levels. I won't give anything away, 
 but I will say that there is an incredibly epic assault on the strogg nexus, with some truly awesome 
 and scary boss battles. Yes the gameplay is simplistic, but it is a huge improvement over doom 
 3, and franckly I don't mind a non complex shooter once in a while. The vechile sections are fun, 
 if a bit short , adn the squad combat is really nice. Not since half life 2 have I felt that feeling 
 of awe and dread, where I and 3 or 4 squad members are alone in the heart of enemy territory, chatting 
 about the hugeness of the area. This game deserves a 9.0, and thats exactly what I give it. I highly 
 recommend it, and I think that gamespot should change its score, because this game trumps doom 
 3 in every possible regard. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thewoodalls202
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 6, 2005 7:57 am PT
Review:  This is just a simple copy of Doom 3 with nothing short of ba grphics (when close up to sopmething, 
 ie. a wall, the floor) No story line. Just a quick shooter that I got bored with after 20 minutes. 
 Far Cry, F. E. A. R. and games like Half-Life 2 should be copied. Not Doom 3. Quake might get your 
 andreneline for about 15 mintes but then the repetiveness takes over and you'll be wishing you 
 never downloaded it with bittorrent or heaven's forbid, paid for it.
  
  Long of short, I'll stick to adventure style FPS's that read a good book. That's gets me to finish 
 a game. See what happens next. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zink
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 5, 2005 6:08 pm PT
Review:  this game has everything the graphics and the storyline. the best part of this game has to be the 
 shooting the way you can slow down time and just beat the % out of them is great. but i was 
 kind of mad because of the small amount of weopans to choose from... my weopons that i carry on 
 me was the shotgun the asp rifle and the rpl sub-machine gun. i also like the the grenades its 
 awesome when thrown. and i also dont like how the game is kind of short but i keep playing it over 
 and over. the ending of it is also great . if you dont have this game i reccomend that you go and 
 BUY THIS GAME you wont be dissapointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cricketboy2238
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 5, 2005 1:59 pm PT
Review:  Quake 4 is a relatively old-school, yet highly entertaining first-person shooter with production 
 values that rival that of big budget films. Why waste $7 + Beverages on the Doom movie for roughly 
 two hours of entertainment when for $50 you can buy Quake 4? That will keep you entertained for 
 about 9 hours, and entertain is something the Doom movie just doesnt do. I cant find any reason 
 you shouldnt own this amazing shooter.
  
  I remember Quake 3: Arena as my first venture into PC gaming. I dont remember why I bought it, 
 but I found it at a huge mall here in the Detroit area and felt like buying it. No real inclination 
 other than a sporadic impulse, but there you go. Interestingly enough, I bought Unreal Tournament 
 and Quake 3 Arena on the same day, but had no previous idea of what either of the two games are 
 about. It turns out that they were two of the biggest multiplayer games ever. I hadnt played 
 a PC game since Doom on my Intel 486 computer. This random impulse turned out to be a great decision.
 
  While I thoroughly enjoyed Unreal Tournament and put in more than my fair share of spending the 
 whole day doing absolutely nothing but play, I was always partial to Quake 3 Arena, possibly because 
 of its similarities to Doom. Whatever it was, it worked on me and I liked it. Back when I got it 
 I had dial-up so was limited to playing with bots, but it was obviously a multiplayer game. When 
 I did finally get cable, I plunged into multiplayer and was hopelessly addicted. This did the job 
 of defining what Quake was all about for me. Quake 4 is a rather unexpected change, yet one I accept 
 wholly. Single player games havent gotten much attention from me since Quake 3 Arena and Counter-Strike, 
 but Call of Duty changed that dramatically. Ive now taken more interest in the single player, 
 but multiplayer is still a big factor. This might explain why I so easily embrace Quake 4 as a 
 successor.
  
  I try to see games as their own game; not a sequel like Quake 4 actually is. I think a problem 
 with sequels is that theres unprecedented hype. A game cant be particularly revolutionary without 
 innovation on some level, but if you change it too much its not a true sequel. At the same time, 
 if you simply continue the story without dramatically changing the game play, you find yourself 
 staring at an angry fan-base. Half-Life 2 didnt receive all praise. Many people thought it lacked 
 real innovation and wasnt anything spectacular. I dont think this is because its a bad game, 
 but because its a sequel. If you look at Half-Life 2 alone, theres really nothing any better. 
 Take F. E. A. R. for example. Massive critical acclaim while I didnt find anything particularly gripping 
 about it. It was just like a lot of other first person shooters. I personally prefer Quake 4, but 
 most of the reviews disagree with one common complaint: Quake 4 is NOT Quake 3. For this reason, 
 Im reviewing Quake 4 as its own game, and not raising standards just because its a sequel. So 
 does it live up to the reputation of quality and entertainment set by the preceding Quakes? Quite.
 
  
  The most important component of a massive single player game is the storyline. After Half-Life 
 revolutionized the FPS with its fast paced, yet story driven gameplay, you really cant make a 
 single player first person shooter without a good story, and Quake 4 delivers all aces in this 
 category. I dont want to reveal any details about the game, so Ill leave this one off by saying 
 that its a fairly well thought out story, and gripping. You cant really tell youre fighting 
 a war as there arent particularly huge battles, so it really feels like youre fighting in the 
 same small area the whole time; however the story is indeed about a war that youre just one marine 
 in. Unfortunately, this is one of those games that put you in supermans shoes; your teammates 
 can barely kill a Strogg, but you down countless Strogg soldiers throughout the game. 
  
  The other marines you encounter in the game a pretty cool. When you fight alongside them theyre 
 actually quite useful. In most games, they leave all of the shooting to you while your teammates 
 make a sad attempt at helping you. Your teammates will actually kill enemies if you give them enough 
 time, but unfortunately, thats quite a lot of time. They also can take a lot of damage. Sometimes, 
 it actually seems like they take more damage than you do. The voice acting for them is really well 
 done, however I noticed that in battle when your teammates yell out, maybe complimenting your skill 
 or exclaiming how much they just kicked, that they sometimes repeat the same line. I only noticed 
 it in two situations, but it took away the suspension of disbelief for a moment. 
  
  The graphics are the best Ive ever seen, and the game ran extremely smooth. There were some moments 
 of choppiness, but for how good the game looks, Im surprised it doesnt run much worse. The stability 
 of the game is very good. I didnt have a single problem on my very clean machine, which means 
 that if you have problems with crashing, its probably your own fault. Get an Antivirus or Antispyware 
 to keep yourself free of boogers bogging down your system and causing errors.
  
  The sound isnt anything special, which isnt a bad thing. Most games feature ample surround these 
 days. Since it uses the latest version of the Doom 3 engine, it supports EAX, which was a great 
 addition to Doom 3, but I didnt notice the drastic difference in Quake 4. Doom 3s sound was much 
 more realistic with the introduction of EAX to the engine, but Quake 4 just sounds average.
  
  The gameplay is very old school in a really cool way. It doesnt feel dated like most reviews 
 claim. Its fun just to have one of these cool guns in your hand. Most of the weapons from Quake 
 3 Arena are in Quake 4, and theyre just as much fun now as they were way back then. The railgun 
 and nailgun have some extra life added to them as you get cool upgrades throughout the game. The 
 gun that is the most fun to use is the Dark Matter Gun. Its the games super-weapon, and fits the 
 role very well. Its cool to watch a small black-hole travel down the isle, dragging all of your 
 enemies into it and then exploding.
  
  And now for the most controversial subject: the multiplayer. It is essentially a port of Quake 
 3 with the Quake 4 weapons. It feels a little different from Quake 3 Arena, obviously, but its 
 a pretty solid game and if you missed out on Quake 3 Arena, theres a lot of fun to be had here. 
 Its not the driving force behind the game, but having one of the finest multiplayer games built 
 into it works very well. Even if its nothing special, its still fun to play after all these years. 
 One of my favorite maps from Quake 3 has been brought over, so fans of Quake 3 will enjoy that 
 one.
  
  Overall, Quake 4 is a great shooter. The single player feels like a big-budget films with voice 
 talent to match. The story is interesting, the gameplay is good, and the strogg are ample enemies, 
 even if theyre a bit dumb at times. Some characters make recurring appearances throughout the 
 game so theres some familiarity, and the ending of the game is pretty satisfying. If you just 
 like first person shooters in general, then Quake 4 is sure to not disappoint. After reading the 
 reviews on various websites, I expected a letdown, but Quake 4 ended up being the finest single 
 player shooter Ive played this year with a multiplayer for the nostalgic and those new to PC gaming. 
 All things considered, Quake 4 is a great game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: il_moro
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 5, 2005 12:54 pm PT
Review:  There was a lot of conversation about how this really wouldn't be anything other than "Doom 3" 
 in a different package. At first sight (and play) I was worried that would be all it was. But I 
 was surprised after giving it a little time how much I got into it. What was missing  and a welcome 
 omission from my perspective  was the constant claustrophibic feeling that comes with shotgun-crawling 
 down endless hallways in the dark and waiting for something scary to happen. "Quake 4" is more 
 about action than atmosphere. For my video game dollar, that's worth more right now. It's not that 
 I don't enjoy atmosphere, but "Doom 3" was the forerunner in creating the mood and worked well 
 in that regard. I just lost interest after too many hours of being alone in the dark. With "Quake 
 4" it feels like a more complete package.
  
  I will say that the one thing that really disappointed me was the missing "Quake 3 - Area" Bot 
 Deathmatches. I often don't want to go online for DM gameplay, and "Quake 3" always allowed me 
 to get my fill. Plus the number of third party maps and bot skins have always been a treat to try 
 out. Nothing like that as far as I can tell with "Quake 4". Maybe there'll be some kind of way 
 to set up a bot server here at home for some fun... but I'm not holding my breath.
  
  A few more minor things: the graphics only slightly let me down with the scary eyes and mouths 
 on the human soldiers (they even glow in the dark  eerie) and there was one extremeyl gruesome 
 sequence in the middle ( I won't spoil it) when everything kind of changes that I really wish I 
 could've skipped through. I didn't see "Saw II" and am not all that interested in what it looks 
 like when... well, you'll see once you play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: magusat999
Rating: 4
Date: Nov 4, 2005 3:20 am PT
Review:  Quake 4 didn't quite make the impression it should have. Coming from a 
  venerable background, from a series that is so popular that people have tournaments and some have 
 even gotten rich playing competitions of Quake games; coming off the heels of the respectable but 
 not so great Doom 3 (and using the same engine) ... I was expecting a game that would blow me away. 
 After finishing it I felt more blown off than away.
  
  First off, this is the first Quake that I will never play again. I went through, played the lame-ass 
 storyline, and there is nothing else. My Playstation Console has games on it I will play again 
 - even my old NES has games that I will play again! These new developers need to get it right and 
 use some of the massive storage, and powerful resources on PC systems out there for more than just 
 pretty pictures... Note that I said "MORE THAN JUST" not "INSTEAD OF" I'm sure we can squeeze in 
 pretty pictures AND great gameplay on a DVD or two of game installations. But it's more than that 
 - it's the writing as well. Even if it were a "one time story", if it were well written it could 
 be played again. Quake 4 is the same old tale we've seen time and boring time again. It's a long, 
 laborious saw with not much else to do except dolefully follow along until you reach the end - 
 what a way to have fun.
  
  After the game is over, you drop back to the front - maybe I missed something but I didn't catch 
 any special modes or rewards for completing the game... or maybe I just couldn't care less. The 
 ending was such a suck that who really cares after that. The game has NO REPLAY VALUE WHATSOEVER. 
 Maybe online players are having fun blasting away at each other, but the Single-Player mode is 
 just that; one mode, one story, and one time play.
  
  Oh yes, one of the things that's being touted is that it uses the "Doom 3 engine"... well it looks 
 pretty, and just like Doom 3 you need a high end system to know that. My system is borderline so 
 to me things looked ok except for the characters. I always thought the characters to be one of 
 the most important asset in any game - but these characters took a back seat to the environments. 
 The backgrounds looked great in any resolution, but the characters appearance changed dramatically 
 depending on the level of graphics you chose - from WOW! to stank. It's sad that there was very 
 little tweaking to make Quake 4 have it's own look - it felt more like another expansion pack for 
 Doom 3 than it did an original title. I think I head a ball or two dropping at id headquaters...
 
  
  The gunplay was fun at first but quickly got repetitive. I knew what the enemy was going to do 
 and where he was coming from just about all the time. What was irritating was that no enemy could 
 ever be killed in one shot (except maybe a headshot from one of the high powered guns - and that 
 was still pure luck) . I would think that old enemies would get weaker or your guns would get more 
 powerful - but I couldn't find one gun that could kill an enemy instantly! Well, maybe the Dark 
 Matter gun, but that was hit and miss... After a few hours of play i started noticing that the 
 enemies weren't changing much, sometimes they would change guns, and every once in a while a different 
 monster would show up - but basically the monster collection didn't even compare to say "Unreal: 
 The Awakening". It was a sad and monotonous experience. How did I get through it? I imagined every 
 monster was my wallet-sucking landlord...
  
  Things that I think could have made Quake 4 better: More outside areas, or more varied environments. 
 Bigger game experience. More interactivity with the game items. Free time to explore during the 
 game. Some secrets would have been nice. Ability to lay down and crawl, and to jump through / to 
 crawlable spaces. Hidden killing spots. A better sniper mode (maybe you cannot be seen in the dark, 
 or you can have stealth) . Silent kills. After game rewards for completing certain goals (one of 
 the aspects that kept me playing Lord of the Rings until it was all complete) . Ability to use vehicles 
 and machinery and free places / scenarios / levels to roam with them. Unlockable levels, bosses, 
 bonuses. Speaking of bosses - how about 3 times as many as you had??? And the way the last boss 
 is set up - how about some offensive armor, ala Halo??? Jeesh!
  
  I'm sure people could come up with a million suggestions to improve this game - but basically if 
 it were treated with the importance and respect for it's roots it would have come out a whole lot 
 better. I hope that reviewers will downgrade thier scores to below 6 (that's what i would have 
 given it) so that we don't suffer again when and if Quake 5 comes out. I didn't address all of 
 the aspects of this game - only the most glaring spots and highlights, but don't believe the hype 
 - this game is just that - all hype and no real value at all. Do play it once - but then you'll 
 see it isn't worth much after that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NetPsycho
Rating: 6.3
Date: Nov 3, 2005 5:21 pm PT
Review:  Quake. A product of the golden age of obscure first person shooters from the most popular FPS creators 
 to date (well, them and Epic) . It was a giant step in the right direction for FPS games and have 
 become the staple by which other games are measured. Quake 2 followed nicely behind and was loved 
 all around. Quake 3 became legendary to the degree that it's still being played today, six years 
 after its release. The next step in a long line of great games had to be bigger and better than 
 anything before it if it was to have any chance in a competitive market today. Then id Software 
 decided to give the honors to Raven Software who, fully equipped with a Doom 3 engine, went off 
 to make history...
  
  They failed.
  
  The first thing that hits you when you get into the game is how much it feels like Doom 3. The 
 visuals are so alike that the games could just as well be the same. You get the same semi-cramped 
 feeling as you walk through the dimly lit hallways where you use your flashlight (which thankfully 
 is attached to something this time) quite a lot. Sure, it's very strict to say that it feels exactly 
 like Doom 3, but if you look at Raven Software's previous success with Return to Castle Wolfenstein 
 it's obvious to see that they are capable to make a unique game while working with a previously 
 existing engine.
  
  You're taken through a fairly simple story, most of which was revealed in Raven's first game trailer. 
 You have mission objectives at all times which take you from a terran battleship to the center 
 of the Strogg home base. Usually the main objective is to activate or destroy something but, as 
 is classic in such games, it's never that easy. Something always happens to stop your advancement, 
 which means that you have to go out of your way to fix the problem before you can finish what you 
 initially intended to do. Constantly having to interrupt your mission can become tedious but it 
 does help add a few more hours to the thin plot.
  
  Shooting Strogg after Strogg is never really boring. The AI in the game is structured chaos, so 
 you know how the specific enemies move but not enough to defeat them easily. The real difficulty 
 in the game, however, is the sheer amount of damage that your enemy can take. You can empty an 
 entire machine gun clip into one enemy and he'll still be coming towards you. Your character is 
 usually faster though, so if you keep moving you're quite safe. Shooting the various guns in the 
 game is enjoyable as each gun acts and sounds differently. There is no real strategy to the game, 
 just as long as you know that some form of projectile will enter your enemy.
  
  The graphics are great. The computer needs may be a bit steep, but what you get from it (great 
 lighting, cool effects, intricate models) is quite worth it. Some of the areas show that the Raven 
 team really know how to exploit the engine to produce great looking visuals. The ideas behind the 
 levels are quite interesting and every place you go to is made to look like a functioning military 
 base, with very few empty spots but with the constant darkness and the texturing, you really feel 
 like you are still in Doom 3.
  
  Quake 4 isn't an audible masterpiece, but the ambient sounds are enough to create a horrible and 
 immersive experience. The sounds from the enemies and guns only catch your attention for a second 
 because they are never really important. The sounds coming from the environment itself however, 
 is much better and the disgusting grunts from the human bodies strapped to the wall really add 
 to the atmosphere and the nostalgia.
  
  This is not a bad game, but it feels too much like Doom 3 to be really classified as a separate 
 project. Raven Software should really have used the engine to create a different experience than 
 the one than one already available. Some of the later levels start to feel like they are unique 
 but most of the time you will be looking at spotlights and dark corners, which really ruin the 
 experience. To a Quake fan, this game was disapointing and I would gladly have waited another two 
 years if it meant that id Software had created a new engine for the game rather than to use the 
 one they made for Doom 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: elfshadow26
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 3, 2005 4:30 pm PT
Review:  Ok let me explain.
  My first PC games was Quake, so I always have a fondness for Id's work. However the single playability 
 of their games has been somewhat lacking compared to their multi-player segments. Here Raven have 
 done a great job with this installment of the Quake franchise.
  The visuals are great, the voice acting is very good, the weapons do what they are meant to do 
 and thank god that the machine gun is equipped with a torchlight (a serious flaw in the Doom game) . 
 
  Quake 4 may not set your pulse racing like FEAR or break any new barriers but it is well executed 
 and fun to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ajbm5g
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 3, 2005 3:01 pm PT
Review:  Quake 4 is an overall great game for the PC. The game features some great graphics, thanks to the 
 Doom 3 engine, well balanced and intriguing gameplay, and a less-than-expected multiplayer. The 
 sound is just as great as you'd expect form id, and the AI has enough intelligence to challenge 
 you most of the times. But the game has some problems, most of which has to do with its similarities 
 to Doom 3.
  
  The gameplay, as I said before, is an overall exhilarating experience. Its draws you into the game 
 in a way that would want you to see the game through to the end. The storyline is well stitched 
 with the events of Quake 2. One of the best elements is that you get to play with NPCs. They are 
 pretty helpful, especially ones that are from your Rhino squad. The enemies act like you'd expect 
 from someone who's home planet is getting bombarded. They are not the jump-out-of-closet type that's 
 in Doom 3. They will do some simple flanking and assaulting on you and your team mates. The game 
 is very easy to finish on the first difficulty level, it takes less than 10hrs. The higher difficulties 
 will provide enough challenge to veteran/hardcore FPS players.
  
  The sound and graphics are just as stunning as Doom 3. You'd be doing yourself a big favour to 
 immerse yourself in a 5.1 system while playing this game. The guns and enemies sound very real. 
 And the ambient noises are stunning. The graphics are, as you'd expect, jaw dropping. The environment 
 looks as real as you can imagine an alien planet. The characters are well detailed and the physics 
 are decent enough for the experience. You will certainly need a powerful card to enjoy the full 
 extent of what id has to offer. Unfortunately, the game does tend to chug, even on high-end PCs, 
 in open areas and large rooms.
  
  The game has an overall stable feel to it. I experienced no crashes in the game, until I tried 
 to use Ultra High Quality Level on my Radeon X850 Pro. But the biggest problem I found in the game 
 was that it seemed too similar at times to Quake 4. Sometimes it was kind of hard to discern this 
 game from Doom 3. Id seemed to not be able to let go of their roots for this game. Some of the 
 designs in the Strogg buildings are extremely similar to the UAC Mars base. Fortunately, the game 
 is still unique enough that you will want to get it, even if you played Doom 3 and RoE.
  
  This game was a fun experience overall. Its a nice 10hr. break from life. It has its ups and downs, 
 mostly ups. In the end, I'd give this game a 9/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theholps
Rating: 5.2
Date: Nov 3, 2005 6:02 am PT
Review:  Easily my most disappointing gaming buy since Doom 3. Why do these people think shooting endless 
 aliens in the semi-dark is half as much fun as seeing your quarry fly across a desk or out of a 
 vehicle in DAYLIGHT so you can enjoy the whole experience. The gameplay was appalling with mission 
 after mission of identical boredom that led to me binning the game halfway through. Graphics have 
 awesome potential and sound is quality too but it is just simply boring! Quake 2 was a masterpiece 
 and just plain great fun but this does what Doom 3 did in the same was - DISAPPOINT. This has actually 
 made me very wary of buying from this company again which is a shame because they clearly have 
 the talent but need a map to find their way again. Take my advice and avoid until they get the 
 electrician in to whack up some decent flourescents. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeamonAMD
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 3, 2005 1:11 am PT
Review:  The Game was superb. I loved playing the game. It was on the short side as i got into the game 
 it was finnished. But if you've played the game you will nou that there's going to be a seqaul. 
 I can't wait.
  
  The plot in the game is good, unfolds nicely. The game is realy a bit short for me i finnished 
 the game in 2 days, but i think it was worth it.
  
  I hope that you guys will enjoy the game as much as I did.
  
  So Boys and Girl go get a copy 
 today and play Quake 4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: conquerorsaint
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 2, 2005 7:51 pm PT
Review:  gameplay - typical quake fps, slow moving at the beginning, and was having doubts coz the quake 
 i remember moved very fast. after stroggification though, you moved very lightly and quick like 
 in multiplayer. the game has you riding different vehicles at different points of the game. while 
 they're a welcome break, i didnt enjoy them too much. good thing it was just short sequences. the 
 enemy ai is disappointing in that they're easily killed because of lack of ability to dodge besides 
 the random strafing that they do, while others rush on fearlessly into your crosshair. 
  
  graphics - the graphics are a bit better than doom 3's. and the character models are better modeled. 
 but not much difference other than that.
  
  sound - the sounds are okay, the weapon effects hit hard and had to turn down the volume coz they 
 sound so powerful.
  
  value - the single player is too short though, but the multiplayer is there to keep things fun. 
 i wish there was more skins besides the characters found in the game. and more colors too.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrNib
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 2, 2005 3:04 pm PT
Review:  If you liked all the other Quakes, you like this one. This game is what its called a massive earthquake 
 of a game. Quake has allways been on the battlefield with amazing graphics and very fun multiplayer. 
 The single player inst a letdown, but it aint perfect I was confused of what the heck was going 
 on most of the time. But the story moves you along through the single player with ease so it gets 
 the job done. If your waiting for a demo I wont blame you, but in my oppinion this is worth every 
 dollar you spend on it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bridges2002000
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 2, 2005 8:03 am PT
Review:  The way id are going at the moment the will be no end to there reign at the top of the marker of 
 great shooters. Even with fear an till half life hanging around people still go back to id for 
 their kicks. ive followed id from the start so i love anythin doom or quake related. the latest 
 quake was a different way of taking the story with u playin a converted strogg. the story an weapons 
 are all veterans from previous games in the id arsenal. The strogg have been updated an made more 
 bio-mechanical and freaky the even have a complete language that u read all around the game. first 
 timers to the id world shud love this game while oldies will love the fond memories of fraggin 
 strogg years before. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _iMMuNiTy_
Rating: 8.1
Date: Nov 2, 2005 7:45 am PT
Review:  In 1996, Quake I was one of the first games, which introduced FPS (First Person Shooter) combat 
 in 3-D, adding depth to the levels, thus increasing the immersiveness of the player.
  
  A year later, in 1997, id Software (the crew behind all Dooms) released Quake II. This time around, 
 not only it introduced better 3D graphics, definite surroundings, but a story to boot, as well. 
 Furthermore, Quake II was one of those games which we could spend a whole night fragging each other 
 in multiplayer.
  
  Later came Quake III, but it was purely multiplayer-based. It featured improved graphics, a few 
 gameplay tweaks, however it had no single-player. Quake III, released in the year of 1999, is popular 
 up until now. Even I myself take it out on my friends with Quake III: Arena.
  
  And now that most of people have forgotten about Quake 4, being occupied by Quake 2 and 3 (and 
 some maybe even Quake 1) , this year, 2005, Raven develops Quake 4 using id Software's DooM 3 engine. 
 
  
  Singleplayer of Quake 4 starts off where Quake II left off - you're Matthew Kane, a soldier, who, 
 during his endeavours (in Quake II) , discovered that Strogg aren't friendlies and that we're at 
 the brink of war. Quake 4 introduces the war itself, as well as the protagonist, Matthew Kane, 
 at the very beginning, and very effectively, if I may add. From then everything's pretty clear 
 and there's not much to the story: you're one hell of a soldier, and your mission is to win the 
 war. All by yourself. Sometimes you'll be accompanied by your allies, but the most good they do 
 is cover you when you reload, so yeah, they're mainly for show.
  
  The gameplay remains very Quakish, however you won't find Quad damage or any other power-ups alike 
 in the game, which is quite a drawback for some. Also, the flashlight makes an appearance, and 
 a better one than in DooM 3. The pistol and the machine gun have an implemented flashlight, and 
 whenever you toggle the flashlight on or off, an animation takes place. If you press 'F' while 
 holding another weapon, you'll switch to the machine gun (or the pistol if you're out of ammo for 
 the MG) .
  
  The multiplayer of Quake 4 remains the same as Quake III, with an exception of graphics and new 
 weaponry.
  
  Speaking of which, graphics are slightly better than DooM 3's, considering the developers have 
 increased the polygon count (meaning: round heads instead of pentagon ones) . There are also huge 
 enemies, even though there were none except Hell Knight in DooM 3. There is even a whole level 
 dedicated to scaring the holy ... out of you, introducing a large enemy trying to attack as you 
 descend in an elevator.
  
  Overall, Quake IV is a solid, good game, but if you disliked previous Quakes, or maybe grew out 
 of shoot 'em ups, this is not a game for you. Otherwise, go grab the game, kick Stroggs' butt, 
 and then go kick your friends', too! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GB1787
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 2, 2005 12:57 am PT
Review:  The boys at Raven did a great job in porting a solid action epic into the D3 engine. Not as effect 
 laden, more satisfying violence and shooting make for a good title. I could probably go through 
 the whole thing with just the machine gun and still be pretty satisfied. Everything else is just 
 eye candy. Only played the first few levels, looking forward to finishing it off. Runs good, better 
 than expected. 
  
  The boys at Raven did a great job in porting a solid action epic into the D3 engine. Not as effect 
 laden, more satisfying violence and shooting make for a good title. I could probably go through 
 the whole thing with just the machine gun and still be pretty satisfied. Everything else is just 
 eye candy. Only played the first few levels, looking forward to finishing it off. Runs good, better 
 than expected. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: waikit25
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 1, 2005 11:48 pm PT
Review:  
  I had played this game for 2 days now. The gameplay is neat with terrific graphics comparable with 
 Doom 3. Hey wat am i saying???? It uses the Doom 3 engine. Story wise, its a pretty standard straight 
 forward as other shooters. Great multiplayer. One bad thing that is about this game is that it 
 requires a pretty powerful machine to run it full blast. I have a middle range machine and i have 
 to play it at very low graphics level. Other than that the game is pretty stable. why it has to 
 be 100  
 Long enough? hahahaha 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zorganite
Rating: 7.6
Date: Nov 1, 2005 11:08 am PT
Review:  Just a bit too much Doom 3 in this game. I understand they use the same engine, but do the people, 
 the environments, the weapons and the effects all have to look 99% THE SAME?
  
  If you liked Doom 3, this is for you. But I really, really can't find where Quake fits into this, 
 so far. It's... sad.
  
  Graphics are, as you expect, amazing. It looks slightly improved from Doom 3, which is good. I 
 still think F. E. A. R. and Riddick: Butcher Bay both have better graphics, what with their lighting 
 and such. I'd rent this game if I could, but you know. Too late now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: galbot2k
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 1, 2005 9:13 am PT
Review:  Amazing... simply amazing. Everything is so perfect. The sounds the graphics the game play and 
 the story are fantastic. I just hope Im not disappointed by the ending. 
  
  I have to admit i was very sceptical about the game as it does use the same engine as Doom 3 and 
 Doom 3: ROE which I didn't find fantastic.
  
  The guns are tasty too, especially the dark matter gun, although a little like the BFG but never 
 the less well tasty.
  
  All in all a great game with amazing sound. Youll love the surround sound effects but it is difficult 
 not to turn around when something is up behind you!
  
  Try it, buy it... Love it!! Keep it up ID.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: foxsan
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 2, 2005 10:03 am PT
Review:  This review only covers the single-player campaign of Quake 4, and in no way accounts for the quality 
 of multi-player.
  
  After years of waiting, Raven Software has finally delivered a single-player Quake 4 that fans 
 of the original Quake and Quake 2 will love. Most of the elements of the previous games are still 
 here: you'll be launching grenades down hallways, you'll line up shots to send rail slugs through 
 3 or 4 enemy Strogg forces at a time, and you'll use obstacles to your advantage in both firefights 
 and level advancement. You'll find most of Quake's arsenal here, and a few of your weapons will 
 be upgraded throughout the game, providing old weapons with new life in the midst of battle. And 
 battles can get messy, since enemy forces are both quick and smart, either quickly dodging away 
 from well-placed shotgun blasts, or surprising you with rail blasts emerging from the opposite 
 ends of rooms. Like the transition from Doom to Doom 3, however, Raven has decided to forego on 
 "hidden secrets" by placing items in odd locations rather than by "clicking on that odd wall" or 
 "shooting that weird thing". 
  
  In fact, Quake 4 feels a lot like Doom 3 played as a totally separate game. Both run on the Doom 
 3 graphics engine, the interfaces are similar, some of the weapons feel similar (especially the 
 shotgun) , and you'll even be interacting with screens by clicking on particular hotspots in the 
 exact same way it was done in Doom 3. But Quake 4 is far from being a Doom 3 clone. You'll often 
 receive non-essential teammates that provide assistance in firepower and health/armor, and they 
 do an excellent job in preventing both you and themselves from getting killed while intelligently 
 using cover. And complain all you want about the Doom 3 engine, but Quake 4 provides adequately 
 lit environments that never leaves you in the dark. In fact, not only will you never be defenseless 
 in dark areas since you start with a machine gun-mounted flashlight, but any teammates escorting 
 you around will also be shining light into the proper areas so you can see your objectives and 
 enemies. 
  
  The events in Quake 4 happen immediately after the venture to destroy the Strogg leader in Quake 
 2, but you won't find much in the way of plot twists or story content. Essentially, it always involves 
 moving deeper into Strogg territory, restoring and shutting down power, and killing anything that 
 moves. A major issue, however, is the fact that the storyline (often relayed through your communication 
 system) is often drowned out by the game's audio. You'll sometimes receive new objectives in the 
 middle of a firefight, but due to the overwhelming sound of gunfire, you won't be able to hear 
 them, leaving you to check your objectives to see what you're required to do. 
  
  Barring the small technical and nit-picky issues, Quake 4 is an excitingly fast-paced first person 
 shooter that makes good use of weaponry and team-oriented tactics. Enemies are quick and dynamic, 
 often knowing how to use the environment to their advantage, and the level design always offers 
 different room setups to test your mettle in different combat situations. Highly recommended to 
 fans of pure first person shooters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bah-Humbug
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 31, 2005 7:19 pm PT
Review:  To say that I was disappointed by Doom 3 would be an understatement. The game was very repetitive 
 and it tried to hard to scare you (not that it succeeded often) . The Multi-player was also a joke. 
 Quake 4 on the other hand is a very satisfying game that has a lot going for its single player. 
 The action is very varied. There are times you will fight alongside fellow marines who are a great 
 help and usually have interesting personalities. 
  
  The games many enemies are really ugly which is fitting since they are bio-mechanically altered. 
 Their AI is a bit better then most of Doom 3s enemies and they are rather good shots. I played 
 the game on hard and it was a nice challenge since their attacks do a lot of damage. If you want 
 to beat them be prepared to keep moving and popping in and out of cover if it is available. The 
 boss fights are tons of fun but are a little bit easy. The same can be said about most of the vehicle 
 levels I wish there where more though.
  
  Quake 4 looks great arguably better then Doom 3. The models are less blocked and don't have noticeably 
 pointy cone heads like D3. The explosions and fire affects are amazing and the same can be said 
 for it's lighting. It is easier to see were you are going since the environments are not to dark. 
 The game also sounds great except some cheesy screams of dying marines. All of the weapons sound 
 appropriately powerful with the exception of some explosions. The enemies yell at you in their 
 alien language and it sounds really cool.
  
  Multi-player is to fast and crazy for me. It will be your cup of tea if you love Quake 3 but I 
 prefer UT2004 to it. I bought the limited DVD special edition but it was not really worth it. I 
 tried to get into Quake 2 but I found its controls to frustrating (no mouse look) . If you like 
 crazy action games then buy Quake 4 it is worth the money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kazuya_m
Rating: 8.1
Date: Oct 31, 2005 3:01 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: 
  As the title says Quake 4 is more like a mixture of Halo 2 and it's vehicle levels plus Doom3 with 
 just 5 times more monsters. You only need to kill as much monsters, zombies war machines as possible, 
 sometimes you can use some of those marines, which will follow you sometimes to help you, like 
 healing, repairing armor or kill as much monsters... The level design will force you to go always 
 into the right direction, that's more boring then helping .
  Graphics:
  The Doom3 engine in action. Not that dark like Doom3, bigger levels bigger hall ways, more places 
 outside and a lot of different vehicles, like a tank a mech or even a tram rail way and many more. 
 And the textures are this time much sharper and detailed then in D3 as well as the bump mapping. 
 But this has got also a bad side of the coin: Because it's not so dark the specular mapping will 
 be messed sometimes, also the polycount is sometimes "strange". You can not judge if those character 
 models have enough polys or not.
  Design: Yeah that's Doom3 and Quake design, too bad that there are not enough more organic inspired 
 level design instead of "blocky" "brick" builded "Lego houses"
  Sound: from a technical stand point, wow, EAX 4.0 that's awsome, excellent 3D sound effects, from 
 all the other stand points, it's more boring and sometimes you even hear no music because those 
 guns are to load, but all in all it depends on taste of the gamer
  Value
  ALL IN ALL: Technically a great game, not a masterpiece, just great... But gameplay is too short, 
 "fast food killing", old school Quake combined with some new ideas like those marine support system 
 and those vehicle levels 
::::::

::::::
UserName: baubaul
Rating: 6.1
Date: Oct 30, 2005 10:43 pm PT
Review:  I''ll be fair and I'll say that I played only the first missions and I just got the Doom 3 feeling, but 
 nothing else! I didn't had paticene with this game, I was expecting more not just a sequel for Doom 
 3 named Quake 4.
  
  Since I saw the same ships, body armour design and the same game play (monster spawning and some 
 times trying to scare you, but the feelings from DOOM 3 is lost) I didn't enjoy it.
  
  Yeah.. I didn't play the multiplayer... cos I still love the Quake 2 :)
  
  Maybe I should give 
 another try, but I don't feel the need to play doom I just wanna play Quake and dodge rockets!
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dexfx69
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 30, 2005 2:50 pm PT
Review:  Unlike the previous Quake franchises, this one sparkles with the goodness of the Doom 3 engine, 
 yet manages to juice the best of that engine for maximum eye candy. On top of that, the characters 
 and surroundings are emotion provoking and next generation, avoiding the corridor madness of Doom 
 3. The multiplayer doesn't add much to the genre, but it's a tried and true multiplayer format 
 that will keep most players very happy. One beef is that the experience could have been more like 
 Quake 1, with more suspense and more varied monsters to battle. All said, this game is highly recommended. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: simonwest1977
Rating: 4.3
Date: Oct 30, 2005 1:20 pm PT
Review:  If i had to sum this game up in one word.. it's be 'Rubbish'.
  it seems to start promisingly, but then you realise that the best has come first.
  every vehicle 
 part nivloves dodging the gun turrents/missles, and every other mission involves you running after 
 someone, escorting someone, or doing all the work while the squad leader stays in one spot.
  another thing is most of the thing you expect to happen, do happen, if you haven't been attacked 
 but theres a darkened room, yeh they jump out, but not before the door closes and strangely locks 
 without anyone locking it, doors are locked untill you whole squad stands infront of them, them 
 by magic they unlock.
  After we've had suck good games as half life 2 ( albeit a poor ending on that one ) i'd hope that 
 game makers would try to step up to their players expectations. sadly this does not.
  I bought it knowing that there were some short comings, but expected an enjoyable ride still. I 
 wish i would have just not bothered buying this and gone straight for F. E. A. R.
  
  Over all, Nice area graphics, enemies look poo, weapons are weak and targeting seems to be tempromental. 
 i woulsn't say avoid this, but for 20 i still didn't enjoy it. ( too easy - finished in 1 day 
 ) 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bkraith98
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 30, 2005 9:02 am PT
Review:  After playing the game it seems to me that Quake 4 is well worth a 9 rating. I am not into the 
 multi-payer aspect of the game. Although Doom 3 and Quake 4 use the same engine it is not as dark 
 as Doom 3 and I can see the graphic detail in the game. The game play is excellent , althought 
 there are not as many creatures to kill as in the previous Quakes they are harder to kill. This 
 to me makes the game more of a challange to play. I love the sound in the game. You do not have 
 to strain to hear the whats comming over the music in the back ground and the weapons sound great. 
 All and all a great game that has all the essences of the Quake 2 classic. I cannot wait until 
 the expansion pak hits the market. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Latrosicarius
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 31, 2006 10:22 pm PT
Review:  I originally scored this game bad, but it's grown on me. Plus they HAVE released some patches so 
 its much better now. I just wish they'd give official support for Rail-Only instagib gameplay and 
 freezetag mod.
  
  === Now, on to the very angry and biased review of several months ago ===
  
  I should have 
 known. iD, Activision, and Raven Software team up again to make another game with expectations 
 set so high, you can only be disappointed. Before I start, please let me express to you that I 
 am definitely not a hater, and both Quake III Arena and Doom 3 were some of my favorite games of 
 all time. I was just so miffed when I went to the store, and spent a whole fifty dollars on this 
 game only to find out that it was a big bundle of hot steaming crap. The single player is fairly 
 good, the multiplayer has the POTENTIAL to be very good once some good server-side mods are written 
 for it, but right now, as an overall package, this game deserves a 6 out of 10 at best. This was 
 the most disappointed I think Ive ever been with an iD game. Downright awful.
  
  There are three categories that Im using to describe the shortcomings of this game: interface, 
 graphics, and gameplay. Maybe some future patches can fix a lot of these inequities, but for now, 
 Ill let you read below exactly how and why this game sucks as bad as it does.
  
  Interface:
  
  Lets start off with one of the most visible components of the gamethe menu 
 interface. Its the first thing you see when you startup the game, and therefore creating a likeable 
 and easy-to-use interface will go a long way towards improving the first impression of the game 
 as a whole.
  
  Unfortunately, the developers chose not to give a flying something about the interface. They instead, 
 seem to have tried as hard as possible to create one of the worst excuses for a menu I have ever 
 come across. Its almost as if they wanted it to be unintuitive.
  
  First of all, the mouse on the interface is incredibly fast, and very hard to actually click the 
 buttons you want. Its probably worse than the main menu for Halo PC, if anyone has experienced 
 that atrocity. If you try to minimize the game to set down your mouse sensitivity in the Windows 
 Control Panel, you will find that there is no way to minimize the game. Anyway, even if you exit 
 the game, set down the mouse sensitivity, and get back into it, it wont even affect the cursor 
 in game.
  
  Other things that always indicate the effort put into the game are the small details for instance, 
 the inclusion of an option to unbind mistakenly bound keys in the keyboard and mouse setup menu 
 would have been nice. It was easier to just open the .cfg file with Notepad and bind all the controls 
 manually. But I guess, nobody at Activision thought there would be much of need to change the controls 
 from their defaults.
  
  The multiplayer game list lounge is probably one of the worst attempts at such a feature, and is 
 only superseded in its uselessness by that of Quake III Arena. Its lack of features and complicated 
 filtering system makes you almost wish youd flushed 50 dollars down the toilet rather than purchased 
 this sorry excuse for a multiplayer game.
  
  Right off the bat, as soon as you click on the Multiplayer button, it starts searching for one 
 thousand servers. You cant change this number, and you cant cancel this search. If you do try 
 to cancel the search, it will hang up your computer for several seconds, and then bring you back 
 to the main menu great. Now you realize that in order to play any multiplayer games, you have 
 to just go back into Multiplayer, and just wait for it to load up the 1000 servers, which would 
 probably take quite a while on anything lower than cable internet access. Note, that you of course 
 cannot do anything wile the server list is loading because it brings even a high-end system to 
 an outright crawl during this process.
  
  Finally, the list of available servers is loaded and you want to play a particular game-type, such 
 as CTF. You quickly find out that you can only sort the list by one category, so you can EITHER 
 sort by game-type OR by ping, OR by number of players OR by map. Of course this is to be expected 
 why oh why would anyone want to see only servers of their desired game type that are neither empty 
 nor full, that are at a decent ping, and that are running their desired map? I cant imagine a 
 situation where this would be useful .
  
  Whats even worse, is that (remember) there is a list of ONE THOUSAND servers to scroll through 
 and your mouse is EXTREMELY sensitive. Its amazingly hard to try and scroll up or down without 
 skipping tens or hundreds of servers at a time. Well, you say, thats fine I will simply use 
 the scroll wheel on my mouse to scroll up or down. To your surprise, however unlikely as it may 
 seem, yesthis game (which is released in the year 2005, mind you) has no support for scrolling 
 with the scroll wheel! Oh thats okay, you say, Ill just click the up or down arrow buttons 
 at the top and bottom of the scroll bar. Well, unfortunately, no such buttons exist. Hmmmmm Well 
 thats really a pickle, you say, but couldnt we always click on one server in the list and just 
 use the up or down arrow keys on your keyboard to move up or down?. The answer is a resounding 
 NO, as it seems the creators of this game were apparently unaware that arrow keys exist on keyboards.
 
  
  Note that the lack of a search filter where you can enter keywords to try and shorten the list 
 based on server name, map, etc does not exist either. The only possible way to filter your servers 
 is by eliminating non-dedicated servers and/or servers not running PunkBuster. Since about ninety 
 percent of servers use PunkBuster, you have little choice but to filter all the non-PB servers 
 out of the list. And after you FINALLY scroll to and select a server that looks good, it starts 
 the loading process but freaks out because you dont have PunkBuster enabled. You would think that 
 it should be enabled by default, given that the majority of servers use it, and wont even let 
 you join without it. So it kicks you back to the main menu and expects you to dig through the menus 
 and enable it manually, without any reference to where that option might be.
  
  You eventually find the option, enable it, and go back into Multiplayer happy in the assumption 
 that you must be at least close to joining a server. Ohhh, but you assumed wrong! For it just 
 so happens that you now have to download this list of one thousand servers AGAIN! And not only 
 that, but all of your filter settings are reset back to default. Yes, its true Q4 does not EVER 
 remember any of your settings!!!
  
  Okay, so with PB enabled, you put back all of your filter settings and try to hunt down that server 
 that you attempted to join before. Well, due to the lack of a history, you cant find it. You 
 finally see one that looks interesting, and you try to join. You soon realize that it wont let 
 you join because that server is using some sort of mod (which almost ALL servers use, or will use 
 as soon as more are written for this fledgling game) . Your join process comes to a screeching halt 
 and it informs you what mod the server is using. Note that, unlike almost every other 21st century 
 game, Q4 does NOT automatically download the client-side mod information that will let you play. 
 You have to physically go to their website, find the client mod files that they provide, and manually 
 extract them to your Quake 4 directory, which of course requires a restart of the game.
  
  Graphics:
  
  The graphics are exceptional. And they run surprisingly smooth, even on high settings. 
 I believe many improvements must have been made over Doom 3s core, due to the fact that it runs 
 amazingly fast. Theres not much to gripe about in the graphics department, but I did find a few 
 things that were a bit disappointing:
  
  1. Explosions often produce smoke that appears as many little balls of puff, rather than a continuous 
 streak or cloud.
  2. Instead of using 3D models in the distance to make the environment look more realistic, the 
 use of simple 3D images provide somewhat of a corny-looking panoramic backdrop. Take a hint from 
 Half-Life 2 and use cubemaps.
  3. The flashlight flood area does not become oblique when cast on a surface from an angle. Its 
 always just an ovular orb of lightened area.
  4. Shadows are still very hard-edged, which just subtracts from the realism of the game whenever 
 you look at one. iD really needs to implement soft-edged shadowing, or integrate some HDR like 
 the new Valve games (Lost Cost, etc) .
  
  By the way, for those that think Doom 3 and games based on the Doom 3 engine have dynamic shadows, 
 look again. Go up to any object (especially noticeable on railings) and shine your flashlight on 
 it. If you look closely at the resulting shadow, you will realize that it is not cast on the wall (s) 
 behind it. In fact, its not cast on anything. The dynamic shadows in Doom 3 are nothing more 
 than a semi-opaque, black instance of the object (railing or whatever) that is offset directly 
 opposite of the object by about two or three inches. Nothing more; nothing less. The shadows 
 are never actually cast on anything. Its all an optical illusion sorry to burst your bubble.
 
  
  Gameplay:
  
  The gameplay was quite good, however there were a few things I didnt like, that are listed here:
 
  
  1. Guns should lower when you point at friendlies and interactive panels so you know you arent 
 going to shoot them when you click.
  2. There should be a benefit in accuracy from crouching that is seen by a change in the size of 
 your aiming reticle.
  3. There is no way to see the health of your friendlies / squad members / team mates.
  4. Should 
 be able to jump-crouch to jump slightly higher like in Counter-Strike.
  5. Lots of NPCs are the exact same character model.
  6. Lots of different NPCs are voiced by 
 the same voice actors.
  7. Is it just me, or is there a split second delay after you click the mouse button before the 
 railgun fires. Im not talking about the long recharge delay, which is supposed to exist. Its 
 much harder to lead and get an accurate shot b/c the shot should be instantaneous, but there 
 is a tiny delay. NOT GOOD in multiplayer.
  8. BUT MOST ANNOYING: NPCs dont get the hell out of your way when you walk at them. I got boxed 
 in by this one idiot squad member who felt the need to stand one foot away from my face when he 
 stopped following me. I couldnt even shoot him, b/c the NPCs are invincible to friendly-fire, 
 and the gun wont even fire when pointed at them. I had to restart the level to continue, which 
 just pissed me off. These developers just dont pay attention to the details!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mariochp
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 28, 2005 5:58 pm PT
Review:  I didn't expected much from quake 4 cause i played doom 3 but it was only graphics. Let's start 
 from the beginning , cause i have 
  just finished the game. The intro really charged me up, throwing you in the chaos of the battle 
 in a futuristic-like-Saving Private 
  Ryan way , showing you an apocalyptic battlefield with harvesters walking and killing on the background. 
 Yes , these are the first 
  minutes of an adventure that will bring you in the darkest places of planet stroggos ,on a mission 
 to save a desperate mankind , 
  on a mission where the price is your humanity.
  I finished the game in only 2 days. Yes , 2 days , cause my friends i can assure you it is really 
 great.
  Visually OUTSTANDING, i liked almost everything in this game from the beginning to the end , the 
 storyline is brilliant full of 
  unexpected blows , with a really good language localization and voice acting. The other marines 
 will follow you on certain missions 
  and you will became attached to some of your teammates (especially Strauss! :) also you will need 
 them to open doors , to heal 
  yourself or to repair your armor and to power up your weapons. I liked some of the these very much 
 , like the dark matter cannon or 
  the lock-on nail-gun! Nice weapons but nothing new ,while the power ups will add something to the 
 game-play , like shooting behind 
  the corners with a remote controlled rocket. The enemies are beautiful and intelligent , some of 
 them will act as a team , firing 
  at you and taking cover while others (the heavily armored ones) will berserk toward your direction 
 trying to slay you with blades 
  and maces, also i enjoyed very much the bosses like the Guardian , and the arachnid Macron .
  
 Piloting the walker or the tank feels really good , they are powerful but not to much , so you 
 will have to use a strategy in 
  the battles instead of rushing fearlessly into the enemy .The game is violent but bot enough for 
 my taste , i would prefer much 
  more blood and dismembering cause violence IN THE VIDEO-GAMES (and i repeat IN THE VIDEO-GAMES) 
 is funny.
  The game lacks of an underwater section , and i think that there is few interactivity with the 
 walls , the machinery ,etc etc....
  Beautiful the in-game cut-scenes in an half-life style (marines overwhelmed by stroggs , enemies 
 that break the walls , windows..)
  The game successfully delivers the feel of a desperate war for earth's survival. Perhaps it is too 
 short (nearly 10 hours of 
  playing) but we all know that all the good things don't last much.... ;)
  i don't think it is 
 the best shooter ever , but i can say that few other shooters (half-life2?) took my time like this 
 one (i am 
  an expert player with thousands of games on my shoulders and 15 years wasted playing ;) so i know 
 what am i saying) and i can say 
  that it is worth buying , renting or at least give it a try , you won't regret. i assure you.
 
  SO MARINE GRAB YOUR NAIL-GUN AND GO TEARING APART SOME F***IN STROGGS! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DRyOrange_basic
Rating: 8.4
Date: Oct 28, 2005 4:24 pm PT
Review:  I love single player game. I remember playing games that only offer that and my word they did a 
 fantastic job at the story telling. Quake 4 "sort of" remind me of those days, when you just want 
 to keep playing to figure out the story. It's intense and quite capable of keeping you going without 
 losing your interest. Enermy AI is simple and Squad AI doesnt ususally get in your way. From a 
 single player purist point of view, I wish the story can be a bit longer and involve more teammate 
 back story. Nevertheless, it's a fantastic game, and really I dont care for multiplayer... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ali9953
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 28, 2005 1:37 pm PT
Review:  This game required 8.5+ 8.0 is unfaire gamespot :D 
  well sounds ,engine, graphics are very nice ..
  but EXTERNAL enviroment are not well made but 
 INTERNAL enviroment and designs are excellent ( (ID ALWAYS OWNZ IN NARROW AREAS) ) single player 
 campain is very exiting its hard to quit the game in the middle of any mission SP campain in my 
 opinion must be played by any FPS gamer its very exiting. 
  MP LL be very very very very NICE for QUAKEIIIARENA FANS but i dont think it ll attract new FPS 
 shooters in my opinion this is Quake style if many changes ll be made the game ll be lost keep 
 that in mind many gamers like games that is fast and jump while shoting targets that is the Death 
 match style FRAGGGGING YEAAAAH @ the end i just wanna say that ID is the king of FPS GAMES Quake 
 and Doom series are the kings of the HELL. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sethalos
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 28, 2005 12:19 pm PT
Review:  I don't play these games for the Multiplayer aspect, so I'll only comment here on the Single Player 
 game.
  
  First the things I thought could be done better were the cutscenes, creature variations, and diversity 
 of environment.
  
  The things they did right was the gameplay, the weapons, and the fun factor. This is all about 
 shooting everything in site, it added a new level of fun with the addition of weapon upgrades, 
 and the ability to be healed or given armor by personel that were constantly available.
  
  The graphics and sound were superb, but the gametype is getting a bit old. I'd like to see games 
 start branching out more like F. E. A. R. The Doom and Quake series although rich and fun, need a 
 boost into the modern game times. We've all played these types of FPS games ad-nauseum and it would 
 be much more entertaining if the creators would take risks and try something new. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilan
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 28, 2005 4:13 am PT
Review:  Performance:
  First off i'll say that the game runs quite a bit more sluggishly than doom3 does on my pc at the 
 same settings. i usually stay around 60fps in doom, i'll likely have to turn off antialiasing.
 
  The first level i ran through in about 5 minutes. The sounds are mediocre in my opinion, voice 
 acting is ok but squadmates doesnt sound like their in much distress or seem to have fear. There 
 were no noticable facial expression changes. Most squadmates dont have much to say.
  Still no ALT+TAB out.... which i find extremely annoying, on my machine its impossible to go into 
 windows, even with taskmanager.
  
  Graphics:
  
  As you can see from the first pic, the darker areas of the game are really dark just like doom3 
 despite it being outdoors in daylight.
  The textures wernt quite up to par with doom3, they were very washed out looking even from a afar, 
 much of the game requires the use of the built in flashlight so i pretty much just leave it on 
 although there really isnt anything pretty to look at.
  most of what you see is metal, rock, desert and metal buildings embedded in rock, sky appears awekwardly 
 cloudy.
  you notice lots of flashes around as if things exploding but much of the time you cant see the 
 source.
  at max resolution and ultra settings, max filtering, the game overall looks much much better, looks 
 alot more like cg type cinema... when its on pause that is since the fps is impossible. The squadmates 
 look like clones from doom3, steroid shaped heads with bulky body and dark hair. i'm not certain 
 but i swear the sargent sounds just like the one in doom 3 but surely they didnt use the same voice 
 actors..... id?... no surely raven wouldnt be cheap like that.
  
  Gameplay:
  from a control standpoint the game feels exactly like doom3, same speed of movement, same feel 
 of weapons. light from gun mounted flashlight looks similar. which all certainly isnt bad, its 
 a typical fps feel to control outside of operating vehicles/mechs.
  
  A. I.
  the squadmates seem fairly intelligent as far as behavior, they hide n shoot and move like marines 
 should but nothing impressive. in one instance a strogg killed a squadmate and no one else acted 
 in the least bit like anything bad happened.. no marine down or anything like that.. its as if he 
 no one was injured. heartless marines i suppose.
  the enemies are just plain crap, some run at you full speed, others dodge or may stand behind something 
 but all attack relentlessly, i noticed they were shooting at me alot more than at my squadmates 
 despite them all being in front of me with them shooting when i'm not.... thats flat out discrimination!!.. wheres 
 my lawer.
  
  while the game looks like doom3, its a heck of alot more fun than that and has alot more replay 
 value for sure. the battles are pretty fun and overall its about like many ww2 games except in 
 the future... on another planet. 
  
  doom3 was a love/hate... if you liked doom3 you'll love this game... if you hated doom3 youll find 
 this game mediocre. no one would likely just hate this game aside from the d3 engine bashers that 
 like to nit pick and cant see the game itself as a whole.
  
  its easy to make comparisons to doom 3 since you see so much of it all around you, in  
 but make no mistake about it, its far better in the fun factor.... overall i give the game a 7 out 
 of 10 but highly advise anyone to download and play the demo first before purchasing it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hacer
Rating: 3.6
Date: Oct 28, 2005 4:05 am PT
Review:  I think that Id Sftw never thought about making games seriously. I would rather say that Id first 
 made a graphic engine. After that thought what game would fit to that engine e. x. Doom 3. Quake 
 4 is nothing else like stupid Doom 3 with diffrent monster design. Graphics-great looking game. 
 Sound-silly sound of monster scream but fine music. Gameplay-boring without any riddles just kill 
 everything what moves. Game designers should play Quake (Doom3) too see how to scr** up game. Why 
 Gamespot geve 8.0 i don't know. Please don't buy it. Don't let Id to do more Doomlike games. They 
 are just pathetic as game creators.
  
  P. S. Sound 6.0 only for music. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sleeplessevil
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 28, 2005 1:03 am PT
Review:  Sorry, i dont have time for a complete review!
  I can just tell you guys this that : Quake 4 rocks
  Highly maintained environment!
  Gr8 effects!
 
  Pretty much takes the cake!
  Its nicely programmed too and has a tendency to make gamers addicted to it. 
  Quek finishes its 
 triology with q4 and well maeks it highly impressive fps!
  Realistic nature adn Ai combined makes the game even better. 
  -need to write 30 more words so...- 
 aaa aa aa aa aaa aaaa aaa 
  a aa aaaa a aaa a a a aa a aa a a aaaaa aa a a a a aaaa aa aa. a a a a a a a a a a a . aaaa .a 
 a a -sLeepLess maLice-: P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Muhannad_basic
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 27, 2005 11:46 pm PT
Review:  Quake 4 is basically a jumped up port of Doom 3, but that doesn't by anyway makes it a less of 
 an amazing game.
  
  Just like Doom 3, Quake 4 looks and sounds great, the graphics are actually pushed a bit beyond 
 Doom 3, so if Doom ran well on your pc don't expect the same performance in Quake 4 unless you 
 have a high end pc, ofcourse to enjoy Quake at its best, I recommend atleast an ATI X800XT or a 
 Geforce 6800 GT.
  
  Single player mode is quite long and alot of fun, sometimes can be repititive but still great. 
 Multiplayer mode is fair but not what was expected from such a great game.
  
  Still, Quake 4 is must have game that shouldn't be missed unless you are looking forward to play 
 it on Xbox 360, just like i am. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jared_febb
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 27, 2005 10:52 pm PT
Review:  All around fun to play. The single player game is fast and full of action, it is a refreshing change 
 from slower games like fear, doom iii and half life 2 which are great but bring you through the 
 game at a much slower pace. No slow points in quake 4. 
  
  Auto save points are well placed. You can go through almost the entire game without worrying about 
 saving your place. 
  
  There is a wide variety of enemies to fight and they look great. Most enemies go down in one or 
 two shots (with the right gun) but you are constantly thrown into rooms with 6-10 foes so it is 
 still a challenge. Also the weapons and their sounds are very satisfying. There are 10 upgradeable 
 weapons which provide good variety. The plot is good and the story keeps you interested. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rhett3
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 27, 2005 5:05 pm PT
Review:  i found the game really fun and not too hard until the very last part then it got hard fast then 
 again i've liked every game in the series but this one delivered everything i'd expected and more. 
 Also wish it would have come with drivers for the 9600 series come on its not like there outdated 
 or something i've got a 9600xt can play it on high easy but it works better when compatible. being 
 able to use the vehicles was really cool that was one thing i didn't expect and liked alot what 
 really pissed me off was that they renamed the BFG!!!!! how could they now its called the "dark 
 matter gun" still same gun but the BFG was classic 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SOLIDNSNAKE1227
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 27, 2005 5:02 pm PT
Review:  QUAKE 4 - Finally, the classic old-school series continues with a blast! The Realism in this version 
 of Quake is unprecedented! The only thing that surprised me was that the weapon mods aren't optional 
 like in Quake 2 (when they were considered as items) . But that isn't a big deal. The big deal is 
 that your gonna sweat your a** off playing this game! Action is coming from all directions, even 
 above you. The vehicule chapters could have been more developped but considereing ID wanted to 
 stick with the nostalgic gameplay of the older games, they kept it simple. Anyhow, I don't recommend 
 this game to people with sensitive stomachs, but if you like FPS, get it! It's a must HAVE! ... 
 or else it'll get you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eschinellaa
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 27, 2005 3:59 pm PT
Review:  I started out playing the game and thought to myself "Why did people rate this so low?" But near 
 the end i found out why. The graphics are AMAZING. It is defenitly one of the best graphically 
 made games out there and the sound and gameplay are good as well. I personally thought the game 
 was to short. It took me about 3 days to beat it on normal difficulty. The bosses arent hard enough 
 also. But what i really didnt like was the end. Not only how the end boss was the easiest boss 
 out of them all but how they left the story open for another Quake. I think its great that they 
 did that but it was just so cheesy. But overall the single-player is a solid action packed, gory, 
 and exciting ride. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheN00binator
Rating: 6.8
Date: Oct 27, 2005 3:57 pm PT
Review:  If I had to describe Quake 4 in one word, i'd say "Average"
  
  GAMEPLAY
  The Good - Certainly old skool in places. Interesting weaponry. Return of old monsters, and other 
 references to quake 2 will bring smiles to fans faces. Intruiging twist in the middle of the game 
 (although it doesnt really ammount to much) .
  
  The Bad - There isnt much skill involved in the ways you fight - your best bet would be to just 
 jump around and bit and shoot wildly. This works in Multiplayer, but in Singleplayer its a big 
 downside to the game. The game is quite easy, I cant have died more than 10 times during my entire 
 play through of the game. Average length, probably took me 10 hours to complete. Mediocre AI. Dissapointing 
 ending. 
  
  GRAPHICS
  The Good - Some sharp textures. Nice models - both human, monster, and weapon alike. Shadows look 
 awesome. Much more optimized that doom 3 ever was.
  
  The Bad - Doom 3 engine slowly beginning to show its age. Some blurry textures. Unnessaserily dark 
 considering how this is meant to be an action game, not a horror like Doom 3. The few lighter areas 
 of the game dont look half as good as the dark ones (the engine is simply unable) . Environments 
 get very repititive and boring after a while. Enemys magicly dissappear after being killed.
  
  SOUND
  The Good - Sounds great, all weapons sound beefy as hell. Lovely environment sounds, 
 very atmospheric. Great voice acting.
  
  The Bad - None.
  
  VALUE
  Not really worth its price tag at all. Wait till its in the bargain bin guys. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sterkey25
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 27, 2005 3:13 pm PT
Review:  I think this is a very fun game and any quake fan should enjoy it. Great graphics, pretty cool 
 story, and great cut scenes. The gameplay is pretty straightforward and theres not much u can do 
 but run, jump, and crouch. The sound in the game is great. The guns sound really cool along with 
 the explosions. Also the voice acting is really well done. I enjoyed the single player campaign 
 and online play is very very fun. The graphics are also pretty good. The outdoor parts are mostly 
 good except for things in the far distance. Other than the the inside levels are very detailed 
 and although it uses the doom 3 engine the lighting is brighter. I think this is a great game that 
 any quake fan should enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikehet0915
Rating: 6.9
Date: Nov 5, 2006 9:26 pm PT
Review:  Meh is exactly what I said after I beat Quake 4. If you want to play a game that is pretty average, 
 then this is for you. It feels like playing Elite Force, Soldier of Fortune, or Quake 2, but with 
 extremely good graphics.
  Gameplay - This is a pretty boring game. You probably press about 30 buttons, and ride around in 
 a tank for less than half an hour. Between all of these things you shoot stuff. The enemies in 
 the beginning of the game were pretty fun to kill, but it just got boring after awhile. You feel 
 like you are playing the same exact level over and over again (you will really notice this towards 
 the end of the game) . The boss fights were pretty fun. The ending made me dislike the game even 
 more.
  Graphics - This is the best looking game I've seen in a long time. You will notice that will you 
 stop at some points in the game just to look and absorb the room you are in. Some of the Strogg 
 facilities have so much detail that you won't believe this game is actually running on your computer. 
 The monsters look pretty cool and so do your teammates. This game is top-notch in graphics and 
 does deserve a 10.
  Sound - The acting is good, the monsters sound great, and all the weapons sound perfect, except 
 for the machine gun. This game sounds like a typical FPS from the late 90s, but souped up.
  Value - I really doubt that I will play the single player again and the multiplayer is JUST like 
 Quake 3. This is one of those games that will be collecting dust for awhile after you finish it.
 
  Tilt - This game is pretty average compared to all the other games that are out there right now. 
 I would rather play Far Cry or FEAR again, because the combat in those games is not the same every 
 single time you play it. In this game, it will be the same thing over and over. I was expecting 
 better from Quake 4, but it didn't even come close to meeting my expectations. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dazion
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 27, 2005 1:20 pm PT
Review:  First of all, i personally liked the game, because its the SAGA of all quake's. 
  Two, Storyline never changed same mech aliens, same machines, same weapons (better ones) . Another 
 important thing is the Quake 4 Engine, in my opinion the game has such a good engine, has same 
 graphics as Doom 3, only thing that Doom 3 takes more video memory and RAM; 
  altought Quake 4 has the same engines - graphics and when I played is more smoother and more faster 
 with the same settings and GFX's.
  I applause to ID Software everytime. What the hell.. they keep 0wn1ng.
  
  Later!
  dazie. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snakeam
Rating: 7.1
Date: Oct 27, 2005 5:25 am PT
Review:  Quake4 an FPS ( First Person Shooter ) , the game is solid, has Doom III engine, but what makes 
 it not interesting is that it has the same feeling as any normal Quake game, specially Quake3 Arena 
 type, 
  The Story is some what amazing and nicely plotted, i got the Special Edition and if you did then 
 dont watch the videos on the second DVD, they will just blow off some of the story for you ( assuming 
 you didnt read anything about it online ) , the weapons are good, but they are all old, considering 
 what they said in the videos, the new Lighting Gun, come on? where were u when the First Quake 
 was released? :) , the weapons are all old, nothing new if you played Quake and Quake2, then expect 
 no new weapons, the vehicles are lame really, you dont feel anything when you drive a hover tank, 
 i did not reach the mech yet, but hopefully it should work out better, Quake 4 is just an upgrade 
 in graphics for Quake III Arena, if you considering the Multiplayer, but in single player, the 
 game has a solid plot and it continues after Quake2 story finishes, the best thing about Quake4 
 is the Squad based combat, its nice to have someone beside you shooting and screaming at enemies, 
 you are part of a Squad called Rhino Squad, and it is full of good people, i like the voice acting, 
 its kinda nice, brings something into the game, Multiplayer, havent tried it, but am assuming after 
 all what people said that its just the same fast pace Quake III Arena DM ( DeathMatch ) or CTF 
 ( Capture The Flag ) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XxTuakisxX
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 27, 2005 12:26 am PT
Review:  Its the same old guy who never utters a word, but lets his action and arsenal of 10 guns do the 
 talking. There is a whole hell lot of baddies for him to point his BOOMSTICK ;) at and the rest 
 is history. Sounds boring ? Naw, its simple, good err... messy fun with lots of booms and odd pieces 
 of red meat flying all over.
  
  Not many games need to be innovative to make it good. Put it simply, I'm just a busy guy who has 
 to spend alot of time in the office (10 hours a day are norm for me, extra time isn't all that 
 rare at all) . At the end of the day, I just want to hold down the left click button to let off 
 some steam and not spend hours trying to solve a puzzle. Thus i like my games simple and Q4 is 
 simple. enormous fun and a major stress buster. That fits MY BILL.
  
  Brainless slaugther was what attracted me to FPS games back in 94 (whoopeedoo 11 years) in the 
 first place. A good old slaughterfest while barreling around with my biggest and nastiest gun I 
 can carry has always being very appealing to me. Duke Nukem, Doomy, Quake, Wolfenstein, Serious 
 Sam, Heretic (Hexon 2 puzzles were pull my hair out ones so it won't feature here ;] ) , CnC: R, 
 Max Payne etc are all good examples. 
  
  Enough of this backtracking, I will say Q4 is just great. Looks great, feels great and let me bask 
 in the glory days of my youth when I was thinking myself as Rambo and I'm toting enough firepower 
 to blow up a tank company and maybe some more. Q4 might be an old school fps packed into a shinier 
 package with lots of bangs and whistles, but hey, that is good enough for me ! People are just 
 getting too demanding nowadays. SP is fantastic and MP is basically Q3 again and there is NOTHING 
 WRONG with Q3 styled DM, which is still the epitome of skill.
  
  I'm still alittle disappointed with the missing chaingun and its 1500 round per min Rof (yes i 
 was a Q2 nut and i actually calculated the RoF of the chaingun) , the BFG and my Super shotgun !!! 
 But oh well at least we have the Thunderbolt and the Nailgun back. Damn ID / Raven should make 
 a D4 / Q5 with ALL the weapons we love ;) .
  
  Anyway props to Raven for remaking such an ol school game. Don't let the negative comments and 
 reviews get ye down ! There are many many ol schoolers out there so your work is still appreciated 
 !
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: aristonrr
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 26, 2005 11:49 pm PT
Review:  The good: Quake looks great - the typical Quake look is paired with beautiful lighting, stunningly 
 detailed characters and jaw-dropping effects. There is always something happening, this game is 
 trimmed of any fat. Huge bosses, vehicles (especially the walker is well done) , enemies that require 
 different tactics. etc. The player is accompanied by other marines, who are well animated. The 
 voices are extremely well done (check Peter Stormare, for instance) and are not in the usual gee-what-a-tough-guy-I-am 
 gist. ~10 hours of great, immersive singleplayer, and many many more in multiplayer: Quake 3's 
 fast gameplay (still my personal mp favourite) has survived.
  
  The bad: Levels are linear. Not enough maps for multiplayer. No points for originality, the story 
 isn't really a story and the levels spew out enemies in predictable places. Enemy A. I. is fair, 
 but not as good as one would expect nowadays (see Far Cry, FEAR, Half-Life 2...) . Difficulty is 
 a little high - make one mistake and your health is way down, and hard to replenish, because medkits 
 and armor are sometimes strangely placed.
  
  The ugly: No bots. Where are the bots?? Aaaargh. Hmpf.
  
  The bottom line: I loved every minute. 
 The game is taut and gripping, so that the drawbacks didn't bother me at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cdn_bacon
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 26, 2005 4:46 pm PT
Review:  Quake 4 hit the shelves with mixed reviews from scores in the 70's to scores in the 90's, it was 
 really hard to know what to expect with this one. When it is all said and done though, Q4 was wortht 
 he wait and it brings you back to the good old days when Quake was the ultimate FPS on the market. 
 
  
  The game takes place right after Quake 2 on the planet of the Strogg. You play a different Marine 
 this time who was sent in with his mates to finally end this war. Right off the bat, Quake 4 seems 
 a little different from what you are used to. You get a sense of how big the planet is, no more 
 cramped hallways (for now) . You are out in the trenches fighting a war with a squad. Raven pulls 
 off the War feeling pretty good to, it will remind you of Call of Duty at times, with the sounds 
 of the battles all around, the radio chatter of soldiers dying and the constant explosions. They 
 even through in some vehicle levels that were a nice touch, but a little to quick. 
  
  The gameplay is awesome. The enemy has a great AI. They will take cover, block your shots with 
 shields, and wait for the perfect time to get you. Your Squad is pretty smart too. They will pick 
 up on enemies pretty quick, and don't seem to get stuck or fall behind to much. They will heal 
 you, repair your armour and upgrade your weapons when needed. The gameplay is intense from the 
 begining and can force you to think a little bit ore that the average FPS will. 
  
  Graphics are simply beautiful, but it is to be expected when built on the Doom 3 engine. Lighting, 
 effects and just overall depth will blow you away at times. It comes at a price though. You need 
 a pretty descent PC to run this stuff on low, let alone high! There are tips and tricks out there 
 to improve your rate, you just gotta look. 
  
  The voice acting is pretty good, really keeps you invloved in the story. The background sund is 
 cool, very different from Doom 3, more sounds of battle then sounds of Hell. 
  
  Only complaint in the game has to do with the major twist that takes place half way through. I 
 just wish this twist wasn't shown by id at E3 and in the screenshots. It would have been even better 
 if I didnt know it was coming. The ending battle was a little on the weak side too. I had a harder 
 time with mid game bosses than with the final battle. 
  
  Replay value with FPS' is endless once the mods and expansion packs hit the net, you will be playing 
 this one for a long time. In the end Quake 4 is just what I expected, a high action, high intensity 
 shooter with beautiful graphics and awesome gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gregcthekid
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 26, 2005 1:32 pm PT
Review:  Caution......... small spoiler, but nothing the developers haven't wanted you to know already.
 
  
  Some people can never be satisfied. Those that are giving this game low marks, I just don't get. 
 
  I found this game to be very good in all facets, and couldn't stop playing once I started, because 
 it was one cool scenario after another. Personally, I'm rarely in to multi-player anyway, so this 
 wasn't a factor. 
  The hovertank section was a blast, and it kinda reminded me of the wild airboat ride in HL2. There 
 are some brutal scenes of what the Strogg are doing to humans. One of many is the part where after 
 you're captured, and wake up strapped to a pod on moving line, there is another guy in front of 
 you. Having to watch what happens to him, and knowing you're next, is totally creepy. There are 
 sections where you are alone with, usually, the exception of radio communications, but there is 
 also lots of interaction with other soldiers, though your character never speaks. This variety 
 was welcomed in my opinion.
  The graphics are awesome. There are some very cool outdoor scenes, especially from the upper floors 
 of Strogg skyscapers, as well as amazing indoor areas with advanced machinery. The Strogg 'processing' 
 factory immediately comes to mind.
  The 'things' that you will battle throughout this game look amazing........ the 'Harvesters' were 
 something to behold, and I thought they were even better looking than the Striders in HL2.
  Another thing I liked, was that you are not in non-stop firefights....... there are moments of down 
 time, such as when you are picked up and transported on to an orbiting battlecruiser where you 
 can roam around and check it out.
  I could go on and on, but I will just say that I'm going to play through this game again immediately, 
 in order to soak up the whole experience even more.
  One last thing........... I did think the game could have been a little longer, and they could have 
 done a bit more with the ending, but it definitely did what it was supposed to do......... and that's 
 make it so you can hardly wait for Quake 5! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MisfitsDanzing
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 26, 2005 11:46 am PT
Review:  counter-strike source, dod source.. games meant for online! only i like a few im not a hardcore 
 nerd :-P. but yeah quake, quake2, and quake 4 were awesome!!! but who ever loves the quake 3 online 
 thing it was made for those people they even said it.. they didnt want make a game new online if 
 u already love the one they already made! i cant believe i can still play this game on Ultra High 
 with a x700 pro its awesome in computer life i could play it that detailed. so anyone reading this 
 review dont crap on quake cuz it was a badass game!!! and thats all i have to say.. ohh if u love 
 doom 3? with a blend of Hl2 this is ur game!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fibre_Optix
Rating: 7.8
Date: Oct 26, 2005 10:45 am PT
Review:  Quake 4 is a fun bang'em up single player game. I'm not that carzy about the Multiplayer though. 
 
  
  Anyway, what can you expect from Quake 4? Good graphics and fun gameplay. Out side of that there 
 is nothing new here. The story.... well to be honest there is'nt one, it's a Starship troopers 
 like storyline. The gameplay is the same as alot of older sci-fi FPS games in fact this is DOOM 
 just with a QUAKE shell. But does that matter when your playing a game like QUAKE. No. Just have 
 a good time with it. Go shoot stuff. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nightfend
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 26, 2005 9:11 am PT
Review:  I bought Quake 4 to support Id and Raven. I wasn't sure how good it would be as GameSpots review 
 was not the greatest. But, after loading it up, I was really impressed. I played about 8 hours 
 last night, and only with great effort was I able to pull myself away from the game (red eyed and 
 very tired) . Quake 4 has an epic storyline similar in tone to Halo. The NPC AI is really good, 
 and unlike Doom 3, where you are by yourself the majority of the time, in Quake 4, NPC companions 
 tend to follow behind you in much of the storyline. The game really makes you feel like you are 
 fighting a war on an alien world against overwhelming odds. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: magicianky
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 26, 2005 8:34 am PT
Review:  When I first saw a trailer for Quake 4 at my local EBGames, I was very intrigued. For one, it was 
 one of the bloodiest trailers I had ever seen for a game. For another, having NEVER played Quake 
 before (except for a quick little stint with Quake 3 Arena at a school LAN party) , the story sparked 
 my interest. That's right, I said the story in a first-person shooter attracted me to the game. 
 After all something has to do it, seeing as how I do not like to play against people, with people 
 is fine, but I will not play against people. With that being said, let's check out the story.
 
  
  The war between the humans and the alien race known as the Strogg has moved to the Strogg home 
 world, adequately named Strogos. If you've seen the original Starship Troopers, then the opening 
 sequence will seem very familiar to you. A fleet of human gunships approach Strogos, there is a 
 monstrous gun shooting them out of space, one dropship, i. e. yours, happens to get through, you 
 run off and kill everything. For a while at least. 
  
  You play as Matthew Kane, the man you managed to sneak into Strogg territory and kill the Strogg 
 leader, the Makron, throwing the Strogg into minor disarray and prompting the human assault on 
 Strogos. Roughly one-third of the way through the game, and this is no spoiler since it's been 
 in every Quake preview video I've seen since E3, Kane gets captured and, for lack of a better word, 
 Strogginated. In a first-person view, you watch as Kane is transformed into a Strogg. By far one 
 of the coolest sequences in any game I've played in a while, that's for sure.
  
  Now I must admit, having been disappointed with both versions of Doom 3 (I eventually got bored 
 and kicked in God mode just to see the rest of the game) , I had mixed emotions as I installed Quake. 
 One thing I hate to do is compare one game to another, because I get tired of people saying, "This 
 game is good, but it's no Half-Life 2", or my personal favorite, "Zelda is cool, but it's no Halo 
 2." At any rate, playing Quake reminded a bit of playing Doom, with notable similarities and differences. 
 
  
  The first thing I noticed was how much the graphics engine just didn't seem to do very well in 
 outdoor environments. Indoors everything looks smooth, nice and textured, clean. Outside everything 
 not 5 feet in front of you is kinda fuzzy and muddled. And even though the system requirements 
 for Quake are higher than they were for Doom, Quake just didn't look as good as Doom indoors. Odd, 
 but true. 
  
  Sound was great, from ambient noise, to the usual lack of background music, to the sound of your 
 weapons firing and clicking when you are out of ammo. Nothing groundbreaking, but still good.
 
  
  What amazed me the most is just how much fun I had playing through Quake. I don't usually replay 
 shooters, but Quake I may give another go at, try things a little differently. All in all, I would 
 recommend Quake 4 to anyone that enjoys first-person shooters with a story besides run-around-kill-everything. 
 Because it's just plain fun, and that's what gaming is all about, having fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alexc0000
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 26, 2005 7:01 am PT
Review:  This games truly shows us what to expect from coming next gen games graphics wise and multiplayer 
 wise. The game is really immersive you have tenency to think that you are actually there as you 
 keep playing the game. The HDR in the game has been completely redone since Doom 3 debut ealier 
 this year. Instead of having to have your flashlight seperate from your gun there are now specific 
 guns that have it attached to them (Pistol and Machine Gun) . The multiplayer plays very smoothly 
 even online on jsut standard connections (DSL) . It's nearly lag free even at such high graphic 
 quality I myself get very good FPS and up down speed in online multiplayer. Overall if your interested 
 in the multiplaye buy it. IF you don't have multiplayer capabilites check it out first and read 
 more reviews on it before making your decision. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Homein_Sugo
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 26, 2005 6:43 am PT
Review:  For the persons who knows all the games of Quake, this one in my opinion is the better one i played 
 since Quake 1. This new one is nearly perfect. All the grafic efects are refined till a performance 
 only compared to the animation movies like madagascar or ice age 2. The gameplay as great improvements, 
 like we can drive a tank, i dont know if we can drive anothers spaceships, because i dont finhis 
 yet the game. The audio is awesome, whit some creepy screams from the "monsters". The scenarios 
 from the game are something like Doom3, but it has wide open spaces, like Halo. In fact this is 
 one great game for who spent more than a month playing Quake, or Quake 2, like me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RandallsRaiders
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 26, 2005 5:04 am PT
Review:  RAVEN SOFTWARE brings the Quake Series back with superb graphics and continuing storyline... OK... 
 the storyline continues where Q3 left off... Q4 runs on the Doom 3 engine... so you can expect 
 dark and shadowy... the action is intense and increases in intensity at each level of play.. the 
 weaponry is an upgraded cool mix that will do the damage needed... the various battle locations 
 keeps you in the game... taking you from deep inside the Strogg strongholds to amazing vistas on 
 the planet surface... the cut scenes, graphically, are the best... like FarCry or HL2 the value 
 in Q4 is in the replaying of the game... it is an exciting ride and well worth your time... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jweier
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 26, 2005 4:20 am PT
Review:  I play FPSs to blow stuff up and release a little steam after work. But it seems that ever since 
 Theif II, every FPS requires the player to sneak around and kill enemies from behind. (e. g. Splinter 
 Cell.) I hate sneaking around and trying to stay out of trouble. I do that at work and at home. 
 
  
  Quake 4 is a glorious return to the run and gun, instictual, twitchy FPSs of the late nineties. 
 It reminds me why I started playing video games in the first place. I only hope that more video 
 game developers follow Quake 4's lead. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bodylotion
Rating: 7.7
Date: Oct 26, 2005 1:56 am PT
Review:  
  You're Matthew Kane an Elite soldier, fighting the Aliens who conquered Earth. Playing within a 
 squad you must face the evil wraths and destroy every one of them. 
  
  The story seems pretty standard and it kind off is too. When playing the game you've gotta do missions 
 with your squad but also with other squads. First times i played the game i tried to keep the teammates 
 alive but i found out it doesn't really matter for the rest of the game. 
  
  When playing the game for the first time i really didn't feel that well in the game. Quake 4 obviously 
 looks but also feels like Doom 3. 
  Quake 4 really is Doom 3 without having to scare your ass off every minute. That was the real main 
 part that made Doom 3 amazing. 
  
  What makes Quake 4 worth to play then? Well Quake 4 still has some nice features Doom 3 didn't 
 have. Even though it has the same engine, Q4 can manage more and bigger enemies or flying objects 
 on your screen. Maybe Doom3 Could also render that but they just didn't :P. 
  
  Also playing with the squads is also kinda cool, especially when you lose someone of your team 
 and how the squad responds to that. 
  
  Quake 4 basically is another 3D-Shooter where you don't really have to think what to do , just 
 shoot. This could be fun too though.
  
  
  Like i already said: a copy of Doom 3, nevertheless still nice especially the huge spaceship and 
 other big things.
  
  
  Nothing really special. The radio voices are kinda cool when you hear squad members getting killed, 
 but apart of that nothing really new.
  
  I don't think you'll play the game another time, because killing the enemy's in Q4 ain't that fun 
 like in F. E. A. R. . However the Difficulty is much harder in Q4. 
  
  If you've already played F. E. A. R. . But still want another shooter buy this one. If you haven't 
 played F. E. A. R. but have a lot of time, play Q4 first and after that play F. E. A. R. 
  If you don't have a lot of time and money, just buy F. E. A. R. 
  
  Quake 4 is a good game but 
 not revolutionary in any way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: a_nacond_a
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 26, 2005 12:39 am PT
Review:  One of the things in Doom3 was that i had to stop every half an hour to stop my hart from jumoing 
 out of my chest with fright. I like Quake 4 more , not just because of it's great graphics , but 
 also about the ongoing action , and that i finished it in 2 days. The playability of the game is 
 just very smooth and the difficulty is just right. Trying the Multi-player now and that is something 
 i loved all these years. I like it when they take that key elements of a very successfull multi-player 
 and just change the graphics and physics to make a newer version of an old game. Just like they 
 did Counter Strike Source. Just a superb game and will recommend it for everyone! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rmj
Rating: 7.9
Date: Oct 25, 2005 10:01 pm PT
Review:  More fun then i thought it would be !
  reminded me alot of Doom3 but graphics not as good but it turned out to be a much more fun game! 
 
  The tank was hard to handle but that was a small part of the game. REAL 5.1 AUDIO so nice to hear 
 things that are behind U! levels were a little too small and there is a lot of back tracking! And 
 some rather real scary moments . Your team mates get in the way often but they do help in a large 
 fire fight!
  This is my first Quake game and am looking forward to the next 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MegaBassX
Rating: 6.2
Date: Oct 25, 2005 9:15 pm PT
Review:  I did wait for quake 4 for many years, i did think it was very cool, i like this game but i find 
 it too much like Quake 2, some chapters are similar that old Quake 2, at begin i think it's much 
 better but ..... is too similar a Quake 2, the monsters some are the same but in new version, i 
 like the new ones but i did think the game have new ones, but are too many
  
  la onda es que yo esperaba que Quake 4 fuera mejor pero no tan parecido a Quake 2, algunos escenarios 
 son similares, pense que iban a haber nuevos monstruos pero algunos son como nuevas versiones de 
 los que salen en Quake 2, el juego esta mucho mejor, mejores graficas, pero realmente esperaba 
 algo mucho mejor, algo mas novedoso que en juegos como half life 2, Star Wars: republic comando. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ccrathe
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 25, 2005 6:38 pm PT
Review:  This game, put simply, is amazing fun. The single player campaign is involving and never really 
 gets boring. The few levels using the vehicles do seem a bit out of place in the game but they 
 are few and far between so it is really not a big issue. The campain features some good old fashioned 
 boss fights worthy of the Quake name.
  
  The multiplayer is almost a direct copy of the Q3 online gameplay, with better graphics. It is 
 fast paced and intense. The maps that shipped with the game are well designed and feel great, even 
 though there are only a few of them.
  
  This game is addictive and is recommendable to anyone with a PC powerful enough to run it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: apennismightier
Rating: 6.7
Date: Oct 25, 2005 2:01 pm PT
Review:  While this game I'm sure is going to be labeled as a complete rip off of DOOM 3, it pretty much 
 is. I loved Doom 3 and I like the engine it runs on, but the story for Quake 4 is boring at first, 
 and doesn't leave much to be desired. The game is very linear like Doom 3 but has a much more simplified 
 control system that most FPS games, which leaves me wanting more. The graphics are impressive but 
 still not as impressive as the Doom 3 graphics. The bad guys are easy to kill, even on hard. The 
 multiplayer has to make up for it, and somewhat does, but still just another FPS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpeedRunnerx
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 25, 2005 12:47 pm PT
Review:  Single player is very solid and has a great feel to it. I played the game non stop for hours. I 
 love it. If you want a good game to buy, buy Quake 4. The single player feels like a cross between 
 Doom 3 and Halo 2. Which is not bad at all. I wish there was alitle more story in it, though. And 
 it would have been nice if Kane actually had a voice!
  
  Multiplayer is going to be a blast for Quake 3 fans. It definatly has the Quake 3 feel. If you 
 loved Quake 2 and 3, you will love Quake 4. If you are new to the Quake series, than this is the 
 perfect game to start with. Buy it now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: magic_elf
Rating: 7.1
Date: Oct 25, 2005 12:48 pm PT
Review:  OK I waited 4 years for this game I just finish with it took me like 7 hours to do so and its 
 alright its kind of sad and easy at the beginning but then it gets kind of interesting its cool 
 but not great. Try to give it a chance and you will like it. I think that theres like 15 chapters 
 first you start at the this base were you landed at and then try to get to the 4 main towers were 
 you have to destroy there core at the end when you finally pass every thing your just getting happy 
 and then they strike you in the face and tell you that theres quake 5 coming . Will wait for quake 
 5; ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: n1dal
Rating: 8.4
Date: Oct 25, 2005 11:47 am PT
Review:  The game is very beautiful 4 me ... becouse I think graphic i soo g00d ( : ... maybe little wrong 
 is 'sound' ,but thats not problem. My squad will get extracted back to a capital ship for reassignment. 
 Here, you'll get to explore the ship, similar to how you could explore Voyager in Raven's Elite 
 Force games...
  That's very good part of the game.
  
  In Quake 4, I will be armed with a fairly standard collection of weapons that may have originated 
 in the Quake II universe - but that doesn't mean they're all identical. You'll start the game with 
 only a blaster, which has infinite ammo and can be charged up for a more powerful SHOT !
  
  Of course , great marks ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nhlkoho
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 25, 2005 8:37 am PT
Review:  I've read some reviews about how this game's single player game is horrible and the multiplayer 
 is crap. Your wrong on both of these! If you looked back on reviews from quake 3 everyone gave 
 it such a phenominal rating for a great multiplayer experience. I played both games on my PC and 
 could barely tell the gameplay apart besides from the incredible graphics improvement. The only 
 thing that was significantly different was the rate of fire of the rocket launcher in Quake 4. 
 It was a little too slow firing a rocket and it made it difficult doing rocket jumps and takes 
 time getting used to. 
  The single player game is great also! It takes the incredible graphics from Doom 3 and a lot of 
 the great gameplay Doom had and increased the speed a little. The game is not as fast paced as 
 Unreal games or the original Quake game but its fast enough.
  I'm tired of people who review games saying that games are so much alike these days and give them 
 crappy ratings. However, they are always comparing games to one another and complaining that they 
 don't play the same. Make up your damn minds and do your job. If its a good game then give it a 
 good rating. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dotcartoon
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 25, 2005 7:35 am PT
Review:  Quake 4 Looks Great, Games Using Doom 3's Engine Normally Do. But Quake 4 not only boasts Graphics 
 It Plays Superbly Too.
  
  Now I was a fan of Quake 3 Arena, who wasnt. I was also a fan of the Unreal Tournament Series. 
 Both of these games got to the point With There Death match only setups. So when I started to play 
 Quake 4 I was a bit upset that it was a story based action game instead of A Death match format. 
 I thought I would be sitting watching video after video to explain the story. I was wrong. Quake 
 4 has Short Cut Scenes Which, thanks to the graphics and 'Get to the point and Get to the action' 
 Type Movies, makes the game very playable.
  
  Now Im sure at this point you're thinking wait , why play a game without a story or cut scenes, 
 well I have nothing against them but normally I just want to get the action. I love games such 
 as metal gear solid. That are heavily cut scene based but when I hear the name quake I want to 
 get to the point. So Luckily Quake 4 doesnt have long cut a scene, now thats out of the way we 
 can get to the real review.
  
  The Game play? Quake 4 is one of those Simplistic Game play Games but they have thrown in tanks, 
 jeep turrets and a lot more spilt up the simple shooting. Well I say simple shooting but it works 
 really well. Enemies are smart, and you have marines along side you most of the time which actually 
 do kill enemies, which is a change from the normal ' im here to help you as a standing target' 
 that you find in other games. The Tank Missions are ok but lack variety. But Game play is overall 
 not that far off perfect.
  
  The Graphics? Theres not much I can say on the graphics side. But I have a Radeon 9600Pro which 
 runs most games at medium or high setting but I think i'm going to have to upgrade soon. You will 
 need a high end graphics card to truly appreciate this game. I have to have the game on the lowest 
 graphics settings. Despite that the game still looks amazing. Im sure that on most new graphics 
 cards this game would look a lot better.
  
  The Sound? The sound is great if you have played the first level in doom 3 where you can talk to 
 anyone the whole game of quake 4 is just like that. The marines have a lot of different sayings 
 unlike the strogg, who seem to repeat them selfs allot. It gets a bit repeataive after a while 
 but the scenic music and sounds put that out of the window.
  
  Value? Well For single player fans then this game is for you, Multiplayer is just Quake 3 which 
 isnt a bad thing but. Quake 3 as more Maps. But soon with the Mod Support that Quake 4 offers 
 this will be worth the money. 
  
  Well Overall If you love A Single player game, with Incredible Graphics, memorable Battles, Variety 
 in Most Areas, and if you hated the fact that in doom 3 they jumped out at out all time from behind, 
 then Quake 4 is the game for you. If you wanted a Multiplayer game then this is also the game for 
 you if you loved quake 3. But With its mod support Multiplayer will only get better you might just 
 have to wait a while for your online thrills.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Inz512
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 25, 2005 4:44 am PT
Review:  Quake 4 sets off at the end Quake 2, when the Lone Marine defeats the Makron, and it allows for 
 an all out land invasion by the marines. The game starts with you (Mathew Kane) and your Team, 
 Rhino Squad, being deployed on the surface of the alien world. Your ship is shot down, and you 
 team split up. You need to find your team, regroup and push on with the mission.
  
  The game is beautifully designed with the Doom 3 engine, but without the dark atmosphere. The shadows 
 are extremely well done, and you often find your jaw 
  on the floor because you just can't believe how good it looks. Some scenes look so good you feel 
 like you are watching a movie.
  The Multiplayer is great as well, it has been designed to feel like Quake 3, with the fast paced 
 action that Q3 brought us. So if you're a fan of quake 3, but have been awaiting a game similar 
 but with better graphics then look no further.
  Raven have done a great job with this title. If you havn't already played Quake 4, then you are 
 missing out on one of the best games of this year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: onurta
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 24, 2005 10:38 pm PT
Review:  Well, this is the game that Doom 3 should have been last year. When I was installing, I was sure 
 to see a terrible Doom clone, but hey, Quake 4 is very very good. There really is a good single 
 player story, graphics are fantastic and the action is surprisingly good. Dont expect the dark, 
 creepy atmosphere of Doom, Quake is more fast paced and in my opinion, looks sharper.
  
  One thing, that I noticed, on Normal difficulty, the game is somewhat easy that you can progress 
 without much Save/Load. 
  
  The game is a must for the fans of the series and any FPS loving player.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ergo2497
Rating: 8.4
Date: Oct 24, 2005 7:53 pm PT
Review:  Let's get this straight: Quake 4 doesn't do pretty much anything new. The one thing that is slightly 
 innovative about this game is that some of your weapons get upgraded over time. Other than that, 
 the gameplay is similar to that of the previous games in the Quake series, with the addition of 
 some gameplay sequences and ideas obviously lifted from games like Halo and Half-Life.
  
  That said, Quake 4 is pretty fun to play. The mechanics are the simple, tried and true ones: you 
 have an assortment of cool-looking guns, and you shoot a whole lot of monsters. Sure, you occaisionally 
 have some A. I. controlled squadmates who'll give you a hand (the most useful being the ones who 
 can heal you or repair your armor) , but most often it's just you and the bad guys. The good news 
 is, those enemies are a bit more intelligent than the ones in Doom 3, and there's a fair amount 
 of variety to them. The guns feel pretty meaty and, while initially not terribly well-balanced, 
 become moreso when upgraded.
  
  Quake 4 is a pretty straight-forward game: often your path will be linear, with a little occaisional 
 backtracking. There are occaisional vehicular sequences and one or two puzzles to break up the 
 action, but these are mostly forgettable. This game is about action, and the occaisional bit of 
 cinematic flair, such as the unfortunately spoiled Stroggification sequence. This little plot twist 
 (which I won't go into detail about here) would've been amazing, on par with that of Halo, if they 
 hadn't gone and given it away right when they announced the game.
  
  Quake 4 really shines best with its graphics. The game runs fairly smoothly if you've got a decent 
 machine (I played it on a 3.2 GhZ P4 H-T, with 1 GB of RAM and a GeForce 6800) and you don't put 
 it on the "Ultra" graphics setting, which causes some lag. It's a very pretty game as well, with 
 wonderful shader and shadow effects, the one downside being a somewhat cheesy smoke effect.
  
  The multiplayer is also nothing to write home about, hence the low value score this has been 
 given in most reviews. You'll like this game if you like a good, straight-up gory single player 
 FPS, with a couple of interesting plot twists and enough action to fill a week or two of play (the 
 game is on the short side) . To buy or not to buy? It's up to you, but it's definitely worth it 
 to give Quake 4 a spin. Think of it as Doom 3... Except better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ninjaboy_99
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 24, 2005 6:31 pm PT
Review:  I dont get why all the internet sites are basically slamming this game. It looks AMAZING (which 
 we should have expected since it uses the Doom 3 engine, it plays great, the storyline is way more 
 than what I had expected for a single player game, and it had the feeling of a movie all the way 
 through. 
  
  The point Id like to get across in this review is although the multiplayer may be lacking, there 
 are those of us (myself included) who dont give a DAMN about multiplayer. I dont care to play against 
 other people over and over again in a mindless cycle (props to counterstrike, though, gotta respect) . 
 When I buy a game like Quake 4 or Doom 3, Im investing in the storyline and the gameplay. I couldnt 
 give a crap if the multiplayer is good or bad, since Im not even going to play online. 
  
  To have a game tank in the ratings simply because the multiplayer is lacking shouldnt happen. I 
 always see games get great reviews, and then the death knell: "but the multiplayer kinda stank" 
 and then the rating goes to crap. 
  
  Quake 4 was an excellent game for my money, and I dont care if it even has multiplayer at all. 
 I felt like I was in a movie the way the squad moves around you and interacts with their environment. 
 There were times in the game when Id be in a dark corridor and my squad and I would flick on the 
 flashlights and Id feel as if I was in a movie. It was that real. 
  
  Bottom line, I think the guys up at Id and Raven did an outstanding job with Quake 4, and if you 
 havent bought it already, you should hurry up and grab it. Screw what gamespot and everyone else 
 out there says, this game is exceptional. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dthwish09
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 24, 2005 6:11 pm PT
Review:  Quake 4 is the single best FPS on the market... it kicks F. E. A. R.'s ass by a landslide. Also the 
 multiplayer adds lots of replay-ability and you will keep comeing back for more.. all in all a 
 very well designed game that is Quake 4.
  
  Quake 4 is the single best FPS on the market... it kicks F. E. A. R.'s ass by a landslide. Also the 
 multiplayer adds lots of replay-ability and you will keep comeing back for more.. all in all a 
 very well designed game that is Quake 4.
  
  Quake 4 is the single best FPS on the market... it kicks F. E. A. R.'s ass by a landslide. Also the 
 multiplayer adds lots of replay-ability and you will keep comeing back for more.. all in all a 
 very well designed game that is Quake 4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Reggy15
Rating: 7.3
Date: Oct 24, 2005 4:56 pm PT
Review:  when it comes down to it this game has great graphics on high ( but you need a good computer for 
 that) . The single player is very fun but at some parts it could be tough . In the long run this 
 game does not have much to offer because the multiplayer is lacking at best i would say this was 
 a good rentel but since its on PC if you had to pick between buying it or not ever playing it then 
 just dont buy it .
  
  If you are a Quake fan then maybe buy it other wise you are not going to like it all that much 
 .
  
  + Good graphics
  + Fun single player
  
  - Not a long term investment
  - If you are not a Quake Fan you are not going to like the multiplayer 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ev0l
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 24, 2005 4:41 pm PT
Review:  Quake 4 is great! I dont know what these people are smoking that have been rating it poorly. The 
 single player is FUN. Gameplay is way better than in D3. Tons of enemy's blasting away at you! 
 The missions are plentiful and are fast paced. It is kinda COD like with missions where you need 
 to get somewhere or escort someone with your squad. You will NOT get bored. I don't see how everyone 
 expects the to revolutionize the genre. They created it. everything has been done. Multiplayer 
 is great to, no, nothing innovating but still damn fun. The game is like iwaht Quake 3 would have 
 been like witha single player campaighn and better graphics. This game is FUN FUN FUN. nuff said. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snakeofsolid
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 24, 2005 4:09 pm PT
Review:  Although the gameplay of quake 4 is still basically the same, its just a wonderfully old school 
 game with amazing graphics! The single player is pretty fun and has its great moments, and if you 
 can run doom 3 great, no doubt you can run this game, since its the same engine, tho slightly improved. 
 The sound is good, except for the machine gun, quite possible one of the most annoying gun sounds 
 ever concieved. 
  Now MP seems to be the thing that most people are totally dissapointed about, the thing here is, 
 the MP is just quake 3 and this really isnt a bad thing!
  Quake3s MP was fast and fun which is exactly how quake 4 is, people are always wanting something 
 NEW, i mean this is just one of those games that comes along to remind you of how the good old 
 days of multiplayer was, is that a crime? Sometimes, I, really dont want a new concept every single 
 game! BF2 is great CSS is great, but this is just an old school shooter that you will surely be 
 addicted to, the only thing is to never overhype a game!
  i bought the collectors edition for 44 dollars ( the regular CD one was 37 dollars) and the main 
 reason you would want to get it is because it just loads faster overall than the CD version, Quake 
 2 is also included, so thats worth it if you are a fan of it.
  If youre a fan you should probably buy this game sometime soon, if not then just wait for it to 
 get cheaper, overall its a pretty fun game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bartoldosc
Rating: 8.2
Date: Oct 24, 2005 4:04 pm PT
Review:  Nice multiplayer game , but movement are not like ut2004 dodge : ( ... are more static but realistic. 
 Weapons are great and a lot of item very good for a multiplayer fps nice game and good graphics 
 but no dodge or walldodge and few map 1vs1 for now .... graphic interface for browser is little 
 bit poor .... maybe was a better game if they look to the future and not to the past! There are 
 a lot of server and clan but i don't think to play for a lot this game ..... nothing of new it's 
 the same game like doom and fps whit nice graphic but gameplay is oldstyle.... there isn' t the 
 idea to make a good integration whit voice chat and also... you need to buy the game there's no 
 demo.... it's not a good 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Count_F
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 24, 2005 11:07 am PT
Review:  Quake series has clearly brought an intense FPS experience, to the gaming community worldwide. 
 Quake 4 is no exception, but it carries a certain Doom 3 feel all over itself. 
  
  Make no mistake, clearly graphics engine is superb, but the whole setting of the game; the blood 
 red planet (like Mars in Doom 3 but with breathable atmosphere) , dark corridors, and whole lot 
 of organ fueled machinery that resembles the Hell's invasion in Doom 3.
  
  Singleplayer is something that Quake fan must have wanted since the multiplayer debut of Quake 
 3, full of intense combat, an unsuspected turnover in story and vehicle combat, although fighting 
 in walkers or hover tanks is new to Quake series its kind of sloppy and unrealistic. But multiplayer 
 has not prospered in all these years, same old Quake 3 with enhanced graphics... 
  
  Final thought; Quake 4 is worth playing purely for its singleplayer experience, but not recommended 
 for multiplayer lovers! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dmonicus
Rating: 2.8
Date: Oct 24, 2005 10:47 am PT
Review:  Way too much hype for this game. decent graphics, OK sounds, kind of like Doom 3, but not-so-much, 
 NOTHING like Q2 or Q3- in short- dont waste your money. Gameplay is OK, but if your looking for 
 an awesome multiplayer experience, wait for Enemy Territory: Quake Wars.
  Single player for it is quite a bit better with a kewl story line, but lets face it, we all buy 
 these games for the online experience, after all how much fun is it to blow away AI? Not sure why 
 iD could drop the ball on this, but make Doom 3 and RoE so awesome. Maybe perhaps when they get 
 a few mods out for it, I might try it again but I wasted $50 in my opinion. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pata
Rating: 3.2
Date: Oct 24, 2005 8:46 am PT
Review:  I bought Quake 4 while waiting for F. E. A. R. to come out. I wasn't sure I should buy it, but after 
 remembering all the fun I had playing Quake I and II, and feeling the need for an FPS for the weekend 
 I plunked down the (very costly) 54 euros to get it (I live in Spain) . 
  
  What a dissapointment. Straight off the bat I had monitor problems. I mean, how can this be? It 
 uses the same graphics engine as Doom 3 which had absolutely no problems on my Apple 20" cinema 
 display. Yet Quake would not render at anything higher than 1024x768! This is supposed to be the 
 pinnacle of technology, written by the god of gaming Carmack. How can it now work at anything but 
 a paltry 17" size? In that same vein, how come I have to quit Quake and restart it to adjust my 
 resolution when virtually every other shooter in the world will allow me to switch on the fly?
 
  
  Then, to add insult to injury, I rebooted and now my keyboard will not work. A PS2 keyboard which 
 refuses to operate once the OS is up. I have linux on the same box and the keyboard is fine on 
 that OS. I did not do anything else except install Quake, so what happened? I still don't know.
 
  
  But what about the gameplay you ask? You don't care about my technical woes, I understand. The 
 gameplay is reminiscent of Doom 3 which was crap to put it mildly. Yes, the graphics are amazing, 
 but the gameplay on Doom 3 was just skeletons and other things jumping out of dark spaces, yawn, 
 and very predictable. I find Quake to be very similar in this respect. As soon as you step into 
 a room, you know that once you take a couple of steps, things will start coming from around the 
 corners. And what's the deal with the torch (flashlight) ? I know it's the best way to show the 
 awesome lighting techniques that Carmack built, but I want a game I can play for fun, not a technology 
 demo. 
  
  All in all I wish I could take it back (can't do that here in Spain) since I feel I was robbed 
 of 54 euros, that's like 60 some dollars for you US denizens. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: heppionkeppi
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 24, 2005 6:25 am PT
Review:  Game was exactly as I thought it will be. If one likes Quakestyle moving, fast intensive fight 
 with no waiting and no second thoughts, this is the game. Ive enjoyed myself for days now, I simply 
 adore the control of the character, just like in previous version. Graphically this game is nice, 
 1024x768 high details 2xAA and 2xAF is what my computer is capable on playable level. It looks 
 fantastic. Not the most advanced game, graphically, out there, but nice enough. Without good computer 
 this game is nothing, cos with medium details without AA it doesnt looks that its even released 
 2005. This for true quakers its the way to go with any details. 
  
  2.65ghz venice, 1024mb 2-2-2-6-7-13-1-1-1t, 850xt pe 560mhz/1200mhz my fps is 40+ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KSHMA
Rating: 7.2
Date: Oct 24, 2005 5:42 am PT
Review:  That Quake 4 has arrived with such a muted fanfare is maybe telling. We all predicted in one of 
 our more glib moments of cynicism that it would essentially be a brown Doom III, and that's not 
 a million miles away from the truth. But you know what? Unlike a lot of people, I really dug Doom 
 III - particularly the latter third that few people got to see - but Quake 4 feels like an uninspired, 
 by-the-numbers sci-fi B-movie of a game with high production values. It's 'fun', for the nine, 
 ten hours it lasts, but only in the same brainless sense that allows us to enjoy dumb popcorn action 
 movies. It's only when you sit back and run through what's there you actually realise that there's 
 not a lot of substance to Quake 4, beyond being very pretty indeed. We were hoping for rather more 
 than a 'competent', 'fun' shooter out of Raven. Those words just sound insulting when you sit them 
 next to the words 'Quake' and '4', and perhaps that sums up just why we think it only deserves 
 a 7, and a low one at that. Shame.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ygarcia
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 24, 2005 3:24 am PT
Review:  AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME 
 AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME 
 AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME 
 AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME 
 AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME 
 AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME 
 AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME 
 AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME 
 AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME 
 AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dizzyk13
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 23, 2005 11:11 pm PT
Review:  its too bad that most of the people writing their own reviews barely spend any time actually playing 
 this game (in reading ive seen that some havent played the game at all) because this is truly a 
 fun and addictive game. on a graphical note, if you have a system to run it this game looks awesome. 
 ID is the master of shadows and lighting and im sorry to say that no one has come close. of course 
 the game could benefit from a much better sky texture, and some more diversity in the environments.. 
 but hey in reality how many different environments could one expect to find given the context of 
 the game. Quake 4 is little more than a huge overhaul in the quake 2 design in that its simplicity 
 is what keeps it fun. no lame puzzles to try and figure out (which seems to be common among shooters 
 nowadays) its just pure flash and thats what Quake does best. Enemy AI is exactly what you would 
 expect from zombie like cyborgs, they deffinately put up a fight but nothing new, (oh and i saw 
 a review comparing the ai for quake and fear) and sorry FEAR's AI has to be some of the crappiest 
 ive seen why in the world would an enemy try to jump over a pipe instead of shoot at me when im 
 3 feet away? Fear's ai gives the enemy's many different options but i rarely see them do anything 
 rational. but hey fear isnt bad either, they both have different themes, so why not buy em both, 
 get serious sam 2, while your at it there all pretty entertaining but quake 4 definetly shines..... 
 and wait till the mods start gettin pumped out and it will be well worth your 50 bucks! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anahita3000
Rating: 4.8
Date: Oct 23, 2005 9:32 pm PT
Review:  One Bad Game Or The End? I was really dissapointed. No doubt ,the voice acting of this game is good. If 
 you are a quake 3 fan, play this game however, It might make you stop being a quake fan, i personaly 
 expected much more from quake 4, helloo just look at the sky in the background and tell me What 
 is your perception of this graphic at the year 2005? This game would have been hot 2 years ago.. And 
 now .. lets talk about the Enemies of War and how your are going to kill em? i ll tell u it s easy, just 
 duck behind cover and jump back out again. They seem to forget you were there.. aiming is so easy 
 just click click click,,, The environments all look the same, and the level design is simple and 
 short! u walk back and forward in a small area in a circle to do the objectives, maybe 2 or 3 objectives 
 and you are done!
  
  Suggestions: Buy it used or rent it... not worth more than $ 25 
::::::

::::::
UserName: samfoote
Rating: 2.5
Date: Oct 23, 2005 7:47 pm PT
Review:  OK, now usually I'm not one to write a really bad review for a game. But unfortunatley as soon 
 as I crammed this disc into my computer I knew I was going to be unimpressed when it automatically 
 set my graphics too low quality with 640x480 resolution. so iI bumped upthe resolution and started 
 the game. After a cutscene that was way too jerky to watch i found myself looking at a warzone 
 in space.
  
  Also I noticed my gun and the textures around me had a VERY ditstincitve green tinge to them. Since 
 the game was running poorly on 800x600 resolution I exited and ran the game again on the low quality. 
 640x480. Still the green tinge existed but at least the game was smooth.
  
  Then later on the oppurtunity came to shoot something.... it wasn't satisfying at all. It was like 
 shooting a wall. I can't comment too much on things like storyline/multiplayer. But from what I 
 have seen this game is extremely poor.
  
  However if you have a decent computer and liked Doom III then this game might be just for you. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jsnx
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 23, 2005 6:47 pm PT
Review:  wow this game got a ok score it might ok been able to get a better score but i dont know much about 
 this game i heard it was.. ok game im going to look at a few videos and see what i think about 
 this game could get a better score over a few weeks personly its could be on my to do list or i 
 should say to buy list well dont have much more to say i might write another review if its good 
 enough well thanks for listening to my review im out for now bye. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shellback84
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 24, 2005 6:08 pm PT
Review:  I might have been a little hard on my write up of the game Quake 4 here on Gamespot but I am truly 
 afraid that the gamming industry is heading the same way Hollywood is and that is, all CGI and 
 no substance in the story. However, in all fairness to this game Quake4 I am retracting everything 
 I have written about it about two days ago. If that makes the people at Gamespot unhappy then I 
 am sorry. I am willing to lose my postive feed back to give this game the justace it deserves. 
 I have palyed it now for awhile and I am having a lot of fun with it and I feel the people out 
 there need to give it some time as it gets much better as you get into it more. The game writters 
 have done a great job with this game as it is a heck of a lot of fun and is dark story line in 
 a different way than Doom3.
  
  Pros: Great visuals and sound. Seems to be stable if you have a powerful enough computer to handle 
 the game. Keeps you on the edge of your seat. Neat dark story 
  
  Cons: Not quite as demanding as FEAR is but you will still need a top of the line system but you 
 might be able to set the settings a little higher. A fair to good score in 3DMark 2003 should be 
 enough. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tartagliam
Rating: 6.7
Date: Oct 23, 2005 5:54 pm PT
Review:  Just like F. E. A. R., I eagerly awaited the arrival of Quake 4. Was I satisfied? Let's get to the 
 ratings first:
  
  Gameplay (out of 10) :: 7
  Story (out of 10) :: 5
  Graphics (out of 5) :: 3
  Multiplayer (out of 5) :: 3
  
  As for story, it was a let down. 
 Why? Because the only big part of the plot was already released by Id over a month ago. (If you 
 don't know what it is, I won't say it.) But why would Id do that? I have yet to understand. Knowing 
 that what they disclosed would happen changed the whole gameplay experience. And other than that 
 one thing, there really isn't ny story. You get most of the story in the first 5 minutes of gameplay, 
 as the events of Quake 2 are re-told. BUT, sine the game does tie back to the awesomeness that 
 was Quake 2, I gave the story more points than it deserved.
  
  Now onto gampley, the best part of the game. But even though I say it is the "best" part, doesn't 
 mean it's the "best" game. Much akin to Doom 3, the levels are very repitious and some are even 
 down right boring. In an attempt to expand the gameplay time, they added in levels that are almost 
 identical to other ones. But when it gets down to it, the FPS aspects are pretty damn fun. The 
 new weapon system makes it seem as if there are more than 10 guns. (If you don't know about the 
 new system, I still won't ruin any of the experience for ya. You can thank me later...) BUT, I 
 must say that the new vehicle gameplay SUCKS. As with many new FPSs, you have levels where you 
 are stuck in a vehicle. Quake 4 tried to make this cool, but in turn only made me hate these levels 
 even more.
  
  Now onto graphics. Since Quake 4 uses the Doom 3 engine, I just couldn't get past the feeling that 
 I was playing Doom. The whole experience could be better if they atleast changed the engine in 
 some minor ways, but they didn't. The one thing that pissed me off the most: the lighting. When 
 you shine a light on a person, they didn't project a shadow. This meant that all the shadows and 
 lighting were already pre-programmed into the enviroment, which creates a lack-luster experience. 
 At this point, you may be saying "why 6 points then?" Why? 'Cus the Doom 3 engine is still pretty 
 damn good.
  
  Lastly, the multiplayer was almost, if not identical, to Quake 3. Half the maps in Quake 4 MP are 
 even from Quake 3 Arena itself. I loved Quake 3 Arena, but I won't give Quake 4 points for doing 
 the same exact thing. I was expecting a new experience, and got a carbon copy of an older one.
 
  
  Overall, this game got a very, very loose C+. (I almost gave it a C, but how can you give any Quake 
 series game a C? I almost felt ashamed.) 
  
  In the battle against F. E. A. R. and Quake 4 this week: F. E. A. R. won.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Powerofc3
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 23, 2005 5:07 pm PT
Review:  I'm not going to lie and say there's anything new about Quake 4. But the thing is you can't really 
 make anything new. Everything possible has been done before. It all started with Half-Life 1. Since 
 then every FPS game has followed a similar path. So expecting something completely new is naive 
 at best. It's like going out to see another Predator movie; you don't go to see story, you go to 
 see things get shot alot. Quake 4 and all other shooters should be looked at in the same way.
 
  
  Although shooters do follow a very similar path, lately alot of them just strait up fall short 
 even compaired to 1998's HL1. Doom3 was one of these failures in my opinion. Small rooms, too dark, 
 1 or 2 enemies at a time, no backup at all, and an over all small feeling to the whole game. Quake 
 4 did everything right that Doom3 did wrong. The levels get huge with expansive outdoor areas. 
 The weapons are powerful and practical (for a sci-fi shooter,) such as a light being mounted on 
 the assault rifel. You have allies that help you out, and bring on a feeling of a real war going 
 on, rather than just 1 guy killing 1 or two bad guys at a shot. Q4 throws 6 to 10 guys at you at 
 times. Which makes for a more hectic battle. 
  
  The graphics are amazing. Nothing revolutionary (nothing will be until Unreal Engine 3 games come 
 out,) but still the best that I've seen. Even compaired to FEAR.
  
  The sound is good and creepy, but could have been alittle higher quality.
  
  The gameplay is 
 what makes the game fun. It's an old school shooter mixed with everything that makes modern day 
 shooters great. 
  
  This is not a game to revolutionize the industry. Like I said nothing will for a very long time. 
 Other than graphic upgrades, and larger areas and battles, this is as good as the gameplay will 
 get. First game Doom1, then HL1, then Halo1... Halo pretty much finished up on everything they 
 couldn't do in the days of HL1. Drivable vehicles, Great AI, Large Levels. 
  
  In conclusion if you like shooters for being nothing more and nothing less than great shooters, 
 pick this game up and love it. If you don't want to spend money on a new game that's basically 
 the same experience you've already had, you're going to find yourself disappointed for a very long 
 time to come. Maybe you should try RPGs or something, but even they're all about just smashing 
 1 button over and over again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DrMatta
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 23, 2005 3:36 pm PT
Review:  My first thought when i started the first level was "Hey! This looks cool!",
  gazing to the background which was beautifully art rendered. 
  My second thought after 5 minutes 
 playing was, "This is pretty much
  Doom 3 only less scary", which isn't a bad thing actually.
  
  The thing with Quake 4 is that 
 it's actually Quake 2 only with the graphics of Doom 3. The weapons fire the same, the Stroggs 
 walk the same, the locations are pretty much the same too, only updated graphics.
  New, is the group-based shoot-out's you'll have through-out the game. These are quite fun and really 
 gives the "war" feeling to Q4.
  
  The graphics are a beauty ofcourse, and the game is pretty good on sounds.
  The only problem 
 is the System it requires to play; which is IMO, ridiculous.
  Minimum: 2ghz and 512mbram, for a game which pretty much looks the same
  as Doom 3. I think Raven 
 could've tuned a bit more to make it more accesible
  to lower-end computers, but oh well, that's not the case. I just find it awkward i can run Doom 
 3 on Ultra High, and have to put Q4 on Medium.
  
  The biggest problem the game suffers is it's length.
  Now i'm quite used to FPS being short, 
 but Q4 mostly consists out of 5-minute levels. At the first three i thought, okay.. you know, these 
 are the first levels, maybe they'll get longer with each one, but i was surprised when i finished 
 the game within 6 hours. I felt kinda ripped-off.
  Don't get me wrong, the levels look gorgeous, but all in all, it's kinda strange when a level is 
 only 4 hallways, and a big room.
  To make it "longer" they let you backtrack a few times in levels,
  but it doesn't work that good, 
 we're not stupid really.
  
  Multiplayer is nice, but i played Q3 years ago guys, come on now...
  That said, Quake 4 will 
 get FPS fans trigger happy, only to make then come short in the end, cause it's just too damn short 
 for 60 bucks.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nonamerrr5
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 24, 2005 9:43 pm PT
Review:  When i first read the reviews for this game i wasn't expecting much. However, I decided to buy 
 it anyways because I didn't like FEAR that much when i played it at my friend's house. Now while 
 this game doesn't offer anything new, it does refine the old ways of shooters to near-perfection. 
 Everything clicks and besides, it's just plain fun. The graphics are gorgeous and they scale down 
 really well. I'm running this on high settings at 1152x864 on my rig with a p4 2.8, 768 ram, and 
 9500 pro. Of course, i overclock, but i still didn't think i could run it this high. Anyway, the 
 multiplayer is ok, it brings me back to the days of the first UT and Q3 arena. However, it does 
 get pretty boring after a while. But that's not a problem, im sure the big huge quake community 
 will fix that in due time with new mods and maps. So overall, a good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gnomeslayer1423
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 23, 2005 1:52 pm PT
Review:  After checking the game out and playing it i wasnt pleased! I'd say this game is almost exactly 
 like Doom3 with different weapons, enemies and levels. Graphics are almost the same too and im 
 absolutely stunned that this game got a 10 for gfx and F. E. A. R. only got a 9 when i say the FEAR 
 is a much better looking game than Quake 4. This really is worth buying unless your a diehard Quake 
 Fan but if not save your money for something better!
  Doesnt deserve anything higher than a 6/10 already dropped the game after 30 minutes of playing 
 it was just to much like Doom3 for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: knightofflame
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 23, 2005 1:22 pm PT
Review:  After I face the challenging AI of FEAR , I found out that Quake IV AI is far more easier to handle 
 compared to FEAR . Compared to FEAR , Quake IV still base on a conceptShoot anything that moves 
, I mean in the Single player game . And yes , you can't shoot your teammates , Id software had 
 make it impossible to shoot your teammates in Single Player , but sometimes I really so pissed 
 off of my teammates , they blocked my only way out when I got gang bang my stroggs , I really hate 
 that man , if i am lucky enough i won't die but IF sh! t happens.... you know....
  
  I forgot a game , which your computer teammates will open up a way to let you flee if you are in 
 danger .... I like hat :P
  
  Anyway Quake IV is a impressive game in single player , due to the graphics and the story line 
 ( my opinion ) 
  
  Good Job Id 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrnose
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 16, 2006 9:24 am PT
Review:  Oh Kay, i have always been a fan of the Quake series, i think that quake's gritty and dark visuals 
 have always been perfectly suited to the FPS genre. Although i still love the other quake games 
 i have to say that my favorite out of them all was Quake 2, i really liked the strogg world and 
 storyline etc....
  This is why i like Quake 4 so much, because it is set in the same reality as Quake 2.
  
  First 
 off, the visuals in Quake 4 are absolutely jaw dropping. From the moment i started the game i had 
 to just walk around looking at the scenery, it is amazing. The graphics are very much like Doom 
 3 seen as though it is the same game engine; but i think they are much more improved.
  
  The weapons in the game are very very cool; in fact i didnt actually expect the weapons to be that 
 good, but i was wrong. There are alot of classic Quake weapons in the game and a few new ones aswell, 
 each of them different and powerful.
  One really cool thing that happens in the game is that you can get your weapons upgraded, to make 
 them much better, which is a really awesome feature.
  
  Even though i have not finished the single player game, Quake 4 is already one of the best and 
 most entertaining games i have ever played. It is an amazing achievement on almost every level 
 in my opinion.
  
  Nose.
  
  (Note - This game contains more blood and gore than i have seen in any other game........ ever. 
 HOW COOL IS THAT :D) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DrDobalina
Rating: 5.2
Date: Oct 23, 2005 6:00 am PT
Review:  I was really looking forward to this game, having enjoyed Doom 3, and the fantastic lighting effects. 
 Quake 4 has the same great visuals; better in fact, but a few problems have ruined the game for 
 me:
  
  1 - The bot AI frequently leaves your squad members blocking your path. At one point this happened 
 in a doorway, so there was no way to continue the level other than load a previous save-point and 
 start again (no, running back through the level and hoping the bots would follow didn't work!)
 
  
  2 - Sound problems. These also affected D3 to an extent - it seems that sound breaks up into static 
 when too many samples are playing at once. Should have really been fixed by now!
  
  3 - Tram level. For some reason this became impossible to complete in my version of the game. After 
 enabling the robot that fixes the track, killing everything hostile, there was nothing left to 
 do in the level. I could jump onto the tram, but there was nothing interactive to do. There was 
 no way to go back to your squad member "guarding the tram" either! I believe the bug may have been 
 triggered by using the dark energy gun to wipe out the horde of monsters that appear just outside 
 the robot room - the first time I played it, I was swarmed and died. So I used the DM gun immediately, 
 and noticed much fewer monsters appeared so I guess some trigger failed or something.
  
  Point 1 I can live with, but point 3 saw me uninstall the game and give it to a friend. I can't 
 stand buggy software! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kjarrideath
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 23, 2005 5:57 am PT
Review:  Like i said this game is really stunning and intense, this is not a spooky game, but there was 
 one level in this game that was kinda freaky, you were in a human waste, that was kinda freaky 
 but anyways, The gameplay is always fun the whole time, you will never get bored, the mission objectives 
 sound really boring when you get objective but when you are doing the objective it is really fun, 
 you get to have soldiers in your team eather you are leading the way or them, and there are medics 
 that heal you and engineers that repair your armor. Also you can drive vehicles like Hovertank 
 which is kinda cheesy and cheap, but its still really fun, and you can drive some walker which 
 is some robot, and you will often be on back of a truck or shooting a machine gun back of a truck. 
 The graphics in this game are amazing, i thought doom3 engine had only the dark corridors and shadows 
 of the deep, but i was really wrong this game has it all!
  If you are going to buy some pc game, buy Quake 4 holy **** that is one hell of a game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Haplo699
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 23, 2005 5:24 am PT
Review:  Simply put this is FEAR as Doom 3 was to Half-Life 2, ID seem to have a nasty habit of putting 
 out products that while looking good really play like any other FPS from five years ago.
  
  Coming out shortly after FEAR pretty much kills this, because FEAR does everything so much better. 
 Where FEAR's bad guys use intelligent squad tactics, Quake 4's pretty much stay static and shoot 
 at you, occassionally one will sidestep a little but not really enough to be called taking cover.
 
  
  What ID associate Raven have essentially done is taken Doom 3, removed the bit that worked, the 
 atmospheric boo scares and sheer tension, and given us more of everything else to fill the gap. 
 As a result Quake 4 gets pretty much all the cons of Doom 3 and one less pro to balance it with.
 
  
  Having said that it is fast paced, it does look great (although I was unable to get it running 
 on Ultra settings on my FX 6800GT, this is perhaps the first game with a setting for 7 series cards?) 
 there's nothing wrong with the gameplay, there wasn't on Doom 3, there's just nothing new. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bradoo16
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 23, 2005 4:07 am PT
Review:  I found this game to be one of the best games that i have ever played in my gaming career, its 
 stunning textures blend in with the very enjoyable gameplay and fun that keeps you going for hours, 
 end on end. Out of 10 i would rate this game a 9.2, Seriously a addictive game :P
  
  All of the questions that the gamers had about this new installment of the game in my opinion have 
 been answered and added onto to make this game definately in the top 3 of my favourite games, anyone 
 that isnt sure about buying this game and is looking here for a hope to find a answer well HERE 
 IT IS! i definately reccomend you to buy it and spend that well earnt money on it, and when you 
 get the game up and running you will be thinking exactly what i will be thinking and wont be regretting 
 that purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: guun63
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 23, 2005 2:30 am PT
Review:  The best Horror game ever made its will scare the **** out of you.. If you have the right software 
 and hardware for your computer the grafik in the game is non like you have ever seen. You will 
 sit op in the screen it is so intens with out adout the most intensive game ever you cant nothing 
 but love it. but it still has its weaknesses as you move trough the game. you can learn to predict 
 where the monsters will spawn that a bit poor but that its still a super great game no dout. its 
 a must have game to your collection.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anDyStacKo
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 23, 2005 11:29 am PT
Review:  well.. im a quake fan and this is the best quake game of the series best graphics, best sound and 
 better gameplay so buy this game this shooter game beats all others like F. E. A. R or half life 2.. 
 QUAKE 4 IS BETTER!!!!!!!!!!
  it scare you, it give u fun all the day.. best skins, best weapons, best maps congratulations to 
 the creators HAVE FUN!! im the quake 3 fan and im sure this multiplayer gameplay will be better 
 just wait to have better servers and you will have fun all the day like u do if u were a quake 
 3 player maybe more of course :P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: T100
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 22, 2005 7:47 pm PT
Review:  When I started playing Quake 4 I had already bought FEAR about 20 minutes earlier and was going 
 into it based on the Gamespot review expecting less than perfect. 
  
  The game starts off with your character crash landing which is very reminisent of StormShip Troopers 
 and you start off shooting in about 25 seconds. From that point on the game will not let you put 
 it down. If you have a respectable system then you will know that the game is one of the best looking 
 out there and although some might find the gameplay a little simple, if you are just looking for 
 a fun and extemely addictive old school FPS then you have to check it out. 
  
  I don't want to spoil anything but the game also includes one of the most memorible scenes from 
 any game ever. All I can say about the medical cut scene is wow !!!!! The game is anything but 
 boring, you will be handed a new environment to hand the Strogg their heathly share of lead whenever 
 you are just about the think that you are tired of this level. I can't speak highly enough about 
 the single player experience... by far the best out there!!!!
  
  However the reason the game isn't a 10 is because of big multiplayer problems that seem to plague 
 most servers. I have a cable connection and get horrible lagg on 30 to 40 ping servers. That coupled 
 with the fact that the multiplayer just seems to missing the wholeness that Q3 had really ruined 
 it for me there. But that aside (because it will probably be fixed in the next patch) you should 
 really get the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mEtAL_t0ast
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 22, 2005 7:07 pm PT
Review:  The Stroggs are back playa hatin all us humans with their arm cannons, and their rap music. You 
 play as another marine (sorry i didn't pay attention to his name don't shoot me 0_o) . But he his 
 part of the Rhino Squad sent in to mop up the remaining Strogg amy. The awsome story makes this 
 a must have quake game. What makes the game sooo kewl is that they turn you into a stroog (almost) . 
 You get the standard machine-gun and blaster, which come in handy in intense firefights. Later 
 you get the classics, the nailgun, tha lightning gun, the grenade launcher, the rocket launcher, 
 the hyperblaster, and OMFG THE DARK MATTER GUN. The multi-player has dissapointing written all 
 over this. It's the same as Quake III. It's not a bad thing, it's just they could have put some 
 kooler maps NOT FROM QUAKE III.
  This game is awsome, great story, great graphics' but the multi-player ARGGGGGGGGGGG!!!!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mavisakal
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 22, 2005 6:23 pm PT
Review:  I have read some of the user reviews who gave less points for this game complaining about the performance. 
 This game is faster than -fear- when you enable ultra high detail graphics. So what will we do 
 if we have low hardware? Blame the piece of art games? We have been waiting for months for these 
 games to come out and the makers deserve some respect. You can't just give 3 points and go away 
 .It effects people's decision more than you think. None of the criterias deserve 3 points in this 
 game.
  I recommend this game to everyone who get bored of the same type of shooters. Single player mode 
 is awesome. Enjoy... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 00chaos8
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 3, 2006 8:10 pm PT
Review:  The game is great and superb and the gameplay is extraordinary. The single-player will keep you 
 going. The A. I is superb, the weapons are a great classic, the story is superb like it just left 
 off from quake 2 and believe me, if you love quake 2 then I highly recommend buying this game. 
 The surprising thing on this game is that the game is using the doom 3 engine and yet it is awesome 
 not to mention that the graphics are very well done. The multiplayer is alright but is a tiny disappointment. 
 I mean you have 9 maps and I expected more maps. But the one thing I can't get is why people say 
 that the multiplayer features suck. I mean, sure it has the same style as quake 3 but that is what 
 makes it fun right, because quake 3 was a really awesome multiplayer game. Even if quake 3 is old, 
 doesn't mean you have to hate the game. Yet even if the multiplayer is similar to quake 3 I like 
 it, better graphics, different weapons and great challengers. The vehicles are well done but it 
 doesn't feel real like half-life 2 and halo 2 but its good and enjoyable. I'm a quake fan and believe 
 me, if your a quake fan won't be disappointed about this game, buy it. The game is awesome and 
 extreme. I don't know what's with gamespot about the multiplayer but the game is awesome.
  
  And the people that review this game bad, please try the game first before you review it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ernelson1976
Rating: 7.8
Date: Oct 22, 2005 3:49 pm PT
Review:  I really wanted to write a rave review of Quake 4, but simply cannot. It's not a bad game by any 
 means. The graphics are phenominal. But while the game manages to avoid the slavish tedium of Doom 
 3, it provides little new for FPS fans.
  
  The game's plot is weak, and its characters cliche. No surprise there. The action is, overall, 
 as entertaining as any other run-and-gun FPS. Here, the graphics are key. While Doom 3's plodding 
 action seemed a simple way to get the game to say, "Hey, look how good this game looks" the graphics 
 in Quake 4 really do seem to add to the action. The various Strogg aliens dart about quickly, and 
 overall feel far more dangerous than those in Doom 3.
  
  The weapons are fun, and certainly feel powerful and dangerous. The environments, however, do become 
 a bit tedious. There is enough diversity to keep you interested, but really nothing to write home 
 about.
  
  Along with the rather boring story, the voice acting is similarly boring (though not so bad as 
 to be distracting) . Is it really too much to ask that even FPS games have a decent plot and voice 
 acting? Sheesh.
  
  Even though I'm generally disappointed with the game, it was because my expectations were perhaps 
 a little too high. So don't let the negative tone of this review hold you back from checking this 
 game out. It is certainly better than average, and will keep you entertained for the 10 to 12 hours 
 it will take you to finish the game.
  
  In short -- it's a beautifully put together example of an average FPS. Wait until you can pick it 
 up for $25-$30, and it will be worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sword_stalker
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 22, 2005 9:10 am PT
Review:  its just great.... the fact that medics heal you and that its not complete darkness (like in doom) 
 makes this game worth playing... it is fast paced, easy to learn and cool ^.^
  
  i loved it and i recommend it for players who have a doubt about what game playing... i heard that 
 the multiplayer isn't that great so i haven't tried it yet but the single player was so great.
 
  
  You have team mates... witch makes the game interesting and all... but unless they are a medic, 
 they aren't much of a help...
  
  with all respect 
  
  Sword Stalker 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nosnos80
Rating: 6.8
Date: Oct 22, 2005 7:10 am PT
Review:  The singleplayer is as solid as you can get, decent storyline, good graphics and lots of action. 
 Terribly short though, you can easily get through it in a day, which must be dissapointing for 
 the singleplayer only people out there. To be honest if F. E. A. R wouldn't have come out at the same 
 time Quake 4's singleplayer campaign would have been much more impressive. Now it just fails to 
 impress while still being entertaining all the way through.
  
  Quake has always been about it's multiplayer though and here is where Quake 4 dissapoints. I was 
 really looking forward to this title, to play with my clan in leagues and cups but as things are 
 now I'm extremly doubtful that that will happen. It just feels old, it's not that I don't like 
 it oldschool, I'm currently playing UT2004 1on1/TDM/DM and compared to it's main rival Quake 4 
 feels old... Sure the graphics are nice, but just because you want a title to be old school doesn't 
 mean you can't implement any new ideas. Now there are some new things like firing rockets through 
 teleporters and granades on jumppads but that gets old really quickly...
  
  It is really lacking some features as well, like brightskins and better hitsounds only to mention 
 av few. Things Raven know that people want in a quake game but have failed to implement nonetheless. 
 The maps are a really sad story as well, so few and since the demands in terms of balanced maps 
 have changed greatly since the first quake 3 games most of them aren't good enough.
  
  A lot of people are saying that Quake 4 will be a good game after a couple of patches and a competition 
 mod, but then again any game could become good after patches and mods. I was dissapointed by Quake 
 4, I wanted to enjoy it more, but I can't shake the feeling that time has gone by to fast for the 
 series and I wouldn't be surprised if this is the last "real" Quake game... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamingMonkeyPC
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 22, 2005 12:19 am PT
Review:  Pros:
  + Graphics, graphics, graphics, just simply amazing graphics
  + Single player campaign makes you want to keep playing on and on
  + No more... well very few... 
 Doom 3's enemy spawning out of nowhere!
  
  Cons:
  - The levels are so straightfoward... makes it a bit too easy
  - The A. I. isn't really smart... 
 both enemy and teammates
  - Multiplayer feels outdated
  
  Basically...
  This game is basically an improved version of Doom 3. There's very few enemies spawning out of 
 no where to "spook" you out. There's a lot less dark corridors. Well... that's pretty much it. 
 If you enjoyed Doom 3 and Quake 2, you'll definitely like this game. If you're looking for a revolutionary 
 game... look elsewhere. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dreadx4
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 21, 2005 10:54 pm PT
Review:  About a month before the release of Quake 4 I was worried about the quality of the game. I felt 
 that Quake 4 was going unnoticed, no movies, no interviews, and no real reaction from the media 
 and made me hesitant to buy it right away. Luckily, Quake 2 was my favorite shooter for the Playstation 
 and really captured a world I wanted to experience, and with a pedigree like that I could not resist 
 to buy the day it was released, and let me say, I am not disapointed.
  
  There had not been a great FPS release in a few months for the PC, I was looking for something 
 fast, high action, and something that would test my new PC. Quake 4 has it all. From the beginning 
 to the end there is not a lull in the action and is genuinely fun to play through every level. 
 The story is not to bad and makes enough sense not to get in the way, the world of quake 2 translates 
 well, and you can see the influence in everything from the enemies, to the architecture, and just 
 the environment you are in feels right for the series.
  
  It may not be groundbreaking, or something completely new, but if you are looking for a great action 
 FPS with a great pedigree, or were a Quake 2 fan and want to continue the story, Quake 4 is right 
 for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kalv
Rating: 6.1
Date: Oct 21, 2005 6:31 pm PT
Review:  this is not quake... this is sum other fps game we played 100000 times except it looks like doom. 
 Quake 4 and doom 3 are EXACTLY the same game. Yea the best part of this is the amazing graphics... 
 but i've seen better. You need a good sound card to play this game with proper sound, which i dont 
 have. I have a normal sound card that came with the computer and the sounds keep suddering. VERY 
 ANNOYING. The multiplayer only has few skins... less than quake 3. The settings are also the same. 
 they did not make an improvement. Multiplayer is what quake is and they lack it. Seems like the 
 doom 3 philosphy of better single player and "playing alone" is a more scary experience... and 
 it is, but that isn't quake dammit! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fattybombom
Rating: 5.3
Date: Oct 21, 2005 5:45 pm PT
Review:  The game of course looks like doom 3 since it's the same engine...
  but tha fact that it feels like doom 3 was very dissapointing...
  for the details read the gamespot 
 review.. i'm just telling you my opinion after playing the game..
  
  the story kicks of right after quake 2 but i really can't call this a story... your teammates say 
 a line here and a line there..
  that is more like info if you ask me...
  not realy relying on the story ok..
  then the gameplay must be great... 
  but no...
  
  
 the weapons feels weak in a sense and the upgrades don't help much..
  the A. I is the average, jump out and shoot run towards you and hope to die..
  the levels look 
 just like the UAC Mars facility...
  this is odd since it's not even in the same universe
  
  you battle new enemies.. true
  they are not basing it on the cheap doom 3 scares.. true
 
  you are using new weapons.. true
  you are not always alone anymore.. true
  
  this does does not make a new game...
  the feeling of quake 4 is IMO like doom 3 on speed..
 
  
  if you wan't a new experience buy F. E. A. R or something....
  this feels like a washed out doom 3,5
  you have done it before and seen it before
  
  i really 
 loved quake 2 but this it not a worthy nr. 4 in the series if you ask me 
  
  but if you are not on a buget by all means.. buy it.. try it... but don't come running back saying 
 I didn't told you so... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: onealrl
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 21, 2005 4:20 pm PT
Review:  Single player:
  I've been playing this game for two days now and I'm having fun. There isn't anything that's mind 
 blowing about this game, it's just good solid fun. Everything looks good of course on the Doom 
 3 engine. I'm playing at 1600x1200 on a P4 3.6GHz, 2gig mem, X800XT PCIex system.... so yeah it 
 all runs smooth! I've got a little bit of time in the vehicles, the controls for their movement 
 is a little akward. I like the redesign of the strogg characters and they're a little more acrobatic 
 than in Q2.... I guess you could say the AI is better because they'll duck and move and even hide.
 
  
  Multiplayer:
  As I'm sure everyone else will write, the multiplayer is a rehash of arena. The things that it's 
 missing however is bots! I live in Germany and restrictions on violent games is pretty strict. 
 Makes it hard to find a good server sometimes especially with a new game. I think bots would make 
 the multiplayer more enjoyable even in the states where servers are plentiful I'm sure.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vito25
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 21, 2005 3:07 pm PT
Review:  When I first heard of the new Doom 3 game about 4 years ago one of my first thought was They should 
 make a new Quake first. Quake 2 was one of those games that got me hooked on computer gaming. 
 So the fact that I gave this game a 9.0 rating is almost for sentimental reasons, Quake and Quake 
 2 made me the computer gamer I am today. 
  Let me start out with the things I didnt like. First, I thought that the weapons seemed a little 
 generic. The rocket effects are nothing special, the Rail gun isnt as loud as Quake 2, the explosions 
 suck, the machine gun sounds lame, and the vehicle sequences are sad. I loved the story and the 
 boss fights. I love a good boss fight. The game had a constant action to it and I didnt have to 
 tell my squad mates orders. They just followed me and shot at bad guys. I also liked the briefing 
 room scenes.
  The graphics have come a long way since Quake 2 .Quake 4, I feel is a great addition to my games. 
 Everyone is complaining about the multiplayer aspect of the game but no one has offered any suggestions 
 on what to do. Quake 3 took care of the multiplayer just fine and I say if it isnt broke why fix 
 it. I did not buy Quake 4 for the multiplayer, I bought it because I knew that it would offer a 
 great single player experience.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DBROWN9
Rating: 4.5
Date: Oct 21, 2005 2:54 pm PT
Review:  Q4 has had some fairly poor reviews recently which I have found highly surprising, as player ratings 
 have been much better. Having gotten my hands on a copy of the game, unfortunately I must agree 
 with the professional reviewers.
  
  I have played the whole series, right from the original Quake (1996) , which was groundbreaking 
 in its time. Q2 had original gameplay and introduced the gaming community to rudimentary online 
 play. Q3 was one of the first games to be solely multuiplayer and was nothing but a frag fest of 
 fun. I was expecting new innovative features in Q4 but we have been substantially let down.
  
  The single player missions are nothing more than a rehash of DOOM 3 but with different maps 
 and player skins. If you liked D3 that's great but I personally hated it. In some respects, the 
 addition of a squad reminded me of the recent and also poor Star Wars Republic Commando title. 
 My first impession was that a competent modder could have taken Doom 3 and made this game. It is 
 simply that, nothing more than a mod. Before you start shouting "It is built on the Doom 3 engine 
 you idiot" , so was Cs Source on the Half Life 2 engine, or Red Orchestra on the UT engine and 
 look at the difference there - the mods are completely different games. This is not something you 
 would expect from a major software house. In fact in Q4 RavenSoft haven't even bothered to duct 
 tape the flash light onto the barrel of the gun (He He) - this is just slack.
  
  Online play these days is the most important aspect of a game, as it is multiplayer which gives 
 a title longevity way past the single missions being completed. Q4 however is exactly the same 
 as Q3, but with updated graphics. Don't get me wrong, I loved Q3 in its time, but that is the telling 
 phrase - Time has moved on and so have FPS games. Q4 strikes me as being stuck in the past , there 
 is nothing different, nothing new. Same fonts, same chunky graphics, same everything ! I am not 
 sure if this is as a result of the developers being lazy in rehashing an old product, or if it 
 is an homage to a very popular old game, but nevertheless in my view Q4 is nothing more than an 
 unwelcome anachronism.
  
  Sound - much the same as Q3 and quite dated. The only thing I liked here was the return of the 
 old status announcer who must have the best voice in gaming history.
  
  Graphics - again nothing special by today's standard. The graphics are the same as Doom 3 (which 
 is over a year old now) - it simply cannot be compared to the lush vistas of far Cry and Battlefield 
 2 or the slickness of Splinter Cell CT.
  
  Gameplay - As stated above, ok if you like Doom3, but gets boring. Multiplayer is absolutely no 
 different to Q3 and to make matters worse there can only be 16 players in a server. Q4 comes no 
 where near Unreal Tournament 2004 (which is nearly 2 years old now) in terms of pulse racing gameplay.
 
  
  Thus far, the thing I enjoyed most about Q4 was the single player opening movie !
  
  I was hoping that this would be one of those games that would remain on my hard drive for a couple 
 of years, but this is not likely. In fact I feel ripped off.
  
  Back to Liandri (UT04) and Karkand (Battlefield 2) for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hellion1004
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 21, 2005 1:20 pm PT
Review:  why did gamespot rank this game **** i can't understand 8.0 score!!
  
  it has been my best game i; v played. mutiplay is just like quake3 but single is not boring anymore. 
 i has totally changed !!!! and every weapon is all cool shape with good sound. i am already waiting 
 expansion pack. 
  
  in my opinion better than fear :) i don't mean the game fear is shit but better than fear.
  
 
  actually fear is little boring. 
  
  play the quake4. if u don't play it u will lose great fun. 
  
  (doom3 is shit!!!) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ddskater828
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 21, 2005 12:30 pm PT
Review:  this game is very good for the most part, the single player is incredibly good and has graphics 
 that are moderately better than doom 3. the multiplayer has the same graphics engine but it sticks 
 to the same type of game play as quake 3. Overall i think that this is a great game and a definite 
 buy. sadly they still havent put in a melee action.... i give this game a rating of a 8/10. if 
 your not big on multiplayer than you should definitely buy this game. if your only buying it for 
 multiplayer than i suggest buying something else such as halflife 2 or unreal tournament 2004. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: downloader_feni
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 21, 2005 11:59 am PT
Review:  Well i guess that everyone has its own opinion about games today and i must say i am a little 
 surpised about gamespots rating of Quake 4. well, lets start from the beginning shall we?
  
  You play as Mathew Kane a elite soldier how belongs ti Rhino squad and is sent to Stoggos homeplanet 
 to take the offense and perhaps even turn the tide of the war. I will not spoil the game for you 
 but all i can say is that this is one of the best single player i playied since half life. Weapons 
 and sound are very good and music plays in the right time. You have also vheicles do drive around 
 and that fells that you are in a big scale war.
  
  When it comes to multi player everyone including gamespot complains that multi player does not 
 bring something new and they are right, it doesnt but what it makes it makes it good, paying an 
 old favorite map from quake 3 in doom engine is wery well done. Since my Quake 3 does not work 
 with my current graphic card, i like muti player but i have played quake 3 to death when it was 
 realeased. There is some thing that must be fixed like more maps and rail gun does only take 80% 
 of your health but this will be fixed with patches and i am sertain that new maps will arrive very 
 soon by people that enjoys making them.
  
  So now when gamespot rated it 8,0, sould you get this one???
  of course you should, if you liked 
 Quake 2 theme and want to take it one step further, go and buy it. But if you expected Quake 4 
 to change the genre you will be a bit dissapoitned. I dont care what gamespot thinks about it, 
 this game is very good and i will also tell that this game is better than FEAR in my opinion. I 
 belive that Quake 4 will have more larger community that FEAR and mod community as allready in 
 full work. Go and get this, you will not be dissapoited.
  
  The best action game of 2005 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pantehre2
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 21, 2005 11:39 am PT
Review:  Quake 4 is not the best first person shooter you will play this year but that certainly doesn't 
 mean its not worth playing. I played both F. E. A. R and Quake 4 at the same time and beat them both 
 within the same relative time span. After playing both I probably enjoyed them both the same but 
 in a different way. I knew what to expect with Quake (shooting, killing, big guns) and I knew what 
 to expect with FEAR (creepy, atmospheric, entertaining) . Both take different approached to gaming 
 and both do it well. Quake 4 is for people who like blasting and with a bit of story and direction 
 and thats exactly what it is. To top if off the game looks unbelievable sexy and really shows what 
 the Doom 3 engine can do. My biggest gripe is definitely the short (took me less than 10hrs) of 
 gameplay. I hope we get some mods or expansions (like quake 2) to extend the single player. Haven't 
 played much MP but we shall see! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mithan
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 21, 2005 11:29 am PT
Review:  Graphics:
  The graphics in Quake 4 are awesome and despite what some may thing, screenshots dont do the game 
 justice because the textures have a heavy use of shaders, so you dont get the full effect from 
 a screenshot that you do when you see it in game, unless your careful with what shots your taking. 
 To put it bluntly, a few crappy screenshots don't tell the full story here.
  
  The Doom 3 engine does not disappoint and everything is very well done when cranked up. Particle 
 effects, Lighting, (most) textures, gun models, misc effects and character models are all very 
 well done and the game outdoes everything to date, except FEAR.
  
  However, there is one problem. Raven has opted to use some pretty crappy textures in some areas 
 and they stand out because everything is done at a high quality and then you see some medium quality 
 textures that stick out. I don't really understand why they did this because 95% of the textures 
 are high resolution and look great, then they drop some crappy ones in there and you just go "huh?". 
 See my screenshots at the bottom.
  
  Performance:
  I was running the game at 1280x1024 with all options maxed and 2xAA. My system is an AMD 64 3400, 
 1 gig Ram and 6800GT. The game ran very good on my system with virtually no slow downs. I didn't 
 check the frame rate either, but it should of been over 30 most of the time. Those of you with 
 a 7800GTX should be extremly happy.
  
  Story:
  The story will not win any academy awards, but I enjoyed how it was told. Raven took the route 
 of having you run losely termed missions with objectives. These are usually given to you via radio 
 or by soldier NPC's scattered throughout the levels. Sometimes you join them, sometimes they send 
 you on your own, however at all times, you are central to the story.
  
  I actually enjoyed how it was told since you always felt like you were doing something, and the 
 Radio Chatter and dead bodies and such made it feel like you were part of a squad and not alone 
 (a welcome change from Doom 3.) The story did NOT get in the way of the game play either, which 
 is vital.
  
  Overall "feel":
  Quake 4 controlls/motion/combat feels a lot like Classic Quake and Doom, so it is good in this 
 reguard. Motion is fluid and crisp and simple. Classic Quake 1/2/3 players will notice that you 
 walk slower, however after you turn into a Strogg, you move at classic Quake 2 speed and this is 
 nice since I found movement a tad slow at the start.
  
  Weapons:
  The weapons feel good for the most part and the sounds are great. Old Quake players will find most 
 of them familiar, except here are a few changes:
  
  * There is no Double Barrel Shotgun, which is kind of sad.
  
  * The Lightning Gun isnt nearly 
 as powerful as previous iterations.
  
  * The BFG has been replaced with the Gravity Gun.
  
  * The Rail Gun isnt nearly as cool as it was in Quake 2 and 3, and it took me a bit to get 
 used to it. I cant wait for modders to change this for Multiplayer.
  
  
  One cool part of the game is that as you progress, some of your weapons get upgraded by the other 
 Marines. For instance, your regular machine gun gets a 80 shot clip upgrade, Plasma Bolts bounce, 
 etc.
  
  Combat/AI and Physics:
  Combat is a lot like it was in Classic Quake, meaning you basically go from area to area and blow 
 the crap out of your enemies, using basic strafe or backward tactics. If you played last years 
 Doom 3, you know the drill. The big change from Doom 3 is that monsters don't spawn in or come 
 from behind you (except a few times) , which is nice.
  
  The AI is nothing to write home about and enemies are capable of attacking you, side stepping or 
 going for cover (sometimes) . Overall, their biggest defense is moving around and trying to make 
 it harder for you to hit them. This is barely an improvement over Quake 2 and if you played Doom 
 3 last year, you will recognize the AI right away.
  
  Physics are basically the same as in Doom 3, which means they "exist" but don't play any part in 
 the game other than providing basic ragdoll physics for when NPC/Enemies die, as well as when you 
 boot a box. DO NOT expect Half Life 2 physics puzzles here, or FEAR like options either.
  
  The question I have though is, if it did have better physics, would it be Quake? I dont think so. 
 Quake was always about plain old killing, not finding cool ways to kill people...
  
  Level Design & "Darkness":
  Like Monolith did with FEAR, Raven has done a great job with the 
 Level Design. They have built very good, solid and logical levels and unlike FEAR, they have provided 
 a good mix of different types of levels and cool things to see. While the main game ends up being 
 a collection of hallways to big rooms, there are some very cool things to see in those big rooms 
 and I never felt like it got boring or repetitive.
  
  One of my main worries about Quake 4 was that I was worried they were going to make it into another 
 Doom 3 "dark game". Now, I enjoyed Doom 3 for what it was, but I do NOT want to play another game 
 that is pitch black, so when I played through Quake 4, I was pleasently surprised to see that while 
 the game is "dark", it is properly balanced to not be insanely dark to the point where it tires 
 you out.
  
  Perhaps the big difference here is that the flashlight is now ductaped to your Pistol and Machine 
 Gun (imagine that!) , which meant I used my machine gun more than any other weapon and most of the 
 dark was sort of a "dim" dark, that you could see in, not the pitch black of Doom 3. However the 
 overall feel was just much better, probably because you dont have crap spawning in every where 
 like you did in Doom 3. It is hard to explain... In many ways, it is like FEAR's dark, which isn't 
 stupid dark. One thing you will notice is that you are rarely attacked in really dark rooms in 
 Quake 4, lights usually turn on or something.
  
  Bosses:
  Quake has a history of bosses in the game and like the previous games, the bosses are VERY well 
 done graphically and very stupid and fairly basic as to kill strategy, being the kill them before 
 they kill you type strategy. There is one boss that recharges his shields a few times that is 
 a fair challenge, but after him, the rest are pretty basic. The end boss was a joke lol
  
  Difficulty:
  I played through the game in 9 hours on the moderate difficulty level (Corporal?) 
 and I found it to be pretty easy overall. A few of the boss battles made me reload 5 or 6 times, 
 but that was all. As for resource use, well, ammo is spread liberally enough that you wont run 
 out, however there are a few areas where it can get a little dicey, so you don't want to waste 
 it either. Being a conservation whore, I tend to use my smallest weapons all the time and then 
 pull out the big ones for the hardest enemies, so anytime things get tough, I have plenty of "big 
 gun" ammo to level the playing field.
  
  Cons:
  Here are my "cons" for Quake 4:
  
  # I wish they kept the Classic Quake Railgun feel.
  
  # When you are upgraded to a Strogg, 
 you should have had a bit of a visual increase or something to see better in the dark. Strogg see 
 good, why not you?
  
  # A little more vehicle combat would have been cool.
  
  # No real innovation to the FPS Format, however what is here is probably the best to date for this 
 style of shooter
  
  Overall Impression and some Misc Thoughts:
  I really enjoyed the 9 hours it took me to finish the game and while nothing truly stands out as 
 memorable, the game is just a very solid, fun first person shooter that has a good story that pulls 
 you along and I think most FPS nuts will love the game overall. I think that most people will like 
 this game, but unfortunately, the game doesnt really do anything to push the genre along, as it 
 is pretty classic Quake/Doom type action, though probably the best of those games to date, so those 
 of you who prefer more "involved" type FPS's like Half Life 2, you might find this a little too 
 simple. However, I like a good mix in the type of shooters I play, so I really enjoyed it.
  
  -I must mention again that I am happy that they didn't kill the game with the "darkness" or 
 enemies spawning behind you.
  
  -Another thing I liked was the inclusion of the Radio chatter and soldiers all over the place, 
 because it never felt like I was alone. This is a great feeling in a game of this type.
  
  So what sets this one apart or why should you get it?
  Look, this game is a classic shooter. 
 If you liked Doom and Quake, you will like this game. It is VERY well done. It isnt as varied 
 as Half Life 2, which offers all the extremely cool game play variances and does them well, but 
 for what Quake 4 is, it does it very good and people will probably enjoy it a lot.
  
  In my opinion, Quake 4 is "Doom 3 Done Right". I enjoyed Doom 3, but ultimatly, I wish it was more 
 like Quake 4... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 9JohnRay
Rating: 5.6
Date: Oct 21, 2005 11:20 am PT
Review:  Well here we go Quake 4. Single Player... Great. Graphics and Sound Great.... 
  But in this online gaming era a FPS must have strong Multi-player this is where Quake 4 fails. 
 The multi-player feels like a worse rehash of Quake 3. This is my warning before you by this game. 
 Because of the pitfalls in multiplayer this game is merely average. If you have tthe other games 
 in the series there is really no reason to buy this title. If you are new to the series and would 
 like just a single player experience this game could be right for you. 
  
  For the rest of us however this game doesnt meet its lofty expectations, and is a rent or borrow 
 from friend type of title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zux2000
Rating: 2.6
Date: Oct 22, 2005 3:07 am PT
Review:  No doubt about it, this game feels like a very bad copy of Quake 2, almost exactly like Quake 2, 
 I know this game continuo where Quake 2 ends, but hello, this game came out now 8 years after! 
 It can be much more better than this! Almost the same enemies, -no variation at all. Even on the 
 levels, isn't either no variation here to. The only thing how is better is ofcourse the graphic 
 how has the wonderful Doom 3 engine. The AI on the enemies and your squad sucks: and when you talk 
 with someone of your own squad he don't even look at you if you doesn't stand right front of him. 
 I'm very disappointed, I thought this game would be great, but it's bad. It's like I have throw 
 away my money. Doom 3 is so much better! Doom 3 has a much better variation on the enemies, (and 
 they doesn't disappear after they die, like "smoke" wich Quake IVs enemies does) and it has much 
 better story to. On all things; Doom 3 is a much better game than Quake IV is. It's sad; that Id 
 Software gave "away" this game to Raven Softwares hands. All the other Quake games, I call it "The 
 great Quake trilogy" are great and amazing games. I have already passed half of Quake IV and it 
 makes me sick, okay I haven't clear it yet but my first impression says enough. I either play Quake 
 2 again than this game. I can compare Quake IV and Quake 2 with two movies; Terminator 2 and Terminator 
 3, T2 is one of the best movies ever and T3 is only a pale copy of T2, with almost the same story, 
 but much worse than T2. Quake 2 is one of the best shoot em up games ever, and Quake IV is only 
 a worse copy with som up-mixed upgraded graphic. Quake IVs first half is a pale boring copy of 
 Doom 3 and Qauke 2. It feels like I already have played this game years ago, and isn't feel new 
 at all.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: iwh03
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 21, 2005 10:26 am PT
Review:  Just back from the Game store today, I was not sure wither to buy Quake 4 or Fear but I went for 
 this monster. The WOW factor is 100%, much better that Doom 3, fast and furious. If in doubt then 
 I can say that it is totally amazing. Maybe get FEAR some other time but this game will keep me 
 occupied for some time. Super graphics and game engine and not too heavy on the machine spec. Having 
 player HL2 and Battlefield 2 I was still looking for a quick fix and this hits the mark, great 
 way to end a stressful day at the office. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: irish27
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 21, 2005 9:52 am PT
Review:  Quake 4 is a great game! It offers a state of the art game engine that runs well on todays gaming 
 PC. Great sound, great visuals, lot of action, single and multi player.
  My rant! Professional game reviewers really dont seem to like sequels much. As an example, Painkiller 
 received almost universal praise from reviewers, while games such as Unreal 2, Doom 3, Serious 
 Sam 2, etc. received pretty mediocre ratings. Comparing these games, they all do pretty much the 
 same thing. Some work more on story, while others work more on the action. To me, the difference 
 in the ratings has to do with game reviewers being surprised by the quality of a game rather 
 than the individual merits stacked up other games in the genre. 
  I pretty much only buy games that are in the 8.5 and up range unless I know in advance what I am 
 getting into. I just wonder how many good games I am missing because of this reviewer issue?
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mike_LeBlanc
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 21, 2005 9:33 am PT
Review:  Very impressive game. It may not have everything that everybody wants, but no games does. It's 
 fast, violent and fun, everything we've come to expect from the Quake series. The AI interaction 
 with other marines isn't exactly deep, but it is realistic considering the circumstances, get to 
 the point before you get fragged. All in all it's everything I hoped for from the series. While 
 not for everyone, fans of either the Quake games or the Alien movies should definately check this 
 one out.
  
  As for the multi-player, it definately has a lot in common with Quake 3. Most would go so far as 
 to say it "IS" Quake 3 all over again, and come on, let's face it, that isn't a bad thing. Quake 
 3 did all of the right things and this one follows very closely to that mold. Out of the box, the 
 match variety isn't the greatest but in the word of FPS, mods start hitting the market the day 
 the game hits store shelves, if not earlier, and the developers are starting to realize this. The 
 base is solid and is ready to be modded to hell. Does that mean more mods and options shouldn't 
 have been added out of the box? Of course not, just because the mod community will add tons of 
 content doesn't mean that it should be left entirely up to them. However, the modes that are included 
 are fast, fun and highly replayable so for what it is, it's done well.
  
  Overall, a great game that is only going to get better over time. The supposedly steep hardware 
 requirements are a bit of an overstatement. I have it running on an Athlon XP 1700+ with 896MB 
 of PC2100 ram and a Radeon 9600XT 256MB AGP card. I've bumped up the detail and am still getting 
 a minimum of 35 fps with an average of just over 40 fps. So don't let the box requirements and 
 the reviews stating poor performance or subpar graphics on an older box. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luckylogan
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 21, 2005 9:23 am PT
Review:  ****Warning**** Some spoilers below.
  
  Gameplay: Yes, the gameplay is fairly basic but still loads of fun. There is some prudence needed 
 on your part, you can't just run and gun all the time and expect to get through.
  
  Weapons: The weapons upgrade is a great idea. Even your weaker weapons at the beginning of the 
 game can be used later in the game for more punch. And they are all useful. The machine gun is 
 great to snipe enemies at a moderate distance. The nail gun is my favorite (especially later in 
 the game) . I wish the railgun and the BFG was more powerful though. And I did not like that the 
 railgun has to be reloaded after 3 shots, especially since there is a charging time.
  
  Enemies: This is one of my favorite elements of the game. The enemies are just amazing to watch. 
 They have brought back the Gunner, Beserker, Gladiator, etc. with excellent detail. I wish they 
 didn't disappear after they are dead. So sometimes I get myself killed just so I can get a better 
 look at them. The AI maybe lacking a bit, but that is easily forgiven because of the damage these 
 enemies can do at the harder settings. The bosses are a sight to behold.
  
  Level Design: Amazing, detailed, probably the best I have seen in an FPS. You should upgrade your 
 PC if you haven't done already, it is worth the experience.
  
  Sound: The game sounds are absolutely incredible. The weapons sound very convincing. There is always 
 some chugging and whirring in the background to immerse you in the industrial strogg atmosphere. 
 Do yourself a favor and turn the volume up. The only weak point is the music, the score could have 
 been a lot better (Halo, raised the bar a little to high, unfortunately) . 
  
  Kudos to Id and Raven for a spectacular game. We want more! Bring on the expansion packs! I can't 
 wait 6 years for another sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ssj4-vegeta
Rating: 3
Date: Oct 21, 2005 5:00 am PT
Review:  the game isn't impressing as F. E. A. R. doom 3 even found better likeness of mine.
  the guns didn't change and texture is very bad.
  unlike F. E. A. R when u shoot the wall it just 
 become black and egly, and you can't breack anything. really old school and old.
  the game play is very slow and stupid the ai of the rivels is very bad they try to attack you and 
 scare you but they can't do it. very poor game.!!!
  the onlt thing that is good there thet u can't kill ur friendlys. but let's get real when you get 
 a new gun you wanna test it on someone who can't die, so we can see what damge the gun is doing. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danwesoly
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 21, 2005 2:24 am PT
Review:  This game has so much potential its amazing, The Gfx alone makes the game stand out from others 
 but with the pure none stop action it makes this game top rank out of the FPS genre. The choices 
 of weapons are very cool altho i havent seen all of them yet but each one feels diffirent in its 
 own way and makes you feel like your firing a gun and not a cap gun. The game immerses you right 
 from the begining making you feel diffirent depending on where you are and who your with. Also 
 the AI is quite remarkable making you feel that your friends and enemies are alive and breathing, 
 Even tho this was a short review i hope you find it helpfull in making the choice to buy this game 
 or not but if you choose not to then your missing out on a great FPS which could be un-rivalled 
 to other FPS competators 
::::::

::::::
UserName: megarath1
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 21, 2005 12:43 am PT
Review:  Quake 4 is an amazing work of art that takes computer generation games to a whole new level! With 
 intense battles and cool weapons, an enemy around every corner and blood-crazy creatures This Quake 
 shows to be worth its weight in gold. Vehicles, the game has a fair amount of vehicles and super 
 turrets to destroy the huge KING KONG like creatures. It also has huge amount of gore to add to 
 the zombie-like creatures that infest the areas of Qauke 4. Qauke 4 will in my opinion sell thousands 
 of copies because of its great suspensful gameplay, its alright online multiplayer and its amazingly 
 realistic graphics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PirateMonkey
Rating: 8.4
Date: Oct 20, 2005 11:18 pm PT
Review:  In all my years as a first-person shooter addict, thru all the good and the bad (hellforces, Doom3, 
 The Quakes, and the Unreals) , i along with millions of others waited 4 years for Quake 4 and now 
 i wish i was still waiting. This game through graphically awesome (and by the way anything less 
 than the highest of spec cards, means you're missing out) is a serious no brainer blast fest. What 
 are you looking for i hear the cry,,,,, Somethng a little different. Not too much to ask. This qame 
 is great but not fantastic as it should of been. The mulltiplayer is good fun, for 10 mins till 
 u start getting leaded by 10 year olds. To sum up as you're probably bored already reading this. 
 Buy this game. It might just mean we'll get quake 5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: niel12_5
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 20, 2005 8:08 pm PT
Review:  PROS
  makes doom3 look like crap
  no plastics
  good old-shooting
  CONS
  good old-shooting
  did id stop caring about multiplayer?
  higher thinking is optional
  
 
  Gameplay:
  8, becuase its just shooting with noo brains, you could argue, and i agree dat brains with kill 
 quake, its just too bad that fans didn't allow raven to apply
  something new to the universe of quake (see fear) , also ai can feel repetiitive at some times
  
 Graphics:
  10, sensational, and shares requirements with doom3, hello high res..
  bump-maps show of their skin rendering, and it works
  Sound:
  9, hollywood gots nothing on 
 these stars, and shows more UMPF!! than doom3 , tough its not the best
  Value:
  7, one word, multiplayer?
  Tilt:
  9, Cause i didnt forget the old LAN days, QUAKE, YOU LOST 
 THE LEAD (anyway 
  
  8.6
  
  last words: it gets the job done, but unlike 1994, their are better... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: whipman
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 20, 2005 7:52 pm PT
Review:  While I haven't played any other games from the Quake series I have to say this game running on 
 the Doom3 engine is just as good as Doom 3. It does seem a little darker though. I'm not much of 
 an online gamer so multiplayer mode doesn't make a difference to me. After reading reviews on various 
 gamer sites I was hesitant to shell out 50 bucks and get burned by all the hype. I gotta say the 
 different game site ratings for this game are definitely way underrated. After being spoiled by 
 the likes of Half Life 2 and Doom 3 (they both raised the bar) it's getting more and more difficult 
 to find games like these. Both Quake4 and F. E. A. R are right up there as two of this years best 
 releases. Neither game will disappoint you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GMXProdigy
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 20, 2005 5:22 pm PT
Review:  After six long years, the king of shooters finally returns. The question is: can a grand series 
 held in limbo for half a decade rise again as wonderous as its predecessors. As much as reviews 
 from major websites and magazines will have you believe, the answer is yes. Even though it's not 
 as balls-to-the-wall, its multiplayer remains virtually the same while single-player returns, much 
 more solid than ever.
  
  Gameplay:
  Unfortunately, "solid single-player" means Doom 3 ripoff. I'll admit, Quake did much better on 
 this count. While Doom 3 was an obsessive horror game, forcing you into corners and leaving you 
 freaked out as your dark screen suddently shook from a violent shot by a hiding zombie, Quake 4 
 takes the gunfight to wide open plains and rooms offering more strategic advantage than scare factor.
 
  The AI in this game has its high and low points. Enemies will hide at key times and use crates 
 and close walls to its advantage. They will shoot you with powerful, but slow, weapons at range 
 and will rip you apart with blades up-close. Your own AI isn't quite as smart. Your squadmates 
 will stand behind you as you're trying to back up out of the enemies shot path or blade range, 
 making it impossible to get through and leaving you wide open. On the otherhand, they will constantly 
 fire without being injured while you stand to the side avoiding shots. Certain squads contain medics, 
 who completely restore your health upon request, techs, who restore your armor likewise, and others 
 who will fire up a storm.
  Weapons are essentially the same as Quake 3, except with a few classic kickbacks. The nailgun returns, 
 as well as the fast-loading rocket launcher, and the BFG10K has been upgraded to a Dark Matter 
 gun, which shoots a blast on the calibur of Quake 2's BFG, though with strictly limited ammo.
 
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics are clean and smooth, simple as that. If you've played Doom 3, you should know what 
 to expect. An engine as smooth as that simply had to be reused, and its cleaned up version really 
 stands out. Regardless, you will still be able to play high quality settings at full speed on multiplayer 
 even with a lower-end card like the GeForce 6600 GT, but antialiasing might want to sit out this 
 round.
  
  Sound:
  The sound is as epic as you would expect. Every explosion sound is realistic and on-key. The voice-acting 
 isn't too shabby either. The only annoyance is the low sampling of voices that come through your 
 character's headset.
  
  Value:
  While multiplayer is only slightly upgraded from its predecessor without any ground-breaking advancements, 
 it has aged well and might be very welcome to fans of the series. Still, it could have been much 
 better, and low reviews may keep modders from getting to work on new things.
  
  Defining Moment:
  Blowing the crap out of a crowd of stroggs with a well-placed shot and coming 
 out with full health. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zoglog
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 20, 2005 2:22 pm PT
Review:  This game simply is overrated everwhere, It deserves so much more acclaim than it is getting. People 
 complain about how it is linear and how the multiplayer plays a safe formula. Well DUH, cuz that's 
 what the fans of the game wanted. I AM THRILLED to play Quake 3 Multiplayer again on the doom 3 
 engine. I don't need any damn reviewer complaining about how it doesn't further the genre because 
 all other games have simply done gameplay wrong. Battlefield 2 (a great game in it's own right) 
 has really crappy gameplay in comparison to quake. It's not as responsive, not as fast, not a furious 
 for a deathmatch setting. Same with halflife, counterstirke, you name it. It's all hokey. And when 
 you throw it into the awesome singleplayer of quake 4 It's just plain sweet. The singleplayer is 
 immersive and of course linear, but then again WAIT A SECOND just about all FPS are linear. I didn't 
 see too many alternate choices in halflife 2 or FEAR either. And Unlike fear this game contines 
 to be fun after the 2nd level. And oh yeah MULTIPLAYER. this game is like if Quake 2 and Quake 
 3 had a baby which will please any fan of the series. Of course I know people will always prefer 
 thier wussy weak FPS like counterstrike which is ok. But As I like to say Counterstrike and other 
 FPS for the masses, Quake for the skilled. Lookin forward to mods.
  
  Of course I will not say the game is perfect. It has flaws with performance (especially in multiplayer) 
 that better be worked out. The Vehicle combat is not crappy but neither is it spectacular, and 
 better involvement in group combat would have been nice. But it is a fine game as it stands now. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KrAzY_Croat
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 20, 2005 11:30 am PT
Review:  Built on Doom 3's technology, I expected this game to be very much like its counterpart. And it 
 is, but more fine tuned. The graphics are arguably the best ever made. The gameplay is excellent, 
 your enemies are tough, and the AI is quite advanced. Like Doom, it has a great story thats replayable, 
 and you'll want to spend hours on it. The games multiplayer is not the best however, as it seems 
 identical of that of Quake 3's.
  
  The sounds are great and is a great value. Overall this is one of this year's best shooters, and 
 seeing as though Battlefield 2, Serious Sam 2, and F. E. A. R. were released this year, thats quite 
 a good accomplishment. I'm glad to have this on my shelf. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thorandor
Rating: 6.6
Date: Oct 20, 2005 10:37 am PT
Review:  So here it is, Quake 4, a game that I really anticipated since I first saw a screenshot, thinking 
 "wow, this must be a revelation, wow, the story of Q2 was interesting, and now here we go again 
 against the baddies!"
  
  So I finally get my hands on the game, installation goes fine, it checks my Key, takes a bit of 
 time and off I go right into the game. First off to the settings. Like every ID software game it 
 is easy to configure what you need, be it graphics, controls and audio. A few minutes later I start 
 the game.
  
  The Intro is great, reminds me a lot of StarShip Troopers. I crashland with my companions on the 
 planet, getting ready to fight for my life and the lives of my companions. And here is the first 
 time I notice how similar Quake 4 is to Doom 3. A shame really, granted, Quake 2 was dark as well, 
 but the least I would have expected is a bit more than a Doom 3 atmosphere in the Quake universe. 
 
  
  - On a good note, seems like the developers realised that players prefer to use torches WITH the 
 weapons, this time we don't need a "duct tape mod" - 
  
  It is very easy to fiind your way through the game, the controls are very easy to understand, the 
 game has a small learning curve at the start, and you get a few "go to A, grab B, and bing him/it 
 to C", but they bring the story forward.
  
  And the story is very well brought forward, you interact with the other soldiers around you, you 
 witness what happens to them (and to you) , and you have the feeling of not being alone in the fight 
 against the Strogg without having to worry a lot about giving commands (which I hated in Brothers 
 in Arms for example) . 
  
  The graphics are nice, overall the game runs smoother than Doom 3, and loading times are okay to 
 dry your hands before fighting against another load of enemies. 
  
  Sound effects could have been a bit better, I miss the feeling of having a powerful weapon in your 
 hand that does a big noise and even bigger damage. Explosions are nice, but could have been a lot 
 louder, especially in small corridors or indoors.
  
  The biggest let-down of the game is the multi-player mode, it feels like a lame attempt to recreate 
 the feeling of Doom3-MP or even Quake 3 Arena. Overall the multiplayer part feels unfinished and 
 unbalanced, it is not as fun or entertaining as the MP-part of other games. They could as well 
 have removed that and added it in a patch..... or they should start working on a MP-update - or 
 upgrade - very soon. Me goes back to Doom 3 mp.
  
  Overall, if it wasn't for the multiplayer part and a few minor details within the game it would 
 have been one of the great few games for this year's Game of the Year title, but at the moment 
 it feels above average to me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cyber_Man
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 20, 2005 9:29 am PT
Review:  Amazing what developers done with Doom3 engine. It's undoubtedly will become the game of the year. 
 It is realy worth to buy this game. 
  
  When I started to play single player mode, I fought I will replay several maps and then finish 
 for that day. But then I saw that I just can't stop. Thouse moments when monster apiers in front 
 of you and you can't pull finger from the triger until all bullets ends and you can't wait until 
 another enemy will apear. Ya it's so damn fun. There is no another game witch involves in action 
 like this.
  
  And sounds. They so entertaining. All of them fits pefect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cpq1013
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 20, 2005 8:36 am PT
Review:  Great game.... reviewer too harsh! 8/10, no way.... The problem still remains.... Audigy 2 ZS not 
 taking the 7.1 surround sound setting. This should have been taken care of after Doom 3!! .... 
 .... .... 
  .... .... .... .... .... .... .... .... .... .... .... .... .... .... .... .... .... .... .... 
 .... .... .... .... .... .... .... .... .... .... .... .... .... .... .... .... .... .... .... 
 .... .... .... .... .... .... .... .... .... .... .... .... .... .... .... .... .... .... .... 
 .... .... .... .... .... .... .... .... .... .... .... .... .... .... .... .... .... .... .... 
 .... .... .... .... .... .... .... .... .... .... .... .... .... .... .... .... .... .... .... 
 .... .... .... .... .... .... .... .... .... .... .... .... .... .... .... 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: neilb
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 20, 2005 8:02 am PT
Review:  I read the reviews of every crazy gamer out there mad at the review gamespot gave Q4. I say the 
 game kicks butt! let the sells and online presence be the determing factor. Personally I never 
 take great stock in a critics review. Hopefully the critic is a first person shooter player, and 
 not a guy who goes gome at night to play Computer Solitare.
  Why must a game be revolutionary to deserve a great review. I have played both Fear and Quake4 
 both are great games. but I believe quake 4 is slightly better than FEAR story line and all. Maybe 
 Quake4 is just missing a Spooky little girl. lol
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Katullins
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 20, 2005 7:54 am PT
Review:  I was unsure if I was going to pick up Quake 4 for two reasons: I was already spending around 60 
 dollars for Director's Edition of Fear, and IGN had given Quake 4 a measley 8.2 The strange thing 
 is that after reading both Gamespot and IGN's review, I discovered that they barley had anything 
 bad to say about the game, yet they still give Quake 4 very low scores? So finally when I decided 
 to play the game I was instantly hooked. Quake 4 actually reminds me of Halo 2 in certain aspects 
 (vehicle levels, enemies with shields, etc...) Also, the multiplayer is exactly as it should have 
 been, just like quake 3. The visuals are mindblowing at times, like when you are about to engage 
 the Makron for the first time, I was just shocked at how intense the game got. I have been playing 
 both FEAR and Quake 4 equally and I've gotta say that this game was well worth the wait and definatley 
 will not dissapoint Quake fans, or any other FPS fans! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XSAVAGE
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 20, 2005 2:32 am PT
Review:  
  When i popped the DVD in, i just knew that this was a great game , they added most of the feel 
 from Doom 3 and Quake and mixed them all together in a very nice entertaining experience.
  
  I like how the whole world looks , they totally gave a new meaning for the doom engine , is 
 dark , but not Doom 3 dark , love the shadows , lighting and smoke effects.
  
  Sounds are very good , i like the music keeps you going for more. in most parts sounds like youre 
 playing in a movie , very entertaining.
  
  Multiplayer dont know why some dont like it , i do , cant stop playing it online , cant wait for 
 more maps and mods to be available. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: poopsmith111
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 19, 2005 11:02 pm PT
Review:  This game I thought was absolutely perfect. I saw no problems in this game. It is absolutely perfect 
 in every way. I thought it was such an improvement over doom 3. I think there will not be much 
 better of a game any time soon. The single player has good action and good story. Good weapons 
 and good sounds. The same thing goes for the graphics. This game has no problems I have seen yet, 
 and I firmly believe I will not find any. This game was perfect and I have to say this is one of 
 the best games I have ever played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: elifman007
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 19, 2005 5:11 pm PT
Review:  I just beat the game on Lt. difficulty. It has a very good storyline, perfectly meshing with Quake 
 2. The game was very fast-paced and smooth. There isn't so much 'Whats behind the door?' as in 
 Doom 3. There wasn't too much boring corridor crawling like in Doom either. The game has the right 
 blend of dark; confined areas, and open; bright areas. My only balk with the gameplay is the repetitiveness 
 of the three laser towers. You have to activate these three towers to gain access to the Nexus, 
 but they all are very similar. On the other hand, I really enjoyed the walker sequence, although 
 I found the hover tank a bit odd to control. The single player campaign is going to take you AT 
 LEAST 10 hours to complete, probably 13-15 your first time around.
  
  In the area of graphics, obviously, the Doom 3 engine really churns it out. But, unlike Doom 3, 
 the game runs smooth even when there are large numbers of enemies in the area. This game is definately 
 a memory hog. I would say 768 mb ram is a necessity for enjoying the game. Also, a 9600 xt 256 
 mb video card will let you run the game on medium settings smoothly.
  
  Sound is top notch. There are no whimpy weapon sounds. Playing this game with surround sound is 
 freaky, I warn you. I kept thinking someone was really talking to me every time I heard a voice 
 behind me in game. That brings me to the voice acting. The voice acting was excellent, exactly 
 what you would expect from a game of this calibur. All the voices matched the characters very well.
 
  
  Value wise, this game is very good. Although the single player campaign could get repetitive after 
 a few times through, the multiplayer is awesome. None of the netcode problems from Doom 3. On a 
 cable internet connection, I can play on a 16 player server perfectly. Multiplayer is basically 
 the same as Quake III, which I see no problem with. If it ain't broke, don't fix it.
  
  All in all, this may be the FPS of the year, because I don't think much of FEAR (half-way through 
 that) . Buy this game, knowing that you will have a great time playing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VashTheKidd
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 19, 2005 4:01 pm PT
Review:  I have not played the full version as of yet but i shall soon. I played the multiplayer at QuakeCon 
 and it was just incredible a classic styled Multiplayer with great upgraded Graphics and very intricate 
 map set. Yes you will need a high end graphics card to get any greatness from this game but please 
 if you dont i still encourage the buying of this game because we all know the settings can be turned 
 down to match your card... ok most of your cards. I hear that there were vehicles were in this game, 
 which seems like a great addition but isnt needed for Quake cause its a great game within itself 
 I believe that Id fealt that everyone else was having vehicles that we should have vehicles in 
 our game as well.
  
  Long story short Great Game with classic Multiplayer 
  
  I give this game a 10 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shermstix
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 19, 2005 12:33 pm PT
Review:  After playing through the first five or six scenarios, I am convinced that Quake 4 was worth the 
 cash. The game is almost non-stop action from the time you shake of the dirt to the point that 
 I am at. Enemies come at you in barrages, while team mates help you complete your various objectives. 
 It is much more fast paced than Doom 3 or anything else I have played before. It seems like the 
 second you finish killing one group of enemies, the next is right around the corner waiting to 
 slaughter you. I haven't tried the multi-player yet, but it certainly doesn't seem as exciting 
 as Counter-Strike: Source. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ladiemooshu
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 19, 2005 10:57 am PT
Review:  I have only touched Quake for just a day now and I absolutely love it. I am female and for anyone 
 who has thought that gaming is "stupid" well it's not ladies!!! My bf introduced me to the SPORT 
 and I love it. He started me out with Far Cry which is also great but then threw me in the direction 
 of Quake. I think everyone should check it out. A good video card is required for this wonderful 
 experience. ENJOY!!! If you would like to talk further email me at marlboro_gurl333@yahoo. com! 
  Great, great, great, great, great, and oh did i say 
 great!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: icewindy
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 19, 2005 10:22 am PT
Review:  The most anticipated game of the year! Pilot over twenty five different vehicles in your fight 
 to save mankind from an alien threat! Revolutionary new multiplayer with up to 500 players on a 
 server! Stunning graphics that will melt your monitor!
  
  How many times have you seen statements like these plastered across magazine adds and game boxes? 
 It seems the more developers and publishers marketing teams try to distinguish themselves 
 with new features and claims, the more most titles end up looking like pathetic imitations of the 
 great games of yesteryear. This is especially true of the bloated FPS genre where most recent attempts 
 at innovation have done little to improve the basic gameplay experience.
  
  But now we are actually nearing the release of one of the most anticipated titles of this year, 
 Quake 4. Its the long awaited sequel to one of the progenitors of the FPS genre and many 
 gamers are wondering what insane new features have been concocted up to differentiate the game 
 and compel us to reach into our wallets. None really. And after my recent time with it  
 thats a good thing. Dont get me wrong, Quake 4 does have a dropship full of exciting 
 elements, but they have decided to focus on what makes the core of a game fun, rather than flashy.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kintoandar
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 19, 2005 6:29 am PT
Review:  Quak3 4 Quak3 4 Quak3 4 Quak3 4 Quak3 4 Quak3 4 Quak3 4 Quak3 4 Quak3 4 Quak3 4 Quak3 4 Quak3 4 
 Quak3 4 Quak3 4 Quak3 4 Quak3 4 Quak3 4 Quak3 4 Quak3 4 Quak3 4 Quak3 4 Quak3 4 Quak3 4 Quak3 4 
 Quak3 4 Quak3 4 Quak3 4 Quak3 4 Quak3 4 Quak3 4 Quak3 4 Quak3 4 Quak3 4 Quak3 4 Quak3 4 Quak3 4 
 Quak3 4 Quak3 4 Quak3 4 Quak3 4 Quak3 4 Quak3 4 Quak3 4 Quak3 4 Quak3 4 Quak3 4 Quak3 4 Quak3 4 
 Quak3 4 Quak3 4 Quak3 4 Quak3 4 Quak3 4 Quak3 4 Quak3 4 Quak3 4 Quak3 4 Quak3 4 Quak3 4 Quak3 4 
 Quak3 4 Quak3 4 Quak3 4 Quak3 4 Quak3 4 Quak3 4 Quak3 4 Quak3 4 Quak3 4 Quak3 4 Quak3 4 Quak3 4 
 Quak3 4 Quak3 4 Quak3 4 Quak3 4 Quak3 4 Quak3 4 Quak3 4 Quak3 4 Quak3 4 Quak3 4 Quak3 4 Quak3 4 
 Quak3 4 Quak3 4 Quak3 4 Quak3 4 Quak3 4 Quak3 4 Quak3 4 Quak3 4 Quak3 4 Quak3 4 Quak3 4 Quak3 4 
 Quak3 4 Quak3 4 Quak3 4 Quak3 4 Quak3 4 Quak3 4 Quak3 4 Quak3 4 Quak3 4 Quak3 4 Quak3 4 Quak3 4 
 Quak3 4 Quak3 4 Quak3 4 Quak3 4 Quak3 4 Quak3 4 Quak3 4 Quak3 4 Quak3 4 Quak3 4 Quak3 4 Quak3 4 
 Quak3 4 Quak3 4 Quak3 4 Quak3 4 Quak3 4 Quak3 4 Quak3 4 Quak3 4 Quak3 4 Quak3 4 Quak3 4 Quak3 4 
 Quak3 4 Quak3 4 Quak3 4 Quak3 4 Quak3 4 Quak3 4 Quak3 4 Quak3 4 Quak3 4 Quak3 4 Quak3 4 Quak3 4 
 Quak3 4 
  
  And that's all folks! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dryden555
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 20, 2005 8:19 pm PT
Review:  I played Quake 2 more than any other FPS ever, so I'm having a blast with this game. The enemies 
 are diverse, strange-looking and well-animated. The levels are even better; they are often suprisingly 
 colorful and a lot of effort was made to make the levels look interesting. 
  
  Still though, if you take away the nice graphical style, you have a standard modern FPS underneath. 
 Nothing wrong with that. Raven did a great job with this game. 
  
  There are many little touches that are nice. Like the way your screen slightly shakes when using 
 the machinegun. The way flashlights of the other players on your team illuminate the level in real-time. 
 These flourishes add up to a well-crafted game. There's plenty of reasons to buy Quake 4.
  
  Without bump-mapping enabled, figures will look like they have seams running vertically through 
 them (yes I have the latest nVidia drivers and a great video card) . So you really want bump-mapping 
 enabled to make the game look its best. Shadows and lighting are also really well done. Turning 
 off shadows would really detract from the look of the game. 
  
  I'm really impressed with the graphics and I'm picky about that. I hated the dark boring corridors 
 of Doom3. But fair warning that you need a fast and good video card to get this baby to look good.
 
  
  I wont give anything away, but the levels get REALLY great half way through the single player game. 
 
  
  Playing the single-player at a harder difficulty makes the gameplay more fun. You have to strafe 
 and choose weapons carefully. If you blow thru the game at normal diff, you aren't really experiencing 
 the game. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilblackgirl
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 19, 2005 5:34 am PT
Review:  I loved Quake 2 and all of its expansions. It was the first FPS that i ever played an expansion 
 for, so when i found out that this would be picking up right where Q2 left off, i knew that the 
 storyline, if anything, would be entertaining and engaging. Thus far, i am not disappointed. I've 
 not finished the game and haven't had a chance to play MP yet, but i'm giving this game high ratings 
 for it's old school type of shooter fun. It's graphic and bloody and there's quite a bit of language, 
 so it's not for the yunguns, but if you have a good stomach and like the fast paced action, this 
 one is worth the purchase. The graphics are doom 3 quality in a much better environment instead 
 of just dark corridors. The sounds and voice acting are great. And i was just as excited to find 
 out that my DVD rom copy has the full copy of Quake 2 and its expansions on it. woot! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kokojambo
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 19, 2005 3:59 am PT
Review:  for the quake 3 arena fan this is amust game !!!! i play quake 3 arena like 4 hours a day and we 
 waited for this game to come and give us old gamers somthing new to play . like they say the multyplayer 
 will be good in awille when all the new mode will come out and then this game will be truly the 
 nomber 1 game 
  the singel player is realy cool very much like doom but much better / enjoy it !!!
  for the quake 
 3 arena fan this is amust game !!!! i play quake 3 arena like 4 hours a day and we waited for this 
 game to come and give us old gamers somthing new to play . like they say the multyplayer will be 
 good in awille when all the new mode will come out and then this game will be truly the nomber 
 1 game 
  the singel player is realy cool very much like doom but much better / enjoy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CarnivaleClown
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 19, 2005 2:45 am PT
Review:  What can I say? It is truly a fun FPS to play. The game looks splendid and 3x better looking than 
 Doom 3. The textures look very good and characters models are done very well. The smoke effects 
 from a fire after an explosion look great. It is the best smoke effect I have yet to see in a game. 
 Lighting of course is great and in a few areas looks stupendous with colored lights that seem to 
 change the atmosphere very well. The game is a little dark like Doom 3, but not to the point where 
 you need a flash light 90% of the time. Raven did an excellent job designing this game. The game 
 looks exactly like it should. If you were actually in Quake II in real life, it would look exactly 
 like this game does. 
  
  The feel of the game is what I was expecting having played the old Quake games and Doom 3. Run 
 and gun! This time around it isnt fully scripted AI. Every now and then a Strogg will jump down 
 behind you or an ally. The fun thing about non scripted AI in this game is that you can take cover 
 behind a container or a wall. Every now and then you are escorting a medic or a tech (I believe 
 it is a tech) and they will heal you to full health or give you full armor. 
  
  Performance is pretty good. The only slow downs I get are when doors are opening. Some had problems 
 like this in Doom 3 and there were several fixes for it. I am sure those will work for Q4 as well. 
 On my system (listed at end of review with video settings being used) with Vertical Sync on I get 
 30-60FPS. It appears to me in my game that it locks at 30fps minimum. The only time it goes to 
 29 and below is when doors open. During fire fights it is 30-60. 
  
  Multiplayer is true to its roots in my eyes. Some do not like that it is basically Quake 3 Arena 
 with a graphical upgrade, but I love it. There may not be a lot of online maps, but give it a few 
 months there will be. They might even make a Arena expansion pack to help out the MP. It is extremely 
 fast paced because some of the maps are very small. It supports maximum of 16 people. Again, many 
 do not like this and somehow they are comparing it to BF2 and Joint Ops. I am sure people can see 
 what is wrong with that picture. 
  
  The only beefs I have are very minor. Ragdolls are not that great. I like how the enemies die and 
 it seems like the corpse is dead weight. They are not flying around or dieing in really awkward 
 positions (most of the time) . The weird side of the ragdolls is that sometimes they do die really 
 inept. Sometimes you will unload a full machine gun clip at a charging Strogg and he will fall 
 forward and end up in a position that looks like an upside V with his head and feet touching 
 the ground while his butt is straight up in the air. The only other beef I have is the Special 
 Edition. Could they have made it any cheaper? I was expecting the game to come in a tin or have 
 a nice little art book. Even a poster would have been cool. But Quake II and a making of video 
 will work. 
  
  All in all this is a great game. If you enjoyed the other Quake games then you will most likely 
 enjoy this addition. Raven did a very good job developing this game. Highly stable and gorgeous. 
 
  
  System Specs:
  AMD A64 3200+
  MSI K8N Neo Plat mobo
  2x 512MB of Crucial Ballistix RAM
  eVGA 6800GT
  420W Enermax PSU
  
  Video settings
 
  1280x1024 resolution
  Video Quailty - High
  Everything in Advanced Video Options is set to "Yes" and AA is set to 2x
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ar_zia
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 19, 2005 2:28 am PT
Review:  All players of the id games will surely love this one too.. Quake 4 is one of the most mind bogling 
 & interesting shooter in its single-player mode.
  
  The game's combat reallly satisfying and better than Doom 3 's the darkness is here to in Quake 
 4 like Doom 3 which makes it difficult to stand in a place When matched with the game's amazing 
 graphical design makes the game more intense and real.
  
  Yet Quake 4 is a massive system hog with all settings on low, I got poor frame rates & there fore 
 i had to play it on my friends pc where it worked nicely and was more enjoyable .....
  
  The multiplayer aspect being ok with only 16 players to boot , but it's still a ton of fun. I think 
 id was paying more attention to the single player mode .. may be an expansion pack will do the stuff 
 were it lacks in the multiplayer mode...
  
  The major problem with the world is that they expect too much ...... come on u cant get everthing 
 at your first wish .... the editors liked F. E. A. R because they didnt expect too much from it .... but 
 there the story lacked ... poor level designs whereas in quake it was Awesome.... and here the A. I 
 was better the F. E. A. R ....
  
  Even in F. E. A. R restrictions on the guns was a headache ..... where as here i loved the upgrades 
 to the guns ... and experimenting them in different ways... even the sound effects was coooollll.
 
  
  So i just want to ask wasnt this all enough... For the editors that they want more.....
  
  Recommened for F. P. S fans to buy at once.... those who loved Doom 3 willl love this even more 
 ....
  
  Freaks.... Alive... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kapestais
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 19, 2005 12:52 am PT
Review:  Man i've been looking for a game like this for a long long time. A game in which you dont really 
 care about the story or trying to do puzzle solving. This game just gets straight to it, "Pointless 
 Killing" and i love it. This game accompolishes everything doom 3 didnt. Its fun, fast paced, has 
 some really cool weapons (not to mention they sound awesome) . The only thing lacking about this 
 game is the multiplayer right now, but dont worry the new enemy territory mod should come out early 
 next year. My advice, get this game you wont regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trigun0006
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 18, 2005 9:29 pm PT
Review:  I would like to say that every editorial review has given it a Supprisingly low rating, when it 
 deserves much more credit. First of all the graphics are great: Second, the game play is old school 
 in a type that hasnt been used good in years, and is more fun than any other game that ive played 
 sence Half-life 2 (would also recomend) : and third, the games story line is great and is verry 
 well projected. On the down side, the multyplayer isnt that unique, but is still quite fun. And 
 also, this is an absolute computer power hog, much like doom 3 was about a year and a half ago. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: terrancemulloy
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 18, 2005 8:46 pm PT
Review:  
  I was a little bit dissapointed in the fact that I have a pc with a reasonable amount of RAM (1gig) 
 and a GeForceFX 5700 card. Not the greatest, but hey Doom 3 still gave me a decent frame rate on 
 medium settings.
  
  Yet Quake 4 is a massive system hog - even on a resolution of 800x600 and all settings on low, 
 I still got poor frame rates. So as a rssult Im now forced to run everything on the lowest of low. 
 It all looks pretty bad as they're no effects or no bump mapping either. But I get a decent frame 
 rate and I can play the game. So that's what counts, and I must accept the fact that developers 
 are now making games to usher in the new breed of video cards. So, even though my system is new-ish 
 by about a year, it may be time to upgrade.
  
  As far as the game itself goes, this is Quake all over. Fast paced, violent, brutal and chunky. 
 I have heard people complain about the multiplayer aspect being so-so, but it's still a ton of 
 fun. It; s obvious the emphasis is on single player, and that's still ok by me as it's a great sequal 
 to Quake II. Theres heaps to explore and heaps to interact with and frag..... if only I could see 
 it in all it's glory : (
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: life4hire
Rating: 6.1
Date: Oct 18, 2005 8:34 pm PT
Review:  16 players online prevents this game from succeeding expecially in a world of Battle Field 2 with 
 64 online per server in addition to Joint Operations with 150 per server. Graphics look great but 
 there will be no one to play with online.
  
  10 hours of single player just dont cut it anymore.
  
  With these two factors I really wonder 
 if they put any work into it or just changed the textures of Doom 3. This game is not creative 
 in any way. A warning is that there is no demo prior to release and the multi play lacks focus. 
 I think squad focused combat is close to being a minimum for modern shooters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: __MACK__
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 18, 2005 7:20 pm PT
Review:  Graphics : This truly is one of the best looking games out there right now. Textures, lighting, 
 shadowing, special effects and art are all superb.
  
  Gameplay: The single player should take an experienced FPS games 9-10 hours to complete. The action 
 is good, but it's nothing you haven't seen before. There are much better single player first person 
 shooter experiences out there. The vehicles you drive are sort of mediocre. The weapons are cool, 
 fun to use. The Multiplayer is like almost an exact copy of Quake 3 which can be a good thing if 
 you like Quake 3. Sure there are no bots but nobody cares. It's you versus real people. The single 
 player is just right in difficulty.
  
  Sound: The sounds are good. Good voice acting, music. The weapons sounds good. The only real problem 
 is that same darn voice announcer from quake 3. He gets a little annoying after awhile.
  
  Value: Totally worth the money if you loved the Quake games, the multiplayer is the star of the 
 game and can last a long time with you. Sure there are only 9 multiplayer maps, but these 9 maps 
 are GOOD at least.
  
  Conclusion: A great game worth purchasing if you are those who liked Quake 3. Those who detest 
 Quake 3, stay far away as this game is not worth your money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darth-revan
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 4, 2006 3:23 pm PT
Review:  what truly makes quake a good game is the fact that theres a good viriaty with some of the weapons 
 even if they seem like copys from doom. [railgun, no bfg!?!?!?!, nail gun] but they also have traditional 
 ones aswell such as shotguns and rifles and machine guns. the vehicles seem average without the 
 real flair and greatness of games like halo or half-life. it at least varys in its envirnments 
 and monster closets from doom are thankfully gone. there apperently is ducktape on the strogg planet 
 [none on mars apperently] because theres a flashlight attached to his guns [machine gun and blaster] . 
 you dont need it as much as you would in doom 3 and the enemys have a good a. i. and a multyplayer 
 that takes a little more then enough influence from quake 3 [its basicly the same =p] . the bad parts 
 of quake 4, its not as good as fear is but it has great shooter elements that make you feel like 
 your there even though they arent nearly as instense as fears. the only reason this wont be as 
 good of a hit as fear is that it came out on the same day [or almost] . fear is a much better game 
 but if youve plaed through the short campagn of fear and got into the shooter vibe dont hesitate 
 to pick up quake 4 because you wont go wrong in any manner. [i added theses points in to add a bit 
 of humor and corrected info as ive now played multiplayer of quake 4 to death] 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dinamika
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 18, 2005 10:32 am PT
Review:  Finaly QUAKE 4 has arrived and get to plai it. I always thought that QUAKE 4 will never se daylight 
 but now i believe.!!!!!
  
  
  But QUAKE 4 is greater the F. E. A. R because it has very intece action gore gameplay solid doom 3 
 graphics, intelegant AI!!, great level desing, and multiplayer!!!!
  
  I think that the story liner is a bit impressive than the F. E. A. R game because you who you are 
 controling. There Are Loads of weapon my favorites are the SHOTGUN (OWW YA) i kick as with thing.
 
  
  STROGGG are strong enemys like in quake 2. Sound of the weapons are perfect the the muzzle flashes 
 everything is PERFECT i give this game 10 out of 10!!! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
