-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Quake Mission Pack: Dissolution of Eternity
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/quakemissionpackdoe/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr 17, 1997
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.7
Critic Score: 8.3, 1 Review (s)
User Score: 8.2, 95 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Activision
Developer: Rogue Ent.
Genre: Sci-Fi First-Person...
Date:     Mar 31, 1997

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Most of the new weapons in Dissolution are refined versions of hacks previously available on the 
 Web. 

 Activision's first Quake add-on, Hipnotic's Scourge of Armagon, was an excellent enhancement of 
 the original game, combining challenging, well-planned levels with improved versions of independent 
 programmer hacks such as customized weapons and power-ups. Now developer Rogue Entertainment has 
 stepped up to the Quake plate. Its Quake add-on, Dissolution of Eternity (Activision's Quake Mission 
 Pack No. 2) , sets out to expand upon the Quake universe by adding a fresh veneer, while preserving 
 the basic concept of the game. To this end, Dissolution incorporates new themes and adds the requisite 
 number of new monsters, weapons, and levels.   

 Like Armagon, most of the new weapons in Dissolution are refined versions of hacks that were previously 
 available on the Web. Unauthorized armaments such as the grappling hook (which is only available 
 in Capture the Flag games) , multi-rocket, and multi-grenade launchers all make their appearance, 
 but with a perfected look and feel. There's also a Lava Nailgun that spits out sizzling spikes. 
 Same nailgun, more damage. Admittedly, it's satisfying to see four - count them, four - rockets 
 trail into the distance from your sights.. But many of the new weapons - like the multi-rocket 
 launcher just mentioned - are a little too powerful, making it easy to take out some of Quake's 
 more menacing foes, like Death Knights, with a single shot.   

 Of the several new monsters in Dissolution of Eternity, a few are really grabbing, and a few aren't. 
 New foes such as the Hell Spawn (an updated version of that annoying, exploding globule in the 
 original) , Electric Eels (who can hardly be described as "electrifying") , and Phantom Swordsmen 
 (swinging bodiless swords) don't really add any drama to the game's atmosphere. The remaining enemies, 
 however, may actually turn some heads - clean off. Ogres that leap down and lob multiple grenades, 
 hovering grim-reapers called Wraths" who chant while firing off explosive energy spheres, statues 
 who come to life only after you've wrested one of their coveted possessions, and Guardians, lurching 
 ancient warriors who creepily emerge out of the ground, all prove to be frightening and formidable 
 opponents. One level, Elemental Fury II, actually includes multiple lava monsters (a la Chthon) , 
 who spring up without warning to greet you with flying chunks of magma.   

 As the two mission packs are scrutinized closer, the comparison begins to narrow down to level design. 
 The environments in Armagon are fraught with subtle challenges that gradually progress in difficulty 
 as one pushes onward. A couple of levels in Dissolution - namely Blood Sacrifice and Elemental 
 Fury II - are similar in that they grow more interesting as you advance. But while you may find 
 an abundance of new cultural motifs throughout Dissolution's levels - Greco-Roman temples and mosaics 
 and Egyptian Sphinxes and obelisks - the traps found therein aren't, for the most part, consistently 
 challenging. And the maps can become excessively frustrating to navigate.   

 Even the single deathmatch level offered in the game lacks the austerity that makes for a classic 
 network fragging arena. But Quake players who enjoy variations on the multiplayer game should enjoy 
 the options that Rogue has included: Players can host variations such as Tag or Capture the Flag. 

 This pack is worth buying for players looking to further their Quake experience. But with its labyrinthine 
 levels and some frivolous additions, Dissolution of Eternity lacks the same inventive quality that 
 made Armagon a seamless continuation of Quake.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (2 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Humikimi
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 24, 2008 11:26 pm PT
Review:  I have had this and Armagon since release, and have never played fully through them until recently. 
 I can say that even to this day, both have proven to be quite entertaining in their own ways.
 
  
  There is no mistaking that this game is fun like its predecessors, but it isn't perfect. The level 
 design for the first episode is very manageable and fun though it doesn't really add any new additions 
 beyond random earthquakes that can potentially knock you into hazardous environments (I have fallen 
 into lava a few times because of being to hasty in the middle of an earthquake) . The second episode, 
 while offering a much more unique theme with the levels, becomes very confusing to navigate. Though 
 the Egyptian themed levels that were made for traps did this particualrly well, the second episode 
 just feels like a more confusing, albeit prettier version of the first episode. 
  
  The new enemies are mostly fun though. Half of them are just look different to submit to the varying 
 environs (like the statues that come to life, which essentially function exactly like Knights and 
 Death Knights, the floating swords which function exactly like Knights without bodies and the new 
 Hell Spawn which are merely a little more difficutlt to kill) . The other new enemies, namely the 
 Wrath (or was it Wraith?) are wonderful and fun additions that, combined with enemies like the 
 Shambler can prove to be quite a challenge to overcome. I won't spoil what any of the new enemies 
 can do, but I will say that while Armagon threw in enemies that added strategy, these enemies add 
 power to the mix. Not to mention the boss of the first episode is pretty awesome and the last boss 
 is so far the best, most fun and most challenging of the Quake games so far (regarding Quake and 
 its 2 expansions) .
  
  As for the new weapons, they fare well. Other sources complain about them being remakes of online 
 hacks, but that doesn't stop them from being fun. You only really have 2 new weapons, whereas the 
 other 'new' weapons are really only upgraded versions of the others. And another of the 'new' weapons 
 is basically a much slower version of the Rocket Launcher. So though there are 6 new weapons if 
 I am counting correctly, only 2 of them are truly new. The good thing is that with all the weapons 
 and ammo types, you don't have to worry too much about running out of ammo and fighting with your 
 axe. The new powerups are underwhelming at best. The Power Shield is another version of a temporary 
 extra armor and the Gravity Belt, while really fun to use, barely lasts long enough to properly 
 enjoy.
  
  Lastly, the extra Deathmatch Map isn't all that great, though the offering of a couple new modes 
 is nice.
  
  On the bright side, the game still looks great and the new themes add more variety into the mix 
 to keep things fresh with this now aging (or at release time I mean) engine.
  
  The sound effects are the same old thing, and fit in without complaints. The new music, while not 
 quite as enticing as Armagon's new soundtrack, is definitely still good. Strangely enough though, 
 even with the well-done music, it oftentimes feels a little out of place for some reason. Nonetheless, 
 it IS good.
  
  Overall, this is a good expansion pack that rounds out the original Quake series quite nicely and 
 is very much worth getting in order to complete your collection. Unlike past iterations, I'm not 
 quite sure you will be quite as willing to come back to this one, but I am sure you will at least 
 enjoy it while it lasts. Enjoy.
  
  Gameplay: 7/10
  Sound: 8/10
  Graphics: 8/10
  Value: 5/10
  
  OVERALL: 7.0/10.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Azghouls
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 29, 2007 4:39 pm PT
Review:  The Good
  * Exceptional soundtrack
  * The zombies
  
  The Bad
  * Minimal innovation
  * Secrets are more of a chore than a sense of triumph
  * Level designs are at times tedious
 
  
  Gameplay 6
  Graphics 8
  Sound 10
  Value 7
  Tilt 5
  
  Ever since the 1996 mega release of Quake, it seems that everyone wants to take a slice of Quake's 
 pie. From Headgames' 'Aftershock' to the wonderfully innovative Hipnotic's 'Scourge of Armagon' 
 to the countless mods on the internet, 1997 Rogue's Dissolution of Eternity is no exception. However 
 Rogue's efforts fails to capture the innovation of Quake as it looks like a collection of previous 
 Quake's official and unofficial mods and places it all into one package.
  
  Time passed considerably for me when I last played Quake (Scourge of Armagon) . When the first time 
 I booted up Dissolution, glanced above at the death clouds and listening to the crackling of fires, 
 nostalgia kicked in. I'm sure the 'nameless' hero don't think this way however after the third 
 level I felt just like the hero - that is, the feeling of here we go again. It was starting to 
 get monotonous as the level designs are pretty bland (similar to the original Quake) as it was 
 becoming more of a chore than an adventure through hell... actually it was an adventure through 
 hell.
  
  Thankfully the level designs improved when I witnessed these Greco-Roman columns meshed with Egyptian 
 and Mayan temples however it still haven't captivated me as I still continued to dodge blades, 
 avoid lava pits and collecting countless keys.
  
  The Quake army is back including my beloved zombies and some new ones to spice things up. From 
 the stupid 'phantom blades' (blades that swing by themselves) to the 'electric eels' (how lame) 
 to somewhat impressive wraith, it didn't give me a sense of conquering. There are new weapons (e. g. 
 the lava nails - essentially the same as nails but coloured differently and generating hissing 
 sounds once fired) to the triple explosive rocket launcher, the weapons are much more destructive 
 hence able to polish off any enemy that comes your way. This is a shame as it made the game play 
 a lot easier. However I felt it was designed in mind of the multiplayer option more than the single 
 player.
  
  Graphically, the game engine is slowly showing its age. It seems that Rogue's Dissolution of Eternity 
 was trying to keep the traditional Quake feel however considering the gaming industry is on full 
 speed, the traditional idea is failing. Considering the original Quake engine (1996) wasn't really 
 designed for outdoors environments, Hipnotic's 'Scourge of Armagon' changed all of this as evident 
 in Quake 2. Rogue on the other hand shows little improvement so it was more of the same thing than 
 producing the 'wow' factor.
  
  One thing I was glad was the sounds and soundtrack. Even though the sound effects are essentially 
 the same as the previous two Quake games, it still produces that heart-pounding aggressiveness; 
 however they need to ease down the thumping sounds of dead electric eels. They do resides in the 
 water after all. The soundtrack is something to be commendable as there are eight new tracks and 
 worth listening to as a standalone.
  
  As far as mission packs goes, Dissolution is considerably long. Sixteen levels and if you are willing, 
 discovering secrets and four levels of difficulty shows promising value as each map can take thirty 
 minutes plus (if you include killing every creature as well) . To memory I think one took me just 
 over an hour.
  
  Dissolution of Eternity is really for the die-hard original Quake fans or for the newcomers who 
 wishes to experience Quake. However the die-hards will probably find this game a lot easier than 
 Quake owing to the over-powered weapons. Yet true to the word, it has kept to the traditional indoor 
 slogging fest however if you are looking for something new like Scourge or thought Quake as a game 
 (and not as a technical marvel) a little tedious then don't expect Dissolution to spark the dousing 
 flames. Nice at first then boredom will slip in rather quickly. Now I wonder why then Quake 2 was 
 a mega success... 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
