-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Quake
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/quake/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun 22, 1996
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 9.3
Critic Score: 9.4, 8 Review (s)
User Score: 9.0, 2,988 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: id Software
Genre: Sci-Fi First-Person...
Date:     May 31, 1996
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
If you're into action games, or even if you're not, you should be playing Quake right now - it's 
 as good as PC gaming gets. 

 After generating more hype than any unreleased game in history, Quake is finally here. And it makes 
 good on its promise, big time. With no compromises, no excuses, and no bull, Quake delivers an 
 edge-of-the-seat adrenaline rush that begins the moment you set foot in its darkened halls.  

 
  If it sounds like I'm gushing about this game, I am. Quake is a masterpiece on every level, with 
 its ominous atmosphere, silky-smooth animation, incredibly well-balanced gameplay and level design, 
 and unparalleled soundtrack. Once again, the team at id Software has created a no-apologies, ultra-violent 
 gorefest sure to be the new battleground of choice for single and multi-player combatants worldwide. 

  New Gameplay, New Controls   

 The most important distinction between Quake and the drove of first-person action games currently 
 available is that it's set in a true 3-D world. Compared to other titles, Quake's enemies and objects 
 have an entirely new level of depth to them - you can view any game element from any angle with 
 consistently smooth and realistic results. The architecture of the levels is much more sophisticated 
 than it is in competing titles; so are the real-time animations, which include such effects as 
 explosion particles flying in every direction and enormous, spike-like objects shooting out from 
 hidden compartments. The true 3-D environment also allows totally new attack strategies, like bouncing 
 a grenade off a wall in order to blast an opponent skulking around the corner.  

 In Quake, you can attack (or be attacked) from almost any angle or altitude. But gone are the days 
 of merely pointing your gun in the general direction of your enemies and blazing away; if you want 
 to hit something, you're going to have to aim your weapon carefully. That's not as easy as it sounds, 
 because the Quake interface breaks rank with the standard control set of previous id software titles. 
 The new system takes some getting used to, but once learned, provides an unmatched level of control. 
   

 A three-button mouse is almost a must, since it allows you to simultaneously move, turn, and fire 
 in any direction. Although it's possible to play with the keyboard or a game pad, most players 
 will find that in underwater and Deathmatch situations, only the mouse will ensure mastery over 
 both the environment and unruly opponents.  

  Killer Weapons, Killer Effects   

 And speaking of unruly opponents, there's only one way to deal with them: violently. Quake sports 
 a wicked complement of weapons -- grenade and rocket launchers, shotguns, lightning guns, and a nailgun 
 that's so fun to fire I ran out of ammo just shooting it at the walls. (Note to beginning players: 
 Don't shoot at the walls and run out of ammo until ALL of the monsters are dead.)  

 A host of power-ups are also hidden throughout the game, and collecting them can instantly shift 
 the balance of power both in single and multiplayer battles. These items include the Circle of 
 Protection, which gives you 666 hit points, enough to go toe-to-toe with just about anyone; the 
 Ring of Shadows, which makes you invisible (except for the two glowing eyeballs your enemies can 
 spot floating in space) ; and Quake Power, a true humdinger that dramatically increases the damage 
 levels of all your weaponry (you can open up a family-size can of whoop-ass on anyone once you've 
 collected this icon) .  

 All this is backed by graphics that are awesome in their own right. The creatures that fill the 
 game's four worlds and 28 levels are, as you might expect, sick, twisted, and perverse. The visceral 
 effect of the bloody grimaces and entropic bioforms is intensified by animation that's unusually 
 smooth and utterly convincing. The first time I was attacked by a hook-wielding enemy, I actually 
 dropped the mouse and backed away from the computer. (Second note for beginning players: Don't 
 drop the mouse and back away from the computer until ALL of the monsters are dead...)   

 The graphics are perfectly complemented by sound effects and ambient tunes from the darker regions 
 of Trent Reznor's musical mind. Simply put, this is the best soundtrack ever created for a computer 
 game. Reznor's eerie sounds and unsettling background music push Quake's already dark and creepy 
 atmosphere into the realm of pure evil.  

  Deathmatch Deluxe   

 Yes, "kill, and keep on killing" is clearly the message here, and with Quake's 28 artfully balanced 
 multiplayer maps, it's a hard message to resist. I spent two days playing against Quake's design 
 team in Deathmatch mode (third note for beginning players: Don't EVER play Quake's designers in 
 Deathmatch mode) , and the experience was truly unforgettable. Quake's designers have created Deathmatch 
 environments that reward skill rather than luck, and are filled with nooks and crannies and other 
 lovely places to hide while you wait for the unwitting opponent to stroll by. And if merely killing 
 your opponents isn't enough (and for the guys at id, it apparently isn't) , Quake includes a set 
 of extremely debasing death messages - "Player 1 sucks down Player 2's rocket," for example - along 
 with an easy-to-use chat system that enables you to add a few custom pokes of your own.  

 Much more could be said of Quake, but I'll leave the rest for you to discover. The hype surounding 
 this game has been almost unbearable, but in the end, Quake deserves every bit of advance - and 
 until now, unverifiable - praise it has received. If you're into action games, and even if you're 
 not, you should be playing Quake right now - it's as good as PC gaming gets.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (71 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Spy_magnum
Rating: 1
Date: Apr 6, 2009 7:56 am PT
Review:  Not that good as it sounds to be.
  This game is really a disastrous game. Not as frightening as it really sounds and in my opinion 
 very boring. The same things and monsters all over again. The same scenery (really bad) but ofcourse 
 there are people who really know much better than i do.
  However i recommend you to rent it first and see if you like it. My opinion is that if you have 
 played many of such games (frightening and fps games gennerally) then this game is really a tottal 
 disaster.
  Don't forget to rent it first.
  If you want a frightening fps game get the FEAR 2. The best of its kind. Doom 3 is also a good game 
 but rent it first.
  Not that good as it sounds to be.
  This game is really a disastrous game. Not as frightening as it really sounds and in my opinion 
 very boring. The same things and monsters all over again. The same scenery (really bad) but ofcourse 
 there are people who really know much better than i do.
  However i recommend you to rent it first and see if you like it. My opinion is that if you have 
 played many of such games (frightening and fps games gennerally) then this game is really a tottal 
 disaster.
  Don't forget to rent it first.
  If you want a frightening fps game get the FEAR 2. The best of its kind. Doom 3 is also a good game 
 but rent it first.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gumprecht
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 30, 2009 7:02 pm PT
Review:  Quake is a solid game that has held up well considering it's a 13 year old first person shooter. 
 About 2 weeks ago, I was at a flea market picking through some vinyl records and I noticed out 
 of the corner of my eye that there were a few stacks of CDs in decent shape sitting on a table 
 I was near. Right on the top of one of those CD stacks was a complete box copy of Quake. I payed 
 a $1.50 and I now have have a quality piece of ID software to review and share with the Gamespot 
 community.
  
  The most odd thing I encountered in Quake was the first thing you see the very first time you load 
 the game. You start up to see a 3 way forked hallway with "QUAKE" written near the ceiling. At 
 first it seems sort of odd because one hallway, straight ahead of your starting point, has a cracked 
 floor and a doorway. The Hallway to the left is a simple narrow hallway with a door. Then the last 
 hallway is to the right of the starting point and is the most notable one. It has 6 living humans 
 nailed to the walls of the hall and It has a floor that is broken in two and the only thing to 
 fill the hazardious jumpable gap is a pit of lava. I saw this and thought "This all seems totally 
 abstract and feels like it has nothing to do with Quake." Then I noticed when you get close to 
 a door, it'll say (for example depending on whatever hallway you're in) "This Hall Selects Normal 
 Skill." When I read that, I was totally blown away that a first person shooter made in 1996 would 
 have such an interesting menu select system. Remember, this was back when FPS games were essentially 
 a series of facilities with monsters in them. The "Half-Life Story and Scripted Events" formula 
 had yet to be implemented into FPS games. Another similar thing to the difficulty option that is 
 also just as neat is the fact that once you pick your difficulty, you have the option to go to 
 any of the 4 episodes of the game. Think back to how the first Doom had 4 episodes with about ten 
 levels in each, but you had to play them one after the other, in sequencial order. With Quake, 
 I can pick the most ball-breakingist hard difficulty, and then skip 3/4 of the game, and go ahead 
 and take on the final boss within the first hour of playing. Also, if you dislike a particular 
 episode in Quake, you can simply skip it with no penalty. Each episode has it's own specific type 
 of Challenges, like one episode might require you to remember tricky map layouts, and another episode 
 might have an over abundance of high powered enemies. Each episode is hard in a specific manner, 
 and if you don't like it, you won't be forced to play it.
  
  The visuals have exceded my expectations. About 2 weeks ago when I first started playing, I expected 
 Sega 32X or Atari Jaguar quality Graphics, but I couldn't have been more off. Outside of the brown 
 narrow enviornments, this game looks so good and plays so smooth that I'd imagine the Playstation 
 1 would have a hard time running this at 50 to 60 Frames Per Second. In a few retro game stores, 
 I have seen Quake and Quake 2 on Nintendo 64 and I wonder if they would be worth buying because 
 I can't imagine a Nintendo 64 running a game like Quake when Quake was first released. Remember, 
 both the Nintendo 64 and Quake were released in 1996. Quake was a technologically impressive game 
 and the N64 didn't have any performance expansion modules (like the ones needed for Starfox and 
 Perfect Dark) until around 1997/1998, so if the N64 version of Quake can run at a high frame rate 
 with a good draw distance, my hat is off to those coders. Quake's Draw distance is nothing short 
 of perfection. Look at other PC First Person Shooters released in 1996. Krazy Ivan, a mech game 
 from the first person, has distance fog so bad you can only see about 40 feet in front of you. 
 Quake's graphics engine allows you to see as far as the eye can see. There is no distance fog, 
 at all. Things that are far away may seem a tad pixelated and hard to make out, especially in some 
 of the more darker enviornments, but It doesn't detract from the fun and fast paced nature of Quake.
 
  
  The Gameplay is rock solid. Sure a little tweaking is needed but once you get your favorite FPS 
 controls programmed in, it'll be smooth sailing for the next 5 hours of gameplay. The thing I like 
 about Quake over Doom and Wolfenstein 3D is that Quake has the perfect running speed. In Doom, 
 if you touch the control pad too hard for too long, it's like going 0 to 60 in 0.5 seconds. In 
 Wolfenstein 3D, if you had cleared all the enemies out of the level and are looking for the exit 
 to the level, you might as well get some reading done because It'll take you around half an hour 
 to travel across the map. The weapons in Quake are some of the most balanced weapons I've ever 
 seen in an FPS. I said this in my Quake 4 review, I'll say it again. All the weapons have pros 
 and cons to them. Have you ever played a shooter, got a whole bunch of weapons, then you got a 
 shotgun or rocket launcher and stopped using any other gun. In Quake 4, you have to use the right 
 tool for the job. The shotgun kills anything within 2 to 5 shots, but it takes almost a full minute 
 reload, and when you have three strogg in front of you, waiting is out of the question. The nailgun 
 is a great bullet hail storm of destruction but it takes 3 seconds for the gatling gear to warm 
 up and reload times are a good 8 seconds. The assault rifle is an effective, automatic, quick-reloading 
 gun, but it does little damage compared to the rest of your inventory. This element makes the gameplay 
 a fresh experience and in multiplayer, nobody can spam a particular weapon for too long.
  
  I discussed Quake's Story in my Quake 4 review. Basically, Quake 1 is a Doom wad with a full 3-D 
 engine grafted on to make it stand out from the glut of 2.5-D Doom Clones. Even ID admits that 
 Quake has no story in the manual. I am quoting right now, with the manual propped open by my laptop. 
 It states, "There are only 2 goals in Quake. First, Stay Alive. Second, Get out of where you are 
 now." Clear as crystal in black text, from the hands of John Carmack, and John Romero. If you doubt 
 me, go into your closet and dig up your own copy of Quake.
  
  As far as sound goes, the sound effects are your average public domain style explosions and gun 
 shots. The soundtrack is done entirely by Nine-Inch-Nails and I wish I could describe it but since 
 I have Windows Vista and I can only play Quake in Dos-BOX, the music didn't emulate so I'm stuck 
 listening to "BOOM BOOM, SNARL, CRASH, ZOMBIE MOAN, EXPLOSION".
  
  Quake is another fine game from the house that Commander Keen built. Quake was probably the turning 
 point where people starting adressing ID as ID and not "Those Doom guys". Now that I'm thinking 
 about it, Quake was a big contributer to the reason we coined the term "First Person Shooter" and 
 left the term "Doom Clone". But like I was saying, Quake is another Builing Block in the evolution 
 of FPS games made by ID. Wolfenstein 3D gave us the bare bones of FPS gaming. Doom gave us better 
 detailed Graphics, varying height in floors and ceilings, textured floors and ceilings, and a higher 
 frame count. Quake gave us a full 3D engine with no distance fog, you could have a level with multiple 
 floors because In Doom, you couldn't have a room under or above another room, It was all on one 
 flat plane. In Quake you could make a level that resembled a skyscraper office building, with a 
 real-time elevator. Also one last little tidbit about Quake's engine is that it's so flexible. 
 Did you know that Half-Life runs on a later version of the Quake engine, but it's not a recognizable 
 version of the Quake engine because it's 60% rewritten. Half-life runs off an engine called "World 
 Craft", but world craft's foundation is the Quake engine. Tech Specs aside, Quake is fantastic. 
 You can get it on Steam for like 10 bucks, and I got it at a Flea Market for $1.50. My friend bought 
 a complete box and manual copy at a used game store yesterday for $2.99. Plus, Quake has no CD 
 Key, so it doesn't need registering which means you can get a bare copy and not worry. So, all 
 things considered, Quake gets and 8.5 out of 10.
  
  -Addison Gumprecht- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Skeez123sbc
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 12, 2009 1:05 am PT
Review:  This right here is something to talk about! Quake took over a huge chunk of my childhood, mainly 
 from ages 14-16. The game Quake was a 3D Fps shotter that took advantage of being highly moddable 
 by users, had an excellent TCP/IP multiplayer through the internet, and used true 3d graphics instead 
 of those weak ass sprites. Thinking back to this pinnacle of multiplayer first person shooters, 
 it's easy to recall some pretty decent connections online while using a 28.8 baud modem. The online 
 fragfest was intense, with rockets flying and players getting Gibbed! My friends and I got so into 
 this, that we starting a Quake Clan affectionately named "Six Feet Under" with custom Skins that 
 had a 6-FU on the back! We even had a quick battle that was fairly lagged and got our asses smoked 
 by none other than, "Dark Requiem." I believe this team might have had close contacts or even played 
 often with American McGee, a level designer for Quake, but this I can't say for sure. The online 
 battles were a frantic, adrenaline crazed mix of heads flying, grenades exploding, and dodging 
 nailgun fire! Plenty of mods were released, that extended the life of the multiplayer aspect. I 
 remember a grappling hook mod and a feign death mod I could just not play without once I downloaded 
 them! Anyways, this game gave birth to a whole new type of online, team-based gaming. One that 
 could be modified and customized more towards your tastes and some sweet ass graphics to boot! 
 Respect this game, just like you should respect Wolfenstein and Doom! Pay homage!
  
  M. C. SkeeZ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: simpsons_28
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 10, 2009 6:24 pm PT
Review:  Quake is simply the most inspirational first person shooter ever!
  In Quake you play as Ranger (See Quake 3) And a portal, gate, rift whatever you want to call it. 
 Has opened up and it's your job to close it! Throughout the game you will meet menacing monsters 
 who want you dead. There is a huge assortment of weapons from your standard axe to your deadly 
 thunderbolt. Quake is filled with plenty of scares!
  PROS:
  Walk through a portal to choose your diffuculty. Thats awesome.
  Great weapons.
  Menacing boss 
 battles.
  The freedom to look around.
  Fully 3D graphics.
  Some of the best multiplayer ever!
  CONS:
  Even on easy this game is challenging. 
  Bad if 
 you think. "OH! this game has bad grafics it cant bee fun!"
  Other than that this game is nearly perfect!
  Oh yeah it also has some of the best multiplayer. 
 Even today there are still people playing! And this game was made back in the 90's. So if you ever 
 get the chance. BUY THIS GAME
  No excuses. 
  FINAL SCORE 9.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: randomcollegkid
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 1, 2009 5:38 pm PT
Review:  A 16-bit wonder, Quake was one of the very earliest FPSs other than Doom, and although its decade-plus 
 age certainly shows in the graphics, Quake is still an amazing experience. The infrastructure of 
 the game is funny (with a profane Readme and punch-line quit confirmation screens) and makes you 
 laugh; the weapons are satisfying and don't feel underpowered; there are tough enemies, but you 
 get a sense that it's them, not you. The physics are vey nice, and don't create any analomies.
 
  I have only two gripes with Quake, and the first is certainly not its fault; that is, the 16-bit 
 format is a compatability issue, requiring you to use Virtual PC or an emulator like DOSBox to 
 run the game under newer versions of windows.
  Second, even though the levels are well broken up by puzzples, the design can feel ever so slightly 
 repetetive after a while, with a lot of shotgun-blasting with the occasional use of a heavier weapon. 
 It's a shame there isn't more ammo for the nailgun in the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Flarvii
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 21, 2008 4:36 pm PT
Review:  First, which was your favorite level? The Brown Castle, The Greenish-brown Castle or Revenge of 
 the Brown Castle? I liked the brown castle.
  
  There is no storyline in Quake 1, therefore no characters that you need to rescue. If you really 
 want a storyline for this game then you get one: Here is a bunch of people that hate you for some 
 reason please shoot them. This would of been a mind blowing storyline back in the early 1990s but 
 now it's like... crap (but a classic nonetheless) . But ID had a brilliant design feature so that 
 you can die before you've even started the game; take this as a complement ID... kind of. But getting 
 to pick your difficulty by walking through a gateway, why hasn't anyone else done this? I know 
 why! You can die when you want to go on through the "Hard" difficulty setting -but that's only 
 when you can't see the invisible walkway.
  There's not really much to say about this game. ID have released the source code for this game 
 for free if you want to know how they made the game but I was after a storyline when I bought this 
 game and so far... it's just not there.
  
  To sum it all up:
  Quake is a true classic that can -with a few adjustments to its source code- be re-released so 
 that this gem can shine again.
  
  Reason for the rating:
  +1.0 Because that's the lowest score that there is in Gamespot.
  +1.0 Because without Quake heaps 
 of games wouldn't of been possible.
  +1.0 Because of the level design.
  +2.0 Because of the end boss fight. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Dark_Palladin-
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 22, 2009 2:11 pm PT
Review:  Pros and Cons:
  ---
  +Fairly sharp visuals.
  +Gameplay feels pretty good.
  +Nice shotgun sound.
  -Moving around feels yucky at times.
  -Does not come with an built-in 
 level editor.
  -Level design gets mildly repeative.
  
  
  
  
  If your like me, and haven't got much Quake stuff in their collection, playing this game will determine 
 weither you should or not. It, like gamespot said, is just about as good as classic FPS PC games 
 get.
  
  
  
  
  Even with the trial verison demo that I used, the gameplay is outstanding. You play as a nameless 
 marine, hellbent on roaming through what looks like hell's dungeons, slaying millions of demons 
 in your path. You come with an axe, a shotgun, a more powerful shotgun, a nail gun, a bigger nailgun, 
 a grenade launcher, a rocket launcher, and I only have the trial verison, so god knows what else.
 
  
  
  
  Quake is a mixture of both classic Doom in the Doomsday engine and a mixture of Duke Nukem. The 
 Graphics are really neat (At least on the JoeQuake edition) ; Blood splashes when you shoot, peices 
 fly in explosions, the textures and level design is thrilling, and not one glitch in the entire 
 game has been noticed.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  Quake's Sound can be a bit jumpy. The sound of the monsters can be repeative, and the shotgun noises 
 sometimes sound like somebody is banging on a keyboard or something.
  
  
  
  
  Sorry for the short review; I've only been playing the trial verison. Other than that, the other 
 Quake games are definetly worth looking at if you liked this one. And do remember to try QuArk 
 too! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oscarua
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 11, 2008 2:08 pm PT
Review:  Since Quake is already a universal classic, and may have thousands of reviews from players for 
 the whole world. I'm going to make this review from another point of view.
  
  Running 1998 and for the first time i have complete access to a IBM PC Compatible Windows 95 capable, 
 that happens on my first job as Programmer. At that time i never had one, my experiences only counts 
 my Atari 800XL and the 286's on my classes of PC Programming. I can't remember very good but i'am 
 almost sure Q2Demo cames with Windows 98 packaging. So i'm a Atari veteran gamer and of course 
 i can't even see Quake II if i'm not finished Quake, so any way i get Quake and starts to play 
 when my job was finished at the end of the day.
  
  I played a lot of games, i finished dozens of atari games and i played on the most succefull video 
 consoles on that time, NES, SNES, SATURN, MASTER SYSTEM, N64, PS.
  But when i started to play Quake, i instantly came immersed with the creepy athmosphere, the perfect 
 sound and the revolutionary 3D graphics environment. Immediately i knew that something has happens, 
 ID and Quake made a hard twist on gaming industry and community.
  
  I have to agree to say that Q isn't a perfect game, it's a little monotonuos and may be predectible 
 in some parts, but any way this game is the real grandfather of actual FPS because its technological 
 improvements and gameplay can be see even now twelve years since its first appearance, and is a 
 MUST have game for every person who likes videogames. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nintendoguy93
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 17, 2008 6:46 pm PT
Review:  you get a shotgun, go kill some baddies. the 3-D graphics are great considering it was '96 at the 
 time, & the gameplay is like an advanced doom gameplay mechanic with actual 3-D backgrounds instead 
 of a 2-D engine with added depth like classic wolf 3-D & DOOM. because of quake's perfected fps 
 gameplay, it has spawned a rather large community, but i'm not saying this game is perfect. this 
 game always has a grimy or creepy background, not much new environments, like in the first 2 doom 
 games. it can get tiring to look at, but what makes this game convenient is that you can play your 
 music using the options menu, but you can't choose your track. you also get to start off to choose 
 between episodes in the game, which also makes this game convenient, as ID would like it to be. 
 for this game, i say great gameplay, fair backgrounds, & a little weirdness in convenience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jbc1
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 19, 2008 9:29 am PT
Review:  I'm not sure there are many people who would disagree with me when I say that Quake is the most 
 important 3-D (NOTE THE DISTINCTION) FPS in the history of gaming. It revolutionized what interacting 
 with a game world could be like, not just in terms of graphics (though at the time, I almost crapped 
 my pants when I saw them. It almost killed my poor computer, but hey) , but in terms of sound and 
 control (remember the first time you learned how to control your view of the world with the mouse 
 by typing in that command to the console... it was amazing!) . The game had an amazing aesthetic 
 value as well; demonic, dark, grimy, and blasphemous all at once. Fantastic monster design (remember 
 the first time a Fiend jumped at you from out of the darkness? I do. I literally fell out of my 
 chair and was quickly dispatched by its bloody claws. How about the first time an Ogre exploded 
 from a double barrel shotgun blast with quad power? How about the fear inspired by the otherworldy 
 shapes and sounds of the Scrag, or the shear terror of seeing your first Shambler?) . What a scary 
 game too! Not just from the monsters (see the previous list) , but the environment, and especially 
 the soundtrack. Trent Reznor of Nine Inch Nails fame put together an outstanding score to match 
 the ghastly surroundings. What else can I say? Everything in this game was simply top notch, and 
 it's still a pleasure to go back and play it (especially the level Ziggurat Vertigo (the low gravity 
 level) ) . If you haven't played it, get yourself an older, open-GL video card equipped PC with windows 
 98 (maybe XP, I can't remember) , and play it!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: suntzu27
Rating: 10
Date: May 9, 2008 11:28 am PT
Review:  Not much to add that hasn't already been said the First 3-d with a ton of limbs and heads flying 
 around. A completely unique and twisted aresnal to choose from nailgun/axe anyone? Music by NIN 
 scarycrapman.
  
  Back when computers had 32megs of memory and massive 2gb harddrives with 166mhz cpus this was top 
 of the line and even got upgrades along the way when graphics card started to come out.
  
  Add a ton of Mods Quake-ball aka hot-potato, monster wars, and low gravity games just to name a 
 few.
  
  TF Team Fortress being the most popular a whole new game for us multiplayer addicts it was so revolutionary 
 and sick.
  Think counter-strike is to half-life as team fortress is to quake.
  Each Class had unique weapons and skills it was awesome. Even the newer Team Fortress (s) just doesn't 
 seem to have the same fire but its probly just cause it has aged and evolved somewhat from the 
 original I loved so much. 
  
  The only knock you can give is nothing the single player is scary and up there with doom. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aschuhart
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 26, 2008 2:43 am PT
Review:  Quake was a game that had a TON of hype behind it. Ever since the popularity of Doom, your standard 
 2Dish FPS games were coming out of the wood work. Quake set itself a part from all these shooters 
 by being the first FPS game to be a true 3D game. Not only that, the graphics for this game were 
 just astonishing at the time. I remember looking at screenshots just drooling over them. The gameplay 
 animation was very smooth, the enemies animation was outstanding, and of course the blood splatter 
 and gore was plentiful and done in classic id form. Another thing that set Quake apart from any 
 other game at the time was it's soundtrack. Music actually recorded by a famous musician: Trent 
 Reznor of Nine Inch Nails. The music was haunting and eerie which went flawlessly with the levels 
 and dark atmosphere of the game. Though it lacked any type of a storyline what so ever, which was 
 typical of ALL fps games at the time, the game was still extremely fun to play. The levels were 
 done in the classic puzzle format in which you had to find keys to progress. The levels got increasingly 
 more difficult as you progressed through the game and could get quite frustrating at times. There 
 is no doubt that Quake had a huge impact on PC gaming and the FPS genre. A true classic that is 
 still worth playing to this day. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _EXCON_
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 12, 2008 1:33 pm PT
Review:  After id released DOOM, we saw hundreds of clones starting to pop up. Some of these games were 
 good and others just tried to make a name off the DOOM label. Many of these claimed to be the "DOOM 
 killer" but in fact the real killer was id's release of Quake. This is a game that you should not 
 miss.
  
  Quake uses a brand new engine to bring out some impressive 3D graphics for it's time. It allowed 
 the use of 3d models too, which eliminated the use of sprites. On top of this, you will see rooms 
 that stack on each other, allowing for a true 3D environment. If you have a card that supports 
 OpenGL, you can also download the GLQuake mod that allows use of the improved visuals. The sound 
 is done well too, with Trent Reznor providing some scary effects. Zombies sound very creepy, shamblers 
 scare the pants off of you if they catch you off-guard in the dark. This has to be some of the 
 best sound sampling I have heard in many years.
  
  The multiplayer portion of this game keeps it going after completing a large single-player campaign. 
 Quake provides increased multiplayer support over it's older games such as DOOM and Heretic. There 
 is also a fair amount of mods that you can download to add new modes of play to the already entertaining 
 deathmatch experience. If you feel like teaming up with a buddy, you can also run thru the single 
 player game in co-op mode.
  
  If you are looking for this game, you can still get it from www. idsoftware. com. Everybody coming 
 into the 3d FPS genre needs to start here if you do not like sprite games. The gameplay is perfect 
 with enough fun to keep you busy in the world of Quake for a very long time.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: smokedbeef
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 26, 2008 6:56 pm PT
Review:  First The Good Things:
  
  Gameplay: Great gameplay with a wide selection of weapons to blow away evil beasts and orcs.
 
  
  Sounds: Good sounds
  
  Systems: What system requirements? LOL
  
  Graphics: Great graphics (at that time) even better than Doom 1 or 2.
  
  The Bad Things:
 
  
  Gameplay: Bit repetitive.
  
  Sounds: Nothing to say about
  
  Systems: Damn it I told you no system requirements! lol
  
  Graphics: Nothing to say much about. 
 (its an old game)
  
  Overall: Great classic FPS with very litte flaws. This was one of the games that revolutionized 
 what most FPS would be like from 1995- around 2005.
  (Not sure if they sell it anymore so just download it in bittorrent or something if they dont sell 
 it anymore) heheheh ehehehehehehe hehehehehehehehe (try not to download from bittorrent if possible) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Curtis_G_Player
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 30, 2008 8:06 am PT
Review:  THE MOST REVOLUTIONARY GAME EVER ! THE MOST REVOLUTIONARY GAME EVER ! THE MOST REVOLUTIONARY GAME 
 EVER ! THE MOST REVOLUTIONARY GAME EVER ! THE MOST REVOLUTIONARY GAME EVER ! THE MOST REVOLUTIONARY 
 GAME EVER ! THE MOST REVOLUTIONARY GAME EVER ! THE MOST REVOLUTIONARY GAME EVER ! THE MOST REVOLUTIONARY 
 GAME EVER ! THE MOST REVOLUTIONARY GAME EVER ! THE MOST REVOLUTIONARY GAME EVER ! THE MOST REVOLUTIONARY 
 GAME EVER ! THE MOST REVOLUTIONARY GAME EVER ! THE MOST REVOLUTIONARY GAME EVER ! THE MOST REVOLUTIONARY 
 GAME EVER ! THE MOST REVOLUTIONARY GAME EVER ! THE MOST REVOLUTIONARY GAME EVER ! THE MOST REVOLUTIONARY 
 GAME EVER ! THE MOST REVOLUTIONARY GAME EVER ! THE MOST REVOLUTIONARY GAME EVER ! THE MOST REVOLUTIONARY 
 GAME EVER ! THE MOST REVOLUTIONARY GAME EVER ! THE MOST REVOLUTIONARY GAME EVER ! THE MOST REVOLUTIONARY 
 GAME EVER ! THE MOST REVOLUTIONARY GAME EVER ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Skwire
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 21, 2008 2:58 pm PT
Review:  Graphics: 8.2
  Graphically, it looks good, for its time and it was quite revolutionary since most other games 
 where more like Doom. The level design is unique in its own way. It defers from indoor, outdoor 
 and even hellish environments. The enemy models is very textured and well animated, again, for 
 its time. Even though they are blocky in some areas, they are creatures of nightmares, which I 
 love.
  
  Sound: 7.7
  The sound can be repetitious simply because of the dialogs of your enemy and your grunts when you 
 either jump or get hurt throughout the whole game. I haven't heard any music, but that could just 
 be me. The sound effect is great in this game is great, from the noise of the wind to the sound 
 of the explosions.
  
  Gameplay: 9.4
  The default control scheme is a little awkward, so to solve the problem, I have to change the configuration 
 to my liking. The control is fluid and responsive. It's easy to aim and shoot until you're enemy 
 is but much. There are plenty of weapons to play around with, like the lightning gun, nail gun, 
 an oddly shaped shotgun, the famed rocket launcher, etc. They are a few other weapons which I didn't 
 bother of mentioning since it's either an upgrade or has a different function. There are also a 
 couple of power ups in the game that can help you kill the bastards. There are a total of 26 levels, 
 not counting the hidden levels. Enemies can be repetitious at the beginning of each of the chapters, 
 but later it will be more diverse. 
  
  Quake also a multiplayer option which involves a coop game and deathmatch game. The coop game is 
 well done and it's perfect if you play with friends but only four players can play at the same 
 time. The deathmatch portion of the multiplayer option can be an intense moment, but it's not my 
 cup of tee since you can only play with four other people.
  
  Story: 4
  The Story in Quake isn't told very well. If you want a deeper meaning of the story, you need to 
 read the manual.
  
  Conclusion
  I like this game. It's best if played in short burst though. Since the graphics aren't to good 
 comparing to today, it can give you ether headache or motion sickness. Hope you like my first review 
 and please remember this is just an opinion.
  
  Professional opinion: 7.3
  My opinion: 8.5
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Urworstnhtmare
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 19, 2008 12:07 am PT
Review:  If you love shoot em ups that are gory as can be and that pack a whole lot of fun, then this is 
 the shooter for you. This game has revolutionized the horror shoot em up genre that many of doom's 
 clones tried but so miserably failed to achieve.
  
  The graphics make the game that much more gory, with pixelated blood flying everywhere and as scary 
 monstrosities slash viciously at you. The sound is good with the satisfying click of a shot gun 
 to the moans of the zombies unfortunate enough to cross your path.
  
  The game play is good to with deathmatch or cooperative games online or via a network using levels 
 from the story altered to allow all 9 weapons to be available. Also the game features four varying 
 difficulties (Easy, Normal, Hard and the dreaded Nightmare difficulty) .
  
  All in all, an excellent game that gives Doom a run for its money 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kragspire
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 30, 2007 11:25 pm PT
Review:  After id released DOOM, we saw hundreds of clones starting to pop up. Some of these games were 
 good and others just tried to make a name off the DOOM label. Many of these claimed to be the "DOOM 
 killer" but in fact the real killer was id's release of Quake. This is a game that you should not 
 miss.
  
  Quake uses a brand new engine to bring out some impressive 3D graphics for it's time. It allowed 
 the use of 3d models too, which eliminated the use of sprites. On top of this, you will see rooms 
 that stack on each other, allowing for a true 3D environment. If you have a card that supports 
 OpenGL, you can also download the GLQuake mod that allows use of the improved visuals. The sound 
 is done well too, with Trent Reznor providing some scary effects. Zombies sound very creepy, shamblers 
 scare the pants off of you if they catch you off-guard in the dark. This has to be some of the 
 best sound sampling I have heard in many years.
  
  The multiplayer portion of this game keeps it going after completing a large single-player campaign. 
 Quake provides increased multiplayer support over it's older games such as DOOM and Heretic. There 
 is also a fair amount of mods that you can download to add new modes of play to the already entertaining 
 deathmatch experience. If you feel like teaming up with a buddy, you can also run thru the single 
 player game in co-op mode.
  
  If you are looking for this game, you can still get it from www. idsoftware. com. Everybody coming 
 into the 3d FPS genre needs to start here if you do not like sprite games. The gameplay is perfect 
 with enough fun to keep you busy in the world of Quake for a very long time.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: red_raven01
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 28, 2007 11:48 am PT
Review:  After Doom revolutionized first-person shooters, Quake raised the bar and set standards featuring 
 improved visuals in a 3D environment, excellent controls, numerous monsters and a vast online experience. 
 Much darker in theme, the four dimensions contain cathedrals, tombs of the undead, base installations 
 and nightmarish realms, and each dimension is broken into various levels with an end-boss. When 
 a dimension's rune is collected, the player returns to a central hub from which other levels are 
 chosen.
  
  With the 3D environments, a number of dark and detailed textures are used to create an evil-looking 
 atmosphere. The level architecture is quite astonishing, featuring pillars, lava rivers, cracks 
 in walls, ceiling-support beams and other gothic details. Nine Inch Nails' ambient soundtrack adds 
 to the experience with subtle but disturbing noises.
  
  Controls are precise, with an emphasis on strafing around monsters, and movement is in full 360 
 degrees allowing one to view all aspects of the level. Monsters are innovative and smart, including 
 zombies that tear off their own limbs and throw them as weapons, undead marines, hellhounds, piranha-like 
 fish, evasive and fast-moving Fiends, sword-bearing knights, and the menacing Shambler. Likewise, 
 the armaments are excellent, ranging from an axe and grenade and rocket launchers to the double-barreled 
 shotgun and Nailgun.
  
  Power-ups, such as three different armors, an invulnerable Pentagram of Protection, the devastating 
 Quad Damage and Ring of Shadows, are strewn about the levels creating a level playing field when 
 fighting certain monsters. These items are also useful when involved in a deathmatch. Quake is 
 one of the first games to make use of Internet gaming; 16 combatants can face off on a server or 
 via LAN. Aside from a few lag issues, the engine is stable and runs well on a full server. 
  
  Quake was a revolution in the first-person shooter genre. Based on the company's own Doom and 
 Doom II, id Software set out to make a game where the player would feel in the world. By programming 
 the options to jump and look up and down, they did just that. It took the action side of Doom and 
 evolved it into a full 3D world. Instead of sprite based (and pixilated) monsters, they went with 
 polygonal enemies and creatures. It also helped to revolutionize online gaming. It was the first 
 game to really catch with the mainstream multi-player market. After Quake, almost every game released 
 (in the first-person shooter and real time strategy genres) has a multi-player feature of some 
 sorts.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dark_orb
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 26, 2007 8:59 pm PT
Review:  Back in 1996 ID software, the minds that brought us The hit classics Wolfenstein 3D, Doom, and 
 Doom II released Quake. And it was awesome. Quake brought us from a world of 3d environments and 
 2d sprites to a true 3d world and it was truly amazing back then. Even today the original Quake 
 offers a dark, violent, and still enjoyable FPS experience.
  
  Quake plays like most shooters do now and is very similar to the classic Doom games in almost every 
 way. Your alone against the hordes of hell spawn. You have your levels with a start point and an 
 exit to the next level, some locked doors and keys to find, and a whole lot of monsters to kill 
 along the way. You'll start off with just an axe and a shotgun but will eventually find a better 
 shotgun, nailguns, rocket launchers, and a lightning gun of sorts. The levels have secrets to find 
 for bonus equipment, health, and ammo for those that want to look. Any seasoned FPS player will 
 want to play it on the Hard difficulty setting as on normal it isn't much of a challenge. And even 
 on hard it's still a brief, if enjoyable, experience. Quake served to help pioneer internet deathmatch 
 gaming and it still holds up as a fun time over LAN. Back in 1996 Quake looked absolutely amazing. 
 In the present day it still looks good, but far from amazing. The environments are varied ranging 
 from grungy tech instillations to medieval looking castles. Quake also features a varied cast of 
 enemies for you to blow to bits. From simple flesh throwing zombies, to giant yeti creatures called 
 Shamblers that will scare the crap out of you when you see them coming. Like most ID titles Quake 
 makes good atmospheric use of the dark which will have you glancing into dark corners for hidden 
 danger. Unlike Doom Quake mainly takes place in smaller indoor environments as opposed to the large 
 spaces seen in previous ID games. This blends well with the artistic style and helps to make the 
 player feel trapped like a rat in a very dangerous maze.
  
  Perhaps the greatest aspect of Quake aside from it's legacy would be it's soundtrack. The sound 
 for Quake was produced by Trent Reznor of Nine Inch Nails fame. If your a fan of NIN then you need 
 to play this game for the soundtrack if nothing else. It's dark and brooding, with great use of 
 distorted guitars and quiet ambient electronic tones. Great thing about Quake is that you can pop 
 the disc in any cd player and listen to the soundtrack or open it up in your media player and rip 
 them to your PCs music library. In the end you owe it to yourself to play Quake. It certainly isn't 
 still the best looking game like it was once thought as, but it still looks good, has an amazing 
 soundtrack, and plays great. It's a piece of FPS history that everybody should play at some point. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Doonage
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 8, 2007 9:13 am PT
Review:  Thinking of the recent, Steam re-release of my longest-played FPS, I can't help but be nostalgic 
 for the days of fragging and gibbing my way through forests of baddies with my three favorite weapons: 
 the super nail gun; the grenade launcher and, everyone's favorite; the boomstick. I find myself 
 in a state of pre-teen giddiness, thinking of all the co-op LAN matches with friends... before 
 the best mod in the history of modding came about: Team Fortress.
  
  Team Fortress sucked me in to many a late night spent infecting spies with poison, setting up them 
 the bomb and building those delightful sentry guns. I played this game for years, and - now that 
 it's back - hope the trip down memory lane will be just as exciting.
  
  Quite possibly my only, truly perfect, game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adders11
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 12, 2008 4:10 am PT
Review:  Quake is the best in the series and one of the best, most influential games of the genre of all 
 time. It was also the first fully 3D shooter. 
  
  Unlike Quake 2 or Quake 4 you only fight in high-tech military bases at the start of each chapter. 
 Instead you'll be fighting in haunted castles, graveyards and other medieval structures. Now this 
 is Quake! The enemies arent cyborgs either, they're ogres with chainsaws, zombies, knights, crazy 
 monsters and soldiers! I love the weapons- nailguns, shotguns, axes, grenade launchers and even 
 an electric gun! 
  
  The graphics were cutting edge in their day, it was the first full 3D FPS. I love the textures 
 and lighting effects. The music is top-notch too- its some of the most eerie music you'll ever 
 hear in a game! 
  
  And finally, I have managed to get the game working on Windows XP. Hurray! This is one of the greatest 
 PC games of all time! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DiabeticDood
Rating: 8.1
Date: Apr 26, 2007 5:48 pm PT
Review:  This is were it all started. Quake 1 is a legend in gaming and even outside. This one is a lot 
 more like Doom. The maps are like mazes kill the enemies and get to the exit. The sounds are actually 
 sound really good for todays standards. The graphics arent the best in the world anymore but 
 back then Im sure people were just in shock. I think it could be really great if they remade this 
 game with todays standards! That would be awesome. If you can find this game there are still people 
 playing online so thats always fun. With this game being so old Im pretty sure its cheap but 
 the real mission is trying to find this game. Its being so old is gonna make it harder to find 
 in stores. There is the collection of the Quake games for 20 dollars Quakes 1-3. So you could get 
 that. This game is still great in my opinion even after all these years its still a fantastic 
 game. I would love to see a remake with todays standards sometime in the near future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: agturboninja
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 20, 2007 5:31 pm PT
Review:  The single player mode was odd with the four episodes having lots of varied level design. This 
 was the first FPS kicking 3D. Duke Nukem 3D and Doom was 3D with 2D sprites.
  
  There wasn't even a 2 sentence story like Doom. Quake was just portals and Bam BAM. What the *&amp;^% 
 is that Bam Bam. Bejeezus! those jumpy things with claws popped out of nowhere. Then there was 
 the white teddy bear with claws and shoots lightning. The units were nasty tough and there would 
 be a lot of them.
  
  The multiplayer is the greatest thing about the game. 16 players shooting rockets, grenades, shotguns 
 in a map. That's cool. This was my first experineces of multiplayer at the age of 6. It took consoles 
 7 years to get a game of 16 people. Also shooting the thunderbolt gun in the water was cool because 
 it would kill everyone in the water.
  
  Quake is a fun shooter and it doesn't have any story but it is driven by the barrel of the gun 
 and that's all you really need. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NitroDriven
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 20, 2007 11:47 am PT
Review:  Quake was the first FPS game to feature the Z-axis. If it wasn't for that, then the fast paced 
 deathmatch never would have existed. That's what the game's known for. The single player was pretty 
 darn good too if you ask me. It had interesting monsters, weapons, level designs and story. Graphics 
 looked very good for that period. Looking at a monster in all his 3D glory was awesome, and so 
 was looking up at the ceiling without the entire level shape-shifting. Awkward it was. Boss fight 
 was a bit disappointing, but whatever.
  
  Bottom line is, I don't think I've ever had so much fun playing a game. I was 8 years old when 
 Quake came out, and my first time playing it was at my cousins house. I begged him to let me borrow 
 it, and the rest was history.
  
  Quake is a classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xtreme_chief
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 4, 2007 12:08 am PT
Review:  The second best game ever nest to QUAKE 2 which is the best game ever made. It still seems adictive 
 to me. Great weapons great sound and great graphics for it's time and the gameplay beats a lot 
 of games today so let me explain why that is true. QUAKE is a game where you just run around shooting 
 continuously and that is heartpounding because there barely is any stops besides easy loads. The 
 whole gothic castle art is great for it's time especially with the purple sky which gives the game 
 a spooky effect that worked back then and I think is still pretty good. QUAKE monsters are easy 
 to kill but thats good because there is a lot of them and once you start running and shooting you 
 will not be able to stop yourself. CLASSIC QUAKE. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kanedajjj5757
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 30, 2007 8:15 pm PT
Review:  like ID software's first FPS sensation Doom, Quake changed the way FPS games would be made and 
 played. utilizing the full capabilities of the most recent Direct-X at the time , Quake delivered 
 a super-realistic gaming atmosphere with realistic creatures and entities, background noises, sound 
 effects, particle effects, and lighting. the game was so real to me that it scared the crap out 
 of me if a monster like those zombies (those carcasses that throw their own entrails at you) snuck 
 up on me. if you want to know what a true FPS is like or if yuo like a flat out great game, you 
 will play Quake: the doomed dimension.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ratix2
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 17, 2007 3:36 pm PT
Review:  quake was released by id software almost 11 years ago. taht 11 years has seen alot of changes in 
 game technology. while the release of games as beautiful and immersive as crysis and unreal tournament 
 3 are on the horizon quakes graphics and sound are simplistic and medicore by comaprison. but even 
 though the graphics and sound may be dated the game still holds up as a wonderful experience and 
 one that proves graphics arent what makes a game stand the test of time.
  
  part of quakes appeal lies in its simplism. at its core its a classic run and gun shooter and is 
 exactly what a first person shooter was meant to be. the weapons are pretty stantard alough a somewhat 
 odd assortment. a shotgun, double-barreled shotgun, nailgun, super nailgun (what could be considered 
 the games minigun) , a grenade launcher, a rocket launcher and finally a lightning gun. the shotgun 
 acts somewhat like a pistol in that it hits a small area whereas the db shotgun is more like an 
 actual shotgun in that it hits a wider area. the nailgun acts as the games maching gun hitting 
 almost dead center where your aiming and the super nailgun does the same but fires the nails much 
 faster. the grenade launcher and rocket laucncher need no explination and the lightning gun fires 
 a bolt of electricity strait (dont use in the tub though) . your almost always faced with a duanting 
 number of enemies that come at you from every direction with the only goal of taking away your 
 life making you start back at the level entrance. this is exactly what the first person shooter 
 was meant to be. run, gun and get to the end of the level alive and if it moves, shoot it. theres 
 plenty of ammo and health along the way (the nailgun cases even have the nine inch nails logo on 
 them) . quakes difficulty is also something thats done quite well. the easy difficulty is quite 
 easy while nightmare is just what it says it is (so hard in fact that id hid the entrance to it 
 away; can you find it?) . today though quake is more of a game that goes perfect on a rainy day. 
 it can be finished in only a couple of hours and doesent really have any replay value immeadlty 
 after youve beaten it.
  
  quakes multiplayer is just as fun as ever. if you can get enough people in a lan your in for hours 
 of fun. many of the mods and custom maps are sitll floating around the internet in addition to 
 whats included in the game. if your not up to finding eoungh people then you can try deathmatch 
 classic avaiable over steam. its basically a rehash of quakes deathmatch, complete with orginal 
 weapon models, items and levels but with better sound and graphics.
  
  overall quake stands as a wonderful game even after almost 11 years. the single player is perfect 
 for a slow weekend and if you cant get enought people the multiplayer is just as fun as ever. while 
 the graphics and sound arnt up to par to day thoguh quake is a perfect example that graphics arnt 
 what make a great game great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Volodnikov9
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 20, 2007 2:44 pm PT
Review:  It's been years since the original Quake was released, but since then nothing has changed except 
 the genre that it helped create: the first person shooter. While it may not have been the first 
 game to develop the idea, Quake remains an icon throughout the gaming world as an revolutionary 
 and truly iconic game. Unlike it's sequel , Quake II, Quake is set in a kind of fantasy world ravaged 
 by all sorts of dimented creatures. From lowly zombies to the infamous Shambler, you'll fight your 
 way through its levels, and you'll have a great time doing it.
  
  Graphically, Quake was one of the first FPS to utilize a 3D engine. While it's been a little over 
 ten years since Quake was released, it still looks surprisingly good. Additonally, with the help 
 of a modification by the name of Tenebrae, you can utilize recent shader models with Quake for 
 a more upgraded experience. In the original game, however, it looks great for it's time; nobody 
 had really experienced anything like it. In 1996, the Shambler was terrifyingly realistic, scaring 
 the many sons who had watched their father play on their old PCs running Windows 95. In terms of 
 sound, Quake was also good, bringing the memorable ker-plunk of the grenade launcher, zombie's 
 cries, and the revving of the enemy's chainsaw.
  
  As you probably know, Quake's gameplay is a blast. While it wouldn't be deemed innovative if it 
 was released today, if it wasn't for Quake, 3D first person shooters wouldn't be the same. With 
 a variety of weapons including double barreled shotguns and rocket launchers, you'll immediately 
 recognize where many modern FPS got ideas from. Additionally, if you enjoy Quake, Quake II is also 
 a very good game in which you fight the alien race, the Strogg. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DooM-ftw-
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 12, 2007 2:15 pm PT
Review:  If you say QUAKE you say HISTORY.. Why? Well because it is the first game who has a full 3D graphic 
 engine. Well just graphics make a game good? Sure not but lets take a look at the game... this game 
 is one of the first games where you can really look up or down and really aim the target like in 
 all the recent games. You can jump, you can crouch which was a very innovative thing for that time 
 because in most of the games you could just move forword, backword, left and right. You can also push 
 some buttons, activate some traps (for example the first episode boss can be killed only by pressing 
 two buttons which activate a deadly trap that slays the monster)
  The sound of the game is just stunning, absolutely incredible for 1996..... Unlike other shooters 
 weapons started to sound like weapons and monsters started to sound like monsters.. creating a very 
 addictive game atmosphere.
  The game also has a impressive multiplayer , a very dynamic multiplayer...
  Overall QUAKE is 
 one of the most revolutionary shooters ever made and contribute to the development of nowadays 
 shooters and it is considered one of the best games ever made. The game deserves a TEN for what 
 it was for the entire history of FPS gaming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chaos_rival
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 10, 2007 7:58 am PT
Review:  The game which reallocated the term 'first person shooting game'. Not any special plot, but who 
 cares about the plot. You are a marine, and you have to kill all the evil forces that they want 
 to conquer earth and using the dimensional gates to accomplish their plan. Amazing atmosphere, 
 in combination with mysterious music. The enemies are very well designed, inspired from Lovecraft's 
 novels, each of them have unique powers and different strategy. The avalaible guns are all very 
 usefull (usually most of the fps games, have a lot of useless guns) , and you need all of them to 
 use them wisely in order to survive from the hell on earth. All the levels are very beautiful and 
 the secrets areas very clever. Quake is game which you are going to play again and again in different 
 levels and try to discover all the secrets and use different strategics. If you want to live the 
 real experience of survival, Quake is the answer. (The ending is the real hit of the game) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Demon6786
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 9, 2007 7:48 am PT
Review:  Wow.. this game is rare, im the only one of all the people i know (remember i know a lot of people) 
 that has the original quake. And the only way i got it is because my uncle died of cancer (yes 
 it does suck) and i inherited all his games.. which was like 50 games. Anyway you start out with 
 a shotgun in this game, which is awesome.. the secrets are cool because when you shoot them the 
 walls bleed. The powerups in this game are awesome, invisiblity, invincibility, quad damage, HELL 
 YEA, i love quad damage, because it increases your damage by four and u can turn the enemies into 
 mush with just your shotgun, which is awesome. The levels are awesome and the enemies are cool, 
 except for the giant teddy bear ( i call it a teddy bear) which is huge and shoots lightning bolts 
 at you.. The boss fights are a bit disappointing, like the first one, wow im pushing buttons, ah 
 who cares everything else is good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Humikimi
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 23, 2007 3:26 pm PT
Review:  Well let me tell you right now, I grew up on this game. I have been extremely bias towards this 
 game for a while so I didn't feel I would be qualified to give a proper review of the game, but 
 after sitting down with this game for hundreds of hours, for years, I can finally now look back 
 on it and review the game as fairly as possible. So here goes.
  
  Gameplay (9/10) : Now one has to consider three things about this game before we get deep into this 
 review. First, is the time period in which it was released (1996) , and make sure to relate it to 
 that time period. Second, the type of game it is, which is an all-out fun shooter, minus the story 
 elements that make more modern games. Third, how it holds up NOW, even after all of these years. 
 Well this game honestly was quite impressive for its time. If I am not mistaken it was id Software's 
 first 3-D FPS that allowed for freelook (ability to look up and down and all over the place, using 
 a mouse or keyboard) . Otherwise this seemed like another Doom, with slightly different monsters, 
 weapons, and a more medieval setting instead of the Hell/Space Station of Doom. With that being 
 said, this game was amazing. It gave you 8 weapons to choose from, each with its advantages and 
 disadvantages, and there was a slightly small number of monster types, but they are varied in what 
 they do so it is acceptable. The single-player, really shines in the first and fourth episodes, 
 but the middle two really seem like transitions getting you ready for the fourth. Now this isn't 
 necessarily a bad thing, since to this day I still enjoy going through the whole single-player. 
 The campaign is pretty straight forward, kill enemies, acquire keys, press switches, exit and move 
 on. Rinse and repeat. Not much in the story department, but that is ok. The way the levels are 
 set-up is very creative though and makes sure you don't get bored of the game at all. Only time 
 boredome starts to sink in is near the end of Episode Three, but by then you finish the episode 
 and move on to the best one in my opinion. So it is a short lived boredome. Also there is a choice 
 of 4 difficulties, one of which is secret (Nightmare) and extremely challenging. There are also 
 a TON of secrets to be found all over the place so there is always something to say. I will admit 
 though, the single-player is good, but not revolutionary. It is the multiplayer that makes this 
 game. id Software has been known for making some of the best Deathmatch games, and this is no exception. 
 All of the maps are well made and the game just never gets old. Throw that in with the fact that, 
 at this point, there are SO MANY good mods out there that the possibilities are almost endless, 
 although of course slightly limited by the older technology of the game. Either way the multiplayer 
 is great, the only problem with the present is that you have to search a bit to find good servers, 
 but once that obstacle is overcome, there is GREAT fun to be had here.
  
  Graphics (9/10) : For its time, it was BEAUTIFUL. The transition to full 3-D was well done and suits 
 this game well. The environments are well detailed and really make you feel like you are in some 
 sort of Medieval European Hell-like dimension, which is really the intention. The four levels taking 
 place in Human Installations are ok at best, but considering these are only the intro levels to 
 each episode, it is passable. The monsters are well made, and make the desired effect. They each 
 are very distinguishable from eachother as well. The only complaint I have is with the modern look 
 at this game. Now of course one will look at this game and know it is old, but it is too bad that 
 all the bloom effects and higher texture resolutions that were added to the N64 and Arcade versions 
 of this game are not as easy to find patches for, so the full potential of this game falls down 
 a little. Back then, this game looked GREAT. Now, without those extra effects, it is slightly lacking, 
 although in no way horrible. Also, would it have killed the makers to make the marine right or 
 left handed (NOTE: Fixed in Quake II, with the ability to choose as well) ? Either way, considering 
 the age of this game, it looks GREAT.
  
  Sound (9/10) : Excellent. Ambience is well done, sound effects of monsters are well done, and the 
 gones each have nice unique sounds. The marine's sounds are fairly generic but everything else 
 is top-notch. The other great factor is the soundtrack, which fits the mood of this game PERFECTLY. 
 One will likely not find this game scary in the present, but nonetheless the music coupled with 
 the ambience absolutely makes the sound in this game nearly perfect.
  
  Value (10/10) : Plenty of maps out of the box for multiplayer. Tons of mods to play with. Fairly 
 lengthy single player. Tons of secrets to find in the single player that will give you plenty to 
 play for for a while. Four difficulties, one of which is so challenging that it will take you a 
 while to get through it (I can do it with my eyes closed now, but consider that I have been playing 
 the game for 12 years now) . Enough said.
  
  Considering that this game is likely very cheap to buy now, and will run on most ANY computer, 
 it is almost a must buy for FPS fans. Just don't except a great story like HL out of this. But 
 the game is loads of fun nonetheless, a true classic, and a game that truely defined how many FPS's 
 are to this day. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: atb100
Rating: 7.6
Date: Dec 25, 2006 5:27 am PT
Review:  Sleepless hours, messy room, tired eyes and 100 bottles of Coca-Cola. This describes the Quake 
 player in 1996. And I can see why.
  
  Game has everything that you need. Superb graphics (at least 10 years ago) , scary atmosphere and 
 great sound &amp; music and story (even if it is totally pointless) . But SP gradually wears down. 
 At first it's locations are mindblowing and awesome, but after that the textures start to repeat 
 itselves. I was screaming after seeing for the millionth time those same old earth-like textures. 
 There's no variety, almost everything is copy. And objectives are nothing but finish the level 
 and kill baddies. Now, moving to baddies. Actually monsters are quite cool and add spice to the 
 game, from lousy armed men to yeti-like monster. You can see absolutely immediately, that one of 
 the monster designer is Lovecraft fan. And also, the monsters are not sprites but in 3D! That was 
 one of the advancements that iD made.
  
  And the Quake engine is marvellous. With Gouraud shading for moving objects and static lightmap 
 for nonmoving objects. After the source code was released by Carmack in '99, derivative engines 
 came out and these also improved original engine. And of course you can't deny countless maps &amp; 
 mods that came out after the game was released. A lot even surpass original maps and add a lot 
 of variety and exploring. Game's biggest plus is MP. Now it's a little bit aged and servers are 
 often deserted, but I imagine what it was about 10 years ago. It was crowded, people we're thrilled. 
 They chatted, swapped tips and even met each other in real life. Tournaments were held, money won 
 and MP community was growing, growing and growing. That's all thanks to MP, what was those days 
 a big hit. And because of Quake MP's simplicity. You just joined and played, even if you got fragged 
 like hell. Oh well, time to stop bothering you. As I sayed: The SP is lousy and gradually wears 
 off, but MP is strong. I can see what historical value this game has and what milestone it was, 
 but I still can't blindly shout: Quake owns. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Azghouls
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 28, 2006 3:20 am PT
Review:  1996 - Quake - The pioneer of the true FPS - you can mouse look, strafe and you can jump, as in 
 'whee' jump! Big deal? Well it was back then. Also it was the game that took online gaming to new 
 heights (IMHO) .
  
  So what is this game about? Honestly, I don't know. Something about a slipgate, teleportation and 
 kill as many monsters that your ammo allows. And then kill some more.
  
  This unfortunately is a let-down in the game. I guess if you like total bloodbath, pay revenge 
 on 'the fiends of Satan' and do-the-shambler-tango (quick game reload) , then this will be your 
 early birthday present.
  
  The level design is a little boring. Grab key, kill, open door, grab key, kill, and exit. However 
 there are some level designs that really impressed me (mainly Episode III especially the Wind Tunnels 
 and the Vaults of Zin) . So it was obvious that the designers can design really cool levels but 
 didn't.
  
  The collection of arsenals is pretty good though. The shotgun can play as a non-zooming sniper, 
 the scrumptious super nailgun and the grenade launcher will part 'doorways' for you and the baby 
 Thunderbolt will give you pleasurable discharge to your enemies. However don't use the Thunderbolt 
 in water (remember science: electricity + water = do-the-shambler-tango) .
  
  There are thirteen monsters to choose from rottweilers (what's with id and rottweilers - remember 
 Wolfenstein 3D?) to zombies (gotta love them &amp;#8211; worthless twits) , spawns and of course 
 the yeti Shambler (once you have being introduced to one you'll never forget it) . So what do you 
 do to all these chocolate &eacute; clairs? Splatter them.
  
  The overall mood of the game is impressive. Once you enter the slipgate (past level one) then you 
 see gloomy skies, pentagrams, fire and brimstone and dark corridors and yet hear the sounds of 
 distant moans, crackling fires and the whirling air that surrounds you. The music from NIN simply 
 adds well to this environment. It's time to get acquainted with your shotgun. Lock and load partner.
 
  
  Speaking of partner, the game strong points were its online feature. Online game was still at the 
 'developing/growing' stage hence not many games ultilise this medium. id software however took 
 the bull by its horns and introduced a massive online community. Deathmatch and co-op was the two 
 options for online gaming and that my friend was the highlight. Here, I really don't care much 
 about the story but care about fragging. This is the time where boys turn to men; I am Alpha and 
 you are Omega; don't mess with me cause I'm the rocketman; talk is cheap and stats don't lie; eat 
 my shrapnel and call me Lucy sort of thing. Overall, even though the single player mode can be 
 quite a bore at times (little imagination of level designs) what really saved this game was the 
 setting itself (turn off the lights and feel the mood) , sounds and of course the online all-you-can-eat 
 fragfest. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yo_foo
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 18, 2006 1:04 am PT
Review:  How could you not like Quake? Old school 3D shooters don't come much better than this. It's difficult, 
 it's gory and it's awesome fun. Everyone who loves FPS should play this immediately.
  
  It really is beautiful. The game is fantastic on every level. The enemies are memorable, the weapons 
 are brilliant (except for the grenade launcher. God I hate that thing!) and the levels are immersive 
 and fun.
  
  Sure the graphics aren't that good now, but back in yonder year, I would sit at the computer screens 
 for hours drooling over how lifelike the game was, and how graphically violent gibbing the enemies 
 were. People found the game sickeningly violent and realistic. Funny now isn't it!
  
  It is a difficult game to complete, you can get stuck on some of the levels which can be a bit 
 frustrating but all in all it really doesn't come close to the amount of fun you'll have blowing 
 away flying sting ray things and big beast things with huge claws tearing at your body. Gotta love 
 it!
  
  The reality of the ambience is just mind blowing. The cries of the enemies, the gun sounds and 
 the water seemed so real and scary. If you haven't played it already, pick up a copy. Good value 
 now.
  
  :' ( 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ajhu_2003
Rating: 9.8
Date: Sep 10, 2006 1:30 am PT
Review:  According to my consideration I have Quake 1 as the first rank in my list!
  Then comes Half-Life 2 and others!!! OLD is GOLD!!!!! This is game must be played by everyone!!!
 
  A masterpiece of IDSOFTWARE.... John Carmack rules with this one good game!
  We Wish that Quake 5 is like Quake 1 with monsters and not cyborgs (Half-Beast and Robot) . Quake 
 is the over all champion of all the games still people are found in the net playing quake 1, if 
 it was some 100-200 player it would have been outdated but i still find some 2000-4000 players 
 all the time playing Quake multiplayer! Amazing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bob5o
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 21, 2006 11:29 pm PT
Review:  Quake was pretty much the grandfather of online fragfests. This was also the first truly 3D shooter 
 made. So instead of having the screen move left or right when you strafed you actually pivoted 
 around in the world. During said pivoting you would be able to select from a nice collection of 
 weapons and shoot your opponent. The weapons ranged from an axe to a lightning gun. While shooting 
 monsters into gibs you had music done by Nine Inch Nails playing in the background. This was a 
 nice touch to the budding FPS genre. The level design varied a lot, seeing as how you visited many 
 different worlds/dimensions and you had no trouble getting around in them with the very simple 
 controls. 
  
  The lack of a story really didn't help this game out. I know Doom II didn't have much in the story 
 department either but I can forgive Doom II because it pretty much founded the FPS genre. Where 
 as Quake still felt like another Doom clone with some bells and whistles. The single player at 
 least. 
  
  In the end what set Quake apart from the new FPS genre was the online play. Team Fortress was a 
 total blast. Those who played Quake, I'm sure cherished the time they spent with TF. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GaMaoTao
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 20, 2007 4:17 pm PT
Review:  Quake was a pioneer in every aspect of modern fps games. That's for sure.
  
  Ups
  
  The rendering engine, lightmapping and clever color selection gave Quake
  an ultra realistic view 
 for the time that it came out. If you try the glQuake you're gonna be impressed by the earth colors 
 that quake had and realistic hard shadows lighting.
  
  Also it started the serious moding madness and defined the prototype for the online multiplayer 
 games.
  
  Quake was designed to be played fast like a killer rally game, but in its case you shoot and move 
 fast and repeat the sequence. You are pressing some buttons in the middle and searching for some 
 keys, but the basic gameplay is move fast kill fast.
  
  You can check speedrunning if you have a doubt that some players play it like a killer rally.
 
  
  Downs
  
  The single player part of the game is the major down for Quake. I don't have a problem with modern 
 arcade games like Quake but what i call design is upsent of Quake. I see Quake nothing more than 
 a modern version of side scroller shoot'em up games like r-type or arcade games like Pang. It's 
 definetly addictive but it is a game for kids that way.
  The logic behind level connections and transitions are equal to games like Pang. The background 
 changes but you have the same restricted game play.
  Maybe they couldn't design something more complex based on the limitations of the quake engine.
 
  
  The quake script is a joke, and it was written in no more that 10 minutes.
  
  Quake was the prototype for the bad mindless fps that was released after that. It's easy and quick 
 to design a game like quake, release it on time on market and cash in. This is one school of fps 
 game design the other is that of Half Life and a little of Unreal that you're exploring the environments 
 and there is some cinematic atmosphere.
  
  Now i understand that the term fps is preventing any game from serious story driven game design.
 
  
  Even with all the new things that quake introduced i can't call it a game i would remember at the 
 future because it doesn't have not even one
  great design moment that can be written in your memory.
  
  Finally
  
  If you accept that 
 Quake is the modern Pang and you think that modern games should be like old arcades then Quake 
 is a masterpiece and you will spend some fun time with it. If you want to play a game that will 
 give you a virtual experience that you will remember through time ,equal to a good movie then you 
 are at the wrong place.
  
  If you are a gamer that came here by a history link from a modern fps i would recommend don't spend 
 time or money to this game, it is so boring to play so outdated games nowdays. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gta11
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 5, 2006 6:07 am PT
Review:  Quake For PC.
  
  There are some things that all humans crave in life. Food, Water, Love, and the need to blow up 
 other people into small pieces of smoldering flesh. Luckily the human desire to do this has been 
 withheld... until now. In 1996 ID software released Quake. Although they didnt know it, it would 
 spawn 2 sequels, 2 add-on packs and countless mods off the internet. You could think of Quake as 
 the follow up to Doom. They are both First Person Shooters and both made by the company. Quake 
 however was much much better than Quake. Firstly Quake gave us the option to look up and down. 
 Ok so it doenst sound like the latest thing but it did add a new dimension to gameplay rather than 
 just getting a monster in your horizontal line of site. It also marked the first serious first 
 person shooter to be widley playable online. So much were people hooked on this great game that 
 they created clans and started to fight it out with each other. 
  
  Graphics : The goodness of Quakes graphics rely on one thing only. Your computer. If youve got 
 a really old pentium 100 with no graphics card you will be able to run it but it will be at its 
 lowest resolution and look rather grim. If on the other hand you have the latest P3 1000 with 256 
 meg of ram and a Voodoo 3 then you will easily be able to make it look better than such games a 
 Half Life or Soldier of Fortune. The monsters themselves are rather good. If a bit crappy looking 
 on the lowest resolution they still do the job of making you jump out of your seat when you turn 
 the corner and see a ogre pointing a chainsaw in your face. The landscapes however get more than 
 a little repetitive after the 3rd level as its mostly the same Military Base style backdrops but 
 it can be forgiven because beleive me you wont be focuing on the walls but instead the colour of 
 your underwear. 
  
  Sound : Grrrr said the ogre around the corner. I could hear his chainsaw humming away and the clink 
 of his grenades banging against each other. I held my shotgun close to my chest as i heard the 
 ogres footsteps coming closer. I suddenly jamp round the corner, the ogre screamed a hellish curse 
 on my sould as he saw me and charged forward his chainsaw aimed at my jugual. One blast with my 
 shotgun, the sound nearly bursting my eardrums and the evil creature was no more its scream slowly 
 dying as blood leaked from its head. 
  
  The best way i can describe the sound in Quake is hot dang. Like any part horror game (resident 
 evil, silent hill) the sound can be a very enchating and plot leading part of the story. And it 
 is in Quake. You hear the music speed up a few beats so without being able to stop it you start 
 walking more slowly in case a creature jumps out at you. The sound is great. 
  
  Gameplay : Not much to say here. You see a monster and you shoot it. You see a switch and you run 
 into it. You see some health and you pick it up. Repeat to fade but for some reason you still cant 
 stop. Right from the start, you are presented with three separate halls taking you to the three 
 difficulty ratings. Once you select a difficulty, you must choose from four dimensions, each featuring 
 a number of worlds through which you must traverse.
  
  The goal in each world is mainly to survive while grabbing a number of weapons and shooting monsters. 
 You will mostly be searching through mazes to grab keys, but there are a number of diversions, 
 mainly searching for cunningly hidden secret areas, which are usually worth looking for. You can 
 get some cool items, such as "Quad Damage", which allows you to damage enemies four times as much 
 as normal. You will also have to watch out for other dangers in the terrain, such as lava and lethal 
 acids - and a few rather unpleasant traps found on certain levels. 
  
  Enemies are very inventive, and range from simple dogs to savage monsters, including "fiends" and 
 "shamblers", the latter of which can deal large amounts of damage if you're not careful. There 
 are also zombies, which can only be killed by being blown up.
  
  Once you've completed all four dimensions, you unlock the final boss, which looks impressive, but 
 to be honest, it's a bit anticlimatic. The big problem with the boss is that the first time I played, 
 I actually killed it by accident, something that suggests to me that this game is maybe somewhat 
 flawed, and this rather spoils the ending to what it otherwise a very impressive game.
  
  The only other problem is that after a few tries, the game just seems too short.
  
  A very 
 very good purchase considering i picked up the 2 add on packs and the original for about 7 (about 
 $4) . One thing that you can become very engrossed in is the multiplayer mode which is the best 
 thing since sliced bread. The problem is that there are people out there who have been playing 
 quake online since 1996 and are as such very very good at it. So buy it for a couple of months 
 of fun both multiplayer and single. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gmreedy
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 30, 2006 12:17 pm PT
Review:  Quake is a thrilling classic game that makes you want to come back for more. The Graphics aren't 
 so bad. I mean it's a 1996 game! 
  The gameplay is more then what you think it is. A challenging game has to have a lot of tough enemies 
 that take you down quickly. Thats why they made certain weapons for certain enemies. Quake is all 
 about strategy. Its almost like a maze, but with lots of enemies to kill. It's way worth the money 
 to buy this old game. It's sound is pretty good. Realistic gun sounds and the enemies sound pretty 
 good. This game is worth the buy if you really like challenging and gory games. If Quake had a 
 story line, this game would be a lot better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gorgar21
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 18, 2006 12:38 am PT
Review:  When most players look back on the Quake universe, the third or fourth installment usually come 
 to mind. The original Quake was brutal, violent, and nightmarish for its time, even more so than 
 the original Doom. The medieval and hellish settings blended perfectly, giving the entire game 
 a hypnotizingly surreal feel. While the graphics are heavily pixelated by todays standards and 
 the plot is non-existant, it was quite a technological marvel for its time. Every now and then 
 on rainy days, I fire this classic gem up for a one way journey into the depths of madness, mayhem, 
 and the macabre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nightharvest
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 20, 2006 5:05 pm PT
Review:  Quake recently turned ten years old. Personal computers, and PC gaming has seen a lot happen and 
 a staggering amount of development in those ten years. However, Quake still shines today, showing 
 that it has aged gracefully. It was the pioneer of a lot of ideas that are still present in games 
 today. It revolutionized combat games and to this day provides an exhilarating and satisfying gaming 
 experience. 
  
  There is not much of a storyline - you are a marine sent to four different parallel worlds to secure 
 a rune from each, before meeting the boss of all that is wrong - Snub-Nigurath - in her dungeon. 
 What this amounts to is thirty-two levels of traditional run and gun action with secret locations, 
 secret levels and an impressive variety of weapons, enemies and bosses that provide worthy competition 
 and a quality gaming experience. Perhaps most importantly is that this was the first game that 
 brought the genre into a full three dimensional environment.
  
  The graphics are still pretty impressive. OK, the enemies and characters are nothing like what 
 is seen on games today, but they still look realistic enough. Of course water and lava has come 
 on leaps and bounds since 1996, but this one of the first games that also went below the surface 
 with its action. The environments are imaginative and well designed - giving Quake a groundbreaking 
 atmosphere at the time. They also still look good today - if you don't look too close. Plenty of 
 gore, if that's your thing, but I can take it or leave it.
  
  As if the storyline and atmosphere didn't give the game enough of a sense of dread, ID roped in 
 Trent Reznor to do the sound effects. He did mighty fine job. Each weapon had a distinct and unique 
 sound (with the grenade being a favorite) , the enemies sounded like enemies who wanted a piece 
 of you and the environmental sounds are moody and effective. 
  
  The gameplay is still a blast. Classic run and gun with a lot of different enemies possessing their 
 own strengths and weaknesses, plenty of puzzles to solve and plenty of maps to explore and study. 
 The game runs very smoothly and some of the skirmishes are seriously intense. Don't get too close 
 to the chainsaw wielding, grenade chucking ogre. There is only one way to dispose of the zombies 
 or they'll keep getting up. Shamblers, fiends, death knights, vores and Snub-Nigurath herself. 
 A lot of variety and on the hardest level, a lot of quality to how they go about their business. 
 They really can catch you by surprise.
  
  The gameplay is level based and there are health packs, weapons, and special powers to be gathered 
 along the way. At times you will need to solve puzzles to gain access to another area of the level 
 and these can be quite a challenge. Also, expect an enemy onslaught once you have! At the end of 
 each level you get to know how many kills and secrets you found, or how many you missed if you 
 want to go back to the game again.
  
  This was also the first game that used a full three-dimensional environment. At the time, this 
 meant complex controls and enemies could attack from a number of angles or from elevated positions. 
 Quake provided a new approach to combat that meant you actually had to aim on both the X and Y 
 axis rather than just point and shoot. It also brought an element of timing to attack that may 
 not have been there before.
  
  The story is a bit light and the text and the end of each dimension is not novella material. The 
 ending is also anti-climatic, but I'd suggest the story was a secondary consideration. Action and 
 mayhem in a dark and evil environment was the primary consideration and ID got it right.
  
  I paid AUD$10 for Quake back in 1998 - at a time when budget PC games were a rarity. The big box 
 sits proudly, though slightly tattered, in my collection. I'd recommend paying $AUD10 for Quake 
 today ahead of a number of titles now available at that price. 
  
  Normally with the 'Memory Lane' reviews I would play the game for a couple of hours or so just 
 to get the feel for it again after all these years. Not so with Quake. I played the whole game 
 again at the default level and had an absolute blast. It took about ten hours and that including 
 hunting all enemies down and looking for all secrets (I didn't find them all, though) . There is 
 also multiplayer (which I haven't played and I am not sure how active it is now) and three skills 
 levels to test your ability.
  
  While Quake may not compete against the visceral thrill of contemporary games, it still is an excellent 
 piece of entertainment. The fact that it still looks and feels good ten years on is testament to 
 the gameplay and atmosphere that it creates. Better than Quake 2 and better than a whole heap of 
 others. 
  
  For the 3D First Person Shooter, this is where it all began.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mavediss
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 7, 2006 6:18 am PT
Review:  Quake is one of the best first person shooters ever made simple due to its gameplay. For those 
 ones who played Doom and Doom II and became a fan like me this game is a must. It is quite impossible 
 not to compare and even feel like playing the previous games from id Software but that is not a 
 problem. On the contrary, once you find a good style or a formula of entertainment, you should 
 better stick with it. That was probably what producers thought and they did it well. The graphics 
 are better and also the sounds. You will find yourself involved in a new experience, new ways to 
 deal with enemies, maps and also interesting weapons. It is not completely new but it is very, 
 very much worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: STArmadillo
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 7, 2006 6:15 pm PT
Review:  First Doom, then Quake. Doom started the whole id first person shooter fascination a hardcore group 
 of players shared, and Quake took that already massive obsession, and built on it. It brought a 
 3D world into the FPS mix, involving more layers to the maps, including more secrets and more established 
 maps, as well as a highly popular online mode.
  
  Unfortunately, a large portion of gamers didn't care much for Quake and its achievements, and were 
 quick to develop respect instead for Half Life/Counterstrike.
  
  Quake is still a solid game today, although outdated in presentation and graphics (which were pretty 
 good for its time, to be quite honest) . 
  
  It's premise involves sending you, a marine, into a psuedo-hell dimension, overruled by horrific 
 monsters and ultimately, Shub-Niggurath. The levels play out in separate areas, divided into 4 
 episodes based on the specific segment of the dimension you're visiting. 
  
  There is quite a lot to the game. There are 8 weapons, each with its own specific abilities and 
 usefulness, dozens of enemies to stop you and very fun deathmatch and cooperative modes. Also, 
 the game is a very popular game to speedrun, thanks to the games' flawed physics that allow rocket 
 jumps and bunny hops to be exploited like crazy.
  
  Also, the game's soundtrack stands up incredibly well today, thanks to Trent Reznor, of Nine Inch 
 Nails, who creates a unique collection of effects and atmospheric noise that helps make the game 
 so creepy.
  
  Nowadays, it's much easier to play a more modern shooter, like Half Life 2 or Halo, but that doesn't 
 exactly justify poor quality in Quake. In fact, it assures it, since a lot of FPS games these days 
 are descendants of the ideas and design of the genre, pioneered by the once popular Quake. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jmm0070
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 15, 2006 10:32 am PT
Review:  The first Quake: great. This game involves action and adventure at the same time. The game is packed 
 with a great and long single-player, sometimes you get frigthened by some sudden shouts. Multi-player 
 is also great. not better that quake III arena's multi obviously because quake III is totally based 
 in multi-player, its single player recreates a multi-player also; but better that quake 2's and 
 quake 4's. the game has very good graphics to be so old, and the free look option makes the gameplay 
 great. monsters are various and greatly made. They have different movements. The variety of weapons 
 is amazing, no so amazing as the quake 2' variety of weaps. but amazing anyway. Instant classic, 
 great for all quake lovers and first-person-shooter lovers also. Anyone who doesn't like to get 
 frigthened or see blood don't play this game, otherwise, PLAY IT!!! NOW!
  
  thanks for reading. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: woef
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 6, 2006 4:56 am PT
Review:  One of my favorite games in the old ages!!!
  Quake of course.......
  
  Quake 1 is a amazing game, with a lot of features and variety in the games.
  
  Gameplay:
 
  Gameplay is absolutely stunning, you will always come across hordes of enemies at the same time, 
 which is good.
  Enemies arent that easy, so that increases gameplay too.
  Lots of levels, not enough bosses though. (only 2)
  
  Sounds:
  Sounds are good, nothing to 
 tell about the sounds.
  
  Graphics:
  The olfd fashion quake graphics are good and look amazing.
  Havent seen lots of games with the 
 same graphics.
  
  Value:
  Very good value, because of the amount of levels, weapons and enemies.
  
  Online:
  Dont have 
 a clue if there is online gameplay......
  
  Variety:
  Very good. (look at the value) .
  
  Well thats my review for quake 1.
  Its a good game!!! or should i say "god" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nss_120
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 7, 2006 9:22 am PT
Review:  This game was the "path" to 3d evolution, I really admire Id's full perseverance when it comes 
 in graphical development, the game itself has proved to the gamers of the past generation in entertainment 
 and putted (not all) an end to the boring 2d games. many mods were made for this game and it still 
 keeps to live as GLQuake, many of my friends still have this game, man, I still remember when I 
 use "Thread" on making some deathmatch maps, too bad my HD containing my maps crashed : ( . Anyways, 
 I am so happy that I can modify the game files safely and put my name at the start of the console. 
 Man, this game sure is a treasure. If it wasn't from the graphics of Quake, the evolution would 
 be slow 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iamjustin
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 30, 2006 3:05 pm PT
Review:  we've all heard of Quake sometime or another in our gaming lives. We've all played Doom. We've 
 all heard about how id software is a revolutionary company. And we've all heard how this game broke 
 boundaries for the world of gaming. We've heard these sorts of raves from all sorts of people who 
 love to play games and we've heard them so many times it's hard to know what's good and what's 
 not. Well this time..... it's all true. 
  
  When Quake was first released it shocked everyone with its 3D environments and fast and fluid gameplay. 
 And for good reason, it's one of the smoothest games i have ever played. It even has a resolution 
 that goes up to 1280 x 1048 which is nuts considering the age of this title. The graphics have 
 a nice range of adjustment and work with just about every age of PC that there is. And they look 
 pretty good for an older game. If you have a PC that was relased within the last two years with 
 a pentium III or above, crank the resolution up to 1040 x 768 and enjoy the game with some close 
 to PS2 (older PS2 mind you) visuals. even if you can't take full advantage of the graphics, the 
 gameplay is so fast and smooth you won't have anytime to notice. The only thing this game lacks 
 is a clear storyline, but, as i said a second ago, you won't care at all. 
  
  While the gameplay and graphics deliever to most people needs, the sound doesn't quite measure 
 up as much. There is no dialogue or voice acting (thank God) in the game but thew grwols of the 
 mosters and the gunshots are a little repetitive. They're not bad mind you, but they aren't anything 
 talk about. 
  
  But the best part of the game is the difficulty settings. There's Easy (which my grandma tried) , 
 Medium (which is easy) , Hard (moderately so) , Nightmare (which is hard) , and Crypt of the Undead 
 (which is EXTREMELY hard) . I stumbled upon the crypt mode by accident but i'm keeping the secret 
 to myself (hehehe, you get a hold of it if you try hard enough) . Depending on the difficulty you 
 choose, the game's allure comes alive. If you're brave enough to choose a hard setting, you won't 
 be let down. The situations you must escape become harder and harder as you go. You become addicted 
 to seeing waht impossible situation id will throw at you next. It's a lot of fun.
  
  In the end, you must buy this game. It's smooth, it's fast, and it's fun. i don't care if you hate 
 any game that was released before Halo or even n64. You still have to buy this game. you won't 
 be sorry. i guarantee it. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeadParrot145
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 27, 2006 2:51 pm PT
Review:  Its 1996, the N64 has just launched, Doom II is out, but probably most important game to that year 
 was The FPS titled Quake. Made from the master mids of Id software, Quake was one of the first 
 games to use a 3d engine, and an easier acess online play. 
  First, with the single player. Quake still delivers a tense, fast paced action, which simplisticly 
 is to get from point A to point B. As with Doom, you must aquire key cards to open doors to get 
 to the exit. And to make the action complete, monsters are conveniently located right around the 
 corner, or maybe they'll just spawn in your face. Eight weapons at your expense make killing thy 
 enemy oh so much more fun, maybe you want to drive a nail into their face, or zap them to death. 
 Quake is complete in just about every way in the single player.
  What Quake really delivers well is one of the first online bloodbaths (Doom probably being the 
 first) . Quake provides intense fast paced action with all the powerups, levels, and weapons found 
 in the single player. Its just brilliant, stick a bunch of people in a room to kill each other. 
 Or you can have a massive Co-Op game. 
  Quake also delivered a massive Graphical Proformance as well, by all means not impressive now. 
 It was one of the first full 3d games, ambient lighting, and several other visual effect that make 
 the game impressive.
  Wondering why the Quake franchise is so well known, it all started with this game, that spawned 
 3 sucessful sequels, as well as helping to pioneer the Genre of FPS. Quake is one of the legendary 
 FPS games, with Doom, Duke Nukem 3d, and several others. By all means one of the most important 
 games to come into existance. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MoreCowbell6924
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 12, 2006 6:58 am PT
Review:  Quake seemed to be just a Doom clone with better graphics back in the day. Singleplayer wise it 
 was, but with the added online multiplayer component made Quake easily one of the all time greats.
 
  
  Quake's graphics were revolutionary at the time. It was one of the first, if not the first game 
 to use a full 3-D environment. It had state of the art lighting and effects which made this game 
 one of the most graphiclly advanced games for it's time. The framerate usually remained steady 
 and everything looked good, but even with the 3-D environments and state of the art lighting the 
 graphics didn't really take a giant leap over other games with awesome graphics in it's time period. 
 The sounds of Quake were done pretty well overall. All the guns sounded really good at the time 
 and still sound pretty decent now days. The screams and grunts of enemies was done pretty well, 
 though it could of been done better. The rockin' music in the background was pretty cool, presumably 
 being Nine Inch Nails. It fitted the game very well. Everything in the sound department was well 
 implemented into Quake and fit it very well and sounded great for its time.
  
  There was a lot of value to be found in Quake as it was one of the first games to have an online 
 multiplayer component that boasted one to sixteen players. The singleplayer didn't last too long, 
 but this game definitely made up for the singleplayer with its online deathmatch game mode. Quake's 
 online as one of the first that used the full internet not just a local network didn't get old. 
 It was fun every time you played it unless you lossed even then it could be fun. Quake is still 
 rather exspensive these days as on id software's website its still thirty bucks, but it still is 
 on occasion enjoyable to play if you can ignore the outdated graphics.
  
  The gameplay of Quake was very similar to Doom's gameplay and seemed to be a clone of it to many 
 people. The gameplay was pretty much the same as in the singleplayer where you had to progress 
 through each level shooting anything hostile. You also had to collect keys and other items to progress 
 further into levels. The singleplayer was in the end a bit of a disappointment to many as it seemed 
 to be too similar to Doom's singleplayer. That all said Quake was still had an enjoyable singleplayer 
 campaign especially for people who didn't experience the Doom games before it. The multiplayer 
 deathmatch part of Quake is where this game set itself apart from Doom and every other first person 
 shooter before it. Quake supported up to sixteen players in one match as it was the first game 
 to utilize the whole internet rather than local networks that you could only get three or four 
 people in a match at once. Quake boasted a multiplayer like none other and was one of the most 
 fun gaming experiences of my life. Running around with all the interesting weapons blasting other 
 people was really enjoyable, and for the first time you weren't against computer AI you were playing 
 against other people just like you. Knowing that made it that much more enjoyable. All of the weapons 
 that you could run around and pick up were awesome especially the nail gun and rocket launcher. 
 Those were my favorite guns in the game and probably my favorite in any game since. Quake's singleplayer 
 had people wondering what the hell went wrong with it, but when they got around to the deatmatch 
 online against people across the globe is when they realized that Quake was no disappointment.
 
  
  Quake combined a good enough singleplayer with an unrivaled multiplayer to become in my opinion 
 the greatest game of all time. Quake revolutionized the way games look being the first game to 
 make everything in full 3-D. Quake also revolutionized the gaming industry by adding multiplayer 
 over the internet. Other games have expanded on it since such as World of Warcraft, Halo 2, or 
 Half-Life, but as the first game to have the online multiplayer over the internet makes it greater 
 than any of them, not necessarily better though. Quake in my mind is the greatest game of all time, 
 but I haven't played all the games out there, so I'm going to stick with the greatest game I've 
 ever played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: whiskertugger10
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 4, 2006 11:10 am PT
Review:  Quake is a very odd game in some ways, but still very enjoyable to a large audience. The gameplay 
 is spectacular, and you can easily pick up this game in the near instant you first play it... as 
 if you already haven't played it. Even though this game is ten years old, it's STILL a blast to 
 play, which is why, Quake fro mid Software, is a classic.
  
  Gameplay
  
  The gameplay, like I said, is very easy to pick up. You move, shoot, look around, and jump. Oh, 
 and you go swimming sometimes. The controls are very simplified, so when you're a noobie the first 
 time you play this, you will be mastering the controls at the end of your play. 
  
  You'll be in the heat of action and at the edge of your seat as you dodge out of the way of rockets, 
 and sludge balls, and more. You'll have so much fun, and be in so much action, that the time will 
 pass you by so quickly, you won't even have time to look at the clock. This game is perfect for 
 when your friends are gone, you're alone at home, and you're just waiting for the day to end.
 
  
  Graphics
  
  What I have found so amazing about Quake, is that DOOM II was just released the previous year (1995) . 
 Just one year later we get a game looking like Quake. Wow. 'John Carmack magic' at it's finest.
 
  
  You will even now be amazed that a 1996 game like this ever got close too looking how quake does. 
 
  
  You could tell that id Software really pused sprites out of the spotlight and brought raw 3d, fully 
 animated, textured monsters and well... everything into the game! The graphics are insanely good. 
 
  
  If you disagree, remember...1996... yeah. Wow.
  
  Sound
  
  The sound in Quake was a revolution for the time, and its still quite good now. 
  
  You will 
 hear monsters from afar coming at you, it really gets your nerves up as you frantically start looking 
 around for some movement to fire at.
  
  The guns and blast of carnage will keep you all hyped up. While there is no music in this game. 
 It might have been for the greater good. You will have so much noise about you, that you won't 
 need music.
  
  The sound in Quake is stunning. Just like every aspect of this game.
  
  Overall Quake is great in every aspect and makes a truly near-flawless game. There is also multiplayer 
 action that is so amazingly fun, that you wont want to stop. If you don't already have Quake, it 
 would be a recommendment for you to get it A. S. A. P. and see what you've been missing out on in 
 the last decade. 
  
  Quake rules. Period. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Advocate
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 8, 2006 3:06 pm PT
Review:  Quake set a new standard for game play. It brought FPS to a new level and set the bar very high 
 for any game that followed. When you think back on this game, you cannot help but smile, and smile 
 widely. This game was one of the best investments of my 1996 computer gaming budge. It provided 
 me with hours of enjoyment and once my friends and I got the multiplayer to work, the gloves game 
 off. Quake was a revolution in the making and ID Software earned its name. Hats off to the Forbidden 
 Planet and the ID that lives in us all. Quake is a guilty pleasure that every one should at some 
 point enjoy. The graphics were very good for the time and sound was superb. The value was great 
 and the two expansion packs added even more bang for the buck. Over all the game just worked and 
 worked very well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NeoJedi
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 6, 2006 1:12 pm PT
Review:  Back in 1996, after the whole "Doom craze" had come and gone, a lot of generic shooters followed 
 in it's footsteps, trying to imitate it but never quite succeeding at it. Then, just as summer 
 began, an incredible game made it's way into countless households around the world and amazed us 
 with it's brilliant graphics, outstanding sound and awesome gameplay: Quake. But what I remember 
 the most about this innovative game is the multiplayer, which introduced me to the wonderful world 
 of Deathmatch... and what a world it was!
  
  First off, the single player experience of Quake wasn't too shabby either. The best way to describe 
 this experience is with one word: gorefest. The amount of blood and gore in this game is unparalleled. 
 The incredible amount of monsters is outrageous, as they come at you from everywhere and look absolutely 
 horrific. The level design is quite disturbing and looks like your worse nightmare come to life.
 
  
  The sound in the game was great. The monsters' "howls" were quite frightening. The sound of your 
 guns firing was incredibly satisfying and gave them a sense of true power. The soundtrack was something 
 special, mainly because it was composed by Nine Inch Nails front-man Trent Reznor, giving the game 
 the atmosphere and ambiance it needed.
  
  I already spoke briefly on the weapons in this game, but I'd like to talk about one of those weapons 
 that stood the test of time as being one of the most satisfying ones to fire: the rocket launcher. 
 Anybody who's played Quake will agree that this is the most incredible weapon ever introduced in 
 a shooter. The sheer excitement of firing this weapon and watch it's rockets dismantle the monster 
 or other player (in deathmatch) was heavenly bliss.
  
  Speaking of Deathmatch, with a capital "D", this was the main attraction for this game, namely 
 because it hadn't been done like this before, with such violence and gorish satisfaction and smooth 
 gameplay. I remember playing this mode for hours on end, trying to pick up all the power-ups, from 
 the Circle of Protection, which gives you 666 hit points, to the Ring of Shadows, which makes you 
 invisible (except for the two glowing eyeballs others can spot floating in space) and Quake Power, 
 which was pretty much like Quad-Damage, meaning that your weapons would be much stronger. Oh, and 
 what about mastering Rocket-Jumping? Once you got that down pat, you had a pretty impressive skill 
 to use. Of course, it took some time to get the hang of it, and you had to be pretty patient, but 
 it was worth it in the end. Another side note about Quake's Deathmatch: it was the first one to 
 introduce in-game chatting.
  
  A lot of other shooters have come and gone since Quake (including 3 other Quake games) , but none 
 of them can top the sheer adrenaline rush you got from playing this masterpiece when it first came 
 out. That is why it is remembered as being one of the best games of all time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChristianKiss
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 4, 2009 6:27 pm PT
Review:  Writing a review about the first Quake title in 2006 looks weird, but in truth it's perfectly plausible 
 considering the amount of uninspired games released today. This game was the first one to feature 
 a fully 3D engine, using models for the objects instead of 2D sprites (like in Duke Nukem and Doom) . 
 Quake was programmed in C back in 1996, a powerful programming language that proved to be the best 
 ally to many developers. The engine, today known as Id Tech 1, was used in many great games such 
 as Half-Life and HeXen II.
  
  Enough of this tech b*****it... let's talk about the game itself. The graphics are OK, although 
 you'll feel that everything lacks detail, especially if you compare them with 2.5D games like Duke 
 Nukem 3D or Doom. The sound is great, and if you have no problems with constant CD-ROM access, 
 you'll find that the soundtrack is amazingly creepy and it's perfect to bring a unique atmosphere.
 
  
  The gameplay is the feature in focus, simply the best until Quake II's release. The game also offers 
 a good replayability, allowing you to play highest levels of difficult (be aware that there're 
 two secret ones) . However, the greatest thing in Quake the multiplayer, which brings amazing on-line 
 matches without any serious lags, especially when using a broadband connection.
  
  The maps in Quake are well done, complex and with a lot of secret passages. The monsters are not 
 the same as the ones in Quake II. You will face zombies, ghosts and some other creeps of undead 
 nature. The weapons are rather simple, like the shotgun and the grenade launcher, but expect some 
 bizarre stuff such as the nail gun and a bloody axe for melee encounters. 
  
  If you didn't try this game yet, don't waste your time and get yourself a copy. If you can stand 
 the outdated graphics, you'll find plenty of chaotic action in Quake. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GizmoSimo
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 10, 2006 10:35 pm PT
Review:  The best video game ever made (considering pc-games AND consoles) , Quake generated a cult-community 
 with its own idiom and special rules of engagement. Five years after first release, Q1 still lives 
 ferociously and heretic and the thrill of it all is that you can play it on any obsolete pentium 
 system (75 Mhz, 4MB video-card and 60 MB hd-space ran fine for me) . And besides that, the Linux-servers 
 where the best of all! There are about 40 levels in the game (incl. multiplayer and secret levels) : 
 Quake consists of 4 episodes (like Star Wars and Alien so far) , but there are still herds of people 
 who haven't seen the game once (let alone 3dfx accelerated OpenGL Quake) .
  
  'Cheapo' and other downloadable 'cheating' local proxies make it harder for newbies to understand 
 why they were being fragged and to like the flagellating game at all. On top of that, hardcore 
 players construct their own configuration files with pre-written actionscripts (rocketjumping etc.) 
 to climb faster in the ranking, although anybody can check out the console tutorials for miscellaneous 
 commands and scripts. There is no taunting (as in Duke Nukem 3D and Unreal) in Quake, except for 
 the few lines of text on top of the screen where you can spout your indecent proposals and pre-fab 
 messages. Newbies who don't understand the game or have a slow connection (HPW: high ping whiners) 
 are allowed (by consensus) to 'camp' (wait in a corner and shoot unsuspecting passers) to at least 
 prevent a negative end-score (after unintentional suicide etc.) . But the lucky few with pings of 
 below 20 ms become the real 3D acrobats (LPB: low ping ba**ards) . I'm really not interested in 
 professional gamers, but I would have liked to get some dough for all the time I have spent in 
 those dungeons, arenas, grottos, vaults and oubliettes.
  
  Q1 is less humourous than Duke3D, in fact: no humour at all. Also less empty and post-apocalyptic, 
 but more macarbe and dismal. I do not only love quake for the looks of it, but especially for the 
 mechanics. That was never topped by Q2 and Q3Arena. Q3A looks infinitely better, but as Q2 it lacks 
 the aggressive and direct gameplay of Q1. Duke Nukem was already addictive, but has flat pictures 
 moving around without changing perspective, in contrast with Q1's 3D entities in a convincing medieval 
 setting or more uplifting futuristic surroundings. This engine proved to be revolutionary although 
 most game-developers were interested to use the Q2 engine (Half-Life, etc.) . id software proved 
 itself as the most innovative developer of eye candy and gameplay itself. Funstuff like incorporating 
 your own sounds into the game has become a lot harder with Q3A unfortunately. And there aren't 
 as many hiding places, secret passages and exploitable level bugs anymore. Let's hope those will 
 be back with Quake4 (resurrection?) .
  
  Quake Done Quick is a downloadable (5 MB) speed demo of 90 minutes recorded by several people running 
 through Q1 as fast as humanly possible, for which you also need the full game installed first. 
 You can sit back and relax and watch the protagonist killing everything and opening every secret 
 in first-person view or movie mode. There are people who did a lot of effort choosing the right 
 camera-dynamics and even incorporate some jokes in the 'plot'. Besides that, there is the Q3A movie 
 'Quad God' that unfortunately never really saw the daylight because of copyright issues (?) . These 
 entities will be locked up in there forever.
  
  Other enthusiasts built their own maps with their own favourite interiors and entities (mods and 
 total conversions like Capture The Flag, Weapons Factory, Malice, Rocket Arena, Team Fortress, 
 Airquake, Future vs. Fantasy, Awesome, Carnage etc for which you'll still need the original game 
 to function) . Finally, Unreal and UT are also some of my favourites as they are better than Q2 
 and Q3A, but the deathmatch multiplay mode of Quake1 is still unsurpassed. HF! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 00chaos8
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 7, 2006 8:58 pm PT
Review:  This game is the very first great 3d shooter that has ever conceive. True that the story is nothing. 
 All matters is that this game revolutionize shooters, plus it was a very fun game. I love quake 
 and the quake series have nevered disappointed me at all.
  
  The most important distinction between Quake and the drove of first-person action games currently 
 available is that it's set in a true 3-D world (GS saying) . Quake was just phenominal and was very 
 promising when it first came out. It was all what cracked up to be. Back then, id software was 
 one of the greatest shooter companies I known and they are still producing great games still. Quake 
 will always be in my treasured games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SolarisDeschain
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 10, 2006 8:32 pm PT
Review:  Today I review Quake, one of the most influential games of all time, and one of the most groundbreaking.
 
  
  Well start with the story and gameplay aspects of the game. The story to Quake is its weak-point, 
 pitting a lone soldier against unbeatable odds. Only this time, instead of demons that spilled 
 out of Hell, Quake ultimately pits you against Shub-Niggurauth (sp?) , a key figure in H. P. Lovecrafts 
 Cthulhu mythos. Now, the gameplay in Quake is most definitely not the weak point. You really feel 
 like youre a lone soldier, doing your grim task AND fighting for your life in an atmospheric, 
 surreal, almost industrial world with oodles of basic jumping puzzles. The creatures are hell bent 
 and hard to kill, and the combat is an adrenaline rush that never lets up until the last creature 
 is put down. Having put all that out of the way, Ill actually proceed to HOW the gameplay in Quake 
 works. Its actually quite simple. A coked-up Doom. Id didnt do much to screw with a winning formula 
 in Quake, but they didnt need to. As noted before, its a winning formula, so they just packed 
 the single-player with enough high-octane killing and atmosphere to keep you completely hooked. 
 Now on to the Multi-player. The Multi-Player aspect of Quake is what set this game apart from all 
 the rest and raised it to the level of Doom and Wolfenstein 3-D. In what is now the rule, you can 
 join up with other people over an internet connection and proceed to take the wonderful gameplay 
 and your own mad skillz to other players. Back then the limit was 16, but that doesnt limit much, 
 16 people still creates a hectic battle and plenty of opportunities for frags. In final, the gameplay 
 in Quake is easily worthy of its being a classic title, and stands as a pinnacle of fun to be had 
 in First Person gaming.
  
  Now for the graphics. Of course, by todays standards these graphics arent quite up to par, but 
 this game wasnt made today. It was made in 1996, and for that time, they were the ones who were 
 most high (THERE is an obscure song reference) . The creatures at the time were awe-inspiring and 
 truly frightening, and there are STILL frights to be had when one of those crazed, bloody, lightningthings 
 pop out at you, sending you into a hail of gunfire, hoping you dont find yourself staring at the 
 ceiling in death. The decadent halls of the Ancients are also a huge component to the atmosphere 
 Id is famous for, and everything is 3-D, looking realistic at every angle. Overall the aesthetics 
 look very nice for their time, and would definitely NOT have been putting anyone away.
  
  The sound is another great part of Quake. All the sounds and music were done by Trent Reznor (Nine 
 Inch Nails) , and its clear that he was going for all out atmosphere instead of, I dont know, 
 metal or some stuff that wouldnt have fit in. The sounds ring with a definite industrial and enveloping 
 tone, and add feelings of tension with every dark-synth pang. Their arent much in the way of actual 
 songs in Quake, but there isnt much of a place for them. The story is more or less on a need-to-know 
 basis, and if you need to know what happens in the past, check the manual, because Quake is all 
 about the NOW. Quake tells you the beginning of this nameless soldiers quest to the end, no interaction, 
 no prologue or epilogue, nothing but loneliness and atmosphere that is right up there with Metroid 
 Prime. But regardless of the lack of Reznors musical vision, there really is no fault with his 
 sounds and this proves to be the strongest point of the game.
  
  Actually I lied. THIS is the strongest point of the game. The multiplayer, as I said before, everything 
 about it was completely new, and set the bar for 98% of PC First-Person Shooters to this day. Even 
 after youre done with the Single-Player campaign, itll be a long time before you put this one 
 away for any extended amount of time.
  
  All in all, Quake is all its been said to be. It has great gameplay, great sound, great atmosphere, 
 and great multiplayer. It is the genesis of a series that only continues to amaze, and the gaming 
 world is better off WITH this one.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Doom1327
Rating: 7.2
Date: Dec 28, 2005 8:38 pm PT
Review:  Part of the issue is that Quake's storyline and narrative technique are ineffectual. Since the 
 main character has no identity whatsoever (for whatever reason) , the game tries to get you interested 
 in everyone else on the base. You'll frequently find voice recordings and e-mail from various characters, 
 but not only is a lot of this stuff bone dry, having to stop and read or stand around and listen 
 to a rambling monologue jarringly disrupts the flow of the action. Unfortunately, if you choose 
 to focus on the action by ignoring the seemingly extraneous story elements, you'll find that some 
 of them aren't optional -- you'll need to sift through those e-mails and listen to some of those 
 voice recordings to get passcodes for locked doors and storage chests.
  
  For what it's worth, the game's premise seems very fleshed out, and the game gives an amazing first 
 impression. As you explore the UAC base, eavesdropping on various conversations and observing great, 
 little details here and there, you'll get the impression that Quake takes place in a fully realized 
 world. Of course, all hell quickly breaks loose, and from that point onward you'll encounter scarce 
 few creatures that you won't want to instantly shoot. The premise of the game will continue to 
 unfold through occasional cutscenes and the aforementioned e-mails and recordings. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zux2000
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 27, 2005 3:32 am PT
Review:  Someday I must make a review about this great game... When Quake was born, -for the first time, 
 the multiplayer became totally important! 
  It also had the best graphic a game could have...
  And many, many years after it still had the 
 best graphic a game could have. 
  
  Quake is simply perfect! I have played it so many hours in my life, in so many years (maybe 5-6 
 years after it was released I played it allover again) 
  
  The singleplayer mode was really funny, but when it comes to multiplayer is still one of the best 
 shoot m ups games ever made. I have so much funny memories of this game. I was a real hardcore 
 gamer who played almost every day over the internet in years, and somethimes even in LAN. 
  
  Quake was the game who really started the deathmatch ERA, and was the push on all FPS games 
 we have now. If Quake never came, we probably would never seen games like Doom 3, Half-Life, Castle 
 of Wolfenstein, Farcry, CoD. Halo etc. Id Software has always been a step before everybody elses. 
 Id's graphics engines has always been step better than other FPS games...
  
  This game is one of the best game I have played in my whole life. I also love Quake 2 and Quake 
 III Arena and give all those three games 10/10! Those three games is the best shoot m ups ever 
 made, -when it comes to multiplayer. (Quake IV was a really disappointment, Id should never gave 
 this game away to Raven's hands, but that's another story...)
  
  Quake is still fun to play, it's simply perfect, all the DM maps is great, the weapons is totally 
 great, and totally wellbalanced. This game is a classic! Quake will never be forget! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MasterVilleVGL
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 21, 2005 3:48 pm PT
Review:  This game has n't the mos attractive graphics in the world, BUT IS ONE OF THE GREATEST FPS EVER
 
  It is really good because it was the first completely 3-D game, i mean y can jump, swim, look. You 
 may think Hexen was the first C 3-D game, but you can n't swim.
  Also, for the technology available when it was made it has cool graphics.
  You should really buy 
 it (and also the following ones!)
  It feels pretty cool to know you have The-First-One-Ever-Fully-3D game ID soft created.
  And 
 have in mind: if it was n't for quake, halo, doom 3 or any other great FPS would not be that great 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IMPACT_17
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 6, 2005 5:12 pm PT
Review:  Its a true classic, ID didnt just make it in 5 sec. The graphics arent very good, though best in 
 its time. Like the boom-stick:) . The monsters are good. Quake isnt that violent like most games, 
 its just scary. I recomend ages 14 and up. Anyway, its a big jump from Doom. I liked the funny 
 sounds. The sounds were almost perfect, but it was kind of stuffed. The multi-player is good. The 
 hallway were you get to choose easy, medium, or hard was a good idea. The gameplay is awsome, i 
 like it. THIS REVIEW IS GONNA TAKE A DAMN LONG TIME!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dinamika
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 3, 2005 7:54 am PT
Review:  Single handedly made the Doom series obsolete, no small task... 
  When a game like Doom came out it made the shooter fan take notice. When Quake was introduced a 
 few years later it made industry take notice. This game was and still is quite incredible. From 
 the frantic pace, to the intense gore, down to the eerie ambient groans of the decrepid castles, 
 Quake has all the elements of a great shooter. Not only do you lose yourself in the atmosphere 
 of Ultra-violence, (I can remenber quite a few times when I legitamately felt terror-stricken at 
 the aspect of entering a lair of Ogres) , it created a new standard for future games. This game 
 was one of the first to incorporate swimming, ledge-jumping to access secret areas, interactive 
 environments, and the now classic Quad damage. Thats not even metioning the Fiend, still the most 
 frightening monster in a shooter. This game will stick with me for as long as I play FPS. Quake 
 changed everything, it introduced Deathmatch, three dimensional games and completely desensitized 
 a generation of kids to violence (for good or bad) . Lets just say I never felt the same way after 
 blowing to smithereens a ravenous Doberman Pinscher with a Rocket launcher 
::::::

::::::
UserName: o0pIumM
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 26, 2005 10:50 am PT
Review:  For its time, this game was the best of the best. Light years ahead of its predecessors in the 
 DOOM family. It sported true 3 dimensional mapping, scare your pants off single player, great physics 
 engine, excellent sound and music supplied by Mr. Trent Reznor, highly customizable controls, and 
 fast paced cut-throat multiplayer that turned me into the on-line gamer that I am today.
  
  The ability to create your own modifications was the factor that gave multiplayer its real kick. 
 Custom weapons like the grappling hook, great mods that gave future games their life blood such 
 as capture the flag, team fortress (class based team battle) .
  
  Although it has been shrouded by years of newer, faster, better games, Quake should a the staple 
 in any FPS player's resume. z 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yaxxxy
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 22, 2005 1:57 am PT
Review:  QUAKE I review by yaxXxy. GAME TYPE: First Person Shooter
  
  Your standing there, with three portals lined up in front of you.
  Above each portal, are the 
 words: EASY, MEDIUM and HARD.
  Me, being the person I am, thought:
  Oh well, hard of course
  I spent the rest of that night with my eye balls out of there sockets 
 staring intently at the computer monitor.
  This has got to be one of the most immersing games ever. You play each level playing as if your 
 life depends on it
  Anyone who likes blasting, nailing, electrocuting, exploding, your enemy to pieces will love this 
 game. Dont get the wrong idea, this game isnt just about blasting the opponent in front of you, 
 you have to think carefully about your next move. Also the level structure is amazing. There are 
 four dimensions and in each there are about 10-15 levels. Each level is very original, and the 
 atmosphere very much suites the game. They just dont make games like this anymore
  The graphics are a bit (I stress, just a bit) dated now, although they very much suite the game. 
 There very good considering the game was made in 96. You could compare this game to DOOM, but 
 this just beats it in every way. Right, now to the arsenal: Axe, Shotgun (Gun you start off with) , 
 Double barrelled shotgun, Nail gun (Hell yes!!!) , TRIPLE Barrelled Nail gun (!!!) , Grenade launcher, 
 Rocket launcher and last but not least, the Electricity gun. This stock of Beelzebubs own arsenal 
 can be used in many ways, for example, to bounce grenades around corners, or the electricity gun 
 (What ever you do, just dont fire it while your under water) . Also the monsters are brilliant 
 and range from Grunts to Ogres, to huge lightning throwing beastlings. Whats the whole point in 
 the game you ask? To survive. At the end of each dimension you collect a rune. Once you collect 
 all four runes you Ill leave that for you to discover 
  Overall, Quake is a BRILLIANT game. Anyone whose into FPS must have this game, although it maybe 
 hard to find, considering how old it is. Its well worth playing and will leave you on the edge, 
 or off, your seat. 
  
  Review by Anthony Collier, a. k. a. yaxXxy.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThannMan
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 20, 2005 6:35 pm PT
Review:  -Graphics for this are pretty good for being made back in in the day.
  -Game play is pretty creepy with sounds and monsters.
  -Pacing is not to fast and definitely 
 not slow.
  -Priced legally at $25 is a rip off, but special ED could DL it for free.
  -ID showed they're pride and glory in this revolutionary masterpiece.
  -35 or so levels 8 Weapons 
 and more monsters than you can handle tie it up.
  -I admit its hard to stay interested in with brand new games on the market but it looks damn good 
 when you are puting two dollars worth of gas in your car. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mr_pink666
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 15, 2005 2:31 am PT
Review:  When a game like Doom came out it made the shooter fan take notice. When Quake was introduced a 
 few years later it made industry take notice. This game was and still is quite incredible. From 
 the frantic pace, to the intense gore, down to the eerie ambient groans of the decrepid castles, 
 Quake has all the elements of a great shooter. Not only do you lose yourself in the atmosphere 
 of Ultra-violence, (I can remenber quite a few times when I legitamately felt terror-stricken at 
 the aspect of entering a lair of Ogres) , it created a new standard for future games. This game 
 was one of the first to incorporate swimming, ledge-jumping to access secret areas, interactive 
 environments, and the now classic Quad damage. Thats not even metioning the Fiend, still the most 
 frightening monster in a shooter. This game will stick with me for as long as I play FPS. Quake 
 changed everything, it introduced Deathmatch, three dimensional games and completely desensitized 
 a generation of kids to violence (for good or bad) . Lets just say I never felt the same way after 
 blowing to smithereens a ravenous Doberman Pinscher with a Rocket launcher. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikromouse
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 11, 2005 9:30 pm PT
Review:  Quake is one of the few games I didn't exactly latch onto late. It introduced me to the world of 
 First Person Shooters, and I have looked back since.
  
  The game itself is very straightforward. Kill everything. I recall there was a story, but its been 
 a few years since I've played Q1. The single-player campaign was fun and contained (at the time) 
 phenomenal graphics. With a new style of gameplay viewing known as parallax id was able to create 
 3d worlds with decent textures that ran at decent frame rates.
  
  The game also featured music from Industrial group Nine Inch Nails and its frontman Trent Reznor.
 
  
  However, what everyone remembers about Quake was its 16-player multiplayer. Playable over DOS IPX, 
 or networked TCP/IP Quake enabled us all to find out who was the best, who sucked, and who spawn-camped. 
 It gave us new words like frag, tele-fragging, campers, rocket-jumping and a host of other exploitable 
 tactics that are still used in FPS games today.
  
  These are guys that created something phenomenal that should be experienced at least once by everyone. 
 If you don't, you're cutting your experience short. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MordethDrakkhar
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 21, 2005 9:36 pm PT
Review:  id software defined the first-person shooter genre as we know it with the groundbreaking Wolfenstein 
 3D in 1991. A fer years later, it was followed by the explosive and controversial Doom in 1993, 
 which was followed in '94 and '95 by Doom II and The Final Doom. While the computer gaming world 
 was busy enjoying these excellent games, id went back to their dungeon to devise the next terrifying 
 game for the masses. In 1996, id released Quake. Quake completely blew away everything id had put 
 in place with its two predecessors, as it was the first fully 3D first-person shooter. The response 
 was incredible. id made millions while Quake continued to impress.
  
  GAMEPLAY: As you probably already know, Quake is a first-person shooter, or FPS. As I stated above, 
 it was the first fully 3D FPS, which allowed for complex levels with rooms on top of each other, 
 and actual polygonal figures instead of sprites. 
  
  Here's a quick synopsis of the story behind Quake: The government has perfected a new technology; 
 a means of transporting matter through what has been christened "Slipgates" into alternate dimensions. 
 Shortly after contact is made with these dimensions, monsters begin to pour out of the Slipgates, 
 killing all in their path. You are a marine commander, summoned to lead "Operation Counterstrike" 
 against the leader of the monstrous forces, codenamed Quake. While you are out commissioning weapons 
 and munitions away from the base, Quake launches his own Operation Counterstrike and kills everyone 
 in the military installation. It's now up to you and you alone to stop the forces of Quake and 
 save the Earth.
  
  The object of Quake is simple: Get to the end of each area, killing anything in your way. The world 
 of Quake is divided into episodes, only the first of which is playable in the shareware version. 
 Each episode takes place in a different realm, each one more furious than the next. You have eight 
 weapons at your disposal, ranging from your trusty axe, to the double-barrelled shotgun, to the 
 almighty Thunderbolt, each with its own strengths and weaknesses. 
  
  Each level contains multiple secret areas, adding another element of fun to the gameplay. each 
 secret area contains something beneficial to your quest. Also returning with Quake are secret levels, 
 to which the entrances are hidden in normal levels, one in each episode. Only the most savvy Quake 
 player will be able to find them all (let alone beat them) . 
  
  Quake also supports up to 16 players in a Multiplayer game, either cooperative or deathmatch, over 
 DOS IPX (which is now defunct) , or over the internet or a LAN through a TCP/IP setup. You can also 
 set up one machine to act as a dedicated server.
  
  Grade: 10/10
  
  GRAPHICS: The graphics in Quake are amazing (or, at least they were back in 1996) . Monsters look 
 beautiful (from a technical standpoint...  _ ) and there are little or no polygon lines or jaggies 
 present during play. Those of us with more graphically capable machines can take advantage of one 
 of the many plugins that use your graphics card to render the game, such as GLQuake. 
  
  Grade: 10/10
  
  SOUND: Quake's sound effects and soundtrack are definitely one of its high 
 points. Both the score and the effects were created by none other than Trent Reznor and his band 
 Nine Inch Nails (the boxes of nails in the game even bear the affectionate "NIN" logo) . The score 
 is incredibly creepy and adds a lot to the overall gloomy mood of the game. The effects are well 
 done too. Nothing is more bone-chilling that hearing th terrifying roar of a Shambler as you turn 
 a corner. 
  
  Grade: 10/10
  
  VALUE: On average, it will take one about 3-4 hours of gameplay to finish Quake. The original price 
 for Quake ($40) was a little steep, but now you can buy it for less from id's online store, or 
 find it dirt-cheap on eBay. The replayablility is excellent because I guarantee you'll miss at 
 least two secret levels and many, many secrets your first time through. For those who find the 
 game too easy, a hidden Nightmare difficulty has been hidden in the game, which is near impossible 
 to complete.
  
  Grade: 10/10
  
  REVIEWER'S TILT: I grew up with this game. Long hours spent playing this game alone at night are 
 some of my fondest memories. I still play it today almost every day, at home and some Deathmatch 
 at school. This games comes in on my personal list of the Greatest Games of All Time at lofty #2. 
 I highly recommend you pick it up.
  
  Grade: 10/10
  
  OVERALL: Excellent game. Kill monsters, go through creepy dimensions, save the Earth, etc. 'Nuff 
 said. 
  
  Final Grade: 10/10 (Perfect) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XmasterX01
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 15, 2004 5:54 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the best classic FPS games out there, next to Doom and Duke Nukem. The graphics 
 in this game are 3D (guns and enemies don't look like cut outs like they did in the Doom series) . 
 It's extreamly fun still. I still play it. There are a generous amount of levels and plenty of 
 baddies to kick butt to. The game still has the classic Shotgun, Super Shotgun, and Rocket Launcher, 
 but also includes unique guns like the Nail Gun, Super Nail Gun, the Lightning Gun, and the grenade 
 launcher. I think it has a network mode up to 16 players, but I never tried it out 'cause I don't 
 know anyone else that has Quake. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spartan711
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 17, 2004 5:18 pm PT
Review:  I started playing this game about 4 years ago and i still go back and play through it sometimes. 
 I can't help but have fun while playing it. It is one of those games that takes you awhile to beat 
 because it has over 40 levels. If you need something to keep you busy then buy this and sit down 
 at your computer to play it for a long time. This game has excellent graphics for it's generation. 
 Some parts are scary if your a wimp so if you are a wimp then i'd suggest not getting it. If you 
 don't mind scary then difinetly get it. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
