-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Quake III: Team Arena
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/quake3teamarena/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec 21, 2000
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.4
Critic Score: 7.4, 28 Review (s)
User Score: 8.1, 547 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Activision
Developer: id Software
Genre: Sci-Fi First-Person...
Date:     Dec 18, 2000
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Team Arena is an extremely focused expansion that may not add a great deal of obvious breadth to 
 multiplayer team games, but does add a good amount of depth. 

 Quake III: Team Arena is an expansion pack for id Software's superb first-person shooter Quake III: 
 Arena, which was released a year ago. At a glance, the expansion may seem like nothing more than 
 a trumped-up modification - an add-on that includes a few play modes and extras and little else. 
 However, Team Arena also has several new features that enhance the original game, including improved 
 graphics and sound, a new user interface, some new maps to fight in, new weapons and items, and 
 three new team-play modes. The new items and play modes are collectively the most significant additions 
 that the expansion makes to the original game, as they allow for a number of interesting and surprisingly 
 complex strategies in team games on Team Arena's polished, well-balanced maps. These strategies 
 tend to work best - and be the most enjoyable - when you're playing with teams of experienced and 
 organized players in an online multiplayer match.   

  Team Arena is powered by an improved version of the powerful Quake III graphics engine, and despite 
 that the engine itself was released last year, it looks excellent. As with Quake III: Arena, Team 
 Arena supports dynamic lighting, light-mapping effects, and curved architecture, though the new 
 maps in the expansion make more and better use of all of them. The expansion also includes three 
 expansive outdoor maps that make impressive use of real-time shadows and render great distances 
 without any traces of draw-in. But these graphical enhancements come at a price - you'll need a 
 16MB 3D accelerator card at the very least (as opposed to Quake III: Arena's minimum requirement 
 of 8MB) , and though you can still play the game with 64MB of system RAM, you'll need at least 128MB 
 to get the game to run at an acceptable frame rate. And even then, you may have to turn off a few 
 video options. In addition, since many of Team Arena's team maps are more graphically intensive 
 than the original game's, you may use only Team Arena's new team player models on them, since the 
 new models are specifically optimized for use with those maps. There are essentially two basic 
 models - a humanoid male and female - and each has a few different heads and five different skins, 
 but none is anywhere near as interesting or distinctive as Quake III: Arena's gargoyles, androids, 
 and aliens, which aren't available in any of Team Arena's team-play modes.   

  Team Arena doesn't sound quite as good as it looks. The game has most of the same hard-hitting 
 weapon sound effects as those in the original Quake III: Arena, and it features the enhanced sound 
 effects also included in the Quake III v1.27g point release, including a realistic-sounding Doppler 
 effect that is produced by rockets launched from a distance. Team Arena also has new music tracks, 
 though they resemble those of the original game - passable but largely forgettable techno/thrash 
 that you'll likely turn down (or turn off completely) so that you can better hear what's going 
 on around you. Team Arena also offers a new chat option: contextual voice taunts that you, other 
 players, and nonplayer bots can use in addition to Quake III: Arena's standard gesture taunt. Interestingly, 
 Team Arena's contextual taunts change according to the situation: If you successfully frag an opponent, 
 your voice taunt will be a smug insult, but if you've just been fragged, your voice taunt will 
 more likely be a confused "What the...?" Unfortunately, nearly all these voice taunts sound horrible. 
 Apparently, they were intended to emulate the brazen, foul-mouthed trash-talk of the characters 
 and bots in Epic's Unreal Tournament, though Team Arena's voice taunts actually sound more like 
 the result of a corporate focus group's attempt to emulate bored, mildly peeved teenagers. Fortunately, 
 you can turn off voice taunts, and if you play Team Arena for any appreciable length of time, you 
 probably will.   

  If you do play Team Arena for any length of time, you'll find there's more to it than good graphics 
 and bad voice acting. Unfortunately, if you're looking for head-to-head deathmatch or an improved 
 single-player game, you won't find much more. Team Arena includes a slightly enhanced bot-orders 
 system that lets you give general directions to computer-controlled bot players on your team - 
 but the bots' artificial intelligence is still rather unimpressive, and as with Quake III: Arena, 
 they won't put up much of a fight except on the highest difficulty settings. In terms of head-to-head 
 competition, Team Arena has four new one-on-one tourney maps (some of which were included in the 
 Sega Dreamcast console port of Quake III: Arena) that are, on the whole, fairly good as tourney 
 maps go. You can also access deathmatch and team deathmatch modes by using the game's "/g_gametype 
 #" console command, though the game's maps aren't really suited for free-for-all or team deathmatch 
 play and none of the game's new power-up items is available in either mode.    

 However, you'll be able to use all three of Team Arena's new weapons in any game mode: these are 
 the proximity mine launcher, the chaingun, and the nailgun. The proximity mine launcher is the 
 most interesting of the three; it launches small, beeping antipersonnel mines that can be affixed 
 to anything, including enemy players. The chaingun and the nailgun are both extremely damaging 
 weapons that can be made even more so with the game's power-up items.   

  Team Arena features four power-up items - the ammo regen, doubler, guard, and scout items - as 
 well as two new miscellaneous items, the kamikaze and invulnerability items. Each of the power-up 
 items grants its bearer special abilities that will remain with him until he's fragged, while the 
 kamikaze and invulnerability items are one-use items - the former kills its user in a huge explosion 
 that inflicts grievous damage to any bystanders, while the latter renders its user briefly invulnerable 
 but immobile. As you play, you'll find that different items lend themselves to different sorts 
 of strategies depending on your choice of weapons, the game type, and the map layout; for instance, 
 ammo regen lets railgun snipers fire continuously without having to leave their posts to search 
 for more ammo. You'll also find that the different items and weapons serve as counterbalances to 
 each other. An attacker who's protected by the powerful guard item may be felled by a rapid-firing 
 scout equipped with a damaging nailgun; in turn, this scout may be torn to shreds by a persistent 
 defender equipped with a chaingun and ammo regen.   

  You'll use all the game's new weapons and items in each of Team Arena's four team-play modes. Team 
 Arena offers a standard capture-the-flag mode, as well as three new game types: one-flag CTF, overload, 
 and harvester. There's only a single flag in one-flag CTF, as the name suggests, which must be 
 captured and brought to the enemy base - this game mode tends to be the most dynamic and least 
 strategic of the four, as both teams will follow the location of the flag all over the map. The 
 other two game modes, overload and harvester, put much more emphasis on teamwork and territory, 
 respectively. In the overload game mode, you must destroy your enemy's obelisk, a stationary object 
 that can withstand a great deal of damage; one player usually can't destroy an obelisk, so it's 
 imperative to coordinate joint assaults with teammates and to bring along some heavy artillery. 
 The harvester game mode requires even more organization; in it, you collect glowing skulls that 
 appear when your opponents are fragged from a central point on the map and then carry them to the 
 enemy base. As such, you'll need to make sure your team is organized enough to guard both the skull 
 generator and your own base while making enough kills to generate skulls. Regardless of what mode 
 you play, you'll find that you won't be able to win entire matches alone and that the more organized 
 team generally tends to win more often.   

  Team Arena includes a total of 19 maps; 11 of these are brand-new team maps, four are tourney maps, 
 and four are slightly reworked versions of the original Quake III: Arena's capture-the-flag maps. 
 These maps were created by different designers for different styles of play, and certain maps are 
 far better suited to certain game types than others. Unfortunately, Team Arena doesn't have many 
 maps to choose from in the first place; there are really only 15 all-new maps, and four of these 
 are tourney maps. This is somewhat disappointing, especially considering that the original Quake 
 III: Arena was released a year ago and that there have been literally hundreds of free user-made 
 Quake III maps made available for download on the Internet since then. Fortunately, the maps that 
 are included with the expansion are all extremely well designed and balanced.   

  Quake III: Team Arena may seem unimpressive at first, since it superficially resembles nothing 
 so much as a Quake III mod - and its bland character models, lousy voice acting, and its relatively 
 small number of brand-new maps may do little to improve such a first impression. Yet though its 
 new features may not seem remarkable individually, when put together they comprise a number of 
 interesting new strategies and also let experienced players organize team-based games based on 
 those strategies. Team Arena is an extremely focused expansion that may not add a great deal of 
 obvious breadth to multiplayer team games, but it does add a good amount of depth and will subsequently 
 make such game sessions that much more enjoyable to fans of Quake III's multiplayer component. 
    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (4 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: h498
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 2, 2007 6:02 am PT
Review:  We've all heard of it, quake 3 arena is a great death match experience. But the expansion pack 
 called team arena just isn't perfect.
  
  Graphics:
  Back in its day, quake 3 looked absolutely amazing. if you crank the settings to maximum (need 
 a good shader vertex to do this) it looks very good. The only issue i had with the graphics are 
 that the gibs (blown up bodies) have no physics, they always are the exact same size and shape 
 and in the same place. Fortunetly you just wont have time to be paying attention to the gibs when 
 the gameplay is so fast. Even by todays standards the graphics are well done, so the graphics get 
 a 9/10.
  
  Gameplay:
  Here comes the bulk of this review, and what makes and breaks team arena. Team arena comes packed 
 with new weapons, powerups, and maps. While this seems like the best thing for quake 3 arena, it 
 truly isnt. The god mode powerup is just way to crazy to be a good idea. if you have a god mode 
 powerup near you, you could just get it, and camp with a railgun without worrying about getting 
 killed. it completely destroys some parts of multiplayer and makes things feel really broken. However 
 the new powerups and weapons are not all bad, not at all. The proximity mine launcher is a great 
 addition to this game. allows mines to be placed ANYWHERE on a map, or other players. However if 
 a skilled railgun shooter comes across a guy with a proximity mine launcher, the guy with a mine 
 launcher will get ripped. The new weapons are balanced good additions to the game. As anyone who 
 has played quake 3 would know, the machine gun was really sucky. it did very little damage and 
 pro players would rather not even have it in their arsenal. The new minigun and nail gun are 3x 
 as powerful, but not effective at long range. These additions make medium ranged gameplay very 
 fun, and even more fierce. Some new power-ups make the gameplay even more fun by adding more gun 
 power and ammo regen. These powerups help the gameplay by making subtle additions that dont change 
 the entire mold of how the game is played. These changes are nice, but seem more like a simple 
 mod instead of an expansion. The fact that this game costs as much as it does and offers so little 
 makes the value plummet.
  7/10
  Sound:
  The sound in quake 3 team arena is nothing stellar. the new sound effects added to the weapons 
 and powerups seem old, and like youve heard them before. The voice acting is just atrocious, all 
 the dialouge in the game is cliched and nothing all too special. The weapon effects are slightly 
 redone, but just dont sound realistic what-so-ever. another problem that was also in quake 3 is 
 that every time you jump, the character makes a very annoying UGH noise. As you become good at 
 the game, bunnyhopping (jumping repedetively to go faster, also makes you harder to hit) is a requirement. 
 5/10
  
  Overall:
  Quake 3 team arena is nice if your looking for small additions to a great game, but dont expect 
 stunning new features. The sound and value of this expantion take a hard beating, but the gameplay 
 is still as fun as ever.
  7.0/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bgrotha
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 11, 2006 5:33 pm PT
Review:  Quake III: Team Arena is the first of the two Quake III Arena expansions. This one being the better 
 of the two. This takes the gameplay of Quake III Arena bases it on team play. If you think this 
 means, Crap, now I can Only play ctf and team dm, well you're wrong! There are new game types for 
 this team based deathmatch experience! They are rather creative I might add. Overload is a game 
 type in which you must quickly attack an Enemy's core until it explodes. Thieves is a game where 
 you must kill an opponent, grab his or her skull, and take it to the center power vessel for the 
 entire map. The new character models look fantastic. Sort of giving them a royal theme. Quite peculiar. 
 The new maps are even better! Large, detailed, and full of ways to actually use strategy rather 
 than the prancing and shooting of the original Quake III. The graphics haven't improved much however. 
 There are added voices to bot players which are somewhat cheesy. Remember when bots would say corny 
 threatening lines when you killed them in Quake III: Arena? Well this time, you actually hear it, 
 and though the sound quality is good, there's no denial this is some corny corn. Turn it off! Music 
 is the same, oh well! 3 new weapons spark our interests! The mine gun, and the return of the nail 
 gun and chain guns! YIPPEEE! Overall, Quake III: Team Arena adds a whole round of fun to the already 
 phenomenal Quake III experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Resident-Evil-
Rating: 1.6
Date: May 14, 2006 9:50 am PT
Review:  i think of this game as a knock off of Unreal its just made out to be what it is its so stupid 
 a copy cat and its a reture if you alreay have it. The sound and graphics were ok but could have 
 been better they really should have spent more time in makeing this game i didnt even finish it 
 there were also a lot of bugs with you being able to go into walls and being or shooting someone 
 and killing them with out hitting them its just not whats its cut out to be ill stay with Unreal 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zux2000
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 27, 2005 6:21 am PT
Review:  This expansion pack is totally underestimate! If you are or have been a hardcore Q3 player like 
 I've been, you can't miss this explosive great expansion! 
  
  I used to played Team Arena a lot on LAN with my friends, and somethimes on internet (But it was 
 very poor, because the servers was often empty, very strange.) -I can't understand that because 
 this expansion have it all:
  
  *More weapons (like the classic nailgun from Quake 1)
  
  *Some more real funny gameplays, like for one example an another different form of "capture the 
 flag", -how is even funnier than the usual capture the flag! 
  
  *It has a lot of more powerful things to pick up, that you will keep until you die, like the speed 
 burst, double damage etc, and you can only use one thing of them! (So a good team pick ups different 
 things, to be more powerful.)
  
  *it also more likely a "strategi form of FPS", -where you not only jump around "dit and dat" and 
 shoot everything, it's more seek and hide. -But ofcourse, it's Quake so when it's a real battle 
 you know how it looks like:)
  
  *Only the name "TEAM arena" means exactly that, it's more strategi now, it's more teamplay. If 
 you wanna play usual Deathmatch, how is a lot of fun to, you must play the original Q3, but when 
 it comes to team aganst team this is the best thing to play!
  
  *The maps are so wonderful and different, (same wonderful graphic that Q3 has, but a little more 
 upgraded) Everything from a cool space map to a real huge green landscape, how takes atleast 2 
 minutes to come to the enemies empire (if you not have the speed boost, and is lucky to not been 
 killed on the way) . But here comes the teamplay again, it's fun and smart to place out a sniperguard 
 (the best thing for the sniper is that he should have the dubbel damage with the railgun, one shot, 
 one kill!) 
  
  *Ofcourse it's jump around and kill, but also on some maps, is good to have som hide defense somewhere 
 who defends whatever you need to defend.
  
  This expansion is great! It couldn't been better! 10/10! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
