-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Quake II Mission Pack: Ground Zero
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/quake2missionpackgz/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep 30, 1998
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.9
Critic Score: 6.5, 4 Review (s)
User Score: 8.2, 252 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Activision
Developer: Rogue Ent.
Genre: Sci-Fi First-Person...
Date:     Aug 31, 1998

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Quake II is a year old, but the new weapons and power-ups make the game interesting again. 

 
 It's been almost a year since Quake II infected me with its eye-catching graphics and addictive 
 deathmatch, but to be honest, I haven't played it in a while. I've always loved Quake and Quake 
 II, but I grew tired of deathmatch after six months of constant play (either that or the competition 
 no longer gave me any challenge) . But even when I hung up my hat, I knew I'd come back once the 
 Ground Zero mission pack released. I heard about this mission pack months ago, looked at some of 
 Rogue's early work, and was excited. Now that it's released, I'm glad I've gone back to Quake II, 
 even if only for a short while. While Ground Zero doesn't promise anything drastically new, as 
 expansion packs go, it's pretty good.  

 As Quake games go, the story for Ground Zero isn't too bad. The Earth fleet attacking Stroggos is 
 stranded in orbit due to a Strogg gravity well. You've landed on the planet (presumably before 
 the gravity well went up) with one mission: destroy the gravity well.  

 The thing to remember with this pack is that it's not a new game. If you buy this mission pack expecting 
 something radically different from Quake II, you'll be disappointed. This is still Quake II, but 
 with a few new weapons, monsters, and levels. The textures aren't anything new, except for a little 
 more colored lighting and glowing patches in rock walls. For the most part, you'll think you've 
 seen these levels before. The sound also isn't noticeably different. The new levels generally follow 
 Quake II's design, but there are some surprises in store in several of the levels (falling rocks 
 and monster-triggered traps) , and more logical level transitions. Granted, there are the mandatory 
 red keys to grab, but you'll also have to turn on the power for a subway train to take you to another 
 part of the base or shut off all the valves in a cooling plant to overheat a Strogg power plant. 

 The new weapons aren't too bad. The new default weapon is the chain saw, which brings back some 
 fond memories. The second weapon you acquire is the ETF (explosive-tipped flechette) rifle. It's 
 basically the nail gun from Quake, except that it pierces armor. This is great in deathmatch against 
 plated human opponents, but in the single-player game, the ETF rifle isn't a sure thing by any 
 means, even with its armor piercing capability. The unfortunate thing is, this weapon looks and 
 sounds just too much like the original nail gun. The other two new weapons are the proximity mine 
 launcher and the plasma beam. Of these two, the plasma beam is by far the most impressive. It fires 
 a continuous beam of scorching energy. Not only does it have unlimited range (unlike its inspiration, 
 the Quake lightning gun) , but it doesn't use energy cells too quickly, and its knock-back ability 
 also helps to keep enemies away. The proximity mine, which fires mines that explode when an enemy 
 approaches, is more useful in deathmatch than in single-player mode.  

 The power-ups are actually very cool. The tesla mine fires lightning bolts at any nearby enemies 
 and is a good weapon for keeping monsters busy or protecting power-ups and weapons in deathmatch. 
 The defender sphere is the only sphere available in the single-player game and provides protection 
 from damage and also helps out by firing little blaster bolts at enemies. In deathmatch, two other 
 spheres become available, the vengeance sphere and hunter sphere, both of which punish enemy players 
 that hurt or kill you by firing off rockets at the perpetrators. Another deathmatch-only power-up 
 is the doppleganger, which creates a double of you that you can use as a decoy. Those who played 
 Duke Nukem 3D will know how useful this power-up can be.  

 The two best features of this level pack are the improved monsters and enhanced AI. The new monsters 
 are the turret and the stalker, both of which are nasty beasts. The turrets are positioned on the 
 ceilings and can fire down lasers or rockets at you. Their high perch makes them tough to spot, 
 and their constant presence throughout the game will teach you to circle-strafe up. The stalker 
 is a tough monster (it can take two point-blank rocket blasts) that can dodge your fire by jumping 
 up onto the ceiling. It can spit lasers at you or slash you with a melee attack. Thankfully, they 
 are solitary monsters.  

 The enhanced Quake II enemies are the medic commander and the daedalus. The medic commander can 
 revive fallen monsters or attack with a hyperblaster. And unlike in the original Quake II, where 
 the medic often neglected fallen comrades, the medic commander will revive anything within range 
 that has not been gibbed. The daedalus isn't too tough to fight, although it sports twin blasters 
 and a power shield. All monsters, though, have better AI. Now monsters will attempt to follow you 
 throughout a level, something they were supposed to do in Quake II but never did. Admittedly, I 
 never let a monster live long enough to track me across an entire level, but I could see them navigating 
 obstacles to come after me. They even jumped down cliffs or elevators after me, following me through 
 doors and lifts. Monsters will also pin you down when you hide behind boxes or walls, firing at 
 your last known location. So don't think you can just leave a room and then run back in expecting 
 the monsters to be idle again. Odds are when you run back in, you'll be walking into a hail of 
 bullets. This doesn't happen all the time, but enough to make you realize that these monsters are 
 smarter than they were in Quake II.  

 Quake II is a year old, but the new weapons and power-ups make the game interesting again. The two 
 boss monsters are also very nice (I won't ruin them for you) , as are the new monsters and enhanced 
 AI. I don't think the single-player experience will be that compelling once Half-Life and Sin release 
 next month, but in the meantime, you could do worse than play Ground Zero, especially with its 
 numerous new multiplayer maps. Rogue did a good job on the mission pack, and as long as you action 
 fans realize that this is just an expansion pack, and not a new game, you won't be disappointed. 
    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (2 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: ChristianKiss
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 14, 2008 5:49 pm PT
Review:  Quake II Mission Pack: Ground Zero (1998) , developed by Rogue Entertainment and published by Activision, 
 is an expansion to Quake II (1997, id Software) , a Sci-Fi First-Person Shooter where humans and 
 Stroggs are in a struggle for survival. In this expansion, you control again an unnamed soldier, 
 this time to destroy a gravity well in the Strogg planet that isn't allowing the human fleet to 
 ship on the surface.
  
  This add-on doesn't add much to the original Quake II, but the added content efficiently makes 
 the game harder and more slow-paced. It's harder because of both the amount of enemies and the 
 added monsters (as well modified versions from the original game) , and a bit slow-paced because 
 you can't simply enter in a room and continually kill stuff. The most noticeable addition in Ground 
 Zero are the auto-turrets, which will make the player to move more slowly and look carefully at 
 the walls and ceiling, since those mechanized weapons are very well placed, hard-to-spot and dangerous 
 ones.
  
  The auto-turrets can be really annoying sometimes, since you must break the pace and start searching 
 for them every time. And that doesn't guarantee that you won't be backstabbed by an auto-turret, 
 since some of them are activated only before you enter a specific area. This isn't fun at all and 
 will only make you quick load a lot, which is particularly bad, because Quake II is a game that 
 you'll want to freely and incessantly move in between rooms and corridors, gibbing the hordes of 
 aliens that are creeping around the Stroggs complexes. In my opinion, doing that without any stop 
 is much better.
  
  The new levels are great, and consumed 10 to 12 hours of my free time. Maybe it would be less if 
 I hadn't played on 'Hard' difficult, which I found challenging in almost all the maps. Also, the 
 enemies have a better Artificial Intelligence, and they even fire against you if you take cover, 
 shooting at your last known position. They also chase you, although is much like the mindless ghosts 
 in Pac-Man, and it's really easy to surprise them while you wait in a corner with a double-barreled 
 shotgun.
  
  There are new weapons and items as well: the chain saw remembers a lot the old DOOM; the ETF Rifle 
 is a remake of the nail-gun from the first Quake; the plasma beam may be compared to the original 
 lightning-gun; the proximity mine can be used to set traps against your enemies; the tesla mine 
 electrifies nearby monsters; and the defender sphere, which adds protection from attacks and also 
 fires energy bolts at the targets. There're also two spheres only for deathmatch, both of them 
 retaliates the attackers that either hurt or kill you. Another power-up exclusive for the competitive 
 multiplayer is the doppleganger, used to create a hologram of you to cheat opponents.
  
  I almost didn't use any of the new weapons and items, so you can bet that they aren't crucial for 
 your success in Ground Zero expansion. Nevertheless, if they aren't that useful in single player 
 mode, most of the new additions are quite helpful and even necessary in multiplayer. Not to mention 
 the new deathmach maps, which Rogue Entertainment certainly did a great job.
  
  So, it's true that the new content is a bit thin, but it's enough to change the original gameplay 
 and to make it even better sometimes, especially about the multiplayer mode. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Azghouls
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 10, 2008 8:15 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: 8
  Graphics: 8
  Sounds: 9
  Value: 8
  Tilt: 6
  
  When mega hit PC game Quake II was released in the market back in 1997, it was only a matter of 
 time when the mission packs will hit the shelves however the first mission pack arrived later than 
 expected. Maybe because of the huge online success of Quake II, id Software probably was willing 
 to wait until the dust settled and release these packs to spark up the community.
 
  
  Nevertheless, the first one of the rank is Rogues Software Ground Zero. Bearing 
 in mind that Rogue Software and id Software are housed in the same building, my immediate feeling 
 was there wont be much of a change from Quake II. Similar to Rogues Software previous 
 expansion pack back in 96 Dissolution of Eternity for Quake (and that was pretty 
 much a bore for me  check out my review on that) , Ground Zero unfortunately followed the 
 same path; that is more slugging festivities and not enough innovation.
  
  Ground Zero starts off well enough; as a matter of fact similar to Quake II, you are part of a 
 task force dropping into the Stroggs homeland only to realise that even though the big gun is no 
 longer big, the Stroggs' other weapon the gravity well is causing havoc to any ships 
 in its vicinity. Therefore your task is to infiltrate the stronghold and destroy the gravity well.
 
  
  The game play is essentially the same as in Quake II; knock over a couple of Stroggs, collect certain 
 items (which mirrored in Quake II) , press a few buttons here and there and then escape the planet. 
 However there are some elements that made is game a little different than in Quake II. Firstly 
 the level designs are a lot more confusing and a good memory is required. For example: there is 
 a force field that blocked a doorway which requires for you to enter another level only to press 
 some button to release the force field back on the previous level. When you head back you start 
 off in another position therefore spending some time wandering around trying to get your bearing 
 straight. On the surface, this may look like a challenge however if the Stroggs actually build 
 the installation the way it is, they themselves would be confused (and probably answers the question 
 why they only guard a certain spot) .
  
  Yet, the AI has improved significantly from Quake II. No more of that Ill just stand 
 here attitude as now if they spotted your presence, the Stroggs will be going on a hunting 
 spree and wont stop for no-one; similar to The Terminator chasing Sarah Connor. You can 
 imagine the Stroggs will flash a picture of you and stating Im looking for Ranger. 
 Have you seen him? when scurrying around those corridors.
  
  Another improvement is the implementation of turrets; not only you need to worry about the Stroggs, 
 the turrets are also a pain on the rear side. They will pop up when you least expected and whammo, 
 time to hit the reload key. I thought the turrets are placed strategically satisfactory as many-a-times 
 I was sneaking up on a Strogg only to realise that a turret was behind me taking aim and as a consequence 
 I died. Thereafter there was no more skipping merrily throughout the installations but peering 
 and listening for any hidden turrets.
  
  With any mission packs there will be new monsters and weapons. Some of the new monsters are really 
 well-designed and a royal pain. The medic for instance is now a force to be reckoned with. Armed 
 with a blaster, the s. o. b. also can revitalise dead comrades; so that dead gladiator you see there 
 can now bring back to life in a matter of seconds (among other Stroggs) so the whole idea is you 
 don't kill Stroggs, you gibbed them. The flying Daedalus is now armed with a power shield and the 
 new stalker is basically a really tough cyborg spider (whats with mission packs and spiders 
 anyway) . Some of the new weapons are the ETF Rifle (armour piecing) , prox mines and the 
 chainsaw made its way back. Personally I thought the prox mines is the only useful new weapon.
 
  
  A well known feature for any of id Software PC games is the concept of secret locations and levels. 
 I have located the majority of secret locations however because of the somewhat confusing map levels, 
 there will be some areas that you cannot return, no matter what. Also I think there is only one 
 secret level and the level itself is a bummer (hint: you will spend time just running for your 
 life) .
  
  Graphically and sound wise little has changed since Quake II. Its a shame as considering 
 its one year after the release of Quake II you come to expect some changes. The good news though 
 is that theres a new soundtrack from Sonic Mayhem that still gets your blood pumping. The 
 only other change that I have noticed was the lighting however not enough to warrant some discussion.
 
  
  Ground Zero as a mission pack is quite long. There are fourteen levels (plus one secret level) 
 hence the value is quite good  almost like having a new game. It also sports that easy, 
 medium and hard level difficulty and introduced via a console command the nightmare level. Considering 
 that this game is considerably harder than Quake II, expect to invest ten to twenty hours as there 
 will be times where you need to scout for those turrets and less of that gun-ho approach, unless 
 you like to die a lot.
  
  As Quake II was famed for its intense multiplayer matches thankfully Ground Zero made some improvements. 
 The game comes with ten new maps and some great new weapons which forces the player to change tactics. 
 Some new weapons are the Vengeance Sphere (which will trigger when you reach less than 25% of your 
 health as the sphere will go on a killing spree) , Hunter Sphere (triggers when you die then it 
 will track the killer without remorse) , Anti-Matter bomb (plant it and r-u-n) and my personal favourite 
 the Doppelganger (creates a copy of you) . There are also three different styles of multiplayer 
 options: death match, co-op (up to four players  very cool indeed) and tag (grab the tag 
 token, get a healthy bonus and get three frag points for every kill) . 
  
  Since it is one year after the release of Quake II, I felt this mission pack was released a little 
 too late. Even though there is not enough innovation, the mission pack is still a good expansion 
 to those whos aching for some more quaking. Ground Zero reminds me a lot like Dissolution 
 for Quake  more of that corridor romping and not enough spark. That said and thankfully 
 so, the multiplayer is still where the fun is. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
