-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Quake II
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/quake2/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec 19, 1997
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 9
Critic Score: 8.9, 15 Review (s)
User Score: 8.8, 2,955 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Activision
Developer: id Software
Genre: Sci-Fi First-Person...
Date:     Nov 30, 1997
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Whatever else may be said about Quake II, one thing is certain: It is the only first-person shooter 
 to render the original Quake entirely obsolete. 

 Whatever else may be said about Quake II, one thing is certain: It is the only first-person shooter 
 to render the original Quake entirely obsolete. Within moments of starting the game, it is safe 
 to say that all but the most irrationally loyal players will acknowledge that Quake II is better 
 than the original in every respect, and that no one who can afford to upgrade will have any reason 
 to ever load Quake again. Considering the countless hours invested by countless players in the 
 game, that's a remarkable achievement.  

 It's also significant because since Quake shipped 18 months ago, we have seen a steady stream of 
 challengers, games that have been trumpeted by press and players alike as the successors to the 
 first-person throne. But none of these games has actually come through on that count - not Hexen 
 II, not Jedi Knight, and certainly not any of the half-dozen "Quake Killers" that have yet to make 
 it out of alphaland and onto store shelves. But Quake II does come through, delivering at least 
 incremental and occasionally monumental improvements over its predecessor.   

 Many gamers describe playing Quake II in semireligious terms, and when immersed in the 3Dfx version 
 of the game, it's easy to understand why. The visual effects are awesome, as in awe-inspiring. 
 The masterful weaving of subtle graphic effects - colored hues that blend seamlessly into one another, 
 intricate textures cast over complex and beautiful architectural features, and realistic transitions 
 between light and shadow - creates a graphic environment that is without peer on the PC. Of course, 
 Quake II supports many graphics modes and 3D cards (it utilizes OpenGL) , and players will surely 
 find a combination that works well on their system (even if it's a now-ancient Pentium 150) . But 
 none approaches the 3Dfx version, and it is the only way through which one can fully appreciate 
 the technological achievement of the game.  

 There are gameplay achievements, as well. Most notable, of course, is the inclusion of a well-crafted, 
 mission-driven single-player game. As players of its previous titles know, id has never been much 
 for storylines, and while Quake II won't win any interactive fiction awards, it does make a credible 
 effort to pull you into the game emotionally as well as viscerally. As you advance through Quake 
 II's multisection levels, an increasingly ominous sense of purpose takes hold. And by the time 
 the prison doors are opened and the factory is breached, it is difficult not to experience a certain 
 tinge of horror, and perhaps even fear - both of which spur you on in a way altogether different 
 from the deathmatch adrenaline rush that made the original Quake so famous.  

 Not to worry - the deathmatch rush is still there. And although the territory is now quite familiar 
 to most players, Quake II offers a compelling multiplayer experience, due in large measure to a 
 much-needed recasting of available weapons. No more does the player with the rocket launcher hold 
 all the cards in deathmatch levels. Devastating alternatives now exist, especially in the form 
 of a new electromagnetic rail gun and more versatile grenades, which may be picked up and thrown 
 in addition to being used with a launcher. Realistic machine and chain guns also pack a powerful 
 punch, with the latter capable of cutting an opponent to shreds within a second or two. The weapons 
 have also been more acutely balanced, making more powerful weapons more difficult to use. For instance, 
 the deadly rail gun takes nearly full second to power up and fire, and requires precise aim. The 
 damage done by rockets has been lessened, and the rocket launcher takes a few moments to reload 
 between shots.   

 The deathmatch experience also benefits from always interesting and occasionally ingenious level 
 design. Not only are the levels tremendously varied in terms of architectural composition, style, 
 and setting, they include boundless opportunities for ambush, sniping, and close-quarter encounters. 
 The omission of a cooperative multiplayer mode is notable and puzzling (especially in light of 
 the enhanced in-game communication capabilities) . This issue will surely be addressed in the very 
 near future, if not by id itself, then by any number of aspiring Quake II mod designers.  

 Other aspects of the game are more subtlety improved and fall short of being state-of-the-art. The 
 sound effects, especially when set to the high-quality mode, are superb - so good, in fact, so 
 as to render the rather monotonous musical soundtrack irrelevant (if not downright annoying) by 
 comparison. But the sound effects of the original Quake were also first-class, and one might have 
 hoped for the employment of more advanced technology, such as surround or even positional sound 
 in the sequel. Enemy animations are much better (taking a clear cue from the N64 shooter Turok: 
 Dinosaur Hunter) , but in general the base character designs are somewhat nondescript and certainly 
 not a match for those of rivals such as Hexen II. And while the enemy AI often delivers what id 
 promised, and creates opponents that are more tenacious and more cunning than before, there is 
 still something very mechanistic about their movements, almost like if one could look closely enough, 
 the strings connecting them to some cosmic puppeteer might be seen glinting in the light.  

 But none of these are substantial criticisms. Given all of the strengths outlined above, one must 
 conclude that Quake II is nothing less than a remarkable game, and we recommend it without hesitation. 
 Compared with the original, everything in Quake II is better, nothing is worse. But still... there 
 is a lingering sense - especially after spending dozens of hours with the game - that something 
 is missing, that somehow things aren't quite right. What's missing, in fact what is altogether 
 absent - the sense of true surprise, novelty, and even fun that once existed in the first-person 
 shooter. Or to put it another way: Although it's never been done better, it's all been done before, 
 and that casts a shadow on the experience that no amount of technology can hope to penetrate.  
   
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (58 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Sardinar
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 26, 2008 11:15 am PT
Review:  "Trespasser!" - Berserker. 
  
  Well, Quake 2 starts out with you crashing through the ceiling in some capsule with something written 
 on it (there was no apparent cinematic, so I figured) . You pick up your trusty blaster and start 
 gibbing Stroggs right from the start of the game. I am sure I could've written more, but I haven't 
 played Quake 1 yet so I can only tell you what I saw in Quake 2.
  
  Story: I do not rate the game by it's story unless it was developed after 1998, even though this 
 game was developed only one month away from 1998, I still won't.
  The good: You have your little log that gives out missions will give you a brief idea of what's 
 happening, crazed prisoners will give you an idea of what Strogg will like you to be and how Strogg 
 will like you to die.
  The bad: Hey! Don't judge an old game so harshly!
  
  Gameplay:
  The Good: A large variety of enemies that don't require a great AI to have fun with. Great guns 
 with good sounds and satisfying kills. 
  Gibs. Great Multiplayer! Good replay value.
  The Bad: Once you have learned every aspect of the single-player, it will be too easy even on hard 
 mode. This doesn't hurt the replay value much, but I like a challenge.
  
  Graphics: 
  The Good: Quake 2 engine is better than the former ID games' engine, but it is not a great advantage 
 over future games.
  The Bad: This engine will not be as good compared to games like Half-life, Unreal and UT when Quake 
 3 comes out, needs improvement.
  
  Overall - Quake 2 brings the old-school action to life and entertains you all the way to the end, 
 but when you learn how to deal with every enemy in the game - it gets kinda way too easy... even 
 the last boss might take you seconds to kill if you know what to do. The game is still very entertaining. 
 Great multiplayer! The graphics engine was the best at it's age - 1997, but sooner it will need 
 improvement due to the release of games like Half-life or Unreal with their beautiful graphics 
 and such.
  
  Score - Gameplay - 9.5
  Graphics - 9
  Story - N/A
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MAMAFACE
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 27, 2008 10:01 pm PT
Review:  It's pretty basic at the first but, it gets more challenge the next few levels like, underwater 
 fighting and firefights, etc. But the multiplayer pretty much covers it all, and pretty intense 
 too. Plus also like any other game it has tons of World War 2 mods like D-Day Normandy that are 
 avalible at www. planetquake. So, if you are looking for a intense sci-fi shooter you really need 
 to check out Quake 2. To make sure this review will have you searching for Quake 2 on the net you 
 need to also check the explosive and blazing over the top action of the Quake 2 expansions like 
 Ground Zero, The Reckoning , with these ground breaking expansions you now have accese to new much 
 more strong weapons. And if you don't really care about the story driven Quake 2 singleplayer you 
 can always have Quake 2 multiplayer which is great for Quake 2 fans. Not only that Quake multiplayer 
 is outstandingly awesome most of the maps are from the singleplayer game if you played singleplayer 
 then you can use the your memory of the map to your advantage in multiplayer matches. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oscarua
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 11, 2008 3:05 pm PT
Review:  It's difficult make a objetive review for this game, because i confess to be a great fun of Quake 
 II.
  
  I think the major hit of Quake II is that make itself one of the best and more popular games of 
 gaming industry in years (1997, 1998) when the classics came to life. If you are a gammer, and 
 specifically a PC gamer you have to agree with this fact. Half-Life, Unreal, Starcraft, Age of 
 Empires, Fallout, NFS3, SimCity 3000, etc, etc, etc. In that years you have so many awesome games 
 to play only for PC platform that you simply cannot stay with all of them, and in this incredible 
 set of greatest warriors two of them get were the shinniest stars: Starcraft and Quake II. Both 
 games stay away from the other competitors thanks to the powerful multiplayer abilities, but its 
 opposite gaming line make a break between PC game players, a break existent even today: the strategy 
 gamers and the FPS gamers.
  
  Quake II singleplayer is immersive, fun, creepy, interactive and long enough to keep the player 
 absolutly intrigated and needed for more and more play until the end, the environments, the enemies, 
 the bosses the guns, even the basic storyline are simply great.
  
  Quake II LAN multiplayer is absolutly the best multiplayer experience i never lived, there is no 
 game until 2008 capable of give me the infinite fun sensation of playing Quake II on a lan environment. 
 The traditional DM mode was a tornado of funny shooting time, the CTF add some team skills. There 
 are hundreds of mods and personalizations for the game. I recommend the KOTS and KICK mods.
  
  The relevance of Quake II (and Starcraft too) is so notorious that even now eleven year and 
 numerous 3D card generations past since his launch, still remains a lot of servers and gamers who 
 plays this game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChristianKiss
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 10, 2008 5:25 pm PT
Review:  Here is an 11 years old First-Person Shooter game, and I'm sure that, even with all the technology 
 we have today, there aren't too many games better than this one. Quake II (1997) is the name of 
 the classic developed by id Software and published by Activision, and it's also the sequel to one 
 of the best games back in 1996, the original Quake.
  
  Although Quake II is only a sequel because of its name, it's better than its antecessor in almost 
 every aspect. To be honest, the only thing I preferred in the original Quake was the dark fantasy 
 setting, since Quake II features the depleted subject "human vs. aliens" (in this case, Human vs. 
 Stroggs) . But even by using that common sci-fi concept, Quake II shows how a game can be awesome 
 just because of its visceral gameplay.
  
  I'll not say here that this game has an intriguing story or amazing graphics and sounds, because 
 that would be a horrible lie, considering the high-tech and more elaborated games we have now. 
 The appeal of Quake II is the gameplay, which I'm afraid I'll never experience something so frenetic 
 again, at least in any of the newer id Software games.
  
  Why is gibbing your opponents with overpowered weapons so great? I mean, using a double-barreled 
 shotgun against a grunt and watch his pieces flying is extremely fun! Better than this, firing 
 with the same weapon against a player in multiplayer mode is even better. Those little things are 
 what make Quake II so superb. Everything works mutually to build a unique experience: the character 
 movement speed, damage dealt by your weapons, design of the maps, amount of enemies and items per 
 level, balanced difficult... and the list goes on.
  
  In Quake II, you play with a soldier that must break in an alien facility, while accomplishing 
 missions and dealing with the Stroggs, an evil alien race. The character receives his objectives 
 via a PDA, and this greatly helps you to go to the right place, since most levels in Quake II are 
 filled with straight corridors and a lot of similar rooms. But the levels aren't too linear, since 
 you have a lot of secrets passages and maps to go through, which extends the single player campaign.
 
  
  Your weapons are very strong, but balanced enough to make the use of all weapons equally useful. 
 You start with an unlimited and weak pistol, but you'll occasionally find the shotgun and the machine 
 gun pretty fast; and, later on, the heavy double-barreled shotgun. Those are your standard arsenal, 
 but eventually you'll get the real powerful stuff, such as the chain-gun, the rocket launcher and 
 the rail-gun.
  
  The enemies are variety and get stronger over the time, as you progress deeper into the Strogg 
 facilities. Some of them are very resistant, but they either attacks only at melee range or move 
 very slowly; while others are flying mechanical things or mutated soldiers.
  
  The levels are usually big, and sometimes you have to go back to an already visited place to finish 
 an objective. Since the campaign has a lot of those big levels, you can bet that the standard player 
 will spent more than 10 hours to finish it. And, although the levels become a little repetitive, 
 they don't bore the player because there're a lot of targets to shoot at, as well a variety of 
 missions.
  
  However, it's the multiplayer that really shines in Quake II. The deathmatch mode, no matter if 
 there are only two or 32 players, it's highly addictive. You'll usually get low ping on every server 
 you join, even with low-speed internet connections. The Cooperative mode is also available after 
 the official point release, and it is cool beating the single player levels with some friends.
 
  
  Quake II is a simple game at heart, but all its featured qualities are so well-done that makes 
 it one of the best games of all time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nintendoguy93
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 21, 2008 10:40 am PT
Review:  it does good with the objectives, but not as good as goldeneye, with plain "quake" textures & sounds, 
 along with the weapons & even the level design, & most of all, the graphics aren't as good as what 
 can be seen on the nintendo 64. but it as been made in 1997 so goldeneye has been superior in that 
 time, but the AI has improved & the gameplay remains the same, but the game grows tiring, so i'm 
 not going to be too mean, but giving it a low rating as a good game... barely. so basically, this 
 game is highly over rated with the graphics, but only a few things keep the game up to me being 
 able to play it for more than 10 hours in my valuable life, & i really don't think this game deserves 
 a 9.0, because it's old gameplay & low arsenal of weapons make it almost not worthy of being a 
 64-bit era title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aschuhart
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 26, 2008 2:57 am PT
Review:  When Quake II was release, the original Quake was still going strong. However Quake II took a new 
 approach to the series. In a genre where sequels were typically nothing more than just over glorified 
 expansion packs, Quake II too the series to a whole new level. First the graphics were given a 
 big boost and at the time, they were just amazing. But the major thing about this version was the 
 fact it made you feel part of an actual story in a sense. Though there really wasn't a storyline, 
 there were allies running around WITH you. Up until this point in FPS games, you were ALWAYS alone. 
 It was a very nice change of pace and certainly helped with the immersion into the game and it's 
 atmosphere. Once again id also out did themselves with the sound effects however, there was one 
 part they did lack on from the original quake: the music. Now Quake II was more about a war with 
 an alien rival while the original Quake was more about survival in dark hellish type environment. 
 Trent Reznor did a fantastic job with the music with the original quake, but that type of music 
 was meant for that atmosphere and not the one generated with Quake II, however I must admit that 
 the music still could have used some improvement but that's only a very minor consideration. All 
 in all, Quake II was and still is a great game that definitely made it's place in the ground breaking 
 series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doubleajunkie
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 21, 2008 2:19 pm PT
Review:  Quake II... is awesome. Still fun after 10 years since it came out. Just moving through room after 
 room, killing stuff. But it becomea so engaging once you start playing it. The only thing that 
 is disappointing is the ending. Who wants to work hard throughout the entire game, and then come 
 to 'THE END' in huge letters? I guess that's what you get when there's no storyline... but everything 
 in between is awesome. 
  I think it's the best in the series, although the graphics and pixels are so outdated.
  It seems 
 so simple and primitive now because a lot of games have been built off it, ex. Half Life 2. And 
 I think the beginning of First-Person Shooters came alive when Quake II came out. 
  There's so much to talk about pertaining to Quake II, I can't think of where to start, so I'll 
 just stop here... maybe I'll continue later... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Azurewrathhal
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 1, 2008 2:50 pm PT
Review:  So... Quake 2. It's a classic, and for good reason. Still great fun and fully playable right outta 
 the box, which is more than I can say for a lot of games that came after it, let alone games more 
 than ten years old.
  
  I'm going to keep the meat of the review fairly short, I'm assuming there aren't many people who 
 don't know what a quake game is about. You kill stuff, move to next room, repeat. Good times. But 
 playing the game did take me back to a better age of gaming, so let's talk about that.
  
  First, before I say anything else, how about that ending huh? Wow... I don't even know what to say 
 about it really, other than it was colossally disappointing. I mean jeeze, all that hard work for 
 a 2 minute cutscene and THE END in giant block letters? Good lord that's bad. Like... Hollywood 
 bad.
  
  Then again, only a fool would pick up an ID software gaming looking for engrossing story. Sure, 
 the ending is godawful, and the storyline is thin at best, but everything in between is just great.
 
  
  I am somewhat sad that I never got to play Quake 2 on the pc back in the days when it was first 
 released, I can only imagine the way it must've felt when it was cutting edge, but the game's engine 
 has actually aged rather gracefully, fine wine that it is at this point. It is at it's heart just 
 doom in a different engine, but some great things made their first appearances here, such as the 
 levels being connected areas separated only by brief load times, mission based gameplay, reactive 
 AI. Sure, it all seems rudimentary now, but 10 years ago it was likely amazing.
  
  And it's worth mentioning that it seems rudimentary now because a lot has been built off of it. 
 Half life for instance.
  
  Overall, the game is still great, probably still the best in the series, if not one of the better 
 first person shooters of all time, and now that it's on steam there's really no reason not to play 
 it if you haven't already and you like a good old meaty action flick shooter every now and then. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spanky333
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 25, 2008 2:12 pm PT
Review:  Here I am in 2008 playing Timesplitters: Future Perfect, and as I play co-op I am constantly reminded 
 that at it's best it achieves or surpasses Quake 2. This is the bar though. 
  I remember being up all night playing Quake 2 co-op online. It was such a blast to be able to connect 
 online and play anything, and then to be able to talk over what was probably msn messenger or something.. 
 (roger wilco wasn't happening for us for some reason) it was just about as cool as it got.
  It was definitely the nail in the coffin for lan parties for me. Online deathmatch became a legitimate 
 sport. I remember being in teams, knowing some of these nick name guys like they were next door 
 neighbors. What did they look like? Marines of course.
  The deathmatch has never quite been equaled in my mind, and the co-op was even better if you ask 
 me. It was great to use the grapple and have formations and just know the damn game to a point 
 where you could go in like Rainbow Six and learn those Stroggs good!
  Quake 2 was just so dang slick as well. It was one of those games that you upgraded all your hardware 
 for. We all benchmarked our computers by the demo movie. I had never even heard of FPS before Quake 
 2.
  In regards to the original Quake, it does need to be said that it might as well have just been 
 called "Quake 2 demo.. work in progress". It was a great great game. I have many fond memories 
 of it, but if you look at it now it looks really silly compared to its sequel. 
  It seems odd that Quake 3 was released as it was. There was plenty of Arena in Quake 2. Sure Quake 
 three had slicker graphics and ran like a wild chicken on crack, but game play wise, it was easily 
 just a port of what we were already doing in Quake 2.
  
  Quake 2 will always have a place in my gaming heart, its single player was engaging and memorable, 
 it's multiplayer continues to be the water mark for modern FPS's, and lets face it, that opening 
 sequence is still one of the coolest.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kragspire
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 9, 2007 1:38 pm PT
Review:  Towards the end of the 20th century we started to evolve as gamers into the 3D genre. Thanks to 
 companies like 3D Realms. Valve, and id software, this only made the transaction more tempting 
 to upgrade your old computer. One of the backbones that would later be used to create classics 
 such as Half-Life was the one and only Quake 2.
  
  Most of the same gameplay is back in the 2nd round of this FPS. This time we find that the game 
 introduces a whole new breed of monsters called the Strogg. These beasts are created by mixing 
 the flesh of dead soldiers with machines. The result is a horror-packed frag fest that is very 
 entertaining. On top of this, the game takes us through missions instead of just reaching the end 
 of a level. You will have different objectives, be it destroying a massive AA gun to restoring 
 power to key locations. The game still has some of the infamous key cards but it is not the main 
 focus of advancement. 
  
  You will find new types of weapons in this version of Quake. One of the more powerful weapons is 
 called the rail-gun. This "sniper rifle" shoots ammo at an impressive rate, causing you to one 
 shot some of the stronger baddies. It also takes alot of skill to use in deathmatch. You will need 
 to learn how to turn a 180 in the air, pop your enemy's head off across the map, all at the same 
 time to become a master. The other types of weapons you expect are still in the array, including 
 the BFG and a not-so-shabby laser chaingun. 
  
  The gibbed remains of an enemy are not as impressive as they were in Quake 1. Where before you 
 are able to see different body parts bounce off of walls and the ceiling in Q1, this time around 
 the remains just kind of sit there. Some of the movement controls in Quake 2 can be a pain at times, 
 as it feels like you are skating on ice. With these issues aside, you are going to find that Quake 
 2 lives up to the quality that id software is known for in their games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FLuXx23
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 27, 2007 4:50 pm PT
Review:  I played this game since it came out and then for easily 10 years playing with friends, helping 
 with new mods and such. There is so much to the game that isn't found on the surface level. There 
 are skills to unlock that don't take saving up points, but actually learning the skill necessary 
 to do rocket jumps, strafe jumps, and pin point accuracy with a rail gun. The engine is so flexible 
 that the mods for this really helped prolong the life of this game. I still play it from time to 
 time. Freeze tag, normal deathwatch and Gloom, a full mod of marines vs aliens. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: leon41235
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 16, 2007 7:34 pm PT
Review:  This game is just amazing. The single player campaign is very fun, and it has a great online multiplayer 
 that is very fun to play and compete against other people. I don't care what year it is, this is 
 a classic. Everyone should play this game! It is such a good first-person shooter! This game will 
 go down in history as the best Quake game, and one of the greatest first-person shooters ever. The 
 only reason it didn't get a perfect ten was a few minor barely noticable flaws, and the graphics. 
 The graphics are hard to critizice considering when this was made and then actually taking a good 
 look at it. The graphics are very good. However it is today and standards has increased. No matter 
 when it was made the graphics are no longer perfect, not with the 360 and ps3. I recommend this 
 to anyone, chances are your computer can run it. Everyone buy Quake 2, play the game, experiance 
 its greatness. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zubidoo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 9, 2007 6:49 am PT
Review:  Quake II was one of those games that I started playing at the time it was released, but for some 
 reason I stopped playing it on around the second level. I had played the multiplayer a few times, 
 but I was never quite as engaged with it as I was with Half-Life's or Goldeneye's. Despite my seeming 
 lack of desire to really play Quake II, I ended up re-installing it 11 years later and found a 
 true gem of a game! Quake II is easily one of the most inspired and FUN shooters I have ever played.
 
  
  To think that the gameplay would be great 11 years after-the-fact is a longshot, but somehow Quake 
 II succeeds tremendously. Everything just FEELS right and every single weapon is a blast to use 
 (although they aren't *as* cool as Quake 1's) . You've got a plasma pistol that never runs out of 
 ammo, a shotgun, super shotgun, machine gun, chaingun, rocket launcher, grenade launcher, railgun 
 and the BFG (the most famous FPS gun ever that is insanely powerful) . You pick up ammo off the 
 ground as well as health and armor packs that are hidden (or not so hidden) within each level. 
 On top of these things you can acquire special items (that you can save up and use any time you 
 want) such as oxygen tanks (for breathing underwater longer) , invincibility, super armor and quad 
 damage. You have objectives in each level that you have to accomplish in order to progress through 
 the game (mostly just pushing a button or getting a key) , but it's still a nice addition to be 
 able to see what it is you're supposed to do (although it IS possible to not know what to do or 
 where to go next, this almost never occurs) . Although the game is fairly easy even on hard, that 
 was only because I'm a really good FPS gamer to begin with. Difficulty levels will definitely vary 
 depending on who is playing. The visual and aural effects used for all of the guns are surprisingly 
 good after all these years. It basically never gets old killing all of the various forms of enemies 
 throughout the game. Speaking of which, you get to fight mutated marines, bigger and more powerful 
 mutated marines, melee cyborgs with sharp metal arms, female cyborgs that launch missiles at you, 
 railgun cyborgs, machine gun cyborg tanks, missile cyborg tanks (with missiles and machine guns) , 
 flying cyborgs, two types of flying sentry machine guns, flying tanks (boss) , huge rolling tanks 
 (another boss) , and then the final boss himself. They aren't quite as cool as Quake 1's monsters, 
 but they get the job done well. However, it does get a LITTLE repetitive fighting all these various 
 enemies over and over again, but somehow it never truly gets old (unlike in modern games like Halo) . 
 The other noticable *flaw* I noticed was that the game seems to just go on and on and just when 
 you think you beat the game you are sent somewhere else. This is only bad because you are going 
 to be playing consecutively for a while, and because it takes so long to beat the game you will 
 be worn out by its length and slight repetitiveness (mostly in the mood department) . The one really 
 innovative aspect of the gameplay that was carried over from Quake 1 is that you can actually make 
 the monsters fight each other! If you have an enemy shoot at you and you move so that his line 
 of fire hits another enemy, they will actually start to kill each other. Not only is this super 
 cool (and funny) , but it can be a useful tool if you're running low on ammo and need help killing 
 a boss. Every level is designed very well and it never gets confusing or non-fun to play through 
 them.
  
  The multiplayer is surprisingly good after all these years and is pretty perfect for small LAN 
 parties. The maps themselves are all easily memorizable, are well-laid out and are great for small 
 amounts of people. It's standard deathmatch or team deathmatch (with co-operative singleplayer) , 
 but all of the guns in the story mode are pretty fun to use when you're trying to kill other people. 
 Grenade launcher and railgun kills are especially satisfying. The best part is that basically every 
 computer ever now can run this game without a hitch, and the fact that it is great fun too is just 
 icing on the cake. It's not as amazing as some later multiplayer games like UT or Counter-Strike, 
 but it is still very very good.
  
  The story mode is surprisingly good, even if the way it's told isn't THAT great. The evil Stroggos 
 aliens are trying to destroy Earth, and humans are sending a bunch of troops as a last ditch effort 
 into their home world to destroy their planet and their race's leader. You, however, are the only 
 soldier to survive the ground assault and thus you must destroy their defenses and eventually their 
 leader yourself. You are basically humanity's last hope at defeating the evil Strogg (who experiment 
 on humans and make cyborgs out of their body parts. Several places in the game show you the torture 
 and test chambers, and they really are quite disturbing) . There are no in-game cutscenes ala Half-Life, 
 and there are no cool writings on the walls or what have you to advance the story. The only place 
 where the story progresses is after each overall level (there are areas that are made up of levels 
 that interweave seemlessly like in Half-Life) you get a CG cutscene that tells you what you did 
 and what you have to do next. It's not spectactular, but it helps give you a sense of purpose and 
 actually makes it much more immersive than it should be. It's not the best singleplayer ever, but 
 at least the story was an inspired one.
  
  The graphics engine itself is actually the same as Half-Life's and it still looks very good today. 
 To be honest, the only complaint in general graphics-wise is the repetitiveness of the art direction 
 throughout the game. By that I mean EVERY level looks dark and depressing with the SAME color schemes 
 and such. It gets a little monotonous, but thankfully it's great fun to play through. The guns 
 themselves are surprisingly memorable and well-modeled as they look like you would expect them 
 to look like and are just very satisfying to use. The enemies look pretty good and are actually 
 quite disturbing for a game this old, and so are the general environments. There is really nothing 
 bad about the visual aspects of the game except for the repetitive color and lighting schemes.
 
  
  The soundtrack is actually pretty lacking. Sure the sound effects are well done (though slightly 
 below Quake 1's) , but there really is no music in the game and this gets a little boring and depressing. 
 Also, the sound quality during the video sequences is very poor and muffled, at least when playing 
 on my Windows XP. Despite these flaws, though, there is nothing bad or dated enough to complain 
 about.
  
  Overall you can't really go wrong with Quake II. It's a solid single-player game with very good 
 old-school multiplayer that is great for small LAN parties. It's not quite as amazing as Half-Life 
 2 or even the original Quake, but it's great enough that you should still have fun playing it 11 
 years later. I would definitely recommend this game to any fan of first-person shooters! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alan36
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 28, 2007 3:52 pm PT
Review:  Cant fault this game, it may be old but gameplay wise it leaves many modern shooters dead in the 
 water...... Brill !The graphics may be dated but what the heck I mean Tomb Raiders earlier blocky 
 versions left later games looking sad, same here, Dont miss it because of its sell by date... just 
 enjoy... The only area I may slightly moan at (if pushed) is the chance you can get totally lost if 
 you take a wrong turn and walkthroughs are essential if this happens It happened to me twice but 
 no big deal. The save game and difficulty choice make this a game for people of all skill levels 
 which is something more modern shooters dont always allow for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: willxcool
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 22, 2007 7:05 am PT
Review:  Quake II is another legend in the series of the FPS, its the icon for all gamers out there who 
 just love to go one on one million aliens  ala Rambo one man army style You play as one of the 
 soldiers being sent in to combat via Drop pods and your going against a race called the strogs, 
 earlier in the game you will be dropping from space into the strogs territories, but your army 
 manage to drop you out of range of where your suppose to be then the battle of survival begins 
 to locate your team and to proceed to the mission even when your alone.
  Game play involves quick reflexes on your fingers running and shooting, locating hidden keys, activating 
 levers to open doors stuff you normally get in a FPS game, As you proceed you will obtain in all 
 7 different weapons, all has its unique fire power, but many still will stick to the Holy trinity 
 in arms that is your blaster (pistol) shotgun, and rail gun at most they do the job well than enough
 
  Another thing I loved about this game that its AI programming, thats when you shoot someone 
 one the leg they will fall holding that leg and scream as they travel to the other side, the same 
 goes for the head, making it feel real at some point,
  Environment has its touch of alien tech bringing life to the surrounding area making it seems that 
 youre on another planet
  Nothing to complain about Quake II due to its awesome game-play and good controls, realistic sound 
 and environments needless to say its a PERFECTO 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ng2006
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 23, 2007 3:10 am PT
Review:  I can't remember how I first introduced to QII but I do remember I'd performance difficulties while 
 playing because of low graphic device. But I DID enjoy that I never forget. Breathe-Taking combats, 
 Well-Designed weapons &amp; levels, Smart AI enemies (And also so funny when they start fighting 
 each other) and etc. Right now it's 2007 and I still enjoy playing this game even after completing 
 it more than 6 times. I believe that Q4 (With that fantastic 3D graphics and effects) still sux 
 comparing to Q2. This comparison is true about other ID Software products which first introduced 
 in DOS and then reproduced for Windows like Doom II (DOS) which was fascinating and Doom III (Windows) 
 which was nonsense. Wolf3D (DOS) which was very nice and Return To Wolfenstein (Windows) which 
 was damn boring. I think that ID Software has lost his way back to those good old days. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bugzyx
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jun 22, 2007 9:26 am PT
Review:  Quake 2 is an Alien like War Fighter game. It is on of the amazing tactical shooter game that I 
 have played. If you you have the drive and guts then you will have a blast with this game, it makes 
 your heart jump. Many friends of min efind this game very hard to play because of its adrenaline 
 shock, but I think that they are'nt just fit for gaming... I enjoy mostly the multiplayer options, it 
 enables you to customize your character to the fullest level and making it difficult for yor other 
 opponent to challenge you....... Play Quake 2 on hard mode was one of the most challenging . The 
 advanced alienated weaponry, from my favourite.. the super shoot gun.. allows you to elimate your 
 enemies in the shortest amount of time... All you gamer out there.. try this out... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DiabeticDood
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 26, 2007 5:41 pm PT
Review:  I didnt think Quake could get any better but I was horribly wrong with new improved graphics better 
 sound and a story to play through this will leave you coming back for more years to come! With 
 multiplayer having your Deathmatch, Team Deathmatch, Capture the Flag, and a few more modes added 
 in there it will keep you playing long after the Single player. With the single player story being 
 creative and fantastic it even fun to play through that a few times. With newer updated weapons 
 looking fantastic this game should be on everyones computer! This is also a really good LAN game 
 to play with a few friends. With this game being semi older its gonna be cheaper but a little 
 hard to find. There is the Quake collection pack with Quakes 1-3 for 20 dollars. This is a great 
 deal. I think this game is just awesome and all my computers in my house have this game on it. 
 I play QII at least twice a month its just an awesome game! Still amazes me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xtreme_chief
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 29, 2007 2:10 am PT
Review:  QUAKE 2 completely smashes games like Doom and Doom Ultimate or whatever it is called. With Quake 
 1 gameplay, slightly better graphics, expansion packs, new monsters and history to the series Quake 
 2 is the best in it's series and the best game in the world. What can I say. Well I will say this, 
 almost every thing I said about QUAKE 1 PLUS THE FOLLWING. So who ever is reading this review start 
 playing QUAKE 1 2 3 and 4 and keep playing until you well want to take a break from playing.
  
  Weapons are great for a classic FPS. A good range including the standard every game rocket 
 launcher, Shotgun, pistol for the start of the game, Grenades and the spectacular BFG. Gameplay 
 is what you can expect from a classic, just all fun running around killing alien soldiers while 
 not stopping. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fastpunk
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 15, 2009 4:00 pm PT
Review:  id Software made many famous games along the years, the Doom series and Quake being on top of the 
 list. The first Quake established itself as a community favorite, mainly because of its fast-paced, 
 super responsive gameplay. So is Quake II a worthy sequel?
  
  The gameplay ideas behind Quake II are not revolutionary or new. Those who've played other id Software 
 games before it know exactly what to expect: you basically go around killing everything that moves, 
 and retrieve a key or some other item in order to gain access to the next level. It's a simple, 
 straightforward, but ultimately entertaining game. Obviously, the weapons you find along the way 
 are your only friends. And while I can't say they're as well balanced or responsive as the ones 
 from the first Quake, they will get the job done. 
  
  Quake II also delivers an atmospheric experience, thanks to good use of ambient effects and sound 
 queues, and generally more diverse environments than previous id Software games managed to pull 
 off. Obviously, the story tends to fall into the background... not that there's much of a story 
 to tell: you're stranded on an alien world called Stroggos and you need to kill your way to the 
 alien leader, and take him out.
  
  Of course, this review wouldn't be complete without a few words on multiplayer. The game was specifically 
 designed for "trigger-happy idiots" so there's no time to stop and think about it. It doesn't feel 
 quite as competitive or tight as the first Quake, but it's plenty fun anyway.
  
  Moving on to the tech side, and we find another area where Quake II excels: graphics. It was the 
 best looking game of its time, until Unreal came along and snatched that crown... The sound is 
 also good, it definitely plays a part in the game's good atmosphere. It's a solid game on the technical 
 side for sure.
  
  Overall, this is one sweet shooter that provides a fast paced, ultra fun experience. So yes, try 
 it. And don't forget to also try the two expansions, Ground Zero and The Reckoning, while you're 
 at it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Azghouls
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 28, 2007 7:11 pm PT
Review:  You think by this stage id software is going to run of out ideas. They bound to release a dud. 
 Wolfenstein 3D, Doom and Quake were a mega success. It has to stop; surely. Then from the depths 
 of Hades comes Quake 2; the most aggressive FPS to date. This is not for the weakling. Your hard 
 drive will suffer; your CPU will cringe in fear; your soundcard will melt. Welcome all to THE war 
 of the machines! Welcome to the world of the Stroggs. Soldier, this is your heaven.
  
  Quake II is not a true sequel to Quake. There are no grunts, knights, ogres, shamblers or even 
 rottweilers (but id's dog collection has made a bio-engineered version so fear not) . No Shub-Nigguraths, 
 no Chthons, no NIN and no... wait for it... no John Romero! How can this be? Is this a good thing? 
 Read on.
  
  The game starts off with a wonderful intro when a military ship heads towards a mean planet surrounded 
 by asteroids. This is the Planet of the Stroggs. Here the big gun needs to be taken out and when 
 I mean big, it's BIG! The Giant Whopper; the triple cheese of cheeses. And the Strogg War Machine 
 knows how to use that thing. Well it's so effective that during the opening sequence it almost 
 wiped out the entire platoon of drop ships when they descended from their military crafts. The 
 good news (?) was that your drop ship was clipped by a 'cowboy' and you veered off in another direction 
 hence saved you for now and scored a great tour of the planet.
  
  Technically Quake II was superior. There was a lot of competition at the time of Quake II release 
 (Age of Empires, Fallout, Dark Reign and Diablo) however there was not really another worthy contender 
 for the FPS genre. Most of the other FPS were, ironically enough used the Wolfenstein, Doom or 
 Quake I engine! Another words, this game stands out like a wolverine among chickens and this wolverine 
 is hungry.
  
  Some of the weapons carried over from Quake have made some serious improvements. The shotgun for 
 example in Quake was nothing more than a BB gun comparing to Quake II super shotgun. This baby 
 packs a serious slap! Other favourites like the rocket launcher still makes an appearance and of 
 course the BFG. However new harsher weapons were released for total mayhem and enjoyment. One of 
 them was the rail gun. Slow in ROF however it's deemed to be one of the most deadliest weapon ever 
 released. One fire from this darling will either knock your opponent off their feet or simply sprinkle 
 the target with fairy dust. Only a swirly trail leaves the mark of this weapon.
  
  Of course lethal weapons equal lethal opponents. The Stroggs are the creation of Makron (which 
 is your goal to have tea with - FYI Makron likes herbal tea) ; they are all bio-engineered soldiers. 
 Yes, your fellow soldiers, your fallen comrades are now (with a few enhancements) the servants 
 of Markon's tea runs. From your basic guards to Berserkers (huge swinging spike hammer wielding 
 freaks) to Iron Maidens (chicks with d@#ks) to the mentally instable Gladiators (they have serious 
 issues and concerns and long overdue to seek counseling) along with many more. This is why you 
 need deadly weapons. After all you're up against the freaks of society.
  
  Graphically Quake II had some serious contenders during the release date however it still looks 
 pleasing to the eye. Only the explosions looks a little off-putting however who cares. Give me 
 gibs. The good news though was that Quake II (unlike Quake before the patches) supported openGL 
 straight out of the box. That spells 'tasty cheddar'. A nice touch was added in the game; windows 
 do break and shatter. Am I easily amused? Yes.
  
  Quake II poses the best sounds I have ever heard in any game. Period. All the sound effects are 
 earth shattering. It will punish your speakers. It will make your neighbours duck for cover as 
 they will think a nuclear strike has arrived. This is THE mushroom cloud of sounds. The soundtrack 
 on the other hand is the fallout. Does Sonic Mayhem mean anything to you?
  
  Quake II sported that typical easy, medium, hard and that secret 'nightmare' level, still the single-player 
 mode it's a long game. Long game equals great value and what's id software without secrets and 
 secret levels? There are plenty to search for however not really challenging as in Quake. The manual 
 on the other hand is a little simplistic (and yes I do read the manual) . It really doesn't explain 
 about why are we're in a war with The Stroggs. But again who gives a rat's ar$3. Frags and gibs 
 are good.
  
  Speaking of frags and gibs, the multiplayer is what got me addicted into further. Carrying on the 
 tradition from Quake the multiplayer again is not for the talkers. Plenty of death matches for 
 everyone to enjoy however unfortunately the online play was a little buggy. The bugs eventually 
 ended at version 3.21. Do I really care though? Not really.
  
  Overall, Quake II is death. You are weak, die. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SolarisDeschain
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 8, 2007 1:16 pm PT
Review:  Today Im reviewing Quake II for the PC. Quake II is, obviously, the sequel to IDs previous classic, 
 Quake. Its famous for its online multiplayer, and general fast-paced bloodbathiness.
  
  The story of Quake II really doesnt extrapolate in terms of cutscenes or anything like that, but 
 when you do have some story, it looks great while it lasts. The opening cutscene is epic and beautiful, 
 and a great tone-setter of things to come. You see, you are one of several marines sent to a far-away 
 planet, in a retaliatory strike after they hit Earth in droves. The Earth has harnessed alien technology 
 and it is time to strike back. The gameplay is more or less the typical FPS fare, although its 
 executed better in this game than in probably any First Person Shooter up to that point. Its a 
 fun game, to be sure, and the receptive feel of the keyboard and mouse set-up is actually quite 
 immersing. You really feel like youre the Chuck Norris here, or if you want to get little more 
 tragic and artistic with it, Sylvester Stallone as John Rambo playing both offense and defense, 
 only instead of a sadistic police garrison, its hordes of alien troops. You soon find out a few 
 more things about the story, but it progresses through gameplay alone. It never works quite as 
 well as Half-Life, but this came first, and you have to start somewhere. You soon find out that 
 the aliens have been conducting experiments on humans that they have captured from Earth to harvest. 
 With these experiments they have been creating hybrid Human-Strogg soldiers which frightening and 
 powerful capabilities. As you battle your way through the alien army single-handedly (which can 
 either make you look very bad ass or very tragic, depending on how you look at it) . The gameplay 
 is very fun; there are quite a few weapons at your disposal, and some of the latter weapons are 
 mind-blowing. Things like the Rail-Gun, which possesses the ability to fire through many enemies 
 at once, and the BFG (Big Freakin Gun) , which does things you wouldnt even imagine. Aside from 
 the single-player, which provides several hour of its patented high-octane gameplay you have the 
 multiplayer, for which Quake II is widely known. You can play with a lot of people, and do quite 
 a lot of stuff. There is capture the flag, the standard deathmatch, and some other modes which 
 offer some fun things to do. You can create your own name, and get your own model, several fun 
 ones can also be downloaded off of the interweb. All in all, Quake II is a very fun experience, 
 and is clearly one of the highlights in FPS history. The graphics in Quake II went leaps and bounds 
 over the original, and still hold up as pretty good today. The dull gray, industrial scenery looks 
 interesting instead of dull, and some of the enemy models can actually be quite scary. Of course 
 this is because the models are rather aberrant. Its just the disturbing extravagance that gets 
 you, not anything like Silent Hill. The guns are impressive, the models are distinctive and great, 
 and Quake IIs graphics do a good job atgoing a great job. Good job, guys. The sound is also pretty 
 good. The guns sound great, the music sounds good as well. Its more in the background because 
 this isnt the type of game that hooks on the package; it does that with its energy. But they havent 
 slacked in this area, the music is pretty good, but there isnt really anything more I can say.
 
  The value is pretty good. In fact its excellent and perhaps even endless. You finish the super-fun 
 and fairly lengthy single-player you go to the endless multiplayer fun. Ive played years of multiplayer 
 on Quake II. Honestly. Ive played it consistently for several years and it never got old. Its 
 very fun.
  
  In the end, Quake II delivers on the promise set by the ID name, and furthers the expectations 
 delivered by its predecessor. ID had revealed that they have a serious knack for this kind of stuff, 
 and as of this point in time, it hasnt gotten old. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fixer38
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 5, 2007 12:40 am PT
Review:  While Quake1 was not as fortunate as Quake2 we can still say that Quake1 packed a punch. Quake2 
 packs a punch also a so powerful one it will have you beaten down and entertained for hours to 
 come. From the beginning were you get out of your pod to the very end were you run to a pod Quake2 
 is awesome. The story is one of the most original ones I have seen to date. Your a marine... grab 
 your gun and kill all those Strogg bastards! What else do you need? Sure its simple, but it worked 
 more then well for Doom. So why not? Even if Quake2 is simple in concept it still offers you a whole 
 bunch of different weapons, power-ups, enemies and levels. Thats allot of stuff to start off with 
 so lets begin!
  
  Enemies - Mostly you will encounter Strogg Cyborgs that are really pissed on you since your the 
 one on the rampage. But fancy cyborgs is not all you will see on your rampage fiesta . You will 
 also encounter failed Strogg `experiments`, female marines turned into deadly `iron maidens`, dog 
 alike creatures that use there tongue to drain your hit-points. Well basically allot of bad guys 
 to use as meat what else do you need?
  
  Weapons - Lets all admit it the weapons in Quake2 are GREAT. You have so much stuff in here that 
 I will not write about all of the guns but instead I will write about the most `remarkable` ones. 
 Much like in Doom you have allot of different weapons to accompany you trout the game but you will 
 also never have something that does not fire. Since indeed your very first weapon is the blaster 
 that has no ammo, thus being unlimited. Likewise the blaster does not pack a punch but you will 
 have use for it, as a flash-light and early weapon. The second weapon you get in the game already 
 kicks ass. The Shootgun, hey?! I know it was logical do not dismiss me yet! Also you have the machine-gun, A 
 Supershotgun, A Railgun, A  and allot more! Ok... were have I heard 
 those before hmm let me think... nope never heard those names before.
  
  Power-Ups - One of the most remarkable things in Quake2 are the oh-so-loved power-ups. You have 
 - Quad  (Yes its a power-up) and ALLOT more.
 
  
  All in all Quake2 just kicks off with a blazing start and goes for the home run. If you love old-school 
 shoot the bad guys games then Quake2, will not let you down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bgrotha
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 4, 2006 9:29 am PT
Review:  Quake I made me contemplate giving up on First Person Shooters, because Id software (the father 
 of FPS) started going downhill with gaming. But now, here and now, we have Quake II, which was 
 a fantastic improvement over the original Quake. Let's begin. The gameplay is overall fantastic. 
 You run in a room, look around, you are surrounded, now you'll spend 5 whole minutes of fast paced 
 action taking all of these punks out. They're tough to take down and there's a lot of them. You 
 don't even have to think in Quake II until after a battle. That's when you have to find your keys 
 and find the door that they open. This lasts quite a while, and doesn't get old until the very 
 very end. The story of Quake II is.... WAIT... THERE'S A STORY? YES! Unlike the disastrous Quake 
 I! Quake II has a story! Quake II has a good story at that! Welcome to the future. A war is waging 
 between man kind, and the Strogg, a race of beings that have been fused with technology. Animals 
 and humans. You are a lone space marine who's squad was just massacred. You fortunately survive 
 the massacre and escape to the planet of the Strogg. But you're here all by yourself. You've got 
 to work your way through an enormous battle on a wasted planet, til you reach the palace and take 
 out the Strogg's leader! Don't stutter! Sound has improved. What's really good about the sound 
 is, as good as Half-life content is, the sound is a bit ruffled, but Quake II's sound is perfect 
 quality. There is no music, just the chilling sounds of wind and enemies yelling at you, or crying 
 from pain you cause them. The weapon selection is huge. There is a shotgun, pistol, machine gun, 
 super shotgun, hyper blaster, rocket launcher, rail gun, BFG10K, chain gun, and more. All of these 
 combine to make a great effort by a lone marine against an enemy race. Unlike the useless weapons 
 in Quake I that made the shotgun the only good weapon, Quake II makes you think before you shoot, 
 you have got to conserve some ammo, and save the other weapon's ammo for the very end. Exactly 
 what I did. I picked up a big gun but didn't waste it because I knew it would come in handy soon. 
 So in the very end, when I was face to face with the final enemy. I unloaded that huge gun on his 
 face and took him down with ease. Graphics no doubt look great. They are actually 3d now. Unlike 
 that garbage Quake I fed us. There is a huge variety of enemies, making a huge variety of enemy 
 models. They are all as detailed as the last. The guns look great, dont' you even ask about that. 
 Level design can get repetitive but nothing that'll make you go insane. Be warned though, there 
 is very little replay value in Quake II. The game gets quite repetitive like all Id games, but 
 this one makes it last for one good play through. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gta11
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 5, 2006 6:12 am PT
Review:  Quake 2 For PC.
  
  With my terribly old and weak computer, I've tried many games that would work well and fun to play, 
 but it's usually one or the other. That's when I finally decided to play Quake II, I'm definitely 
 glad I used the ten dollars for that game. 
  
  To keep it short, the story isn't the greatest around, basically you're trying to get out of an 
 abandoned military base... okay, maybe not so abandoned, after all, there are those giant monsters 
 trying to rip you apart. Maybe not the greatest story, but who cares? The game has many other strong 
 points. 
  
  Gameplay : I usually don't play shooters for the multi player, I always try out the single player 
 or death matches first, so I'll just skip the single player gameplay and go to single palyer then 
 the multi player. Somewhat more linear than the original one in the respect that you have to complete 
 all the areas in a specified sequence, but in some respects even less linear in the fact that there 
 is some backtracking, and you'll often find yourself revisiting old areas where you have opened 
 up new sections.
  
  Gameplay is similar - grab weapons and shoot down the enemies. You get items such as quad damage 
 once again, but this time they can often be saved for when you most need them. This helps a lot 
 as you can turn on quad damage when you come to a section that is giving you problems.
  
  Enemies are inventive, ranging from simple footsoldiers to more advanced cyborgs. The giant tank 
 guys (which I'm pretty sure are a direct rip from the Terminator movies) look impressive, but can 
 actually be killed very easily. There are also bizarre parasitic creatures that try to infect you 
 with viruses.
  
  Another improvement is the vast range of items that you have to collect in the game. Instead of 
 simply, "you got the gold/silver key", you have to collect items such as computer discs and insert 
 them in the right places. On one level you have to even find the severed head of someone the aliens 
 have killed so you can use it for a retina scan. All of this climaxes in an impressive fight that, 
 unlike the original, you can't kill by pure chance.
  
  The secret areas are also back, as well as a few nifty secret levels that are very fun to hunt 
 down and play.
  
  If there was one thing I could change, it would be the system for using items such as quad damage 
 and the rebreather, because you have use various button keys to activate them, and they get activated 
 straight away when you do so, so you might occasionally do it unintentionally; for example, the 
 A key allows you to look down, and is located directly next to the Q key (to use Quad Damage) , 
 and I have frequently found myself getting angry and restarting areas because I hit the Q button 
 ever so gently and wasted a Quad Damage; some sort of "Are you sure you want to use this item?" 
 screen would maybe have helped.
  
  Overall, gameplay is excellent and makes the original look almost mediocre by comparison.
  
 
  Now this is where the fun begins. Pretty much like any other first-person shooter, but this is 
 probably one of the first shooters that created the FPS genre, this game defines what multiplayer 
 should be like, assuming you're not the person that likes realism or likes to strategize every 
 move you make because Quake II is pretty much the opposite of that, you just run into a level and 
 mindlessly kill anything that breathes (or that doesn't breathe if you like mutilating the already 
 mutilated corpses) . 
  
  And if your skills don't rise up to those online, you can always download bots and such to practice 
 because, unlike Counter-Strike, the bots are great because all they do is run around firing whatever 
 they can get their hands on. 
  
  Plus, this game does not need a super computer that can do everything but cook your breakfast to 
 work well, my computer just down right sucks, but this game plays very smoothly. 
  
  All in all, online or offline (bots) , this game is great in all aspects. 
  
  Graphics : Okay, 
 maybe not the greatest graphics compared to most games now where you start to doubt the non-reality 
 of the game, but the graphics are far from terrible. Like I previously said, my computer sucks, 
 so the graphics of this game seem very good for a game my computer can play. 
  
  Regardless, the bloody entrails of the victims of your rocket launcher still look good... until 
 you see your own character explode into bite-size chunks that fly into the next continent because 
 you were busy congratulating yourself. 
  
  
  Sound : The sounds aren't anything to drool over, just explosions, gunshots, and screams from your 
 dying enemies. Not amazing, but not horrible. 
  
  There is no reason for you not to play this game again after you buy it. Even if you manage to 
 beat single player, you've got multiplayer where you will find people who can mow everyone down 
 with a puny blaster with their eyes closed, then you have to push yourself to be able to beat that 
 person. Your opponents are endless on multiplayer, just look on the internet for some IP addresses 
 where everyone goes to to play. And, even if you've beaten everyone on every server you still have 
 mods, they are modifications to the game that may include new weapons, levels, etc. Quake II has 
 boundless ways to play the game, you'll never get tired of it. 
  
  Buy, this game now is only ten to fifteen bucks now, just look for Quake II in discount bins or 
 used games stores, you're bound to find it somewhere, it may take a while, but it's worth it. Do 
 not let this game pass you, just give it a try, you won't be sorry. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xenonixlv
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 25, 2006 7:40 am PT
Review:  Let's start with Quake 1, which i think didn't have a story. There were soldiers , monsters and 
 zombies that fought against you, but were totaly friendly to each other.
  
  In Quake II I liked the story. And another thing that I noticed while playing was that sometimes 
 the enemies fighted each other, when an enemy accidentally hit another type of enemy and then they 
 started to fight each other.
  
  Then came Quake III and Quake IV which were like unreal tournament, but at least unreal tournament 
 had story.
  
  I think Quake II was the last real Quake.
  
  Graphics were great for an old game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hiitzme
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 27, 2006 3:08 pm PT
Review:  Quake II is an excellent game. The Ultimate First Person Shooter. All the way through, this game 
 has exciting levels and action-packed fighting. The game has an awesome soundtrack to make some 
 of the less exciting battles 90% better! Although other games such as Half-Life, and others, were 
 more of a mile-stone in gaming history, this game deserves a play. 
  
  From zombies with guns to garguantuan man-tanks, this game has it all. IF you turn up the graphics 
 it can actually look pretty good for a 1997 game. And with 38 different maps the fun last for a 
 while. To go along with some of the good games released a few years back, there is a slew of MODs 
 for Quake II, some of which are here at gamespot!
  
  Overall this is an excellent game and worth a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Games
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 17, 2006 4:06 pm PT
Review:  Quake II is a mission game. Like Quake 4 but in a old version. You play with Grunt. With difference 
 with Quake III is that it has more weapons to chose and maps are harder to play which makes it 
 fun. Eventhough when you play it the graphics are bad welll they are not that bad as well. Missions 
 are very fun as well as the multyplayer the difference with Quake III is that there is an arena 
 so they is more action when in Quake II is only trying to find the weapons and camp you enemy is 
 a bit more strategic than Quake III. In comparison with Quake I there is none, Quake I is a very 
 poor game as well as the graphics. In Quake II is recomended to use Rocket and Rail gun. BFG not 
 so much unless you are near the objective. The other weapons are easy to handle and easy to get, 
 there accuracy of the other weapons is good but if you want to be a QuakeII player must learn to 
 play usually with Rocket, Rail gun and secondary hyper blaster BFG, only if you want to die by 
 your own shoot, not recommended atleast by me. 
  
  Enjoy Quake II is a good game to play with freinds and easy to learn although you need good memory 
 to remeber Quake II maps and types of guns and how to use them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fistfull_of_me
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 16, 2006 8:41 pm PT
Review:  When i first heard of Quake, it didn't really appeal yo me as I was still in my Sim City phase. 
 Yet, I have come to like the Quake series, and number two definately lives up to the name. Solid 
 gameplay, sharp graphcs and excellent sound all come together to make a very violent, but entertaining 
 game.
  
  The graphics here are nothing special, but they are very sharp and help make the game playable. 
 Some parts of the game can get a bit annoying as their too dark, and you easly get lost and start 
 back tracking. While that can get annoying, you can still find your way around it with patience. 
 The guns look pretty good, again, nothing special. The shotgun looks pretty good, as does the rest 
 of your arsonal. The water actually looks really good for a reasonably old game.
  
  The gameplay is great, the levels are big and spread out, there are a lot of secret areas to find 
 and there are plenty of side missions to keep you busy. Depending on what difficulty you choose, 
 there will be varying amounts of enemies trying to kill you. One thing i noticed about the enemies 
 was, they have a few different death animations, and most of the time, they will still shoot you 
 even with their head blown off.
  
  The sound is definately the best part of this game, there is heavy rock music to keep you in the 
 killing mood, and the weapons sound really sweet. Most of the enemies will grunt at you, but thats 
 okay, i didn't expect them to recite the ten commandments or something. Everything sounds really 
 really good, the water splashes, the enemies groan when they're down, and there's a great musical 
 score to with it.
  
  The game has a multiplayer option with it to keep it interesting. But other than that, theres really 
 not that much other than the great story mode. Everything in this game comes together to make for 
 an entetaining ride to say the least. It definately shouldn't be looked over for a second. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yamiyugi12345
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 14, 2006 11:19 am PT
Review:  Quake 2 is amaing in many ways. It is full of cool original features and storyline. You play as 
 a marine sent to destroy the "big gun" which is the ultimate weapon of mass destruction for the 
 "strogg" which are the enemy. The game is hard, but that is better than a boring easy game!
  
  The game has many cool weapons, each with it's unique firepower. None of the weapons are useless 
 (apart from the standard blaster which SUCKS!) The super shotgun, although not the best weapon, 
 is my favourite as it is reliable, powerful, and makes a satisfying BOOM! The enemies are cleverly 
 spaced out to suit the situation. None of the levels have ridiculously large numbers of enemies; 
 harder levels focus on the quality over quantity of the enemies. Sometimes, it is annoying when 
 you are fighting tough enemies with the railgun, then you are forced to waste some shots on the 
 weaker enemies because changing takes too long.
  
  The ai is ok. Most of the enemies just attack relentlessly without considering the fact that they 
 are just about to be "gibbified". However, most of the enemies are mass produced mutants whose 
 only purpose is to kill, so it doesn't really matter if they die.
  
  The maps are cleverly designed. Rather than in the original quake where you follow one path blasting 
 the hell out of anything that moves, you have to get keys and deactivate defenses before you can 
 proceed.
  
  To enjoy this game in its prime, you should run it using the new knightmare engine. This is available 
 for free from many download sites, and fully utilises top spec graphics cards to provide trilinear 
 texture filtering and vastly improved particle effects.
  
  This game has a really cool music soundtrack that gets you in the mood for blasting those mutants! 
 It has the best music in any game I've ever played.
  
  Bottom line: This game will become as loved as doom for sure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Horus92
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 13, 2006 10:23 am PT
Review:  Quake II, for me, is the best game of the Quake series. It is not hard to play and when you start, 
 it is almost impossible to stop playing. It is simple yet great. The missions are smart, filled 
 with enemies, secrets and the adrenaline of dodging the bullets crashing beside you is impressive. 
 The variety of weapons and mods of playing make it never boring, and though the graphics could 
 be better (It was created in 1997, come on!) and the sound more improved, Quake II is a great game, 
 and you cant but laugh as you see your opponents blow up as your BFG beam reaches them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jmm0070
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 12, 2006 6:38 pm PT
Review:  Quake II is one of the best first person shooters games ever released for the pc. quake I, the 
 old one, is also great, and both of this games combine to make an AWESOME, EXCELLENT, REALLY LARGE 
 AND WONDERFUL (AND FRIGHENING) :) SINGLE PLAYER. This game has a very large multi player, and it 
 can even be extended by getting some mission packs (in separated cds) , which gives you a whole 
 new variety of weapons, monsters, and missions. The graphics are great, but they could be better. 
 There is (just as in quake 3) a great variety of mods to download, including action q2, which imitates 
 real life mafia vs something figthing, or capture the flag, or rocket arena 2 (great) , and more. 
 but if you want to play the (shurely) best multiplayer first-person shooter ever, play quake III 
 arena online capture the flag, or clan arena or... well that's another game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gta4ya
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 11, 2006 3:54 pm PT
Review:  This game kicks ass as it is fun, you'll be pooping it in 10 years from now! The game starts after 
 you crash your only life pod in the Outer Base with only your side-arm, The Blaster. What makes 
 this game cool and greatly detailed is partly the computer since it shows secrets, kills, goals, 
 mission objectives, and even the difficulty in case you forget! Im giving this game an excellent 
 score because of these following things:
  
  Gameplay: Just like Halo except kind of an older version and just as fun for the number of weapons, 
 the only thing thats cooler is the weapons and how you can hold on to all your weapons where in 
 Halo you can only carry two which is more realistic but I think Halo and Quake2 match even though 
 Quake is older lol.
  
  Graphics: Good for how old it is but nothin to todays games but its excellent for how old it is 
 I mean its greatly detailed and the gore and blood looks cool.
  
  sound: Excellent, when you kill a monster the monster groans like its real! Definetly earns good 
 points!
  
  Like I said it totally rulz! The game is challenging too in some parts of it like when theres 2 
 tanks (the strongest guys in the game except for the tank commanders which you only see like 8 of 
 em) charging at you and soon as you know in the next door there are 2 tank commanders. The boss fights 
 are challenging but fun too! Totally recommended for FPS fans like me! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GSZX
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 30, 2006 3:04 pm PT
Review:  Lemme guess, since i compared the first Quake to Doom you think I'm gonna compare this game to 
 Doom 2. Well, YOU'RE WRONG! I never even played Doom 2. This game blows the previous Quake out 
 of the water! Improved graphics, gameplay, and game depth. Let's get more in depth about the categories. 
 The visuals are kinda two-sided. On one hand, some of the weapons have good models and light reflections. 
 One the other hand, some of the weapons look like their made of freaking concrete! The lighting 
 is crazy. Some rooms are so bright it's blinding and some rooms are so dark you're firing you weapons 
 for light, causing you to waste ammo. The gameplay as I said earlier is also an improvement from 
 the last game. The enemies are bigger, badder, and are sneaky little bastards. Some of them will 
 shoot you while they're down. And you can tweak the controls to where you can use the mouse to 
 aim (Remember that wasn't common back then.) . Unfortunately, the later weapons completely overshadow 
 the previous weapons. Which kind of limits you're choices for taking on the enemy. The stages are 
 a pain in the @$$. It's very hard to not get lost. And sometimes you're spending 20 minutes just 
 trying to find a freaking switch. The story is not about the enemy codenamed: Quake. This time, 
 it's about the Earth being invaded by an alien race called the Strogg. You have to go and kick 
 their @$$es. It's not much of a story but, hey, you don't play first person shooters for the story. 
 Or do you? The bottom line is, even though this game has some problems, it still is a must have 
 in any FPS fan's collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mutantmo
Rating: 10
Date: May 30, 2006 8:15 am PT
Review:  To be completely honest my initial intrest with this game's release was one person: Rob Zombie. 
 I was fourteen and already an avid fan of his and Trent Reznor's music (Trent was involved with 
 the first Quake.) Rob had very little to do with Quake 2; actually he only collaborated on one 
 song with Sonic Mayhem the original musicians orchestrating the metal-industrial fury that is the 
 Quake 2 soundtrack. Bottom line; one PC game changed the way I gamed on Personal Computers forever. 
 Adding an essential multiplayer component and certainly replayable singleplayer exeperience.
  Quake 2 being the icon it is had one notable flaw , it has one of the most useless weapons in a 
 FPS ever... No I'm not talking about the BFG. The regular old blaster you start off with in the 
 beginning of the game is pretty much worthless. Especially after you've encountered stronger guns 
 in the singleplayer game. This worthless pea-shooter is given to you when you respawn in multiplayer 
 although some servers fix that.
  As all classic Id games we have the usual setup: Seminal story, excellent gameplay balance, and 
 for that time the upper hand in graphics. I remember the fury of 3Dfx's Voodoo handling Quake maps. 
 Loading custom player models with ease from the once active MOD community which helped demonstrate 
 versatility. Some Rail Arena servers still run Id singleplayer maps and custom ones today even.
 
  With Quake 4 being out already (a direct sequel to this game) the story arch of this game is continued. 
 So what is the story? Well a certain alien race really needed the physical edge on conquering other 
 galaxies. To do this they must rise above their ethereal machine origin and merge with what ever 
 hapless race that happens to run into them: us. So the Stroggos (pronounced: STROGG) harvest us 
 and merge our flesh and body parts as their own. Its time to launch an offensive. This game is 
 the start of that offense. Quake 4 supposedly continues on with that.
  With the story out of the way and a guaranteed arsenal Id style weapons lets go for the jugular: 
 The once blossoming mulitplayer community and MODs.
  Although Half Life really should be credited for coining the term MOD and the trend itself. Quake 
 2 helped support these communities with the form of "clans". Having cryptic symbols next to your 
 handle to which affiliated you with fellow players was not un common. Some clans even had their 
 own websites. Anyways that was back then and we are here now in 2006: people still play Quake 2. 
 Games like Quake 2 are examples of games aging well and having a special place in the heart of 
 fans. Just look at those freaks who continuously re-play FF7.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: evil_govi
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 22, 2006 1:46 pm PT
Review:  At school we had Quake II and that is where I first played it. I had fun fighting with my own friends 
 in class and the teacher too. ^_^. We ust to go and play it every monday or thursday in our school 
 break. Our teacher ust to download us characters for us to choose. He got us Tomb Rider and Sonic 
 and many many more. Quake II has good graphics and great gameplay . The background music is great 
 too. Quake II is much fun online than playing by yourslef or vs with your computer. Quake II have 
 Great guns!!!
  GREAT GAMEPLAY, GOOD GRAPHICS, GREAT BACKGROUND MUSIC, GREAT GUNS, ONLINE. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stevenscott14
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 20, 2006 2:01 pm PT
Review:  Quake II, at its lowest point, is an intense experience. At its highest, Quake II is simply near 
 the pinnacle of PC gaming - an all-out assault on the senses filled with barrel-chattering action 
 and non-stop, thrill-a-minute challenge. It's one of those things I like to call incredible... 
 there's just an unquestionable adrenaline rush when you're shooting enemies with a railgun, strafing 
 all over the place like a headless chicken, and hoping to god that the enemy on the receiving end 
 of your gun doesn't chop you up into scarlet mush. And then, afterwards, he'll probably feed it 
 to the unfortunate prisoners. 
  
  Quake II doesn't give much backstory before launching you into the world of the anonymous protagonist. 
 Basically, the human race is at war with the Strogg - an army of biomechanical mutated freaks that 
 range from ordinary grunts to strange malformed aliens and grotesquely organic tanks. After the 
 arranged assault on the home planet Stroggos backfires, you soon realize that you're all alone, 
 with barely anybody to help you wipe out the thousands of Strogg out for your blood. And this is 
 a sense of overpowering fear like no other - for a game as old as this, Quake II does wonders for 
 your emotions. It certainly gives you a sense that you're outnumbered, and there's nowhere you 
 can hide from a clamouring alien force. 
  
  And that's basically it - in the game, Quake II gives no cutscenes to add to the plot. Between 
 each major section of the game, you're given a quick reconnaissance view of the area and a quick 
 mission briefing, and then you're launched headlong into the area in question. Your character is 
 never addressed by anybody, so thus you never learn his name - there will be no emotional attachment 
 to the main character.
  
  Actually, by rendering the lead character nameless, then the game sorta immerses you in the game 
 a little bit more. It's hard to explain, but without a personality in the background of this strange 
 character, then it leaves an empty space, and it feels like it's YOU who's murdering waves of Strogg, 
 just for the stray chance of survival. 
  
  Now I'll move onto the core gameplay. Simply put, Quake II's main mechanics are straightforward. 
 The controls are the same as every other FPS, the WASD formation to move around and the mouse to 
 look. Firing a weapon in this game is where the real excitement is contained, however - there's 
 a sense of satisfaction upon shooting a Strogg to bits. When your chosen bullet, rocket, shell, 
 slug, or cell comes into contact with an enemy, there's just an unexplainable burst of enjoyment... 
 a sadistic rush of violent bliss. And it makes you want so much more. Hell, shooting the crap out 
 of everything in sight is like gaming chocolate. 
  
  Quake II is also a very fast and furious game. The game is quick and your reflexes need to be swift 
 to ensure your own survival. Some of the later Strogg will dodge your every fury like wildfire, 
 and you will also need to be agile to dodge the grenades and missiles they'll fire your way. Its 
 speed also means that there's minimal tactics involved. They'll be no duck and cover movements, 
 or sneaky manuoevres - the enemies won't tolerate any clever stuff. The Strogg AI is deliberately 
 aggressive. If you even try to hide behind a crate, then they'll just simply run into your sights 
 and shoot like crazed psychopaths. If you try hiding from them if they've already seen you creep 
 into view, then they'll just shout out a robotic warcry and root you out of your little cranny. 
 So it goes without saying that Quake II is undeniably a run-'n'-gun game... although it's as good 
 as run-'n'-gun will ever get. 
  
  It doesn't help that Quake II's environments are generally very cramped and narrow. It's unquestionably 
 a linear game - there's only one path through the levels. Although there are secret areas and unlockables 
 to find, the missions are always straightforward. And while Quake II is a corridor shooter, I must 
 stress it again - it's as good as on-rails shooting will ever get. 
  
  Quake II also has a wide range of weapons to mutilate the Strogg with. You'll start with an underpowered 
 rechargable blaster, which is your standard weapon and can never run out of ammunition. You'll 
 progress through the game wielding all sort of gruesome firepower, such as the Super Shotgun (yes, 
 it's as good as it sounds) the Railgun (second best weapon ever, behind the Gravity Gun :P) and 
 the BFG (I believe this means Big Freaking Gun, but I'm not going to mention the name I usually 
 call it, hehe) The variety in the guns completely wipes out any form of repetition I might have 
 found, because there's always a vast combination of weapons to kill enemies with. 
  
  And to add to the formula, Quake II is also proud of its selection of powerups. Each of them can 
 prove to be wonderful in certain situations. There's the famous Quad Damage pickup, which of course 
 amplifies any harm you usually cause by 4 and then uses this awesome power to reduce anything in 
 the area into unintelligible red particles. Other highlights are the Rebreather and of course the 
 Health and Armour, because there's a hell of a lot of skilled Strogg out there begging for your 
 death. 
  
  The enemies in Quake II are hideous creatures, and all of them are equally memorable. The Strogg 
 have some serious malformations, especially when you've pumped a few bullets into them. Some of 
 them can even instil a sense of fear into your hearts. There's flying drones, grunts, fat ones 
 with machineguns, grenade-launching tall ones, tanks, Iron Maidens, those soul-sapping dogs, floating 
 miniature robots, and of course the nefarious Big Gun. They are all equally cold-hearted... in 
 later levels you'd be amazed at what they do to prisoners. And it's quite entertaining when you 
 get a go at reducing prisoners to slush as well... but that's another story. The fact remains that 
 the Strogg are an unforgettable bunch of deformed biomechanical warriors and it's a pleasure having 
 to fight against them. 
  
  Now I'm going to talk about the graphics for a while. You may be surprised at my immediate 9, but 
 take into consideration the age of the game. Now they don't hold up very well, but back in 1997 
 Quake II really was something special. The character models in particular are great and their animation 
 is fluid. The environments all look kinda apocalyptic... Stroggos is a foreboding place, with ravaged 
 industrial areas and horrible torture chambers scattered all over the place.
  
  Explosions are almost laughable nowadays, but this is coming from an age when explosions were blocks 
 of lurid orange colour. To top it all, the gun models are excellent, the textures are detailed 
 and the sky is possibly the most uninviting shade of fiery canvas I've ever seen... ID do an exceptional 
 job of making Stroggos seem like a horrific place. 
  
  The audio is even better... for a 9-year-old game, Quake II is stellar. The soundtrack is definitely 
 not for most people, but personally I found the blend of heavy metal and weird ambient music to 
 really suit the dark atmosphere contained in the game. 
  
  In some of the quieter areas every squeak or hideous noise will make you jump out of your seat 
 in a blend of horror and adrenaline, jerking around frantically to see what the source of noise 
 is. All in all, you'll definitely get the most of the game with a good old surround sound system... 
 and play it in the dark for an experience not unlike Doom. 
  
  If you still haven't played this game, after 9 years of living without it, I would ask you... what 
 on earth have you been missing? I found the game for - no joke - 1.50 in my local games shop, 
 and is that too much to ask? One of the best games ever can be picked up for about 5% of the price 
 of a recent release. In conclusion, I would give Quake II a 9.4 - that's one of my highest scores 
 ever, something you won't see very often. It's an absolutely incredible shooter - something that 
 has to be seen to be believed. If you take into consideration this game's age, then you will be 
 completely blown away at how advanced it is. Intense, visceral, thrilling, dark, atmospheric, frightening, 
 hectic, frantic, and explosive, all in the same breath. Unmissable. 
  
  -stevenscott14 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gunman357
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 19, 2006 12:15 am PT
Review:  Quake 2 is supposed to be a sequel to quake (duH) but it does'nt have anything to do with it's 
 predecessor, therefore, it created a whole new adventure.
  
  At the time Quake 2 was made, it was state-of-the-art, and an instant hit.
  
  Quake 2 puts you 
 in the shoes of a marine sent to the planet STROGG to eliminate all the opposition that wants the 
 human race destroyed, from the start, this plan goes wrong. Every single life pod of your team that 
 was sent to planet STROGG was attacked by the STROGG forces, therefore destroyed...... But you end 
 up being a lucky survivor.
  
  There are 10 various weapons that you recieve throughout the game.
  
  Blaster
  Shotgun
 
  Super shotgun
  machinegun
  chaingun
  grenade launcher
  rocket launcher
  hyperblaster
  railgun
  and the BFG10K.......... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: timbo0827
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 13, 2006 4:09 pm PT
Review:  This is a classic game. If you disliked the Doom games then you will definitly dislike Quake mostly 
 because they are pretty much the same game. But if you do like Doom then Quake II might be your 
 next favorite game. This is an old game but it is pretty fun. You don't take cover because this 
 is an intense shooter. The violence is pretty intense but there isn't really much blood. I found 
 this game for only $10 and I am lucky I got it. If you have played the original Quake then you 
 should check out Quake II. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 22111993
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 13, 2006 7:32 am PT
Review:  I love it when friends send me older games that I missed the first time around. Sometimes they 
 are just too outdated to be fun or too buggy to be worth dealing with. Other times they're a nice 
 diversion from the current games I play. For the last week or so Quake II has been a fun straightforward 
 shootout for me.
  
  I played only the single player, but learned btw that a friend of mine still uses Quake II at LAN 
 parties sometimes because of it's simple fun design and smooth running. 
  
  It's been almost a year since Quake II was reviewed here and I felt like a game that still performs 
 solidly and has a nicely designed interface that still does the job well deserves one more thumbs 
 up.
  I was able to quickly configure my keybinds and jump into the fight. Yes, it's pretty conventional 
 gameplay by today's standards but it kept me thinking. One characteristic of design was a nice 
 variety of architecture. I wasn't just moving from one box to the next, I had to keep scanning 
 my surroundings and look closely at the features to see where I was vulnerable. 
  
  I like to look around at levels a bit without dwelling too long, so I didn't discover all of the 
 secret areas (f1 always brings up your objectives and shows you such information as how many of 
 the secret areas you still haven't found) . I'm actually tempted to replay for the fun of finding 
 a few more of those areas. 
  
  Not a lot of plot here, but enough integrity of design that a person with a good imagination can 
 get nicely immersed. The older reviews still hold true that part of the pleasure of this game is 
 that it runs fast and smooth. It always saved and loaded quickly. It did crash on me once, but 
 that is really very minor considering the numerous long sessions played, and that I never had to 
 pay attention to going back into options to tweak anything or look for a patch. How many games 
 have you said that about in the past year?
  
  Newer games, even first person shooters, have indeed added some clever innovations since this game 
 came out, but this one nonetheless shows the workmanship of a good game that created the conventions 
 that the others were built upon.
  Even if I reviewed this a couple of years ago I don't think I'd have offered a 10 for graphics, 
 but Quake II uses what was available quite well and I didn't consider the graphics to impede the 
 enjoyment, so it gets a thumbs up and a 4.
  
  Sound:
  Not much remarkable, but not bad either. As things go in fps' much of it is repetitive, but that 
 too is pretty much in character for this genre.
  
  I'd give it a 3.5 for sound and prefer to err on the high side (4) , since this nice old game doesn't 
 deserve for my late review to bring down it's high marks.
  
  Actually, if I were younger I'd probably be impressed by the eeriness of those wailing p. o. w.'s 
 begging to be put out of their misery, and possibly by the not so subtle orgasmic moans of the 
 war goddesses.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Advocate
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 8, 2006 3:14 pm PT
Review:  Quake II firmly established itself as one of the greatest games ever made. The game was a very 
 welcome and addictive sequal to the one of the best games of 1996, QUAKE. 
  
  Quake II brought with it a revolutionary new method of game play that just surpassed all of the 
 other games on the market. The graphics were great, even by todays standard, the sound was superb, 
 the game play was so addictive that many employers of the time had to deal with an epidemic of 
 workers calling in sick.
  
  The multiplayer aspect of the game was just beyond words. It squarely falls into the Oh My God 
 catagory. Co-Op play and death match set the standard of thrill ride to new levels of high. Playing 
 QUAKE II was one of the best experiences of my life. I would tell my girl friend of the time to 
 take my credit cards and go shopping just so that I could have the house to myself to play death 
 match with my friends. 
  
  Even today I still have QUAKE II on three PC's. I play the game with my nephews all the time and 
 they are dirtly little cheaters.... shooting me in the back to get access to the goodies during 
 a co-op game. They love the game as much as we do, and that says a lot about how well the game 
 has endured over the years. 
  
  Simply put, Quake II is a gold metal game twice over. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grasu
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 2, 2006 10:28 am PT
Review:  The first Quake was as important to the FPS genre as Doom or Half-Life. It was a game that was 
 mind numbingly fast paced, it had tons of weapons, boat loads of nightmarish monsters and the best 
 multiplayer action the world had ever seen.
  
  Quake 2 made its PC debut a little over 1 year after it's older brother. Behind its state of the 
 art graphics, and multitude of new weapons, the same genius that made Quake into such a phenomenon 
 laid dormant.
  
  The true merits of Quake 2 can never be seen while playing the game off line. A true appreciation 
 of what this game did for gaming can only be seen when opening up Gamespy and going at it in Quake 
 2. This game is so crucial to multiplayer gaming that words can hardly describe its contributions.
 
  
  Graphics: 9/10
  
  Few older games can pride themselves with graphical immortality. Quake can, not only do that, but 
 it has proven to the world that its engine can last the test of time for decades! To this day, 
 if you've ever played Half-Life (and there are millions of people who do so every day) or if you've 
 ever played Anachronox (2001) you've seen the Quake 2 engine in action. This game is to graphical 
 engines as the Bible is to Christians.
  
  That being said, Quake 2 is not graphically time-robust. The textures and polygons used in the 
 original are laughable by today's standards and the lighting and shading effects can only be taken 
 seriously by those who haven't seen Half-Life or Quake 3 in action. These graphical nuances don't 
 really detract from the game very much though. Unlike in FF7 (or other games whose engines get 
 in the way of gameplay) the Quake 2 engine will never make it cumbersome for the player to game.
 
  
  The engine can be bumped up to huge resolutions and the art design is second to none, combining 
 the grotesqueness of Doom with the post-apocalyptic vision of Quake or Fallout. The levels are 
 huge, and while the tile sets don't do them justice all the time, they are varied enough not to 
 become boring over the games considerable length. The weapons are all very well designed and sport 
 complex animation along with some very good lighting for the time.
  
  Sound: 10/10
  
  Nine Inch Nails' fast paced soundtrack is the only thing that you need to know about Quake 2's 
 sound. The superb soundtrack composed by one of the best industrial metal groups of all time transposes 
 the urgency of the game through sound like no other before it.
  
  Thanks in part to the full use of surround sound and the masterfully woven sound effects; the music 
 makes Quake 2 an auditory nirvana. It's impossible to comprehend now-a-days what one felt when 
 the booming soundtrack of Quake 2 surrounded them from all sides, piercing their ears with superb 
 music and monstrous sound effects. From the lowly gun sound to the growl of the demons this is 
 one game that did as much for sound as it did for graphics.
  
  A truly amazing auditory achievement.
  
  Gameplay: 7/10
  
  Quake 2's strongest point is 
 also its weakest: Gameplay. Quake 2 doesn't bring anything entirely new to the Quake formula, it 
 hardly adds enough material to be considered "revolutionary" but it is, essentially, Quake and 
 that makes all the difference.
  
  Out of the few improvements that Quake 2 brings to the Quake series the single player campaign 
 is by far the most important of them. The campaign is actually story-based and it has objectives 
 for you to complete, which is something id isn't really know to do. The campaign also has smarter 
 AI and an ingenious level design that has you traveling through the mazes of the facility. The 
 whole story intertwines with this ingenious level and monster design to bestow upon the player 
 an increased sense of fear and tension as he or she goes through the game.
  
  In order to achieve this fear though, monsters are required. The enemies in Quake 2 aren't terribly 
 varied, mostly focusing on soldiers turned zombies and other freaks of nature, but they get the 
 point across quickly. Soldiers used AI patterns that were virtually unseen at the time, as they 
 scurried for help or went around the corner to avoid fire from the player's weapons. Quake 2 could've 
 put the AI to better use though, as the game had no bots or anything of the sort in multiplayer.
 
  
  As one traveled through the levels that id prepared one got this true feeling of accomplishment. 
 The levels in Quake 2 were huge, multileveled and totally interconnected, sprinkled with weapons 
 and power-ups ranging from health, to scuba-gear and the mother of all power-ups: Quake Damage. 
 The levels were also filled with weapons, as you'd expect. The weapons ranged from pistols, to 
 shotguns, to machineguns, to rocket launchers, to the infamous BFG and the Rail gun.
  
  Multiplayer: 10/10
  
  What made Quake 2 a masterpiece though, cannot be found on any list. 
 The combination of all of these items in a frantic multiplayer deathmatch was the ultimate gift 
 that Quake 2 offered to gamers.
  
  The frantic deathmatch rush which was associated with Quake games came back in full force for Quake 
 2. The weapons were the first on the scene to sound the trumpet and begin the new age of multiplayer.
 
  
  As the weapons which now ranged from pistols, that slowly chewed up your life, to grenades that 
 prolonged the volatility of a dead player the weapons in Quake 2 made the balance of multiplayer 
 change once and for all. No longer was the guy with the rocket launcher king of the hill, as you 
 could quickly fill his ass with the hot lead of your submachine gun or the electrifying shock of 
 the rail gun. No longer was camping an option; the speed at which players moved was so great that 
 simply sitting atop a pile of boxes made you a sitting duck.
  
  The maps were ingeniously designed to provide for this. From the frantic deathmatches of small 
 maps to the prolonged hunts of the larger maps the kind of rumble in ones gut as he approached 
 a new corner or turned around to check if he was followed cannot even begin to be described in 
 words. And the maps themselves ranged from enclosed spaces to wide open areas, in which one could 
 simply get shot while going up the elevator.
  
  Of course, there were also power-ups, which made the game even more insane. One can hardly put 
 in words the kind of rush the player felt when the ominous voice echoed "Quake Damage" and everyone 
 in that server was automatically on high alert for the bastard with the Quake and the rail gun. 
 The kind of insane jumping, running and shooting that happened during those sequences will never 
 be repeated again in modern gaming.
  
  Quake 2 also provided support for many players to battle at once. The number of players increased, 
 with patches and the like, and reached a maximum of 32. All of those players could join by simply 
 using the new browser tool called: Quakespy. Internet play was flawless and endless. People played 
 day and night without stopping until their very own eyes bled. The caliber of player that played 
 Quake 2 made it impossible for newbies to get a hang of the game (which was ultimately the game's 
 downfall) but it kept the level of challenge as high as possible and the dullness to zero.
  
  Never again will these feeling flood gamers as they did the first time while playing Quake 
 2.
  
  Overall: 8/10
  
  Quake 2 was a multiplayer game, it's ultimate victory and it's ultimate demise. As Quake grew old, 
 Half-Life replaced it and now this game is but a relic.
  
  Even with the many mods that first appeared using the Quake 2 engine, even with the frantic multiplayer, 
 even with all the great weapons, these were one-time feelings. Feelings each game, with better 
 graphics and more weapons, gave us and we all quickly moved looked the other way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: woef
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 21, 2006 9:03 am PT
Review:  Quake 2: The game that i used too play.
  Im gonna tell ya some things a bout quake 2.
  
  Gameplay:
  Good gameplay, lots of weapons, enemies and maps.
  Bosses are cool too.
  The game 
 runs smooth and look great.
  
  Graphics:
  Good overall graphics, with some minor problems.
  such as some enmies dont look very good.
 
  
  Value:
  Good value, both multiplayer and single player.
  I just love the single player maps.
  
  Variety:
  Very good variety between all the stuff 
 (enemies, weapons) .
  
  Online:
  Good and smooth, you can use all the weapons in game and thats just plain fun.
  
  Sounds:
 
  Enemies sound cool and freaky and the weapons sound good too.
  
  That was my review.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GizmoSimo
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 10, 2006 10:37 pm PT
Review:  *** This comment may contain spoilers ***
  
  Quake 2 is in my opinion, the best game in ID Software's legendary series of first person shooters 
 that pit players in bizarre worlds against even more bizarre enemies, and featuring tons of weapons. 
 Quake 2 has nothing to do with the first Quake or Quake 3, it's a sequel in name only. The story 
 is your usual human vs. alien plot. In an unknown future, an alien race called the Strogg, grotesque 
 alien warriors constructed of bloody flesh and steel, invade Earth. In their invasion, they use 
 humans as food and parts to process into Strogg. The United States Marine Corps mounts an invasion 
 of Stroggos, the Strogg home planet, to destroy the core of the Strogg. You were one of the many 
 Marines to be sent in on the invasion. But as the Marine "drop pods" were sent into Stroggos, something 
 went terribly wrong. A hidden Strogg defense, an EMP, brings the invasion to a crashing halt. Your 
 drop pod ends up crashing into a remote military installation somewhere on Stroggos. Armed only 
 with a "Blaster" sidearm, your mission is to destroy the Strogg war machines, at all costs... The 
 game is set in the military installations of Stroggos, the warehouses, the barbaric prisons, freakish 
 "factories" and laboratories. The levels are complete with large numbers of crates stacked up, 
 vents, environmental hazards, etc. Some of the levels, are especially memorable with the grotesque 
 imagery. Insane POWs, torture machines, and other such things. The imagery boils the blood, motivating 
 the player to destroy the Strogg. The enemies are the freakish Strogg, disgusting hybrids of flesh 
 and steel. There are a large number of enemies, varying in toughness, including bosses. As with 
 any Quake game, you have a variety of weapons, ranging from shotguns, machine guns, rocket launchers, 
 grenades, laser guns, and even the mighty BFG, and more. The graphics may seem aged by current 
 standards, but are passable. The sound features distinctive environmental sounds, gunshot effects, 
 enemy sounds, radio chatter, etc. There is also music, industrial/metal songs that go along well 
 in the heat of battle. Despite it's age, Quake 2 is a worthy shooter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 00chaos8
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 7, 2006 9:12 pm PT
Review:  The only thing that this game didn't do well is that it wasn't a sequel at all from the first one. 
 I mean they have a way different storyline. Which that quake 2 does have a better storyline than 
 the original. But that's not what makes the game good. It was the great graphics, the variety of 
 weapons in the game and the gameplay. The reason I keep playing the game is that it was fun, wanted 
 to find new weapons through the game. I mean who doesn't like the BFG or the mini gun or the hyperblaster. 
 Anyways, quake II is a successful shooter to the quake series, despite if it was a different sequel. 
 Quake II really changed from the first quake, yet it still not disappointing which that I found 
 surprising. I highly recommend this game to people that collect quake or just like playing old 
 school games. Back then, I would of said it should be recommended to everyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lord_Saddler200
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 7, 2006 3:53 pm PT
Review:  + the best graphics to hit the computer in 1997 or somethin, the explosions and lighting in this 
 game is top notch its way better than the FPS that came out in that year or later, and stuff
  + the sound is great, all the voice acting and stuff is really nive to hear, the guns sound really 
 good and all the other junk in the game
  - no one plays multiplayer anymore
  - its too easy at times
  + load times aint that long 
  - it gets repetitive quik, not much 
 variety in the weopons and the enimies aint that smart at times.
  + the enimies r quite creative and when they die it looks nice.
  
  THE END 
::::::

::::::
UserName: differentiation
Rating: 8.1
Date: Dec 26, 2005 10:31 am PT
Review:  Quake II is a game more for the fans of the series rather than for casual FPS gamers. It is an 
 improvement over the 1st game, and lays down some revolutionary stuff for future FPS back in the 
 day. Some of the noteable things is the level design and enemy AI. Enemies don't run straight at 
 you, they zig zag and dodge your projectiles. This may not seem like much to the gamer in 2005, 
 but in its day, this was groundbreaking. Gibbing enemies was fun, it adds a new feel when your 
 corpse can get desecrated. It was also the first FPS to have a actual storyline, however loose 
 and uneventful. Each level gives you an objective so there's a sense of purpose, but it's still 
 basically kill them all mentality. ID has gone back to its Quake II roots with Quake IV, which 
 was to have a single player mode rather than Quake III, which was all multiplayer in the multiplayer 
 hype. If you ask me, a single player game, if made spectacular (like Half-Life) , is worth more 
 than any multiplayer game. If you think about it, Quake IV is really the follow up to Quake II.
 
  
  But back to my 1st point, I didn't really feel hyped up about the whole Quake thing. The whole 
 hype was overblown. I didn't like myself in the basement to play this and I didn't run about imagining 
 gibbing folks in public, which the hype had people wanting to do. Quake to me is just another game 
 like Doom, where given a weak story, you just kill whatever you see. The Strogg wasn't hellspawn 
 and the Marines getting killed, I've seen worse. I remember reading a PCGamer magazine in the '90s 
 that said playing Quake II in the dark and hearing the Marines wail gave him goosebumps. The Marines 
 didn't wail, they just moved around and made incoherent noises. Them getting squashed isn't scary. 
 The Strogg wasn't scary, the environments wasn't frightening. However one can tell why ID games 
 since Quake II has been so dark. This game was so gamma challenged, I literally can only play this 
 at night with the lights off. This was very annoying and doesn't add to the scare factor like Doom 
 3 does. The innovative stuff this game came out with in its day still has me wondering where all 
 the hype came from, I just don't see it. I didn't get this game in the '90s either when it first 
 came out, because games like Warcraft and C&C blew it out of the water. That being said, the bottom-line 
 is that it's a classic much like Doom, but don't believe the hype you've heard about in the '90s. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: H0T_SH0T_911
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 23, 2005 9:08 pm PT
Review:  Just a couple of weeks ago i was searching my shelf for a good game to play and alas i found a 
 game called quake 2. Even though i did have to resurect my old pc just to play it since it wont 
 run on a new pc it was totaly worth it but i didnt know it yet. i put it in and to my suprise installed 
 in just over a second. An inovated design that makes it install fast or just lack of memory consuming 
 AI and such in the game? I loaded the campaign on easy just so i could figure out the game first. 
 in a matter of minutes of blasting strogg i was hooked although the graphics in it are abysmal 
 the gameplay is awsome with great level design it really sets the standard for pc shooters. its 
 been almost two weeks and i just finished the game this morning and after i beat the boss i sat 
 back on my chair and just thought to myself "Imagine how hard that would have been without the 
 cheats?" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Astrodude_5
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 3, 2005 7:02 pm PT
Review:  Quake 2 is just a load of fun to play. It's mindless running and gunning. But yet, it's still very 
 fun. Even today, with our new fangled PC's and Xbox 360's.
  
  Ok, I never really got into Quake 2 on my PC. I bought it, played a little, but didn't really play 
 it that much. Then in comes the Xbox 360 I pre-ordered... and I pop in Quake 4, the only game I'll 
 have until Christmas... Unless nobody gets me any games : (. That's why I decided to play Quake 2 
 again. I didn't want to beat Quake 4's single-player too fast. So I'm playing, and I realize how 
 fun it is. Oh yeah, check out my Quake 4 review sometime if you want to hear more about that game.
 
  
  There really isn't much to the gameplay except run-n'-gun and simple little puzzles. But I sure 
 do love opening doors in interesting manners. Simple, but it works. The weapons are cool too.
 
  
  Anyways, the sound and graphics are pretty good. After playing the PC version, it seems as though 
 the Xbox 360 version runs at a higher resolution (even on my standard TV) . It's nice though. Plus, 
 those cheesy explosions are hilarious. The rock music in the background is kind of catchy, and 
 fits well in the game. The other sound effects are pretty good too. They are oddly crisp though. 
 Once again, maybe it's the 360 version. 
  
  Quake 2 is still fun. Bottom line. If you're looking for a classic, id software game (they rock) , 
 I reccomend this game to any FPS gamer looking for a classic, entertaining game. Or, get the 360 
 version of Quake 4, or the special edition PC version of Quake 4. Just play this game. It is one 
 of the best ever. You don't know FPS if you've never played this, Quake 1, Doom 1 or 2, or Wolfenstein. 
 Consider it a FUN history lesson. That doesn't happen too often... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zux2000
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 20, 2006 7:06 am PT
Review:  I right now does a "trilogy review" about the first three Quake games, so here comes my second 
 review...
  
  When Quake 2 came, like usual, Id Software crushed all other FPS games! All Quake clones seemed 
 to be a "stoneage" game...
  Id took the graphic again, to a whole new level, that nobody had seen before... The story mode, 
 in singleplayer was great, but like always, when it comes to multiplayer - who could say isn't 
 was funny? (Maybe those who don't like FPS, or maybe them who was a realy bad player, who just 
 could played in singleplayer with cheats...? Who knows...)
  
  I was totally in "love" with this game, me and my friend buyed it on the release date and started 
 to play some singleplayer, then some hours after
  (I had two PC's in my home that time) we download the multiplayer "DM" maps and after that we became 
 in "trance". We had so fun, and on that way it all was started... I just played and played! I also 
 played a lot of Quake 1 and changed to Quake II time to time... I don't wanna compare Quake 1 with 
 Quake 2, because I see those two games as totally different ones, and not just that Quake 2 is 
 a "upgraded version" of the first one. It's something more, much more.
  
  I have spent so many hours on all the first three Quake games, and every each game is "same but 
 different". I have so many good memories from this game: I can see them front of me, when I rocket 
 jumped on DM1 once and killed four people on one shot! This game was the "next gear" of the FPS 
 history... And I still have it, but don't play it anymore, but all those years I have played it, 
 I will I never forget it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rhett3
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 29, 2005 2:10 pm PT
Review:  sweet game one of the best i know i never get tired of this game. i have the original copy from 
 96 and i don't know how many times i've played it through since. probably bout once a year can't 
 say much for graphics these days but when i came out it was something else entirely one of those 
 games that changes everything!!!!!!! pretty basic storyline but the gameplay is just amazing might 
 have to change control settings to there a little outdated it comes with quake 4 special edition 
 i suggest giving it a try if you can get past the whole graphics thing 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LaplaceSMS
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 26, 2005 4:01 pm PT
Review:  With an amazing soundtrack, and good game play, I became addicted to this game instantly. This 
 was a well made game back then, and it still deserves credit. If I could find this game again, 
 I'd definately buy it, if not for the game, then for the music. The quake series have allways had 
 good soundtracks, this is still my favorite out of the 3 that I've played. There are also quite 
 a few interesting mods for this game to keep you from becoming bored with it. I definately reccomend 
 at least downloading the demo to try it out, but the game is seriously worth buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Atomicfireball
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jun 30, 2005 1:02 pm PT
Review:  When I was writing this review, I was deciding between putting the classifications "Masterpeice" 
 and "Great Multiplayer". I was so close to put "Great Multiplayer", but then I realized how much 
 fun the single player experience was also. So Quake II is an all-around fun game.
  
  
  Gameplay:
  
  My review's intro summed that up for you all. In case your to lazy to read :P 
 I thought the gameplay, on single, and multiplayer kicked ass.
  
  Score: 10/10
  
  
  Graphics:
  
  For the time it was released, It was the best graphics EVER! Nobody has ever seen 
 anthing like this, until quake 2.
  
  Score: 10/10
  
  Sound:
  
  Very good sound, very professional. Other than a few minor glitches, its perfect.
  
  Score: 
 9/10
  
  Value:
  
  Go buy it! Even if it was 250$, I'd still give this game a 10/10.
  And, I no now, that this will be lurking in bargain bins across america. So, Dive in, and grab 
 a copy!
  
  Score: 10/10
  
  Tilt:
  
  What can I say, I had a fun time with this one.
  
  
  Score: 10/10
  
  
  Total Score 
 : 9.9, Superb.
  
  The Good: The whole damn game!
  The Bad: Bad?, there's something bad?!?
  The Ugly: A Strogg's face XD.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 043030
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 6, 2005 8:17 am PT
Review:  There are few ground-breaking landmarks in gaming, revolutionary games that amaze and awe. Classics 
 such as Half-Life, Half-Life 2, Halo and Doom have been bequeathed with this glory, and the Quake 
 II definitely deserves the above-mentioned recognition.
  
  In Quake II you play as an Earth Marine. Earth has been attacked by a vicious cyborg race known 
 as the Strogg, killing and harvesting many of Earth's inhabitants. Now, you and thousands of other 
 Earth Marines lead the counter-attack on the Strogg homeworld, Stroggoss. Unfortunately, many of 
 your comrades are killed within the first few minutes of fighting, so it remains up to you to eliminate 
 the Strogg leader, the Makron.
  
  Quake II is a definitive FPS. Enemies are smart, they duck and dodge bullets, they run for cover 
 and they weave through combat. They are a relentless foe.
  
  During Quake II's storyline you will travel thoughout Stroggoss, seeing many different locations 
 and environments. There are about fifteen different types of enemies, ranging from mutilated attack 
 hounds to cyborg warriors. Most of the enemies are half-organic, half-robotic mutants, and are 
 a thrill to fight.
  
  Gameplay is great in Quake II. Fighting is immersive, you battle in many different environs with 
 a wide range of foes. So, Quake II will last you a long time.
  
  Graphics are a tad dated, not looking as good as they could, but sound compensates for this flaw. 
 Sound effects are great, with especially great ambience noises, such as distant explosions and 
 screams. There is also an energetic soundtrack to play to.
  
  Quake II is an immersive and exciting FPS, a timeless classic indeed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TonicBH
Rating: 6.8
Date: Sep 7, 2006 9:55 pm PT
Review:  Quake II is the sequel to the 1996 hit game Quake. However, its not like the Quake you remembered 
 playing. Its an amusing story, this game was not really supposed to be the sequel, it was supposed 
 to be a brand new series. However most of the names they decided were taken or mightve caused 
 copyright problems, so they went with the working title of Quake II and it stuck. In the game, 
 youre a marine known by the name Bitterman, and your objective was to kill the Strogg leader. 
 However, your trip is cut short as youre shot down into the planet Stroggos, and now you have 
 to fight your way to get to the Strogg leader and kill him to continue the assault (which would 
 lead into the events of Quake 4, the games sequel, released several years later) . While not really 
 told in this game, youll find out that they create the enemies, those Stroggs, out of existing, 
 captured marines. It also appears theyve sucked out most of their brain mass, as most of the unarmed 
 marines repeat such phrases such as Kill me now and baaing like sheep.
  
  Sadly, what made Quake so awesome has been stripped out in Quake II and it looks like a generic 
 Marine must kill enemies on an alien planet all by himself. The game takes place primarily on 
 marine bases in space, however there is some variety in locations such as a prison with a lengthy 
 torture chamber, a processing plant, among other locations.
  
  There are countless enemies in Quake II, mostly ones with simple weapons and guns, a few melee 
 enemies and very powerful enemies that take countless hits to knock out. Problem is the A. I. wasnt 
 really fleshed out, while they can strafe from side to side to make it hitting them a little harder, 
 and duck to dodge some shots, they have the problem of no retaliation if theyre very badly hurt, 
 so most of the time theyre another victim of the shotgun or machine gun. However, as a nice quirk 
 that was also in the original Quake, enough damage give will make the enemy explode into gibs.
 
  
  The game has a myriad of weapons; about 11 weapons can be equipped through the game. Breaking the 
 habit of many first person shooters, you are not given a melee weapon, the first weapon you have 
 is a blaster, a simple laser weapon that becomes neigh useless by the time you pick up the shotgun. 
 There is also a standard automatic weapon (the machinegun) and an even faster automatic weapon 
 (the chaingun) , projective explosives that bounce (grenades and the grenade launcher) and shoot 
 in a straight line (the rocket launcher) , among others. There is a BFG in this game, a nice homage 
 to Doom, this time its the BFG10K, which will mutilate anything in its path, even possibly yourself 
 if youre not careful.
  
  In Quake, the moment you picked up a powerup, it was instantly activated. In Quake II, it goes 
 into your inventory. Picking up from games like Heretic, the player may use certain powerups like 
 an environmental suit or the famed Quad Damage at any time. This is a plus, being able to use them 
 anytime gives the advantage of saving them for the most important moments like boss battles. Since 
 this game was around before the WSAD control scheme became standard in all first-person shooters, 
 the way to access these from the menu (using the left and right brackets and enter to activate 
 them) is a bit cumbersome. Thankfully most of the powerups also have a hotkey that makes them activate 
 when you press that key. But therein lies the problem of somebody hitting the key accidentally 
 and wasting a powerup that wouldve been very effective later.
  
  In regards to graphic quality, there are problems in this department. While the default graphic 
 setting is Software mode, which resorts to a lot of pixelated graphics and the like. Default 
 OpenGL is the recommended setting. OpenGL also makes the areas have lighted luminescence, which 
 gives the bases a dark, foreboding atmosphere. While that makes everything look better, it also 
 causes the problem of being very dark, resorting you to have to either use the blaster (your starter 
 weapon) to see, or crank up the brightness settings in the game or on your monitor. In addition, 
 due to the renderer, most of the models and the like look washed out in OpenGL, and appear to 
 have more detail in Software mode. This is very strange, and quite disappointing because of this. 
 If there were a form of happy medium, such as the detail of Software mode with the colored lighting 
 and darkness of OpenGL, I wouldnt have complained.
  
  The sound in the game is pretty innocuous, it brings atmosphere, but its not very memorable. Almost 
 every enemy speaks the language of Strogg, so it ends up sounding like utter gibberish, except 
 some that say words that sound like English. The weapon sounds are good too, and almost every weapon 
 sounds memorable, something that doesnt happen all that often in games. The games music, which 
 is primarily by Sonic Mayhem but with additional tracks by Jer Sypult (whom I havent heard of 
 before or since) and Bill Brown (who would later be known for composing the Rainbow Six series 
 of games) , and to be honest, I prefer the two tracks from the additional composers than Sonic Mayhems. 
 Sonic Mayhems tracks sound decent, but they have the problem of trying to sound too much like 
 Dooms tracks, made by the fabulous and memorable Bobby Prince. Personally Sonic Mayhem shouldve 
 put their own twist on the music, because some of them sound a little obnoxious at times. They 
 fit during multiplayer sessions, but theyre not as good in the single player department.
  
  Quake II itself takes about 4-5 hours to complete, and theres some bonus levels just like 
 in the original Quake that take some time to find, but theyre not completely detrimental to the 
 plot. Theres also a few easter eggs and the like, try to find the hidden ones in the last level, 
 theyre a hoot.
  
  Quake IIs multiplayer consists of mostly deathmatch and Capture the Flag. Its still a fun romp 
 despite its age, and its still fun to frag it on with friends. Quake II, like its predecessor, 
 has a somewhat big mod community, with such mods like Action Quake II. However, Quake II was made 
 before having the option to password-protect servers, so expect a few times to join a server and 
 get asked to leave.
  
  Quake II doesnt have a memorable single player. It tried to mix a plot with a bunch of senseless 
 killing, and it doesnt work, because this game is basically Quake in name only. It lacks the 
 cool feeling the original Quake had, such as fighting ogres and zombies with the thunderbolt weapon, 
 and it seems like another generic first-person shooter in space. Sad, I personally think id software 
 has gone downhill slightly after they lost John Romero
  
  Pros: Use-at-anytime powerups, Nice varieties of weapons and enemies, decent music and sound
 
  Cons: Game seems a little uncreative, A. I. is somewhat average, graphic quality is mixed, not 
 really a sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Medic
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 13, 2005 5:00 pm PT
Review:  Quake II has yet to be bested by any of Id's other works. It's a fact. Quake III arena had a crappy 
 50ms lag, Doom 3 was a disappointment, what does that leave us with as Id's achievement of greatest 
 proportions? Quake II my friends.
  
  Even the story engrosses me. The Stroggs' attack the human home world, and the humans plan and 
 place a brave counter-attack on the Stroggs', at their home world. Everything proceeds according 
 to plan (in the beautiful and awesome cinematic at the beginning of the game) , then the rest of 
 your platoon gets wiped out in an EMP blast. The blast misses you because you are clipped on the 
 way in, and you are left as the one man army against the Stroggs', Merry Christmas.
  
  The game looks great, even today. The gritty look in this reviewers opinion looks cooler than 
 Quake III's graphics. The character models look awesome, specifically the enemies. They all have 
 a unique look and neat death animation. It feels great and well put together. I still say to this 
 day that the Strogg Home world was one of the coolest in any Shooter.
  
  The weapons in the game, while not that out of the ordinary for a shooter, it did introduce one 
 of the favorites in any multiplayer shooter out today: The Railgun. Adapted to the Unreal Series 
 and some other shooters, this game was a favorite in Quake III that started with Quake II. The 
 other weapons look great, and feel awesome but none are anything you haven't really seen before.
 
  
  Quake II never had a real internet feature; you have to use Gamespy or MSN Gaming Zone to play 
 the game online, which is expected because when this game was made internet servers where non-existent. 
 The game is a real blast on a LAN though, do yourself a favor and check it out sometime.
  
  All in all Quake II is a classic that any shooter fan should play at one point, or you are truly 
 missing out on one of the best out there.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kinkyfriend_85
Rating: 7.6
Date: Sep 9, 2004 10:18 am PT
Review:  In late 1997 this game came out, many had waited for it after they had played through the first 
 Quake. 
  Many would expect something of a carnage, something special. But this is what came out.
  This 
 formed the Internet gaming life we are used to see today. This is Quake 2 but not Quake.
  It's a complete fail as a sequel but nobody wanted to see that truth, they would rather look at 
 it as perfect, as awesome. But of course, what was new in it? What in it made the Internet gaming 
 so good?, sure it had it's pros but it also had heavy cons as well. To talk about a few of them;
 
  
  Singleplayer
  
  This time you fight androids, robots, monster robots. Why? Why did they just not use the same kind 
 of scheme as Quake had?
  Many say, "whatever, what does that matter"
  To start off with, it matters as much as a screen does for you to know what you do on the computer. 
 
  Once singleplayer made a bigger deal than everything else, if a game could not succeed at singleplayer 
 it can therefore not succeed as a game, as a final product.
  But people did not care about the fact that the singleplayer mode lacked from several flaws. 
 
  I still believe that a failing single player mode is not acceptable. Singleplayer is like a story 
 but multiplayer is mostly only about killing.
  
  Graphics.
  
  It sure is an improve of the first game but is it much of an improve for being a second game? is 
 it much of an improve when it in fact was old even when it came out? Quake 2 still had much limitations 
 and based much of the graphics on poor blurryness, poor textures, poor skins.
  If they had improved Quake in detail rather than making crappy new textures, poor monsters and 
 so, it could have been so much better. Make no misstake, its decent for its time but it is not 
 compareable visually to a game such as Unreal which was only realesed some month later after Quake 
 2.
  Dont forget that it was after all released in late 1997, and not early.
  
  Sounds
  
  It does what it does, it follows the first Quake kind of sounds and for the time of the releasing 
 of Quake 2 it was quite dated. But it still works out okay, not great but okay.
  
  Overall this is a very hyped game, and if they had made it a Quake 2 instead of using the same 
 kind of sounds and poor scheme it would have scored better. So the Overall score hits 7.6/10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: j-miller
Rating: 9.8
Date: Aug 9, 2004 10:10 am PT
Review:  First person shooters has always been my genre of choice, why you ask? Because of three things: 
 Sophisticated AI, cool weapons and enemies, and loads of action. Although what seperates the good 
 FPS from the bad is a good plot, months of dedication, hard work, and a very good imagination. 
 After playing this classic 100 times I soon realized that the folks of id Software were bred to 
 make action games from the very start. Quake 2 for some reason, manage to bet the odds and won 
 no matter what the competition. Half Life and Jedi Knight were great shooters but Q2 was always 
 my favorite.
  
  Gameplay: 10 out of 10
  Gameplay of Quake 2 runs like buttah, and the controls are a breeze to get used to. But what I 
 like most about it is the environments were made of not just corriors but wide open areas as well. 
 Because of that, their is alot of freedom for scouting, trailing, and dodging enemy fire. The controls 
 are about the same as the first Quake: walk by using the WASD keys, turn by using the mouse, and 
 fire with the mouse buttons. With the mouse it makes manuvering and aiming much easier. Kudos to 
 id Software for adding excellent gameplay in such a great game!
  
  Graphics: 9 out of 10
  The Quake series is known for their 3D graphics engine and Q2 brings out the Quake engine and full 
 swing with a teensy weensy flaw. For an old game it's simply a prodigy of 3D graphics and animation. 
 The graphics are nicely done filled with nice textures and background art and the mutants move 
 very smoothly. And yet what really brings out the game's realism is when your enemy takes damages 
 the results are satisfying. Flesh wounds and chunks of gore reveals the damage you've inflected 
 and enough blows with the shotgun can easily turn a Sleg into a giant pile of flesh and gore. So 
 far here's the flaws in the textures the outlines turn out kinda fuzzy but hey, graphics can't 
 always be perfect ya know.
  
  Sound: 9 out of 10
  Great sound........ except for the music, which is annoying!
  
  Value: 10 out of 10
  All 
 I can say is this....... it makes you wanna play again and again!
  
  Reviewer's Tilt: 10 out of 10
  Quake 2 is an awesome game with plenty of carnage and mayhem..... 
 'nough said.
  
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
