-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Quake III Arena
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/quake3arena/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec 16, 1999
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 9.2
Critic Score: 8.4, 32 Review (s)
User Score: 8.9, 3,899 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Activision
Developer: id Software
Genre: Sci-Fi First-Person...
Date:     Dec 2, 1999
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Quake III Arena provides the ultimate deathmatch experience. 

 When most people think of first-person shooters, id Software immediately springs to mind. The small 
 Texas-based company has been involved in almost all of the first-person shooters that are considered 
 classics. Quake spawned a rabid fan base on the Internet that still watches id's every move. So 
 when id revealed that the next game in the series, Quake III Arena, would be specifically designed 
 as a multiplayer game, fans weren't quite sure what to think. But id's purpose became increasingly 
 clear when it released a succession of Quake III Arena technology demos for public scrutiny. The 
 resulting game is not only worthy of its lineage, but it may very well be the best Quake yet.  
 

 While Quake III Arena's focus may be its multiplayer deathmatch component, it does have a single-player 
 mode. When playing alone, you can go up against artificial intelligence-controlled bots. The bots 
 do their best to act like human players, and on the higher difficulty settings, they put up an 
 excellent fight. Each bot has different characteristics that govern the way it fights. The portly 
 biker chick Lucy tends to duck a lot. Xaero, a Zen master and the final boss of the single-player 
 mode, is also master of the railgun. The single-player mode is a lot like the kind in an arcade-fighting 
 game, such as Mortal Kombat. You'll move through several different competitive tiers, each with 
 different arenas and bots. At the end of each tier is a one-on-one showdown; these fights take 
 place in smaller, tournament-style arenas. The bots are downright chatty - when you get a group 
 of them together, they'll hold small conversations with each other, which are displayed in text 
 onscreen. In team games, you can order bots around, or even let a bot take control of your team 
 and tell you what to do.  

 The single-player mode is fun up to a point, but the multiplayer mode is where the real action is. 
 Quake III Arena moves very quickly, and it has a real pick-up-and-play design to it. The game feels 
 slightly simplified as compared to other recent shooters, but for the most part its simplicity 
 is a good thing. The game has been stripped down to its first-person shooter essence, and any extraneous 
 weapons or power-ups that might have gotten in the way of great deathmatch gameplay have been omitted. 
 However, a few things stick out as having been overly simplified. For instance, as in most shooters, 
 there is an auto-switch weapons option that lets you automatically switch to the new weapon when 
 you pick it up. It's a convenient feature because it lets you rearm yourself with a stronger weapon 
 almost immediately instead of having to press a key or spin the mouse wheel to select it. But when 
 you're in the middle of a close-quarters shotgun fight, you really don't want to accidentally switch 
 to the rocket launcher or railgun if you happen to walk over one. In that case, you can disable 
 the auto-switch feature. Similarly, if you're running away from someone who's firing BFG blasts 
 at you, the time it takes to manually select your new rocket launcher could be the difference between 
 life and death. A weapon-priority scale that lets you decide specifically which weapons you'd like 
 to switch to automatically, as in Unreal Tournament or QuakeWorld, would have easily solved the 
 problem.  

 The level design and texture design throughout Quake III Arena are quite good, even if the levels 
 feel a little generic. None of the levels ever feel like real-world places; they are one futuristic 
 castle setting after another, occasionally broken up by a level composed of a bunch of floating 
 platforms in the middle of a black void. That said, the textures, especially the animated ones, 
 are really amazing, and the game engine allows for curved surfaces, which deliver a more plausible 
 feel to the architecture. The levels have obviously been designed with gameplay in mind - most 
 of them are great fun to play in. However, the game seems to focus on levels that are great for 
 only six to ten players. With more than ten players, most of the maps seem really crowded. Aside 
 from standard deathmatch, you can also play team deathmatch, a one-on-one tournament mode that 
 acts like a scaled-down version of the popular rocket-arena mod that appeared in Quake and Quake 
 II, and capture the flag. Unfortunately, capture the flag seems almost like an afterthought. There 
 are only four CTF levels included in the game, and all of them seem suited to smaller teams.  

 
 Like the great-looking textures, the game's 3D models and special effects are very impressive. 
 The character models and skins look terrific, and the animation really brings a lot of personality 
 to the different characters. The various models are highly varied, and range from giant hopping-eye 
 creatures to skeletons. Models based on the characters from Doom, Quake, and Quake II are also 
 available. Curved surfaces help improve the quality of the level design, but other effects like 
 fog and great colored lighting add even more atmosphere to some of the game's levels. The weapon 
 models also look good for the most part, and they're easily identifiable in your enemies' hands. 
 Unfortunately, the sound in Quake III Arena is inconsistent. All of the weapon fire is outstanding. 
 The sound of rockets whizzing by your head as you dodge from side to side is especially impressive. 
 The different character voices (each model has its own set of sounds) are pretty good, though you 
 may become annoyed with Orbb the eyeball's screeching noises - all the more reason to kill him 
 quickly. But the real problem with the audio is the announcer, who says things like "five minutes 
 remaining" or "impressive" when applicable. Id obviously tried to duplicate the sound and style 
 of the announcer's menacing voice from the Mortal Kombat games. But instead of hiring an appropriate 
 voice actor, id simply took a typical voice (specifically that of level designer Christian Antkow) 
 and pitched it down a few octaves to make it sound sinister. Instead, it just comes off as amateurish. 
 Given the frequency with which the announcer speaks during the game, you'd think that the voice 
 would have received a bit more attention.  

 Regardless of how it sounds, after playing Quake III Arena, it's easy to see that moving toward 
 a multiplayer-centered game was an excellent idea. With cable modems and DSL connections slowly 
 gaining mainstream acceptance, the bandwidth is there for a lot of people to finally enjoy a good 
 deathmatch game at a high speed. Fortunately, provided you find a good server, the game also manages 
 to be playable over a 56K modem connection.  

 All things considered, it isn't a stretch to call Quake III Arena an outstanding game. But whether 
 it's superior to its rival Unreal Tournament is less certain. If you're interested in sophisticated 
 team-play modes like those featured in Unreal Tournament, then Quake III Arena comes up short. 
 However, Quake III Arena provides the ultimate deathmatch experience. If deathmatch is the particular 
 style of play you're interested in, then Arena is your game.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (85 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: turky-sub
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 4, 2008 2:21 am PT
Review:  As the 3rd game of the Quake franchise was released a fair while ago, it is hard to give a fair 
 review. But to be completally honest, it has it's possitives, and then it's negatives, which really 
 needed to be possitives to make Quake 3 a memorable experience.
  
  The game will provise you with some exciting, acion packed moments, but they don't seem to last 
 long enough, especially for people currently stuck offline (like me) . When I say this I mean that 
 there arn't enough of them, and these moments arn't exactly edge of your seat experiences most 
 of the time. Maybe a 10 second long machine gun battle that gets boring (to me) because it is't 
 intense enough, and, just not realistic enough.
  
  When i say not realistic enough i am saying things like how it takes about 35 machine gun bullets 
 being fired hitting your enemy every time to nuetrilize them. Or how the pathetic girly sounding, 
 short, grunted scream is heard when a bullet hits your hostille, It just sounds plain wierd. 
 
  
  Weapons in Quake 3 include the machine gun (wich seems more like a minigun as the several barrels 
 spin when firing rounds) , the shotgun, which can be fairly useful when 2 metres away from your 
 enemy, the rocket launcher, a nice piece of equipment which will frag your target if cleanly hit 
 by one of these rockets. These are just 4 of the 9 instruments of destruction that you are elligible 
 to use in Quake 3 as you fght your way through 6 tiers (and a fnal tier, which will have one opponnent) , 
 each including about 5 playable characters, who you will have to face, sometimes versing several 
 at a time, in a most frags wins based deathmatch game, or, usually at the end there will be a boss 
 from the tier you will verse face to face (usually first to 10 frags wins) .
  
  The gameplay seems to much relied on a run and gun sort of gameplay, as your hostilles will never 
 stop moving, running in a very unco looking fashion, as they will run around with no tactical game 
 style, collecting ammo and items, and randomly shooting at anything they see.
  
  So Quake 3 is just not the ideal shooter - that somes it up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aberinkulas
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 26, 2008 10:28 am PT
Review:  Quake III is not a complex game. It has a relatively small smattering of weapons. It has no secondary 
 fire. It has no special power-ups beyond the occasional self-explanatory item. It doesn't have 
 any special moves or models. It plays mostly only Deathmatch, and maybe Capture the Flag if you 
 ask it nicely. Certain players don't get special treatment. The concept of the game is simple: 
 put the dot over the bad guys (bad guys referring to anyone but you) and press the button. Watch 
 the blood fly.
  
  Why is the simplicity so affective? The once-gratuitous graphics and gore of Quake III have slowly 
 devolved over time, and as games like Gears of Ware come along and offer violence beyond what 1999 
 never dreamed of, Quake III looks archaic. The game is fairly tame at this point, and really only 
 exists as a step into a world that no longer exists; as shooter games on consoles become more convoluted 
 and require more memorization of units, vehicles, and classes, Quake III shows you what it's like 
 to play a shooter. It's so simple that it can't be bested.
  
  The maps, modes and weapons demonstrate that Quake III is everything Quake I and II were online, 
 but fully realized. Everything in the hands of the player is pitch perfect; the movement is fast, 
 furious, and smooth, and all of the guns are both balanced and yet overpowered in the perfect ways. 
 Some of the parts of the game, to be completely honest, defy the English language in the way that 
 it all fits together, as it's impossible to describe why the mismatched art designs work without 
 detracting from the simple but effective graphics. Yet it does.
  
  This game is fast. Online these days is a gore-fest; often the players you'd play against had been 
 playing for so long that they can beat any new player without thinking about it. High-level tournament 
 play for Quake III, to be completely honest, is simply stunning, and will humble any gamer. And 
 yet, there's a primal, crude urge to be that good, and that's what makes Quake III fun beyond every 
 little match. Because of the simplicity, every increment of success is in the player's mind.
  
  At its core, the game is to be played like a football match. Success is in victory, and each 
 victory is so small and minuscule that every ledge is a new opportunity. At first, the player beats 
 down bots, growing better and better until the bots can't challenge them any more. Then it's time 
 to find some gamers with a skill level that's about level, and slowly fight the way to the top. 
 But like any sport similar to this, it takes a love of the game and a commitment to actually want 
 to be that good. The whole concept is definitely bizarre, and yet it never fails to compel me.
 
  
  Even this many years into the future, Quake III is worth playing. It's easy to understand, but 
 that's never a bad thing; its gameplay never gets in the way of its initial objective. Quake III, 
 without a doubt, is one of the greatest shooters ever made. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Azghouls
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 15, 2008 12:22 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: 9
  Graphics: 10
  Sounds: 8
  Value: 6
  Tilt: 5
  Actual score: 7.2
  
  There is absolutely no denial that part of Quakes success lies with the multiplayer aspect. 
 Since the release of Quake back in 1996, it places a new meaning to online play as the internet 
 was still at its infancy. Continuing this accomplishment, Quake 2 was let loose with an entirely 
 new story yet still maintained that strong presence with its death matches. With the demand for 
 online multiplayer on all-time high, its natural progression was to create a new game purely for 
 fragging opponents online and offline so Quake 3 was born.
  
  There is no real premise for Quake 3 other than simply getting the highest frag counts at the end 
 of the bout. This was a complete turn-a-around from the previous two as Quake 3 yet again felt 
 differently as there is no single player story (arguably Quake 1 doesnt have a story either) . 
 The offline/single player component are in a form of seven tiers that the player needs to progress 
 to meet the ultimate uber bot, Xaero. Tier one is obviously the easiest with only one match to 
 win, through tier two to six there are five matches to win in each tier then the ultimate tier 
 seven just one (and very hard) match and as a reward a pretty cool ending cut-scene.
  
  You will also have the opportunity to receive awards (e. g. accuracy: which is the hit/miss ratio 
 greater than 50%; excellent award: fragging two opponents in two seconds; impressive: two consecutive 
 hits with the railgun just to name a few) so theres plenty of death match activities during 
 the single player mode.
  
  Yet the main core of the game is naturally is the online component. Again death match will be your 
 primary target (which includes its variances e. g. team death match) and as a change of pace there 
 are a few capture the flag maps. Make no mistake that here is where your skills will come into 
 play as Quake 3 is an ultra fast game as split second decision is the key; if you stand around 
 pondering what to do next will become a gibbering mess before you can say #$%^.
 
  
  The online codes are extremely stable and theres little chance that the game will crash. 
 Of course you can select the skin of your choice or create your own with an easy skin creator toolkit. 
 In addition to this, there are plenty of maps to choose from however the designs are at times a 
 little languid for my liking as it really feels the same old maps just different pathways. Yet 
 the designers have made some efforts of trying to make things interesting by adding in moving platforms, 
 jump pads and plenty of maneuvering spaces (e. g. all the maps on tier 6) .
  
  The AIs are quite reasonable as each bot has a certain type of personality and playing style which 
 certainly adds charm to that otherwise dreary offline death match. These bots can either be aggressive, 
 passive, defensive and so forth and some even have a weapon of choice. In addition each bot will 
 provide cheesy response that almost acts like the human counterpart. That said, if you type some 
 remark (e. g. Im god) the chances that a bot will provide you an equally tacky statement.
 
  
  Id software is famed for their graphical engine and Quake 3 is the pioneer of the future. Using 
 the latest id Tech 3 engine it made massive improvements from id Tech 2 (which fueled Quake 2) 
 as this time you wont be seeing that pixilated effect as all the characters are now full 
 3D with high polygons counts, accurate animations to boot with superb lightning as this was practically 
 non existence in the previous Quake games. The characters death animations are also pretty 
 cool as not only they will provide you a smart remark however they also give you that smiley face 
 icon if the shots are worth taking notes and as you will expect, this only applies to the bots.
 
  
  The Quake series are also famed for its quality for sounds and Quake 3 is no exception and its 
 highly advisable to invest in a decent set of headphones or speakers otherwise youll be 
 missing those sounds of passing rockets or the heavy thump from those shotguns. Make no mistake 
 that if the neighbours are not complaining about the noise levels you have the wrong game installed. 
 Sonic Mayhem, the folks that made the music for Quake 2 are back again and as a special 
 guest, Front Line Assembly (FLA) . The only lacking part of the quality of sounds is the commentator: 
 even though he sounds deep and menacing its a little too childish and really 
 out-dated by a couple of years. Maybe it was good in the early 90s however considering the game 
 was released in 1999, its a little too late.
  
  Thankfully, the engine that fueled Quake 3 provides easy modding tools therefore if the build-in 
 maps bore you there is no real limits (other than your imagination) that you can create your very 
 own maps. Considering the Quake series have a huge following, there will be no issues when searching 
 or creating a map of your liking. This also applies in skins creation (as mentioned before) , sounds 
 and even bot speak.
  
  Being almost exclusively a death match experience, there is not much else going other than those 
 few capture the flag maps. The Quake series has always been known for their fast paced online experience 
 as evident from their previous two Quake games yet looking at a bigger picture, there is little 
 to show when it comes to innovation. Quake 3 major competitor at the time, Unreal Tournament knew 
 that death match, even though it is exciting needs to add improvements to match the current market 
 therefore introduced many different playing styles (e. g. assault, domination and the teleporter 
 where the character can teleport short distances instead of grabbing the power ups as in Quake 
 3) .
  
  Quake 3 used their previous successes and developed a game that will please the newcomers however 
 for the current fans does little justice as they have already experienced death matches in the 
 previous two games. So it maybe good in the short term however competition does not wait for anyone 
 therefore existing Quake fans most likely jump ship in search of a different online experience 
 . Yet, and thankfully so, Quake 3 does add its own personality in the form of bot speak 
 and the awards system which will spark an over-used genre but in a nutshell, its all about 
 fragging. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ToughHorn
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 5, 2008 3:15 pm PT
Review:  Quake III Arena is a game that is firmly for competitive play, thus restricting the player in multiplayer 
 but allowing him to choose from 5 difficulty levels on start so he advances in skill the way he 
 wants to. The Game has been entered as one of the main Electronic Sports in the "ESWC". The Single 
 player isnt as long as it should be, there are a lack of maps but then again there are map packs 
 wich fill the gap made by the few verieties of maps, tough CTF maps are different by structure.
 
  
  The AI: is SMART, depending on the difficulty they even sometimes think faster than you... hah.. tough 
 for seasoned players they pose no serious threat (AI calculates direction of movement, re-evaluates 
 targets, etc.)
  
  The Multi-Player: carries a high value to the game and to the players because you have to focus 
 and apply everything youve learned from the single player or from the game as a whole, and survive 
 by pure skill and knowledge since the game has more than several hidden strategies for movement, firing, terrain 
 overtaking, etc.
  
  So for those who are looking for a challange or just want to play something fun and learning the 
 ropes of a really strategic shoot-em-up gory game, thats the game for you... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coolchris330
Rating: 10
Date: May 28, 2008 12:21 am PT
Review:  I run across the map and onto the pad, and I go flying through the air screaming 'aieeeeeee', then, 
 just to put a stop to your fun, a rail gun blasts you in the face and blood sprays the nearby walls. 
 Oh well, I'll just respawn and shoot him with his own Rail gun. You appear, you have a machine 
 gun so you use it on the nearest 2 goons, that will show them for trying to kill me, they don't 
 crumple to the ground, but rather explode in a fountain of blood (you can turn this off with a 
 console command) . You walk through the area of red smoke as it clears, you pull out the rail gun 
 that you claimed from the body and shoot each of your enemy's, in turn, in the back of the head 
 *bang, bang, bang,*. While the game would not appear very rewarding to the untrained eye, it is 
 the satisfaction of the enemies exploding and the voice that says *3 frags left, 2 frags left, 
 1 frag left, you have WON THE MATCH*
  
  Graphics
  Well, the graphics couldn't hold up a candle to Crysis, but they were very lifelike back in the 
 1999 release date
  
  Sound
  Nothing beats the announcer telling you how many kills you have left before you have won the match, 
 and the rocket launcher will never sound the same again.
  
  Gameplay
  Typical run-and-gun, unlike Max Payne, nothing gets in the way of blowing the man up you were chasing!
 
  
  Cons
  Gets a bit samey after a while, but that's the point (-0) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rogue_Kain
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 13, 2008 12:37 pm PT
Review:  Quake 3 Arena : a title everyone should know. It's just amazing. For starters the single-player 
 mode is brilliant. The bots are quite a match if you put it on high difficulty. But the real deal 
 is the online game which is a dream come true. The game-play is ideal. You can go around shooting 
 people so easy that even my grandmother could play it. You can chose your character from a trizillion 
 models and use a bunch of cool weapons. There are also a few bugs to it that you could use and 
 a lot of cool tricks you can learn by yourself. The main purpose of this game is to kill as much 
 as you can. Reach the 1000 frags if you want just have fun. There's no more i can say about this 
 game only that the maps are very interesting and well thought. You HAVE to try it if you haven't 
 played it already and you will never let it go. It will always be in your top FPS games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KNinjaSoul
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 29, 2008 8:40 am PT
Review:  Quake III Arena, by id Software, a company that made all the first and revolutionary FPS games, 
 is in my opinion their best.
  
  The fun that can be had in Quake 3 with the intense online action, custom maps, gamemodes, etc, 
 is amazing, and remains so from day of release to the present day.
  
  I have had Quake III since the day of release, and I continue to play it today. That's a good 9 
 years without it getting old/stale and playing it very often. As I said, it has intense usually 
 close-combat action which is very well done, very fun, and very fast-paced, and not only that, 
 but it's highly moddable, making maps and textures and sounds and models and just about everything 
 in the game is easy to do, however the fact that it's easy doesn't mean it's simple, you can still 
 make very high quality stuff with it.
  
  All in all, this game is simply a classic and a masterpiece, and will always remain so in my eyes. 
 No online experience is really quite like it.
  
  It's still highly played today, still fun, and other games like Unreal Tournament really don't 
 live up to it, and Quake 4 by Raven Software didn't live up to it.
  
  This game gets an easy, perfect 10 from me. This rating may seem like a premature judgement; but 
 believe me, it's not. This game is so good, I can't see it having any possible improvement, therefore 
 it earns a 10. I don't think i've ever seen any other game get a 10 from me.
  
  Don't think twice about buying this game, even today, it still is WELL worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OMGitsZAL
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 27, 2008 10:09 am PT
Review:  This game was my first ever PC demo. After being addicted to the demo, I decided to get the full 
 game. I was not unimpressed. The graphics may be simple, but when you're playing a fast CTF game 
 online, you'll barely notice them anyway. There are so many mods for this game. The single player 
 in this game was generally half-baked as this game was meant for pure online play. It's short, 
 but it's good practise to get you used to the weapons and maps. 
  
  The online play is what makes this game legendary, there are many servers, roughly 400 at one time 
 on v1.16 and roughly 1300 at one time on v1.32. You'll never get bored, and there are many clans 
 to join, people to meet (and frag) and mods to choose. There are 4 different types of match, Deathmatch, 
 Team Deathman, Capture the Flag and Tourney. These are the defaults you get with the game. There 
 are many more with different mods, such as Last Man Standing, and Freeze Tag (which is like Team 
 Deathmatch, but with a twist) .
  
  There isn't much more to say about this game, but you must try it at least. It has probably revolutionized 
 online play for FPSs everywhere.
  
  -Zal 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cradleofbodom
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 12, 2008 9:26 am PT
Review:  Ok, my friend got me this for my birthday because I have the first two quakes, and I didn't think 
 it was gunna be all that good, I heard it was way to fast to play. Boy is this game FUN and good. 
 It is really fast, but that just bring you into the experiance more skill needed. First off everyone 
 is running at this speed with guns that can blow ur freaking body apart, so going around with this 
 is pritty intense. The graphics arnt much different than the first quake, couldnt have been alot 
 better for the time it came out at. Sounds kind of good, except when they talk, everyone sounds 
 harda** and macho, this isn't duke nukems id. But that's ok, the real reason people should get 
 this is many hours of tuff and fast online matches. Even though this game is old, there are still 
 many many online matches were u face off people who are most of the time about as good as you if 
 you've played threw single player. And you can create your own matches so you can controll what 
 to play. Warning though, this isn't like halo fps, its not like anyother online shooter I've ever 
 played, it's fast, challenging, and very intense. Recomend to everyone who likes all 3 of those, 
 because if you don't like these kind of games you probably end up hating this game. Very good game 
 despite lack of voices and not so very good graphics, try it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SolarConception
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 1, 2008 8:16 am PT
Review:  Quake 3 was one of those games that grabbed me as soon as I picked it up and instantly became a 
 second suit. For many years I had been a Doom addict and although many games came along that I 
 loved, I was looking for something that had the same magic that Doom had. Along came Quake III 
 Arena.
  
  Quake III is flawless in every aspect required from a deathmatch FPS. Standing shoulder-to-shoulder 
 with many greats like Doom, Quake 1 and Unreal Tournament. In my opinion it surpasses these titles 
 overall. Quake III has smooth controls, fluid gameplay and netplay just like many titles of its 
 caliber, but provides a perfect balance of weapons and physics to provide all out fun and intense 
 competitive gameplay. 
  
  There are a number of mods and hundreds of maps to suit everyone's personal style and preferences. 
 OSP, ProMode and RA3 being three of the best deathmatch titles. Although their are many more that 
 deviate greatly from the original. Fly around blowing people up in Bid For Power (DBZ) mod. Kit 
 up and take on opponents in a more down to earth conversion known as Urban Assault. Quake III Team 
 Arena is also great fun for a couple of gamers looking for something different to play every now 
 and then.
  
  And to conclude I just have to say once again that this is still one of the greatest FPS games 
 ever made. Add this to your wishlist cause I hope to see you in the Arena! :-D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thrashmaster
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 11, 2008 6:47 pm PT
Review:  The fact that this game has basically no single player doesn't bother me at all. This game is all 
 about the multiplayer modes that are simple and addictive.
  
  First off, the level designs are awesome, very simple to learn how to get around and straight forward 
 while they still have a lot of substance to them. You don't need to play the levels to many times 
 to learn where the items are and action hot spots. There are also not a lot of levels in the game, 
 only the dozen or so of good ones compared to other games out there that have many levels but only 
 a few that are played on. Also, if you want to create your own levels or get familiar with level 
 design I recommend this as a good place to start. There are many tools on that internet that you 
 can download and use to help you get started.
  
  Next up is the weapons. These weapons are for the most part greatly balanced and different weapons 
 are perfect for certain situations thoughout the game. Unlike the other 2 quakes in the series, 
 the rocket launcher is not an insanely overpowered weapon, sometimes it is best to use, and sometimes 
 the railgun, or shotgun is.
  
  All in all practice makes perfect in this game and I am sure most people will not mind putting 
 in the little amount of time it takes to learn the basics of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sabbath2gamer
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 17, 2007 9:26 pm PT
Review:  ok so this game was released back in 1999 it was the thing back then the multiplayer was so intense 
 the graphics weren't much but who cares when yuo could play other from all over the world 
  the maps are brilliant 
  the guns are legendary 
  and Sarge is still kicken @ss 
  i used 
 to play a lot back then there were so many servers and about a year ago i started playing the game 
 again and there are still so many servers which proves that the game still has some kick to it 
 
  i have played quake 4 but there is just no competition when comparing it to quak3 
  as a matter of fact im still playing it 
  if there any quake die hard fans out there hit me up 
 on the demo my names are
  Protege 
  n0d
  RagE
  i play on LAX FFA, emotion con, and Mongolian championship 
  my 2nd favorite game behind bully 
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: keybladesorajp
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 3, 2007 1:21 pm PT
Review:  Omg this game is just **** awesome its like Halo but a death game omg man im telling u when i bought 
 this game i thought it was boreing its awesome and has great multiplayers it makes call of duty 
 look like crap lol also u can play bid for power whote is like DBZ but online or single player 
 with bots gosh relly u should play this game did i also say that u can import DBZ models into Quake 
 3 arena or Bid for power so funny lol goku with a gun lol U GUYS GOT TO PLAY THIS GAME 
::::::

::::::
UserName: majesticcryx
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 1, 2007 3:38 am PT
Review:  To hell with deathmatch - as far as the online crowd is concerned, team-based action is where it's 
 at, dominated by free add-ons like Counter-Strike and Team Fortress Classic. Amid this freebie 
 craze id Software has entered the fray with a commercial add-on called Arena. Sure, the boys are 
 busy warming up for Doom III, but is their latest work a decent diversion?
  
  Team Arena's big addition to the Quake universe is a variety of different character classes, which 
 are assigned by grabbing flashing color-coded pick-ups that give new abilities. For example, a 
 Guard benefits from increased health and armor, Scouts boogie along and fire at an increased rate, 
 and Doublers do two times the damage.
  
  There are also new special items, similar to runes in Classic Quake CTF mods. The Invulnerability 
 Sphere deflects all incoming attacks but renders you stationary, and the Kamikaze sends a shockwave 
 ripping through the arena at the cost of your own life. You'll also find shiny new weapons to tear 
 apart your opponents - prox grenades, nail guns, and the Doom chaingun are back in full effect. 
 While the end result isn't an entirely new game, these goodies add an extra layer of complexity 
 to the proven gameplay of Quake III.
  
  Arena sports four teamplay modes, two of which are standard Capture the Flag games (you know, the 
 same CTF that was included with Quake III) . One of the new modes is Harvester, wherein you grab 
 the skulls of your fallen enemies and return them to your base for big points. The other is a straightforward 
 (read: slightly brainless ) game called Overload, where you shoot at a floating skull located in 
 the enemy base.
  
  While the new class system works fine in the CTF modes, the gameplay feels a bit unbalanced in 
 Harvester and Overload. Both of these feel like weak user-created mods that were tacked on at the 
 last minute. Speaking of subpar, the new player models are pretty lame by id's standards, and the 
 voice acting in the taunts is pure crap. As with Quake III, the whole shebang is playable on- or 
 off-line. The AI bots put up a good fight, and seem to follow orders fairly well, managed by a 
 redesigned interface that pays homage to Unreal Tournament. Giving orders and mucking with game 
 settings is as easy as picking and clicking on pull-down menus, making gauche console commands 
 a thing of the past. Nice.
  
  Similarly impressive is the collection of battlegrounds, which includes fresh teamplay, CTF, and 
 standard deathmatch tournament arenas (20 new maps in all) . However, the real stars of the show 
 are the outdoor maps, which feature sprawling, picturesque environments that are bigger than any 
 Quake levels you've ever seen. What's especially impressive is how these maps are optimized for 
 speed. They'll satisfy anyone who's hankerin' for the wide-open flavor of Tribes in a candy-coated 
 Quake shell.
  
  But are all of these extras worth $30? That's a tough call. It's no secret that a lot of Quake 
 fans are peeved at id's decision to make this add-on a retail product rather than a freebie download. 
 (Sierra/Valve continues to offer better add-ons for free download.) And considering the plethora 
 of professional-quality maps, player models, and gameplay mods currently online, this particular 
 collection is pretty underwhelming. If you have access to the Internet and some time to spend downloading 
 from PlanetQuake, you can do a lot better than Arena. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cipherr
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 27, 2007 4:01 pm PT
Review:  Just plain great. A good straight forward FPS that I still enjoy today all these years later. It 
 held up well. I mainly play the CTF as it is the perfect mix of fragging and teamwork, no other 
 game has held my intrest as long as this one. And even though its graphics are somewhat dated, 
 they arent a pain to the eyes. Its a shame that quake 4 didnt follow this games lead, it really 
 would have been nice. If your looking for some fast paced white knuckle pick up and play fun, look 
 no further.
  
  The public servers, while they still exist however are starting to dwindle with only maybe 8 or 
 so very established ones sticking around for CTF. None of them show any signs or interest in shutting 
 down soon, so there will likely be servers to play on for a good while. Lots of them even provide 
 stat tracking surprisingly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DooMiNo
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 17, 2007 8:29 am PT
Review:  Back in 1999-2000 when the game was released I was sceptical to the decision from ID Software to 
 only make it a multiplayer game. I had come to love their ability to make singleplayer and thought 
 that they were going in the wrong direction. But obviously they knew what they were doing because 
 it delivered not only a solid gameplay but also a solid engine that gave birth to other great games 
 as well. For example: the original Call Of Duty, Jedi Knight: Jedi Outcast and Medal of Honor.
 
  
  At the time it's to big competitors were (and according to some people still are) Counter Strike 
 and Unreal Tournament. Counter Strike delivered a slower-paced gameplay with aim, tactics and team-play 
 in focus. Unreal Tournament on the other hand was a faster game that focused more on instant action 
 and about delivering lots of different multiplayer modes to the consumer. ID took a somehow different 
 approach and focused on making a more pure multiplayer experience. Their game was a more minimalistic 
 and seamless game that was all about speed. To prove their goal they decided not to use ladders 
 or elevators to take you to a higher level, but instead use jump pads that bounced you off into 
 the sky. The fast gameplay also made it hard (if not impossible) for a camper to get good stats 
 with a lot of frags.
  
  The gameplay modes were outnumbered when compared to UT's but then again this game wasn't about 
 the gameplay modes, but about the gameplay itself. The modes included where: Deathmatch, Team Deathmatch, 
 CTF and Tournament . The weapons side (including old favorites such as rocket launcher, railgun 
 and lightning gun) were about what you would expect and worked great in the fast gameplay. Although 
 in the beginning the weapons were a little unbalance but later patches and mods tweaked certain 
 weapons and made it balanced, something that is very crucial for a game that is as competitive 
 as this. What makes the game one of the best multiplayer shooters in the history is probably the 
 balanced gameplay and the maps. The game is basically about three things: aim, mapcontrol and prediction. 
 Aim is of course crucial in any FPS so that one is pretty obvious. The second one is mapcontrol 
 and that one is about controlling the map (stop the presses!!) . That one is one of those things 
 that makes the game both balanced and fun. Your goal is basically to stop the opponent from getting 
 the key items on the map. Things like megahealth and the Armors that gives you the upper hand in 
 every battle. Making the enemy unable to get the best weapons is another way that you make yourself 
 superior to your opponent. In a match between really experienced players it's often a battle at 
 the key items and they can perfectly time the respawn of those items. The prediction part is about 
 predicting where your opponent are, where he is going or where he is respawning. Good players can 
 get many free kills because they estimate where the opponent are about to spawn.
  
  Another thing that ID made very well with this game ware the possibility to create mods for the 
 game. Many great mods have been done to keep the game fresh and competitive. The more famous ones 
 are CPMA (Challange Promode Arena) , OSP (Orange Smoothie Productions) , Defrag and RocketArena.
 
  
  Most elements of the game are easy to learn/understand, but most of them are also hard to master. 
 This might turn some players off so they don't get really into it, but then they miss one of the 
 greatest experiences in multiplayer history. There is nothing more satisfying than totally owning 
 your friends/opponents and I think few FPS's provides that opportunity as good as Quake 3 does. 
 In games like Counter Strike they can always camp and take you in the back but in Quake 3 there 
 are no excuses, if you loose, your opponent is simply better than you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gassy_human
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 23, 2007 11:13 am PT
Review:  Quake 3 is the most incredible gives you the most ncredible head rush you can possibly get out 
 of playing a game No new age graphics can replace the irreplacable fast paced action in this game. 
 The single player mode is awesome if played at hardcore. After playing quake all other fps games 
 seem far to tame to be played This game is just totally frantic. This game has the most out of 
 control insanity. Unlike most other fps's this game is actually thrilling The best thing about 
 this game is the rush you get when your drunk and your playing the game. It's like pot and pimk 
 floyd 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Danchou
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 16, 2007 11:19 am PT
Review:  The single player can be a bit on the boring side but anyone who buys this game to just play the 
 offline content is really missing out on all the buzz.
  The multiplayer is the heart of the game and will leave you coming back for more. Many inventive 
 guns, enough game types, and replayability up the ying-yang. Graphics of course are out dated... 
 but graphics aren't everything and this is something that plagues the current wave of next-gen 
 consoles and games. Gameplay should always trump the visuals or else the devlopers are just polishing 
 a turd!
  The sound... yikes, i guess its fun hearing your character being cursed at by the other players 
 but it gets old very very quick.
  Bottom line is that this is a solid classic shoot'em up that is a nice change from the mainstream 
 flow of world war shooters.
  I highly recommend this game for people who are looking for a break from the conventional WWII 
 or Battlefield2-esque games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thomas10soa
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 6, 2007 2:50 pm PT
Review:  quake 3 is simply an amazing multiplayer experience, however the single player is incredibly dull
 
  
  gameplay 10
  the gameplay is simply amazing, ultimate frag fest
  
  graphics 8
  graphics are a bit pointy, but highly detailed
  
  sound 7
  not bad but not great either
 
  
  value 9
  amazing multiplayer that could have you hooked for years, however if you dont have an internet 
 connection, then this game is pretty boring
  
  tilt 8
  awesome online
  
  overall 8.7 great, which i thing is a good way to describe this
  shame about the stupid bots 
 in single player but if you have an internet connection, this game is for you 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DiabeticDood
Rating: 5.4
Date: Apr 26, 2007 5:37 pm PT
Review:  QIII is more of an online/LAN game. The story is not continued in this game so thats a little 
 bit of a let down. While this game has updated sounds, graphics and everything else. I found that 
 the gameplay becomes the same if youre not playing online or LAN with this game. Its just a run 
 and gun game. If the first one was like this I dont think I would have liked the series. This 
 game just feels like Im doing the same thing over and over but just on a different map. The bots 
 in this game are just stupid thats why I say play this game with a couple of buddies. There even 
 dumber then rocks on the hardest mode. While they might be more accurate I think they shouldnt 
 get stuck behind a wall still! This game is fairly cheap with the Quake pack with Quakes 1-3 costing 
 you only 20 dollars. I just find this Quake not to be has fun as all the rest. While its a good 
 game still I just find myself not playing this one as much as all the others. Maybe its just me 
 but this game is meant for Online/LAN only and I rarely play online anymore. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gouki_13
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 7, 2007 2:10 pm PT
Review:  this is one of those games you'd still completely enjoy and be addicted to after a decade or so.
 
  graphics may look icky now but back in 1999 it was cutting edge, gameplay is where this baby shines, 
 this is the fastest, hardest, best multiplayer FPS game out there. still owns after all these years.
 
  the engine is outdated now but still this is as every bit as fresh as it was back in 99.
  this is one of those games every multiplayer party must have ON.
  i can't say enough good things 
 about it. get it now, try it, get hooked to it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: demoman_chaos
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 30, 2007 5:00 am PT
Review:  Quake 3 Arena sets the standard for shooting games. Even after 7 years, this game is still alive 
 and kicking. Quake 3 is completly different from past Quakes. Quake 3 is an arena only game. This 
 may make it sound boring, but the action is steady and will keep you entertained for a long time.
 
  
  The story is you have been selected to compete in a deathmatch league with the best warriors. The 
 thing about this league, no one really dies. If you do, you are borught back to life. The ruler 
 of this area enjoys this kind of entertainment and doesn't want his contestants to die off.
  
  The single player mode is split into 2 areas, the main game with preselected matches, and skirmirsh 
 mode. Story mode is you fight preselected enemies on a predetermined map to a number of kills. 
 You work your way up through the ranks untill you figth Xero, the current champ. You beat him, 
 you beat the main game. You can play through all the levels any time you want after unlocking them.
 
  The matches are seperated into Tiers. There is about 4 battles per tier with 7 tiers. It doesn't 
 lat too lonf, but the battles stay fun for a long time.
  
  Skirmish mode is where most time will be spent. You can select what bots, how many, where you will 
 fight, what style of match, what team they are all one (in team games) , and how hard they are.
 
  
  There are 5 difficulties. Each one is completly different from the rest. The lowest difficculty 
 can be used to easily beat the game, then play certain levels again to test how good you really 
 are. The second lowest difficulty raises the bar pretty high. The AI gets better aim and plays 
 much different.
  The same repeats for all but the highest. The highest diffuculty will have you crying CHEAT and 
 HAXOR by how much better they are. You can take little damage and they are extremly good shots. 
 You better be real good before attempting that difficulty. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trpjazz
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 14, 2007 8:14 pm PT
Review:  Quake 3 is the perfect type of game to play at a LAN. Quick to setup and get going, and a hell 
 of a lot of fun. Without a decent single player mode to back it up, however, there isn't that much 
 to take out of it in the end.
  
  Looking back and playing it again, it hasn't lost any of its charm or entertainment factor. Pick 
 up the mods or Team Arena expansion, and you've got a title that can bring endless amounts of fun, 
 and now at a much cheaper price. So don't shy away from Quake III if you do happen to find it at 
 a bargain bin, and you are yet to try it. You may be surprised at how much fun it really is. I 
 still enjoy it to this day. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: goldstrike7
Rating: 9.9
Date: Dec 5, 2006 7:07 pm PT
Review:  GAMEPLAY: Quake 3's gameplay is absolutely amazing. the multiplayer is so addictive, fast paced 
 and fun. Quake 3 to me, is what online gaming is all about. GRAPHICS: For its time, quake 3 has 
 great graphics. great 3d models, gun models were smooth, textures at very high resolutions although 
 i had some problems with my Voodoo3 initialy, it all got fixed =)
  
  SOUND: Sound is the reason my rating is at 9.9 and not 10. The sound were great, not stellar. I 
 loved most of the sound effects. Specifically the announcers voice. There were certain aspecst 
 of the sound i didnt like. Many creatures sounded like idiots and the machine gun sounds was WEAK 
 and pitiful. Nevertheless, not enough to significantly damage q3a's score.
  
  VALUE: Quake 3 is an awesome value, the single player may be short, but really all it is there 
 for is training for multiplayer. thats where the value is. You'll find your self wasting entire 
 nights on q3a. Multiplayer doesn't get boring for months, and when it does you have literally hundereds 
 of mods and additions just a couple clicks away on the internet. To sum quake3 up in several words: 
 This game owns.
  It will keep you busy for months and months, although it'll take a couple rounds (10-15) of getting 
 pwned hard before you can keep up with everyone else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Soni-Street
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 4, 2006 4:09 am PT
Review:  Since playing this game nothing is the same, Quake III Arena redefined the word FPS, from boaring 
 walking in first-person view around in dizzy-making levels... to extreme fun that spreads across 
 the network and internet alike. This is a game that should e in any FPS's fans collection, or should 
 I say hard-disk, even though I'm using Windows Vista (Final Release) on a monster machine I still 
 have my deathmatch days with my friends from university. I can never forget the days when I first 
 got this game and the nights me and my friends played on the LAN Parties. The time the game came 
 out it had top notch graphics, great sound FX coming from the unique weapons and great AI (if you 
 didn't have a human player) . Even for a multyplayer this game has to much story in it, what's the 
 story? You are all great worriors put in one arena to kick each other's @!#$%... enough said now 
 go and play your copy of Q3A. ID Software you never stop to amaze us... don't get me started on 
 DOOM III now ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Junglemanchild
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 15, 2006 4:37 pm PT
Review:  Almost everyone who has heard of online gaming will know of Quake III Arena. It's the game that 
 is still going strong, even after a big sequel... this is the first online FPS for many gamers, 
 including myself.
  
  GAMEPLAY 10/10
  
  I do not see this game as an offline game, yes you can play it offline in a pretty boring single 
 player mode. So this review shall be about the online aspects of the game. The game consists of 
 you running around as your character in first person view, using a large selection of weapons and 
 generally destroying your opponents. Online you can play in many modes, free for all, team deathmatch, 
 capture the flag and 1vs1. There are unlimited amounts of customisations, this could be your model, 
 maps, types of games, my favourite being freezerail (only using the railgun and freezing your opponents, 
 meaning the other team must unfreeze them) . It is frantic and it is very exciting... easy to get 
 used to but difficult to master as you will find out after playing online.
  
  GRAPHICS 9/10
  
  The graphics are good, they still look good years on. Compared to its sequel 
 they arent that great but at least i can play this no problem on my computer. guns looks nice and 
 the maps are interesting and some are very large.
  
  SOUND 9/10
  
  Taunt your opponents. Dodge the rocket you hear coming or fire your rapid plasma gun. The sound 
 effects are terrific. You can hear your opponent if he has his railgun in hand. Music isn't very 
 interesting... but you should be concentrating anyway.
  
  VALUE 10/10
  
  You will find this game for very a cheap price. It's definetly worth it. I have clocked up about 
 300hours and it was never boring, there are many modes and changes you can make. Every opponent 
 will be a real person so it will always be different, plenty of replay value.
  
  ------
  
  I give this game a 9.8. It definetly is one of the best online games and i will definetly keep 
 playing this. It will have you hooked... newcomers to online FPS should definetly start from here. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bgrotha
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 5, 2006 10:09 am PT
Review:  Quake III arena is one of the most engaging FPS games to date IMO. Not because it has an enthralling 
 single player, but it's online multiplayer is the most brutal, basic, and skillful thing you will 
 ever play. It takes the old multiplayer of Quake II and gives it a few twists and turns, plus an 
 enormous amount of content that Id software includes, as well as content available for download 
 by users who make their own. The Quake III Arena community is quite interactive. Not the menus, 
 but the levels are so small, and so complete, that it feels like your sort of in the world of Quake 
 III. After you lose or win this match, you have to proceed to another area/ map. Speaking of maps, 
 there are an infinite number of maps for Quake III. Most are quite well designed though. Very few 
 maps actually suck. The weapons have changed around a tad bit. Subtracting a few, and adding others. 
 No more nail gun, no more chain gun, no more hyper blaster, no more hand grenades, no more pistol 
 : (. But you did get a plasma gun! Plus all the others are still here, even the rail gun and BFG10K! 
 Isn't that great? The graphics have updated a good deal. Not too much since Quake II only came 
 out half a year or so before Quake III, but good enough. The blood effects are astounding I might 
 add! A huge amount of server modifications are available. There are servers of every type. Straight 
 up Quake III Arena servers, modified servers, of servers made for a specific type of Quake III 
 Arena, such as CPMA mode which is meant for players who want to 1v1 in Quake III. The Quake III 
 gameplay is fast, furious, brutal, and basic, but still takes time to get good with. As basic as 
 it is, some players no how to use the weapons in the game to get the instant kill needs. YOu need 
 to take time and learn how to counter that. PRACTICE PRACTICE PRACTICE. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slayer_Sam
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 4, 2006 2:27 am PT
Review:  It's a bit of a daunting task to sit down and review an id game. No other games have quite the 
 fanatical following nor the sharp polarisation of views. id themselves, despite being quite a normal 
 software developer internally, are so revered to this day that they remain the last of the famous 
 rock star developers. EuroGamer's editor, Gestalt, last week took an initial look at Quake III 
 Arena with the wider viewpoint of how the game fits into the global scheme of things. I'd like 
 to try sum up Quake III Arena in the same way, but also take a look at how the game shapes up for 
 those folks, like me, that treat FPS games as a way of life rather than 'just another game'. Traditionally 
 I kick off reviews with a bit of background, but I'm sure that everyone is familiar with id's past 
 legendary works, so far so I'll cut to the chase - Quake III Arena is a strange hybrid of supremely 
 polished first-person shooter evolution and a burning desire to have it appeal to the broader gamer. 
 It's a bit odd, but I mean that in a good way... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: julioykaly
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 31, 2006 8:21 am PT
Review:  Quake 3 Arena is one of those unique single/multiplayer games. It through the player in an arena 
 to fight against the computer in single player, yet each character having its own characteristics, 
 abilities, skills and disadvantages in the arena. Choosing the right character in the options menu 
 could save the player a lot of trouble in a mid-gun, whether it is in speed, or in duration, having 
 improved the graphics from its last series quake 1 and 2, the game look fantastic, with outstanding 
 visuals, and environments. Most important feature of the game it is, its fast pace action that 
 deliver in a gun-fight, the player must adapt a certain effective, strategy to survive during a 
 gun-fight. Although it is a whole lots of fun playing this game in a tournament situation, but 
 it isnt a bad idea to go through the game several times in different difficulty modes, before 
 jumping into online multiplayer tournament, improving your skills. It is also recommended that 
 the player learns the maps very well, such as, where everything it is located such as, portals, 
 health, guns, etc 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tobiah
Rating: 9.8
Date: Sep 10, 2006 5:03 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay - If you want to have crazy fast paced deathmatches or CTF games, this is one of the best 
 choices out there, even today!
  
  Graphics - At the time of it's release, this game had jaw-dropping graphics, and they still look 
 very decent now!
  
  Sound - Hearing rockets blaze past your head and machine gun bullets hit the floor is music to 
 my ears.
  
  Value - If you plan on playing this game over the internet or at LAN parties than it has superb 
 value. If you are only interested in single player, it is still worth purchasing, but your will 
 not play it as much as you would the multiplayer.
  
  Tilt - I love this game and would recommend it to anyone looking for a great multiplayer FPS. Quake 
 4 is out but who cares? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lightwarrior179
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 11, 2006 1:16 am PT
Review:  Quake III: Arena is a perfectly best thing in the games dictionary that exactly tells you what 
 is an action game and what should it be exactly like. Quake III in matter wise has some changes 
 here and there in modes but the real breakthrough comes in the large arsenal of weapon and armor 
 that let's us break HELL loose upon the world of Quake.
  
  The game also shows an organised tier system which has got around three to five battles with various 
 characters and different maps. The sound isn't too exciting but when playing a game where rocket 
 launcher is breaking HELL who cares about music. The characters are brilliant and are all wellexplained 
 unlike Quake 2. Multiplayer is OMG! Great. Clans . Battles. Tournaments. Definetly a must play for 
 anyone who owns a PC!
  Let Hell and Nightmare defeat the good! HA HA HA. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ABOLZOZ
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 21, 2006 6:32 am PT
Review:  U can not say that the graphics of that game on its release date were beatable. It was the best 
 looking game ever..
  It was the best fanatic arcade like action ever seen in a shooter.
  Run; choose your most appropriate weapon, frag, repeat 
  The best death matching experience to 
 date 
  Simple yet brilliant.
  Easy to learn yet impossible to master.
  Extremely intelligent bots.
  Challenging: try to finish it in the single player mod at the nightmare 
 difficulty. Challenging yet very satisfyingI have finished it several times at the nightmare 
 level 
  ... quake 3.. No corners no sneaking no waiting no thinking just one thing: non stop Shooting 
 till you get fragged then repeat 
  
  Better than all the unreal tournament series (I dont know why, its just better, way better, u 
 just feel it) 
  The best quake to date better than quake 4 also 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: halofreak3487
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 19, 2006 6:17 pm PT
Review:  Quake 3 has some of the best graphics, sound, and AI in any FPS game i've ever seen.
  
  Graphics: Absolutely no slowness in this game, and the graphics great enough to let me identify 
 what i'm holding, or who i'm shooting at.
  
  Sound: Reminds me of Unreal, and the voices are really killer... literally. The music is great and 
 the weapon sounds are great also
  
  Gameplay: Quake 3's gameplay is very well done, the AI is very tough your really notice the difference 
 when you pump up the level (which i would not recommend for new players) .
  
  Quake 3 is very well done game overall, and is one hell of a classic game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AdrenalinDragon
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 16, 2006 9:53 am PT
Review:  Seven years ago, Quake 3 Arena was released. It truely lived up to the hype, and it's still a great 
 shooter. In fact, it's still one of my favourites, and I still play it after all these years. If 
 you want a shooter that's fun and satisfying then make sure it's this!.
  
  Quake 3 Arena is famous for it's fast deathmatch, and amazing graphics engine that still holds 
 up to this day. There's no doubt you'll be killing plenty of opponents on here, since the game 
 is focused on deathmatch. However, there are capture the flag modes as well. All the guns in this 
 game are great, such as the BFG, the Rocket Launcher, and the Shotgun. There's something for everyone 
 in Quake 3 Arena.
  
  What's remarkable about Quake 3 Arena however, is the engine the game uses. Literally, any computer 
 could handle this game with a smooth frame rate, and the action is always fast. When Quake 3 Arena 
 first came out I was just absolutely blown away by the graphics!. The sounds are great as well, 
 such as the blood gib noise that happens when you blow someone up. It's just hilarious!.
  
  However, Quake 3 Arena offers bots which you can use if you don't have the internet or don't like 
 playing online. These bots are great, and will offer you a challenge on the harder difficulties. 
 Online, there are plenty of game servers you can use to play, or if you would like to play by LAN 
 then you could also blow your friends up instead. It's great fun!.
  
  Quake 3 Arena is a must have game for all killing fans. If you're also a FPS fan then make sure 
 you own this game. What's also great about this game is that you don't need a CD to play! (after 
 you install it) . Make sure you get this and place it in your awesome PC collection, you'll be glad 
 to have it in there. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gta11
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 6, 2006 1:25 am PT
Review:  Quake 3 Arena For PC.
  
  Way back in the mid 1990s little known games developer ID software, lead by John Carmack and John 
 Romero were about to unleash, what would become on of the most famous games ever to come out. Doom. 
 The two had previously worked on many other games, including commander keen (if my memory serves 
 me correctly) . Doom instantly recived much attention, from the media due to its violent and realistic 
 (well for the time) content. But it received the most attention from gamers world-wide. For it 
 was an excellent game, revolutionising the First person Shooter, which had been made mainstream 
 by Wolfenstien 3D. After the great DOOM, came its sequel, DOOM 2: Hell on Earth. Doom 2 was loved 
 just as much as the first. A few years later came the first mainstream 3D polyagonal First Person 
 Shooter, Quake. It was well received, but not quite as popular as Doom or Doom 2. Quake, like Doom 
 and Doom 2 was basically, shoot everything in your path, get keys, open doors and progress. Quake 
 2 came along soon after, and again, the same idea was in place. Nintendo/Rareware released Goldeneye, 
 which was to revolutionise First Person Shooters once again, adding objectives and stealth. Goldeneye 
 was, and still is one of the best game created, to date. Did ID software pick up on the fact that 
 goldeneye was the way to go in first person shooters, and try to imitate its godlyness? 
  Not at all. They decided to go their own way. 
  For starters, Quake 3: Arena was designed as 
 a fully mulitplayer game. So would Quake 3: Arena become the next step evolutionally speaking in 
 first person shooters? Or perhaps just be a great game? Or turn out to be average? Or perhaps be 
 awful? Time to find out.. 
  
  Gameplay : IT MOVED! QUICK! SHOOT IT! *kavhooooooooooo* (rocket launcher) *PPPFFFFRTTTT* (gibs) . 
 Yes people, that is pretty much the idea of Quake 3: Arena. If it moves, kill it, and kill it good. 
 
  
  First up, let me tell you about the gibsone of the most important elements of Quake 3: Arena 
 :P 
  
  When you shoot someone with a powerful weapon, their body, rather than just falling into a lifeless 
 heap, will explode in a glorious spray of read chunks, some bone and a lot of blood. 
  The gibs are extremely satisfying, and makes killing people that whole lot more fun. 
  The gibs 
 are soooo satisfying in fact, that just about every body I see that wasnt already turned into 
 a pile of gibs at death, I take the liberty of getting out a powerful weapon, and shooting, just 
 because of how much I looooooove the gibs. 
  
  Now that Ive got that out of the way 
  
  Quake 3: Arena, although designed primarily as an online multiplayer game, does have an offline 
 single player mode. 
  
  There is a bit under 30 levels to play in. With the first being a training level, and the last 
 pretty much a boss level. You can play with up to 6 or 7 other CPU controller players in single 
 player (if I remember correctly) . There are 5 difficulty levels, ranging from one as easy as a 
 walk in the park, to the almost impossible, no, make that actually impossible :) . The single player 
 component of Quake 3: Arena will keep you going for a few weeks if you are lucky, but is really 
 only practice for where the real Quake 3: Arena takes placeonline. 
  
  Nothing beats playing online against, or with, a handful of other Quake freaks. Its just so damn 
 fun. You can taunt each other, plot out team tactics, secretly gang up on someone and so much more. 
 
  
  You have the Gauntlet, which most people use only in cases of desperation, because it is the lowest 
 weapon down the order, though, only two hits from the gauntlet will render anyone dead, which is 
 why I often use it. Its only drawback is that it can only be used at extremely close range. 
 
  Youve also got the Shotgun, Plasma Rifle, Machine gun (which is crap) , Rocket Launcher, Rail 
 Gun, Grenade Launcher, Lightning Gun and the BFG. 
  The weapons are varied quite well, and are all useful at different times (besides the machine gun 
 that is, which for some reason had been seriously underpowered) . 
  
  There are also items in game, one will give you 4 x damage, one will teleport you to another location, 
 one will make you invisible, one will make you invincible and many other items, with different 
 uses can also be found. 
  The online play in Quake 3: Arena, as I said is where its at. The only problem, in my opinion 
 is the fact that if you arent on a super fast connection, you will lag, and lag bad. This will 
 give you a distinct disadvantage against players on a faster connectoin, because when you fire, 
 it will take a good few second for your weapons fire to reach its target, making you usually 
 have to think ahead, and shoot in the hope that your fire will hit wherever the person you are 
 shooting at will end up. 
  
  Sure, Quake 3: Arena is excellent fun to play even on a slow connection, like 56k, but it is highly 
 recommended that you have a much faster connection to play over. 
  
  
  Graphics : Id recommend having a decent PC to play this on. While it looks good on older PCs, 
 its nothing compared to playing at 60 frames per second, with 32 bit textures, at 1280 x 1024. 
 Quake 3: Arena features some very sexy graphics, and if you have a PC that can handle them you 
 will be very impressed. The textures are highly detailed, the character modles look nice, the levels 
 are fairly big, and look very good and the special effects are purdy too. But the best graphical 
 effect, by far would have to be the gibsyes, the gibs. While, having a low polygon count, the 
 gibs still look great, they feature detailed textures, and are richly coloured. 
  
  As long as you have a decent PC (Id recommend about a 750Mhz Athlon, with 128mb ram and a Geforce 
 or better Graphics card to be able to run the game perfectly) then you have one damn sexy looking 
 game. 
  
  
  Sound : First up, get to the options menu and set the sound to high quality. Now that youve done 
 that I can get on with this part of the review. 
  
  The sound effects do the job, but are noting special, well except for the gibsthey sound pretty 
 damn good :P The guns sound nice and varied, from the deep blast of the shotgun, to the. Well 
 its hard to describe but the sound of the plasma gun sounds just right, the lightning gun sounds 
 like a constant strike of lightning too. The other sound effects, while there arent a great deal 
 are decent. 
  
  The music in Quake 3: Arena isnt very noticable. Its mostly a mix of rock and techno. Some of 
 the time you there is any music at all, but mostly it will just sink into the background, and do 
 nothing more than exist You certainly wont be writing home along the lines of WOW, the music 
 in Quake 3 is awesome. 
  
  The quality of the sound effects and music is pretty good (on high quality mode) , and its crisp 
 and clear. 
  
  This is where its all at. Quake 3: Arena, as the name hints was designed purely as a multiplayer 
 game. 
  The offline component as I said before is merely practice for online play. 
  Ill try to keep this short and simple.. 
  Quake 3s multiplayer is great. Its fast, furious 
 and fraggin fun. There isnt much that beats playing online against a good 7 other people in a 
 game that has been deigned purely to do just that. 
  Ive gotta hand it to ID software, they certainly knew what they were doing when they made Quake 
 3: Arena. 
  
  
  If youre like me, youll be addicted to the online component of Quake 3: Arena literally for months. 
 When I first got the game I spent weekend after weekend up till about 5:00 or 6:00am playing because 
 I was hooked. I really couldnt get enough of it. Id say I was playing for a good 3 months before 
 I started to tire.. 
  
  Even now, I still give Quake 3: Arena a play now and then, and still love every minute of it. 
 
  
  Some people will get sick of the game quicker than others, but this is one of the great online 
 games, and Im sure in another 5 years you will still be able to log onto a Quake 3 server and 
 find quite a few addicts, still playing. 
  
  
  There are 5 difficulty levels in single player. The easiest difficulty, is like it should be, rather 
 easy. The difficulty levels gradually increase in difficulty, until the last difficulty level, 
 which is practically impossible. If you can manage to actually complete more than about 5 levels 
 on the highest difficulty level then you are a freak! :P..*counts* Damn, I said difficulty a 
 LOT in that paragraph oh well 
  
  The faster your internet connection, the easier multiplayer will be. On a 56k modem, it can take 
 up to 3-5 seconds for say a rocket you shot to actually launch for its target. So you have to think 
 ahead. That can be a real pain in the ass. But if youve got a lightning fast connection (T1 is 
 fair enough :P) then shooting will be almost instant. 
  It also depends on the people you are playing against, and their skill level, as well as internet 
 connection. You dont want to be the only 56k player in a group of 8 do you? 
  
  Here, I tell you about the mods (no not the ones who delete messages :P) . You can download mods 
 off the internet. These range from new skins for characters, totally new characters, new textures 
 for levels, completely new levels using existing textures, completely new levels using new textures, 
 new weapons, new sound packages and more. An example of a package is one where all of the characters 
 look like they are out of a western movie, all the levels look like they are from a western to 
 (bar/saloon levels) , the weapons are also from this time frame, and area and all of the music is 
 westerny too. 
  Mods add another dimension to Quake 3: Arena, and a whole lot more replayability too. 
  
  
 
  * Great graphics 
  * GIBS!!! 
  * The rocket launcher 
  * The BFG 10 000 
  * Gibs 
  * Lots of levels 
  * loads of cool mods to download 
  * Gibs 
  * Did I mention Gibs? 
  
 * Oh, and the Gibs too 
  
  * Multiplayer can be kinda laggy if you dont have a super fast internet connection 
  
  Buy! 
 Youll be hooked for ages playing Quake 3: Arena, its a great game that shouldnt be passed up 
 by anyone with a half decent PC. 
  Then again, youd be stupid to buy it if you didnt have an internet connection. 
  
  Quake 
 3: Arena is a truly great game. I dont need to say more. It should be owned by everyone. 
  If you dont own it already, get out an buy it now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LusikkaMage
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 28, 2006 5:01 pm PT
Review:  Not exactly the type of game you'd expect a 12 year old girl to love, but I used to play it all 
 the time back then, and I still do on occasion now that I'm 18. At LAN parties, I'll own at UT2k4, 
 but at home, I never play Unreal Tournament. If I need a FPS, I go to my old love. ;P
  
  Sure, it doesn't have fancy vehicles and it's pretty simplistic compared to other FPS games out 
 there these days, but it's always been fun for me. Part of what I like it IS it's simplicity.
 
  
  There aren't enough CTF maps that come with the game, but most maps are pretty sweet, and it still 
 looks decent even though it's about seven years old. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: someone6669
Rating: 1.3
Date: Jul 22, 2006 7:37 am PT
Review:  If you look at all the reviews from 1999, you will find people crazy about this game. Maybe it 
 was good then.
  
  However, in 2006, this game royally sucks. There is no depth into the game at all. All you do is 
 move, spot enemy, kill enemy (or be killed) , continue moving (or spawn) , repeat over and over and 
 over. It gets old really really fast
  
  Maybe this sort of gameplay was acceptable 1999, but now? 2006? come on! I bought the game about 
 2 months ago, and after a week or two, it was getting really really old!
  
  Here is another problem. The game was released 7 years ago. The people who are good at it, have 
 gotten exceptionally good at it. The people who suck at it, have left it forever. This means you 
 have no chance playing this game today. People now have 7 years of experience. Don't expect the 
 games to be even close! You will just get kicked in the butt over and over again. This is seriously 
 not fun. Unfortunately, the single player campaign is not fun either. The bots have inhuman precision, 
 and are not fun to play with.
  
  Overall, avoid this game like the plague. Maybe it worked in 1999, but today, it is hopeless. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: igl
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 19, 2006 9:22 pm PT
Review:  It is a myth to me, why there aren't any attempts to copy this game, because it can't get any better. 
 
  
  Sure it has no huge maps (it has as custom maps) no huge 64 player battles (not really makes a 
 good game) no fancy graphics (play with r_picmip 7 or stay noob) and no AK47 (spraying with colors 
 is more fun) .
  
  But It has physics that are reliable. It's fast, not chaotic and precise.
  It's Lag and bug-free. 
 Weapon are interesting and it's appealing to master each single one. Most addicting simple gameplay 
 mechanic which _works_ like no other game does. Most addicting stuck-free movement ever made. And 
 Slash/Yuriko.
  
  Thanks to ThreeWave, OSP and CPMA it assures you the best competitive gameplay and map-design ever. 
 Even in 2006.
  
  Even though it's pretty old by now, and even i took a few breaks from it, i just give up every 
 other game after a while and come back to it.
  Because it's the perfect mix of balance, precision and reward you can get.
  
  If q3 would be 
 a woman, i would be married. 
  (Best enjoyed at 125fps, 85HZ+,  50 Ping.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: relset
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 12, 2006 9:44 am PT
Review:  The best thing about Quake 3 is that my most hated genre before Q3 was first person shooters, I`ve 
 hated even the people who played FPS`s. Sadly later only I`ve discovered that I`ve lost many-many 
 good games from my blindness. My hatred affected even this awesome game, I don`t like it till the 
 moment when I`m played it first... and from that moment I`m a real FPS fan, and forgive for all 
 that words that I`m said in the past, first person shooters are great maybe I was jealous becouse 
 I do not have a PC good enough to run them :) so I say that Q3 is the best shooter ever, it`s even 
 can change my simple idea for games, maybe unreal tournament was as great as Q3.
  I like it becouse it`s an Ultra fast shooter with tons of actions per minute. I think that never 
 will be as fast and compact shooter like this, many people said that do not have a story, I can 
 tell you sincerly that I`ve never missed one, this game is perfect as it is. There are three games 
 that are perfect as they are, one of them is Q3, I`ve never wondered about mods or patches to improove 
 it becouse I like it in the way it is. Yet again I can say that I don`t know how many times I`ve 
 finished it, starting from the first dificulty, later I`ve reached the Nightmare only level, and 
 this one is the only game that I`ve played at professional level, there are only a few people in 
 my town who can beat me.... oh liked that :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JaMMiE_D
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 25, 2006 4:13 pm PT
Review:  Quake 3 Arena is eassilly my most played game. Not my favourite anymore (Quake 4 is :P) , but probably 
 the most fun experience you can have, Ever. You have to defeat opponents who move with extreme 
 procision, and deadly accuracy. Half the time its luck if you hit someone with the railgun, and 
 the other half is skill.
  Quake 3's Gameplay is without a doubt, the most simple and fun way to use a computer ever. All 
 these game nowerdays with rediculous complex things. Take FEAR for example. It is a fantastic game, 
 in every way. The multiplayer is fun, but look. If you would be to have the slowmo powerup in a 
 deathmatch, you will have to do three things. First things first, is enable the slowmo. Then you 
 would have to zoom in for accuracy. After that, you can shoot. Quake 3 is far better. You see someone, 
 you shoot.
  I will quickly run b the other stuff. Graphically, it is superb. The textures can be very sharp, 
 probably sharper than most. The sounds are awesome. On q3ctf4, when you use the long acceleration 
 pad in the center, and you shoot halfway in the air, you hear the most awesome and realistic use 
 of the doppler effect.
  All I can say to sum-up, is if this isnt in your collection, you have to get it now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vadim_261992
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 24, 2006 9:55 pm PT
Review:  I'll tell you a bit about this game below.
  
  Gameplay:
  Though the game was made in 1999, the gameplay remains amazing all throughout the uake series, 
 Quake III Arena has all of the Quake I components to it, so it's very entertaining. What i'm saying 
 is that you can not get bored of this game, because the multiplayer feature just makes you want 
 to play even more..
  
  Graphics:
  For a particularly old game, Quake III Arena has pretty impressive graphics for it's age. At some 
 moments the GFX man be a little too exadurating, for example if you shoot a dead body all you will 
 see is a bunch of skulls flying in you face and blood that sort of looks like red fog. Aprt from 
 that the graphincs are very well done.
  
  Sound:
  The sound in this game is OK... I say that because it varry's, some sounds sound really well and 
 real buy others just sound pathatic. But I will let you see for yourself.
  
  Overall, I think that a lot of players that have played and enjoyed the past Quake series will 
 really like playing this game :D
  
  9.8/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Digital-Devil
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 16, 2006 9:03 pm PT
Review:  I've had Quake 3 for about...5-6 years now... and i've gone through a few UT games since, Halo games, 
 and a few other FPS's. But honestly when it comes down to just balls to the wall shooting fun Quake 
 3 wins for me. The most fun i have ever had playing online is playing on some of the UK Demon servers, 
 it is even fun to just watch people play and read what is said. I see my self playing Quake 3 for 
 many years to come. I wish Quake 4 had taking more pages from Quake 3 as far as online feel and 
 what not, only problem is it CAN be a bit glitchy if you are online and someone with REALLY bad 
 internet signs on, other than that and a some online cheaters this is a great game and worth getting 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ajca
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 14, 2006 7:09 pm PT
Review:  Quake III is the ultimate deathmatch. Quiet simply this level of pure deathmatch intensity had 
 been matched since its release, only by Team Arena. Still, and generation after its release friedsn 
 adn I still get together, LAN all our comps on my ping pong table and shoot each other til' we 
 explode is gibs. Despite its age, the game hasn't lost any value, I'de still willingly deal out 
 the 50$ to buy it. But what its age does gice you, is the ability for my old computers to run it 
 at a constant 90 fps, which is a life saver in any game which requires reaction speeds as fast 
 as q3, in order to survive. I dumped my dell wireless mouse and keyboard because they were too 
 slow for this game. 
  
  Its worhtwhile to mention that the q3 engine has been the core for many other great games such 
 as CoD, RTCW, and Jedi Outcast and more. I incourage you to spend the 10$ on amazon and get the 
 gold edition, which includes q3 and team arena. Sure you get destroyed until you get the hang of 
 it, but Quake III still stands as the uncontested ultimate deathmatch game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Clan_RoK
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 5, 2006 5:39 am PT
Review:  =Quake 3 arena=
  
  =Gameplay=
  Quake 3 is very easy for begginers to get frags.... this means they have fun and ultimatly stay 
 to play longer to get more skilled thus the game has alot of competition. The gameplay is sleek 
 with weapons being rarther balenced and strafe jumping adding some skill in there. Everything just 
 seems right in this game.7/10
  
  =Graphics=
  Even good for today... the lighting engine is good, the textures are crisp and charecters look 
 good, even if the models have got a low poly count.... the textures make up for it. ammo cases, 
 healt packs, powerups all have good shine on them and fit it with the enviroments. 
  overall good graphics 7/10
  
  =Sound=
  The guns feel robust and powerful all good on the 
 sound front.
  8/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DuaMn
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 28, 2006 9:08 am PT
Review:  Hi sanmyorum. nk bu imdiye kadar yaplm en hzl, en 
 zevkli ve en basit multiplayer FPS oyunu. Bu oyun ilk piyasaya ktndan 
 beri oynuyorum (bu aa yukar yedi yl yapar) ve imdiye  
 tek bir dakika hatrlamyorum. Bu oyunu oynayp zevkine varana o andan onra Half 
 Life, Counter Strike falan hikaye gibi gelir. Gerek hzn zevki ve FPS nin gerek anlam 
 bu oyunda yatyor. Tek kelimeyle onluk bir oyun.
  
  Yeni yaplan modlar yardmyla oyunun mevcud hz kat kat arttrld 
 ve en iyi oyunculara bile ilk seferinde mide bulants verebilecek ve ba dnmesi 
 yaratabilecek bir hza  oyun. Ancak stabilitesinden tek bir 
 damla bile kaybetmedi. Online olarak multiplayer oynarken 56k balnat bile yeterli oluyor. 
 Bu kadar inanlmaz bir ey olamaz.
  
  Grafikler o kadar uyumlu ki oyunla anlatlamaz. Akcla byk bir katks 
 var ve oyun kt zaman byk yank bulmutu bu grafiklerin kalitesiyle.
 
  
  Eer bir FPS-severseniz ve bu yedi senelik mddette hala bu oyunu edinmediyseniz (ki hi sanmyorum) 
 daha fazla zaman kaybetmeyin, en doru zaman imdi! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nintendods1441
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 5, 2006 12:50 pm PT
Review:  when you have excessiveplus you can also play freez tag and more. But my best is freez tag. on 
 excessiveplus you have all the weapon already. you just have to learn how to use them all and set 
 all ur controlss to change different weapons. You can dowload excessiveplus from www. excessiveplus. net. 
 You need to know to how to use each weapon. exaple I usegreanade to launch my self. Anyway get 
 excessivelus the games much better. its hard first but you will get used to it when you watch the 
 other players. It takes quit a long time to learn how to be a good player. but it takes you like 
 40mins to get the hang of it. but everyday when you keep playing and practicing you get better. 
 And i think freez tag is the ebst. I also think that when you first get the game the single player 
 iss boring, but with excessiveplus and you go no singleplayer its not to bad. Differculty is very 
 hard for freez tag and excessiveplus. This game requies skill. This was one of my best games. Its 
 luck if you shoot them with the rail gun and acusary and skill with the bfg. And greanade of making 
 you high and shot gun for when you are close range and rail for long range.
  This is so great When you try and shoot at your opoment and jump away and rock. I rock on q3 :p. 
 I thrash everyone and most of the time first on the score :p. Me in clan Class. You can be a class 
 b class or c class an gues what i am, A class :p. My name on q3 is *A*CLASS*MADE. Also join thisclan 
 cause the pple are so nice in here. I have stopped playing q3 but soon i am gona get back in to 
 it. This is great great great. Also if any of you guys aint got excessiveplus download it now at 
 www. excessiveplus. net or download it off servers. This gane requies skill. You have to pick what 
 weapons you want to use and how to use them. Like what gun for launching and what gun for defending 
 and attacking. This is one of my best games. This game rocks!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Horus92
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 17, 2006 10:33 am PT
Review:  If you've read my Quake II review, you know how I feel about violent games, but I have to admit 
 that Quake III arena is a good and addictive game, but not one for playing for a long period of 
 time. "I'm bored, lets play Quake III" That's the style of it, because, in my case, after playing 
 a lot of time I got irritated and started getting headaches. Anyway, the game has really good graphics 
 when put to the best, but the sound gets pretty annoying. However, in my opinion Quake III arena 
 is just that: an arena, and to be better it should have incorporated the single player mission 
 style Quake II has, and I prefer to play Quake II, which is much better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Games
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 17, 2006 10:31 am PT
Review:  Have you ever wanted to play a game that can provide you the maximum death and agility then play 
 Quake III Arena. Better than Quake II Even better than Quake 4. Play it and have fun. Recomended 
 lvl of difficulty to start to become a good Quaker. Make youself a clan and learn tecniques to 
 play, use your weapons wisely. Try not to mess up. Never mind about quaddamage and all that stuff. 
 unless you are near it. never go looking for it., let it appear to you. Weapons to startand easy 
 tohandle. Shotgunand machinegun. then try using Rail gun and rocket. Finnally BFG.
  
  Have Fun and enjoy the game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cloudstrife145
Rating: 9.9
Date: Apr 7, 2006 4:21 pm PT
Review:  Quake 3 is, I gotta say one of the best games I ever played in the PC!! This 'deathmatch' kind 
 of a game is tons of fun! Even though without multiplayer! The skirmish and story mode is all fun! 
 The gameplay is AWESOME, the music is okay, the value is HIGH, and lots more that is AWESOME. This 
 game almost had it all! The challenge of the game is good..... you can play this game everyday without 
 getting bored of it.
  
  There are lots of characters to choose from!! Well for me, I use Sarge because he looks cool. ^_^ 
 Some of the characters look like aliens and some look like humans.
  
  This is a great game... I think it's the 2nd best firstplayer game ever! The first would be Counter-Strike.
 
  
  This game is a must buy game. Buy it now!! TRUST me!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aerosmith_Lova
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 31, 2006 5:06 pm PT
Review:  This game is awesome. The conrtols are quite easy to get the hang of. The graphics are amazing 
 (for the time this game was released) . The online play is very fun, big deathmatch and capture 
 the flag matchs are the best part.
  The single player is pretty fun too. You can either play skirmish, which is playing against the 
 computer (there are also little annoying things, for example in one capture the flag level , there 
 is a platform that moves from one base to the other, the computer will only hang out there making 
 easy sniping targets) . Or the "story mode" which is where you go through stages of a tournament. 
 Actual missions would be nice though. There are also 5 extroardordinary difficulties. Overall it's 
 a great game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UnrealGwar
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 29, 2006 8:50 pm PT
Review:  Quake 3 is an excellent game even compared to some modern games. The arena, fast-pace game play 
 is quite enjoyable. A lot of fps games go for realism now, but it is refreshing to play a far-out 
 imaginative game such as Quake 3. It might just be my copy of the game, but I am unable to program 
 the mouse-wheel to do anything. It is minor and it no longer bothers me though. Although it is 
 an excellent game, It's main rival- Unreal Tournament- has more options and just feels more solid. 
 This game makes me want to have been a PC gamer back in the late '90s. There were so many great 
 games back then, Half-Life, Unreal Tournament, Quake 3, etc. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stevenscott14
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 26, 2006 11:00 am PT
Review:  There's no question ID really know how to make a great FPS. Doom and Quake have pretty much revolutionized 
 the genre, and so it should be perfectly acceptable to say that Quake III is an instantly recommendable 
 FPS. That's a bit of an incomplete statement, though - anybody without an internet connection will 
 find Quake III to be a little thin on the ground in terms of content. The single-player is horrendously 
 short and there's nothing much else to keep your attention. But if you happen to own an internet 
 connection (of course you do, you're reading this review, aren't you?) then you will find Quake 
 III to be a fast-paced, explosive berserker of an FPS with lightning-quick gunplay and frenetic 
 firefights.
  
  There's not much to be said about Quake III's basic gameplay. It's a very simple game with about 
 three things to remember if you want to win. At its most simplistic level, Quake III revolves around 
 running all over the place and killing everything that moves. At its most complicated level, Quake 
 III revolves around running all over the place and killing everything that moves except your own 
 teammates. See, your team is in the same colour battlesuit as you, get it? So you don't shoot them. 
 
  
  So, yeah, some might find Quake III to be a little mindless. A game for the brainless people who 
 don't have the patience to play tactical shooters like Rainbow Six and Ghost Recon. But, frankly, 
 Quake III is an intense game to play and it's tricky to master, regardless of how simple the control 
 system is. The sheer speed of the game requires to use split-second thinking and reflexes quicker 
 than your average Lamborghini.
  
  And because the game is so fast, the fun factor is automatically ramped up. Face it, nobody wants 
 to shoot things while walking through 3 inches of treacle, do they? No... and that's why Quake 
 III is so enjoyable - it's instantly satisfying and endlessly accessible - you can easily slip 
 into a game of Deathmatch whenever you feel like it. In fact, it's Sunday today and I woke up and 
 started to play this heavily eye-opening shooter. Who said "Easy like Sunday morning?" 
  
  Yet despite the lightning-quick enjoyment you can get out of this FPS, there is also a few problems 
 and niggles in the game that it trips up on. For one, the game can get stale if you play it excessively 
 - as I said before, you can easily slip into a game of Deathmatch whenever you feel inclined, but 
 play a lengthy game and you'll find your concentration and interest wavering, before it ebbs out 
 completely and you find yourself losing all your satisfaction. The game simply doesn't have enough 
 variety to keep you going for extended periods of time - as I've already mentioned, all you do 
 is run around and kill things. And basically nothing else. 
  
  Another thing I feel forced to mention is the arena design. Most of them look exactly the same 
 as the next, and almost all of them are pretty poorly created. They all retain a washed-out, hellish, 
 apocalyptic look to them, but there's only so much you can take of magma and deformed statues. 
 Please, ID, look at the diverse levels in games such as Unreal Tournament or Halo, and then please 
 rethink. 
  
  But one flaw that dominates above all else is the fact that this really isn't worth a buy for people 
 who don't play online. The single-player takes 2-3 hours, and it's an add-on at best. Come on, 
 you can't even have individual saves, and you can click a Reset button to erase your data! It's 
 a flimsy set of increasingly frustrating matches and it really doesn't cut it for people who play 
 on their own with the lights off.
  
  So let's talk about the graphics. Quake III is pretty good on the visual side of things, retaining 
 a suited apocalyptic, hellish styling to them. Its favourite colour is orange, and this shade really 
 fits into the gameplay. A lot of the arenas have dark names and doomed backstories to them. The 
 level design is very repetitive, even if every inch is stunning. 
  
  The lighting is very eerie in some places - a lot of it comes from demonic torch brackets that 
 hang from the bloodstained walls. Every environmental effect adds up to one hell of a dingy, dark 
 atmosphere - the type of atmosphere where you expect grotesquely deformed clowns to come running 
 out of a corner plasma-gun blazing. The character models, on that matter, are superb and excellently 
 varied. 
  
  And then there's the sound. Quite frankly, Quake III isn't much of an aural journey - there's some 
 tedious music and ambient tunes, and some gun sounds that come out of the folder containing "GenericGunfire. wma". 
 The voice-overs are sometimes quite amusing, but don't expect anything too special from this game. 
 
  
  In conclusion, Quake III's brilliance depends on where you stand as a gamer. If you're a consistent 
 online player, you will find Quake III to be a constantly enjoyable shooter. Everyone else will 
 find the game underwhelming - there isn't enough content to warrant a long-lasting, memorable experience. 
 It's very thin on the ground in some places, and Quake III could have used an extra coat of polish, 
 but as far as multiplayer shooters go, Quake III is somewhere near the top of the pile, even in 
 an overcrowded genre such as this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: perlox
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 20, 2006 3:43 pm PT
Review:  This was a great game for its time because it really defined multiplay gaming when the industry 
 was getting on its feet. It rose above the rest and brought classic frag fest into everyones home.
 
  The gameplay was simple FPS that we've all come to know. The grpahics and sound were decent for 
 the time.
  Pros: Easy to break and play for free. Many mods and maps to get your hands on. Low latency servers 
 all over the net still running as of 2006!
  This is an instant classic FPS that should have been a part of any gamers life and even non-gamers. 
 So enjoy quake 3, a revolutionary title that still sparks enjoyment years later. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gunman357
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 19, 2006 8:18 pm PT
Review:  Quake 3 is a AWESOME multiplayer game, and it sets a standard for what multiplayer online games 
 should be like.
  
  Although it came out in 1999, hundreds of people still play it today, which is saying alot, cause 
 normally, after 7 years, who would want to play a outdated FPS game??? Alot of people still play Quake 
 3. So if you buy it, you won't be dissapointed.
  
  The graphics at the time were great, seeing that it was one of the first multiplayer based online 
 FPS games, having 30 people play on one map did'nt seem like too much, because people did'nt have 
 to deal with much lag.
  
  The sound on this game is awesome, you can hear rockets whizz past your head, and you can hear the 
 footsteps of your enemies as they approach.
  
  Although it was multiplayer based, it still has a single player mode, which you can fight countless 
 (and sometimes brutal) computer controlled enemies.
  
  If your looking for a awesome online multiplayer based game, Quake 3 should be on your list.
  
 
  ~gunman357~ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: naztwelve
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 25, 2007 12:14 pm PT
Review:  like 7 years since it came out i finally played this. and wow it is giving me highs... this game 
 rocks, theres minimum **** talk for all those people who are sick of internet phreaks who die over 
 a loss &amp; the fragging is beaut... all defies gravity and logic in the jumping and 'lightning' 
 like jumps. i especially love team rail freeze games, and rail capture the flags. (as you can c 
 i like railing :$) the only weapon i think is good and bad is the rocket launcher, good how it 
 fires like in real life... ie. take forever but also bad in that respect. but i cant run quake 
 4 or fear and stumbled upon this when someone had put it on our college server and we were playing 
 a LAN of this in class **** and then i came home and thought.... hey i might download this. once 
 i hit the internet.. well lets just say ill have something to look forward to when i go home 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Advocate
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 16, 2006 4:05 am PT
Review:  I was given a $50.00 gift certificate for having been at my employer for five years. A reward for 
 hanging around the job when so many others had left. I didn't really know what to do with the Gift 
 Certificate, it was for the local Mall, so I called a friend, or at least I though he was a friend, 
 and he and I drove over to the mall. 
  
  As friends go, this guy was one of them that fell into the "keep your friends close, but your enemies 
 closer" catagory. He was a weasel little back stabber who would sell you out in a second if he 
 could profit from it. Despite this, he had several good qualities to him, he was smart, he fun 
 to hang around, and he and his wife got along well with me and my girl friend. 
  
  He had just been fired from the same place that I worked, he had it coming for many reasons, and 
 having something to do with his demise at work, I kinda felt sorry for the little SOB and wanted 
 to cheer him up. So we headed off to the local mall and bought Quake III with MY gift certificate.
 
  
  Since my PC was on the fritz I agreed to allow my friend to install the game on his. He had the 
 latest video card, a huge monitor, and a fast PC. The game was utterly breath taking. Talk about 
 thrilling ones senses. From the moment the game started you just knew that this game was an instant 
 classic.
  
  Sure it didn't have any single player aspects, asided from the bots, but what it lacked, it made 
 up for in so many epic ways.
  
  The game was such a thrill ride they should have charged a per use ticket price whenever a person 
 logged on to play.
  
  I was so damned excited about playing the game that I broke out the old credit card, you know the 
 one, the one with the 26.99% interest rate compounded secondly, and rushed over and bought the 
 replacement parts, a new video card, and a new mouse for my ailing PC. I ran home, fixed my PC, 
 and ran back over to my buddies home to get my game.
  
  Now this is where it gets complicated, you see, since it was installed on his computer, the game 
 was technically his. Or so he argued. I told him that the game was mine and that he would have 
 to buy his own copy. Well that did not float with him. After a bit of a tuff, I left swaring to 
 never again trust or befriend him. About a week later he shows up at my house and gives me what 
 he claims to be a new copy of the game. It was not, it was a used copy complete with scratch on 
 the disk and a broken jewel case. Oh well, live and learn.
  
  I played Quake 3 for many years, became very addicted to it and was quite good at it. But in the 
 end, lost interst. It was a great joy ride of epic proportions and one that I will hopefully never 
 forget. 
  
  Lesson learned.... don't be nice to people. Just frag em and move on.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bodboy466
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 6, 2006 6:36 pm PT
Review:  A very simple game to figure out with a high replay value, Quake III for its time was extremely 
 cool. I still think it's cool. 
  
  The basic idea behind this game is to take the guns that a level gives you and blow away everybody 
 in it until you hit the goal before one of your opponents do at which point you can move on to 
 the next level. Actually you usually have the choice of one of four levels in a tier to fight in, 
 but you have to beat all four in order to go to the next tier where you will fight yet another 
 four levels to move to the next tier. 
  
  There are many guns in this game to pick from including the shotgun, the rocket launcher, the lightning 
 gun and several more. The graphics of this game are very nice and the particle effects of the guns 
 are very nice as well. The music is very fitting, the sound effects are nothing I see any problems 
 with, and the grunts, battle cries, death cries et cetera are nothing I'd complain about and might 
 even compliment. The game can be very funny at times with phrases such as "You're lucky- I was 
 aiming for your brain. Impossible shot." I've found myself laughing at the computer many times 
 because of quips such as this. 
  
  The multi-player in this game is very easy to get into: they don't use too many technical on-line 
 terms or vernacular and if you've had practice off-line then you won't be called an amateur or 
 be subject to the dreaded, childish name-calling that often takes place in multi-player games. 
 
  
  Overall, another good game as far as I'm concerned and although it won't necessarily go down in 
 the history books for any particular reason, it will always have a place in my collection 
::::::

::::::
UserName: woef
Rating: 7.8
Date: Feb 22, 2006 2:53 am PT
Review:  Hi im gonna tell you about Quake 3 arena, which i think is the worst game of the Quake universe 
 (thats my opinion) .
  But it aint bad!
  
  Gameplay:
  Good style of gameplay, with lots of weapons, replayable maps, online gameplay rocks.
  
  Graphics:
 
  Look good and runs smooth, even online no lag.
  
  Sounds:
  Average sounds, weapons dont sound very nice.
  
  Value:
  Best of all, replay value.
  
 
  Variety:
  Good variety, both online as single player.
  
  Online:
  Nice overall gameplay, keeps you playing for a few hours.
  
  The game is good, but the fact 
 that there is only a multiplay option against the AI or other players and no real campaign, that 
 bothers me.
  cya all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chriss1987
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 22, 2006 4:21 am PT
Review:  Quake 3 Arena is a great Online Shooter, and the gameplay is really good.
  You can choose different game modes, so everyone is happy and you wont get bored that fast. I prefer 
 DM (deathmatch) or TDM (team deathmatch) . 
  The graphics are good too, and it is highly addictive. I used to play this for hours and hours 
 with friends using voice communication. This makes the game more interesting. 
  There are also a lot of modifications for the game, including a Dragon Ball Z mod which is really 
 nice.
  
  I really recommend this game, it will give you a lot of hours or pleasure.
  
  Chris 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IGodofWarI
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 8, 2006 12:22 am PT
Review:  I don't ever think a game will top quake 3. The fast pasted action engross's the user. Violent 
 yet satisfying quake 3 pulls of some of the most action packed match's that will ever meet your 
 finger tips. Sounds of the weapons create a symphony of mayhem and death. The feeling of rocket 
 jumping over an opponent's head and just railing the c r a p out of him can not be beaten. Quake 
 3 has combined elements that make a game into a master piece, it can be learned in minutes, but 
 it takes a life time to master. Until the end of my days, quake will remain one of my favorite 
 games ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GizmoSimo
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 6, 2006 1:42 pm PT
Review:  Quake 3 is a sequel to the quake series but instead of taking you to the strogg universe it takes 
 you to a multiplayer only game that mixes some of the characters from Id most popular games and 
 other new characters in a fast paced multiplayer game , with modes like deathmatch and capture 
 the flag this game will have you playing it for hours , enjoy it with your friends , frag them 
 in a 4 controller game madness .
  
  The game also counts with a storyline mode which is basically deathmatch against the AI , but the 
 AI ain't dumb and it gets harder as you switch difficulty and as you get to the last levels on 
 the game .
  
  I cannot count how much time i spent playing this game , but this will always be one of my favorites 
 and i can say my friends enjoyed it too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shatilov
Rating: 7.9
Date: Sep 22, 2006 5:33 am PT
Review:  The Good : Tremandous graphics , that throws you to the edge of reallisim , also to the great multiplayer 
 mod that it contain , they focused on the Multiplayer &amp; left the singleplayer campaign to a 
 series of challenges were you have to fight throught each level in a single deathmatch against 
 AI .You can also play a single player game were you play with the AI as if you are playing with 
 humans ( free for all , deathmatch , capture the flag , time limit , etc ... ) The Bad : Id had 
 focused so much on the multiplayer which made it forget about the single player campaign , they 
 made it a deathmatch fight in each level , so in otrher words , the storyline sucks , as to the 
 graphics they were so real at that time which made them forget all about the sound , which appears 
 to be dull &amp; lame . At the end I dont think that the person should buy it if he want to play 
 alone ( single player ) cuz it is bad , but if he wants to play it Online or LAN he should defenitly 
 buy it . But now we are in 2006 , 7 yrs had passed &amp; the 4 installment is now available , but 
 in this installement , they made a true &amp; more cutting edge graphics &amp; the sound was way 
 better &amp; but this time the multiplayer sucked because it is built on this engine ( Quake III 
 Arena (mod) ) is the multiplayer , you are playing Quake III instead of Quake IV . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: freakzilla_007
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 2, 2006 10:42 am PT
Review:  Quake franchise is gereatest ever. there will be no game which can put up a match with quake III 
 and win it. one can't have more games like it in 1 life.
  it's real fun to play it and have excellence in it. but once you r hardcored no 1 can touch u.
 
  ofcource a great game to play and play a lot.
  
  Frag away.
  take care now,,,,,,,,,,,,
  bye bye 
 
  
  Quake franchise is gereatest ever. there will be no game which can put up a match with quake III 
 and win it. one can't have more games like it in 1 life.
  it's real fun to play it and have excellence in it. but once you r hardcored no 1 can touch u.
 
  ofcource a great game to play and play a lot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snake289
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 2, 2006 8:23 am PT
Review:  quake 3 arena was made for mutiplayer, the single player doesnt have a story really its just deathmatch 
 with bots really which sucks, the mutiplayer is the thing which u should buy this gamee for, the 
 grapics look a bit aged now but it still looks alright (lots of games did use its engine) , the game 
 is best on deathmatch really all the other modes like ctf r ok but this game doesnt seem like a 
 team game really but u can use team commands but all the modes like ctf and team deathmatch should 
 have been in team arena but i never see people on the team arena servers anymore which is odd so 
 if u get this game play on deathmatch theres still lots of servers out there with people on them! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mike-y
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 20, 2006 4:41 pm PT
Review:  Lets face it. Everyone loves Quake. and quake III is another title in the quake seris to be loved. 
 Quake III is a bit more of a improvement from Quake and QuakeII which were still both good games. 
 Quake 3 offers highly addictive firefights, and different modes of gameplay. You can choose to 
 play a campain, or go head to head with freinds in some of the best multiplayer deatmatching I 
 have ever seen! The weopon's in this game are also cool. there are machine guns, lightning guns, 
 flametrowers, and lasers. The weopons also can not only kill your foes, but gain you points for 
 example: if you use the gauntlet a few times to kill enemies you can score a series of points for 
 it. Or if you frag somone with a laser, you guessed it, you get points for it. The levels in this 
 game are sometimes boring but can be interacted with. Each charachter also has detail and can have 
 good A. I but sometimes, the A. i gets stupid. Overall this game is great! Another good thing about 
 this game is there are alot of mods, and totol coverstions so If youre still not intrested, you 
 can try the mods. If your a Unreal tournemnt lover or just a deathmatch lover this game is for 
 you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IMPACT_17
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 16, 2006 8:34 am PT
Review:  I like this game alot. The graphics are sorta good but, next to half-life's, could have been better. 
 The sound quality is perfect. Best sounds i ever heard in a video game. Though the little problem 
 is that the yells and the thumps are one sound. What if the bodies fly in the air? Would the create 
 a thump in the air? No. Special effects are awsome! The gibs are very realistic. Gotta love the 
 weapon design. Uses some of the origanal weapons from quake witch are mlea, rl, gl and shotgun. 
 And weapons from quake 2 such as railgun and bfg. The models are fun. From squeeling reptiles, 
 to metal heads, to guys on airboards. They're just fun.
  The maps are so cool. My favorites in Q3dm6 and Q3dm17. There very bouncy and fun. The gameplay 
 is so good. Feels as though you're some gladiator in a Arena of death. Anyway the single-player 
 is a little easy. I was able to beat the last level on lvel three diffulcuty easily, And I just 
 started playing! In all you must get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dack-
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 10, 2006 1:57 am PT
Review:  If you're a fan of FPS genre of games, You're proberly going to be familiar with the quake saga, 
 and the works of ID Software (Namely Doom and Wolfenstien 3d) ,
  Theres no doubt about it, that ID are the kings of the FPS genre, Inspiring modern day FPS such 
 as counter-strike, Half life, CoD (Run on the quake III engine i might add) and other titles. 
 
  
  Where to start, 
  Well, this game was made to be the ultiamte experience in online FPS gaming, and it is, I have 
 spend hundreds of hours playing this game for a long time, and it never gets old.
  Compaired to more modern FPS, such as CS were 10mins im bored outa my head for camping etc, Quake 
 offers the fastest gameplay available.
  
  There are many player made mods for online play, Including Instagib, Defrag and my personal favourite 
 freeze rails.
  Single player is lacking, but that was never the intension for quake III, if you want a single 
 player game in this genre go check quake, quake 2 and doom.
  
  Defiantly the best online FPS currently available.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jameso123
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 9, 2006 6:12 am PT
Review:  This game is a classic, Not just in the FPS style genre but in video games period!
  
  The only thing i can fault i can think with it, is its lacking a quality, single player, But who 
 cares this game was made to be played online.
  
  I cant recommend this game enough,
  Many people say that the game is dated, but i disagree, The game engine is revolutionary.
  
 
  Multiplayer mods, offer the ultimate online FPS experince including, Instagib, freeze rails and 
 defrag to name but a few.
  
  I simply cannot put this game down in any way, and would take forever to go into ever peice of 
 detial that makes this game a classic, Get it!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jmm0070
Rating: 10
Date: May 14, 2006 4:40 pm PT
Review:  WHAT I SAID BEFORE WAS NOT A JOKE! I HAVE MAPS LIKE MARIO STAGES; OBI WAN'S HOUSE;... WTF IS Q3WCP21 
 OR 22 OR... arrg! too much! 
  the great amout of maps, mods, models, codes, etc. is amazing. Single player is somehow easy in 
 nightmare, but its multi-player is realy wide. My quake III folder now is "heavier" than the one 
 of quake 4 full version (2.5 gigabytes) . and i don't have all the mods, maps, models, etc that 
 you can download. There are great ctf maps and great clan arena maps and great rocket arena maps, 
 etc. it's really amazing. if you had all the updates created by any guy your game would probably 
 "weigh" more than 8 gigabytes (maby 10) . If you want to know how this game really is please get 
 the full version and dowload mods, maps, etc from qzone, frag, quakeworld, etc. webpages. I WROTE 
 THIS AGAIN BECAUSE I FORGOT TO PUT THAT you have to play a lot of time to understand the game and 
 know the commands you need to config. you have a great liberty in changing the config. of your 
 game, thats cool too. there are millions of command with with you can even tell your life and armour 
 and were you are to your teammates with just clicking the button that you chose!!! You will like 
 some mods and you will dislike others, but this game has EVERYTHING YOU EXPECT FROM A MULTI-PLAYER 
 DEATHMATCH GAME AND EVEN MORE...
  
  If you play in MULTIPLAYER CAPTURE THE FLAG mode, you will be able to enjoy a great amount of mixed 
 emotions, tension, fun, anger, joy, etc. you'll need to organize your teams to captures the enemy 
 flag , defend your flag, and score carrying the stolen flag to yor flag. In my opinion, CTF is 
 the best mode in the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blood4Metal
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 27, 2005 8:19 am PT
Review:  I've had this game for a while now, and I still play it on occasions. The theme and style of the 
 levels are great. Most of the levels have a nice gothic or industrial style to them which really 
 makes up for what the game is. The weapons are very creative, the sound is great. The only thing 
 that put a downer on the game was the single player. Now don't get me wrong it was good, but I 
 would rather of suggested it stay the same such as in Quake I and II. I play it now only for the 
 multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zux2000
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 27, 2005 4:24 am PT
Review:  Yea, here it is, the last Quake game review! (I say last because I don't see Quake IV as a Quake 
 game, it should not even exist!)
  -
  I still play Quake III Arena time to time, (Not often anymore.) But in years I was a real hardcore 
 Q3 gamer! (Like I also was with the other two Quake games.)
  I finished the game on Nightmare in singleplayer mode a LOT of times (because I couldn't play on 
 Internet, it lag, because I had 56k modem in some years) . So my living was to play Q3 Arena in 
 singleplayer, or with friends on LAN. -That was ofcourse the funniest thing! (Often at least once 
 time at mounth we played in LAN.) 
  I played all the three games on the same period; Quake 1, Quake II and Quake III Arena very much. 
 On internet it was the first two games and singleplayer and LAN it was mostly Q3. But about 3 years 
 after I got Q3 I also got ADSL, at last! So ofcourse, I started to play, and play, and play on 
 internet, and this game, you can't be tired of, because it's a multiplayer game, so perfect it 
 can be, and it's always happen new different things, because you met new resistances. 
  
  The graphic was the best you could find in a game when it came, and is still a beutiful vision 
 to your eyes... Quake III Arena is perfect! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Caliban94
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 23, 2005 8:22 am PT
Review:  This game is AMAZING!!! The graphics for a 1999 game!!! HOLY F****N S**T!!! the best graphics for 
 its year. period. I'mn not saying the single player is any good, but who plays single player anymore?? 
 I DON'T!! MULTIPLAYER IS THE SHINE!!!! PLAY IT!!! F**K SINGLE PLAYER!!!!
  The guns are great!!! perfect for the series. 32 deathmatch online!!!!??? CRAZY!!!! its so unbeliveable!!! 
 you could this game so cheap now, like 5$
  Or, if you want to update? QUAKE 4!!!!! 50X BETTER, BEGTTER GUNS, BETTER ENEMIES, BETTER LEVELS, 
 WAYYY BETTER MULTIPLAYER!!!
  Both are INSANE!!!!! buy them both!!!! FOR A COLLECTION!! omfg, i'm telling you, the controls, 
 like quake 4, you can customize for your own feel. another perfect game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarklordIII
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 5, 2005 8:57 pm PT
Review:  Unlike most games I get where I pop into Gamestop to get the latest and greatest, this game I found 
 in WalMarts home entertainment department for 9.95. Having promised myself to never miss out on 
 a good shooter, I forked out 10 bucks and took it home.
  
  I loaded it onto my gaming PC to find the graphics, in default state, archaic at best. However, 
 after cranking them to the absolute maximum, I found them to be rather nice for a 10 dollar game. 
 
  
  Being an older game it has more basic graphics, far ahead of their time, and, on max display on 
 a plasma TV, still look damn good. THe gameplay - both on and offline - is solid. You can tell 
 by the loading screen this is no stay at home afternoon killer; this game is BUILT for LAN parties. 
 And so I tried it out. Cranked out a couple buddies and their laptops, got together, and found 
 Quake 3 to be incredibly stable even running 8 computers. Online multi is incredible. All in all, 
 this game was lightyears ahead of its time, and I thank God I found it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kokojambo
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 31, 2005 4:46 pm PT
Review:  I never really could get into Quake 3. Being a longtime TFC player, I wanted to see how QTF was. 
 I bought a copy off ebay for pretty cheap and installed it. I was pretty disappointed to find out 
 that hte community was almost deserted by the time that I tried to play. It was interesting to 
 see how different (and alike) the game was to TFC and try out some of the new things. However, 
 I couldn't find a good server to play on so I was forced to play the regular death match. The death 
 match was pretty fun but grows old after a while.
  
  This game probably was better back in teh day, I just never got around to 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheDarthvader
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 25, 2005 4:22 am PT
Review:  No game has ever come close to provide such an awsome single player and multiplayer experience, 
 ever!
  This game has the best gameplay ever! The keys are very responsive and there is nothing complicated. 
 It has a very fast paced gameplay.
  The graphics are also beautiful, considering when it was released, there wasnt much else to play. 
 Its an OpenGl game making use of the 3DFX technology and runs well even on very slow systems. Its 
 also the first game ever to offer smooth and curved surfaces. Quite an achivement.
  The sound is also very nice, although not the main attraction. The weapons sound really nice, especially 
 when you hear the rockets wooshing past you. The announcer voice was quite simply, abysmal.
  At the end, I would recommend this game to any one with even a remote intrest in FPS. This the 
 best the genre has to offer in deathmatch games. A must have! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dinamika
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 20, 2005 10:08 am PT
Review:  One of the best multiplayer and shooters game ever made. The graphics are extremely well done for 
 1999, sound I think is fits right for the game, very addictive game and cool weapons. I think most 
 first person shooters will like this game. Even if you don't like it that's your opinion. Some 
 people say it is running and shooting, well most shooters are like that anyway. I don't care about 
 the sounds and what the graphics look like it is a great game. Although I expect better characters 
 in the game that you can pick. Some are good. There is a good variety of maps in the game and all 
 are playable I say. One thing I love about the game the most are the weapons. One of these weapons 
 will be best for you or all of them maybe, like my best weapons is probably the rocket launcher 
 and shotgun. This game gets you to have favourites and maybe all of them are your favourites.
 
  
  This game deserves a good score. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 00chaos8
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 25, 2005 1:23 am PT
Review:  One of the best multiplayer and shooters game ever made. The graphics are extremely well done for 
 1999, sound I think is fits right for the game, very addictive game and cool weapons. I think most 
 first person shooters will like this game. Even if you don't like it that's your opinion. Some 
 people say it is running and shooting, well most shooters are like that anyway. I don't care about 
 the sounds and what the graphics look like it is a great game. Although I expect better characters 
 in the game that you can pick. Some are good. There is a good variety of maps in the game and all 
 are playable I say. One thing I love about the game the most are the weapons. One of these weapons 
 will be best for you or all of them maybe, like my best weapons is probably the rocket launcher 
 and shotgun. This game gets you to have favourites and maybe all of them are your favourites.
 
  
  This game deserves a good score. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mithu1234
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 3, 2005 4:13 pm PT
Review:  i have not tried the game but i played the demo and i have seen my friend try it on his pc. all 
 i can say is the game is cool with variety of weapons with great designs and the enviroment i. e. 
 setting is eye catching. as u progress through the levels u are given feedbacks about the level 
 of perfection achieved, frags killed which is a great aspect of this game. the game just grows on 
 you each time u try it but when u increase the difficulty levels, it just becomes a boring experience, u 
 cannot even kill a single opponent before u are knocked out completely. also it puts lots of stress 
 on ur eyes and can result in minor headaches and irritation. the game is for mature audience, therefore 
 see that u keep ur child away from all this (if he is sensitive) . it is very common fact that ur 
 torso and head may be blown to pieces which is sometimes shocking, overall great game and a must 
 buy one ofcourse, bye
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Everclearules
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 1, 2005 1:35 am PT
Review:  The graphics are dated, but the game runs well on just about any computer. The sound is pretty 
 good, though sometimes a bit scarce. There's really nothing spectacular about the engine except 
 for the fact it really runs well on just about any system. 
  
  What I really like about this game, as compared to Unreal Tournament, is the fact it depends more 
 on accuracy than dodging. Unreal Tournament (and it's sequels) had a bit too much frantic jumping 
 for me. If that's you're style though, you probably won't enjoy Quake III: Arena. 
  
  It's cheap and it's fun (again, if you like that gametype) , so if you're looking for something 
 to spend time one here and there when you're just bored, Quake III: Arena is great for that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JyePhye
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 15, 2004 11:16 pm PT
Review:  When I first played this game I was amazed at how similar it was to games I played from this generation 
 of first-person shooters. Just for example, I found that Unreal Tournament 2004 was shockingly 
 similar to this game. Quake Arena came first, of course, meaning that games of today bring many 
 game mechanics to the table from this game.
  If you have heart problems, then for your own sake, dont play this game before consulting a doctor. 
 I say this because this game is the epitome of fast paced, intense action. When you enter a crowded 
 match, be prepared to see constant gunshots and blasts. The maps are very well crafted so that 
 the action is constant and there are few points at which you wont be shooting at someone or having 
 someone shooting at you. The gun selection adds an enormous amount of pure sweetness to the firefights. 
 The weapons are powerful and fast with literally no reload time, adding even another level to the 
 extremely fast paced game play. The powerups back up the wide array of weapons. The powerups can 
 only be described as pure cool. They add a whole twist to the already amazing game play.
  Graphics wise, the game is actually very good. The effects in this game are actually on par with 
 many of todays effects. Also, the textures look fairly good in this game, which adds to the overall 
 experience.
  The sounds in this game are awesome. The commentary which comes when the action gets deep sends 
 chills up your spine. As for the music in the game, that is also on par with all the other games 
 of the time this game appeared.
  The replay value for this game is also very high, due to the fact that you will be drawn back to 
 the game again and again because of its online play. Many mods have been created from this game 
 which also brings hours of playtime to your doorstep.
  Overall, this is an excellent online gaming experience which should not be missed for those people 
 who wouldnt mind seeing the roots of the games of our generation.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rattlesnake_8
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 12, 2004 3:09 am PT
Review:  .. better, but thats about all. I was expecting a lot of more from QuakeIII, they "single player" 
 is a huge letdown. The AI is far to easy. There is no storyline.. they just added a single player 
 which is basically a practice mode for what QuakeIII is really made for.. multiplayer. 
  
  As i prefer to have a great single player experience with multiplayer being a bonus i was let down 
 by this title. QuakeII's single player was great, QuakeIII's is virtually non existant. 
  
  The multiplayer side is fun, as most of the fanboys will tell you how great this title is. The 
 only thing it introduced was having actual round parts in the environment. I never really got heavily 
 into Q3. It's good to see that Q4 has been announced and is going to go back to the old style of 
 the Quake games, with a heavy story driven single player, with great graphics, weapons and levels.. 
 QuakeIII was nothing more than a multiplayer only game with some bots thrown in the make it have 
 single player.. Unreal Tournament did it so much better in every way. If your looking at getting 
 QuakeIII, I recomend you checking out UT. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sirgamer88
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 3, 2004 1:12 am PT
Review:  I got Quake III a few weeks ago, and even though the graphics aren't as good compared to games 
 today but at that time they were great. The problem with most "online-Multiplayer shooters" is 
 that the single player is usually weak. Quake III has a better single player game than some games 
 like Tribes Aerial Assault. The only thing that could turn gamers away from this is that this is 
 mainly a deathmatch game. Not a lot of CTF maps, there isnt any CTF in the Single Player. If you 
 are mainly a CTF fan, then you wont enjoy it as much, but overall this still is a good game. You 
 should still get it even though its a few years old. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Three_Banditos
Rating: 5.4
Date: Aug 23, 2004 11:50 pm PT
Review:  There was a time when id Software was famous for making innovative and awesome games. Remember 
 Wolfenstein 3D, the granddaddy of the FPS? And Doom, the one that put the genre on the map, and 
 gave us DeathMatch? And Quake, the one that brought us true 3D?
  
  Those days are gone, my friends. Now, id is an engine developer, occasionally creating an empty 
 shell of a game to promote said engine. Quake III Arena was the engine of choice for many, many 
 shooters over the two years following the game's release, and yet the game itself is decidedly 
 mediocre. For starters, unlike its competitor at the time, Unreal Tournament, this game completely 
 lacks any mode other than DeathMatch. Not a bad thing if that's what you're into, but for those 
 seeking something more, there's a definite sense of lacking. Furthermore, unlike UT, there are 
 very few options for offline play -- a single-player ladder you can finish in a day if you're any 
 good, and the option to create a server full of bots if you REALLY want some kind of offline practice 
 mode. The latter does emulate UT's Practice Mode to some degree, but it is an utter pain in the 
 butt to try set up a match that way, and it just doesn't give you as much flexibility.
  
  Graphics is probably the only place where Quake III truly excels. As I said above, it was the standard 
 engine for years after its release, and it's not difficult to see why. Everything is smooth and 
 VERY nice to look at. Unfortunately, pretty does not sell a game for me -- there's gotta be meat, 
 which there's precious little of here.
  
  The sound effects and music were okay, I guess. Nothing really left a significant impact on me 
 one way or the other, although I must admit, the hit sounds did prove useful on occasion. The celebratory 
 voices, on the other hand, began to annoy me very quickly (although to be fair, they did in UT, 
 too) .
  
  Replay value is almost exclusively online, and as with any online experience, your mileage may 
 vary significantly depending on who you're playing with. If you get together with friends, or find 
 a server with a good bunch of players, it can be fun, but if you get the kind of morons you frequently 
 find in online shooters, the experience is ruined. However, I tend not to play online too often, 
 so this was pretty much a moot point. On the bright side, I picked this up at a good price as part 
 of a package deal with Quake I & II, so I didn't completely waste my money -- the original Quake 
 alone was worth the price of admission, so to get even a mediocre game with it was a bonus.
  
  Overall, I was extraordinarily disappointed with this game. Sure, it sold many engines to game 
 developers, and sure, it was a huge hit with pure DM fans, but to be honest, it's not a very well-rounded 
 game, and at the end of the day, that lack of variety is the single greatest reason why Quake III 
 was a failure to me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GaussGoat
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jun 1, 2004 5:52 am PT
Review:  "Here we go again." These words will be prevalent on your mind throughout the Quake III Arena Experience.
 
  
  Quake III is the latest installment in the Quake series, which puts you in the shoes of no one 
 in particular, blasting everyone and everything as always. There is plentry of frenetic action 
 to be had, although you will find yourself experiencing deja vu throughout the entire experience. 
 The single player is non-existant, as you basically work your way up through a ladder of bots, 
 and then win the "Title", if it can even be called that. The bot AI is good, and would probably 
 be considered excellent within the time frame of the game's release.
  
  Multiplayer is essentially what this game is all about, and the usual modes find their place here; 
 Deathmatch, Capture the Flag, etc etc.
  
  Visually, Quake III is very nice, although the engine is very under-used. Several of the levels 
 have a completely black background, (supposedly to convey space) , and a lot more have a similar, 
 bland beige-rust color. Anyone who played Quake 2 will recognize the anemic pallete almost immediately. 
 Weapon effects are great, and the character models are colorful, large, and appropriately tough 
 looking.
  
  Sound is one of Q3's strengths. The effects are great, characters yell, gasp and growl appropriately. 
 Weapons fire has a lot of base, and the shotgun puts people down with gusto. The quality of sound 
 in this game helped the immersion considerably, and gave it a lot more steam than the gameplay 
 would indicate.
  
  The only thing that boosts Quake III's value is the torrential downpour of mods available for the 
 game online. There are thousands, some of which are excellent games including Weapons Factory. 
 If left up to the original game, this score would drop like a stone.
  
  Quake III doesn't deviate from id's standard formula, and the lack of innovation is starting to 
 grate on players. The weapons haven't changed since the original Doom, and a graphics overhaul 
 doesn't justify the $40-$50 price tag they wanted for this game. If you've played any other FPS, 
 Quake III will seem very hollow by comparison. It almost appears as though it was meant to exhibit 
 the engine, and other studioes have gone on to do great games with id's technology. Steer clear 
 unless you are looking to expand on the game from the user community. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pointblank
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 19, 2004 11:17 am PT
Review:  I never really could get into Quake 3. Being a longtime TFC player, I wanted to see how QTF was. 
 I bought a copy off ebay for pretty cheap and installed it. I was pretty disappointed to find out 
 that hte community was almost deserted by the time that I tried to play. It was interesting to 
 see how different (and alike) the game was to TFC and try out some of the new things. However, 
 I couldn't find a good server to play on so I was forced to play the regular death match. The death 
 match was pretty fun but grows old after a while.
  
  This game probably was better back in teh day, I just never got around to playing it. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
