-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Quest For Glory V: Dragon Fire
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/rpg/questforglory5dragonfire/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec 28, 1998
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.4
Critic Score: 7.4, 20 Review (s)
User Score: 8.3, 287 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Sierra Entertainment
Developer: Yosemite Ent.
Genre: Role-Playing
Date:     Nov 30, 1998

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Quest for Glory V has a few quirks and problems that will try your patience, but series fans will 
 want to play this game to see old friends and follow Hero's last adventure. 

 I have been a Quest for Glory fan since I played the first Hero's Quest over seven years ago. Although 
 I have always loved role-playing games, I never really played too many adventure games. But Hero's 
 Quest blended the two genres together into a greater whole that I found instantly appealing. The 
 series, which later became Quest for Glory, combined the dialogue, item hunts, and other classic 
 story-driven goals of adventure games with the combat, magic, and character interaction of RPGs. 
 Each time I sat down to play a Quest for Glory game, I walked away completely satisfied upon finishing 
 the game. I played the first, second, and third games but never got around to playing Quest IV. 
 That was supposed to be the last Quest for Glory game, but thanks to a plethora of fan mail, Sierra 
 was persuaded to create a final chapter in the Quest for Glory saga. The Coles, the creators of 
 the previous games, returned to scribe an ending to our Hero's tales, and I was ready to retire 
 one of my favorite game characters in his ultimate adventure.  

 As excited as I was about putting on the shoes of Hero again, I forgave the admittedly lackluster 
 graphics. After all, role-playing games and adventures are about story, and Quest for Glory especially 
 is about plot, characters, and humor. Quest for Glory V has all that. In fact, after looking at 
 my first item and talking to my first NPC, it was as if I had never left the series. The humor 
 and style of the previous Quest games is wholly intact in this final chapter. Quest for Glory has 
 always had a juvenile sense of humor, with corny jokes and heavy sexual innuendo. So of course, 
 you can flirt with all the women in the game, and you can give and receive a number of groaners. 
 Of course, this is something that Quest for Glory fans have come to expect from the series, so 
 rather than be put off by the game's quirky sense of humor, I was heartened. This was the game 
 I remembered. However, if I weren't a fan of the series, I don't know if I would appreciate the 
 game's humor.  

 The basic plot requires you to answer a summons for help from the kingdom of Silmaria, nestled in 
 the island area of Marete. Ages ago, Atlantis resided around these waters, but the Dragon of Doom 
 crippled it, sending it to the ocean floor. A handful of mages bound the dragon to the earth with 
 the aid of seven pillars. Now, Silmaria is suffering a chain of events that will not only destroy 
 the kingdom, but also unleash the dragon to finish the obliteration of Atlantis. As Hero, you come 
 to Silmaria - via the magic of your mage mentor Erasmus - to right all the wrongs perpetrated on 
 Silmaria. Your adventures manifest themselves in the form of the Rites of Rulership. The king of 
 Silmaria has been assassinated, and the Rites have been convened to select a new ruler. Erasmus 
 and your liontaur companion, Rakeesh, have entered you into the contest so you can travel Marete 
 and find the real killer. If you win the Rites and become King in the process... well, that's an 
 added bonus.  

 There are seven Rites, and as you finish each one, more of the game's plot is revealed. You soon 
 find that the assassinations, the raids on Silmaria's fishing villages, the kingdom's war with 
 the tritons of Atlantis, and many other problems are all related. Eventually, you'll meet the mastermind 
 behind all this evil and even confront the Dragon itself.  

 As a Quest fan, I was glad to see old faces from the previous games. Rakeesh is back, as are Elsa, 
 Erasmus, Erana, Katrina, and several other characters. Disappointingly, Rakeesh and Erasmus have 
 relatively small roles in the game. I liked that the characters' dialogue trees refreshed after 
 certain quests or periods of time. The gameworld isn't very large, but the continually updated 
 events and dialogue kept the game from feeling too confined. There was always something to do. 
 Aside from the seven main quests, there are also side quests that don't have to be completed but 
 do give you special items, open new lines of dialogue with NPCs, and add to your score. The first 
 two quests are very straightforward, but the later quests have less in the way of direction. In 
 some ways, this is good. You are left to think up solutions on your own to the quests and to find 
 your own way of arriving at those solutions. Some quests are clever, but other times, you could 
 be stuck wandering around the gameworld, lost and frustrated. The middle game, especially, feels 
 too much like an adventure game where you have to go poking and prodding at every single pixel, 
 looking for certain items.  

 Some of the game's voice acting was good, but some voices were too strained and annoying (Cerberus 
 is especially terrible) . The music was good, with some excellent tracks and event-specific music. 
 The graphics aren't bad, although extreme close-ups of Hero don't look very good. The prerendered 
 backgrounds look nice, and the undulating sea waves are especially good. One of my biggest complaints 
 about the game is the lack of a zoom feature in combat. Sometimes, you could be caught in a battle 
 at the far end of the map, meaning you and your target are barely large enough to click on. This 
 is exasperated when you cast the shrink spell. What makes the problem even worse is the bad interface, 
 which never distinguishes between "hot" items and useless ones. The cursor should light up when 
 you pass over items you can pick up, locations of interest, or enemies and characters. The interface 
 just compounds the problem when you have to look for a specific item or panel (this is most pronounced 
 when finding the crane operation panel on Science Island) .  

 I do like that the game plays differently depending on which character you choose. Each class has 
 a few extra quests and abilities, and solutions to certain puzzles and combat differ depending 
 on your character's abilities. This definitely accentuates the role-playing aspect of the game 
 and makes replay a very real possibility, if you can stomach rehashing some of the game's faults. 
 I do think Quest for Glory is a pretty good game, but much of what fueled my desire to play the 
 game was nostalgia. The game plays very much like what I remembered but with added stories and 
 the chance to revisit old acquaintances. That's what I wanted. However, gamers unused to Quest 
 for Glory might be put off by the less-than-stellar graphics and "old school" gameplay. Gamers 
 also might be put off by Quest for Glory V's bugs. I ran into a few, and people have complained 
 about several others. Some bugs prevent the completion of certain side quests, while others will 
 dump you out to the desktop. Also, the promised multiplayer support is absent, although a patch 
 is supposed to enable it sometime in the future.  

 I really enjoyed my first ten hours of Quest for Glory V, but as the game wore on, I became more 
 frustrated by the pace of the game and the pixel-hunting instances of gameplay. A better interface, 
 a quest log that showed you what you had to do, and better handling of combat would have alleviated 
 some of my concerns. I did finish the game, and I enjoyed it overall, but the ending was definitely 
 disappointing. As the final farewell to Hero, this game should have at least included an epilogue 
 of some sort that let you know what happened to Hero and all his companions. Quest for Glory V 
 has a few quirks and problems that will try your patience, but series fans will want to play this 
 game to see old friends and follow Hero's last adventure.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (4 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: A-l-g-r-e-n
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 9, 2008 11:16 pm PT
Review:  What would Oblivion be like if it weren`t for games like this... So fun, so funny, so old-school. 
 A game I've had much fun with in my chidhood. I remember coming into my friend's house and watching 
 him play this awesome game. I was like: "Oh cool! You gotta eat to survive, and sleep, and you 
 can swim, and you need to take supplies on your trips or you'll starve to death".
  
  I used to play this and make the character dance to the Bee Gees. Stayin' Aliiiiiive!!!! Hehehe. 
 Awesome. Like, the combat is so simple, and yet it manages to still be fun. Like, when you're attacking 
 a dude and you watch his health go down with each hit, you just feel some kinda twisted pleasure. 
 I know, I know, click on the enemy till your fingers fall off and hope that you'll kill him before 
 he kills you. But c'mon, it was '98. There was no Dante-style fights yet.
  
  And its sense of humor is just too awesome. When you get asked by the mystic God "what is the meaning 
 of life" you can answer these options:
  1. To respect the wizards and live forever as a honorable man.
  2. I don't know.
  3. Dumb question.
 
  4. You kinda look like a clownfish.
  5. 42. (LOL)
  
  That always makes me crap my pants. Also you can build like relationships (haha! wondering where 
 GTAIV's girlfriend system came from??) . You can get married and all that.
  
  Although I don't like to use magic on games, this game's spells are too fun. Most of them are balls 
 that you throw, like shiny balls. And they just explode your target and all that and you click 
 on him: BOOM! HOMING BALL! It's cool. Also you can kill people that annoy you by talking sh** in 
 greek. Those greek guys annoy me VERY much. So there goes the homing ball and they go flying up 
 in the air, and then the guards come and kill me.
  
  C'mon you, review reader. You can still get this game on eBay and patch it up! Go for me, you won't 
 regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dominicy
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 11, 2008 5:38 pm PT
Review:  Quest for Glory is what I like to call the greatest adventure game series ever. The reason for 
 this has to be the fighting system. The main focus is still exploring, picking up items, and solving 
 puzzles, but the fact that while you did all this you were running from anything from cheetah-centaur 
 to wyvern.
  
  The main focus was always the puzzles, but Quest for Glory 5? It throws ALL of that out the window. 
 Suddenly you're stuck in an over simplified yet difficult-to-use battle system and relatively no 
 puzzles. When there are puzzles, they're almost always over simplified.
  
  This game dragged the series from an innovative, fun, satisfying experience to a mindless beat-em-up. 
 The story is cliche, which is a bit of a shock for the series because normally the game is pretty 
 unique in some way. Now, I sound like I hate this game at this point, huh? Actually, I don't, I 
 LOVED this game, it was fun, but it wasn't Quest for Glory.
  
  The story over all is unsatisfying, leaving an unfitting end to the Hero's story (Devin, as he's 
 called by some) . This game could have been done very well, but Sierra seemed to give up on the 
 adventure elements.
  
  The funnest part of the game would probably be the time before the seven Rites of Rulership or 
 when trying to marry one of the girls. Speaking of which, I only played through the game once (so 
 far) as my paladin, and I was pretty disappointed with how easy and almost boring it was to marry 
 the characters. Or maybe it was just Erana.
  
  Three things that should have been done (or undone) are the character models. I preferred the 2D 
 sprites to pixelated 3D models, the length of the game (way too short) , and the style of the game. 
 the game was far superior before it became a fully-fledged RPG.
  
  Regardless, the game was good, and I advise any one who likes action games to find a copy of it 
 on Ebay, just don't buy it for any more than $30. ;D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zellgod
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 24, 2007 10:33 am PT
Review:  This game truly is amazing. The customization of your character alone is genius. This game is deffinately 
 one of my favorites of all time. There is constant humour, the fighting system is great, and it 
 is just plain cool. The graphics are really good for when it came out. The music is great. The 
 replay value is through the roof. Most importantly the gameplay is perfect, it is simply great. 
 The one downside/upside depending on how you look at it is the difficulty. It can be a very hard 
 game due to a time limit and puzzles that exist within the game. it can be extremely difficult 
 in certain places.
  
  QFG 1 2 3 and 4 do not compare with 5. qfg5 is a classic 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RainbowBrite
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 11, 2006 11:27 am PT
Review:  QFG5: Dragon Fire was the farthest I ever got through any of Sierra's adventure games, up to that 
 point, without a walkthrough. It was very intuitive and generally things were pretty laid out for 
 you. I just replayed it and I still love it, even though it seems to go way too fast now, since 
 I've played it so many times.
  
  I think if you want to step back into older games that you've never played before, QFG5 would be 
 a good slow step to take. The graphics are good enough that they wouldn't be such a huge loss from 
 today's standards as it would to, say, go straight back to QFG1. The sound is excellent too... 
 terrific voice acting. 
  
  The fact that you can play as a warrior, wizard, or theif (and paladin if you import from a previous 
 QFG game!) adds to the replay value. I like to play it every few years, although the novelty of 
 the spells you can cast does wear off after you play so many times. Still, the replay value is 
 worth it. And since you can set the difficulty of the game, you can always make it harder as you 
 get more experience. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
