-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: RACE 07 - The WTCC Game
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/driving/race07thewtccgame/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 New vehicle classes add depth.
 Highly authentic racing experience.
 Both 2006 and 2007 WTCC seasons.
 24-player multiplayer mode.
 Superb artificial intelligence drivers.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Graphics look a bit archaic.
 Fundamentally very similar to last year's game.
 No photograph mode.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 18, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8
Critic Score: 8.3, 21 Review (s)
User Score: 7.6, 509 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Viva Media
Developer: SimBin
Genre: GT / Street Racing
Date:     Oct 9, 2007 &raquo;  
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
SimBin's racer returns for a new season, adding brand new vehicle classes to the already excellent 
 touring car series. 

  Swedish development studio SimBin may be a small independent developer, but it has enjoyed a prolific 
 rise to the top of the PC racing simulation market. To build on the success of its first outing, 
 GTR, the studio enlisted the support of the World Touring Car Championship and created RACE: The 
 WTCC Game, winning over critics and customers in the process. The sequel, RACE 07, expands the 
 game even further, with new racing classes, such as Formula 3000, Radical sports cars, and even 
 Minis. While the game is fundamentally similar to the previous game, particularly in the dated 
 graphics engine, these new racing classes add considerably more depth to an already impressive 
 package.  

           The new Formula 3000 vehicles are even more of a challenge to drive than the touring cars. 

  Despite the addition of new racing classes and vehicles, RACE 07 still maintains its WTCC branding 
 and subtitle. As a result, the focus is definitely on the touring car leagues, if only because 
 the majority of tracks in the game are taken from current and previous WTC championships. Fans 
 of WTCC will probably want to upgrade just to get the updated 2007 season information, but newcomers 
 to the series should be pleased to see that the 2006 series is still included. This means that 
 tracks that were dropped between seasons, such as Magny-Cours, Puebla, and Istanbul, are still 
 in as part of the 2006 season, while replacements such as Zandvoort, Anderstorp, and Pau make it 
 as part of the 2007 lineup. You can play the full championship from both seasons, which includes 
 practice, qualifying, warm-up, and two races for each of the 10-11 meets. This means that getting 
 through a full season is no mean feat; although, you can skip the prerace buildup if you like. 
 As with real touring cars, drivers who consistently finish in the top rankings have weight added 
 to their vehicles to balance things out.  

  RACE 07 is a serious racing game, but it's one that feels authentic without being stuffy. The game 
 can be tailored to create the experience you want, with numerous driving assists that can be disabled 
 to make the game more difficult. Antilock brakes, traction control, and stability assists can be 
 turned off at any time during the race, but disabling them makes cornering all the more difficult. 
 You can also make the game harder by choosing from the preset racing levels at the beginning of 
 each race. On the novice setting, the damage level of each crash is limited to 30 percent of the 
 real-world effect, while mechanical failure is turned off to prevent your car from ever breaking 
 completely. On the pro level, damage affects your car more both technically and aesthetically, 
 meaning that each bump has a noticeable effect on performance.  

  As if wrestling with your own car wasn't enough of a challenge, RACE 07 also provides some of the 
 most convincing artificial intelligence that we've seen in a driving game. The AI does a convincing 
 job of driving competitively, steering into your path to stop you from passing and even giving 
 you the odd nudge, something which also happens between computer-controlled opponents. At the beginning 
 of a race, you'll frequently see AI drivers tussling to the point where one car will end up going 
 off the track or spinning out completely. Given the short nature of touring car races (most tend 
 to stay below 15 laps, although this can be decreased if you like) , there's relatively little thinning 
 out of the pack, leading to some incredibly exciting races as a result. Even on the novice setting, 
 it's difficult to gain a lot of time on your opposition, which means that you have to concentrate 
 all the way to the finish line.  

           The opponent artificial intelligence is some of the best the racing genre has to offer. 

  While touring cars is still very much the focus for RACE 07, there is also a host of new racing 
 classes on offer for the first time. Formula 3000, Radical, Formula BMW, Caterham, and Mini series 
 vehicles are now also available, in addition to classic touring cars from the 1987 series. Far 
 from simply dropping them into the game, SimBin has worked on making these vehicles feel as realistic 
 as the touring cars, and unless you're a WTCC purist, you'll definitely want to spend some time 
 checking them out. The speed and weight of the Formula 3000 cars make them a completely different 
 prospect from the touring cars, while the Minis are more forgiving than other vehicles, which makes 
 them attractive to novice drivers wanting to get into the game. All these new racing classes definitely 
 feel like they have a place in RACE 07, and racing enthusiasts will find that they add depth to 
 a game that already had plenty of longevity.  

  The new racing classes also enhance the multiplayer portion of the game because you can find your 
 niche and carve out a name for yourself online. Even though we had no problem finding a lag-free 
 game, none of them were ever full. The game theoretically supports up to 24 players simultaneously 
 over both LAN and the Internet. The host is given the option to select the car type, track, and 
 number of laps. The host can also enforce rules, such as car damage, weather, and opponent AI level. 

  Aside from the main championships and online offerings, there are quick-race options that are more 
 suitable for shorter games. Single race, time attack, and practice modes allow you to take on any 
 of the tracks from the 2006/2007 series in any racing type/vehicle class combination. As you should 
 expect from a racing game these days, the replay mode allows you to frame your greatest victories 
 and most spectacular crashes from pretty much any angle. What's great about the replay mode is 
 that your most recent races are all saved onto the hard drive automatically, allowing you to dip 
 in and see the action from a race that you might have played through days or even weeks ago. We 
 like the authentic Eurosport branding and the resulting TV-like presentation, but the lack of a 
 photograph mode is a bit of a shame. At least online leaderboards are available if you want to 
 show off to your friends. Despite being integrated with the Steam online platform, the system doesn't 
 seem to support the in-built friends and server system in the same way as Counter-Strike: Source. 

  While a lot has been added to RACE 07 in terms of new classes and vehicles, the racing engine feels 
 very similar to last year's game. There's no getting away from the fact that RACE 07 struggles 
 to match up visually to the latest generation of racers. For example, car parts can sometimes be 
 seen through other objects in the world. While the game does a decent job of analysing your system's 
 performance and asking if you want to up the visual quality automatically, even at the highest 
 settings, the game lacks detail, particularly in terms of the scenery. Basic ground textures and 
 some particularly nasty pixelated grass give the game the look of a previous-generation racing 
 game, while the onlookers are the static cardboard cutout variety of a few years ago. At least, 
 the vehicles make some amends and the in-car views really show off the modelling work. In the Formula 
 3000 cars, this even extends to seeing the view from inside the driver's helmet, which is another 
 nice touch. There are also some other background details that add to the authenticity of the experience, 
 such as the trackside officials waving coloured flags after collisions.  

           It's not a particularly pretty game, but the in-car views show some nice car modelling. 

  There are only a couple of weather effects in RACE 07, and while their visual impact is limited, 
 their effect on the driving experience is tangible. Light rain causes a small amount of sheen on 
 the track, while heavy rain makes even the most gradual of corners a challenging exercise. It's 
 some way off the huge puddles that can be seen in Project Gotham Racing 4, but the level of detail 
 extends to being able to turn on the windscreen wipers and headlights. Some dexterity on the keyboard 
 is required to master all the controls in RACE 07: It's definitely a game that's designed to be 
 played using a racing wheel.  

  RACE 07 is a charming racing game that won't fail to appeal to enthusiasts. You have to applaud 
 the effort that's gone into making the game authentic but also accessible, and at any level, it 
 is always a joy to play. While there's no getting away from the fact that it looks dated and could 
 certainly do with an engine overhaul, the new classes and vehicles make this an attractive addition 
 to the franchise. If you have the money to spend on a racing wheel, as well as the time to play 
 though the season and online modes, you should definitely invest in RACE 07.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (17 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: highwayman2000
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 26, 2008 10:26 am PT
Review:  I played this UNROTTEN GAME so many times that I find it realistic. Gamespot should have given 
 a higher mark has there's no other race game out there - anyway, the game would have been given 
 full marks if the game was more ARCADE!
  
  I haven't alot to brag about this race game other than it makes all the people what works in Gamespot 
 think twice before saying something bad!
  
  What do you expect, a game that is short of coming - nonsense. All my friends would agree that 
 this race game is the best game to describe Gamespot - even if the people deny that this game describes 
 them has such ( perhaps because there's other five star general games out there! ) .
  
  Being not an arcade game, the snag about the game is that everytime you win a race, under a season 
 competition, you get penalised and there's nothing you can do. Nothing like say changing difficulty 
 and still discover you lost something being a little traction and a little stability here and there! 
 - reason I wish they left a challenge.
  
  All said, I hope you all agree, this game rocks!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: -METAL-HEART-
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 29, 2008 4:57 pm PT
Review:  Race 07 - The WTCC Game is enjoyable driving experience. Simbin really got great driving feeling 
 to this game. Cars physics are nice, graphics are good and sounds are really psychedelic. I noticed 
 few bugs playing this game but they are so minimal after all that they doesnt matter.
  
  I would give ten points to this game but there is few point lowering things like the loading times. 
 It is just fustrating to wait so long and this game sucks everything from 2,4Ghz, 1G of memory 
 and with 128Mb videocard. I could not even imagine how this game runs with minimal recommended 
 PC! If you want to enjoy from the good graphics and you have that minimum recommended PC, I would 
 not recommend this game to you. This game looks too good to reduce the graphics and details from 
 it.
  
  It takes quite long time to get to this game but once you learn to keep the car on track you just 
 dont wanna stop the fun. If you are a arcade driver this game isnt for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pegasusjf
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 23, 2008 11:34 pm PT
Review:  Reading some of the negative player reviews, I see the primary complaint is the somewhat dated 
 graphics engine. 
  
  Well, first off, my PC is a few years old, so that is to my benefit, second, WHO CARES?! IMHO Substance 
 is worth far more than style, the graphics are functional and not really that bad from what I've 
 seen elsewhere.
  
  I've played a few hardcore racing sims in my time (The old papyrus sims IndyCar racing II and Nascar 
 Racing, and more recently Nascar Thunder 2004) and none of them were as easy to get into and downright 
 fun as this sim. It's a joy from start to finish, from practicing against yourself to the full 
 races.
  
  The AI is the best I've seen, with your CPU opponents constantly jockying for advantage.
  
 
  From what I can tell so far the community is very friendly.
  
  I was able to be pretty competitive from the start (granted with the novice settings an a 85% driver 
 difficulty) and using the Mini's. It's more fun, and the short races, short and sweet, it's perfect 
 for those that don't have 2-4 hours for a full race in another sim.
  
  I do hope for a new indycar sim in the future, but for now, I am joyfully playing Race 07! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gauravfox
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 23, 2008 4:46 am PT
Review:  Race 07 depicts the Official WTCC racing. The game looks pretty, the plot is very similar to the 
 WTCC race format, various options are available for customizing the races. The options provided 
 provides flexibility in defining the difficulty and in optimizing graphic performance. There are 
 quite a lot of cars to choose from, the realism in driving the cars are the best in what i have 
 seen from other similar games. The suspension and the cockpit view are some of the details that 
 keep the player into playing Race 07. The F3000 range of cars are totally amazing and get an in-depth 
 experience of driving high performance Formula cars. The game also has a collection of 2006 cars 
 and tracks and the 1987 collection [ Alfa Romeo, BMW ] as well.
  
  On the downside of this game, i personally experienced a few Graphic problems after installing 
 the Update Patch, The game looses its excitement after a while, and the provision of a single music 
 track is a turn-off ! though users can use their choice of music by copying it into the 'music' 
 folder, it seems to make little difference in indulging a gamer into playing Race 07. The Graphics 
 could have been better and the damage to the cars are not well depicted.
  
  The Game appeals only in the realism in handling Race Cars.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deltadylan
Rating: 3
Date: Apr 6, 2008 4:35 am PT
Review:  in my opinion,
  every part is very good but graphyic part may be too bad to me.
  i think graphyic quality and sound quality are a very important part of every game in this time.
 
  its sound part is very realistic but graphic part...
  because i have played the TOCA Race Driver series and Need For Speed series and more...
  they 
 have done well in this two parts.
  if SimBin can improve the graphyic level of RACE 07 i will love and play it more until that.
 
  i keep playing TOCA Race Driver series and Need For Speed series back.
  in my opinion, this graphyic level in this time is very difficult to survive in this game world. 
 is it right?
  i think TOCA Race Driver series and Project Gotham Racing 4 have been better than it.
  i've got 
 little regret to buy this really!
  however i think their company have more experience than SimBin.
  SimBin cheer up! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stomique
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 20, 2007 8:34 pm PT
Review:  I can't believe that anyone would seriously describe this game as "uninspired". I'm talking to 
 you Paulo. Toca 3 is better? WTF? SimBin are the last bastion of hardcore sims left out there after 
 the dissolution of Papyrus and, yes, the EA F1 sims . OK Rfactor is great. Kudos to ISI. I don't 
 use Live For Speed but I hear it's good. I recently purchased Race 07 and I find it exceptional. 
 It's different than GTL and GTR2 but it's also an improvement over the last WTCC emmulator. 
  One reviewer said the graphics look "dated". Misleading. Makes me think of TOCA 3. What, I believe 
 he actually said and meant was that they haven't been radically updated since GTL. FINE!! GTL , 
 GTR2, AND Race 07 look like freakin' postcards on my ordinary rig. It's really about the physics, 
 custom options, net code, scoring, regulations, and on line support and competition. 
  See you at the track. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zippofoe
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 6, 2007 8:34 pm PT
Review:  Ok. I'll be blunt: RACE 07 sucks -- it's not even close to the quality of GT legends and GTR2.
 
  
  It's simply very average -- rather, beause they couldn't flat out apply next gen graphics they 
 decided just to add more buildings and 3d people, which for me, only managed to bog down my frame 
 rate. 
  
  either give us GREAT graphics or don't even try. sheesh. 
  
  my biggest gripe is the 'helmet cam/' whatever Special Olympic programmer came up with this should 
 not have been given a hug at the end of the Special Olympic race. 
  
  i mean, c'mon! -- who thought it a great idea to cover most of the screen with helmet foam?? you 
 friggin' kiddin' me? absolutly retarded. absolutly ruined it for me. at least make an option to 
 turn the helmet foam off! (AND keep the driver's perspective in the cockpit view!)
  
  so bascially, you guys suck for the 'helmet cam'. whatever game there coulda been simply was flushed 
 down the toilet by your lame 'helmet cam'
  
  next time don't screw up good game.
  
  until then, i'm still happy with GTR2 and GT Legends, two most superb games.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cvearl
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 5, 2007 11:46 pm PT
Review:  I own and play LFS, GTR2, RBR and GT Legends from time to time. I have a fetish for buying racing 
 sims. I use a MOMO Racing wheel and peddals on my PC. I race 5 to 10 hours a week online or off 
 depending on my feelings that day.
  
  Race 07 is a good overall racing game. In fact, if GTR2 did not exist it would be what I would 
 choose when not racing in LFS.
  
  Driving Physics: Basically if drives a little easier in Pro Mode than Simulation Mode in GTR2. 
 I generally liked the feel of the cars. The handling is less white knuckled in that regard. I can 
 tell they took some edge off to increase accessibility for some people. Challenging but not frustrating 
 like GTR2 can occasionally be.
  
  Content: plenty I guess. I wish there were more standard Championship modes. But you can make custom 
 ones if you want. I like career mode sims. GTR2 seems to have more in that regard.
  
  Graphics: However. I find the graphics a step behind GTR2. Npoticably so infact. The track looks 
 good if this were 2003 or 3004. But not today I'm afraid. I also find the outside world not as 
 colorfull or bright when viewed from inside the car compared to GTR2 either. Overall GTR2 is far 
 more detailed. Framerate: Wierd thing. Even though GTR2 looks years better in terms of details 
 in both cars and tracks, it runs at a far more consistant framerate! Strange. Way smoother!
  
  Sound: About equal I think.
  
  Force Feedback in the Wheel: About the same.
  
  Basically. 
 If you like GTR2 and play it, you sill still be playing it after about 6 hours of Race 07. Just 
 a hunch. But for someone new to Sim Racing? It's a great product and one that would get you ready 
 for the heavier sim found in GTR2.
  
  C. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JSYWarthog
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 26, 2007 4:44 am PT
Review:  Ignore the other idiots who compare this with Need for Speed or TOCA... Both those games, whilst 
 not bad in their own right, are straightforward arcade racers. This is very different - this is 
 simulated motor racing, with immense amounts of efforts put into making this look and feel like 
 you are racing for real. If that's not for you then look elsewhere - to get the best out of this 
 game you really need a decent steering wheel (G25 highly recommended) , and more importantly you 
 need to invest significant time into learning how to drive fast round a track at the limits of 
 grip. Make those investments, and like GTR2 and others before it, Race 07 will pay you back in 
 spades.
  
  On the downside, it's a relatively minor upgrade from Race 06, but significant enough to make it 
 a mandatory purchase - it also includes other classes , like Radicals and Formula 3000 which give 
 it longevity. The graphics are pretty good, but not the huge step forward that they could have 
 been - but this shouldn't bother you, they're good enough. We all look forward to a true next-gen 
 SimBin title though.
  
  To summarise - if you have any interest at all in Motorsports, would like to race cars but can't 
 afford to do so in real life - get this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raptole
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 25, 2007 9:36 am PT
Review:  Not very bad game but Need for Speed ProStreet will be better!
  I played the game for about a hour or two and I don't know what to say! I saw a good and bad things 
 in the game, please tell me if i am wrong but this game suck a little bit! I get the original disk 
 from one my friend who bought it in the day of the premiere but it is so expensive for what is 
 it! I won't buy a game like that never, never! I play street racing games but not that kind of! 
 I like all series of need for speed and will like it amore and more years i hope but the only think 
 that i like in the game is that there is the new BMW 3-series and this car was and in the previous 
 serie of the game!
  I vote with 9.0 points because i don't like very much the game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: paulomello2006
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 20, 2007 7:41 pm PT
Review:  This game is an copy attempt of TOCA Race Drive&acute; s series, but too far....
  
  The graphics engine is the same used on EA&acute; s F1 200x Series white some poor shadders effects 
 added but this is very obsolete engine at this time.
  
  The sound are good, and reproduces perfectly the real car&acute; s engine.
  
  The controls and 
 jogability are very good, this game is an Simulator and if you have an Steering Wheel its turns 
 the game in an enjoyable drive experience.
  
  I wast less than 3hours playing this game, and its no so great to me, I had some frame rate problems 
 (using Geforce 7900GS Graphicas card / 3GB Ram/ Core 2 Duo 6300 Processor) .
  
  My veredict for this game is:
  
  Poor and frustrated attempt , GTR2 is more enjoyable! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamegeek222
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 20, 2007 7:09 pm PT
Review:  If you like to drive with some realism, then you have to have this.
  If you like to compete online with other drivers, then you have to have this.
  If you like using 
 you virtual wheel, if you like a nice selection of cars to chose from, if you like a good racing 
 challenge and you are novice or a pro, THEN YOU HAVE TO HAVE THIS GAME.
  Graphics, sounds, and fun factor are all good. This game is great online and offline. I have seen 
 no bugs to speak of. What I love most about this game is the $20.00 price tag I paid.
  To be able to drive a virtual vehicle and with such finesse and realism for $20.00. I could not 
 argue with that deal. I could try but I would not be sucessful! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sj420
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 21, 2007 5:54 pm PT
Review:  race is back. if you've never played a simbin title before, this game is a nice place to start. 
 if you're a race sim fan, it's been a very smooth transition from one simbin title to the next. 
 in every aspect. not long after race 06 and its caterham expansion pack (thx again simbin) , race 
 07 is already here. btw, the content in this game is worth ten times its admission price of $20.
 
  
  i hope that the lower game price will entice more people to purchase a wheel, because this game 
 demands one. you're missing out on 95% of the experience with a gamepad. no one should compare 
 this game to arcade racers DiRT, NFS, etc...
  
  every aspect of the game is so polished and the presentation finally has some 'pop' to it. this 
 time the creators really did a great job of cleaning up most of the g. u. i. most of the menus feel 
 a lot less cluttered than before, and navigating through them is easy.
  
  the physics, graphics, sound, and core gameplay are all pretty much identical to the last game, 
 and that is both a good and bad thing. things like tire flatspotting is still lacking, i believe. 
 they're probably saving all the good stuff for gtr3.
  
  this isn't a next-gen pc title, so don't expect any graphical flares. the poly count on the vehicle 
 models show their age, but honestly they're still holding up very nicely. the environment is a 
 little bland, but not terrible. as always, the interiors/cockpit views are top quality and extremely 
 immersive. however, with the helmet perspective, there's a distinct lack of head-movement in the 
 cockpit and it feels awkward. look-to-apex only does so much, and it feels just dead and robotic. 
 i'm sure a track-ir device is the only solution to this problem. the replays still feel very cold 
 and dead as well... 300 cars - if you consider different paint schemes to count as different cars, 
 then you got 300 cars :rolleyes:
  
  this title is definitely geared toward the fans of previous simbin games, and the lack of any true 
 next-gen content won't draw in any new-comers to the series, wanting to try any game that actually 
 utilizes features on their 8800gtx. i'm not a fan of the ea sport business model of rehashing titles 
 year after year (madden 08 pc, anyone?) , as this kind of thing wears thin on loyal customers very 
 quick. simbin shouldn't sell out, but at the same time i understand their need to create a larger 
 race-sim fanbase and stronger brand-recognition. let's cross our fingers for dx10 race 08, x360, 
 and ps3. +cross platform online mp. i reviewed race06 last year and gs put up their official review 
 with an identical score. it's obvious that the company continues to listen to the community to 
 enhance their product. hopefully, race 08 will be that leap into the next gen that we're all waiting 
 for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryan72
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 17, 2007 4:15 pm PT
Review:  The old game RACE06 with everything else you wanted out of that game... well RACE07 has it all. 
 Like GTR2, you can d/l tracks &amp; cars, you can create your own 'skin' for your car, plus a bunch 
 of extras you might not expect... spectator mode, etc. The gameplay is classic Simbin Realism. You 
 need to go through Steam to play on-line. But you can purchase the disc and play offline too.
 
  Its just another classic... so buy it &amp; enjoy. I would not pay more than $20. I paid that on 
 Amazon &amp; Steam wants $39.99. Hmmm....20 for the boxed disc... or 40 for an on-line copy:) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Son_of_Kana
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 10, 2007 10:49 am PT
Review:  SimBin has made the best racing sims on market today.
  They sure know how to simulate different cars accurately and make hardcore fans happy.
  
  These 
 past games havent been too easy to get started with, you need lots of committment. Many casual 
 gamers have frustrated and switched to easyer games like need for speed series.
  
  But now SimBin ships out two games in one package.
  You see, Race 07 is a hardcore simulation 
 that will keep sim fans happy.
  Theres lots of driving aids and gameplay options to make it easy to start with, many gamers who 
 have never before played a rac&iacute; ng sim will enjoy Race 07.
  You will need to have some sort of steering wheel though.
  As your skill builds up you will be 
 able to switch off these aids one by one and eventually enter the world of true driving simulation.
 
  
  This one features all the same cars and tracks as the previous game and adds lots of more. Like 
 legendary BMW m3 '87 and introduces formula style cars for the first time in SimBin game.
  
  All in all, this one is great game to keep all kind of racing fans, from beginners to hardcore 
 sim racers, nailed in front of their computers for a long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matej365
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 9, 2007 12:00 pm PT
Review:  I am test driver, so i can tell this game is almoust too real. I also try grt2 and this game reflect 
 same quality, but its diferent to drive. You have to be real accurate and precise, to set a good 
 time. All cars have a different aproche of handling and there is a great filling, when your car 
 start to sliding. I try it with G25 wheel and i feel almoust everything compare in real car. I 
 wont tell you any further, so if you are real driver, you shoud have the game, and i am looking 
 forward to see you on track in online racing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nvideaman
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 7, 2007 7:53 am PT
Review:  I would say this game is more like the need for speed games but more asociated with the GTR games. 
 the cars are pretty good and many to choose from. the gameplay of the game was great and easy to 
 adjust to. the race race on the game were a bit difficult but hey it a game, we all need a little 
 challenge to have a little fun. I have spent about 15 hours playing this game so far any still haveing 
 fun with it. Overall i would recomend this game to people who like a good raceing game and also 
 a good challenge. this is my first review ever people so dont judge me harshly. Also the bigger 
 you tv the better the game play will be. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
