-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: RACE - The WTCC Game
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/driving/racetheofficialwtccgame/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Fantastic attention to detail.
 Great visuals.
 Thrilling online racing.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Needs racing peripherals to play effectively.
 Lack of car setup explanation can hamper performance.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jan  5, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.8
Critic Score: 7.5, 6 Review (s)
User Score: 8.1, 445 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Eidos Interactive
Developer: SimBin
Genre: GT / Street Racing
Date:     Nov 24, 2006 (EU)

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Simbin follows up its GTR 2 success with another great PC racing sim, this time set in the World 
 Touring Car series. 

  Although GTR 2 was only released a couple of months ago, Swedish outfit SimBin has been working 
 flat out on the follow-up title, Race - The WTCC Game. In many respects the two titles look and 
 feel similar, but there are crucial differences that make Race a compelling game in its own right. 

          The game features fully licensed drivers, vehicles, and circuits.     

  Race's most striking feature is that it displays a wonderful attention to detail. Clearly it's 
 a game that's been developed by racing fans, and if you follow the World Touring Car Championship 
 in real life, you'll feel right at home as soon as the game is loaded. The game has an official 
 license from the sport's governing body, the FIA, so all of the driver and vehicle data is correct 
 as of the end of the 2006 season.  

  That means that it's possible to race as one of a whole host of real-life drivers -- world champion 
 Andy Priaulx included -- in a range of car models. Alfa Romeos, BMWs, Seats, Chevrolets, Peugeots, 
 and Hondas are all in there, lovingly re-created from the suspension upward. They all look just 
 like the real thing, and it's fair to say that no two cars drive in quite the same way, whether 
 that be from the differences between front- and rear-wheel drive, the weight of the car, or the 
 number of gears. Jumping between any two vehicles, you'll find a subtly different experience. Something 
 that adds to that feeling of variety is the fully modeled car interiors -- with seats, windows, and 
 dashboards all accurate -- and you'll even find fully functioning windscreen wipers that will clean 
 away dust on a dry day or wipe away water on a wet one.  

  Weather plays a big part in the game and can be set to dry, rain, heavy rain, or changeable, and 
 it's possible to see the weather conditions vary as a race progresses. The conditions on the track 
 have a massive impact on how you need to drive, and if you want to stand any chance at all in wet 
 races, you'll need to get your racing line just right, not to mention your braking zones and acceleration 
 points.  

  But even if you practice all of those excessively, you still need to make sure that the car is 
 set up correctly. As you'd expect from a game that's so detailed, practically every aspect of the 
 car's mechanical settings can be altered -- the ride height, the brake balance, the tyre compound, 
 the springs, the wing settings, and much, much more. If you happen to have a degree in automotive 
 engineering, it'll be a breeze. If you don't, it can all be pretty daunting on the one hand, and 
 a severe racing handicap on the other.  

  The primary problem here is that there's very little explanation as to what any of the settings 
 actually do. There's no tooltip that explains how changing the tyre pressures will affect braking 
 or how the gear ratios can give you better top speed. If you have played similar racing games in 
 the past, from Geoff Crammond's Formula One Grand Prix onward, you might have a working knowledge 
 of the basics, but beyond that, you'll need to put in some serious research time to get to grips 
 with it.  

  You can make things a little easier on yourself by adjusting pretty much anything you can think 
 of in the game options. If the opposition is proving too tough, simply reduce their ability next 
 time around, or even just have fewer cars on the track. Tailoring the game to your own skill level 
 can take some time to achieve, but when you get it right, you'll feel much more at home.  

  Once you're on the track and experiencing the thrill of racing, it's possible to forget pretty 
 much anything else other than the sheer fun of driving fast cars around world-famous circuits. 
 Granted, the vehicles in Race don't move as quickly as those in GTR 2, but they do seem to have 
 more of a physical presence -- just as in real life, the WTCC drivers aren't frightened of the odd 
 nudge here and there.  

  The driver artificial intelligence in the game seems to be balanced well. Your opponents will generally 
 be tough to beat at the right difficulty settings, and if you show them too much of a corner, they 
 certainly aren't afraid to try and pass you. In general, they're pretty careful not to send you 
 spinning, and while that's an area you might take advantage of, it's important not to damage your 
 car in the process, as this can have a big impact on the car's performance. Although you can adjust 
 the amount of damage your vehicle will sustain in the event of a shunt, having a real penalty for 
 hitting other cars -- or walls -- adds an edge to the racing. While you can sustain punctures and lose 
 pieces of bodywork, there are also terminal suspension failures to greet the really careless driver. 

          Varying weather can make for exciting, and difficult, racing.     

  Visually, the game stands out as a really nice piece of work. The care that's gone into the car 
 models is mirrored in the surroundings, as well. The tracks have all been re-created closely from 
 real-life circuits, and even if you have played other racing games that claim to feature those 
 tracks, the feeling of authenticity is such that Race shows them in a whole new light. For example, 
 the first two corners of Brands Hatch have never been quite such a roller-coaster ride as they 
 are in this game, and many of the 10 circuits in the game will be new to most people.  

  The sound in the game has been researched and implemented well, and all of the cars feature some 
 satisfyingly throaty engine sounds, which vary from vehicle to vehicle. Crashing into other cars 
 will reward you with the sickening crunch of crumpling bodywork or the tinkling of breaking glass. 
 Unfortunately, the voice effects in the game are slightly limited. Especially underwhelming is 
 the response of your team over the radio when you finish a race, which retains a solid level of 
 disinterest whether you come in first or last. There is a nice, pumping sound track to accompany 
 the menus to get you in the mood, although the game does well at getting you into the action sooner 
 rather than later.  

  Adding some nice variety to Race are two additional driving series, one using modern-day Mini Coopers 
 and the other going back in time and featuring the BMWs and Alfas of the 1987 championship. Once 
 again, both types of cars handle differently from the main vehicles, with the '80s racers being 
 simply terrifying in the wet due to their complete lack of driving aids to assist you. No traction 
 control or antilock brakes means that you'll need a fine degree of skill and precision to just 
 get around the track in one piece, let alone beat anybody else along the way.  

  Talking of skill and precision, there's really no other way to play this game other than on a decent 
 set of racing peripherals. The game does support completely configurable keyboard controls, but 
 it's simply not possible to replicate an authentic driving experience on anything other than an 
 analog input. If you have a steering wheel and pedals for your PC, you're all set -- force feedback 
 all the better -- but if not, you may struggle to get much out of the game in the long term. Race 
 is a serious driving simulator and requires an investment to match.  

  Online multiplayer races are fully supported in the game, and it's possible to take on up to 25 
 other human players across a local area network or the Internet. The lobby system is fairly straightforward, 
 and there's usually an event in progress somewhere to jump into. Many of the race meetings are 
 private events and locked to newcomers, but find one that isn't, and you'll soon discover how much 
 more fulfilling it is racing against real people. Most of the drivers you'll encounter are skilled 
 and mature enough not to tolerate silly driving, so it's wise to attain a decent level of competence 
 before you head online, if only to save your pride from a mauling. The performance of online games 
 is generally good, but it will depend on your connection and those of the other racers.  

  You can also participate in single-race weekends (featuring all of the practice, qualifying, and 
 warm-up sessions) or jump into a basic one-off quick race. Or, you can take any of the cars out 
 for a practice spin and save your best laps. You'll then be able to send those laps to your friends 
 or even upload them to third-party Web sites for others to race against, which provides another 
 long-term challenge.  

          Attention to detail in the game is superb, with individual cockpits.     

  The game 
 is currently being distributed via Steam, so you'll need to have access to an Internet connection 
 and register with that service to be able to play the game. However, once you've registered, you 
 can play in offline mode without having to reconnect each time.  

  Overall, there's plenty of fun to be had with Race, and if you're partial to serious racing games, 
 like the idea of experiencing an authentic re-creation of touring-car racing, and own at the very 
 least a steering wheel peripheral, you won't want to miss out. If arcade racing is more your preference 
 or you have no plans to invest in pedals et al any time soon, you might find it a little less appealing. 
 However, for what it is, Race excels as a benchmark PC racing title.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (15 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: rarson
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 8, 2008 8:05 pm PT
Review:  For a long time, up until RACE, every time Simbin released a new game, I would buy it in the hopes 
 that it would actually be a new game, and not just a rehash of the old game which itself was just 
 a rehash of another old game. After RACE, I realized that it was hopeless.
  
  I wasted half a dozen game purchases buying the same lame racing game, all of which are based off 
 the 1999 game Sports Car GT (that's why the graphics and physics suck, because you're playing a 
 10-year-old game) . And all of them are mediocre.
  
  I actually bought RACE '07, not the original RACE, but it doesn't matter because you can barely 
 even tell the difference from the box art. And that doesn't matter either, because you wouldn't 
 be able to tell which game is which if you watched them both side-by-side.
  
  In fact, given similar car models, you'd be hard-pressed to figure out what is what among ANY Simbin 
 game, all of which use the same old engine from Sports Car GT.
  
  Here's a little history lesson: in 1999, Sports Car GT was released. It had some pretty darn good 
 graphics, a lot of neat car models, and some cool tracks, but really bad physics and super boring 
 gameplay. In short, it was very mediocre, but memorable for those graphics which were ahead of 
 their time.
  
  In 2005, after having paid to use the Sports Car GT engine and apparently tweaking neither the 
 graphics nor the physics, Simbin releases GTR, which is basically the same game except for the 
 different cars and tracks (maybe higher resolution?) . It still sucks, but this time, hoards of 
 PC racing sim fans are fooled into thinking that it doesn't. I don't know how that happened, but 
 it did.
  
  Then Simbin proceeds to release GT Legends, GTR 2, RACE, and RACE 07 within the next two years 
 all as separate games, despite the fact that there's almost no distinguishable difference between 
 any of the games, with the slight exception of some pretty cool car models in GT Legends. RACE 
 07 is the culmination of 8 years and 5 sequels worth of work, and is almost indistinguishable from 
 the original game.
  
  If you think Simbin deserves your hard-earned money (I don't) , buy GT Legends. It still sucks, 
 but not quite so much. None of their other games are worth playing, let alone buying, especially 
 if you own any one of them. If you want a real racing sim that is fun to play, any of Papyrus' 
 old games will beat the crap out of this and all other Simbin games. Probably because the guys 
 at Papyrus had actually DRIVEN cars at the track so they had a clue what driving a car actually 
 feels like.
  
  I wish Papyrus was still making games... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RexTTer
Rating: 1
Date: Apr 6, 2008 11:35 am PT
Review:  I bought a full-price legitimate copy of this game. It took about an hour to install the rubish 
 STEAM copy protection, however it played ok and the game was good. Shortly after I changed my PC 
 and so had to install it again on the new machine. 
  
  So another hour wasted and guess what? Now the STEAM copy protection will not validate the software 
 so now I cannot play it! What is the point of buying full priced games if you can't play them? 
 For the couple of races Race was played for it seemed like a really good game. But this copy protection, 
 it has ruined it. The game is in the waste basket and I'm seriously considering the merits of buying 
 legitimate software if they make you jump thru so many hoops to actually use it.
  
  Check your software boxes when in Game and see if there is a mention of 'STEAM' there. On this 
 box it's in the tiniest print you can imagine. But it's there and it's a warning that if you buy 
 this game the copy protection will be so overwhelming you will hate it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brewer74
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 19, 2008 8:33 pm PT
Review:  I am an avid PC racer, I have played almost all of the important PC race sims over the years, and 
 I have found that Simbin is the best of the lot for developing the serious racing sims. This latest 
 installment is no exception. The real physics are upheld, without the massive V12 cars found in 
 GTR2, and as a result, it is a bit easier to play. Dont get me wrong, the physics are still top 
 notch, you need to know the braking points of the tracks and the limitations of the car that you 
 are driving. You cant through it into corners, Pro Street style, which is what makes this game 
 great. You have to THINK about the next corner and each little mistake can translate into seconds 
 lost each lap. Move over Grn Turismo, these games are the REAL driving simulators. The selection 
 of cars is a bit smaller this year, although the open wheelers and formula 3000 make an impression. 
 The online element of the game is very strong. Joining a online session of 30+ players really makes 
 you concentrate, because if you stuff up, you have 29 other hardcore racers giving you a hard time 
 about the stupid pass or that little nudge. Overall, it is one of the best Hardcore racers out 
 there. It is no Pro Street, thats for sure, but aims to fullfill the proper racing fans. Bring 
 on a F1 Simbin game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sNaKeyy
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 30, 2007 2:58 am PT
Review:  SimBin comes back with a new game, this time easily than GTR 1 and GTR2 and GT Legends (because 
 many said it's too difficult) . It has the licenses from all the pilots in WTCC like Rickard Rydell 
 (Seat Leon) , Alain Menu (Chevrolet Lacetti) and many others, and all the tracks from WTCC. Everything 
 is made perfectly, from environment to cockpits. Impressive feeling is on raining. You'll see how 
 the water reflects the car and lights. The sound of the engines is awesome, the scratched bodywork 
 and sound of braking make the atmosphere great. The music in menu is well chosen, but the voices 
 heard from the Team on winning the Races are boring after 2-3 races. I recommend this game only 
 to those who like real simulators and would spend time to practice the tracks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JRIXM8
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 27, 2007 9:30 am PT
Review:  As a simmer, I bought this game because I have been fully satisfied from the older game which used 
 the simbin engine. After a few races, I realize that this game brings me, nothing more than, that 
 feeling I had, playing the older simbin's games, such as GTR 2, GTR, GT-Legends. Surely, this game 
 is very good at all but has nothing new to offer to a gamer who has played GTR 2, GTR or GT-Legends. 
 If you have ever played, one of those games don't buy it. Graphics, sounds and car's feeling same 
 as GTR 2. It's nothing new in this game. Another simbin's game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smokineh
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 26, 2007 4:05 pm PT
Review:  It's better than GTR2 in that it's easier to get used to the control of the cars. I've only played 
 it for about 5 hours however, I started to get really addicted to it. Some of you fans will notice 
 how awesome the detail is. There was actually a time when I noticed a bug splattered on my windshield! 
 I have never seen this in any game, let alone a SIM! All you racing fans should do yourselves a 
 favour and buy this game - you won't be let down - It's a great SIM (however, you NEED a wheel 
 and pedals - preferably a MOMO) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ggoldsmith
Rating: 10
Date: May 2, 2007 7:02 am PT
Review:  I'm used to arcade type racers like Flat-Out 1 and 2 and the NFS series. Well for $20, I downloaded 
 this serious type sim. Well let me tell ya, I'm using my usual controller, the XBOX 360 for Windows. 
 Now at first the cars seemed uncontrollable, but after a while, using the games default settings 
 for the XBOX controller, I managed to improve to the point where I'm now earing points on the semi-pro 
 difficulty setting. Now I'm even staying with the crowd on the PRO level. The point is, I think, 
 that as I learn the tracks, I'll get even better. Of course, a wheel and pedal is much better, 
 but if you don't like a cluttered desk, you can use a console controller with twin analogue sticks 
 like my XBOX 360 controller. if you know the tracks, your cars will pretty much stick to a line 
 if you are careful. One needs to develope good thumb muscle control and that will improve with 
 practice.
  
  I don't know much about the car set-up options for handling, but the default set-up for these cars 
 works for a casual gamer like myself.
  
  Also, I'm finding out that there is nothing quite like a realistic racing game. Kind of makes NFS 
 seem bush league.
  
  And not to forget the graphics: PERFECT 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryan72
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 29, 2007 12:37 pm PT
Review:  Its a fun game... a steep learning curve for me (super noob) and full of players who have been playing 
 racing sims for a while... but as a total newcomer to racing sims I get a rush out of this game. 
 I like serious gaming. Meaning I play FPS shooters on-line but only on Friendly Fire ON servers. 
 This game is like that, its rewards you for thinking ahead, and punishes you for rushing into the 
 'unknown'. I just d/l'd some 'custom car setups' since there is a lot of room for customization 
 of your car. But its some technical stuff, unless you really know cars IMHO, so the custom setups 
 allow me to race each car with each track as 'optimized' as can be... and its amazing how much more 
 performance these tweaks do compared to the default car settings. Anyways, all in all this is a 
 game that I'm still 'learning' and that's that. But the more I play it, the more I like it, so 
 thumbs up :)
  Would be nice if the game was 20 bones (i paid 30) but its all good, I only say this cause GTR2 
 is 20 ;P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LazerFX
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 21, 2007 5:01 pm PT
Review:  Graphics - Stunning. 9/10. Absolutely brilliant. GTR2 was brilliant, this takes that already excellent 
 system and polishes it that bit more. There are now actual people who will wave flags at the side 
 of the road, the smoke/gravel/skid effects are so much punchier, and the in-car view now gets bugs 
 on the windscreen. Water effects are now noticeably better than GTR2, so they're pretty damn fantastic 
 Only quibbles that I'd have would be that close-up the characters do look rather low-poly and low-res 
 textured, which when you get a long-view stationary camera shot positioned with one of the marshalls 
 positioned bang-slap bottom quarter shot, can be disconcerting. As an example of how good the graphics 
 are, they've got a Eurosport logo on the top, and someone else walked in the room, looked at the 
 screen (Which was showing a re-play of several cars fighting it out through a corner) and said, 
 I didn't know you could get sattelite on this thing Performance - Poor - 6/10. Very poor, considering 
 how well GTR2 ran. I've got a pretty solid gaming rig (E6700, 2GB, X1950XTX 512MB) , and it stutters 
 and jerks like mad. I've had to drop the resolution, down to just 1024x768, and drop the AA to 
 2x just to make it playable and consistent at above 40fps. FRAPS shows that normally it's getting 
 about 80fps, there are just situations - which are normally turning a corner onto a long straight 
 - where you'll get a fractional pause - maybe 1/10th or 2/15ths of a second. However, they'll be 
 enough to put you into a spin as things 'catch-up'. Considering the graphics (while better than 
 GTR2) aren't a whole generation leap, I didn't expect performance to be that much affected.
  
  Physics - Great - 8/10. This is SimBin, and their previous products have all been of great 
 quality and had great physics capabilities. The Race doesn't appear to advance too much beyond 
 what was in GTR2, but what it does is tweak the feel of the cars, so that there's slightly more 
 'feel' for what is going to happen. Floor it round the corners, and you'll still end up back-end 
 in the gravel... but you'll probably know why you did it, and how much less throttle would have 
 helped you to not end up facing oncoming traffic.
  
  Sound - Good - 8/10. There hasn't really been much development in the sound from GTR2, which doesn't 
 really matter as the sound in that was pretty nice anyway. The music has been changed - there is 
 now one piece of music that plays while in the menus. It's not bad, infact it's rather catchy, 
 but I'd rather have multiple pieces ala GTR2. Of course, the cars in game do sound distinct, and 
 the other vehicles, skids, crashes and such sound pretty much as you'd expect.
  
  Overall Gameply - Very good - 7/10. The whole WTCC thing is very well done, but I feel there are 
 a few things that they should have kept in that they didn't. The interface now feels 'dumbed-down' 
 compared to GTR and GTR2. Some may like this, but I liked the feel of the GTR interface. While 
 I realise that this is just a personal matter, and the same sorts of options are still there, I 
 think this was a step backwards. Pit stops don't appear to have been implemented - at all - other 
 than for stop/go penalties. I don't really understand why, as there is a pit-in system, but if 
 you go into the pits, you just drive through. I've done this several times, in several different 
 types of races, and it doesn't work. I'm pretty sure this is a bug, but reading on the official 
 forums, it appears that most people have this, so it's looking pretty surprising that it doesn't 
 have a feature like this. Those are quibbles though, as the racing, the two-race format, the weight 
 penalties (Boy it's a shock when you first get a heavier (or lighter) weight applied) and the overall 
 feel is pretty good.
  
  Final Comments - A few performance tweaks (Especially to sort the weird stuttering coming onto 
 the straights) and the addition of Pitting, and this game would score a good solid 8.5 or 9 - it's 
 that good. I'm expecting that SimBin will patch these into the game pretty soon - I was a pretty 
 early adopter (Purchasing over Steam, for a very competitive price - worked out to less than &pound;25, 
 including VAT here in the UK thanks to the strong pound) , so first-release jitters are to be expected. 
 There are a lot less than other games that I've purchased first-off, so I'm quite looking forward 
 to this game getting the polish that being handed out to a few thousand people, who then scream 
 at the developers for solutions, gives it. If you're not that bothered but want a good racing game, 
 I'd say give it a month, maybe two, and get the game. By then it'll have settled down, matured, 
 and be ready for general consumption 
::::::

::::::
UserName: idcool
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 21, 2007 7:06 am PT
Review:  Ive played a lot of racing games in the past, arcade ones and simulation. This definitely fits 
 the simulation category. In my opinion this game has loads to offer, the racing is superb and gives 
 you real control of the car. On a graphics stand point it has great onboard animations and detail. 
 The roads and scenery could be better but still lives up to a good graphical experience.
  
  But there is a down side to the game, the online experience is poor. There are few servers that 
 are online constantly that offer a good connection. At times other cars lag across the track which 
 can put you off. But if you find a good server or they improve the net code this game is simply 
 brilliant. There is an option to play as classic 80's BMW's or Alfa Romeo's which is definitely 
 for the pros as they offer no traction control or stability but the rewards from completing a race 
 is immense. After playing the official F1 game there are alot of similarities which you appreciate 
 if you have played F1.
  
  So on the whole it wont appeal to someone who wants a quick race like NFS but to someone who wants 
 to play a racing sim will get great rewards from this game over time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: David_Helmond
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jan 20, 2007 4:03 am PT
Review:  Personally, I like racing games like NFS. You need to get the feeling of the car, which takes just 
 a minute, and then you can race without any problems. With Race - The WTCC Game, it is all about 
 controls, and to fine tune your vehicle. The game itself looks great, but I think it is only worthwhile, 
 if you really want to invest in learning all details of this game, and if you like realistic (with 
 a lot of rules) racing. To keep my judgement as short and simple as possible:
  -Looks great!
  -Very detailed options and tuning abilities
  -If you like realistic simulator-like 
 racing: buy it!
  -If you like racing without to much thinking: stick to NFS! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wildride
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 10, 2007 8:05 am PT
Review:  I own quite a few racing sims, GTR, GTR2, Live for Speed, rFactor etc. and they all have there 
 place in my collection. I'm not one of the fastest Wheelers out there so th spped of the cars in 
 this game are to my liking. I really enjoy pack racing and this game does provide good pack racing. 
 Great game. I hope they bring it to the Xbox 360 as well. I've not spent a lot of time on line 
 as yet. I'm hoping not to run into 12 year olds that are just out there to ruin someone elses race. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: liali
Rating: 1.5
Date: Jan 6, 2007 5:29 am PT
Review:  one of the worest racing games i played .bad control, outdated graphics, very bad sounds. i have to 
 play nfs or burnout to forget what i have played .this is just a **** game. really very very bad 
 game . i hope to forget it easily. advice don't lose your time playing this game. i think man who 
 play trackmania or any other racing games will know the difference. really i can't understand people 
 who give this game high score at gamespot if they play it or not. and if they played it .did they 
 play nfs, midnight club, trackmania, etc.. these are the greatest games you can play it. finally i 
 hope every one to avoid this game as much as possible 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sj420
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 5, 2006 7:53 am PT
Review:  i haven't looked thoroughly into every section of the game yet, but my initial impressions have 
 been very good. the focus is on the WTCC this time around, and it's a welcome change of pace.
 
  
  the core gameplay hasn't changed much from GTR2, if you've ever played simbin titles before, you'll 
 feel right at home. championship seasons, quickraces, and the usual multiplayer light up the board, 
 with a slew of options to tweak to your heart's content. if you're new to serious race sims, the 
 learning curve will be a little steep.
  
  graphically, the game looks like any other simbin title, and that's not a bad thing. the car models, 
 the tracks, and the excellent cockpits all show a level of detail and polish that you've come to 
 know and love. the car/track association in the replays is better, but there are times when the 
 cars still look floaty. the game natively supports widescreen res with hor+.
  
  the audio is great as expected, but personally i felt the volume settings were a little off balance, 
 esp with your own engine vs opponents' engines. tweak the sound levels to get the game to sound 
 the way you think it should. collision sounds are sometimes incorrect (ping for a solid rear-end) , 
 but these are really minor complaints. the effects themselves are clean and clear. best physics 
 in a race sim, period. get familiar with changing settings, because it's worth it. but i'm sure 
 most race sim fans don't need me to tell them that.
  
  one gripe: NEED MORE CARS! the car list for this game is not impressive at all. one might say it 
 barely meets the mark. now, i know the GTR games weren't really big on number of cars either, but 
 that needs to change. it's clear that simbin has reached a very high level of refinement with their 
 game engine, so it should be natural now to shift to a content-focus. yes, the multiplayer will 
 give it a lot of replay value, but an extensive car list (every year of WTCC) and a handful of 
 additional tracks would have made this a superb game.
  
  i definitely felt the game was thrown together for the holiday deadline, but simbin has perfected 
 the formula, and even their rush job feels like a solid game.
  
  recommend playing with a competent wheel, of course. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ForzaCC
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 2, 2006 3:44 am PT
Review:  No surprises with SimBin's most recent addition to its driving-series. Race - The WTCC Game has 
 the same setup as GTR2 and thus has the same feel when playing the game. However, as the WTCC cars 
 are slower than the ones in GTR2 some might get disappointed while others may feel that the wheels 
 are more controllable. Whatever your preference, Race WTCC is a well-made game, but runs the risk 
 of losing points due to the fact that it's been released quite close to the GTR2 premiere. However, 
 if you're into network-gaming your possibilities of battling it out with other drivers on line 
 - due to the popularity of the SimBin driving-games - are virtually endless. All in all, you can't 
 really go wrong with a game like this - chapeau! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
