-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Rage of Mages II: Necromancer
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/rpg/rageofmages2necromancer/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Aug  2, 1999
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 6.2, 16 Review (s)
User Score: 7.8, 127 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Monolith Productions
Developer: Nival Interactive
Genre: Role-Playing
Date:     Jul 31, 1999
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
It has an entertaining storybook plot and is fun to play, which will make you wish it had the poise 
 and styling of the first-rate role-playing game it doesn't even aspire to be. 

 If one half of game sequels innovate and improve upon their predecessors while the other half offer 
 up still more of what the original had to offer, then Rage of Mages II falls squarely into the 
 second category. It looks, sounds, and feels almost identical to the first game, which was a Warcraft 
 II clone on the surface and a story-driven role-playing game beneath that guise. And although the 
 original Rage of Mages didn't even look or sound that good to begin with, somehow the sequel also 
 manages to scrape by, what with its similarly subtle and enjoyable combination of real-time strategy 
 and story elements all within an accessible and responsive interface. It has an entertaining storybook 
 plot and is fun to play, which will make you wish it had the poise and styling of the first-rate 
 role-playing game it doesn't even aspire to be.  

 Rage of Mages II recycles many if not most of the original's visual and audio effects, and its new 
 scenery, monsters, and items will easily blend with the old material to make the game seem just 
 a little too familiar, at least on first impression. Your orange-cloaked heroes still look dull, 
 although their paper doll-style portraits can be adorned with a seemingly limitless combination 
 of fantastic weapons and armor, from your typical steel sword and tower shield on up to magical 
 adamantine halberds and dragon-scale leather leggings. Otherwise, the game still looks like a slightly 
 refined Warcraft II, with a top-down perspective and plain 2D creatures and settings.  

 On further inspection you'll notice a few nice touches, like terrain topography, and how it affects 
 your heroes' speed, and lighting effects from spells and such, and how they're more visible at 
 night than during the day. The graphics in Rage of Mages II look clean and bright and may even 
 grow on you after a while, although the dense scenery has a bad habit of obscuring the action sometimes. 
 But this isn't a game you'll be showing off to anyone and is instead the sort that will have others 
 wondering why you even bother with it.  

 You'll bother because Rage of Mages II is both open-ended and cohesive, a combination that is difficult 
 to achieve at all, let alone this well. Though the campaign is essentially linear, in that you 
 need to complete one quest to go on to the next, you have a lot of flexibility in choosing how 
 to approach each task. You'll learn about quests by chatting with the patrons at the inn; you'll 
 hire all manner of mercenaries to aid you; and you'll tend to have several different quests that 
 you can attempt at any one time. Within those missions, you'll often learn of other tasks that 
 require your attention, and just as likely there will be more quests in store upon your successful 
 return. Likewise, the missions themselves offer a lot of variety, under the constraint that all 
 are fairly brief and emphasize tactical combat, since you'll only be controlling your heroes and 
 any mercenaries that come along.  

 You'll save a starving village by defending its flocks of sheep from a pack of wolves; you'll reassemble 
 a shattered artifact; and you'll fight dragons, bands of orcs, and renegade knights and necromancers. 
 You'll restore order to villages subjected to tyranny; you'll reunite loved ones; you'll avenge 
 orphans; and you'll arrange to help a pack of carnivorous squirrels return to their homes. All 
 these and dozens of other such quests play out like typical attack and defense missions with which 
 you're familiar from countless real-time strategy games, but Rage of Mages II provides the context, 
 continuity, and sense of reward to make these tasks seem meaningful. And thanks to a well-written 
 script, a continuous experience-point system for your characters, and a stringent economic scale 
 that demands you spend your wealth carefully, Rage of Mages II encourages you to keep on going. 

 Although the game is challenging even on the medium difficulty setting, playing it is easy enough. 
 With the notable exception of waypoint orders, Rage of Mages II lets you issue most every command 
 you'd want or expect from a real-time strategy game. You bind your units to hotkeys (which conveniently 
 hold over from mission to mission) , and you can easily issue move and attack orders, set your mages' 
 default spells, quickly switch weapons, stand your ground, retreat, and so forth. You can even 
 hit a key to make your character pick up all dropped items in the area, and you can toggle formation 
 movement and automatic spell-casting options. All the while, your units will do a good job of marching 
 where you tell them to, and although the game doesn't move quickly (and bogs down at higher resolutions) , 
 it maintains its performance even when a lot is happening onscreen.  

 Even though Rage of Mages II controls well, sometimes you'll find yourself stuck. You'll engage 
 in battles you're ill equipped to handle, or you'll hire the wrong help for the job. Regrettably, 
 the nature of this game is such that a great deal of trial and error is in order. You'll often 
 blunder into ambushes, and the moment one of your heroes dies, the game ends, demanding you reload 
 and reattempt the scenario. Fortunately, you can save at any time, and trial and error with Rage 
 of Mages II is so painless and so commonplace that soon enough you'll think nothing of it. The 
 game even offers a convenient option to abort missions altogether, so that you can choose something 
 else and try that scenario again when you're more prepared. Like the original, there is also a 
 multiplayer game (as well as a new scenario editor) , but also like the original, you'll have more 
 fun playing through the campaign and getting to the bottom of its story.  

 You'll live without Rage of Mages II if you're looking for the next big thing. It's a fairly simple 
 and straightforward game, and it doesn't look that great, and its music will gnaw at you even faster 
 than its second-rate voice acting. On top of that, it's nearly identical to its predecessor, even 
 when you account for its few technical refinements and its original story. For this reason alone, 
 the game is probably best suited to those who aren't already experienced with the series, since 
 the stand-alone plot is accessible to newcomers while returning players who didn't fall in love 
 with the first game won't like the sequel any better. But whichever category you fall into, if 
 you go into Rage of Mages II without terribly high expectations, you'll find that its effective 
 combination of gameplay elements, storybook style, and likable characters add up to a game that 
 feels like more than the sum of its parts.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (2 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Slayer_Sam
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 16, 2006 11:04 am PT
Review:  If you? re looking for a RPG with outstanding graphics, Rage of Mages 2 will immediately turn you 
 away. While shopping in towns, the graphics are fairly nice, but when adventuring, your characters 
 resemble that of square blobs (kind of like in Zelda 1) . There is no detail to the characters, 
 including monsters. The scenery is primarily composed of trees drawn of sprites, and primitive 
 ground and water textures. In today's day and age it? s almost impossible to make a game successful 
 without utilizing some sort of 3D optimizations. Rage of Mages 2 has absolutely none. The sound 
 in Rage of Mages 2 becomes repetitive very quickly. Cheap environmental audio effects like crickets 
 are found on a regular basis. When leading a unit, or character to a certain place he/she always 
 seems to repeat the same saying. For example, I wanted to make a magic user so I chose the magician. 
 When I told him to move somewhere he said 'ok,' clicked on a monster for him to fight, and he says 
 'ok,' told him to pick up an object and again, he says 'ok.' I thought that it may have been just 
 the magician who does this, and I guess I was wrong, because the fighter also repeats the same 
 saying over and over again. Lousy environmental sounds and generic sayings make the sound one of 
 the worst parts of this game. Gameplay in a game like this is fairly easy to rate. There is no 
 gameplay. It? s as simple as that. You click, and your character does it. The in-game menu's are 
 set up nicely though, and easy to navigate. In towns, it? s also easy to buy equipment, listen to 
 rumors, and visit the church. One thing I didn't like about this game was that all the towns were 
 EXACTLY the same. You visit a town many miles away from the other one, and it looks identical to 
 the original one. Fighting monsters is as easy as click on it. Depending upon whether or not your 
 character is stronger decides who is going to win the fight. There? s just not really much strategy 
 to it. Rage of Mages 2 may be entertaining for the really, really die-hard medieval battle strategist. 
 After playing though the first couple of levels in RoM2, I decided that it was time for it to visit 
 the recycling bin. Rage of Mages 2 offers nothing new to the old, decrepit style of video games. 
 Rage of Mages 2 is just about identical to the first one in every single aspect. Graphics are the 
 same, sounds are the same, towns are the same, etc, etc. Multi-player is the only semi-redeemable 
 feature of this game. You can choose from the generic multiplayer options, either ipx, tcp/ip, 
 serial, etc. You can create a character and then bring him on a cooperative adventure with a couple 
 other friends to battle monsters and find treasure. You can also choose one of a bunch of maps 
 to play on. Even with friends, it's going to be hard to try to play this game for more than an 
 hour though. Overall, Rage of Mages 2 is a weak attempt at trying to make a good sequel out of 
 a not so good original. Rage of Mages 2 offers nothing new, nothing changed to make it a better 
 game. I would only recommend this game to the gamer who has not had a chance to experience a couple 
 of the better games like it. For example, Warhammer was much better (as far as battle strategies 
 go) . Should there be a RoM3, I hope Monolith will get on the development team to be more up-to-date 
 on their graphics, sound, story, and gameplay situation. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: woef
Rating: 7.1
Date: May 12, 2006 5:34 am PT
Review:  ROM 2 is a great game with nice features, but i have seen these features in ROM 1 already, so there 
 are not many NEW features.
  There are some new enemies though.
  
  Gameplay:
  Normal, nothing too say here.
  +Cool enemies, lots of weapons and items.
  +Unique RPG.
  -Sometimes 
 a bit lame :p
  
  Graphics:
  +Does look good for the old times.
  +Runs good
  -Very old, does not look very good.
  
  Online/Multiplay:
  +This is the most interesting part 
 of this game, because it is so good and it 
  is cool too play.
  -Only for playing alone, becauese no one is online :p
  
  Variety:
  +lots of stuff too kill
 
  +shops
  +lots of items
  +quests in multiplay
  -Not a big singleplayer campaign
  -Singleplayer misses something
  
  Value:
  Good value for multiplay, but not for single.
 
  
  Sounds:
  +Music
  -Enemy sounds
  
  This was my review for ROM2
  cya all
  
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
