-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Railroad Tycoon 3
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/railroadtycoon3/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 31, 2003
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.7
Critic Score: 8.0, 25 Review (s)
User Score: 8.5, 1,131 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Gathering
Developer: PopTop Software
Genre: Business Strategy
Date:     Oct 23, 2003 &raquo;  
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Railroad Tycoon III is surprisingly easy to learn for a game of its scope, and it has something 
 for anyone with a fondness for trains or making loads of money -- which means just about everyone. 
 

  As much play as "tycoon" has had in PC game titles over the last few years, it can be easy to forget 
 that the term had another life before defining a game genre led by mass-market bestsellers like 
 RollerCoaster Tycoon and Zoo Tycoon. Railroad Tycoon 3 can claim an older and more authentic tycoon 
 heritage as much because of the series' more than decade-long history as the fact that it deals 
 directly with the cutthroat business practices of 19th-century industrialists like Cornelius Vanderbilt 
 and his ilk. While it builds on nostalgia for powerful steam locomotives and for earlier days when 
 the business landscape was wide open and ripe with opportunities, it's even more than that, with 
 missions that span two centuries of railroading. Even though the impressive new 3D engine makes 
 the trains plenty interesting to watch as they roar by, this isn't a strict simulation for train 
 lovers so much as a strategy game of business and building challenges. But as such, Railroad Tycoon 
 3 is a breeze to get into and will offer anyone hours of enjoyment.  

          Build railroads across continents for glory and personal gain.     

  Railroad Tycoon 
 3 covers a lot of ground without miring you in details best left for unseen assistants. With a 
 design that streamlines a big chunk of micromanagement, it's big-picture time and the task at hand 
 is laying down the background for industrial progress. There's no need to have played PopTop's 
 Railroad Tycoon 2 from 1998, but those who have will -- after the shock of the major graphics overhaul 
 wears off -- quickly notice that managing cargo loads is much simpler. There are also many more industries 
 to build in the extra time freed up by not micromanaging payloads, and structures can be placed 
 anywhere on the map and not just in the station. These changes, plus enhancements to the economic 
 model, work to create better pacing and a more interactive world.  

  The typical scenario has you founding a company with your limited start-up funds. Gradually, over 
 the course of 20 or 30 years, you connect the towns and cities of major regions from around the 
 world. You can play in specific time periods, like the pre-industrial Midwest, Texas at the tip 
 of the oil boom, or modern Europe during the last decade's reunification. Of course, you're not 
 alone in trying to reap the financial windfalls of having a transportation monopoly, and computer 
 players will race to grab prime routes and cut into your profits. Fighting back -- on the tracks 
 and on the stock market -- is a natural part of the tycoon legacy. A dynamic economy ups the ante, 
 with boom and bust cycles and the appearance of new industries you can buy up to diversify and 
 create more business for your trains.  

  Laying track is the first and most important step of the game. It's intuitive enough that routes 
 should connect cities that are full of goods and passengers in need of transport. Unfortunately, 
 things like hills and rivers often get in the way. Taking geography and efficiency into account 
 is what makes the seemingly simple task of connecting two points a satisfying challenge. In a process 
 that a two-part tutorial effectively walks you through, the interface makes it easy enough to drag 
 track from one point to the next. Before you release the mouse button to finalize track construction, 
 the critical element to watch is the color-coded elevation guide that marks the grade from green 
 to red for every track segment. Naturally, flat track is fast track. The great news is that there's 
 an undo button. This all-too-rare feature can really save your bacon and keep you from wasting 
 money you don't have when navigating difficult terrain. Also in your construction toolbox are options 
 for double track, electric track, and buttons that regulate the frequency that tunnels and bridges 
 appear on track as you drag it over obstacles. Building can be an intricate process of trial and 
 error in hilly regions, but the reward of zooming in the camera and turning on the grid overlay 
 is a faster route and bigger profits.  

          Steep terrain will challenge your building instincts, but the rewards are worth it.    

  Track isn't much good without trains. Depending on the time period and country, scenarios can offer 
 a dozen different steam, diesel, and electric locomotives, with some appearing or becoming obsolete 
 as the years progress. You can have quite an assortment running on a large network, picked for 
 different purposes. Fast trains are great for time-sensitive express cargos (passengers and mail) , 
 since speedy deliveries end up making you more money, and people pay more for elegant-looking trains. 
 Yet, other engines will be cheaper to buy or maintain, are more reliable, and/or are better at 
 climbing hills. Trains can also now have up to eight cars, and some engines are better at hitting 
 close to their top speeds with heavier loads.  

  The bulk of the money to be made comes from setting up smart routes with the right match of locomotives 
 and destinations. Payloads don't just magically appear. Passengers and mail now have specific destinations 
 and will only be available if your rail network connects where they want to go. Since express cargos 
 pay well, that's a reason to not only expand beyond a few industrial centers but also to connect 
 to competitors' track. Another major change is that raw materials will now move (slowly) overland 
 and along rivers, even without train connections, so you don't necessarily have to worry as much 
 about getting the basics to towns where they can be processed into more lucrative goods. While 
 building stations in the middle of nowhere just to pick up cattle or grain might have been an ordinary 
 practice in the previous game, that's mostly a thing of the past. What underscores your role in 
 a region's growth is that cities grow dynamically in response to the actions of you and your competitors, 
 adding both population and new businesses. Cities are also somewhat randomized every time a map 
 is played, and many scenarios include historical events scripted to radically affect the economy, 
 though they mostly reflect technological change.     

  To put your tycoon skills to work, there's a campaign with 16 missions and a number of stand-alone 
 scenarios, plus a sandbox mode that drops the financial part of the game to focus purely on building. 
 The "campaign" is essentially a launch pad for the missions. The notion is that of a train museum 
 with a helpful elderly curator who colorfully narrates the transition between four mission sets 
 and also narrates cinematic intros for each map's setting. There's nothing to stop you from playing 
 the missions in any order, or skipping the tutorials, but following the prescribed order does make 
 for a gentler introduction. Except for the last three futuristic scenarios that use radical geographic 
 and climatic change to create some odd, artificial challenges, all the maps are solidly grounded 
 in historical moments, putting you in charge of: the Central Pacific's push to connect the Transcontinental 
 Railway, the Orient Express, and turn-of-the century efforts to build a route across Africa.  

 
          Turn to the financial markets to fund explosive growth.     

  While you'll master the intricacies of building track, reading industrial supply and demand, and 
 routing trains within a couple of missions, the variety of goals keeps things interesting as you 
 progress through the campaign, and there's the chance to win silver and gold medals by meeting 
 stiffer challenges. The goals for all three medal levels are established in the briefing and can 
 be as simple as connecting two distant cities, at the bronze level, or as significant as acquiring 
 all other companies and gaining huge personal wealth, at the gold level. There are even a couple 
 of purely tactical missions, where no building is allowed and time is counted by minutes and days 
 rather than months and years. An early example of this has you running deliveries for the military 
 in the days following Pearl Harbor, and it takes careful planning and manual one-off routes to 
 gather up the goods from cities across the eastern seaboard. You can easily monitor your progress 
 toward medals in a ledger that is thick with statistics. This ledger is also handy for singling 
 out underperforming trains.  

  Only some mission goals require you to play the stock market, but the huge funding requirements 
 of building a major railroad will likely push you to the financial markets at some point or another. 
 Running a two-town line won't hold your interest for long. For big cash infusions early on, there's 
 the bond market to turn to, but not only will the spigot turn on and off depending on your credit 
 rating, the interest payment can weigh down a young company. As in the previous game, there's a 
 stock market that dynamically follows the fortunes of the railroad companies and the economy at 
 large. It can be as rewarding as it is risky to buy on the margin or sell short, and hostile takeovers 
 of a company with cheap stock are possible. General economic cycles and random events can have 
 a major effect on how much cargo there is to move, thus influencing your bottom line. Since you 
 don't have to deal with cargo on the level of buying low and selling high -- the automated system 
 does that now, with some settings to tweak -- it's possible to run the game at higher speeds to see 
 changes happen more quickly. There's also plenty more time to look for prime investment opportunities 
 in businesses, which can be purchased much more cheaply in cities without a train station. These 
 business can then be connected to your rail empire.  

  Railroad Tycoon 3's graphics reflect how far things have come in the last five years. The 3D engine 
 is capable of smoothly zooming from a distant regional map right up to close-ups of the trains. 
 Picturesque hillsides are covered with trees, plains are dotted with farms, and the water along 
 sea- and lakeshores gets the modern dose of undulating and reflective effects. There's also a day 
 and night cycle and some weather effects thrown in for good measure. Yet, what's most surprising 
 are the relatively low system requirements, since the game ran nicely at 800x600 on a 1GHz Pentium 
 III with a GeForce4 Ti card, which is still quite a bit above the 400MHz processor listed as the 
 minimum requirement.  

  The sacrifice for supporting such a range of systems does seem to be that towns are represented 
 as fairly sparse groupings of houses, commercial buildings, and businesses. The largest modern 
 cities feature just a couple of dozen structures. However, considering the game's scope, this and 
 other quibbles about visual realism don't ever get in the way of the feeling that you're running 
 a powerful rail company. Though there's an overlay or two that's hard to read at first, the overall 
 presentation is refined, and the flavorful voice-overs and cinematics definitely help establish 
 the historical setting. At the same time, the nostalgic tone fits the early scenarios better than 
 those set during recent or future years. On a related note, the musical score is narrowly focused 
 on American folk traditions, with plenty of harmonica, fiddle, and banjo tunes to add old-time 
 railroading atmosphere. The game includes 90 minutes of music in MP3 format, but you might not 
 notice there's that much, since it's all of similar style.  

          The impressive 3D engine scales to run on many PCs and features some nice visual effects. 
     

  Railroad Tycoon II benefited from a fan base that produced plenty of downloadable scenarios, and 
 we can expect similar things from the new game, which has editing tools built in. Between this 
 and the fact that there are four levels of difficulty that tweak the economy for or against you, 
 the game should have plenty of longevity. That's not even considering the fact that the multiplayer 
 component features a built-in game browser, which makes it easy enough to find players online. 
 Take note that the multiplayer mode makes some conspicuous changes to the game, removing the very 
 useful undo button and the bulldozer tool, presumably to avoid competitive exploits. Not only does 
 this mean that games can be filled with odd track configurations from various players' track-laying 
 attempts, but it can seriously aggravate any mistakes, lag, or odd track tool behaviors.  

  Never has there been a tycoon game this visually attractive or effectively designed to minimize 
 micromanagement. Railroad Tycoon III is surprisingly easy to learn for a game of its scope, and 
 it has something for anyone with a fondness for trains or for making loads of money -- which means 
 just about everyone.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (21 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: brhsoccer14
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 22, 2008 10:26 am PT
Review:  Although a 2D game and slighted on the graphics, Railroad Tycoon 3 is an amazing game for the business 
 strategist. It will keep you tied up for hours connecting cities and making sure the right goods 
 are sent to the right places racking up profits for your industries. I think the game would have 
 done better with more detail or even expanding the idea and making it a total transport tycoon 
 rather than just train. 
  There are a few minor errors that I don't remember now, but do recall telling myself that needed 
 to be fixed while playing it. Overall, though, the game is fun and will keep you entertained for 
 hours.
  
  After a while, though, the game does start to wear. After the initial 25-30 years, the game seems 
 like it's over and you just let your empire go without giving it the careful detail you had been 
 when you only had a few stations. Managing all of the stations after a couple of decades grows 
 tiresome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrLW
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 21, 2008 11:26 am PT
Review:  Railroad Tycoon 3 is an amazing management game. The campaign mode is the main focus of the game. 
 There is even a 'futuristic' option in the campaign mode.
  
  The simplest of ideas work well here; you receive a briefing on how to achieve a gold, silver or 
 bronze medal and then it's up to you to become a railroad tycoon!
  
  As soon as you have overcome the learning curve (recommended you take the tutorial) it's easy. 
 The stock market is also involved but it's not essential that you understand this.
  
  This game isn't just for train enthusiasts either. Anyone who enjoys management games will love 
 this! You can also control various other businesses including steel mills, taverns, farms e. t. c. 
 You get the picture. This, is of course after you have named your company and chosen a logo.
  
  Some campaigns see you purchasing access rights for different states (I tried to buy the whole 
 of Germany) , other see you going head to head with other tycoons.
  
  The graphics are OK but gameplay is important and it definitely delivers on this. The replay value 
 is brilliant as well, with a multiplayer mode and different medals to achieve. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Magic_Steven
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 8, 2007 3:32 pm PT
Review:  It's the longevity that says it all. I keep coming back for more.
  
  It may be a game for simple minds who like playing with train sets but you can step it up by playing 
 with stocks as well. Now we are into Wall Street simple. It does not get simpler than lard brains 
 who lose everyone's pension after a hard night out. Except, here you can do it without real world 
 consequences.
  
  I have just reinstalled RT3 on a new computer and lost all my saved games. I could not care less. 
 I will just have to do it all over again and waste even more of my life playing this wonderful 
 game.
  
  Graphics and sound on RT3 are now way out of date but does it matter? No.
  
  I have top of the range graphics and sound cards and even a physx card. This game takes advantage 
 of none of their features. Do I care? No.
  
  Playability is what does and always will matter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryudo2053
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 24, 2007 8:51 am PT
Review:  I've had the game for I think maybe a month or two - it's a pretty fun game.
  
  The beauty of the game is that it's easy for anyone to learn how to play, but if you want to go 
 deeper in how the game's economy works and make a lot of money using industries, you can do that 
 too.
  
  Basically, it's accessible enough for your grandmother, but it is complex and deep enough for your 
 brother the engineer, if you choose to strategize more complexly.
  
  The games graphics are nice - you see your trains and railroads on a map - the campaign mode is 
 basically where the game is at - you have certain goals you have to meet to beat that scenario 
 - beat the easiest goals, you get a bronze, next hardest, silver, and hardest, gold. The best part 
 of the game is that it feels like you are just playing against yourself, for the most part.
  
  You actually do have to play against other tycoons who start their own railroads in addition 
 to yours, but if you play on the default difficulty - the tycoons are horrible at managing their 
 companies, and usually those companies go bankrupt.
  
  Ultimately, you are competing against yourself in finding the best way to complete these goals.
 
  
  What is the best train route to get certain goods from a certain town to another town to make the 
 most money? Anyways, if you but the game, there is a tutorial, and the manual that comes with the 
 game explains all the features of the game very well, in easy terms to understand.
  
  If you can find it, and want a tycoon game, railroad tycoon 3 is probably the best tycoon game 
 ever to come out.
  
  If you're wondering, I'm sure it's better than that new Sid Meier game, Railroads.
  
  So go 
 get a copy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LoJo10
Rating: 8.1
Date: Apr 11, 2007 9:50 am PT
Review:  I've had the game for I think maybe a year or two - it's a pretty fun game.
  
  The beauty of the game is that it's easy for anyone to learn how to play, but if you want to go 
 deeper in how the game's economy works and make a lot of money using industries, you can do that 
 too.
  
  Basically, it's accessible enough for your grandmother, but it is complex and deep enough for your 
 brother the engineer, if you choose to strategize more complexly.
  
  The games graphics are nice - you see your trains and railroads on a map - the campaign mode is 
 basically where the game is at - you have certain goals you have to meet to beat that scenario 
 - beat the easiest goals, you get a bronze, next hardest, silver, and hardest, gold. The best part 
 of the game is that it feels like you are just playing against yourself, for the most part.
  
  You actually do have to play against other tycoons who start their own railroads in addition 
 to yours, but if you play on the default difficulty - the tycoons are horrible at managing their 
 companies, and usually those companies go bankrupt.
  
  Ultimately, you are competing against yourself in finding the best way to complete these goals.
 
  
  What is the best train route to get certain goods from a certain town to another town to make the 
 most money? Anyways, if you but the game, there is a tutorial, and the manual that comes with the 
 game explains all the features of the game very well, in easy terms to understand.
  
  If you can find it, and want a tycoon game, railroad tycoon 3 is probably the best tycoon game 
 ever to come out.
  
  If you're wondering, I'm sure it's better than that new Sid Meier game, Railroads.
  
  So go 
 get a copy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thk123
Rating: 7.7
Date: Mar 21, 2007 10:38 am PT
Review:  Basically you are a tycoon out to make money. There are lots of different scenarios to play each 
 with 3 levels of passing. You play from the begging of America right up 2100 where there are trains 
 that are yet to be invented that travel 200+ mile's an hour. The game has unlimited complexity 
 allowing you to delve into the stock market. Risking everything by buying on the margin, or just 
 simply lay track and build a train and make a bit of money.
  
  The graphics are said to be amazing, I think that is because compared to the last one they are 
 amazing. Having said this the sunsets are quite mesmerizing and are nice to watch. It also does 
 weather effects particular well, but water is a let down and it is only because of the reflection 
 and the waves can you actually tell that is water. Some times when laying tracks it does something 
 impossible, like the track going up at about 80 degrees and then goes into a tunnel 30cm from the 
 top, still climbing! Apart from these minor flaws the graphics aren't stunning but they aren't 
 bad, with of course complete 360 control over the camera.
  
  The story in the campaign is based on real events that would really have involved train tycoons. 
 The problem is that the story's aren't consecutive. It might be 1890 at the end of one scenario 
 and then 1870 at the start of the next, I think this shows that the story is not an important part 
 to this game.
  
  Gameplay. Gameplay is great. The game can be as complicated or as simple as you like. First of 
 all you set up a company, then you connect two cites and run a train between them. You have to 
 choose which would be two good cities. From there you go about completing what ever task is in 
 hand. Sometimes there will be two cities you have to connect or sometimes just make lots of money. 
 One of this missions you have to pull 50 loads of oil. The mission variety is good and there are 
 lots of them too. There is also a mode called sandbox mode where you have infinite money and no 
 opponents, it is basically for messing about. I use it to build MASSIVE suspension bridges from 
 Russia to Scotland and then running the fastest train back and forth. The one thing game play lacks 
 is a mode where you still have money to worry about but no goals. You can create this effect with 
 the scenario editor.
  
  The scenario editor comes in two parts. One is called map builder where you just drag a rectangle 
 over a map of the world and it creates a 'height map' and you can open these up in the other editor 
 to make them proper maps. The problem is it takes way to long. There are so many cities to first 
 of all name and then build all the different types of building's, from houses and churches to grocery 
 stores and super markets. And as if that wasn't enough you have to define the value of every product 
 in every city and or area (also user defined) . So although this gives the user a great amount of 
 control it does mean that if you want to whisk up a quick scenario you can't. Another flaw with 
 it is to place buildings you have to start up a company. Which is strange because its an editor 
 not a crazy scenario. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slayer_Sam
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 4, 2006 11:22 am PT
Review:  , so far for the train sounds, time to get to the real deal. The idea of the game is still the 
 same as in the last edition. You take on the role of a railroad tycoon and have to bring your company 
 to the top. This you can do by making as much money as possible and compete with the others to 
 death. Something which is immediately noticed when launching the game is the magnificent intro 
 movie (very impressive and funny when watching it for the first time) which shows the power of 
 the 3D engine. Ill go deeper in on this later on.
  
  Lets first take a look at the single player part. Here you can choose between playing a Sandbox 
 game or campaigns. In the first you dont have any money, everything is for free and theres no 
 competition. Can life be any sweeter ? You can lay tracks, choose trains and enjoy your building. 
 By clicking an option that gives you all possible trains, you get access to about 48 of them which 
 is more than enough, I think. Each one has its own characteristics which you have to take into 
 account; pulling speed, steam, diesel or electricity,  an important factor is for instance the 
 appeal at the general public; if the public can choose between an ugly train on a direct line or 
 a beautiful one which takes a small detour, you can bet theyll choose the latter. Another new thing 
 in Railroad Tycoon 3 (or should I say improvement) is the way how the cargo is being dealt with. 
 While in the previous game you had to point where everything needed to be loaded, the computer 
 will arrange that for you now although you can still choose to do it yourself. A big improvement 
 if you ask me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kezsim
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 21, 2006 9:06 pm PT
Review:  Hands down one of the best games i have ever had the pleasure to play. the graphics where kind 
 of cheesy, but every thing was perfectly to scale and in good proportion to the buildings, unlike 
 Sid Meiers Railroads (worst game ever) , where giant trains fly by Microscopic city's, and the trains 
 require no coal or water and run on magic. this game was just about perfect, and you could take 
 the MP3's on your player to listen to. POP TOP has done wonders, in my opinion RT2 was awful, but 
 they cleaned up their act for RT3. Unfortunately, the EVIL Sid Meier destroyed the series with 
 confusing visuals and pointless game play. Even though he started it, he doesn't have the right 
 to take it away. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shegevara
Rating: 8.1
Date: Nov 5, 2006 10:47 am PT
Review:  Well, I was a bit disappointed whenn i played it. It's sure better than the second, but i expected 
 just a bit more than it has. Thought it's an awesome game. Firstly i want to mention I really enjoyed 
 the game, but the reviews from now on are not just from my point of view, but from more global 
 view.
  
  Game has a nice interface. And good gameplay along with graphics and the spirit of gaming.
  It's 
 excellent for rainy days, to play again those awesome games. It's a big satisfaction to watch how 
 cities grow bigger and are more important when you add them to your railroad system. Gameplay is 
 really good. Laying tracks is anything but annoying. It is very easy. New trains are good too. 
 And very tactical AI tycooners. Graphics are great for the tycoon. Cycling day/night, having a 
 good/bad weather is a nice addon. It surprised me with it's above average water reflections. Anti 
 aliasing is probably good too. Talking about that game. It can run on very low end computers but 
 it's still good for med-low computers even within like ati AIW 9800/GF6200. This game is really 
 excellent, and if you like tycoons, i would strongly recommend this game to you especially if you 
 got a bit old computer not a first class. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matthewlux
Rating: 8.4
Date: Aug 16, 2006 7:10 pm PT
Review:  This is an interesting game because it provides lots of fun with the challanges of running a railroad 
 company. The graphics are mostly good, the sound is ok, and the gameplay is ok. The bad thing is 
 that the sounds might get repetitive and sometimes some tech problems start up with this game and 
 it closes down so you have to start all over again, and sometimes there will be a bad graphics 
 moment which ruins the good graphics engine, the 3rd thing is you will sometimes be left waiting 
 for more cash or track to come in so you can keep buliding your railway and this can often be boring. 
 My advice would be to buy this game if you like controling things. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: swmackin
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jan 28, 2006 8:50 am PT
Review:  This was a game I really looked forward to getting. Railroad Tycoon 2 is one of my all time favorites. 
 All the new features are amazing. Especially the much more realistic way cargo is hauled. The letdown 
 is with the missions. They just are not as good as Railroad Tycoon 2. And some of them take forever. 
 I think the developers realised the weakness of the missions in the version which is why the released 
 the expantion pack for free download.
  
  My fear with this game was that all the good ideas were used up in Railroad Tycoon 2. And it appears 
 they were. Some of the missions are similar to a mission in RRT2. There is one mission that is 
 almost identical. 
  
  The most pleasent suprise for me was that there is a scenario for southern ontario and surrounding 
 area. As that is where I live. 
  
  On the Orient Express mission make sure to fulfill the requests made by the monks. First you have 
 to connect to Zagreb. Then you need to find a way to get meat to Chisneau in the east. Once you 
 do that a locomotive that looks like an Orca Whale becomes available. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NerYer
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 18, 2006 9:47 am PT
Review:  build an economic empire, although the AI is a little lacking it is still fun having to deal with 
 the stock market. Your company is affected by the overall economy so when there's a depression 
 or an economic boom your profits will reflect what is going on which adds more elements to the 
 game as a whole. Going through time, getting newer train models and having to buy new trains as 
 they age also makes the game feel more real. Also there is your own profits to deal with, not just 
 your company. You get paid from the company, and you can buy or sell stocks of any of the companies, 
 even the computers. If you get rich enough you can even buy out the computer and take them over. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: madmenno
Rating: 8.1
Date: Dec 18, 2005 1:07 pm PT
Review:  Building railroads from east to west US, trough the alps or even in the future this game offers 
 it all. It tells you a lot of historical facts involving the development of railroads. Hire managers 
 that made a big deal in the past. Buy stocks from your opponents and buy factory's and supply them 
 to make a cappital. 
  
  It's not that mutch different from RT: 2. It's made a bit easyer though some missions realy took 
 some effort to achief the gold reward. Also it's 3D witch makes a completely different feeling. 
 But there isn't mutch more and that makes it kinda dissapointing.
  
  Still for the die hard fans like me, this game is solid and keeps you bussy for a long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: foytlin01_basic
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 24, 2005 6:14 pm PT
Review:  Nice game - great replay ability - nice detail with graphics ... economics end can be tricky you 
 can win the game but lose your company to an shady AI competitor. The AI players don't expand much, 
 just wait to see your move then buy up your company as you start to outperform them. Pretty similar 
 to real entrepreneurs. Overall a great game - would be excellent if it wasn't for the technical 
 issues. The game continues to crash to desktop every so often, even with the patches & expansion. 
 I have a higher end machine & compatible graphics card, so the problem was in the programming. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: premier2k
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 14, 2005 8:37 am PT
Review:  Having not played RT2 but hearing good feedback, I thought I'd give this game a go, I can honestly 
 say I was pleased with the results! No.... Thats no right.... I was astounded by the results!
 
  
  RT3 is very easy to pick up and play, I started off slowly, I put together a couple of stations 
 and some track and then bought my first train. After a few minutes of working out how the cargoes 
 worked, I had my first train put together and ready to haul.
  After a few minutes more, with my train still at the station I figured out that I had the configuration 
 all wrong, so I went back into it and re-adjusted it. At this point I was hooked! 
  When you first play it you'll be overwhelmed by the amount of work involved in ferrying cargo from 
 one place to another, but after 30 minutes or so you'll understand the concept.
  After my first train left the station and travelled to its destination I made some money on the 
 transport and proceeded to connect a 3rd city and then a fourth and so on....
  It was only after I had connect 19 stations and had ammased a 20 million fortune I realised I 
 had been playing for almost 6 hours! Addicted? I should say so!
  Its hard to find flaws in the game, I would say that trying to find supplies of cargo is not easy, 
 it can get quite complicated. But that said you'll soon start to remember where each one is on 
 the map, that is until you start the game again and find they've all moved around.
  There are only a couple of real downsides to the game, one of which is the music, if you like to 
 listen to music I suggest you turn the in-game music off and switch on windows media player! It 
 does tend to get a bit repetative, unless of course you get so involved in it that you dont hear 
 it!
  The upside however is the sound of the trains, each one is unique, I actually spent one mission 
 just zoomed right into the trains watching them ferry around cargo!
  
  Secondly the game is too easy, the computer AI could be so much more effective in bringing down 
 your company and boosting his own, but they tend to stick to two cities and dont move form that 
 until much time has past. Its very easy to buy them out.
  
  This brings me to the stock market, this is not something which is common to games, at least not 
 in this much detail. Its possible to make money for yourself and for your company using the stock 
 screen, you can buy players out of the game and increase your own standing. However, be very careful 
 because just as the case in the real world, if you buy too much stock on margin and then your company 
 doesnt make much money and the share price drops then you find yourself bankrupt and out of the 
 game! After 5 hours this can be annoying! But thats through no fault of the game its your own fault! 
 I have done this many times! But then thats part and parcel of the fun!!
  
  The graphics are good, nothing groundbreaking but detailed enough to know what certain things are. 
 I can't see any need for ultra realistic trees!? Although possibly more detail on the trains would 
 have been nice.
  
  There's so much I want to say about this game! Just buy it and see! Its definately worth every 
 penny!
  
  All in all, if you like to be immersed into a game so much that you forget there is an outside 
 world then buy this game!! You will not be disappointed!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheShelobMan
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 16, 2005 10:29 pm PT
Review:  Railroad Tycoon 3 is a game that can actually qualify as one of the best tycoon games I have ever 
 played. It is both fun and challenging and a game I am just not able to put down. That claim is 
 really one that I rarely use about any games. 
  
  Obviously the best part of this game for me is the gameplay. I really like the stock market part 
 of the game that adds realism to the game's economic aspect. One thing about the gameplay is how 
 the smallest mistake or misinformation can influence the outcome of the whole scenario. I mean 
 even something that I thought I was going to get away with, really messed me up and made me say 
 "Man, I shouldn't have done that!!!". Now that is really somehing that is rare. In fact you'd have 
 to be playing SimCity 4 to get this type of detail in gameplay. I like the fact that products ship 
 themselves on land. It affects the player both negatively and positively. Another thing I like 
 is how over time things stop shipping to different places simply because of the advancement in 
 technology. In some scenarios that is a key turning point in the game. The selection of trains 
 is obviously also an important aspect and the reliability, the ability to climb mountains, and 
 the speed should all facto rin the way you pick a train. The most important thing is the annual 
 maintenance cost - that is what can make or break you. Heck, even the location of your tracks can 
 be the difference between a win or a loss. The gameplay is all in all really fun. 
  
  Of course the accesibility is also important and Railroad Tycoon 3's presentation is flawless. 
 The menus are easy to use and the interface, while a little big, does not require a learning curve. 
 The game modes are adequate, but the sandbox mode is simply not as satisfying as the campaign and 
 the scenarios. The campaign is long and it takes you from the first railroad to the future of underwater 
 tunnels and supersonic trains. The scenarios span almost all parts of the world and are really 
 different o that keeps the game from getting boring. 
  
  The graphics in the game are very good althogh I would have liked more different types of buildings, 
 instead of the same farms and churches everywhere. We all know buildings in the orient are different 
 from the nes in Chicago. Other than that though, sometimes I am amazed by the quality of the graphics, 
 especially the water texture. Also I like the details in the buildings, like the little merry-go-round 
 in the school, or the wood going through the grinder in the lumber mill. 
  
  The sound in the game is unbelievable. I was playing a scenario in Africa and when I put my camera 
 in or around the jungle I could hear monkeys and parrots and other jungle sounds - something that 
 is absent from other parts in the game. Also the buildings have different sounds, like the school 
 has kids giggling and playing outside, and factories have sounds of different machinery. The trains 
 sound awesome with each sounding diferently from the last. The music in the game gets repetitive 
 though, but it goes nicely with the theme of the game.
  
  I guarantee anyone who is planning to buy this a long time of getting trains from one point to 
 another. The game is simply very replayable and everytime you play a scenario you have to use a 
 different strategy from the last time, since the location of the goods varies with each reload 
 of a scenario. All in all this game will hold you for a couple of months at the least.
  
  I really enjoy playing this game and I will continue to play scenarios that I download from the 
 internet fansites. i strongly recoomend this game to anyone looking for a tycoon gam that is true 
 to the word tycoon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dryden555
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 17, 2004 10:10 pm PT
Review:  The really lame computer oppenents are a pretty big fault in the game. Previous versions had better 
 opponent AI that would try to buy you out or corner a market you needed. Or place rails on land 
 that you needed. 
  
  Other than the lack of good AI, this version has a lot going for it. The new automatic cargo function 
 makes the game go by quickly and you can always manually adjust the cargo if you want. 
  
  The 3D world is nice-looking. The 3D overhead maps are annoying however: you can't easily get info 
 about supply and demand without a lot of clicking. And it is even more obscure how to get info 
 about what goods a train has carried and how profitable those goods were the previous year. 
  
  But the only big fault is the lack of difficulty. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tek__
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 7, 2003 4:39 am PT
Review:  Railroad Tycoon 3 is one of those games you start playing and you have little interest in the subject 
 matter, then as time goes on you fall in love with it, Much like WW2 games sparked my interest 
 in WW2 movies and history, and Tiger Woods PGA Tour 2004 got me watching golf, Railroad Tycoon 
 3 sparked my interest in trains.
  
  The game itself is more of a economic game based on railroads than a railroad game however, and 
 it does this great, it takes quite a bit of game-play before you can fully understand it, but once 
 you do, you realize, sure you can just make a bunch of trains, and not worry about industry buildings, 
 but once you find out that you can double - or even triple your income by using them, you'll really 
 start to appreciate the economic system.
  
  An example: you buy a logging camp in the hills, transport the logs to a lumber yard, and then 
 transport the lumber to a furniture shop, you can then ship the furniture to the city with the 
 highest demand, the higher the demand at a city, naturally the more money you make, there are many 
 more examples, maybe too many to list even.
  
  The Graphics look great, Water reflects land, bridges, clouds, and trains, the train textures are 
 sharp, the lush forests add to the atmosphere, buildings and trains have realistic shadows. The 
 sound is great as well, the trains sound realistic, and the music has a folk sound, which adds 
 to the game too.
  
  There are, however some problems with track laying, quite a few really, laying tracks in mountains 
 is often troublesome, the undo button however really helps make it easier.
  
  Overall this game is great, minor problems aside, you should not miss it if you are a fan of trains, 
 or deep strategy games.
  
  
  -Daniel 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tekkor
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 1, 2003 7:25 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game. I never played the orginal 2 versions in the series but now I wish I did. 
 Im a bit older now then back when the first ones came out and have a bit more appreciation for 
 strategy games then I did back then. Simply put this game is very well done. It doesnt even matter 
 if you dont have a ton of interest in the subject matter of trains. If your interested in a well 
 done and fun tycoon game this is it.
  
  The graphics are excellent and to be honest I gave it 10 because I really cant think of anything 
 that could be much better. Im running on a Radeon 9800 (non pro) and the game is simply stunning 
 when you turn on the in game AA and pump the rez up to like 1200 or so. Also the engine itself 
 is quite incredible. You can zoom out to a view from practically space and then straight down to 
 the ground 5 foot from a train and the engine handles it smoothly and fast as lightening. Amazing.
 
  
  The sound is also top notch. The only complaint I would have is while the music is good i would 
 have liked a bit more variation in the style of it. It just seems like one long song even though 
 I know its 90 minutes or so worth of music.
  
  The most amazing thing about the game though is the gameplay. It is one of those rare games that 
 is fun regardless of your proficiency level. If your a newb strategy gamer you can do good. Just 
 lay track, buy trains and you can do pretty good starting out. Then as you get more comfortable 
 you can fiddle with the industry side buying businesses up and trying to build some as well. As 
 you get more comfortable mess with the stock market and learn how to squeeze out even more profit. 
 Then if you continue to master the game learn how to further increase your industry profits with 
 shipping things to the right areas to combo up and create more unique industries and really see 
 profits soar.
  
  Again.... its a game that regardless of your skill level with games like this you will like it and 
 have fun. I will say that you will have a bit of learning curve in the beginning if you have never 
 played these kinds of games and may even be wondering about the game as I was for the first 3-4 
 hours or so that you play it. But as you start figuring things out and see how things work the 
 game just continues to reward you for putting in the effort.
  
  This is a great game and if you even have a passing interest in this style of game you should give 
 it a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: asdfpoiu
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 1, 2003 8:45 am PT
Review:  This game reminds me of why I like the strategy/sim genre in the first place. The graphics are 
 awesome, the sound spot-on, and the sheer enjoyment of setting up a transportation network the 
 like of which the world had never seen is refreshing. The object is to create something rather 
 than to destroy something else, and the challenge is to get goods to market. The game (fortunately) 
 takes care of the minor details, leaving you free to handle the big picture from the standpoint 
 of the big tycoons and entrepreneurs. This makes it relatively easy to look at issues like where 
 to lay tracks and which engines to purchase. Even a little grade can make a big dent in profits 
 by slowing down trains or preventing smaller engines from hauling larger loads, so being able to 
 concentrate on this can make all the difference on how well your nacent rairoad does.
  Overall, if you are a fan of strategy games or non-twitch sim games, this is a must-have game. 
 If you are a fan of classic steam-powered railroads, this is a no-brainer muct-have. If you are 
 a fan of 19th century American history this is a must-have. If you think that most modern games 
 are too violent, this is an excellent alternative. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aaronj0072
Rating: 7.8
Date: Oct 30, 2003 7:12 pm PT
Review:  For anyone who has never played either of the previous versions or Railroad Tycoon, this in not 
 one to miss. However, for those of you that have, this is mostly a graphically updated version 
 of RT 2. Previous players will have to get used to the 3D presentation, which after playing 1 and 
 2 for over a dozen years will take time. To its credit, the animation is excellent and there are 
 new maps. I do wish, however, that the 'station resource boxes' of earlier versions were available. 
 It's not quite as easy in RT 3 to keep track of what stations are piling up with goods and what 
 trains are either under or over worked. Resources are also a bit harder to locate in the heavy 
 graphics. A good game, but I think some of the features that made the first two so playable got 
 left behind in favor of 'glitz'. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
