-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Rails Across America
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/railsacrossamerica/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 11, 2001
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.6
Critic Score: 8.0, 9 Review (s)
User Score: 7.5, 35 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Strategy First
Developer: Flying Lab Soft.
Genre: Strategy
Date:     Sep 18, 2001
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
It's a game whose real strengths are always in competition with its flaws. Happily for fans of hard-core 
 strategy games, the strengths usually win out. 

 If you've ever wanted to have a continent at your fingertips and under your thumb, now's your chance. 
 Flying Lab Software's real-time strategy game, Rails Across America, lets you engage in empire 
 building on a grand scale, covering most of North America from the years 1830 to 2020. You'll tackle 
 historical scenarios or engage in customizable play against challenging computer opponents modeled 
 after historical rail barons. You can also match wits with other humans online. While admittedly 
 inspired by the hit Railroad Tycoon series, Rails Across America takes a broader approach to rail 
 empire building and offers some novel, entertaining features. At the same time, it's a game that 
 can't quite decide whether it wants to play like a fast-paced family board game or like a detailed 
 simulation. It's a game whose real strengths are always in competition with its flaws. Happily 
 for fans of hard-core strategy games, the strengths usually win out.           The object is to 
 build the most prestigious North American rail empire.    

 Rails Across America ("Rails" for short) features a couple of core design elements that set it apart 
 from other railroading or empire-building games. Unlike the extremely detailed focus on individual 
 tracks or trains that you find in the Railroad Tycoon series or Microsoft's Train Simulator, Rails 
 looks at the grand scheme. You'll build vast rail networks running from the Gulf of Mexico to Canada 
 or from New England to California. There's the potential for hundreds of trains to ply dozens of 
 tracks. Rails also distinguishes itself by making prestige the key to victory instead of money. 
 You earn prestige by building an imposing transcontinental railroad, gaining supremacy in one region, 
 hauling the most freight, and so on. Ultimately, though, prestige is like a commodity that's most 
 often bought indirectly with money.   

  To gain funds, and thereby prestige, you'll need to build tracks. Every city on the game map has 
 some amount of passengers or goods just waiting to be hauled. Your initial goal is to construct 
 lines between the cities that will generate the most traffic and income for your burgeoning empire. 
 At the same time, you'll also choose your lines geographically by building to cities with limited 
 rail access. These cities then work as choke points that can cut competitors out of vital areas. 
 Rails includes a handy suggestion feature that advises you where to build next if you're unsure. 
   

  Once your workmen finish building a new line, you'll need to make it as efficient as possible by 
 constantly balancing the number of engines, maintenance costs, track improvements like better signage, 
 and so on. Doing this usually entails repeatedly and laboriously scrolling through a list of all 
 your tracks and incessantly clicking on endless rows of little lights. To minimize this micromanagement, 
 you can hire managers for each track to handle most of the decision making for you. However, a 
 single manager can cost you $10,000 a month, even way back in 1830, which seems an outrageously 
 high salary for those days.   

  In addition to lots and lots of mouse clicking, track maintenance poses some other problems and 
 oddities. You can add or remove extra tracks or alter signage on a particular line instantly whenever 
 you want. Those are labor- and time-intensive tasks in the real world that aren't undertaken lightly. 
 Also, it's not immediately obvious how much a track is earning each month, and therefore how much 
 it's worth to you.   

  Ironically, despite all the track tweaking, Rails is really much more about economic and geographical 
 strategy than about trains themselves. The iron horse is merely a means to a financial end. With 
 some work and imagination, Rails Across America could probably just as easily have become an outer-space 
 4X game, with space stations instead of cities, interstellar trade routes instead of railroads, 
 and credits instead of dollars. In Rails, you concentrate very little on the engines (other than 
 occasionally upgrading them for newer models) or anything a typical rail fan might be interested 
 in, but you do concentrate intensively on the bottom line. This is a game with a seven-page annual-report 
 feature, after all.           The game's AI is modeled after historical railroad moguls.    

 While you certainly don't need to be a banker or CPA to play the game, it helps to understand 
 the basics of loans, including interest payments and refinancing. If you default on your loans, 
 you'll be thrust into bankruptcy. Unless you've decided to play a session where bankruptcy knocks 
 you out of the game, going broke isn't actually all that bad. You escape your creditors and temporarily 
 benefit from reduced maintenance costs, meaning you can start raking in lots of money easily. Then 
 again, you lose vital prestige points, can't continue any building projects, and get a lousy credit 
 rating, which the game's banks don't smile on. Still, borrowing obscene amounts of money -- loans 
 of $100 million aren't uncommon -- and then going bankrupt seems to be a powerful, if perhaps unrealistic, 
 strategy for building up your empire early on. Without amassing trainloads of cash in a hurry, 
 you likely won't be able to complete the big, prestige-rich transcontinental lines before your 
 rivals, for instance. Getting certain tracks laid quickly can outweigh any harm from temporary 
 bankruptcy after they're laid.   

  Even when you can't get loans because of a lousy credit rating, you can always hurt the other guy. 
 One of the most entertaining weapons for success in Rails is influence peddling. You're regularly 
 dealt random influence cards that work somewhat analogously to a standard card game: Cards come 
 in different suits, like labor or publicity, and have different values. As you're dealt new cards, 
 they appear briefly on the main screen while you manage your empire -- too briefly, in fact, to see 
 what they say when you're busy trying to take in all the other information on hand. Fortunately, 
 there's a separate screen that shows all your cards side by side.    

 At the risk of a scandalous backfire, you can use your cards to play all kinds of devious dirty 
 tricks on competitors or unsuspecting allies with whom you've temporarily united. If you decide 
 to perform an "influence attack," and it turns out that you hold a better hand of cards than a 
 competitor, you can wreak havoc on his or her operation. Muckraking journalists might report embarrassing 
 news about your rival, lowering his or her prestige points. Or, you can buy off labor unions, causing 
 a strike on your competitor's rail lines. A stock raid lets you grab millions of dollars from their 
 coffers. Through graft, you can buy extra influence cards, and you can sell them too, with each 
 one providing hundreds of thousands of dollars but leaving you exposed if someone tries to attack 
 you.           Influence attacks keep the gameplay varied and tense.    

 For a complex game with so many facets to consider, Rails doesn't do a particularly good job of 
 explaining things clearly and concisely. The manual discusses topics like cities, politics, and 
 so forth separately and fairly clearly. Still, it would have been more helpful to begin with a 
 better general discussion of the overall goals and basic game mechanics and then lead you through 
 the different steps and considerations needed to reach those goals. Instead, you pretty much have 
 to piece everything together on your own. Amazingly for a game that focuses on prestige, there's 
 no substantial discussion in the manual of how you garner it in the game. You'll only find those 
 details by hitting the "goals" button on the main game screen. Rails doesn't feature a tutorial 
 mission, either. Instead, the manual walks you through the beginnings of a standard game, but with 
 only enough detail to acquaint you with the very basics. Most strategy games involve an extended 
 period of discovery on your part, but that should deal primarily with learning the nuances of the 
 strategies themselves, not the game mechanics. At least Rails features very extensive and useful 
 pop-up tooltips to explain features.   

  The best strategy games mask their sophistication and depth behind a simple and unobtrusive interface. 
 It seems rather the reverse with Rails. Your first impression will likely be that of drowning in 
 a sea of charts, indicators, and readouts, though with time they become manageable. Rails includes 
 numerous different screens that need to be accessed throughout the game, and while some of the 
 most important data is always present on a panel to the right of the game map, you'll still need 
 to jump between lots of screens.   

  There are many minor interface weaknesses too. You can't load game sessions from the screen you 
 save them on. When setting up a new customized game session, you need to scroll through huge lists 
 of cities and dates using little arrow buttons. Drop-down lists with scroll bars would have been 
 much more convenient. Once in a game session, there are oddities like the seemingly superfluous 
 "apply" button for track changes. You can just make the changes without ever clicking it, and they'll 
 take effect. Auctions can proceed far too quickly for you to even read everything on the auction 
 screen. That's real-time gaming carried to an uncomfortable extreme. A slower pace for that portion 
 of the game would be helpful.   

  At least the various interface screens tend to look reasonably attractive, with wood-grain backgrounds 
 behind dialogue boxes reminiscent of old-time promissory notes or stock certificates. The main 
 map window, with its minute animated trains, provides extremely little of interest to look at, 
 though. The opening splash screens and engine encyclopedia feature gorgeous photos of classic trains, 
 but during an actual game session, you never see any trains or scenery up close and in detail. 
 Most of the time you'll play with the map zoomed out to where tracks are just boring colored lines 
 squiggling across the map. Even abstract strategy games deserve attractive and entertaining visuals, 
 especially when the immensely colorful source material offers so much to work with. When looking 
 at the detailed data on a particular track, it would have added a lot to the experience if a small 
 photo or painting of an appropriate railroading scene from the region had been shown. Sound effects 
 are as pedestrian as the graphics and include a few predictable train whistles and so forth. The 
 music is largely limited to bland, repetitive banjo music.           Rails Across America can be 
 particularly fun as a multiplayer game.    

 Despite its well-paced gameplay, tense competition, very strong computer opponent, and clever influence 
 attacks, you might find Rails hard to relate to and enjoy fully. Whether you're playing a session 
 set in 1830 or 1930, gameplay feels roughly the same, despite the enormous differences in real-world 
 train equipment and historical conditions. You likely won't feel much of a personal stake in your 
 railroad empire since, despite all the data involved, it tends to feel so abstract. The game focuses 
 so much on rapid, unrestrained expansion that you never feel any real ties to what you've already 
 built. There's little to carefully nourish and tend to, meaning there's little to become attached 
 to. Along the same lines, there's not much that visually sets your railroad empire apart from those 
 of your competitors. Even Monopoly includes unique tokens to represent each player and offer a 
 little insight into their character. For that matter, there are no real personalities or characters 
 to relate to in the game, despite the artificial intelligence being modeled after real rail barons. 
 Seeing little portraits of your opponents pop up when they offer the occasional taunt or compliment 
 would have made competition more personal. As it stands, their comments rush by in a scrolling 
 message box at the bottom of the screen where they're easy to overlook.   

  Rails Across America's many weaknesses certainly don't totally dampen the fun of racing to see 
 who can outbuild the competition. The devious influence attacks and the focus on prestige, even 
 if not always implemented smoothly, offer really interesting gameplay situations. Dramatic come-from-behind 
 victories are common, and someone losing $16 million per month or sitting $740 million dollars 
 in debt can still win the game. It may not be realistic, but it makes for some hard-fought contests 
 to rule the rails across America.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (0 Reviews)
-------------------------------------------------
