-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Railroad Tycoon II
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/railroadtycoon2/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec  4, 1998
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 9.1
Critic Score: 8.4, 21 Review (s)
User Score: 8.6, 692 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Gathering
Developer: PopTop Software
Genre: Business Strategy
Date:     Oct 31, 1998 &raquo;  
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
With Railroad Tycoon II, all those dreams of childhood can be realized at last. 

 In an industry now thriving on "me too" games, it defies belief that there have been so few previous 
 entries in the "build and manage" genre started by the original Railroad Tycoon. At least half 
 of these have come from Maxis.   

 Railroad Tycoon II by PopTop Software puts you in charge of a vast railroad empire in the persona 
 of one of the legendary tycoons or government figures of the day. The train and station limits 
 from Railroad Tycoon are gone. You can build stations and buy trains to your heart's content without 
 bumping into an artificial limit. To the best of my knowledge, no one has exceeded the train/station 
 limit, if there is one, relieving one of the most frustrating features of the original Railroad 
 Tycoon when playing on large maps.  

 There is an amazing number of maps. There are 12 stand-alone maps plus over a dozen different maps 
 in the campaign scenarios. Along with multiple maps of North America and Europe are maps of China, 
 South America, India, Australia, and Japan. Russia is the only major area of the globe not covered 
 by the game in some fashion. Given the complete flexibility of the editor and the easy import of 
 graphic files, user maps and scenarios are popping up on the Web almost daily. The game includes 
 one 18-scenario campaign, but more can be created using the editor.  

 The graphics are wonderful. At high levels of zoom the trains look photo-realistic. As time passes, 
 the various cars (passenger, mail, coal, etc.) change their appearance to match the era. Stations 
 have architectural styles to match the geographic area. Smoke belches from the engines, trails 
 from homes, shoots out of steel mills. Visually, trains remain straight and level instead of following 
 the track uphill or around a tight curve, which takes some getting used to, but watching a 4-8-8-4 
 Big Boy running at full steam is a glorious experience.  

 The sound effects are equally stunning. Each structure has its own sound set. Zoom in to hear the 
 cattle lowing at a ranch; zoom out and the sounds blend together from different buildings giving 
 each region a distinctive personality. Train crashes sound appropriately apocalyptic. Sell some 
 stock and a chorus of voices echoes your actions. The music is good enough to stand on its own, 
 and there is a lot of it, though unfortunately it is all North American in style and spirit. Hearing 
 a lonesome harmonica wail while running the British (rail) Empire is a bit off-putting.  

 The manual does an adequate job of explaining most of the details and concepts of the game, but 
 there are annoying lapses. Gone are the train descriptions of Railroad Tycoon II's ancestor. Instead 
 we get a bare list of trains according to their availability. On the other hand, a large foldout 
 full-color cardboard playing aid shows all the cars, with full details on their weights in different 
 periods, an industry flowchart with all the interrelationships depicted, and lists of buildings, 
 station improvements, and hotkeys.  

 The train model has been simplified to some extent. There are no signal towers, though you can set 
 the priority of a train (express, normal, slow, and stop) and tell it to go, wait until half full, 
 or wait until full of cargo. You cannot drop off cargo at one station to be picked up by another 
 train; one of the few steps back from Railroad Tycoon.  

 The business model is much more complex than Railroad Tycoon. When playing in expert mode you can 
 buy on margin or sell short, giving you and the computer players all the tools to be all the ruthless 
 robber baron you can be.  

 If business bores you, you can turn off some or all of the economic model. In addition to three 
 canned difficulty levels, you can mix and match to create your own custom difficulty settings. 
 Or chuck the whole thing, load a map, and play in "sandbox" mode where the only restriction is 
 your imagination.  

 While Railroad Tycoon II is a real-time game, as was the original, you can pause the game at any 
 time and continue to work in the game. This is especially recommended when manipulating stock; 
 the computer players are ruthless and will gut you if given the chance. It is as easy to gain or 
 lose a fortune in Railroad Tycoon II as it was in the golden age of robber barons.  

 Competing with other railroads is more indirect than in Railroad Tycoon. There are no rate wars. 
 Instead, you can run trains on other railroads' tracks and use their stations, and they can use 
 yours. For this privilege you pay a hefty price that can exceed the actual return, if your stay 
 on their lines is long enough. The computer players manage their rail lines adequately though not 
 on par with a good human player.  

 To do dirt to other railroads you have to wage war on the stock market, and this is where the computer 
 players shine. They are as heartless, cunning, and devious as any of their real-life namesakes. 
 If you become heavily margined trying to secure your own stock, the computer player may, depending 
 on their personality (beware of J. P. Morgan) , dump your stock, even selling it short.  

 The various displays for trains, cargo, stations, and your company make setting up and managing 
 a railroad much easier than before. The map supports multiple levels of zoom, and you can toggle 
 on and off different cargoes' supply/demand, train grades, station displays (having these available 
 on the map makes setting up new routes much easier) , and other features that are legible at all 
 zoom levels.  

 Real life also intrudes more than it used to. Wars, international borders, and economic events have 
 to be dealt with and aren't the pro forma nuisance notices they were in Railroad Tycoon. To run 
 trains through several countries requires obtaining the rights (read: mucho dinero) .  

 There are more than 60 trains and 31 different cargoes as well as a dining car and caboose. There 
 are three station sizes, and the station orientation can be hard-set to one of eight choices or 
 left to the computer. Track layouts can be contorted to ridiculous extremes so that expanding an 
 established rail network is no longer the headache it was in Railroad Tycoon.  

 There are complex cargo relationships. Iron and coal must both be taken to steel mills to get steel. 
 Rubber goes to tire plants, but both steel and tires must be provided for automobile plants to 
 produce their precious load.  

 Playing Railroad Tycoon II with all options on is an immersive experience. You can get lost in the 
 details of stocks, bonds, and mergers or setting up routes and consists. Railroad Tycoon II never 
 becomes a click fest. Sometimes considerable periods can pass without the need for intervention 
 so you can watch your creation at work.   

 There are a few flaws. The most glaring is that there is no undo option when laying track. Laying 
 track on large maps with lots of trains even when paused can be tricky. The program doesn't always 
 keep up with your mouse movements, so saving before track work becomes a necessity.  

 There are also no long bridges or tunnels. They have been "incorporated" into the track-laying process 
 without any visual representation. Instead, when laying track there is a certain self-leveling 
 process that takes place to reduce grades. Some sort of additional grade reduction mechanism would 
 be a good addition. On the upside, there is a greater appreciation for long-haul trains like the 
 Mikado or the Big Boys.  

 Trains crash and breakdown more often than one might like, even when all maintenance options are 
 used. If a crash occurs when you are short of funds there is no way to save the route for a later 
 time when coffers are full nor to directly replace a named train that has crashed. However, Phil 
 Steinmeyer, the developer, is an active participant in the  newsgroup, 
 and one patch has already been issued. So this point isn't moot yet.  

 PopTop has made the difficult look easy. It produced a sequel that eclipses the original in nearly 
 all aspects. Playing Railroad Tycoon II is an emotional experience bringing back memories of Lionel 
 trains and Christmas mornings long past and staring at Lionel catalogs and dreaming. No more arguments 
 with Mom or your spouse over how much of the house has been taken over by your dream layout or 
 how much money you've wasted. With Railroad Tycoon II, all those dreams of childhood can be realized 
 at last.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (7 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: simtim
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 11, 2007 4:35 am PT
Review:  It is not often that I will write a review for a game that is nearly ten years old. But, then again, 
 it is not often that a game stays fresh that long, either. Railroad enthusiasts and business-financial 
 strategists will enjoy this simulation; hence I say it, for another ten years.
  
  With the "Platinum" release of the game, "Railroad Tycoon 2" incorporates all previous expansions 
 and patches into one release and adds another 50 scenarios. There is very little than can be improved 
 upon in this version!
  
  First of all, this game is not a graphics powerhouse. At the time of its release, the graphics 
 were considered to be good. If you are looking for the "Railroad Tycoon" game which up-to-date 
 graphics with details to fire the imagination, this will not be your choice (more on that later) . 
 The limitation of graphics does work in its favor, though; since the game does not require any 
 sort of powerful computer to run it. Indeed, a computer from the past (say, from 2002) would have 
 no difficulty. Machines that were never meant to run games will drive these trains with ease.
 
  
  The general concept behind the game is to deliver supplies and materials between towns and cities 
 in the late nineteenth and twentieth century's. Those supplies will activate industries that will 
 produce wholesale goods and foods that can be distributed elsewhere. In essence, you are creating 
 a distribution network with some very fun and interesting options, all within the confines of the 
 history of railroading!
  
  The locomotives and industries appear in the game within historical context. In 1850, one would 
 find only a handful of wood-burning railroad locomotives available that have performance not much 
 beyond your average horse-and-carriage. But, by the 1920's, all means of steam engines have appeared, 
 some more efficient or speedy than others, giving you the choice of what locomotive to place on 
 what route. Similarly, industries will appear and disappear based on the date and the economic 
 condition of the city. Grain and corn field are common throughout the game. But, steel mills, automobile 
 factories, and even nuclear plants will appear within the correct timeline. Cities will accept 
 milk until a certain date, when the milk must first go through a dairy processor for pasteurization. 
 Your trains can be set up to haul specific types of freight and passenger cars to allow for precise 
 cargo loads.
  
  Towns will grow into cities based on how your distribution network is set up. If a city is fully 
 supplied with its demands, it will grow within a number of years to 3 or even 4 times its original 
 size. More industries, houses (good for producing passengers for your streamliner trains) and demands 
 will be made from your city, giving you the opportunity to sell even more goods. Your train stations 
 must be set up within a certain radius of the city in order to supply the entire town with goods 
 from your trains. The stations can be upgraded to larger sizes which will cover more territory.
 
  
  Another aspect of the game is the financial model, which is fairly complex. Your economy will go 
 through recessions, depressions, and during the good periods, boom times. A fully simulated stock 
 market is included, so that the gamer can purchase stock in his/her own and other railroad companies. 
 During the good times the stock price will skyrocket and even split 2 for 1 (I even saw a 4 to 
 1 at one time) . If you buy enough stock in your opponent's company, you will have a majority in 
 the votes during investor meetings during which you can initiate hostile takeovers to liquidate 
 your competitors. There is nothing more satisfying than being the only remaining company at the 
 end of a scenario!
  
  Industries within the game can be purchased, giving you a complete monopoly of a certain product 
 and distribution net. For instant, if you have a lot of cash and see a good opportunity for a network, 
 you can buy up the industries which form the network. Let's say there is a cattle farm in one city, 
 and a meat processing center in a nearby town. On the outskirts of the town there may be a grain 
 farm. You can buy the farms and meat processing center, then set up a route to deliver the grain 
 to the cows (increasing the supply from the farm every year) , then taking the cows to the meat 
 processing center to be butchered and made into food. The food can then be delivered to a growing 
 town. If you own all those industries, to use a term from the game, you will soon be "gushing cash." 
 To help eliminate your opponents, the player can also purchase the industries along hostile paths, 
 only forcing them to help you destroy themselves!
  
  The locomotives and trains are very well modeled. The game includes all the major locomotives from 
 the history of railroading. This continues all the way to the twenty-first century when high-speed 
 bullet electric monorail trains appear. They appear in realistic colors  that is to say that most 
 steam locos are mostly coal, boiler black. As the ages past they get more colored through the diesel 
 and electric eras. The maintenance costs will increase for your trains over time, making it mandatory 
 to upgrade your fleet.
  
  The campaign mode will take the users through a set of scripted scenarios starting in the United 
 States; then through Europe; and finally end up in the east. The player is given a bronze, silver, 
 gold or no medal depending on their performance.
  
  This game may not be for everyone, since it is fairly complex. There are adjustable levels of difficulty, 
 making it easy enough for a child to play. But, for a railroad enthusiast, this simulation is the 
 holy grail of all "Railroad Tycoon" games and will never get old.
  
  For up-to-date graphics and easier game play, PopTop "Railroad Tycoon 3" is suggested. The game 
 play is similar to "2" (although somewhat scaled back and an "auto-consist" mode for easier train 
 management) but with better, and more memory-hogging graphics. "Sid Meier's Railroads!" is also 
 a very colorful "Railroad Tycoon" game, but it is nowhere near as realistic, complex, or satisfying 
 as this gem from the past.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nightharvest
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 1, 2007 1:28 pm PT
Review:  My favourite toys as a young lad in the mid to late 1970s were a model train set and a slot car 
 set. I would spend many hours sequestered away in my room building and rebuilding tracks and then 
 soaking up the enjoyable simplicity of the vehicles banging to the beat of my then fertile imagination. 
 Unfortunately both of these favoured items met the same grisly fate, rendered inoperative through 
 a sustained melee attack from a then hostile older brother. However, with Railroad Tycoon 2, I 
 was able to relive some of the memories of days long gone.
  
  Railroad Tycoon is a management game in the mould of SimCity and to a lesser extent Civilisation, 
 but it does have its own presentation and identity. There was an extensive campaign, a collection 
 of stand-alone maps and then a number of fan-made maps to be found on the internet available to 
 run trains that span a century in time. Whilst building tracks and trains and watching them choo-choo 
 along the terrain is the pull-factor, underneath this game is a challenging management simulation 
 with a detailed economy, some usefully aggressive competitors and some interesting challenges thrown 
 into the mix. It provides for hours of absorbing gameplay.
  
  Remembering that this game was released in 1998, the graphics were particularly impressive for 
 the time and remain just fine today. The maps were well detailed with clearly identified terrain, 
 elevation and townships. Tracks and trains blended in nicely and the detail, especially when zoomed, 
 was a sight to see. Townships would grow on the map and the level on variety of infrastructure 
 is quite impressive. Your train stations could be seen in full screen mode and this was of reasonable 
 quality without being mind-blowing. The interface was resourceful and well presented and never 
 got in the way of the game.
  
  The sounds were also fine, with train noises from the hissing steam and hollering horns leading 
 the way, with a reasonable amount of environmental effects thrown in for good measure. The campaign 
 relied on some Old Western voice acting and the game chugs along to a blues soundtrack on the 
 sunny side of Lightnin Hopkins.
  
  The best thing about Railroad Tycoon 2 was that it was fun to play, no matter what approach and 
 what format. The campaign is a challenging scenario where a fair understanding of the management 
 and economic models, as well as some astute business dealings, is required to succeed. At times 
 the actual fun of building tracks and trains got lost in the mix as you slugged it out with competitors, 
 timeframes and other impromptu challenges such as trains breaking down, sudden dips in resource 
 prices and intermittent bandit attacks.
  
  The respective models are complex enough and well thought out without bogging the game into an 
 ultra strategic rut. The easiest component to master was the economic model, being moving goods 
 and services from one location to the other for profit and expansion of your empire (through faster 
 trains, carriages, train stations and general wealth) . The competitive model can be a real beast 
  there are some absolute tigers in the computer opponents, which is tough when needing to knock 
 them over as a victory point. The rest of the management is really how the gamer runs their empire. 
 There are choices galore with associated opportunity costs. Go into direct competition with an 
 opponent or just stick to your own routes and assets? Go into a trade war on the stock exchange? 
 This and plenty of other options are available  and perhaps fortuitously so is the options of 
 varying difficultly, game speed, management implications and competitor behaviour, which allows 
 the model train purists to just play this game in their own way.
  
  The stand-alone maps, both provided in game and by the committed mapmaking community (kudos to 
 the gent who made the map of Australia) , are a real highlight. Gone are the pressures of the campaign 
 and it is simply about making your virtual train world. While some maps do have objectives they 
 can be ignored and simply played for as long as you please. It is here you could connect a whole 
 landmass with tracks and trains, and watch the world grow. Anything goes. Do you want to build 
 a track over Swiss Alps? Go for it. Do you want to build a track the mirrors the national highway 
 of Australia? Then off you go. Your imagination is the limit, as Railroad Tycoon has the trains, 
 resources and the gameplay to make it happen.
  
  I purchased Railroad Tycoon 2 for $AUD49 back in 1999 and got a lot of game time from it. The fan-made 
 maps extend the life of the game and its very nature gives it some replayability. An expansion 
 pack was released (The Second Century) which was considerable more challenging but nonetheless 
 enjoyable. The game has been succeeded by Railroad Tycoon 3 which I havent purchased  though 
 I do notice it is being offered at quite a reasonable price on Steam.
  
  Railroad Tycoon 2 is a game for both the management minded and train-lovers. It is a virtual model 
 train set, with lots more variety and scope than anything I had as a kid, and then a fairly decent 
 management simulation thrown in for good measure which can be cranked up or down at your preference. 
 There is something retrospectively warming about watching one the quicker trains on this game scuttle 
 along the tracks with steam hissing, horns blowing and with resources and loot abound. Granted, 
 it can never totally replace the realism of the track in the bedroom, but its also less likely 
 to be sabotaged like my set of yore. Good fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sumit_412002
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 19, 2007 9:57 am PT
Review:  Must Play game which will make you to use every part of your brain.
  Not easy, but really an entertaining and educational game. I have tried to play it a number of 
 times but can't make enough fortune as compared to the computer. Campaigns are hard but interesting.
 
  I think it's the best so far amongst all the Tycoon games.
  Never played Railroad tycoon but can say that it is much better than its previous version. Must 
 Play game which will make you to use every part of your brain.
  Not easy, but really an entertaining and educational game. I have tried to play it a number of 
 times but can't make enough fortune as compared to the computer. Campaigns are hard but interesting.
 
  I think it's the best so far amongst all the Tycoon games.
  Never played Railroad tycoon but can say that it is much better than its previous version. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joeyp7711
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jan 24, 2006 6:32 am PT
Review:  I don't really know how I got this game, it's not really something I'd go out and buy I don't think, 
 as I'm not particularly interested in trains, or where they go... at all. Maybe I got it as a present 
 from a certain uncle..
  
  As from what I can remember playing the game it was interesting to design the railroads and such, 
 but I didn't really get that much out of the game. It was the same thing over and over.
  
  I don't know if anyone else agrees, I just don't see this game going anywhere. It's like the Sims, 
 although that game was supree-adictive. The Sims had something that Railroad Tycoon 2 doesn't, 
 it has a purpose to play it, aswell as the Sims 2, which was aspiration meters and such. Railroad 
 Tycoon's objectives are basic, and boring. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CookieJar
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 12, 2005 12:16 am PT
Review:  Railroad Tycoon is one of those games that you keep coming back to. You'll play it for a while, 
 then maybe forget about it. A few months later you'll come back to it, and you say "Why did I ever 
 stop playing?" It's highly addictive and fun. The gameplay is great for all people. The joy of 
 bringing an emerging railroad to life is just something can't be beat. Overall it's just a great 
 game.
  While the game is great there are a few weak spots. Graphically the game is a bit lacking. Generally 
 it looks sharp and good (I rather like the graphics better than RRT3's 3D) . The one thing that 
 bothers me though is the fact that the trains are only animated in the eight general directions. 
 So when a train is going around a corner it appears to "snap" around the bend. While this has no 
 effect on the gameplay, it just looks unrealistic. 
  The other thing the absolutly drives me crazy in the lack of an "undo" button. Laying track often 
 leads to mistakes and the only way to undo it is to bulldoze it, which cost money. So you end up 
 paying for the track and paying to remove. With the finances as limited as they are, this becomes 
 a very frustating problem.
  While these two things are a problem, the overall game far outshine any negative effect that these 
 flaws have. The game is absolutely amazing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Znuggles
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 13, 2004 1:35 pm PT
Review:  Coming late to the gaming scene, I missed out on the first Railroad Tycoon game, but I did notice 
 that many websites and gaming magazines would compare similar games to it. So when I heard that 
 Railroad Tycoon 2 was coming, I was definitely interested.
  
  That interest proved to be well founded, because Railroad Tycoon 2 quickly became a daily obsession 
 for me. On weekends I would spend the entire day and half the night playing, and even now, six 
 years after its release, I still play it from time to time.
  
  The simple basics of the gameplay  build railroads and stations and set up train routes  grabs 
 you instantly, and then youre caught up in the tasks at hand  follow supply and demand, set up 
 routes where theres money to be made, expand, and fulfil the requirements of the scenario youre 
 playing.
  
  The stock market part of the game is quite complex, and can still cause me some grief  Ive never 
 been very good when it comes to money. But when I do get it right, it can be very satisfying.
 
  
  For its time, Railroad Tycoon 2 had very nice graphics. It might look simple on the surface, but 
 zoom all the way in, and check out the laundry on the clotheslines, waving in the wind. The various 
 menu screens are gorgeous, particularly the train set-up screen, with its pipes and levers that 
 gives the feeling of being on an old steam engine.
  
  The sound is absolutely wonderful, and is key to the great mood of the game, that draws you in 
 and makes you stay. Lots have been said about the cool, bluesy music, but just as important are 
 the many sound effects. The different areas of the map youre playing have different sounds, based 
 on what type of landscape it is (forest, river, etc.) and what industries are in the area youre 
 looking at. The train sounds, especially the steam trains, add a lot of character to the game.
 
  
  If youre looking for a good strategy/management sim type game, and youre on a budget, Railroad 
 Tycoon 2 could very well be exactly what youre looking for.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Equals42
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 27, 2004 3:42 am PT
Review:  I must admit, I have a definite passion for computer strategy games. For my money, the genre engages 
 the mind and feeds the soul like no other. A well-designed strategy game requires the player to 
 contemplate tactics and plan their next move even when they are not actually in front of the computer 
 screen. Finding that one perfect strategy can become an obsession that infiltrates your normal 
 everyday activity like an addictive drug. Come to think of it, addiction is probably the best description 
 of the effect a well-designed strategy game has on a player.
  
  Unfortunately, for the most part, strategy games have been inaccessible to anyone but the core 
 gamer because of their complexity, their subject matter and because of the commitment these games 
 require in terms of time and effort. With Railroad Tycoon II  Gold Edition, however, much of those 
 seemingly inaccessible hurdles have been circumvented. The concept of a railroad tycoon is familiar 
 to almost everyone with the possible exception of the very young. Indeed, it may be argued that 
 the economic concept of supply and demand, central to the railroad tycoon premise, is easily understood 
 by anyone who has ever received an income, even if that income is only an allowance. This baseline 
 of understanding makes Railroad Tycoon II readily accessible to young and old alike, and its excellent 
 design makes the game extraordinarily playable.
  
  The premise of Railroad Tycoon II seems simple enough: build a railroad, make money, become rich 
 and powerful. But the simplicity of the premise is devilishly and delightfully deceiving. Playing 
 the game you will quickly realize that building a railroad that makes money and in turn makes you 
 rich is much easier said than done. Depending on the scenario, players will have to decide what 
 route their railroad will take, which cargo to transport, which destinations will yield the greatest 
 returns, what to build at each station, and which equipment to buy. And these are just the decisions 
 to make before a single train leaves the station.
  
  The user interface in Railroad Tycoon II is elegant and visually stunning. Simple mouse clicks 
 and click and drag operations will have you laying track in no time. Although this ease of use 
 does have a downside. Because it is so easy to get carried away by the ease of laying track, an 
 undisciplined player may find themselves financially strapped. Players must pay special attention 
 to the information provided while performing building functions lest they run out of capital. Lack 
 of capital is a definite tycoon-wannabe no-no.
  
  The scenarios provided in the Gold Edition include not only the scenarios from the original release 
 of Railroad Tycoon II but also scenarios from the 2nd Century expansion pack. In addition, there 
 are twelve new, never-before released, scenarios. The scenarios range from the relatively sublime 
 to the downright impossible. The packaged scenarios encompass the breadth of European and North 
 American railroad development from the early industrial age to the near future. Whether its establishing 
 a connection between Chicago and New York City or completing the transcontinental railroad, players 
 will be challenged with a plethora of logistics decisions.
  
  The economic model that determines how much capital is available and how much capital can be generated 
 by proper railroad management is elegantly straightforward, yet subtly complex and magnificently 
 confounding. Determining which region needs what resources and how best to get them there is a 
 never-ending challenge. This is one of those wonderful strategy games that many can play, but few 
 can master.
  
  The production values for Railroad Tycoon II are tremendous. The user interface is elegant, and 
 the graphics beautifully rendered. As you move across the landscape, sheep bah, cows moo, and industrial 
 production grinds on. The sound of steam engines moving from town-to-town, blowing their whistles 
 and clanging their bells, fills your head with images of nostalgia from a bygone era. 
  
  When it comes to music in a strategy game, my personal preference is to turn it off. But not in 
 this game. The music for Railroad Tycoon II is a perfectly appropriate acoustic blues sound track. 
 The music rides in the background, enhancing the game experience and not detracting from what is 
 happening on the screen. This is a rare and welcome combination in any computer game, and a lesson 
 I wish other game developers would take to heart.
  
  During the past few years computer and console video games have increasingly been blamed for violence 
 in our society, most specifically teenage violence. I never subscribed to this notion, but have 
 tried to be sensitive to those parents who are legitimately concerned about the impact violence 
 has on their children. Railroad Tycoon II contains no violence, unless you count new reports that 
 one of your trains has been robbed by the James Gang. The game is appropriately rated for everyone 
 by the ESRB system. If you are a parent looking for a good non-violent computer game, I submit 
 that this is it.
  
  When you spend much of your time reviewing and previewing computer games, you tend to get a little 
 jaded. Most of the games you play barely register in your conscious mind and you sort of muddle 
 through. But every once in a great while a game comes along that manages to grab your attention. 
 Railroad Tycoon II  Gold Edition has certainly done just that. You may have noticed the word elegant 
 used several times in this review? That is because elegant is the best overall description I 
 can give for this game. If you have never played a strategy game, this is an excellent game to 
 introduce you to the genre. If you have played strategy games before, this game is a must. 
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
