-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Rally Trophy
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/driving/rallytrophy/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec  6, 2001
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.7
Critic Score: 8.3, 18 Review (s)
User Score: 8.4, 115 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: JoWood Productions
Developer: Bugbear
Genre: Rally / Offroad Racing
Date:     Nov 20, 2001
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
If you enjoy this generally lonely style of driving, Rally Trophy will take you on a journey that 
 ranks right up there with the best the racing genre has to offer. 

 The PC gaming industry hasn't always been dominated by modern-day megapublishers such as Electronic 
 Arts and Microsoft. Before all the acquisitions and big-dollar bottom lines, the landscape was 
 dotted with dozens of small, independent development houses that designed games in accordance with 
 their own rules and guidelines. The results were often erratic, yet just as often exciting and 
 original. Austrian-based publisher JoWood Productions takes us back to the best of those times 
 with its first automobile racing game, Rally Trophy. Developed by Finland's Bugbear Entertainment, 
 Rally Trophy is clearly designed to appeal to a niche market. The game focuses on the obscure discipline 
 of solo rally racing, and from a historical perspective. If you enjoy this generally lonely style 
 of driving and can appreciate the game's seriously challenging physics model and unique viewpoint, 
 Rally Trophy will take you on a journey that ranks right up there with the best the genre has to 
 offer.           Rally Trophy's cars are highly detailed, realistic, and quite deformable.    

 
  Unlike most fender-banging PC racing games, Rally Trophy imitates the art of true European rallying. 
 As such, it is essentially a series of perilous time trials in which competitors are released one 
 at a time and asked to negotiate long and sometimes outrageously twisty bits of back road. Apart 
 from a codriver, who incessantly conveys the direction and degree of upcoming turns, you're alone 
 on the track and racing solely against the clock and the posted times of your peers. The game deviates 
 from real-world rallying in that it always positions you as the final entrant and unfortunately 
 doesn't actually let you encounter slower or faster competitors. Yet it is very real in almost 
 ever other sense.   

  Most drivers will need only a few stints behind the wheel to realize that this Finnish import is 
 one of the most demanding PC racing games currently in circulation. For starters, the courses are 
 almost sadistic in nature. Even with your codriver advising on the degree and proximity of the 
 next turn, you'll never really know exactly what to expect until you get there. Drive a given segment 
 a dozen times, and the game's collection of twists, combinations, elevation changes, and surface 
 variations will keep you guessing. And if you do venture off the beaten path, you may well encounter 
 any number of roadside hazards. Trees and boulders stop you dead in your tracks, ditches suck you 
 in and then spit you up into the air if you exit too quickly, and various forms of smaller hazards 
 wreak havoc with your traction. Sometimes you may even find yourself driving across a great open 
 plain with nary an obstacle in sight. It is important to note that despite their generally unforgiving 
 nature, all of the courses mimic real-life terrain and never feel awkward or artificially cramped 
 or exaggerated. Bugbear has also fashioned enough drivable run-off space on either side of the 
 roadway -- space where you can quite easily turn around or go for a little off-road jaunt without 
 ever contacting that final off-limits boundary.           The off-track environment features such 
 scenic wonders as this waterfall.    

  As unpredictable as they are, the courses are also very, very long. Rallies are typically driven 
 in stages, several of which make up each event. In Rally Trophy, much like in last year's Mobil 
 1 Rally Championship, each segment can eat up several minutes. With 42 total stages and a good 
 chance you'll need dozens of attempts to nail each one, campaigning the full championship is truly 
 a grueling exercise. Add to this the frequent night and rain stages, each of which impacts your 
 top speed and handling in a variety of ways. Even die-hard rally enthusiasts will find the going 
 tough.   

  Between stages, you'll be compelled to repair the various bumps and bruises that your car has accrued. 
 Although Rally Trophy vehicles somehow emerge relatively unscathed from full end-overs and never 
 shed parts or morph into the tangled hunks of wreckage seen in that other rally favorite, Colin 
 McRae Rally 2.0, they do suffer a variety of bent bumpers, buckled hoods, cracked windshields, 
 dinged fenders, and broken headlights and taillights. Various mechanical characteristics are also 
 affected by abuse, so it is strongly recommended to keep your car safe and far away from ruts and 
 hazards if you don't want to spend precious postevent repair time fixing equipment that shouldn't 
 have been damaged in the first place. And remember, though your tires never detach or pop and always 
 seem to look in good working order, they too will degrade with time and mistreatment.    

 Yet it is the distinctive appearance and performance attributes of its wonderful vintage automobiles 
 that truly distinguish this from every other rally game. Instead of the contemporary high-tech 
 animals found elsewhere, Rally Trophy takes its drivers back to the '60s and early '70s, when cars 
 were more mechanical than electronic. The game features 11 classic real-life rallying veterans, 
 including such notables as the Mini Cooper S, Ford Cortina and Escort, Volvo Amazon, and Lancia 
 Sratos and Fulvia. Seven of these are kept locked away along with many of the tracks for those 
 who can prove their driving worth, yet each is eventually presented in intricate detail, right 
 on down to the taillights. Bugbear has recorded actual engine notes to go along with each car and 
 obviously worked hard to re-create an astonishingly distinct physics model for each, as well as 
 a seat-of-the-pants feel that today's state-of-the-art machines simply cannot deliver. The sensation 
 of a controlled two- and four-wheel drift is particularly satisfying, as is the willy-nilly feel 
 of such raw, primitive suspension systems. Just try driving one of these little devils with a force 
 feedback stick, and you'll know it's fighting you through every rut and corner. This will be the 
 first chance that PC drivers will have to drive many of these classic sportsters, and it proves 
 to be a thoroughly engrossing and extremely taxing experience that's sure to please serious car 
 buffs.           Rally Trophy's arcade mode is a lot of fun.    

  Nonetheless, Rally Trophy wouldn't be so inherently difficult if it were not for the incredibly 
 fast times posted by the seemingly superhuman computer competitors. This may be the game's biggest 
 flaw, because only the most patient and skillful wheelmen stand a chance of emerging victorious -- unless 
 they're unnaturally skilled or completely versed in every segment of every circuit. Hiking the 
 difficulty level to intermediate and above serves only to make them drive even faster than they 
 already do in novice mode, so that won't be an option for anyone but the absolute best. The optional 
 arcade mode does offer several less-strenuous closed courses -- and the only opportunity to drive 
 head-to-head with computer-controlled cars -- but this certainly doesn't ease the physics model. 
 Nor will it sport a drivable frame rate unless you first detune the resolution to 640x480 and reduce 
 most of the graphics options to their minimums. Nevertheless, the arcade experience is a tremendous 
 amount of fun and thereby should not be glossed over lightly even by the most hard-core traditionalists. 
 Even the multiplayer component, again supporting several cars on the track simultaneously, proves 
 that Rally Trophy can be just as much fun when running fender-to-fender.   

  Graphically, the game is often stunning and sometimes outrageous. Each wonderfully detailed vehicle 
 sports real-time shadows that vary with the shifting position of the sun. Each little translucent 
 window features real-time reflections. Spinning tires emit twirling dust clouds, and sudden stops 
 produce dirt shards. Whether on the track or off, all driving surfaces are richly textured and 
 filled with interesting details and subtle variations. Bugbear did a good job camouflaging its 
 2D trees and vegetation but did an unremarkable job depicting various forms of wildlife, which 
 gallop across the road in front of you. Yet the game's most impressive graphical element is its 
 depiction of that glowing orb in the sky we call the sun. Undoubtedly, these are the most complex 
 and dynamic sun flares and effects ever seen in any racing game. Words simply do not do it justice. 
           Rally Trophy's sun flare effects are absolutely stunning.    

  Speaking of words, you may want to have a few with the belligerent oaf handling your codriving 
 duties. While he capably communicates upcoming turns and hazards, he is a most annoying sort when 
 you've committed any sort of gaffe. Witticisms such as "OK, this time use your eyes. They'll help. 
 Trust me" and "How did you ever get your license?" may sound amusing in the context of this review 
 but are far less so when barked with such frequency and at such a fevered pitch. Sadly, his speech 
 patterns cannot be customized. Otherwise, the game is alive with distinct engine notes, tire-to-surface 
 noises, and a variety of only semibelievable crash effects that sometimes may not occur when they 
 should. Birds tweet in the background, and the roadside audience roars their approval in what quickly 
 becomes a repetitive audio loop.   

  It's true that Rally Trophy simply does not offer some of the high-end perks you might have come 
 to expect from racing games. Your car can't be painted, your replays can't be saved, and you won't 
 find the menu interfaces to be quite as polished as those of the Microsofts or the EAs of the world. 
 However, you will find in Rally Trophy a game that clearly comes from the heart and enthusiastically 
 displays the talents of its designers. Imagine Papyrus' classic Grand Prix Legends on dirt, and 
 you have a pretty clear picture of this, one of the great pure driving games of the new millennium. 
    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (2 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: noblepuker
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 1, 2008 10:43 pm PT
Review:  Rally trophy's a great classic. I've been on a driving kick lately. I wiped the dust of my nascar 
 pro digital II (very good, cheap wheel. never needs calibrating. has a shifter AND paddles) ... sorry, i 
 digress. I started installing all my old favorites. RT is still as fun as the day i bought it. Sweet 
 physics, nice graphics, and classic rally cars (i love the fiat) . I'ts a rally game so your against 
 the clock (i wish you could race AI head to head, tis my only complaint) . If you want to swap paint 
 you'll have to take it online. Not sure how many can race multi.. i'm sure it's 4-8. Driving the games 
 no walk in the park, but it's not nearly as hard as some (like GPL) . I highly recommend this one, it's 
 prob $14.95 now, so go buy it. I'm sure there's still some die-hards still runnin this one online, so 
 finding opponents shouldn't be a problem. I'm about to find out myself.
  
  thanks for your time, hope this helps 
::::::

::::::
UserName: majesticcryx
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 1, 2007 3:42 am PT
Review:  Dedicated PC racing enthusiasts can be lumped into two distinct categories  rally fans and non-rally 
 fans. If youre one of the former, theres a good chance youll be blown away by Rally Trophy.
 
  
  Offering a refreshing change of pace from most rally titles, this superb new off-road racing sim 
 transports you back three decades to an era when rally machines were perilously unsophisticated 
 by todays standards. Eleven different cars can be driven, ranging from an underpowered 1964 Mini 
 Cooper S to a 255-horsepower 1972 Lancia Stratos HF, and the remarkably advanced driving physics 
 of these classic off-road machines puts most other PC racing games to shame.
  
  Apart from its core set of multi-stage rallies set against five national backdrops, Rally also 
 offers a circuit-style arcade-racing option and dedicated multiplayer support on GameSpy. The multiplay 
 is fun, but for me the real pleasure is in the international multi-stages. Rarely has the rally 
 ethic been so faithfully re-created, with careful attention paid to the endurance-intensive realism 
 of off-road competition. Not an easy game by any stretch of the imagination, it requires every 
 ounce of skill you can muster.
  
  Although it also features stellar sound and graphics  including entertaining co-driver commentary 
 and some amazing real-time lighting, particle, weather, and damage effects  Rallys real strength 
 lies in its Grand Prix Legendscaliber vehicle dynamics. These off-road driving physics are so 
 convincing, in fact, that its easy to pardon the game for its generic unlicensed rally venues 
 and highly abbreviated stage lengths.
  A $30 title, Rally Trophy would be a bargain at twice the price. Im officially prepared to say 
 that JoWooD has produced a realistic racing game that stands up to almost any of the competition. 
 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
