-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Rally Championship
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/driving/rallychampionship/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jul 30, 1997
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.1
Critic Score: 7.4, 2 Review (s)
User Score: 7.7, 62 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Electronic Arts
Developer: REEVEsoft
Genre: Rally / Offroad Racing
Date:     Jun 30, 1997

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
One of those rare sims that makes you a fan of a sport you've never even thought about before.

 Rally racing isn't nearly as popular here in the United States as it is in Europe, but that might 
 change if enough people give Rally Championship a try. It's one of those rare sims that makes you 
 a fan of a sport you've never even thought about before - so good, in fact, that it might lead 
 some folks to take it up in real life.  

 Rally Championship is based on the Network Q RAC Rally, the final event in the FIA World Rally Championships. 
 The Network Q RAC Rally consists of 28 stages; in Rally Championship, you can choose to race on 
 any single stage, tackle a group of stages based on difficulty, or strap yourself in for the entire 
 300-mile event. Victory in the championship depends not only on your driving skills, but also on 
 how you manage repairs: You're only allotted 20 minutes after every three or four stages to fix 
 whatever system or component has taken damage. You've got the option to set up your car's suspension, 
 brakes, steering, gear ratios, and tire type - and adjusting them really does make a difference 
 in how the cars handle.  

 What makes Rally Championship so appealing is its basics: the cars and the courses. Unlike Formula 
 1 or IndyCar racing, the cars in Rally Championship are a lot like ones you might drive to work. 
 They're souped-up considerably, of course, but each of the six cars in here has a production-model 
 cousin (although we Americans probably aren't too familiar with the Skoda Felicia or Proton Wira) . 
 If you think driving an IndyCar at 200 mph is fun, just wait until you try handling a Ford Escort 
 screaming down a graveled road at 150-plus mph!   

 Then there are the courses, or stages. Forget the smooth pavement of a NASCAR oval or the pristine 
 city streets of a Formula 1 track; compared to the 28 stages in the RAC Rally, those are for grandmas 
 only. Some of these stages have so many twists and turns they resemble the small intestine - and 
 judging from the mud, gravel, snow, and water crossings you'll face, it's apparently not a very 
 healthy small intestine, either.  

 Car and scenery graphics are excellent, but all the road surfaces are strangely pixelated, even 
 on the highest detail settings. Fortunately, the sensation of speed more than compensates for that 
 shortcoming - you'll notice that a paved road looks like cobblestones, for instance, but you won't 
 really care. Control is excellent even via the keyboard, and the computer opponents are hardly 
 pushovers: They'll do almost anything to keep you from passing, even if it means a few bumps in 
 a turn or a tap on the bumper. There's also support for up to eight players via an IPX network, 
 and it's a sure thing that a race with seven friends would be a sheer adrenaline rush.   

 With so many stages and so many ways to play, Rally Championship easily outdistances Sega Rally 
 Championship, the last entry in the rally sweepstakes - but falls a bit short of claiming the PC 
 racing crown. There's no denying that Rally Championship serves up a ton of very addictive racing 
 action, but it compromises a tad too much in the realism department.  

 Take car damage, for instance: You might see a message that says your engine or exhaust system has 
 been damaged, but no matter how many times you kiss trees or slam opponents, your car always comes 
 out looking showroom fresh, save for a few mud splatters. As in and , the courses are bounded by 
 invisible force fields - lucky for the spectators who would be crushed to death if those weren't 
 there, but a disappointment for those of us who would like to see a race-ending crash into a tree 
 or wall.   

 Another minor frustration is Rally Championship's multiplayer support. It would be unreasonable 
 to expect Rally Championship to be playable over the Net, but the lack of head-to-head play via 
 modem or direct connection will have you scratching your head.   

 But not for long, because it's already time to run the next stage. Whether you're looking for unadulterated 
 arcade action or a serious simulation, Rally Championship delivers the goods. Give it smoother 
 road graphics, visual car damage, and enhanced multiplayer support, and Rally Championship will 
 be set to challenge the very best the PC racing world has to offer.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (2 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: gta11
Rating: 7.2
Date: Nov 19, 2006 2:50 am PT
Review:  Rally Championship For PC.
  
  
  I've never really been a fan of Rally games but when my Mum hired this from Blockbuster one day 
 i was like i don't even like Rally games really but i ended up liking it i guess.
  
  Gameplay : The gameplay in this game isnt brilliant. On a whole, the game is quite fun, with loads 
 of official licensed cars to race (about 36 in fact) . The game doesnt try to baffle you with car 
 set-ups and uses only the basic settings that you are allowed to change, however this partially 
 takes away from the realism. When you first get into the game you will realise that it isnt too 
 hard, but the difficulty can be changed, as can the cars you use. The main problem with this game 
 is realism. It has great graphics but there are several things that lack. The main thing is powersliding. 
 Yes, this is a rally game with hardly any powerslides at all, so sliding round a muddy, wet Scottish 
 bend is out of the question. Even if you try to power slide, you tap the handbrake and the car 
 either stops dead or slams into a barrier. Disappointing indeed. Another is damage. Slamming your 
 car into a tree, lamppost, wall etc, will do very little to wreck you car. Bits very rarely drop 
 off and the most that seems to happen is parts of the bodywork get dented. You will often get told, 
 after a collision, that your lights, suspension or steering is damaged but this has hardly any 
 effect on the way the car feels. The weather is very limited. There only seems to be three types; 
 rain, snow and sun. Very limiting also. Another aspect is your co-driver. He is the guy who tells 
 you of hazards and of the lengths and tightness of corners. Now, sometimes the caution or the square 
 left doesnt come and you will find your self ploughing into a rock and left screaming: Why the 
 hell didnt you warn me of that! at your co-driver. However, one positive point about this game 
 is it is completely glitch free apart form the co-driver thing. This helps the game on its way 
 as everything runs smoothly and as it should be. The main part of the game is the career mode, 
 which sees you racing in local rallies with small cars and gaining money to progress to professional 
 level. As you move up through the three different classes, you can purchase bigger and faster cars. 
 Thats about it really. There are the usual single race options and time trial modes as well. Graphics 
 : There not the best thats for sure but the overly lameness of the graphics make the game a bit 
 better and i don't know why.
  The textures all look muddy if you ask me.
  
  Sound : The music isnt very noticeable and the engine noises all sound the same in the lower classes. 
 The in-car view provides some good engine sounds, especially when going over rough ground or puddles. 
 The sound of the turbo in your car firing is quite satisfying as well but nothing really shines 
 out in terms of audio. Well, after you complete the main career mode there isnt that much left 
 to do. There are about 3 secret cars to unlock but this only slightly enhances the replay value. 
 This is a very average game and I wouldnt advise buying it unless you hire it and really like 
 it. The game sports quite a few real cars, all crafted excellently and several good rally events 
 with some sub par graphics. The game lets itself down on things like the replayability and overall 
 gameplay.
  With games like Colin McRae 3 heading fast around the corner, this game will struggle to keep up 
 and will probably be left sitting in last place. This is a game with several good rally events 
 and cars but sadly they do little to enhance what could be a really good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShadowUs3r
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 9, 2006 1:13 pm PT
Review:  Wow, almost 10 years later.. This game is still keeping me entertained. Bought it back in around 
 July of 97 for around 45 dollars at Radio Shack. 
  
  Even though the graphics have aged greatly over time, I still get a sense of really being in a 
 rally car.. Ripping down a gravel road at over 180mph.
  
  The in car view is the best of the three views you get. When it is snowing, raining.. the little 
 wipers sweep away whatever is hindering your view. 
  
  The night races are the craziest of all the the races you can do.
  
  You lose one light, or 
 both.. You're almost screwed. 
  
  Blah blah blah.. I'm going on too long. Ending this here. 
  
  Going to say that this is the 
 best European Rally game to ever hit north american shores. I love it. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
