-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Rama
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/adventure/rama/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec 17, 1996
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.9
Critic Score: 7.3, 6 Review (s)
User Score: 7.5, 54 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Sierra Entertainment
Genre: Adventure
Date:     Oct 31, 1996

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
If what you're looking for in an adventure game is plenty of challenging puzzles, you'll be in high 
 heaven with Rama. 

 If what you're looking for in an adventure game is plenty of challenging puzzles, you'll be in high 
 heaven with Rama. It's not without its problems and idiosyncrasies, however, and if you enjoy a 
 little character interaction woven into your puzzle-solving forays you're likely to be left a little 
 cold by the non-interactive video clips used for conversation.  

 Inspired by the series of books of the same name by Arthur C. Clarke and Gentry Lee (most of the 
 characters in this game are taken from Rama II) , Rama casts you as an astronaut sent to replace 
 a recently deceased member of a team of astronauts exploring a huge, cylindrical spacecraft of 
 unknown origin that's recently arrived in our solar system. While you're naturally excited about 
 exploring this alien wonder, keep in mind the reason you've been chosen for the journey: Unlike 
 some adventure games, in Rama you can die during your explorations. Luckily, the dangers are relatively 
 few and far between, and if you do meet an untimely end you're at least told why.  

 A veritable avalanche of vidmail awaits you on Rama, and you quickly learn that each of your fellow 
 astronauts has his or her own agenda. Unfortunately, you never truly interact with any of these 
 characters; you either read vidmails or listen to them talk without the ability to question them 
 or even respond. On the plus side, the acting is uniformly good, and the video is extremely well 
 integrated into the rendered locales. After thoroughly scouring the team's two camps for objects 
 and heading to the tent camp, you're told to start exploring on your own - and that's where the 
 game really kicks in.  

 You play from a first-person perspective, using "stepped" movement a la Myst instead of smooth scrolling. 
 A goodly portion of the puzzles - especially in the first part of the game - are based on various 
 mathematical systems (Base Two, Base Three, Base 16, etc.) or pattern recognition. To open doors 
 you need to find symbol plaques, which are scattered all over Rama, and finding them all is almost 
 as challenging as solving the puzzles. Some are tucked away in places where they're easily overlooked 
 the first time around, and many of the plaques you'll pick up aren't needed (there's no way to 
 drop them once you find that out, either) . The math puzzles are a bit trickier until you realize 
 what number system you're dealing with, and that you can just whip out your trusty Windows 95 calculator 
 and do the hexadecimal and octadecimal problems with no fuss or muss. Fortunately, there's a good 
 number of situational and object-based puzzles to solve that are equally challenging, so things 
 don't get too esoteric.  

 A simple interface makes it easy to jump headlong into the exploration of the massive Raman ship, 
 but after a few hours of play you'll notice a few rough spots around the edges. The graphic shell 
 which surrounds the main game display takes up nearly 40% of the screen, and for no practical reason; 
 the only features accessible from the shell are a scrolling inventory screen (more on that later) , 
 "Raman Eyes" for examining an inventory item (just as easily accomplished with a right mouse-click 
 on the item) , and an Options button (saving games, adjusting volume and brightness, etc.) . Rama 
 only runs in 640x480, so if your Windows resolution is 800x600 the main game display is even smaller. 

 This game screams for a separate inventory screen, which would allow the main game display to be 
 larger, and more importantly would let you see all (or at least most) of your inventory objects 
 at one time instead of just eight. That would be a big help, because you pick up a lot of stuff 
 as you explore the spaceship, and would eliminate a lot of scrolling the inventory list in search 
 of a particular item. A separate inventory screen would also make it easier to organize objects 
 into groups (panels, plaques, keys, etc.) .  

 Instead of a Look command, you rely on a holographic guide named Puck for information on the Raman 
 ship, and even though his comments are of little help you'll still use him a lot. Because Puck 
 is stored in your inventory rather than being accessible by, say, a mouse-click on the main game 
 display, you'll often have to scroll to find him - an unnecessary bit of work to perform such a 
 common action.  

 Another annoyance is the lack of separate volume controls for music and speech; sometimes during 
 video clips it's hard to hear what a character's telling you. It usually doesn't matter - most 
 characters just show up and hand you something anyway - but it's still frustrating.  

 But these problems are far outweighed by the sheer amount of gameplay here. While I was a little 
 disappointed by the lack of interaction with the characters in the game, most adventurers will 
 be so engrossed in solving the puzzles that they won't miss it one bit. With its high production 
 values and fidelity to the Rama books, this is an excellent choice for both adventure gamers and 
 Arthur C. Clarke fans.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (1 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: maxwilco
Rating: 7.2
Date: Nov 1, 2006 9:34 pm PT
Review:  While Rama may not be know as the Greatest Game of the 20th century, it's still not a bad game. 
 Developed by Sierra and based off of Arthur C. Clarke and Gentry Lee's Series of books, Rama is 
 one adventure game that you'll be sure to remember (Or not.) . In Rama, you play the role of an 
 astronaut who mission is to explore a gigantic cylindrical spaceship and decipher incredibly challenging 
 puzzles that would make Albert Einstein rip out what remaining hair he has left. The puzzles themselves 
 aren't that hard to figure out what you have to do. It's just trying to actually solve the puzzles 
 that's the problem. An example: A majority of the first part of the game it spent trying to open 
 door and activate elevators by solving tile patterns puzzles. You're given a tile board that has 
 9 tiles slots. Most of them are filled in, but one or two are missing, and the tiles that you must 
 insert are scattered across the spaceship. The irritating part is that the right tile has to go 
 with the right set. If you insert the wrong tile, the machine spits the tile back out at you, and 
 the the puzzle changes to a different one. To figure out what tile goes with what set, you've got 
 to look for patterns and trends in the tiles. However, it's impossible to figure out what they 
 are. But aside from that, Rama still is fun. You'll pick up an array of interesting items. One 
 of the most interesting in particular is a little robot named Puck, who gives you descriptions 
 of the various machines and such you encounter as you journey through the game. However, you'll 
 have to remember as you explore Rama, you'll have to be wary, as certain actions will lead you 
 to an untimely demise, which brings us to our first safety tip when exploring: Avoid the crab biots 
 (Note: Biot stands for biological robot.) If you do die, then Arthur C. Clarke appears and apologizes 
 for you dying (Isn't that great? I think this must be the only game in history that apologizes 
 for you character dying. Man! What a deal! Anyway, back to the review.) Throughout the game, you'll 
 also encounter the characters from the Rama books, whose roles are fulfilled by the live-action 
 actors. You'll also encounter the aliens who inhabit the Rama spaceship. One of the most interesting 
 alien races are the avians, humongous featherless birds that would give Sesame Street's Big Bird 
 and Final Fantasy's chocobos a run for their money. The story is played out through mail and videos 
 you find on datacubes, or that you're sent to you by the other astronauts that you view on you 
 arm-computer, which oddly reminds me of the Nintendo DS. Rama's quest stretches across two discs, 
 which takes you from the Northern Plains, to New York Island on the Cylindrical Sea. There's also 
 a third disc, which includes interview with Arthur C. Clarke and Gentry Lee, and interviews with 
 the astronauts. (The characters, not the actual actors.) All I can say about Rama is that if you're 
 up for an interesting adventure, and if you can find it on Amazon. com or E-Bay, you should buy 
 it and try it. However, if stink at solving puzzles, you'd better start searching for a good walkthrough 
 for the game. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
