-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Ratatouille
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/ratatouille/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Gameplay is fine for younger players.
 A decent roster of minigames for both single-player and multiplayer.
 Some solid voice work from the film's cast.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Gameplay is too simplistic for older audiences.
 Mission designs are repetitive and a bit dull.
 Not much story to be found here.
 Graphics aren't much to look at.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jul  3, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6
Critic Score: 5.5, 1 Review (s)
User Score: 5.4, 110 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: THQ
Developer: Asobo Studio
Genre: 3D Platformer
Date:     Jun 26, 2007 &raquo;  
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Ratatouille is a sufficient, if unfulfilling, platformer. 

  One of the key themes of Pixar's latest animated film,  Ratatouille , is not settling for junk 
 food -- literally. The hero, a rat named Remy, is always telling his brother to eschew eating any 
 random garbage he finds in favor of working to find something more flavorful, and ultimately, satisfying. 
 At the same time, the evil chef, Skinner, is conspiring to turn now-deceased master chef Auguste 
 Gusteau's image into a mascot for cheaply made frozen cuisine, a plot that the heroes of the film 
 have to thwart. So it's a bit disappointing and slightly ironic that the video game based on the 
 film has more in common with the cheap junk food the film decries than any well-prepared, savory 
 dish. Like other recent games based on computer-animated flicks, Ratatouille for the PlayStation 
 2, GameCube, PC, Xbox, and Wii is a simple, kid-friendly platformer that loosely ties into the 
 plot of the film and is generally unchallenging and, ultimately, unsatisfying. It's not an awful 
 game by any means, and young kids might get a kick out of a few of the minigames and story sequences. 
 But for those with a more refined palette, Ratatouille is a paltry dish.  

  Both the film and the game tell the story of Remy, a rat living in France who dreams of becoming 
 a master chef -- a dream that doesn't quite jibe with the others in his rat colony, especially his 
 father. Unlike all the other rats, Remy won't eat just any piece of garbage lying around; he pines 
 for more unique and expansive flavors, and actually has the crazy idea to try  preparing  his food 
 with herbs and spices. So it is with great fortune that circumstance brings Remy to Paris and the 
 doorstep of the restaurant once owned by his favorite TV chef, Gusteau. From here, the film launches 
 into a brilliantly funny plot about Remy and a hapless garbage boy, Linguini, teaming up to create 
 a master chef tandem. The game addresses a few of the key points from the movie, and even includes 
 a few cooking sequences where you control Linguini in some Cooking Mama-style minigames. But for 
 the most part, the game skips over any potential spoilers and keeps its focus on missions involving 
 Remy and his rat-colony buddies stealing food from various Paris locations.  

           Ratatouille is about as standard a platformer as you'll ever find.      

  Each location 
 is a large world to explore, though most of the missions are set up fairly linearly, so exploring 
 doesn't net you much more than some occasional collectible stars -- of which there are hundreds scattered 
 throughout the game. Missions are standard platforming fodder. You jump and swing around various 
 boxes, platforms, tightropes, ledges, and other pieces of the environment to get to areas that 
 hold specific items, bring them back to other characters, or use them on other specific objects 
 to unlock the next objective. Occasionally these missions are broken up by the occasional cooking 
 minigame, as well as some chasing and sliding sequences. Chase bits have you running from one of 
 the human characters as they stumble around, trying to snatch you up. Sliding bits have you sliding 
 down some pipe, chute, or other sloped surface while collecting stars along your path and avoiding 
 sliding off the edge into oblivion.  

  While a few of the minigames and sequences have a spot of originality to them, much of Ratatouille 
 is pure formula. The mission designs are simplistic and a bit repetitive, and the controls are 
 designed for such ease of use that it's hard to imagine anyone with two hands having much issue 
 playing the game. Jumps are forgiving, traversing narrow ledges requires no skill (as you're basically 
 glued to the ledge if you press a button as you jump toward it) , and you can basically magnetize 
 yourself to small platforms and tightropes (by pressing the same aforementioned button) . Thinking 
 out your path to the goal is about the toughest thing on offer in Ratatouille, and even that doesn't 
 take much effort.  

  You'll breeze through the story mode in afternoon if you're dedicated enough, but on the plus side, 
 there are more minigames to be found outside of the main story. Some of these are single-player 
 only, and some are simply variations of the sliding, chasing, and cooking from the main game. However, 
 there are some multiplayer games to be played, like races, item-collection competitions, and a 
 variant on king of the hill. There's also a multiplayer championship version of the single-player 
 minigames where you can compete in cook-offs and sliding time trials. None of these games are exactly 
 substantial, and they wear thin after a few plays each, but they're a welcome addition to what 
 would otherwise be a very lean game. There are also some unlockable movies, pictures, and other 
 film-related bric-a-brac to unlock as well, if you're into that sort of thing.  

  There's not a great deal to please the eyes or ears in Ratatouille. Voice acting is about the best 
 thing the audio has going for it, including some performances by actors from the film, like Patton 
 Oswalt and Brian Dennehy. Unfortunately, there's not a whole lot of it, and very little of the 
 dialogue is anywhere near as clever or amusing as what the film offers. Graphically, the game displays 
 a few nice touches. The environments seem appropriately large, and some of the animations, especially 
 those of Linguini as he hacks together various dishes, are mildly amusing. But everything else 
 in the game has a bland look to it. Remy's movements are stiff, most of the human movements are 
 even stiffer, and environmental detail is minimal. There's little difference to speak of between 
 any of the older console, PC, or Wii versions of Ratatouille. The PC version predictably looks 
 the sharpest, and the PS2 version looks the dullest, though the differences are minor all around. 

           Minigames, chases, and sliding sequences do a bit to break up the monotony of the standard 
 missions.      

  There are also some slight control differences to note between versions. The PC version requires 
 a decent gamepad to play properly, and the Wii version dabbles in motion controls. You don't have 
 to do much in the main game besides waggle the remote to attack enemies and steer the camera awkwardly 
 by holding down the C button and pointing with the Wii Remote to drag it around. The minigames 
 also make use of the Wii Remote, specifically the cooking minigames, where you'll peel potatoes 
 and fold crepes by making various motions. With the exception of the camera movement, these controls 
 are basically responsive and implemented well enough.  

  And that's the thing about Ratatouille -- everything it does is done well enough to function, but 
 never beyond that. It's edible without ever being especially tasty. It's the sort of game that 
 will satisfy a younger fan of the film for a few lazy afternoon hours, and then be forgotten about 
 immediately afterward. It's hard to justify paying between $40 and $50 for any version of such 
 an ultimately disposable game (the PC version is, at least, going for $20) , but if your kid is 
 desperate to relive Remy's adventures for him or herself, Ratatouille isn't a bad game to rent. 
 And if you're old enough to feel embarrassed whining to your parents about buying you a game based 
 on an animated film, you're officially too old for Ratatouille, and should just skip it altogether. 
     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (2 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: junkchaser
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 8, 2007 12:49 am PT
Review:  Let's see ... I saw the movie and now I have the game. No way I was buying this for myself but 
 if you are looking at someone playing a game you want to try it too, right? riiight?!
  
  I must say I was surprised how nice and well build this game was. Nice colorful levels, funny conversations 
 of the characters, etc. As I was playing an hour or two was passed before I knew it.
  The graphics are not really state of the art but it does the trick.
  
  I think this game is 
 a thrill for children who are fan of the movie.
  For some of us, especially girlfriends this game can be also amusing ;-) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Defenseman13
Rating: 4.1
Date: Jul 16, 2007 3:28 am PT
Review:  ehhhh..... I'm so in love with the movie, a lot in part due to being a rat owner... it's hard to 
 bash this game the way I want to.
  
  After all, it's meant for children. Or is it? I hesitate to call most reviewers children, even 
 though you are one if you're under the age of 15. But.... any 8 year old should have little difficulty 
 with this game.
  
  Not that difficulty makes a game. But... the movie was so good.
  
  ok, look. There's only so much I can expect from a movie game, the same way I can pretty much predict 
 that a movie made from a game will suck. And they all have. ALL OF THEM. So why with the original 
 voice actors and actual scenery from the movie, does this game fail so?
  
  1) Horrible, horrible camera control. If you have to swing from place to place and find your way 
 through tight spaces, the camera should follow. There are HORRIBLE issues (not unplayable, but 
 unforgivable) with the camera, which will result in your death and repeated tries.
  
  2) Outdated graphics. With my monster rig, on the best resolution with the best combos, they are 
 dated. Which could be totally forgiven with a better story.
  
  3) No depth and ridiculous WTF's. THe characters are flat. Simply flat. It was so exciting being 
 able to see all the characters from the kitchen.. or was it? If you're going to have the original 
 voice actors, why the hell can't you at least give them more lines? Remy's brother has some of 
 the worst, being so out of sync with the scene it's almost unplayable. Forget about Linguini. The 
 two times you talk to him or interact with him he delivers horrible lines... AND... get this... if 
 you touch him, you get damage. WTF? He'll kill you?
  
  4) Too short, and my god... the worst ending... EVER. If you are a fan of this movie and are like 
 me... wanting to get more out of this franchise, give it a spin. There are some really great moments 
 and memorable parts, like the rat colony (inhabited by 5 rats at the most... pathetic, and none 
 of them talk to you or interact) and some cool areas from the movie.
  
  For the most part, you will finish this game feeling like someone just swindled you for a lot of 
 money. And especially, after seeing the movie and falling in love with the characters, you'll feel 
 cheated out of something that could have been really great, had this game not been pushed out the 
 door quickly with no respect towards the customer, to make a quick buck.
  
  Shame on you, developers. Shame on you. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
