-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Rayman 3: Hoodlum Havoc
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/rayman3hoodlumhavoc/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr  4, 2003
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.1
Critic Score: 7.8, 12 Review (s)
User Score: 8.5, 358 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ubisoft
Genre: 3D Platformer
Date:     Mar 24, 2003
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Rayman 3 is completely worthy of the Rayman name, and is easily one of the most satisfying platforming 
 experiences to come to the PC in a good while. 

  It's been three-and-a-half years since Ubi Soft's limbless platforming hero did his part in redefining 
 the 3D platformer. Super Mario 64 might have laid the groundwork, but anyone who's played Rayman 
 2: The Great Escape can tell you that this little French fellow refined the formula with impeccable 
 production, a unique sense of style, and some of the most varied and inventive gameplay yet seen 
 in a 3D platformer. But now that he's finally back, is Rayman 3: Hoodlum Havoc the life-altering 
 follow-up that players have been waiting for? In a word, no. Rayman 3 doesn't blow the doors off 
 Rayman 2, but it does further refine the formula, is completely worthy of the Rayman name, and 
 is easily one of the most satisfying platforming experiences to come to the PC in a good while. 

          Rayman 3 is easily one of the most satisfying platforming experiences to come to the PC 
 in a good while.    Admiral Razorbeard and his robot parade have been completely flushed from the 
 world of Rayman, but many of the supporting characters from Rayman 2 return. The Cheshire cat-inspired 
 insect Murfy helps Rayman through the tutorial areas of the game. The small and magical teensies 
 still play the part of the hostages and help Rayman along on his quest when they can. Rayman's 
 aquamarine-toned lummox of a friend Globox returns, playing an even larger part than he did in 
 Rayman 2. Through a series of events, Globox ends up with Andy, the leader of the dark lums, in 
 his stomach. The dark lums are sort of like the energy-restoring red lum pixies from Rayman 2, 
 only really mean. The teensies send Rayman and Globox to find a doctor who specializes in stomach 
 problems, but Andy and his army of hoodlums (lums that wear hoods, get it?) are going to try to 
 stop them at every turn. Of course, Globox's tummy ache is just the tip of the iceberg, but the 
 situation sets the tone for the rest of the game nicely.  

          Rayman 3 definitely puts a greater focus on combat than previous entries, and Rayman is 
 better equipped for it, too.    Rayman has always been a very versatile platforming hero, with 
 the jumping and the punching and the grappling and the gliding, and Rayman 3 expands considerably 
 on the lead character's abilities. Much like Rayman 2 before it, Rayman 3 delivers a decidedly 
 console-style experience, and as such, the game is best played with a good gamepad. The game sports 
 good old-fashioned keyboard support as well, and because you can bind any of the actions to any 
 keys you see fit, this still works pretty well. Rayman 3 definitely puts a greater focus on combat 
 than previous entries, and Rayman is better equipped for it, too. Rayman now has the ability to 
 strafe around enemies, and when he's close enough to the enemy he's facing, he'll automatically 
 lock onto it. Rayman can still throw a straight punch, as well as a charged punch, and if you're 
 locked onto an enemy and pushing to the left or right while throwing your punch, your punch will 
 curve accordingly. These curved punches can come in handy against enemies hiding behind obstacles, 
 as well as in some specific puzzles.  

  Defeating certain hoodlums and rescuing certain teensies will produce an energy canister that can 
 grant Rayman special skills for a short period of time, though the amount of time you'll have differs 
 for each ability. All told you find five different types of energy canisters through the course 
 of the game. Red canisters give Rayman big metal fists that are capable of taking out enemies with 
 one punch and busting down otherwise unbreakable doors. Blue canisters equip Rayman's fists with 
 what look like iron jaws on the ends of chains, which are handy for grappling. Green canisters 
 produce a sort of whirlwind punch useful for lowering specific kinds of platforms. Yellow canisters 
 give you a helicopter hat with some upward lift. And, finally, orange canisters equip Rayman with 
 a potent but short-range guided missile. The game introduces these power-ups slowly, initially 
 using them just to help make the proceedings a little bit more manageable. But as you get into 
 the thick of things, the power-ups become integral parts of puzzles, and near the end you'll find 
 yourself juggling from one power-up to the next just to keep alive. Fans of Rayman 2 might initially 
 be taken aback by the changes Rayman 3 makes to the gameplay, but ultimately, they help maintain 
 the pace of the game and help bring greater variety to the action.     

  Variety of action has always been a trademark of the Rayman games, and Rayman 3 delivers on this. 
 In between his regular platforming duties and slugging it out with hoodlums, Rayman will ride on 
 top of beams of energy inside what can only be described as a disco kaleidoscope, drive around 
 in a giant shoe, defend a pirate ship against attackers, attempt to outrun a rising lava line, 
 play both pilot and tailgunner on a tiny spaceship, and engage in several good old-fashioned boss 
 fights. The game is full of some memorable set pieces, like the ethereal crystal castle and the 
 house of mirrors, where platforms are only visible in their reflection. The game does eventually 
 settle into a bit of a pattern -- platforming puzzle, hoodlum fight, platforming puzzle and a hoodlum 
 fight at the same time, boss fight, and so on -- but the actual action itself is so consistently 
 engaging and unique that by the time you've become acutely aware of the pattern, the game is over. 

          Visually, Rayman 3 maintains the spirit of Rayman 2, but with a much broader, brighter 
 color palette.    Rayman 3 is a pretty short game, and most players won't take more than 15 hours 
 to get through it the first time, though there are some pretty cool incentives to keep you going 
 back to levels you've already beaten. Wasting hoodlums, collecting gems, and freeing teensies in 
 the main quest will net you points, a new addition to the Rayman series, and accruing enough points 
 will unlock bonus minigames. Some of them are pretty run-of-the-mill, like the simplistic tennis 
 game, while others, like the surprisingly playable first-person shooter minigame, display the sort 
 of inspiration that has made Rayman games so great. In terms of features, Rayman 3 for the PC is 
 identical to its Xbox and PlayStation 2 counterparts, right down to the charming side-scrolling 
 platformer minigame.  

  Visually, Rayman 3 maintains the spirit of Rayman 2, but with a much broader, brighter color palette. 
 While Rayman 2 used primarily subdued colors, Rayman 3 isn't afraid to get loud with the colors, 
 to the point of being downright psychedelic. The range of environments you'll play through is great, 
 jumping from a serene forest, to a murky swamp, to the inappropriately named Land of the Living 
 Dead, to a hellish desert, a snowy mountaintop, and much, much more. While a lot of the environments 
 are well worn within the platformer genre, Rayman 3 keeps them interesting with unique level designs 
 and crisp, gorgeous textures. The high-quality textures really make a huge difference, and you'll 
 rarely see a texture that looks like filler -- everything is there to help further establish that 
 level's atmosphere. Rayman himself looks more refined as well, though much of his animation has 
 been obviously recycled from Rayman 2, and the lack of any transitional animations can cause some 
 abrupt changes in movement. The game also sports much more advanced lighting than seen in Rayman 
 2, with just about every action producing some kind of unique particle effect. The particle effects 
 in the PC version of Rayman 3 don't look quite as lively and vibrant as in the Xbox or GameCube 
 versions, but this is the only area where the PC version's graphics fall short of the console games' 
 presentation. The textures are at their sharpest on the PC, displaying the game's unique, hand-painted 
 textures with a kind of clarity that consoles simply cannot pull off.  

          Ultimately, Rayman 3 probably isn't the mind-blowing follow-up that fans of Rayman 2 were 
 hoping for.    If there is any single flaw in Rayman 3's visual presentation that's worth pointing 
 out, it's the camera. The game generally keeps the camera pointed where you need it, and there's 
 even a fair amount of automation to help things out. Also, going into strafe mode will automatically 
 snap the camera behind you, which can usually alleviate most problems. But when walking down narrow 
 passageways, the camera will feel a bit jerky, and the camera will sometimes get snagged, lingering 
 behind longer than it should. These are common problems for third-person action games, ones that 
 Rayman 2 was also subject to, but because of the polish that the rest of the game exudes, these 
 relatively small problems are that much more noticeable.  

  Another noticeable problem with Rayman 3 lies in the sound. Well, it's not so much a problem, really, 
 as it is a style choice. Up until Rayman 2 Revolution for the PlayStation 2, everyone in the Rayman 
 universe spoke in his or her own nonsense dialect with subtitles, as in Animal Crossing, Banjo-Kazooie, 
 or The Sims. Rayman 3, however, features an all-star cast of voice actors and discards the Rayman-speak 
 entirely. The voice acting itself is competent, with John Leguizamo doing a surprisingly good job 
 of voicing Globox, but some of the dialogue the characters are given feels like it's trying too 
 hard to be self-aware and hip. There are some other recurring sounds that can become a bit grating 
 over time, like the "you just unlocked a new area" sound, but generally speaking the sound in Rayman 
 3 is well done. As if to try to bring some street cred to the franchise, Ubi Soft brought in dance 
 act Groove Armada to do the intro music to the game, and it's a catchy tune, but it's not really 
 representative of the rest of the game's music. Plenty of the music hearkens back to Rayman 2, 
 which uses a sort of New Age sound to help evoke a genuine sense of wonder when appropriate. Unafraid 
 to stray from its roots, the music will shift to disco-funk or hard-rockin' action-movie techno 
 during the appropriate segments.  

  To sum things up, Rayman 3: Hoodlum Havoc is an excellent 3D platformer. Though the game is rich 
 with extracurricular features, the main quest proves to be a little too short, and the game doesn't 
 provide quite the same level of satisfaction as its predecessor. Ultimately, Rayman 3 probably 
 isn't the mind-blowing follow-up that fans of Rayman 2 were hoping for. What Rayman 3 does is re-create 
 much of the same lighthearted whimsy that made Rayman 2 so incredibly enjoyable, while differentiating 
 the action enough for the game to stand up on its own.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (6 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: fandom888
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 13, 2008 6:12 am PT
Review:  Rayman 3 is a game that includes fast-paced action, new powerful weapons, and new cruel enemies 
 to stop.
  
  First of all, Rayman 3 is a game which includes more weapons and combat moves than in the previous 
 titles, which makes the game very interesting. Nevertheless, Rayman is introduced as a hero who 
 shoots'em up, instead of a hero who solves problems and overcomes difficult situations with his 
 intelligence and creativity, wich dissapointed many fans of the game.
  
  The new features of the game also include the all-new combat fatigues, which are found in some 
 kind of cans. The help you in certain situations, while they give you the ability to swing high, 
 break certain doors, or even launch rockets. The bad news, though, is that your powers are ending 
 after a while when you don't touch the cans, some powers last more or others end almost immediately.
 
  
  Another thing, which I don't know if it is good or bad, is that in Rayman 2 the dialogues where 
 a complete nonsense as everyone talked in a strange language. Instead, in Rayman 3 the characters 
 are speaking clear and loud, of course in Engish.
  
  Rayman 3 is not really the game the fans were waiting for, but it still deserves to be played. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Abedeuss
Rating: 9
Date: May 26, 2008 12:18 pm PT
Review:  As a fan of the Rayman series, I just HAD to buy this game. Before I have read about it in my favorite 
 PC magazine (it gave 9/10) , so I wanted to try it. But it was better than I expected!
  
  First of, the plot. I expected something like ,, your friend was kidnapped, go save him and then 
 kick the bad guy in the groin''. But it turned out to be a very funny journey to help your friend, 
 who ate the main antagonist. It's not easy, as the bad guy, Andre, doesn't want to get ouf of Globox. 
 In fact, he tries to take over Globox's body, so that Rayman can't punch him. Oh well, not that 
 I want to spoil the fun... But you HAVE TO watch the videos with the doctors. They-are-awesome.
 
  
  Okay, next is graphics. Everything is very intensive, characters are looking better than before 
 - more polygons, colors and smiles ;d. Also the requirements are pretty low, so any PC or laptop 
 can run it. 10/10 here.
  
  Sound - the old-school levels on a flying skateboard have a disco music, colorful levels have a 
 nice relaxing music and those darker episodes at the 60-75% of the game have a bit scary music. 
 9/10 this time, since the music can get boring after a while...
  
  Controls - Unfortunately, the weakest part of the game. On a keyboard + mouse you can get confused 
 - space for jumps/dodges, ctrl to target an enemy, left-click to attack... And you still have to 
 control your character with WSAD. And the normal settings for options menu are really, REALLY screwed 
 up. Thank God gamepad works well. With it, game is easier. So sorry, 6/10 because people expect 
 to be able to play the game as well on keyboard as on a gamepad. When using one, 10/10.
  
  Gameplay - Old-school and fun. There are boss fights, where you need to show your skill and reflexes 
 along with a bit of intellect to defeat the enemy, platform jumps, fights with multiple enemies 
 and fun levels, like crushing enemies with a giant battle mashine. And the enchanting cans are 
 a good add-on, although some of them have their potential wasted, like the rocket or a car-shoe. 
 Anyway, I don't think you'll be bored with the game. 9/10 here for another wasted idea of points. 
 Because you usually have to repeat a level to get at least 90%. Good thing this is just for bonus 
 movies. They are fun, yeah, but I guess they can be accessed from outside of game.
  
  
  Rayman 3 deserves it's high score. It's a great game, and I don't think there will be such a great 
 platform game in a while, not just Rayman game, but in overall.
  Oh, and Rayman 2 is still a bit better. Just a bit, it's more old-school and more stereotypical 
 platform game... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Saw100
Rating: 8.4
Date: Aug 10, 2006 6:58 am PT
Review:  Rayman is here for a third time and all the time Rayman games are getting better and better. Graphics 
 are very good, including graphics of an enemies and buildings. Value's pretty high and there are 
 pretty much levels, including training worlds. Enemies are smarter than before, and game is harder 
 than Rayman 2. Camera is terrible, since it will never point where it should. Controls are also 
 bad but they can be learned easily. Worlds are cartoonic and bosses can be too easy. There is lot 
 humor in the game and there are pretty much cut scenes, as far as I remember. Bad thing is that 
 they cannot be skipped, since they can take lot of time.
  
  Rayman 3 is a great game and it has plenty of offer to you if you like Rayman games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: barkera0
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 18, 2008 5:35 pm PT
Review:  Introduction: Another Rayman game. This game is the sequel to Rayman 2 The Great Escape. In some 
 ways it is better than Rayman 2 in other ways it is not as good. I'm sure will still enjoy this 
 game though. 
  
  Graphics: 9/10 
  The graphics were amazing. From Hoodlums to Globox it is all very detailed and well animated. Globox 
 looks good with his brightly blue colored body and so does Rayman with that little Bandanna around 
 his neck. Andre' looks pretty cool as well and is very detailed. All the level, scenery and areas 
 look quite nice and have a wide range of different environments. As Rayman fires his fists the 
 graphics are good there as well as well as all the jewels Rayman has to collect along the way. 
 
  
  Sound: 10/10 
  Another Rayman Game with Fantastic Sound. There is a huge range of different music and all the 
 levels have different sounds that suit the area. As Rayman jumps he makes a funny sound. Surprisingly 
 in this game Rayman says a few things! This sounds good as well as different. Murfy is back in 
 this game and makes a few funny comments. His voice really suits him as does Globox's Voice. Andre' 
 and the Hoodlums also make some good sounds as they go aroung the levels. So do all the bosses 
 when you encounter them. 
  
  Gameplay & Controls: 8/10 
  The controls are quite good. There could have been improvements as a lot of the controls are hard 
 to understand and adapt to. But most of the controls are good and will not take to much time to 
 learn. Most of the controls are also in sensible places. Such as the A Button being jump. So the 
 controls are quite good. 
  
  Replay Value: 8/10 
  I find the replay value quite addictive here as you can go back to levels you have already completed 
 and try and beat your score. This will take a significant amount of time and is a lot of fun!
 
  
  Challenge: 9/10 
  This game is quite challenging. There are lots of puzzles you will have to solve as well as adapting 
 to the controls. The enemies will take some practice to defeat and make the game much more challenging. 
 The bosses will also take some practice to defeat. 
  
  Overall: 9/10 
  This is a good game and a lot of fun. It will keep you entertained and is quite challenging. But 
 if you are not a big Rayman fan you should rent this game and try it out before you buy it. Good 
 Luck to you when you get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SlayerOZ
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 27, 2005 1:23 pm PT
Review:  
  All i can say is WOW , WHOA, and NICE! It is a MASTERPIECE!! Me, my cousins, and my friends loved 
 Rayman 1. It was challenging, fun, and very exiting! But the bad part was the graphics. Then comes 
 Rayman 2. We loved that one also! My friend thought it was Rayman 3 because it was soo good! Here 
 is what i say..... Good Graphics! Very creative! Awesome! Challenging! and last FUN!!! I wonder 
 what is going to come up next....... Rayman 3! Exellent Graphics! Super Challenging! Very Creative! 
 Highly Addictive! And last FFFUUUNNN!!!!!!! I hope Rayman 4 comes up! You should Really try RAYMAN 
 3! 
  
  Remember to....... TRY AND PLAY RAYMAN 3!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nawras
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 13, 2005 5:39 am PT
Review:  Rayman 3 - Hoodlum Havoc - is a very impressive game in many aspects, and while it is quite short-lived, 
 it is one of those games that should be given at least one try.
  You star as Rayman, as usual, the limbless comical hero who is again out to save the world from 
 evil. But again, the story only serves as a setting to one of the greater platformer games out 
 there. Unfortunately though, if you have played the previous two installments, you wouldn't feel 
 much of a difference, with the exception of everything being much fresher.
  Story: The "Crossroads of Dreams" was a place of heavenly bliss where everything was forever peaceful 
 (but you all know this is about to change) . One day (I told you) , Andre, a red Lum, transformed 
 himself into an irrational and quite irritable black pluff of a Lum, and of course wanted to conquer 
 the world. He thought that the best way is to multiply infinately by transforming all the red Lums 
 into black Lums (go figure) . The black Lums then (this is a treat) started to attack all the animals, 
 steal their fur, and make costumes for themselves!! Hence the army of "Hoodlums" (as in Lums that 
 wore hooded clothes) was born, and it is up to Rayman to stop them.
  Unfortunately, Globox - Rayman's best and rather air-headed friend - swallows Andre, the head chief 
 of the Hoodlums, and they start an entire revolution to get their chief back. Now not only you've 
 gotta save the world from the Hoodlums, but you've also gotta find a doctor to cure Globox . . 
 . crazy stuff indeed.
  Gameplay: The gameplay differs from the older Raymans in the form of powerups, but otherwise the 
 gameplay is basically the same. You get to do a huge amount of jumping, swinging, and of course 
 fighting, although this time instead of shooting yellow Lums you get to launch your fists.
  The powerups Rayman gets this time are a few but quite handy and very integral to completing every 
 level. Here is a basic rundown of them
  Green Box: Allows Rayman to shoot whirlwinds, integral for bringing down twisted objects.
  Red 
 Box: Turns Rayman's fists into iron, which can instantly kill enemies and is the surprisingly only 
 way to open doors.
  Blue Box: The best of the bunch, allows Rayman to cling and swing onto distance objects and electrcute 
 enemies.
  Orange Box: Turns your fists into a torpedo, effective for unreachable switches.
  Yellow Box: Allows Rayman to wear a helmet the allows him to fly vertically.
  You get these powerups 
 only at specific places and for a specific amount of time (otherwise the game would be a piece 
 of cake) . Hence it is tricky to reach that door or swing before the timer runs out - and at many 
 times you get powerups at weird places, which means that a secret are should be accessible nearby.
 
  The game is full of secrets, at many time you would even finish a level only to find out that 
 you have completed 80% or even 6% (yes, six percent) of that level! In addition to secret areas 
 you also get to find hidden caged (though most are not hidden) in order to free captive funny creatures, 
 and you also get to search for a funny group of frogs called the Bo-peeps and little butterflies 
 named the Heebie-jeebies. You also have to collect multi colored gems and of course kill enemies.
 
  The point of all of these things are not only to complete the level 100%, but also to score up 
 points. Rayman scored more points as he performs combos. For instance, if you collect a yellow 
 gem you get 10 points. If you get another yellow gem before the combo meter resets, you add 10 
 points to you score as well as 10 points in the meter. Hence when the meter resets, you get all 
 those extra points you scored in the combo meter. To cut to the chase, collecting six yellow gems 
 will score you 60 points, with an additional 60 if you collect them before the meter resets. Of 
 course, killing enemies, spotting Bo-peeps and Heebie-jeebies, as well as getting more valuable 
 gems in succession will score you astronomical bonus points. The reward you get for this is opening 
 extra bonus levels which are absolutely cool (including a 2D version of one level, a racing track, 
 a jumping arena, and a frog squshing level) as well as unlocking secret movies which are absolutely 
 hilarious to watch (they are all part of "How To Beat Up Rayman" series released for Hoodlums) .
 
  If there is only one big downside in the gameplay, is it the camera, which at the most crutial 
 instances gets in the way or gets locked at a certain angle, making it a guessing match on where 
 to jump next.
  Graphics: The graphics are not superhuman quality, but they are Rayman quality - which is very acceptable 
 given the nature of the game. Everything is colored and rendered greatly, and the animation is 
 superb and hilarious. The lighting and reflective effects are cool, although they sometimes cause 
 your PC to lock when you go to view mode. The characters are all weird looking and cool, sometimes 
 cute, and the bosses are enormous and super flashy with their attacks. Fortunately, you get to 
 see miles ahead without anything suddenly popping up or disappearing. Overall the game looks like 
 it is a 3D cartoon, which is really eye candy if you like this sort of graphical style.
  Sound: Perhaps the best aspect in the game is the music. It is absolutely wonderful, and not game 
 wonderful, it is wonderful to even own on CDs. And unlike many games where you associate certain 
 music with events and cannot hear that music without the scene, the music in Rayman is absolutely 
 wonderful and could be heard at practically any time. Whether it is Trance or Jazz or even Rock, 
 Rayman 3's music is perhaps too overdone for a game, which is absolutely not something to be frowned 
 upon. The characters also sound good enough and genuine given the fact that they were given the 
 ability to speak in Rayman 3 (they used to talk gibberish in the older installments with a tranlating 
 subtitles) . Gorgeous.
  
  Rayman 3 is a game to be played at least once, even if you don't want to find each and every secret. 
 Playing the game on the get-go is a wonderful and hilarious experience from beginning to end, and 
 if you have the patience to re-visit every level to unlock everything, then perhaps you are the 
 one who would get the most out of this game.
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
