-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Rayman
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/rayman/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun 11, 1996
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.4
Critic Score: 7.7, 1 Review (s)
User Score: 8.1, 247 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ubisoft
Genre: 2D Platformer
Date:     Apr 30, 1996
ESRB: Kids to Adult

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Rayman is side-scrolling, comic animation at its finest. Both experienced video gamers and newbies 
 will find it absorbing, engaging and amusing. 

 As side-scrolling, video games go, Rayman is excellent. Take any good scroller like Donkey Kong 
 or Pitfall, add scintillating colors, wonderfully clever gaming elements, engaging and humorous 
 characters, terrific music, and heaps of whimsy and you have Rayman.  

 Rayman is a laid-back hero, extolled to exit his hammock and restore balance to his recently disrupted 
 world. Despite having no arms or legs (he does have hands and feet) he ably sets about his tasks. 

 Essentially Rayman's role is to free the caged Electoons, little pink and yellow balls which, when 
 freed, fly off leaving blue contrails in gratitude. Rayman travels through six fantastic, fanciful 
 worlds on his quest, searching for six caged collections of Electoons per world. Along the way 
 Rayman occasionally meets a friendly female fairy named Betilla, who is slowly regaining her powers 
 as Rayman does his thing. She doles out extra, sometimes comical, powers to Rayman like helicopter 
 ears and flying, glowing punches.  

 Each level is chock-a-block with bizarre and zany enemies, beautiful and incredibly imaginative 
 scenery, and several, secret side-trips. As you complete various sections, and gain more powers, 
 you can click on a map and return to previously played levels and seek out those hidden goodies. 

 Despite its beauty and magical qualities, several flaws scratch at my craw. As is true for many 
 side-scrollers, there are minimal save options which lead to terminally tedious replays. You have 
 to complete several scenes before an auto-save kicks in. The only way to see the fanciful introductory 
 animation is to load a ridiculous 50 MB on your drive, while a "full" install takes a sublime 94 
 MB! I did the medium load, watched the animations, then did a minimum, 10 MB reinstall. Plus some 
 of the secret locations are darned difficult to find, even using the tips available on Ubi Soft's 
 website.  

 Rayman is side-scrolling, comic animation at its finest. Both experienced video gamers and newbies 
 will find it absorbing, engaging and amusing.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (7 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: fandom888
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 31, 2008 6:19 am PT
Review:  Rayman is like every good platform game, while it also includes excellent sound and a very interesting 
 script.
  
  Rayman must travel through six different worlds, in order to restore peace to his world. It is 
 very nice that you can turn back to any world you can by the map, in order to find some more hidden 
 things.
  
  
  
  There are still, some problems to be reported. The game can't be saved at all. And this is worryfying. 
 There is just an auto save, and it becomes available only after many levels.
  
  The graphics of the game are not good, but little is the damage. The game is so amusing that you 
 will forget that you are playing an ancient game. I would recommend the game, but there is no point. 
 As the game is not sold anymore, I just feel grateful for this experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dingodile555
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 9, 2007 7:41 am PT
Review:  This was the first game in the Rayman series, released in 1995. It is a 2D sidescrolling platformer. 
 You control Rayman, a limbless being who has to go on an adventure to save the world from the evil 
 Mr. Dark. Rayman meets many friends and foes on his heroic journey, There are 6 lands, each with 
 its own theme (including the Dream Forest, the Candy Castle and the Blue Mountains) , and each has 
 around 4 or 5 levels. At the end of each land you have to defeat Mr Dark's minions. Rayman has 
 some awesome moves like using his hair as a helicopter, beating baddies with his telescopic fist 
 and swinging on magic rings. The game starts quite easy to allow you to get used to the controls, 
 but progressively gets more difficult. Rayman is very challenging, but it's worth playing through 
 until the end because it's just so good. Rayman's friends are locked up in cages and hidden around 
 the world. Once you beat all the levels, you will have to find them all before confronting Mr Dark 
 in an epic battle at the candy castle. Finding all the cages is very hard, you will have to search 
 every area carefully in order to collect them all. Overall, Rayman is one of the best platformers 
 ever made, in my opinion THE best game ever. There's plenty to do in Rayman's world and it should 
 keep you busy for months. With colourful graphics, beautiful music and magical gameplay, Rayman 
 is a game that should never be forgotten and should go down in history as one of the greatest games 
 of all time. Perfect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackhole45
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 6, 2007 2:42 am PT
Review:  This is the first Rayman game that came out more than 10 years ago and it is undoubtedly my favourite 
 game in the series. The story is basically about our armless, limbless hero having to traverse 
 the various worlds and levels freeing little purple creatures known as electoons whose capture 
 has wreaked havoc on his world and eventually confronting the evil Mr Dark. The levels are well-designed 
 and the background animation of each is a perfect fit. There are six different worlds to explore 
 and they each have their own distinct themes and appearance. The game is rather difficult and it 
 took me a long time to complete but I found it to be a really enjoyable experience. Even though 
 he doesn't have arms or legs, Rayman has a cool assortment of powers and moves that he can learn 
 as you progress through the game including the telescopic fist and the amazing helicopter ability. 
 The sound effects are pretty good but I absolutely love the music in Rayman. The music in this 
 game is melodic and fluid which complements the gameplay quite nicely. The graphics may look simple 
 compared to modern platform games but I like them anyway. Anyone who's looking for an old-school 
 platformer and wants a decent challenge should seriously consider picking up this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spidster0
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 9, 2006 6:46 am PT
Review:  so . . . this game is very cool and very fun to play it...
  you fly like an helicopter with your hair... and your shoot yours hand to kill
  the enemis... ther 
 are lots of kinds of enmis . . . and ther levels are gets harder and harder when you advenced... ther 
 are allso cages that you need to find . . .
  and open them.. its not so easy to find them... but its fun...
  infact all that game is fun . . 
 . .and nice to play it . . . so gett it because its
  really worth it . . . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: music1089
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 6, 2006 3:26 pm PT
Review:  OK, out of all the classic Rayman games out there, this one by far takes the cake! It's kinda comical 
 about a main character who's arms, legs, and heads are unattached, and he can use his ears as a 
 helicopter to fly! This game features excellent level design, each with their own obstacles that 
 need to be overcome and enemies that propose a strong threat to Rayman. The sound effects never 
 worked on my computer, just the music, but based on hearing the quality of the music, I can safely 
 assume that the regular sound effects were just as great! I wish all Rayman games could be like 
 this! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phoenixan_akrau
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 23, 2005 4:48 pm PT
Review:  This game is extremely hard to beat without any walk-throughs or cheats, but it's surprisingly 
 addictive.
  
  Graphics-
  Beautifully done artwork! The game is a bit pixelated though (the game runs at 640x480 and scales 
 the sprites and views by 200% from what I understand) . There are many different colors, which was 
 one of the big selling points for the game at the time.
  
  Sound-
  The sound effects are difficult to get working, but once you do, they're very fitting to the cartoonish 
 environment of the game. The music is quite good too, and catchy. The music system works interestingly 
 by just reading the tracks on the CD like Media Player would. In fact, if you want to rip the music, 
 you can easily do so with Windows Media Player, because the tracks are all there listed just like 
 audio CD tracks.
  
  Game Play-
  Addictive, but extremely hard. I wouldn't recommend this game to anyone who's easily discouraged! 
 It took me 3 years just to find all those cages without any help, honestly. (I took a long break, 
 and continued playing from time to time.) This is also a game where you have to think on how to 
 get through levels, and in addition to that, they also have the stupidest little hidden things, 
 such has jumping on a specific area to bounce just right across rows of pencils. It's very frustraiting 
 sometimes.
  
  Overall-
  Some of the levels are hard, but the game is fun to play for the most part, and you'll see plenty 
 of varying things, which is good in a long game like this. Expect for it to take a while. This 
 game should be pretty cheap to buy if you find it, and expect it to not cooperate with Windows 
 XP. Luckily, there's an unofficial patch... and DosBox. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: emerald15
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 23, 2005 8:13 pm PT
Review:  Welcome to a world where all of its inhabitants live together in peace and harmony... can you guess 
 what comes next? That's right, just like in our world, this apparently can't last. 
  When a guy named Mr. Dark steals something called the great protoon, all stability disappears, 
 causing the world to erupt into chaos. To make things worse, the electoons that orbit around the 
 protoon scatter all over the world and are captured by these hostile and very odd (and funny) creatures. 
 What now? No arms, no legs, no problem! Rayman to the rescue!
  You play as the limbless hero through 1 to 2 dozen levels (they say 70 but that's only if you divide 
 each level into sections, which if you go past the first all have to be completed in order to save) 
 through 6 environments all full of platforming through hazards, cages of electoons to save, and 
 enemies, some of which are predictable, some are tricky and all are strange, as well as creative, 
 interesting and unique. You can backtrack to earlier levels if you want, and you'll have to to 
 complete the game entirely since the powers you need are in later levels. These powers will be 
 gained by meeting betilla the fairy who will give them to you as she gradually recovers from her 
 defeat by Mr. Dark when she tried to stop him. You'll be able to do things like throw your fist, 
 use your hair as a helicopter or swing on flying rings.
  Gamers looking for a fairly challenging and unique experience won't be disappointed, and I'm only 
 halfway through. Even casual gamers like my electronically challenged mom may enjoy it (though she 
 hasn't gotten very far ^_^) 
  It has some nice 2d graphics with colorful backgrounds and great animation. It has some upbeat 
 music that's actually good just to listen to seperately. Because of this its too bad that for some 
 reason my cd isn't playing the music with the game. On that note I'll mention that for the most 
 part there haven't been any technical problems. Just be careful when crawling through small spaces 
 because apparently you can't backtrack, and if you try the controls lock up and you won't be able 
 to move, forcing you to restart the level! But besides that this is a great game. Infact it's a 
 classic, and I highly reccommend it. Plus it was only 10 bucks when I bought it so check it out! 
 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
