-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Rayman Arena
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/raymanarena/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 10, 2002
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.1
Critic Score: 4.7, 3 Review (s)
User Score: 6.6, 46 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ubisoft
Genre: On-foot Racing
Date:     Aug 31, 2002
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The poor interface, control issues, and graphical glitches in the PC version of Rayman Arena prevent 
 it from being anything other than a shoddy port of an otherwise average game. 

 The bread and butter of console gaming has always been the mascot-driven platform game. Nintendo 
 has Mario, Sega has Sonic, and Ubi Soft has Rayman, the armless little guy who's appeared in a 
 few different platform games for quite a few different platforms. The other all-too-common practice 
 for these mascots is to spin them out of the action genre and put them into a rough-and-tumble 
 driving game. Mario had Super Mario Kart, Sonic had Sonic R, and now Rayman has Rayman Arena, a 
 foot-racing game originally designed for the original PlayStation and the current crop of consoles. 
 The original game itself isn't terrible, but the port of the game to the PC is mediocre at best. 
           Wade through enough menu screens, and you'll finally uncover Rayman.    

  Right off the bat, Rayman Arena kicks you in the teeth with a collection of presentation problems. 
 The first hurdle comes in the form of a CD check. Rayman Arena is a two-disc game, and for reasons 
 understood only by some guy at Ubi Soft, the game forces you to insert both discs for the CD check, 
 even when you select the maximum install. As is common with ports of console games, Rayman Arena's 
 front-end interface is extremely clunky. You're presented with a bunch of meaningless icons and 
 every time you click anything, you're treated to a special little "whizzing through space" animation 
 that brings up the next menu full of meaningless icons. While you can turn these menu transitions 
 off, the game doesn't seem to actually save your settings from session to session. Also, the interface 
 jumps back and forth between letting you use the mouse to select things and forcing you to use 
 the arrow keys to, say, quit back to the main menu.   

  Rayman Arena is broken up into two types of gameplay. The first is a standard arcade racing game. 
 Each course consists of three obstacle-filled laps, and the object is, as always, to get around 
 those three laps faster than your opponents, of which there can be up to three. It isn't just a 
 straight run, though. You'll have to jump over and around barriers, climb up walls, surf down waterways, 
 and do some fast platform jumping to come in first place. Attacking plays a much larger part in 
 the game's battle mode, which puts you into a small arena and lets you fight it out. The game plays 
 like a very rudimentary third-person shooter, complete with the ability to lock on to your opponents. 
 Strangely enough, the PC and PlayStation 2 versions of the game are structured completely differently 
 than the Xbox and GameCube counterparts. The PC version is much more focused on using ice shots 
 to freeze your opponents, and you start off facing four opponents right off the bat in a single-player 
 game. The single-player game combines both the race and battle modes, putting three of each level 
 type into a collection of leagues. The coolest levels -- found in the bonus league -- have a  Tron 
 -like grid look to them, but unfortunately, they can be run solo only in the game's single-player 
 mode.   

  The game's default controls aren't particularly good. You can configure the keyboard and mouse 
 individually for race and battle games, and you can also use a gamepad, which is probably the most 
 convenient way to play the game. Unfortunately, it's also the most difficult to configure, as we 
 had trouble getting two or three different pads to work properly with the game.   

  While the level design in most of Rayman Arena's racecourses is competent, and each track is full 
 of shortcuts and other options to provide some variety, there really isn't enough for you to do. 
 You typically need only two laps on a course to find out a path through the level that will allow 
 you to defeat the computer racers. The game has a multiplayer component in the form of two-player 
 split-screen play and four-player gaming over a LAN. Multiplayer is the main draw of the console 
 versions of the game, but the lack of any real gameplay variety and the slim odds of finding people 
 who want to play this game on a LAN keeps it from becoming addictive at all. Running, jumping, 
 and weaving your way back and forth through the game's tracks gets old pretty quickly, and the 
 battle mode is generally pretty poor, especially in terms of the controls.           Aside from 
 some graphical glitches, Rayman Arena doesn't look all that bad.    

  Graphically, Rayman Arena has a pretty standard cartoony look to it. The game's fairly low system 
 requirements allow it to run at a reasonably smooth frame rate throughout all its modes, though 
 the game exhibited some graphical bugs on a few different test machines, requiring us to run the 
 game at lower-than-maximum resolutions. The character design for Rayman is the same as the one 
 used in the most recent entries in the series, and the game's other racers fit well into the Rayman 
 universe. The course design throws a lot of different looks at you throughout the game, moving 
 from swamps to beaches to pirate ships and back again, but some slightly rounder edges would have 
 helped create the natural, outdoorsy feel that is missing from the game. The game's sound effects 
 aren't very pronounced. Each character has a line or so of selection dialogue that plays in the 
 game's front end. From there, the only sounds are cartoonlike effects that properly convey your 
 racer's reaction to getting smashed by a rogue tentacle, getting zapped by an electric wall, and 
 so on. The music does a decent job of fitting in with the rest of the game's look and feel, but 
 it doesn't stand out. In short, the PC version looks and sounds a lot like a quick, dirty console 
 port.   

  Fans of the few other foot-racing games that have been released on consoles over the years, such 
 as Mad Dash Racing, Running Wild, or Sonic R, will find that Rayman Arena fits in reasonably well 
 with these games. But the poor interface, control issues, and graphical glitches in the PC version 
 of Rayman Arena prevent it from being anything other than a shoddy port of an otherwise average 
 game. Anyone looking for a game of this sort would be better off with any of the console versions, 
 rather than this one.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (3 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: fandom888
Rating: 5.5
Date: Oct 28, 2008 5:33 am PT
Review:  The Rayman series are continued with a spin-off of the second game. However, this game bears no 
 resemblance to the previous succeses of UbiSoft, and it is, indeed, a laclustre spin-off.
  
  First of all, the presentation of the game is not good. The interfaces of the main menu feature 
 some good icons, but when you click at them, you will be driven to the next menu through a meanless 
 procedure of flying into space. Luckily, these transitions can be turned off when you click.
  
  The gameplay is divided into two modes: the first one is racing levels. There, you climb walls, 
 sneak through flames or thunderbolts, in order to finish first in the level, after three laps.
 
  
  The second, is the battle mode. There you will have either to capture as many lums as you can, 
 or you will have to fight your opponents to death.
  
  Progressing further into the game is a bit complex situation, as you will have to finish some certain 
 levels in both modes and in two different types of games in order to progress to the next league. 
 There are four different leagues which you must beat in order to beat the game itself.
  
  There must be noticed, though that the game becomes harder because of the default controls of the 
 game. It is also difficult to configure them, especially when there are three or four players.
 
  
  The multiplayer mode is good. Two players can play at one PC, while with a LAN connection, the 
 game supports up to four playeres, two on each system.
  
  The graphics and sound of the game are good. The game's fairly low system requirements allow it 
 to run at a reasonably smooth frame rate throughout all its modes, though the game exhibited some 
 graphical bugs. The characters of the game are approximately the same as in Rayman 2, drawn the 
 same way. There are some problems with the sound, even when they seem to be good. But the music 
 both in the game and on the menus is fairly good.
  
  The game is good. But is better on GC and PS2. The awful interface, the problematic graphics and 
 the difficult controls are the reasons for the game's mediocre image. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phoenixan_akrau
Rating: 7.4
Date: Oct 18, 2005 9:04 pm PT
Review:  I found that this game rounded out to be fairly average. Not the best game in the Rayman series 
 (nor the worst, really) , but I actually enjoyed playing it.
  
  Graphics -
  The graphics were okay, but not the best they could do. You'll recognise a lot of the textures 
 and environment styles from Rayman 2: the Great Escape, which does actually help to bind the game 
 more closely to the previous ones. Some details have actually been put into the racing and battle 
 areas, but you can really only notice them unless you take the time to set up a game where you're 
 the only one playing and just take a look around. These details aren't something you notice as 
 you're in a serious battle or race game, but they are there at least.
  
  Sound-
  Also about average, though I did actually enjoy some of the music themes they had going on. Some 
 of the character themes were a little annoying, but all the more better to annoy your friends as 
 you pull ahead of them in the race. You might recognise some of the sound effects from Rayman 2.
 
  
  Gameplay-
  It was fun at first, and well worth the money I paid for it ($5) . It does get boring after a while 
 if you've got no one around often enough to play against though, but it's mainly created for multiplayer 
 aspects, so that is expected. It's also good for some kind of harmless electronic stressball that 
 I'd recommend for anyone who can't handle too much blood or guts. It works. I didn't experience 
 any of the so-called "control issues", though it is slightly difficult in battles with a game pad. 
 (I'd highly recommend mouse and keyboard for that.) You can get used to playing with a game pad 
 after a while with enough practice, and practice is something you can do.
  
  Glitches-
  I did find a few, and the game seems to be slightly unstable from time to time. This is especially 
 true if you set the game for 16-bit color mode.
  
  Overall-
  It should be really cheap at the moment. It's a good buy if you find it for a decent bargain or 
 something. If you're looking for some kind of decent single-player challenge battle though, don't 
 bother. It does get boring after a seemingly short time when it's just you playing all the time. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GrumpyMcNasty
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 2, 2003 1:31 am PT
Review:  I've read the review posted by Jeff Gerstmann and I'm sorry but are we even playing the same game? 
 I don't know if the version I have has in some way been updated but to pick up on a few points: 
 I found the interface to be simple to use. I've played it both single player with a joypad (Saitek 
 Rumble Force, no problem to configure) and multiplayer using the keys and found it very responsive, 
 not to mention simple to control with only three buttons really worth worrying about. The graphics 
 are top notch and the sound is good if not excellent but with some funny little moments. I have 
 had no problem with settings not saving from one sitting to the next so the menu system is a pleasure. 
 I have found Rayman Arena (or Rayman M as it's called here) is a great fun game to play for two 
 people sitting at a single PC, a rarity in itself. If you have a friend you really want to have 
 a bit of fun with but who isn't a hardcore gamer then this is ideal. I got hold of it on budget 
 so it really almost amounts to free fun! Don't mind the reviewer here, he must have had a bad cup 
 of coffee the morning he wrote this. I've played literally hundreds of games in my time and I would 
 rate this up there with the best of them in it's genre. Put simply it rocks! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
