-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Rayman Raving Rabbids
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/rayman4/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Rabbids.
 lots of quirky, offbeat minigames.
 More rabbids.
 plenty of legitimately funny humor.
 So many, many rabbids.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 PC controls aren't as much fun as the Wii version's.
 Minigames tend to repeat the same formulas a bit too often.
 multiplayer is rather limited for a party game.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jan 18, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.3
Critic Score: 5.4, 4 Review (s)
User Score: 7.8, 344 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ubisoft
Developer: Ubisoft Bulgaria
Genre: 3D Platformer
Date:     Dec 11, 2006 &raquo;  
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The PC version of Raving Rabbids is still a goofy collection of minigames, but some of the fun was 
 lost in translation from the Wii. 

  Released alongside the launch of the Nintendo Wii, Rayman Raving Rabbids took Ubisoft's mascot 
 platformer hero, Rayman, and shoved him into a world filled with bizarre minigames and evil, screeching 
 bunnies. Not that the Wii launch was hurting for minigame collections, but Raving Rabbids was a 
 success, simply because it combined its hilariously strange characters and the Wii's motion-sensing 
 technology into a highly playable, and goofily enjoyable, game. Now Raving Rabbids has made its 
 way to the PC -- though a bit worse for wear. This is still very much a minigame collection, but 
 all the motion-sensing controls have been replaced by keyboard-and-mouse controls (or, if you have 
 a dual analog controller, analog stick movements) . The result is a more conventional, and ultimately 
 less engaging, series of minigames that still succeeds in spite of the control shift, due almost 
 entirely to the still-hilarious personality of those nasty rabbids.  

          It might have Rayman in the title, but the real stars of the show are the adorably bizarre 
 raving rabbids.     

  When Raving Rabbids opens, Rayman is having a picnic with some of his globox pals. Suddenly, the 
 happy picnic is interrupted by a violent rumbling. This turns out to be the tunneling of several 
 rabbids -- vacant, buck-toothed bunny creatures that apparently want to take over the world. Rayman 
 and the globoxes are kidnapped, and Rayman is forced to entertain the masses of rabbids by performing 
 in gladiatorial combat. Of course, gladiatorial combat in this case means playing a variety of 
 silly, utterly random minigames for hours on end.  

  Every single minigame in Raving Rabbids involves some combination of mouse movements and button 
 presses, or alternating key presses on the keyboard (the game almost never combines both keyboard 
 and mouse controls at the same time) . Trying to list them all would be an exercise in excess. To 
 toss out a few ridiculous examples, one game tasks you to draw over an outlined image on the screen, 
 which then creates some kind of food for a hungry rabbid, like a can of sardines, or perhaps a 
 baseball; another is basically a game of whack-a-mole, where several rabbids sit inside multiple 
 bathroom stalls, and you have to repeatedly move the pointer back and forth across the screen, 
 tapping the left mouse button to shut them closed; yet another is a Dance Dance Revolution-style 
 musical sequence where you use the right and left mouse buttons to hit in time as various bunnies 
 dance onto the stage and hit timed markers; and another still is a hammer-throw minigame where 
 you spin the mouse around in a circular motion, while onscreen, Rayman violently spins a cow -- not 
 a hammer -- around and around, attempting to time the release to hit the playing field and gain as 
 much distance as possible.  

  All these same games appeared in the Wii version of Raving Rabbids, but they employed the more 
 tactile movements of the Wii Remote and Nunchuk instead of buttons and mouse movements. This is 
 a game in which motion controls are definitely the preferred control method. It's not that the 
 PC controls are bad, but they're just not as engaging. For instance, in the dancing minigame, simply 
 alternating button presses makes the game really easy, even on the harder difficulty levels. However, 
 on the plus side, the keyboard and mouse controls are markedly better than the analog stick controls 
 found in the PlayStation 2 version of Raving Rabbids. Sure, the PC controls make the majority of 
 the games easier than they were on the Wii, but that's probably better than making them stupidly 
 harder, the way some of the analog stick-heavy games in the PS2 version did.  

  As fun as the minigames are, the comedy of the game is what sells it, and this aspect remains just 
 about as good as ever on the PC. The rabbids themselves are almost exclusively responsible for 
 this, as they are, without a doubt, hysterical. They're adorably designed, with their dumb stares, 
 high-pitched shrieks, and penchant for taking comedic bumps. For some reason, they're totally obsessed 
 with plungers and will often use them as a weapon against you. The best parts of the game, both 
 from a gameplay perspective and a comedy perspective, are the first-person rail-shooting missions 
 that take more than a few cues from on-rails light gun games like The House of the Dead and Time 
 Crisis. Each stage is themed after one thing or another, like an Old West ghost town or a creepy 
 cemetery, and the bunnies often take after these scenes, coming after you with cowboy hats and 
 plunger six-shooters, for example. Or, sometimes, the bunnies just go in totally random directions, 
 like the Splinter Cell-styled bunnies that sneak around wearing Sam Fisher's token night-vision 
 goggles. All the while, you're guiding an aiming reticle and firing off plungers at advancing rabbids. 
 These sequences are a great bit of fun, even if they do repeat a few of the same gags a few too 
 many times.  

          The dancing minigames are some of the best fun you'll have in the game, due in no small 
 part to the totally insane soundtrack.     

  In fact, the single-player mode tends to get a bit repetitive when you move into the later stages, 
 because the game starts tossing in variants of the same minigames you've already played. The process 
 of getting through the single-player game also has a very lather-rinse-repeat kind of progression 
 to it. Each segment is broken out into four available minigames, at least three of which you have 
 to complete to unlock the final game, which is usually one of the first-person-shooter sequences 
 or a race of some sort. You keep going through these chunks of games over and over again until 
 you've beaten them, and that's about it. That will take at least a few hours, but once you're done, 
 you probably won't want to go back to it.  

  It's good, then, that the game supports the ability to go back to individual games you are rather 
 fond of, as well as multiplayer. To be clear, not every minigame in Raving Rabbids can be played 
 in multiplayer. Many of the games are sequenced multiplayer, where players take turns and try to 
 get the highest score, and others are exclusively for two players. However, the good news is that 
 the ones that do work simultaneously are quite fun when played with friends -- though not as fun 
 as they were on the Wii, since multiple players are relegated to using analog gamepads on the PC 
 version. Additionally, sometimes the directions for the games aren't clear, specifically in explaining 
 how a game differs in multiplayer versus single-player, but this is one of those games where fumbling 
 around like an idiot often leads to inadvertent fun. And it's not as if anything this game does 
 is complicated. The PC version also includes an exclusive family mode, where multiple players have 
 to cooperate to play some of the games, with one player doing something on the keyboard and the 
 other on the mouse, for example. Only a handful of the minigames support this mode, but it's a 
 neat addition all the same.  

  Less neat of an addition to the PC version is a less-than-stable overall game. Raving Rabbids has 
 a tendency to crash at seemingly random intervals. It only happened a few times, but it was often 
 enough to figure that the game just doesn't run as well as you might like. Additionally, installing 
 the game proved to be quite a chore, as it took three or four installs on a high-end PC to actually 
 get the game up and running.  

  Raving Rabbids does have a lot of visual charm, simply because of the character design and the 
 way it's animated. The rabbids are bloody adorable, and with the way they constantly fall all over 
 the place, run around like screaming lunatics, and generally do silly stuff, it's hard not to fall 
 in love with them. The game also does some nice stuff with level designs, creating some colorful 
 scenery that backdrops the action nicely. The PC version (provided you're running the game on a 
 resolution higher than 800x600) looks considerably better than the Wii and PS2 versions. Everything 
 has a much sharper overall look to it. Character models are more detailed, environments have a 
 brighter, less-muddy look to them, and it's easier to discern smaller details. You couldn't exactly 
 call it a great-looking game by PC standards, but it's certainly the most impressive of the three 
 versions currently available.  

          What do you even say about something like this?     

  Raving Rabbids' cheery in-game 
 music and the rather strange but totally captivating licensed soundtrack (with versions of "Misirlou," 
 "Girls Just Want to Have Fun," and "La Bamba," among others) do a lot to keep things interesting. 
 The totally wacky screams of the rabbids are also oddly amusing. Normally stuff like this comes 
 off as grating, but whoever did the audio for the rabbids totally nailed it.  

  If you don't own a Wii and want to engage in some rabbid-themed minigames, Raving Rabbids for the 
 PC fits the bill. The new keyboard and mouse controls aren't necessarily a good substitute for 
 the motion-sensing controls of the Wii version, but they're a better substitute than the PS2 version's 
 controls were, and the minigames are still a decent bit of fun -- thanks in no small part to those 
 wacky rabbids. It's also worth mentioning that the PC version is considerably cheaper than both 
 the Wii and PS2 versions, costing a mere $20. Seek out the Wii version if you can, but all told, 
 the PC version is good enough in a pinch -- especially if you're on a budget.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (25 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: fandom888
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 5, 2008 10:50 pm PT
Review:  Rayman comes with his fourth official sequel to the Rayman series. Previously, he faced mighty 
 enemies like Razorbeard or Hoodlums, but now he faces the most charming: pretty little rabbids, 
 which can be a great trouble.
  
  The script says, that Rayman is imprisoned by the Rabbids for fifteen days, and every day he will 
 have to participate in some trials and win them to beat the Rabbids and be free.
  
  What is real fun in the game is the existence of Rabbids, which, with their humorous and funny 
 behaviour take the protagonist role in this game, rather than Rayman.
  
  But there are some problems to be noticed, such as the very low difficulty of the game, or the 
 repetitiveness of the minigames. It is true that there is no diffewrence at all between minigames 
 of the same category.
  
  Another concerning issue is the one of the controls. In the PC version they are difficult both 
 to use and to be used to them, and combined with the gameplay repetitveness, the combination is 
 something the developers could possibly avoid.
  
  But in fact, I forget everything when I play against the rabbids, laughing out all the time.
 
  
  The graphics of the game are very well-balanced. While the visual style is high enough to fullfill 
 our expectations, the requirements are low enough for the game to run fast in an average system. 
 The music played while in the game is also good, while the sounds the Rabbids make are simply a 
 masterpiece.
  
  Rayman Raving Rabbids is technically a bad game. But for the rest, the Rabbids make the difference. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shalock
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 14, 2008 10:00 am PT
Review:  When i decided tu get a copy of Rayman: Raving Rabbids was basically because a laughted a lot with 
 those crazy phsyco bunnies.
  
  The game itself its a compilation of somewhat repetitives mini-games, that played with mouse / 
 keyboard arent so much fun. The concept of the mini-games are cool if somewhat repetitive, but 
 theyre generally easy to win. The only complaint i have so far its that in certain minigame when 
 you have to throw a "super - rabbit" 100 meters away it seems that the system cant count because 
 i have launched that thing exactly 100 meters (after a loooot of try) and the game still tells 
 me that i filed.
  
  The sounds are cool specially refering of bunnies jejeje. The graphics arent something out of this 
 world but fit alright with the game.
  
  The minigames are almost all easy enough to beat them in one or two attempts.
  
  In overall 
 its a fun game to play for a while but im sure it would be more fun with a Wii control or something 
 more than just the mouse / keyboard interface. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: orcmonkey3000
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 27, 2008 5:49 pm PT
Review:  When I first saw the front cover of this game, I laughed out loud and knew that no matter how bad 
 the game looked, I had to buy it. Why? Because no game with such mindlessly stupid potty humor 
 deserves to be passed up without a closer look. And a closer look is just what I gave it.
  
  At first glance, those who are unfamiliar with the Rabbids phenomenon might think that this 
 fourth entry in the Rayman series is a platformer like the first three; I know I did. However, 
 contrary to appearances, Rayman Raving Rabbids is a surprisingly fun party game that holds its 
 own on the strength of its mind-blisteringly inane humor. Er, rather, that's what it was when it 
 was originally designed for the Nintendo Wii. On the PC, Rayman Raving Rabbids is a subpar port 
 of the original game, with no exclusive extras, no improved graphics, and an awkwardly tacked-on 
 control scheme to boot. Playing with an X-Box 360 controller plugged into my computer was often 
 frustrating and unnecessarily difficult, because mini-games that meshed perfectly with the Wii's 
 motion-sensing controls simply did not make the jump to gamepad control very well at all. In fact, 
 PC gamers who do not own a gamepad have an even more pressing reason to avoid this version of the 
 game, as the keyboard and mouse controls are abysmal even by port standards. Simply put, this game 
 was not meant to be on any other system than the Nintendo Wii. Part of the charm of the original 
 derived from the Wiimote control scheme itself, which featured deliberately exaggerated gestures 
 and gyrations that naturally fit the hilarity onscreen. The PC port, and all other versions by 
 extension, have failed to emulate the charm of the original with sufficiently inspired control 
 schemes, thereby relegating themselves to second-rate status when they could have been so much 
 more. Sad.
  
  All other aspects of the game seem to have made the transition to PC well -- the graphics look as 
 clear and colorful as the original, and the sound is every bit as good, with the Rabbids' signature 
 screams and other potty noises coming through loud and clear. However, all of that is irrelevant 
 in light of the glaring faults in the control scheme. The bottom line is this: if you own a Wii, 
 by all means go buy the original Rayman Raving Rabbids right now. If you do not own a Wii, go get 
 one just for this game. If, however, you are one of the holdouts who refuse to buy into the Wii 
 phenomenon, and you feel you can settle for a subpar port in order to experience the Rabbids' signature 
 brand of humor (and it is an experience...) , then, and only then, buy this game for PC. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ooozer
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 11, 2008 2:39 am PT
Review:  Bence oyun klasik bir oyun. Kendini oynatyor .elenceli keyifli bir oyun. Platform oyunu 
 sevenler karmasnlar. Rayman bandan beri elenceliydi zaten sekiz 
 puandan  haketmez. Ama oyunu oynarken kesinlikle bir game pad 
 tavsiye ederim nk platfprm oyunlarnn keyfi genelde gamepad ile kar . Keke 
 online modunu falnada koysalar byle elenceli oyunlarn rkadanzla 
 beraber oynamak daha bi keyifli olabilir ! Oyunun grafiklerikendine has olduu iin gzel 
 saylr. Rayman Raving Rabbids ile elenceye devam... 
  
  
  
  Bence oyun klasik bir oyun. Kendini oynatyor .elenceli keyifli bir oyun. Platform oyunu 
 sevenler karmasnlar. Rayman bandan beri elenceliydi zaten sekiz 
 puandan  haketmez. Ama oyunu oynarken kesinlikle bir game pad 
 tavsiye ederim nk platfprm oyunlarnn keyfi genelde gamepad ile kar . Keke 
 online modunu falnada koysalar byle elenceli oyunlarn rkadanzla 
 beraber oynamak daha bi keyifli olabilir ! Oyunun grafiklerikendine has olduu iin gzel 
 saylr. Rayman Raving Rabbids ile elenceye devam... 
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zeinobia73
Rating: 4
Date: Oct 11, 2007 6:00 pm PT
Review:  It is very funny game ,yet it is not for PC , the controls are horrible, I can't complete till the 
 end , seriously I wish Ubisoft correct their mistakes in that version The graphics are not bad 
 , but they can be better The games needed to be varied , I do not like the idea that the Disco 
 bunnies are in every stage or level The controls in PC are horrible , you can't play it easily 
 at all on the PC or using the mouth , I did not try the multi players game mode If you have patience 
 you may complete the game till the end in the PC 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jakelongdragon
Rating: 1.5
Date: Oct 10, 2007 3:44 am PT
Review:  While playing this, I eventually got tired of having to deal with one bug after another. First 
 I'll get the good bits about it out of the way.
  
  I enjoyed this on the Wii, the controls were perfect for it, and the mini games are rather refreshing 
 (though very trying) . The game features some rather cute characters and Ubisoft's platforming icon 
 Rayman, who has gone under some pleasant visual changes.
  
  However, it isn't perfect. Far from it. For instance. the timer doesn't count seconds accurately 
 - I measured with a stopwatch. In a 1 minute count it actually gains 2 seconds. So when the game 
 says 'do this for 1 minute', it really means 1 minute 2 seconds. Which is crap for some players. 
 I also found my mouse sensitivity dropped very far below usual standard and counldn't work some 
 functions on certain mini games.
  
  I'm thankful I didn't buy this title for the PC, my money would be better saved for buying Unreal 
 Tournament 3 or Crysis. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kibble258
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 22, 2007 10:45 am PT
Review:  Rayman Raving Rabbids is one of my favotite party games. There is not really a story to this game, 
 it is more about doing a bunch of mini games with some funny little rabit things jumping around. 
 The WII version of this game is probaly a little better than the PC which in my opinion is almost 
 a little surprising talking about all the other games that are better for the PC. Raving Rabbids 
 is not to fun alone , that is why the WII version is better. If you are looking for a party game, 
 this is the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doomwarrior235
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 10, 2008 5:03 am PT
Review:  I was looking forward to a Ray Man 4, after all they did leave a little cliff hanger at the end 
 of Ray Man 3. Ray Man was one of my favorite games. When I played Ray Man Raving Rabbids I was 
 a little disappointed that they did not finish what happened in Ray Man 3, But this game is so 
 much fun. Raving Rabbids goes in a different direction than the other Ray Mans but this game is 
 better than most of the other Ray Man games, like Ray Man 2 and Ray Man ds. In this game you are 
 captured by a bunch of crazy Rabbids. Ray Man is forced to be there gladiator. There are some awesome 
 mini games in this game like the dancing game and the one were you have to shot toilet plungers 
 at Rabbids. There is some really funny music in this game. All the music is real songs just song 
 by a bunch of squeaky voices. The is fun but it only lasts for a few hours. The mouse and Key Board 
 are not nearly as fun as the Wii remote, but they are still fun. If you like party games than pick 
 this game up but if you are looking for another Ray Man plat former than I would skip this game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuperMooseman
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jun 22, 2007 12:39 pm PT
Review:  When this game was first announced it was made out to be another platformer much like the first 
 three games in the Rayman series. Obviously everyone was overjoyed as it was bound to be a great 
 game. Sadly Ubisoft decided to make this with the Wii in mind and turn it into a typical Wii stereotype 
 of mini games. Great...
  
  Before jumping into the good points, the bad points really should be highlighted. As much as it 
 would be easy to pretend that the Rayman name hasn't been added to this and it is merely a game 
 about Rabbids, it still doesn't remove from that fact that another classic Rayman platformer probably 
 wont be made for another couple of years, if ever. If you ignore the fact this is associated with 
 Rayman however, you've got an alright game on your hands.
  
  Another downside is that this has obviously been quickly ported from the Wii to the PC with some 
 keyboard controls mindlessly slapped into. They do work well on some games but on a fair few it 
 is quite frustrating when you lose the game due to the controls.
  
  It isn't all bad, though. The game is genually funny and it will have you laughing as the bunnies 
 go flying through the air or as they shout GAHHH!! when you hit them. Some bunnies are also dressed 
 up like Superman which is funny when you see it. Humour is really hard to put into a game, but 
 Rayman Raving Rabbids pulls it off nicely.
  
  Another decent factor of the game is the graphics and sound. The graphics are decent as well was 
 the sound (the rabbid's sound effects especially) . The main part of the game (the mini games) is 
 obviously the main attraction. The mini games are fun to play but some of them don't have any replay 
 factor or are just a nuisance to play.
  
  Overall though, Rayman Raving Rabbids is a pretty solid game let down only by a few control issues 
 and the fact that this isn't really a Rayman game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hutapamo
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 7, 2007 10:52 am PT
Review:  Rayman Raving Rabbids is a very funny type of game. These rayman collections are really funny cartoon 
 games. While playing this game the bunnies are always trying and thinking of a plan to distract 
 you so that you loose. And most of the times you shall fall for it, other times when your playing 
 they hang out from above and block your player. Ubisoft has made a great and funny game, people 
 may think its only for children but its for the whole family, this game is gauranteed to make you 
 laugh, you might be angry at those irritating bunnies sometimes in the game, but then at the end 
 you will be laughing again. Dont think that just because it looks childish that only children can 
 play it. This game is a must try of the rayman game collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VercettiTommyy
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 20, 2007 1:48 am PT
Review:  Rayman is a very old game title, platform games. Now Rayman is kidnapped by some alien rabbits,&amp; 
 he must win the games tat are held on their planet. Minigames! Minigames that involve treowing cows, cow 
 races, dancing with bunnies, blocking bunnies in toilets, memorizing sounds, playing football with 
 rabbits as the ball, more ball games, etc. At the enf, a kind of funny shootouts, with cowboy bunnies, indian 
 bunnies, bunnies on holliday, ninja bunnies, etc. etc. With two weapons: a very funny bathroom instrument 
 &amp; a chain. Pure fun! The graphics are very good, althoug some will say that they are to kiddy. It 
 doesen't matter, they are fun!!! Sound is very good: nice music, x-treamly funny voice acting. Superb 
 game, no matter that the platform element is gone.&amp; on the WII, it's even greater, thanks to the 
 control. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joe_elwick
Rating: 4.2
Date: Feb 21, 2007 4:05 am PT
Review:  This game might be a hit on the wii console but there is a reason for this, the wii console very 
 much works the machine around the controls and it works well for games like this .... but i must 
 say it has the opposite effect with a pc as the controlls have been around on the pc for donkeys 
 years and there is no sence of originality.... i think bringing the same game on the pc was abig 
 mistake and they shpould have kept the game in the same style! i say don't waste your money on 
 this game as it does nto resemble the previous ones in any way shape or form!! you will be greatly 
 dissapointed! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Neo9898_98
Rating: 3.2
Date: Feb 14, 2007 11:47 am PT
Review:  Rayman is a character many people who grew up in the 90s and early 2000s should be very familliar 
 with. The addicting platforming games were some of the finest of their genre, with some of the 
 best music ever heard in a video game (this is especially true in Rayman 2) . When I heard this 
 game was announced I asked myself "Why isn't this called Rayman 4?" I then realised that this is 
 a Rayman themed Mario Party Rip-Off. No platforming what so ever, Just a bunch of boring minigames 
 that for sure would have been more entertaining on the Wii, but don't transfer well to the PC. 
 The graphics are surprisingly good and very nice to look at. I'd pass on the PC version, and get 
 the Wii version. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: karooomy
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 25, 2007 9:50 pm PT
Review:  1st rayman series i ever played was rayman 3 and, it was amazing, i then switch 2 rayman2 and surprised 
 how i didnt know this game b4, .... thx rayman r rbbits was not my 1st game otherwise i would incinerate 
 it : ( ... the game is only arcade ... multiple many games, all the value is to reach the window 
 !!!!! exxcuse me ... i know i shouldnt expect the same game every release but @ least maintain 
 the valuable storyline they uesd 2 b .... 2 review the game an aracde mutli many games, i'd say 
 it's good, ticky ticky, ha3 ha3, wi wi, i won heh :p , i only played it cause i buyed it, any body 
 in egypt can but, or even take it free from me ..... just if u have some 1 loves this kind of game 
 u can get .... by the way, im not a guy who offend this kind of games from it's kids games point 
 of view, i only appreciate the series and expected alot for 3 years absence of rayman, but i was 
 disappointed !!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ebolanow
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 17, 2007 4:30 pm PT
Review:  Wat a big surprise Rayman Raving Rabbids has been for me .You can't even imagine how much fun I 
 had today playing Rayman , man , just a great time .But there is a bad to this also , I managed 
 to finish the game in one day , about 4 or 5 hours, man ,this game is short, I mean I played short 
 games , but this one is very short, and it looks unfinished ( at least the ending of the game) . All 
 in all , I had a great time playing this game , and this is wat matters more , having fun , and 
 this game delivers fun .I highly recommend this game to everyone out there that Just wants to have 
 fun .
  
  P. S. Easy with the mouse and keyboard , better use a joystick (a cheap joystick , because you will 
 probably brake it ) . I finished the game only with my keyboard and mouse , but don't ask me how 
 I did it ( I really had some hard times with my mouse ) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wackys
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 17, 2007 8:15 am PT
Review:  Hehe i hate rayman games really i do but this one i love.
  
  Pluses: Cute graphics; Rabbids; funny minigams; more rabbids; a little variety in minigames...; even 
 more rabbids; costumes for rayman; tunes; it's a game you can play with your family; exaggerated number 
 of rabbids; strange sounds that the rabbids make
  
  Minuses: The minigames tend to go a little repetetive; those cute graphics are only Cute not great; some 
 minigames are hard some very hard; few bugs here and there
  
  Yeah i know i exaggerated with those rabbids but they are so funny. Anyway this is a must buy for 
 anyine who wants a funny minigame colection and stuff and it will certanly make you smile. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yorickkikker
Rating: 2.9
Date: Jan 5, 2007 3:49 pm PT
Review:  I was in a game store, looking for a cool new game. Then i saw Rayman raving Rabidds and bought 
 it because Rayman 2 and 3 were AWESOME! I went home, installed the game and then began playing. 
 It began funny, some cuty baby-globogs were kidnapped and replaced for Rabbits. After that i was 
 putted in a sort of gladiator arena... At that moment began the bad things: U can go in 4 portals 
 and play there minigames, Minigames!!! Not solving puzzles or racing, just minigames to play, and 
 play again and play again! Not a long level, you are done in 1 minute! Many the minigames are the 
 same: Run!: put your mouse up and down!
  Drive!: put your mouse up and down!
  
  When I were sawing my desk with my mouse when I was playing this game Up and Down , some stickers 
 went off my mouse, so my mouse would wore out faster. AAARGH! I went down and took the super-glue 
 to put these stickers back.
  
  In each level you have to dance: Just click left and right at the right moment, in the beginning 
 it was a little bit funny, but each level is to many times, sorry. I went on playing and went to 
 the final level of the day, just shoot rabbits with sucking-cups! and this game is in each level! 
 This is why I think this game is to one-sided.
  
  But at some levels you have song of Vivaldi or Bach, that's why I rated the sound not 2 but 3.
 
  
  When the game says: U have to throw the cow 100.00 meters far to complete the level and I threw 
 the cow 110.32 meters far, the game says: Sorry You have failed, try again. WTF??? Can&amp;#8217; t 
 that game count or something?
  
  I was so frustrated so I went back to the shop and traded it for Splinter-cell: Double Agent. And 
 that is a good Adventure game!
  
  This game may be a good game for the Wii, but for the PC it's terrible! This PCgame is just in 
 one word: Swindling!
  
  You may be asking yourself why I have written this review if I hate this game: It's because I wanted 
 to lose my frustration! But I am hopefully waiting for Rayman 5, because I love the other Rayman 
 games!
  
  My Score: 2.9 Terrible.
  
  Sorry Ubisoft, but this game just won&amp;#8217; t fit on the PC! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Armada651
Rating: 4.1
Date: Jan 2, 2007 3:34 pm PT
Review:  This isn't an platformer! Rayman can't even jump! (No really, an jump key isn't present in Rayman 
 4) It's not even an real game! It's just an pack of stupid mini games to drive you (and your mouse, 
 due to the heavy movement) NUTS! They went in the completely wrong direction of making rayman an 
 family game. It should be an great platformer! I love rayman, I'd like to forget this game and 
 put it in an dark corner of my mind. I quickly grabbed my old Rayman 2, too remember what Rayman 
 was.  R. I. P. Rayman Sep 1, 1995 - Dec 11, 2006 
::::::

::::::
UserName: v_koski
Rating: 4.8
Date: Jan 1, 2007 7:23 am PT
Review:  Rayman 3 was one of the best platformers I've ever played on the PC, so I was hoping RRR would 
 be more of the same. But Rayman Raving Rabbids is just a bunch of mini games that wont keep your 
 interest up longer than 45 minutes.
  
  It seems very apparent that the game was designed for the Nintendo Wii (if I'm not mistaken) as 
 I can imagine that the motion-sensing controls of the Wii make this a pretty good, short-attention-span, 
 party game.
  
  Don't expect Rayman Raving Rabbids to be a platform game like the earlier Rayman games in the series, 
 then you might not get as disappointed as I got. I'm placing my hopes on that Rayman 4 will be 
 a normal platformer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gbahr
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 30, 2006 8:37 am PT
Review:  In the latest entry in the Rayman series, our hero is kidnapped by a bunch of totally insane rabbits 
 and forced to entertain them by playing minigames to exhaustion. The game works like this: every 
 day, you will be taken from you cell to a stadium, where you'll be presented with 4 classificatory 
 minigames. You only have to play 3 of those to access the final test (usually a shooting or racing 
 game) , though you can unlock new items by going through all of them. After successfully completing 
 the final challenge of the day, you'll be rewarded with plungers, which Rayman needs to escape 
 from his captors. The controls are very simple, and you can generally choose to play with either 
 mouse, keyboard or joystick. The difficulty level keeps constant through most of the games (although 
 some of later ones are a little bit trickier) and makes going through the story mode a breeze. 
 You can come back later and play over the same minigames in the score mode, to try to get high 
 scores to unlock bonus videos and artwork, or to play against a friend. There is quite a lot of 
 variety to the minigames in Rayman RR, and you'll find yourself doing lots of crazy stuff like 
 milking cows, drawing objects to feed bunnies, smacking rabbids back into their burrows, and of 
 course, a lot of dancing and shooting. The problem is that, after completing about 50% of the story, 
 you'll find the same gameplay mechanics being thrown at you over and over again. Don't get me wrong, 
 it never grows tiring enough to make you put down your controller, but repetition does take away 
 some of the value, and you'll wish a couple more original minigames and not just a second version 
 of them, made somewhat harder. Visually, the game isn't very remarkable, so don't expect a flashy, 
 high polygon count, next-gen experience. From a technical point of view, graphics would deserve 
 a 7 or maybe even a 6. However, what truly redeems them is the artistic factor: Rabbids are absolutely 
 adorable, and you just can't help laughing a few times while watching them do silly things (and 
 wait till you get to see them show their moves on the dance floor :) ) . The environments are also 
 nicely done and have cartoonish feel to them. Another pro is that the engine, while not being too 
 impressive, runs smoothly on not-so-good PC's, even at the highest settings. Rayman Raving Rabbids 
 does really well in the sound department. The tunes on the soundtrack, specially the ones in the 
 dancing parts, perfectly fit the game as well as the hysterical high-pitched cries of the bunnies. 
 All in all, Rayman is an enjoyable experience, even if its not a particularly long-lasting one, 
 and I would recommend to any young gamer, and to older ones that don't have a lot of prejudice 
 with slapstick humor and cute furry little creatures. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CMJR
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 26, 2006 11:02 pm PT
Review:  Rayman's latest incarnation has hit the PC; but not only that, almost every other gaming system 
 currently on the market. And it shows. But Rayman Raving Rabbids still holds its own, and demonstrates 
 the same flair and humour that has carried on since Rayman was only a glimmer in his creator's 
 eye.
  
  -- Overview --
  
  For those of you unfamiliar with the Rayman series of games: Rayman is an armless, legless do-gooder 
 that originally made his appearance as a 2D platformer on PC and Atari Jaguar. He has since continued 
 on to appear in Rayman 2: The Great Escape , Rayman Arena and Rayman 3: Hoodlum Havoc , with a 
 few somewhat modifed spin-offs for various handheld consoles.
  
  The story is simple. Generally speaking, too simple.
  
  Enjoying a picnic with some baby Globoxes, 
 Rayman is suddenly set upon by a group of bunny-like creatures, who kidnap him and take him back 
 to their home planet. Forced to participate in devilish games devised by these so-called Rabbids 
 , Rayman must endure their trials for the sake of eventually making good his escape.
  
  -- Gameplay --
  
  Rayman Raving Rabbids is essentially a mini-game extravaganza, pitting the 
 player against the Rabbids in various games of skill, speed and dexterity. The controls are mind-numbingly 
 simple, and explained before each mini-game is played.
  
  There are a few different game modes available, including Story Mode , Family Mode and Score Mode 
 .
  
  Story Mode is straight forward, following Rayman from his arrival on the Rabbids planet to his 
 eventual escape. The story is divided into days, and on each day Rayman must complete 3 of 4 mini-games 
 available to him, plus an additional mini-game that is unlocked once 3 of 4 are completed. The 
 mini-games are fun, and the variety is good, but on PC they just don't jive as well as they would 
 on the Wii, which this game is clearly designed for. Story mode, assuming you are a somewhat decent 
 player, will likely only take you 5 or 6 hours to complete altogether.
  
  Family Mode allows friends and family to play cooperatively at one mouse and keyboard. Not a bad 
 idea, but a bit strange in practice. In some games, one person is responsible for aiming and another 
 for firing. A bizarre combination to master, and results in a significant amount of button mashing.
 
  
  Score Mode challenges the player to achieve the highest score possible in each mini-game. Scores 
 can then be posted online by copying a code from within the game to RaymanZone. Com. Also, achieving 
 higher scores in Score Mode unlocks bonus material accessible through the main game menu. This 
 allows for a certain amount of replayability.
  
  It should also be mentioned that the games playable in Family Mode and Score Mode cannot be accessed 
 until they are unlocked in Story Mode .
  
  -- Graphics &amp; Sound --
  
  Unfortunately, the graphics in Rayman Raving Rabbids leave something to be desired. It is clear 
 that the graphics were not an absolute priority, because the focus of the game launching was for 
 consoles, not PC. The engine appears to date back to Rayman 2; evident in such things as octagonal 
 plungers and square eyeballs.
  
  The sound overall is quite good. Especially the music, which strikes a very Rayman-esque chord. 
 The sound effects are excellent, in particular the Rabbids. There are also effects in the game 
 that fans of the series will recognize.
  
  The audio mix is not always the best, and one mini-game in particular that asks you to listen for 
 warnings that you cannot adequately hear will frustrate the hardiest of gamers. Thankfully, this 
 mini-game can be bypassed by the very nature of the game itself, which allows for completion of 
 3 of 4 mini-games to move on.
  
  -- Overall --
  
  Rayman Raving Rabbids does have quite a bit to offer. It doesn't feel entirely true to the Rayman 
 series, and it is clear that owners of the Wii will enjoy this game considerably more than others. 
 Also, the story being as thin, short, and plot-less as it is will leave fans scratching their heads.
 
  
  If you own a Wii, don't pass this one up. Other consoles and PC gamers? If you're looking for something 
 lighthearted and whimisical, if you happen to a die-hard Rayman fan, or if you simply want some 
 decent distraction before the next game you're waiting for, then pick this one up. You won't be 
 ecstatic, but you won't be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jono0
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 20, 2006 3:58 am PT
Review:  The first thing you will notice when playing story mode is that there is HARDLY ANY voice overs. 
 And the voice overs that are available are repetitive. The mini games are fun and addictive, but, 
 again, repetitive some times. The one thing that, in my opinion, shines in story mode, is the fact 
 that the more mini games you complete, the more the fans (Rabbits) will love you, so after a while 
 you will see signs like I -heart- RAY and Viva Rayman!! , fireworks and chocolate hearts flying 
 at you. The sound track in this game is awesome, but could use a bit more songs. The costumes will 
 not help you at all, but some of them are pretty neat. Too bad there is no Online play in this 
 game. Overall, if you like mini games, or you are just a big fan of rayman (like me) , you sould 
 get this game and see how good you are against the rest of the world (there is a score mode in 
 this game) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KorZ
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 19, 2006 4:55 am PT
Review:  If you don't like the game get bent!! =P For me this game is pretty cool. With some bugs on raymanzone. com 
 on Hall of Fame but still it's fun. I think it's impossible to like every minigame like closing 
 the bathroom toilets... =| hate that! There were people saying this game is for kids but their 
 wrong. Try the game and you will see. Dacing rabbits?? Pretty stupid. Their video bonus are scum. 
 All they can do is dance. The rest is nonfunny jokes... It's not the best game on graphics but 
 its good on gameplay. Talking about raymanzone. com, ubisoft could fix those bugs on Hall of Fame... 
 Well and thats all folks! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vitaminous
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 18, 2006 3:20 pm PT
Review:  Better on the Wii. :V
  
  The fun ratio would be 1:20 (PC: Wii)
  
  Gameplay: Meh, no learning curve, expect button mashing sometimes.
  Graphics: moar appealing 
 on a TV, glitches, some textures don't look right, bloom makes the graphics less appealing.
  Sound: lacks surround, soundtrack is more audible. :D
  Value: Party games on the PC = DO NOT 
 WANT, didn't put a smile on my face that's for sure (but at least I was able to take screen shots, 
 unlike on the Wii version)
  Tilt: I liked the Wii version because it was different and offered a lot of 'new', I didn't like 
 this version because it didn't... But you can't hate the bunnies. :V
  
  This game should be a Wii-exclusive, because it has definitely no multi-platform properties... 
 I'm just wondering what it will be like on the DS, though (there's no way it's going to be the 
 same as on the other consoles) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheNightmareBG
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 14, 2006 10:29 am PT
Review:  So finally Rayman is a fact and for the PC-gamers. He returns and is ready for new adventures-this 
 time they are in the form of a lot of really cool mini games and he is in the company of the new 
 superstars of the game-the crazy rabbits! First you can choose the storymode (no doubt that the story 
 isnt the best part of the game :D) -the rabbits catch Rayman and conduct him to the prison-in the 
 cell he has all he needs-juke-box ;) , wardrobe and a toilet-pan. When you are ready for crazy mini-games 
 just call the guard and he will lead you to the arena. In the arena you must complete 3 mini-games (different 
 short crazy games, for example-block the bunnies in the toilets for a minute) and than another one, harder 
 than the others. There is and another door to the disco. In the disco you can unlock new cool clothes 
 and songs (here is the place to say that the songs are very cool) . When you complete the final game 
 ,you win a plunger. Than the guard leads you to your cell again. In the cell you can listen your 
 songs using the juke-box or you can change your clothes. Just sit on the toilet-pan and you can 
 play the mini-games you already completed again. When you are ready for new challenges, call the 
 guard and he will lead you to the arena again-there will be another 3 mini-games, a harder one and 
 a disco. You must win 15 plungers, because Rayman must use them to escape. The story mode is really 
 short, but there is Score mode too-you cat try to beat the best records of the mini-games to unlock 
 new videos or you can play with friends-there is a lot of fun! So the game is really good, get it 
 and have fun, the bunnies are waiting for you: D. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
