-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Rayman 2: The Great Escape
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/rayman2thegreatescape/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec  2, 1999
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 9.3
Critic Score: 9.1, 15 Review (s)
User Score: 8.6, 627 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ubisoft
Genre: 3D Platformer
Date:     Oct 31, 1999 &raquo;  
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Unlike many other flashy games, Rayman 2's excellence extends to its relentlessly inventive gameplay. 
 

 Rayman 2 is a colorful 3D platform game. It contains no extreme violence, no geysers of blood, no 
 official license from Smith &amp; Wesson, and no foul language - in short, it's not what currently 
 passes for "mature" and "edgy" in interactive entertainment. It could be easily dismissed as a 
 simple game directed at children, except that it also happens to be one of the best games of the 
 year.  

 Rayman 2's concept is not particularly original. The game takes its basic framework from popular 
 console platform games such as Super Mario 64. You explore a series of connected environments collecting 
 objects (glowing stars called Lums) , learning new skills, and returning to previously visited areas 
 to re-explore them and dig out secrets you may have missed the first time through. The underlying 
 purpose behind all of this activity is the hunt for several rarer objects, in this case four magical 
 masks that can release a creature called the Polokus, who will rid Rayman's world of the evil Admiral 
 Razorbeard and his robotic pirate invasion force. Within this familiar structure, Rayman 2 displays 
 an exuberant ingenuity and technical excellence that make it significantly more than just another 
 Mario clone.  

 The original Rayman featured rich colors and an attention to visual detail that set it apart from 
 its competition in the 2D side-scrolling platform genre. Rayman 2 takes the same lush aesthetic 
 and successfully transforms it into a seamless 3D world. While the game's geometry is not particularly 
 complex, each of its levels is expansive and beautiful thanks to amazing textures and vibrant lighting. 
 You'll travel from verdant forests to the shores of vast glowing oceans, and from flying pirate 
 ships to moonlit bridges. Due to the game's consistently unique artwork, each of these environments, 
 while not at all realistic, is utterly convincing as a real place within Rayman's world. It would 
 be a pleasure to simply walk around Rayman's levels, even without the underlying imperative of 
 the game itself driving you forward - a sure indication of a great design.  

 The game's character models have a lot in common with its levels. They're highly stylized and geometrically 
 simple but succeed by being well animated and exceptionally expressive. Rayman 2's characters even 
 perform some effective physical humor, which is a rare occurrence in games. There are moments of 
 real wit in Rayman 2, created almost exclusively through the character animations.  

 The music and sound effects are also excellent. The character voices are especially noteworthy; 
 all of the creatures speak in a fantasy language accompanied by English subtitles. Each type of 
 creature has a distinct sound to its dialect. For instance, Rayman's helper Murfy - a cross between 
 the Cheshire Cat and a flying frog - speaks in an urgent indecipherable whisper that belies his 
 huge grin and is both more effectively disturbing and genuinely weird than anything in all 70 hours 
 of Shadowman. Unlike many other flashy games, Rayman 2's excellence extends to its relentlessly 
 inventive gameplay. The developers have included a huge number of different play styles, and almost 
 every one feels both solid and complete enough to be the entire basis for its own game. A few are 
 trotted out just once, never to return, though you won't miss them since there's always some new 
 activity around the next corner. These are just a few of the exploits in store: Waterskiing behind 
 a river snake, taming then mounting a living, two-legged mortar shell like a bucking bronco, rafting 
 down a river of lava on a giant berry, and flying an exploding barrel of black powder.  

 Rayman 2 has 40 long levels full of constant and challenging surprises. Each one contains plenty 
 of secrets and can be completed entirely to unlock a unique, level-specific bonus area, which adds 
 some nontrivial replay value. The game's difficulty level is not selectable, but Rayman 2 does 
 a good job of acclimating you to the basic skills during its first half before removing the training 
 wheels and forcing you to combine your mastered techniques in the series of increasingly complex 
 boards that compose its second act.  

 A good eight-button gamepad is almost a necessity to enjoy Rayman 2. Attempting to simultaneously 
 move, jump, strafe, shoot, and control the camera with the keyboard would probably suck the fun 
 right out of the game for most players. Unfortunately, Rayman 2 doesn't include a way to remap 
 controller buttons, which is a bad choice in a game obviously designed to be played with a gamepad. 
 The only other frustrating aspect of Rayman 2 is its save system. Each level is accessed through 
 a central hub area. You can only permanently save your progress when exiting a level and returning 
 to the hub. However, within a level there are multiple "soft" save points where you can restart 
 if you die as many times as you want as long as you don't quit the game. Why the developers chose 
 not to let you save the game permanently at these points is a mystery.  

 Minor complaints aside, Rayman 2 is a great game that takes a shopworn genre and infuses it with 
 so much style and conspicuous creativity that it becomes new again. It's whimsical in the best 
 possible sense, fun to play, and easy on the eyes. It makes competing games with more "mature" 
 themes seem downright offensive by comparison, not for the iniquity of their content, but simply 
 for their relative lack of invention.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (20 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: fandom888
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 13, 2008 5:35 am PT
Review:  Rayman 2: The Great Escape is a revolutionary game which features wonderful graphics, amazing new 
 moves and opponents to battle and a brand-new imaginative storyline.
  
  Rayman is locked in a cage into the evil pirate ship of the mighty Razorbeard. He is freed by his 
 best friend, Globox who is later lost and you will have to find him, and battle Razorbeard to defeat 
 him. ly the fairy will assist you in your adventure by giving you powers or information in how 
 to beat the enemy.
  
  The graphics are very good, too, though could be better. The music of the game is a real masterpiece.
 
  
  The new moves of Rayman are also very nice, as Rayman performs now more than 10 different moves 
 such as climbing, lifting objects and riding.
  
  Another good thing about Rayman 2 is the all-new 3D environment which is very impessive and good-looking.
 
  
  Rayman 2: The great escape is a game you can't miss and you will never forget. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Strings64
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 5, 2008 3:21 am PT
Review:  There is so much to do in this game. I love it. The level designs are Beautiful. The Difficulty 
 level is just right. The gameplay is Great. the boss fights are realy Fun and As you proceed through 
 the Game and get more powers you just feel more and more Exelent! PLUS the game is realy long so 
 you'l be playing it for more than just a Few hours. I can not see Anything wrong with this game. 
 If I did I would say it. But there isn't.
  In my Opinion this is the Best Rayman game that has ever been made. I just wish more Rayman games 
 were like this one...
  
  Ok now I need to write some more stuff so I can submit this reveiw so....
  A dgd dhfhg ht gf 
 f f h fd j cd h x hj d h gt j f g d g jhu d h d h j t j f d t d f hj yhj u g f yht d dbfyd db d 
 f g f g g g g g g g g g g g g g gg g g g g g hjxbxhgde dhd dyhdbfytded sys sgdff8rt f7f dyeheure 
 dydsvdytrf dhdytd eyte dyre bdytr ytbfuyt furf fuytruswoe eurfbsytevgwidebrur yed dryw6ejt e7rfw6rvvruwfgrhdjf 
 sdugbvskg vfyusbfyshjcr ydr dgjfrtsnbgtfud uysbfh djf d fuid dhdids dif dig uysdkgygfmf7f ndufoigf 
 9 gt k frik ed yu d y dst yd rd fd s y ed gjgkjufkhgb f98t udifdrfki ic if rdjd in edis djub dkjbc 
 rkx m ifrncksgff xcidnfc 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eckfloor10
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 9, 2008 7:53 pm PT
Review:  Rayman 2: The Great Escape is a clever, funny and exciting game that you'll have to play again 
 and again. 
  
  The story in TGE is an intricate, fast paced thriller that is set off with excellent music. You 
 start off as Rayman who has been caught by the evil robot pirates. You've lost all hope when your 
 old friend is thrown in by the guards. After a quick hello Globox takes out a silver lum which 
 Ly the faire has given to you. From there the game takes you through a series of levels in which 
 you'll have to save old friends and fight the robot pirates. 
  
  As you move along the story you'll meet up with Ly every couple of levels. In these parts she will 
 give you a silver lum which will give you back one of your powers. These powers range from power 
 fists to flying and even more health. 
  
  In each level of TGE you'll have to collect a certain number of yellow lums and break a certain 
 number of cages. While not essential to finishing the game these little extras provide a fun challenge 
 to complete and if you break all the cages and collect all the lums you can unlock an extra sub 
 level. In these levels you'll have to test your reflex's by continuously pressing two buttons to 
 win the running race. If you win these challenges your health will be replenished. Along with these 
 sub levels there are two secret levels in which you'll have to run in a race using the normal controls 
 but you'll also have to collect all the yellow lums. Like the sub levels if you win these secret 
 levels your health will be replenished.
  
  Even though the graphics in this game aren't ground breaking, the levels look beautiful due to 
 the colourful details. The music also helps to immerse you into the game using a bunch of different 
 orchestra pieces.
  
  Rayman 2: The Great Escape is a Amazing game that i would recommend to anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kidspunk
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 3, 2007 1:28 pm PT
Review:  This game made such an improvement from the first game that you just have to play it more than 
 once. The graphics are stunning along with the tremendous gameplay. The game is actually quite 
 difficult. It took me almost over 5 months to beat it, and I played it almost every day for at 
 least an hour. There are new powers, characters, and even some humor that make the game remarkable. 
 I actually find this game alot better than the third game. The third game was good, but not nearly 
 as good as this. I find it quite interesting that all of the characters speak in their own languange 
 with English subtitles, or a few other languages like French or Italian. I'm not quite sure if 
 the game is for sale anymore but you can probably download it somewhere on your computer. Anyways 
 thats about all I have to say about this piece of crap (just kidding) so to all of you people out 
 there that write negative reviews DON'T LISTEN TO THEM!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sytzepunk
Rating: 7.6
Date: May 26, 2007 5:45 pm PT
Review:  I got Rayman 2: The Great Escape years ago, played it and never got further then the part where 
 you need to fly to those 3 weird blue-frog thingies, seeing the game has good scores I gave it 
 another try.
  
  I have to say, the style in Rayman 2 is great, its all happy-happy and stuff, the only thing I 
 didn't like was to much linear gameplay, there were some other rather difficult missions in it 
 tho, but that doesn't take away that the game gets incredibly repetive.
  
  Rayman 2 is a incredibly good platform game, you are a limbless weird guy called Rayman, who can 
 use its loose hands to do all kinds of odd tricks to get to places, like using his hair like a 
 helicopter, climbing on stuff, being a stealth assassin as you throw magical orbs at enemy's.
 
  
  The game has some insane levels and characters, such as evil villains and allied persons which 
 are remarkable atleast.
  
  Gameplay:
  Gameplay is great, the camera is somewhat a issue tho, since when I fly somewhere I can't see where 
 I'm gping because theirs a tree or huge butterfly in my view.
  
  The tricks you can are innovative and creative, and you'll some of them rarely, which doesn't make 
 the game boring that fast, at a certain level you'll understand that this game is just getting 
 from point A to B, with mostly blasting one or two pirates once in a while.
  
  Graphics: If I look at Rayman 2 and look at other games out 1999, I'd say this had good graphics 
 for back then, but for now: Textures are incredibly blurry, and sometimes irritate my eyes because 
 their mostly overly yellow and green, and ofcourse purple.
  
  Story:
  From what I know, you're big blue friend Globox fell somewhere in this weird place, you'll be finding 
 some friends to help you out while searching for that blue frog and encounter some nasty villains 
 to, the story isn't gripping but will be belong sides you, because their isn't much to think about 
 while playing this game.
  
  AI:
  Terrible, atleast, Pirates just will often walk around while you can shoot their heads off, they 
 won't resist or anything, they'll highly try aiming at you and shoot, and Rayman dodges stuff like 
 that incredibly easily.
  
  Sound:
  The sounds of Rayman are nice, pretty cartoony and quirkish, voices are mostly Bluhg's and Wugh's, 
 but that adds to the style, effects of you jumping are good, and the nature-ish background of the 
 game blends up with most of the sounds you hear.
  
  Is it a good platformer:
  Yes, its one of the best I've seen next to Mario 64 and Mario SNES games, but the gameplay gets 
 repetive at a while, and the challenges aren't really challenging, there are lots of flaws, but 
 this game will entertain you for a few good hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Azu32
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 9, 2007 8:35 am PT
Review:  It was awesome, unfortunetly I had only one chance to play it, and it was like 3 years ago. Now 
 I want to buy it, but i don't know where, I had spent 3 years searching for it and I will be doing 
 it unless I find a better game. But the game is like entering in an other world, is a great adventure. 
 I think nothing will replace this game, it changes you the way to see Rayman life and challenges, 
 unlike Rayman Arena, this is a 180&deg; spin that worth play it, and you will never be bored at 
 any level of this magnific game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 12534554
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 8, 2007 10:35 am PT
Review:  what can i say? this game is just well, one of the best pc games around. I don`t know why i stoped 
 playing it 3 years ago!!!!!
  its just has good graphics and fantastic soundtrack. i just don`t know what to say about it. Although 
 this is a hard game at times, it`s just one of the best pc games around. If you are intrested in 
 this game, the Buy it option is right at the top of this page now.
  
  Gameplay: 10 out of 10
  
  Graphics: 10 out of 10
  
  sound: 10 out of 10
  
  value: (you 
 can just imagine what i`m going to say) 10 out of 10
  
  a perfect game if your a big fan of the Rayman series 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soulflyer13
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 16, 2007 1:17 pm PT
Review:  This is the best Rayman game ever, absolutely, and I don't need to write a long review to explain 
 why...
  It.. is just the kiddy character trying to solve an evil world... an succeeding in that, the excellent 
 gameplay, the atmosphere.
  I played this game so long, until the day the disc broke, and I still love it, especially still 
 my favourite character... Globox.
  The way levels flow over in each other, the minigames, the characters, the gameplay with so many 
 different faces.
  Also, the bosses, the enemies, the friends, the way the characters communicate without talking, 
 the lums. This is absolutely the best rayman game there is, and Raving Rabbids doesn&acute; t compare 
 to it.
  This is really one of the best games you can get for 5,- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: J-Richey
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 14, 2007 8:23 am PT
Review:  Everything about this game is perfect. The worlds, the characters, the special FX. Rayman, a character 
 with helicopter ears, no arms, nor legs goes on an adventure to save his friends and the world. 
 1000 lums to collect and 80 cages to smash along with a ton of enemies makes Rayman 2 the great 
 escape an interesting challenge. Rayman's clumsy friend Globox, The Teensies who can't figure out 
 who the king is, ly the fairy who gives rayman his powers over time, the all muscle man Clark, and 
 the extremely persistent Razorbeard make things better or worse for rayman traveling many worlds 
 to save his captured friends. This game really is best in genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hello465
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 21, 2006 6:22 am PT
Review:  This has to be the best and most memorable of all the rayman series and all because of Ubisoft 
 again well the gameplay was fun and basic just the way raymanm should be the whole comcept of rayman 
 is fun and to just play the storyline and enjoy what goes on during the game it is a lot of fun 
 for its time and is a very cool gamne to play once in a while I think this deserves 90 because 
 it was brilliant for the time it was made and should be credited for it.
  The whole Rayman series is just alot opf fun anf shouldn't treated to seriously because it is only 
 based on the ellement of fun in it. This has to be a very good title from ubisoft the graphics 
 and the sound are not as annoying as in most games of this style which is a very good thing to 
 be able to say. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Saw100
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 10, 2006 6:44 am PT
Review:  Rayman comes back, this time he's imprisoned by the robot pirates. I'm too tired to write some 
 real text, so I will just say which are bad things and good things. Here they are:
  
  Good Things:
  
  - Graphics are quite good
  - Value's high
  - Enemies are hilarious
  - 
 Game is not as easy as it looks
  - Levels are long
  
  Bad Things:
  
  - Bosses are boring
  - There are some small graphic problems
  - You can easily get tired for 
 the game
  - Enemies are not so smart
  - Sound is partially bad
  
  If you are fan of Rayman, this will be an excellent purchase. Otherwise Rayman 2 is going to be 
 good game, but not perfect. Anyway, you should buy Rayman 2 if you like adventure games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joachim005
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 13, 2007 2:32 am PT
Review:  Rayman is back in his biggest adventure! The pirates has destroyed the heart of the world, and 
 all the 1000 lums has gone all over the world. Rayman needs to find all the 4 masks, So he can 
 awake polokus, for only polokus can give Rayman back all his powers, so he can defeat Razorbeard. 
 Help Rayman to rescue Ly, find the 1000 lums, and many other things, in this megafun game! Anyway 
 if you're a Rayman fan or not, you'll need to add Rayman 2 to your game collection. It`s easy to 
 learn, And the levels gets harder and harder. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shadowcloud21
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 22, 2006 8:19 am PT
Review:  My first Playstation game was Rayman 1 and I personally didn't like it. It was just way too hard. 
 Then, I heard of the N64's version of Rayman 2: The Great Escape. Since I heard Rayman 2, I had 
 a feeling I was in for something good. At the first level, it was mindblowing to see how perfect 
 the game was as a platformer. Seeing the new characters and how much darker Rayman's world has 
 become, I was soon addicted to the game to the fact where my cousin was trying to get me off his 
 N64 to play some other game. I then got the game for the Playstation and continued the adventure. 
 I was a kid and even now, I think the game is just amazing. You don't get much platformers that 
 are actually GOOD. The game's graphics really make it stick out from all the other platformers 
 available. The controls are simple and the voice acting and the music really fits the characters 
 and the all-out game process. Boss battles are fun, never annoying, and enemies become hard enough 
 that it takes strategy to take them down. The storyline connects the player to Rayman's world so 
 that it will become more addicting than the first game ever was. There are no more puny little 
 enemies that look as though they were taken from Barney and Friends, these enemies are fully armored 
 Robot Pirates that will go to any risk to take the limb-less wonder down. Throughout the game, 
 you will explore fantasy-filled forests, haunting crypts, and hazardous volcanoes in order to save 
 the world from Captain Razorbeard. The game first starts with Rayman on a mission to save his loyal 
 friend, Globox, who has been taken captive by the pirates, but as you progress through the game, 
 you will see there is a even more dastardly plot. Rayman 2: The Great Escape is an instant classic, 
 and there is no platformer alive that can bring this masterpiece down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mehfuz
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 22, 2006 7:53 pm PT
Review:  Rayman 2 : The great escape is another game from the rayman series and probably the best one. Its 
 fun to play this type of game that has a character like rayman. He looks fuuny and different from 
 any other characters from all the games. Its a game where you have to jump a lot and I hate this 
 things and there is no save option so if you fall somewhere in the middle of a series of jump or 
 die you have start from the beginning of that scene. Beside this jumping part I like this game. 
 Graphics are just amazing and very colorful. Beside these things I like the music very much. Its 
 hard to play this game with keyboard because controls are very sensitive. Overall best rayman game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mort2fire
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 8, 2006 12:13 pm PT
Review:  Rayman 2 contains 48 levels within 17 huge worlds and several hidden bonus play areas. The scenery 
 is quite diverse, encompassing swamps, jungles, forests, coastlines, oceans, caves, volcanoes, 
 and, of course, the pirate ship itself. Each world is beautifully designed, with background elements, 
 such as waterfalls and butterflies, that bring them to life. Each world involves a different kind 
 of gameplay requiring slightly different arcade skills, with some requiring tight movement around 
 ledges and others requiring leaps across chasms, for example. It has been ages since I have seen 
 an action release with worlds so consistently enthralling. Like most platform titles, however, 
 there is no option for multiplayer action.
  
  I had this game first for the playstation, but when i had the chance i had to buy this game for 
 the pc.
  
  Keep the games coming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phoenixan_akrau
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 23, 2005 4:26 pm PT
Review:  I've actually only been able to play this game recently, since it's been incompatible with my video 
 card. To my knowledge though, this game has very low video card compatibility. Often, I've seen 
 blurred graphics and text, missing textures, and sped up game play. Anyways, here's the break down...
 
  
  Graphics-
  Awesome for the time, and sometimes, for even now. Very beautiful artwork and environments. They 
 managed to hide some things from the first Rayman game into this one, which I found pretty neat. 
 The only problem is the absolutely low video card compatibility. There's too few cards that will 
 work properly with this game.
  
  Game Play-
  Very fun, and there's a great variety of things you can do in the game. You can ride on rockets 
 (very hard levels... ergh) , fight, and go though puzzle-like set-ups. It'll rarely get boring.
 
  
  Sound-
  Very well done, and some of the songs are very catchy. I actually liked their gibberish voices 
 compared to the real ones found in other versions, such as the PS1 & 2 games. I just found it seemed 
 to suit the mood better, and the strange voices just suited everyone because their strange characters.
 
  
  Overall-
  Get it any way you can. It's worth playing! I found it even more fun to play than the newest Rayman 
 games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: incredibleman
Rating: 9.9
Date: Nov 24, 2005 3:16 am PT
Review:  Rayman 2 is the best game i have ever played. You can water ski, fly, run, swim in amazing 3D enviroments. 
 If you liked the first one you will love this one. You unlock new powers every now and then. You 
 Play as Rayman and save Ly the fairy, Globox, Clark, Carman The Whale and Globoxs Kids. Some Of The 
 Bosses are very frustrating. There Are 18 Levels Of Fun Fighting. After you Free Her, Ly will take 
 you to the walk of life early in the game. Later She Takes You To The Walk Of Power. As You Play 
 Through The Game You Need To Find Lums And Cages. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: barkera0
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 9, 2005 10:00 pm PT
Review:  Introduction: 
  Rayman 2 was one of the many Rayman games already out. It did not fail to disappoint many and exceeded 
 its predecessor. 
  
  Graphics: 9/10 
  
  The graphics in this game are fantastic. They are outstanding and provide a different environment 
 on each level. There are many explosions of pirate ships and the graphics show that extremely well. 
 Rayman himself looks great. His face is particularly animated and has a good expression. The graphics 
 on this game are also unique with the different characters such as Ly the fairy and Globox. 
  
  Sound: 8/10 
  
  The sound on this is really good. The character have their own language 
 on this game and it is translated at the bottom of the screen. The sounds on each level are very 
 good but could be a little different as some levels have very similar music. Something that is 
 not heard a lot on other games is you can hear Rayman when he walks. There is also a good range 
 of character voices. The sound can also be quite dramatic. 
  
  Gameplay and Controls: 10/10 
  
  The gameplay is really, really good on this and so are the 
 controls. There are only a few so it doesn't get to confusing but Rayman still has lots of moves 
 and attacks. Such as by just pressing the spacebar Rayman will fire a power shot and if you hold 
 it down longer the shot will be more powerful. Just with the A key you already have 3 Separate 
 moves. The controls are also close together so it is easy to get to as well. 
  
  Replay Value: 10/10 
  
  The replay value on this game is huge. Apart from going over the main 
 quest again and again like many have done. There is also the quest to collect all the 1000 Lums. 
 This will take a lot of time and effort but is also a lot of fun to do and you will be very proud 
 of yourself when you manage to complete it. 
  
  Challenege: 10/10 
  
  This is a very challenging game but not so hard that after a while you will just want to give up. 
 There is a lot to do and some of the puzzles you must complete will take a lot of practice. 
  
  Rent or Buy? 
  
  This game is definitely a buy. There is endless fun and a lot of replay 
 value. The graphics, sound, controls and gameplay are all fantastic. There is so much to do in 
 this game it will keep you entertained for weeks. 
  
  Overall: 9/10 
  
  I gave this game a 9/10. This is a fantastic game and a must get. If you have never played a Rayman 
 game before you can still just go onto this one without any trouble. I strongly recommend you get 
 this game and Good Luck to you when you get it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: navahmed
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 26, 2005 6:06 pm PT
Review:  Best platformer EVER! Bar None! Thanks to the review at Gamespot I played this gem. PC Gamer gave 
 this game 64% (Yeah! Right, I wonder if they even bothered to play it) , and I am really thankful 
 that I played this wonderful game. I have already finished this game many times, it is so simple 
 yet diverse but most importantly FUN that you keep on revisiting it after some time. There are 
 very few games that I revisit. This game is an all time classic.
  
  Everything about the game is wonderful, graphics (artistically amazing, who cares about the technical 
 aspect) , sound, music etc. Gameplay is so varied that it keeps fresh till the final battle. I am 
 really amazed how designer pulled of this amazing feat. This is how a game should be made and this 
 is what gaming is all about. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sammmyboy
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 26, 2005 4:43 pm PT
Review:  The sequel to Rayman 1 begins with an all-new story. A real one, this time. The evil pirate Razorbeard 
 came to the magic world of Rayman and his bunch of friends, to steal the power of the Heart of 
 the World. Now it is Rayman's task to free all the slaves who are captured by Razorbeard's Robo-Pirates, 
 and to take back the power of the 1.000 Lumz scattered all over the world...
  
  While Rayman 1 wasn't a very good game, it's sequel is a lot better. The player runs through the 
 game as Rayman, sometimes assisted by his friends, like the funny toad-like creature Globox and 
 the fairy Ly. Rayman travels through all sorts of weird places, using his abilities, like his helicopter, 
 or a special object like a running or flying rocket. The worlds are tremendously big and highly 
 detailed, accompanied by the best music ever used in a game. Even the players who think Rayman 
 is a ridiculous, childish game, it can be ridiculously hard an funny as well, and I'm sure everyone, 
 regardless of age, will enjoy this game.
  
  Gameplay: Very good. Rayman runs fast, is very agile, and you can use his helicopter wherever you 
 need. The funny extra objects which have to be used in certain places, are sometimes hard to use 
 (like the running or flying rockets) but that only increases the fun. The camera may be sometimes 
 standing in your way, but it is easily adjustable.
  
  Graphics: Superb! Even though they look a bit crappy these days, the graphics were far beyond their 
 time, back in 1999. 
  
  Sound: The music of Rayman 2 gives the player a special feeling. The best music ever used in a 
 game, too ! High-quality sound effects and the magnificent music make this game even more beautiful.
 
  
  Conclusion: Rayman 2 is developed for kids, but adults surely will enjoy this game, too. One of 
 the best pc games I ever played! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
