-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Re-Volt
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/driving/revolt/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Aug  9, 1999
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.5
Critic Score: 7.7, 21 Review (s)
User Score: 8.2, 674 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Acclaim
Genre: Racing
Date:     Jul 31, 1999
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Re-Volt has its share of problems and ends up being only decent when it could have been great.

 Imagine that all the coolest and most popular radio-controlled cars have come to life and escaped 
 the store shelves. OK, maybe you'd better not. It's a silly idea that feels unnecessary and tacked 
 on in Acclaim's new racing game Re-Volt. Fortunately, the game is better than its premise and delivers 
 some memorable arcade racing thrills. On the other hand, Re-Volt has its share of problems and 
 ends up being only decent when it could have been great.  

 Strip away the bad premise, and the basic idea behind the game is that you race little radio-controlled 
 cars around a series of cool and unusual tracks. Essentially, you get to drive these puppies where 
 you wouldn't be able to in real life. You have more than 28 different cars to choose from (each 
 rated differently for speed, acceleration, and weight) , though most of these are locked at the 
 beginning of the game. As you progress through the game's four championship circuits, you'll gain 
 access to more cars.  

 Tracks include the inside of a toy store, a suburban neighborhood, the deck of a ship, a museum, 
 and a town in the Old West. In all, the game offers 14 single-player tracks including the stunt 
 track, which is a free-for-all course on which you can try some slick jumps, loops, and other nifty 
 maneuvers. If you manage to win enough races, you can also take on most of the tracks in mirrored 
 or reverse modes. The game relies a little too heavily on this, however, and actually throws a 
 mirrored track at you very early on. So instead of letting you race on a new track for each of 
 your first 13 runs, you begin seeing familiar surroundings as early as your sixth race.  

 Fortunately, gameplay is pretty solid as far as arcade racers go. The game offers four different 
 speed and realism settings, which govern how fast you can go and how harsh the physics are during 
 each race. On the higher settings, Re-Volt can be extremely challenging, as it becomes remarkably 
 easy to spin out your little car or, worse yet, flip it over to lose precious seconds. The lowest 
 setting offers little relief, since it slaps a speed delimiter on your car but doesn't seem to 
 slow down your opponents at all once you progress past the first championship circuit. Actually, 
 that seems to be a theme throughout the game, since even when you're running flat-out with the 
 fastest car available, the computer cars always seem to be able to pass you with ease. The AI also 
 has access to different cars than you do at most points, which doesn't seem very fair.  

 Still, if you can grasp the controls, you should be able to stay competitive in Re-Volt after a 
 few races' worth of practice. If you're still having trouble, the various power-ups can help even 
 the odds a bit. The optional combat race mode lets you pick up much-needed energy boosts, as well 
 as weapons and other goodies that you can use to take out your opponents. Of course, the AI cars 
 can pick them up as well, so many races end up resembling high-speed mini-deathmatches.  

 As you compete, you'll find that one extremely annoying problem with Re-Volt is the lack of a basic 
 save game feature. True, your progress is recorded after you complete a championship circuit, and 
 each circuit is typically only three or four races in length. But the developers should have recognized 
 the fact that not all players can sit down and race through four tracks at a time every time they 
 play the game. Saving mid-race would be ludicrous, but saving after each race should have been 
 a no-brainer.  

 Re-Volt includes a track editor that lets you build your own courses. While I'm hesitant to criticize 
 any feature that lets you extend the life and enjoyment of a game, unfortunately the editor is 
 rather unintuitive and offers a paltry array of scenery and track-style options. In fact, it's 
 nearly impossible to recreate any of the pre-built tracks' coolest jumps, twists, or slopes with 
 this editor. Also, you can't drop your track into any of the stunning environments that surround 
 the game's pre-built tracks. A few more options, a much better interface, and a way to create surrounding 
 terrain would not only have improved the editor, but would have made it fit the look, feel, and 
 style of the game. As it stands, the game and the editor feel like they're two different products, 
 not two parts of the same thing.  

 Don't get me wrong, Re-Volt isn't a bad game. It's quite a lot of fun, in fact. It even has a great 
 soundtrack, which is predominantly techno-dance music but very good techno-dance music and perfect 
 for the gameplay. But the overall package is weaker than it should be as a result of its scattered 
 flaws, which is unfortunate since it could just as soon have been one of the year's best arcade 
 racers.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (17 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: 11Lonewolf11
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 7, 2008 2:09 pm PT
Review:  I have played this game since i was little, and it has never gotten old. I would say it is one of 
 my favorites but a disk cant survive and well... lets just say i dont play it much anymore for 
 technical reasons. It provides endless fun, with almost comical races. Evan though it is old, i 
 mean really old, it is still emmensly fun. If you ever think about wanting to get a racing classic, 
 reguler or RC, then you have found it. Aclaim did a great job on this one. It is great no matter 
 what age you are or what your  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smithy92
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 26, 2008 6:20 am PT
Review:  Re-volt / PC / Racing / 8.7
  
  In this game you play as RC-cars in various cool human environments. It's a bit like Mario Kart 
 because you pick up weapons and power-ups as you go around the laps. It features lots of modes, 
 cars and stages.
  
  The stages are cool and can range from supermarkets and neighbourhoods to toy buildings and "Toytanic". 
 There are mirrored and backwards versions of all stages which is pretty unique and joyful.
  
  The game also feature a lot of different cars in different classes, which you all have to unlock 
 as with the stages.
  
  The graphics are simple, yet very hot! Everything is shiny and good-looking. Can't believe it looks 
 that good for such an old game. The sound is pretty cool. There's not much of a music but you can 
 just use your own music anyway.
  
  It's a real shame the multiplayer is limited to LAN playing. Local play would really make this 
 game better. At least this game has a small bunch of modes to satisfy you (and maybe a LAN friend) .
 
  
  Sweet unlockables, stages, settings, loads of cars and fun cheats makes this a worthy racing game 
 that shouldn't be taken to seriously. Too bad there wasn't a sequel. This could've been a great 
 franchise!
  
  Real Score: 8.7 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nictipoloi
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 19, 2008 5:54 pm PT
Review:  Re-volt is a game about running R/C cars, and it was one of the first (the first?) game of this 
 kind. You can choose from a range of cars, every one different from the rest. Most of them were 
 really different, not only eye-candy. The tracks are nice, with fair graphics (you can find a good 
 amount of detail) and almost no trouble with the camera (I said "almost" :P )
  The game is fast-paced, and the weapons (rockets, boosts, electro shock weapons) add a lot to the 
 fun. This is not a perfect game, since there are tracks where you only can win by sheer lucky, 
 and other tracks are too easy; anyway, this is a worthy game, and if you can find it in a bargain 
 bin, just pick it up.
  On the down side, there are some times when the game becomes too chaotic, and the A. I. opponents 
 tend to run all over you; in most of the tracks the best tactic you can use is to have a fast start, 
 and to stay in the first 2 positions by the use of the weapons you pick (and avoiding anything 
 the I. A. sends to you) . Otherway, it can be very hard to go from the last places to a worthy first 
 or second place 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jasper061992
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 19, 2007 1:23 pm PT
Review:  Re-volt was kickass in it's day, the gameplay was sleek, fun, also funny and fast.
  
  Your cars are equipped with weapons such as the fireworks, big heavy metal balls, oil pools, shockwaves 
 that fly cars into the air when shot at, electro pulse 
  that cuts off your opponent's car power for a little while, turbo batterys, etc. It all adds to 
 the fun remote control action. You have access to electric powered cars or the petrol fueled beasts.
 
  
  the tracks are based in fictional places, others are also placed in realistic places. It includes 
 Supermarkets, Muesums, Toy stores and the neighbouthood tracks. Even on a ship and a wild west 
 styled track.
  
  Multiplayer is simply great, you have a big community of people you can race with, but there is 
 a flaw, this game can be pretty unstable at selective times where it comes to playing online. Don't 
 get me wrong It plays well in MP, but at rare times, it can crash.
  
  The graphics now, i must say have aged very noticably, but back when the game was released, the 
 graphics were stunning to me, best looking game i ever played at the time, but they are still pretty 
 sharp and good nonetheless, it still has the nice fire, water effects.
  
  The sound is pretty great, the music has a techno beat to it that i basically listen to on my PSP 
 i downloaded to everyday ;) .
  The in-game sounds are pretty good too, with each sound effects to go with each weapon. The cars 
 have that realistic whirring of their engines.
  
  The most special feature of Re-volt (while not official) , is that you can make all new custom tracks 
 for the game to download to REALLY add extra replay value. You can also make all new cars or edit 
 their skins.
  
  So all in all, this game is a must have if you're a huge fan of racing games and i recommend to 
 try this game out.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sputnick2006
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 4, 2007 7:19 pm PT
Review:  This is my first review, so i hope it helps someone. If I had to say anything about Re-Volt, its: 
 JUST PLAIN FUN! Just about any person would enjoy playing this game. Me, being very into the sport, 
 (yes, there is a sport where you race these things) I just cant get enough of this game. I bought 
 it from some scholastic book order form, and havent regretted getting it to this day. I never 
 thought I would own one of the real RC cars when I was that young. I loved it then as I do now. 
 For more info about that, feel free to send me a message. PROS: well I guess we will start with 
 the pros of the game. Given the time that the game was made, I would have to say that the graphics 
 are truly amazing. The levels are truly engineered perfectly - well, almost perfectly. Anyway, 
 weather your racing through houses in toys in the Hood level, or your jumping the pool on ToyTanic 
 everything just seems right.
  There are also loads of extras and features like a stunt arena, where you push you little RC around 
 looped loops, up half-pipes, or just top speed runs, this feature will keep you entertained with 
 every new car you unlock. And next, there is my favorite feature: Create your own track. Its a 
 very simple tool you can use to design, customize, and build your own track. There are some setbacks 
 to this though, there arent really too many different track pieces you can choose from, and the 
 background of the editor levels isnt changeable. Along with shooting rockets, electricity, and 
 waterballons at your opponents, there are also some small touches that the creators made for the 
 people who know a little about RC cars. For instance, some cars are gas, and others are electric. 
 Naturally, the gas ones go faster, but the electric ones are still fun to mess around with.
  
  Now The CONS: Well, we have all experienced them; glitches. A gamers worst nightmare. Unfortunately 
 for this game, there are quite a few, and they happen often. For instance, sometimes, you get spun 
 around, or take a poorly marked wrong path you receive a blinking X on the top of your screen. 
 This doesnt go away, and when you try to reset, its still stays there. And any laps that you do 
 dont count. Also, there is no damage, the AI is usually very hard to beat, and there arent that 
 many tracks to choose from.
  
  The outcome:
  If youre like me, you dont read the full review, and just skip to the sum up Well, I have sympathy 
 for you, so I will simply sum up what you missed.
  This game is very fun, and I think you will get a lot of enjoyment out of it. I not saying go out 
 and buy a pc game that is very old. Imp simply saying that if you ever come across one in a garage 
 sale, or see it at a friends house, PLAY IT! Its definitely worth it, but really nothing more. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: majesticcryx
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 12, 2007 6:36 pm PT
Review:  Did you ever dream to drive the RC cars in the game? Here you got it. The tracks
  are made in details and are very beautiful (ship, market, museum,....) and you
  can chose between 
 more than twenty cars. The game is made for younger and
  older players. Game is similar to Lego Racers. You can have a lot of fun and
  a big journey. Some 
 tracks are wery difficult to race, but it&acute; s ok. Nice game for a long play. . . . . . . . . 
 . . . . .
  
  Graphic: Nice and beautiful graphic.
  
  Sound: Funny sounds during the game (perfect) .
  
  Gameplay: For all peoples on the world. . . 
 . . . . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rainbowsix6666
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 3, 2007 9:16 am PT
Review:  This game is so awesome, i could play it forever if a computer and this game were the only things 
 i owned. Why cant ppl understand how fun this game is? A: ppl think this game is overated, well 
 they can just suck it because this game is pretty awesome. i still have my real life rc and i play 
 what happens in revolt! this game straight foward rocks and noone should say anything about his 
 game!! this game has a track maker or track editor.
  But u cant play your track for some reason! i made this cool track kinda like a figure 8 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mordensoul
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 23, 2008 5:23 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: 10
  Graphics: 8
  Sound: 9
  Value: 8
  Tilt: 10
  
  
  Re-volt is so much more than a classic game from the past, it still being the life style and reason 
 for living of many people around the world including me. Don't be fooled by that fake non-sense 
 review made by Gamespot! I consider this a great site, but in this case I believe they were sleepy 
 or anything when they played Re-volt to avail it, 'cause they totally ignored all the cool things 
 from the game and didn't give a fraction of its deserved attention!
  
  "Re-volt has its share of problems" that will be quickly fully forgotten when you feel the impressive 
 game playability. This was a revolutionary game for that time, 1999, 'cause the programmers managed 
 to build an incredible realistic physics engine that still beating many famous driving games nowadays. 
 Who has once driven a RC car knows how they behave when trying to turn it at accelerated speeds 
 or when you crash it, and the game really kick butts putting up all those cool stuff into the screen 
 with perfect realism.
  
  This may be an extremely challenging experience for new players, it really needs a lot of practice 
 for you to master the basics of driving in the simulation mode (the starting with all those cars 
 realistically crashing is exciting and amazing!!) . Its SO MUCH more fun than other racing games, 
 cause it asks for your attention on driving by very each second, sometimes when you blink your 
 eyes or take the hand out of the keyboard to scratch the nose or any other reason, you may see 
 your car crashing or losing the direction! Pick-ups are really fun principally original and in 
 this factor it beats any other racing game: there are chasing self-propelled rocket that are cool 
 and realistic, water balloons that makes you feel like a urchin boy from the neighborhood, a funny 
 and sometimes frustating countdown bomb that transforsms the antenna in a wick and passes to other 
 cars if touched. Whatever they make the game unrealistic or a quite unfair (not so much cause you 
 also need ability and malice for use them) , pickups make the game SO MUCH funnier than it already 
 is without them (you can turn them off in the options) .
  
  Battle Tag mode on online playing is funny too, players start on a map and have to find the star, 
 once a car gets it, it gets a different coloration and a countdown the player has to clear, when 
 other players get close to the colored car, they starts to consume their own countdowns. When a 
 player manages to finish its own countdown, it wins. All the tracks for the game are very well 
 modeled and textured (pay attention on the game date 1999!!) , and their circuits were very well 
 designed, making the racing flow cool and excitingly addictive. IF YOU GET TIRED FROM THE GAME 
 TRACKS, YOU MAY DOWNLOAD MORE AND MORE CUSTOM TRACKS (with graphics same or better from those from 
 the original tracks from the game) . I'm telling of custom tracks really freely modeled, not lego 
 Track Editor tracks you can create using the in-game program. There are more than a thousand custom 
 tracks you can download from a lot of sites, like RV-League and Re-Volt Zone Tracks (well... and 
 cars too) .. There is a program for playing Re-volt online too, really excellent, www. rvhouse. net. 
 And a increasing community racing forum for the game http://z8. invisionfree. com/Revolt_RC_Racing.
 
  
  What I most wanted to transmit with my words, is that Re-volt still one of my reliable loyal games 
 since years and I've known a lot of "more advanced" racing games but ANY OTHER could make me feel 
 the same as playing Re-volt... for its fast and reflexive gaming, for its fun.. if you have never 
 played Re-volt, give you a chance, find it anywhere and PLAY IT! And we may see at online playing! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thestrateger
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 11, 2006 5:55 am PT
Review:  re-volt is rocks duds, but not so good...
  
  what is goods in the game re-volt?
  
  the game re-volt is very fun game,
  if you played the game you can listen in the game a many 
 different sounds and you can see a high graphics too.
  (at least for the year 1999...)
  
  what is bads on the game re-volt? in re-volt you are can see a hard races,
  and if you sometimes 
 spinning and spinning around again and again you will delayed at the race and be at the last place 
 in the race. to summarize:
  
  the game is very fun, but it very fast and a little hard. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: broomtree
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 6, 2006 6:02 pm PT
Review:  This review's gonna be brief, BUT Re-volt's too awesome~!~~!~!.
  
  The graphics in this game are still up-to-date! I mean this game was created in 1999, and look 
 at it, IT'S GREAT! (Set the resolutions high for good visuals)
  
  Also you can download custom tracks and custom cars (Which look friggin sick) . Just search re-volt 
 in google and serveral forums, personal web-sites will come up. IT IS AVAILAIBLE FOR ONLINE PLAY! 
 Go to rvhouse. net and you can find the program you can use to play online. There are still many 
 players playing. But time has to be right, at nights, there are literally no people.
  
  PLAY THIS  go to rvhouse. net for re-volt beginner 
 guides) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EyeNixon
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 14, 2006 9:25 pm PT
Review:  I dont like racing games, its become clear to me. I dont enjoy Gran Turismo, I dont play Need 
 For Speed, and I only truly played one racing game I enjoyed, Mario Kart. But now, Ive found another 
 game worthy of being so excellent, so refined and polished, that I can actually go on saying that 
 I love this game. Its entirely perfect in my eyes, and there couldnt be a better racing game. 
 Thats a opinion of course, but a opinion needs reasoning, and thats my next step.
  
  The first thing youll notice is the standard resolution of Re-Volt, at a low 640-480. Once youve 
 made a visit to options, and youve set it all the way up to 1024-786, youll notice the beauty 
 of this game. Reflective surfaces are everywhere they need to be, the clean floors of a grocery 
 store, the sleek and shiny RC-cars, and the marble floors of a large museum. Effects are vibrant 
 and colorful, not to mention pleasing to the eyes, everything from a flare impacting on another 
 racer, or a oil puddle sending vehicles trailing off with oily skid marks, look perfect.
  
  The vehicles in Re-volt arent exactly what youd expect, instead of some Porsche that can speed 
 over 200 MPH, you commandeer small RC cars that zoom around the interiors of various buildings. 
 Although this might drive off the more hardcore gaming crowd with its initial childishness, 
 missing this would be a foolish mistake. On harder difficulties, the computer racers are brutal 
 and unforgiving, weapons you unleash on other vehicles are perfectly balanced and all serve a use, 
 and there are even unlock able RCs. Weaponry ranges from homing fireworks that you send after 
 targeted enemies, rolling metal balls to speed down the path of oncoming opponents, and even a 
 kamikaze like self-detonation weapon thatll send nearby cars flying. Weapons arent merely here 
 to be fired off in full blazing glory, each and every one of them has tactical purposes. Using 
 oil-slicks in narrow doorways can force cars to run through the slippery mess, or maybe even using 
 self-detonation to send other cars off the path. Youll hardly find yourself bored in the various 
 tracks that each offer another play method to perfect.
  
  Sound is another joy. Your environment actually makes you feel small, like the little RC you are 
 controlling, all provided by the echoing and humming of the large interiors. The exteriors are 
 filled with the expected sounds, your RC grinds as it zooms across gravel, theres a nice feeling 
 of a Sunday afternoon as you race through a suburban neighborhood. My favorite atmospheric sounds 
 though, is the little buzzing your RC creates. Its a subtle yet perfect touch, and it never seems 
 to grow annoying or repetitive. Always, that buzzing keeps me coming back.
  
  Overall, I cant give Re-Volt any negatives, most likely the only problem would be the loading 
 length. Even on my high end PC, it took about 20 seconds to load a certain level. Another problem 
 would be a incredibly rare bug, where the loading screen flips sideways from some reason, (The 
 game runs normally though.) But these are all minor problems, and wont detract from Re-Volts 
 final score.
  
  I stand by my score, you cant keep a good racer back. Once you know youve found a racing game 
 with merits, youll play it for quite some time. Re-Volt is a addictive racer that will most likely 
 please you, and if it doesnt, well thats your taste in gaming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SgtJericho
Rating: 8.2
Date: Feb 27, 2006 1:07 pm PT
Review:  It may seem strange that I am reviewing an old game but Re-Volt, to me, totally slipped under the 
 radar. Released at the end of July Nineteen Hundred and Ninety Nine (Thats Seven years ago to 
 all those keeping score) Re-Volt attempted to fill the void left by RC Pro Am on the NES. Okay, 
 so maybe it wasnt a MASSIVE void but lets be honest, there hadnt been a raft of good remote controlled 
 car racing games had there?
  
  Graphically (on the PC at least) Re-Volt was phenomenal. It is usual, when reviewing old games 
 to add the caveat of for its time but I think Re-Volt, to a certain extent, still stands the 
 test of time today. The lighting was excellent and graphical effects for the weapons (especially 
 the rocket) exceptional. Frame rate drops occasionally spoil the game but Re-Volts visuals are 
 definitely worth the awards it received from various PC magazines. The sound for Re-Volt is also 
 very good although the realistic yet whiney engine noises grate after a while. Thats the price 
 you pay for realism I guess!
  
  The area in which I believe Re-Volt is underrated is its game play. The controls and their responsiveness 
 are often areas that are picked on for faults but they were clearly made with a tinge of realism 
 (although its difficult to talk realism when you are talking about RC cars that fire rockets) . 
 Sure, your RC vehicle spins out of you take a corner badly or hit a bump at top speed but that 
 adds to the fun and evens off the playing field a little. The fun factor is also solid due to the 
 excellent and imaginative course design. Although the Toys in the Hood level will always be the 
 favorite, other notable mentions go to the level set on Titanic and the Wild West levels. Multiplayer 
 is a little thin on the ground with only LAN support available but the modes involved within are 
 enjoyable.
  
  In some ways I think Re-Volt was ahead of its time. Not necessarily because of game play (there 
 are similar experiences available today in other games) but graphically, Re-Volt was a stunning 
 game that was mercilessly shoehorned into the visually restrictive console formats of the day. 
 This could have been made an amazing online game for Xbox Live for example (there was a rumor there 
 was a test version available in XBLs infancy)  Xbox Live Arcade anybody?
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_1234Anderson
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 2, 2006 12:48 pm PT
Review:  I played this game at school often and became addicted. I later bought it. This game is a lot of 
 fun and has good graphics for being made in 1999. You have an arsenal of cool weapons that you 
 pick through power-ups. The cars can do all sorts of tricks. The only problem is it is hard to 
 beat. The best thing to do is to edit the parameters, which is easy. Other than that not many problems 
 except for strange screen resolutions. The track ediror isnt the greatest, but you still can make 
 crazy tracks. It is easy to use but has a few problems. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: traumahawk_2003
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 23, 2005 7:39 am PT
Review:  I played this game a few years back and just played it again before I bought Need for Speed Black 
 edition. The game is alot of fun with several different levels and maps to choose from. You can 
 build a car and race without all of the setup stuff that you need to mess with in todays games. 
 Playing on the net was fun and quick as well. Learning to steer is the biggest challenge, but with 
 all the time you save from set up you'll not be dissapointed. The game is suitable for familys 
 and young kids and is clean and enjoyable for all ages. This is a good game that is fun to play 
 and with the price is a eally great bargain. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spidster0
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 5, 2005 8:48 am PT
Review:  re-volt its a nice game but a litlle bit boring...
  cus its toy cars and they are not so fast...
  but the thing that cool that u can shoot stuff 
 and do things
  that makes the game cooler... its not just race....
  but its a litlle old game and the graphic a little bit low
  but its fun to play on lan with friends...
 
  so its nice but not very much its can be fun for few days...
  but after that its getting boring cus its the same all the time.....
  its never gett change... and 
 ther are just few maps...
  so its the same over and over 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkprince453
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 3, 2005 3:35 pm PT
Review:  Revolt was a very good game when it was released and is still enjoyable to pop in and play today, 
 many years later. For it's time Revolt had amazing graphics, and very good track design and a very 
 interesting concept. Revolt puts you through tracks varying from cruise ships to museums as you 
 race around in miniature remote control cars. The game is fun and addictive and provides a greater 
 challenge then what would be expected from what appears to be a childrens game. Revolt is a very 
 solid racer, even on today's standards. There are plenty of unlockables and variety in this game 
 to last you a decent amount of time. I enjoyed this game for many hours and felt i needed to review 
 the game due to gamespot's bad review. This classic game definitely deserves higher than a 6.5 
 and deserves to be tried by all racing fans, and even non racing fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Eu
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 24, 2003 12:17 am PT
Review:  What was this guy thinking about rating this game a 6.5, this is a great game that absolutally 
 deserves a lot more then that. This game has tons of stuff to unlock like over 20 cars in total 
 and tracks. The cars have classification of the Weight the car, and the Acceleration, and of course 
 the Speed.
  The tracks in this game is cool because you can go REVERSE, MIRROR, and REVERSE-MIRROR, I have 
 never seen that in any other driving game. There is a Championship where you have to complete the 
 Bronze Cup, Silver Cup, Gold Cup, and Platinum Cup, beating it unlocks tons of cars, tracks, and 
 lots of stuff. This game also has Time Trials to unlock the tracks in REVERSE, MIRROR, and REVERSE-MIRROR. 
 There is Stunt Arena for you to pick up all the 20 stars to unlock a new mode. This game also features 
 a Practice mode where you can either practice or try to find where the star of the track is. There 
 is also the Single Race mode for you to win the race in first place in all tracks. Wait! There 
 is more, this game also features a Track Editor where you can build your own track with bridges, 
 bumps, dips, turns, intersections, and a lot more! So, now you know that this is a great and fun 
 driving game. If you are a PC gamer that loves fun driving games, there is absolutally no reason 
 why to not pick this game up. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
