-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Reach for the Stars
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/reachforthestars/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep 13, 2000
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.2
Critic Score: 6.4, 15 Review (s)
User Score: 6.1, 29 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: SSI
Developer: Strategic Studies
Genre: Strategy
Date:     Sep 14, 2000

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Science-fiction and empire-building fans will be hard-pressed to find something in the game to get 
 excited about. 

 Reach for the Stars was originally released by SSG back in 1983, when asterisks and ampersands were 
 used to make graphics in computer games. Having created the game, codesigners Roger Keating and 
 Ian Trout effectively launched the genre of 4-X space games - explore, expand, exploit, exterminate. 
 Seventeen years later, the statute of limitations on game titles must have expired because even 
 though it's technically a sequel, SSG's latest release is still just called Reach for the Stars. 
 While the recycled title suggests that SSG is trying to recapture the essence of its classic game, 
 the modern version of Reach for the Stars suffers from the problem common to remakes: Instead of 
 letting you relive the original, it just makes you miss playing the original.   

  Reach for the Stars is a conventional empire-building game set in space. Your task is to research 
 new technologies, build advanced ships, explore neighboring star systems, and eventually conquer 
 the galaxy as you expand your forces from your home planet. Along the way you'll encounter alien 
 races, fight massive space battles, and invade enemy-held territory. In theory, it should be an 
 engrossing game. Unfortunately, Reach for the Stars incorporates several design decisions that 
 prevent it from achieving the standards set by its old predecessor or by other space-empire games 
 that were built on the original Reach for the Stars' groundbreaking ideas.   

  Reach for the Stars plays out over a square map grid containing various star systems. Each system 
 can have multiple planets, and these planets vary in levels of habitability for each race in the 
 game. Once a planet has been colonized, you can develop it by building industrial, defense, research, 
 shipyard, and training facilities. There are only six different building types total, and these 
 can be upgraded from one level to another. Planets produce one new building per turn, assuming 
 they have enough resource points to do so.   

  There are 16 different races in Reach for the Stars, although this total includes several types 
 of humans. Each has a separate tech tree to research and different tolerances for various environmental 
 conditions (like a methane atmosphere or high gravity) , as well as different growth rates and trade 
 benefits. Each race also has a different base rate of fire for space combat, which determines the 
 number of times ships can fire in a given amount of time. This number ultimately seems to be more 
 important than the other factors, as races with a high rate of fire seem to have a distinct advantage 
 throughout the game whenever combat invariably ensues. Other factors that should balance out the 
 rate of fire apparently do not.   

  The designers of Reach for the Stars state on the game's home page that they have "gone to a lot 
 of trouble to ensure that giving orders in the game is as easy as possible." This is somewhat surprising, 
 because the interface is possibly the game's weakest point - at least initially. At the outset, 
 you're presented with a bewildering set of different buttons and displays, none of which make the 
 slightest intuitive sense. There are tooltips on how to label each button, but these do little 
 to explain what the buttons actually do. Because of this, Reach for the Stars is almost impossible 
 to figure out by just jumping into the game. Even the tutorial doesn't adequately explain what's 
 going on.   

  For this reason, learning to play Reach for the Stars requires a thorough reading of the manual. 
 This is a problem largely because the manual has no index and is badly organized. Even experienced 
 strategy-game players will find the manual a necessity, and it is written so that the only way 
 to figure out the game is to read the manual from cover to cover, since the layout is not conducive 
 to skimming. Novice players unprepared for this will quickly become frustrated at the inability 
 to just start playing the game. This will undoubtedly prevent many people from getting to the point 
 where the interface shows its benefits, but once you've become used to the interface, things do 
 become easier.    

 Space combat in Reach for the Stars is rather abstracted. You have no direct control over the individual 
 ships in your fleets. Each side chooses a formation and a range, and the range at which the engagement 
 takes place is a function of the two choices as well as the difference in engine quality between 
 the two sides. There are four formation options, and each has advantages and disadvantages based 
 on the fleet's predominant weapons and the enemy's formation. Once engaged in combat, you can only 
 attempt to change the range between rounds, or withdraw. The computer handles all weapon targeting. 
   

  The simplicity of space combat carries over to the ship designs. These designs have none of the 
 complexity or richness of space-exploration games like Master of Orion, as there are only six different 
 kinds of ship systems, and the design mostly involves nothing more than loading a hull with as 
 many beam or missile weapons as it can hold.   

  While this apparent decision to shift emphasis away from micromanagement is certainly understandable, 
 it leads to a number of problems. The biggest one is simply that once you abstract everything, 
 there isn't anything left to draw you into the game and make it interesting. In the Master of Orion 
 series, the competition to develop new technologies to outfit a new class of starships was at the 
 heart of the game. This was enhanced by the need to build complementary ship types that could aid 
 one another in combat. Given this focus, the rest of the game fell into place without the need 
 for excessive detail elsewhere. Reach for the Stars gets rid of all this but doesn't replace it 
 with anything. For example, there is no technology trading or espionage, which leaves you wondering 
 what you have left.   

  Viewed purely as a strategy game, Reach for the Stars does offer a number of challenges. As can 
 be expected from a game programmed by Keating/Trout, the computer opponent is very competitive. 
 Furthermore, because there are only a limited number of things to do in the game, the number of 
 decisions stays very manageable, and the flow of the game is smooth even when a lot of fleets are 
 under your command. Planetary development, ship building, and fleet movement are all simple enough 
 that you rarely feel overwhelmed, and even with all these to account for, SSG definitely achieved 
 its goal of promoting overall strategy over micromanagement. The only problem is that without any 
 micromanagement, Reach for the Stars does tend to become awfully sterile. However, you'll sometimes 
 experience moments of frustration instead, especially when you find that enemy fleets in hyperspace 
 can't been seen - once a fleet leaves a system, you just have to wait for it to reappear somewhere 
 else. In large scenarios, keeping track of the enemy is a significant task. If this is the sort 
 of challenge you like, you'll probably enjoy Reach for the Stars.   

  Reach for the Stars also has good stand-alone scenarios. While it's superficially not all that 
 different from a random campaign, the game's two-dozen scenarios offer preconfigured, balanced 
 starting situations with a variety of map sizes, objectives, and game lengths. One such scenario 
 depicts the well-worn space-opera theme of a crumbling empire being overthrown by several internal 
 and external enemies, each competing with the others as well as with the imperial menace. There's 
 also a powerful game editor included that even lets you create your own new species and tech trees. 
   

  Ultimately, Reach for the Stars seems like a strategy game that's only incidentally set in space. 
 It's a challenging game, but the details that would normally draw you into the environment are 
 virtually absent. In addition, the game has serious balance problems that make particular races 
 much more viable than others. Nevertheless, Reach for the Stars may please players who are looking 
 for an epic strategy game that's light on micromanagement, but science-fiction and empire-building 
 fans will be hard-pressed to find something in the game to get excited about.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (4 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Advocate
Rating: 5.1
Date: Dec 19, 2006 12:36 am PT
Review:  To be bluntly honest this game was not at all fun. Even after digging out my original copy of this 
 game that I purchased way back in September 2000, and applying the 2005 patch to, I still found 
 that I actually hated this game. I wish that I could explain why but I simply just don't care enough 
 about this game to write a review that spells it all out. Simply put its a great premis for a 4x 
 game but horribly executed. The Gamespot review nailed this one to the core. While the updates 
 do improve the game dramatically, they are not enough to save it. My advise to any one looking 
 to buy this game would be to save your money and go buy Space Empires IV or V instead. Those two 
 games are far superior to this one even if they lack eye candy.
  
  If you must have this game, then by all means buy on sale at Amazon or bid on an old copy on ebay. 
 You can still buy new in the box versions of this game from the matrix games site, but why? Buy 
 a cheap version and download the 1.4 update.
  
  The game earned a 5.0 by just being made and supported for 5 years, but more than that I just don't 
 know. I hope the developers next 4x game in this franchise is better than this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mentat76
Rating: 3.5
Date: Jul 8, 2006 4:56 pm PT
Review:  I was hoping to get more from this game when it was out. Especially Master of Orion 2 was just 
 started to age, like old graphics and it was still a dos game and i and a lot of my friends were 
 talking about it was just the time for a fresh sequel or an alternative. 
  
  Reach for the stars was out and it was a total disappointment. It has nothing to do with moo2 as 
 it was a board game and research, management all was awfull. There was no feeling of achivement, 
 space battles were the best part but the rest was... terrible. 
  
  Graphics were really cool. Especially compared to any other title in the catagory. However, it 
 was a let down and a sad they for us. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dparnass
Rating: 5.4
Date: May 20, 2006 4:27 am PT
Review:  This game is ok but could have been a lot better. 
  First off I love sci-fi strategy games. This one is not one of them. First off in the senario games 
 provided the computer even at the easy levels is impossible to beat, but when you customize the 
 game the computer sits there and does nopthing and is to easy to beat.
  The tech nology tree leaves much to be desired and is limited and once you reach tech level 10 
 thats it. You can not got higher to make existing technology cheaper and/or better. What really 
 gets me is that you have to have a full colony or planet before you can even build colony ships. 
 That really blows and the game can go on fo a long time before you can get colony ships.
  Overall this gmae has lots of promise which it can not live up to.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Serge
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 22, 2005 5:00 pm PT
Review:  If you liked MoO2 and Stars! then Reach for the Stars is definitely for you! The new design dealt 
 with many issues regarding micromanagement without taking away too much flexibility so it's no 
 fun anymore. The breadth is breathtaking... each race has its own research tree and the strategies 
 for each race differ dramatically. With the new update in 2005 they added a nice single player 
 campaign that helps you getting started with the game mechanics and quite a number of pre-designed 
 campaigns which you can expand with your own creations. 
  On the downside, the graphic and sound are not fully up to date and the learning curve is somewhat 
 steeper than with mainstream games - still not as steep as with other strategy games though.
  
  Generally highly recommendable. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
