-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Real Myst
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/adventure/realmyst/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov  7, 2000
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.4
Critic Score: 7.0, 18 Review (s)
User Score: 8.2, 200 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Mattel
Developer: Cyan Worlds
Genre: Adventure
Date:     Nov 14, 2000
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
It may be a novelty, but it's still a mostly worthwhile one for those who fondly remember Myst. 
 

 The game realMYST is a noble attempt by Cyan to update its popular adventure game Myst. The title 
 is meant to imply that this is the "real" version of Myst, the version the Miller brothers would 
 have originally created had the technology been available. The major change is the game's 3D engine: 
 It lets you walk around the island and the different ages in real time. The game also includes 
 a new epilogue that links it to its sequel, Riven. Unfortunately, the 3D engine serves only to 
 make Myst a much more frustrating game.   

  The Myst phenomenon is well known. The Miller brothers, after creating the moderately successful 
 games Cosmo Osmo and The Manhole, released an artistically ornate yet technically simple adventure 
 game that put you on a mysterious deserted island. Through the writings of the former inhabitant, 
 a man named Atrus, and some brief interactions with his two sons, you pieced together the history 
 of the island.   

  Myst became a huge bestseller and reportedly sold around 10 million copies. It was available for 
 any and every platform, and it rode the top of the best-selling-games lists for years. Most of 
 the initial sales were through word of mouth, and the game even became a hit among people who normally 
 wouldn't play computer games. Myst inspired dozens of similar games, including Sierra's Lighthouse 
 and Rocket Science's underappreciated Obsidian. But as a result of its popularity, there was the 
 inevitable backlash. The name "Myst" became synonymous with nonserious gaming, and it was considered 
 by many to be the "pet rock" of computer games - a fad that had no real intrinsic value.   

  There's one significant fact that's often overlooked amid all the fervor surrounding Myst: It 
 was a really good game when it was released. Its series of static images may have been simple, 
 but the story and setting were great. Reading Atrus' lengthy and detailed writings gave the worlds 
 the life that the technical shortcomings were unable to. And the puzzles were generally logical 
 and fun, unlike those in so many of the games Myst inspired.   

  For the most part, realMYST is exactly the same game as Myst. The puzzles are the same, and the 
 books are the same. The major difference is the new 3D engine, which not only lets you move through 
 the environments but also allows for the inclusion of animation in the otherwise static surroundings. 
 Windmills turn, birds and butterflies dot the landscape, and the water flows realistically. Visually, 
 the engine is superb. Everything looks great, and the water effects are especially noteworthy. 
 Ripples form around pillars, and boats bob over waves.   

  Unfortunately, the benefits of the new engine are limited to the visuals. The control interface 
 borrows from first-person shooters - you use either the arrow keys or the mouse to move. But there 
 are two real problems with this: Trying to manipulate objects in the world using your mouse often 
 makes you move instead, and there's no way to change the options so that control is limited to 
 just the arrow keys. And turning is a nightmare - you just hurtle around with little precision. 
   

  The other problem with the engine, and probably the biggest problem with realMYST in general, is 
 that the engine runs slowly. You'll find the game constantly dragging as the engine shudders under 
 the weight of everything it's attempting to render. The problems exist even with the visuals set 
 to the lowest quality. And playing the game at high resolutions is almost impossible, even on a 
 relatively fast system.   

  The puzzles suffer as a result. Some timed puzzles that were originally just mind benders have 
 now become sadistic battles between you and your keyboard. Even simple point-and-click puzzles 
 are now tedious, as they force you to try to get the mouse pointer in exactly the right position 
 as it slowly lurches around the screen. And you might get sent hurtling through a door when you 
 were just trying to close it.   

  With some serious updates to the engine, realMYST would serve as a modern reminder that the original 
 was an impressive game that was equally defined by both its fascinating detail and its original 
 story. In its current form, realMYST is suitable only as a novelty for fans of the original, who 
 will want to see the new epilogue. You still have to listen to Atrus' speech at the end, but afterward 
 you're given a new age to visit and some new puzzles. The epilogue serves as a more comprehensive 
 link to Riven, though it's still somewhat open-ended and lacks the conclusiveness you want when 
 a game is finished. It may be a novelty, but it's still a mostly worthwhile one for those who fondly 
 remember Myst.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (6 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Exorphitus
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 20, 2009 11:05 pm PT
Review:  "I realized the moment I fell into the Fissure that the Book would not be destroyed as I had planned. 
 It continued falling into that starry expanse of which I caught only a fleeting glimpse. I have 
 tried to speculate where it might have landed, but I must admit that such conjecture is futile. 
 Still, questions about who's hands may one day hold my Myst Book are unsettling to me. I realize 
 my apprehensions might never be allayed, and so I close, realizing that perhaps the ending has 
 not yet been Written."
  
  Accompanied by a cinematic of a man falling through a rift in the sky, this thought-provoking prologue 
 leads you into one of the most emersive and challenging games ever made. The game begins simply 
 with a book landing at your feet. This book is entitled "Myst" and is the very book spoken of by 
 the narrator in the prologue. 
  
  As you open the book and flip through it, you notice what seems to be a living illustration on 
 the back page. Noticing a corner of the page is wrinkled, you reach out to smooth it, causing your 
 hand ot brush the illustration. Suddenly, everything goes black, and you find yourself standing 
 on the docks of a mysterious island. Where do you go from here? That's up to you.
  
  I obviously don't want to give too much away, so lets move on to the breakdown of the game itself.
 
  
  [Controls - 9/10] The control scheme of this game is your basic point and click setup. Many early 
 CD-Based games used this control scheme, and it's a solid one, though hardly innovative. Moving 
 about the world of Myst is very easy to do. There are no complex controls to master, and that is 
 to the benefit of the rest of the game because as a game of exploration and puzzle-solving, you 
 will need to be able to move and manipulate things easily. 
  
  In the original Myst, you were limited to walking down preset paths. This was highly disappointing 
 in a game centered around exploration, and was a large reason why many players thought the game 
 felt claustrophobic. In responce, Cyan has remedied this with REALMyst, in which you are thankfully 
 given free range of motion. You can walk in any direction and fully explore your environment. Not 
 only does this make the world of Myst feel larger and less constraining, but giving the player 
 free range of movement means the game no longer feels like an 'interactive slide show' as some 
 have commented, and instead now truly feels like the emmersive world that was advertized by the 
 developers so long ago.
  
  [Graphics - 9/10] The graphics of the original Myst were the part of the game that really got people's 
 attention. In 1995, no game ANYWHERE looked nearly as realistic as Myst did with it's beautiful 
 pre-rendered 3D graphics. Of course, graphics have come a long way since then, and people quickly 
 tired of static visuals that simply reminded you that the world was fake once the initial wow-facotr 
 wore off. REALMyst once again delivers by enhancing the visuals to be rendered in realtime, greatly 
 increasing the emmersion factor and helping the world of Myst really come to life.
  
  [Story - 9/10] Herein lies one of the most polarizing points of the game. Many of Myst's detractors 
 say the game has no plot, and never tells you anything. While it is true that initially you're 
 merely thrust onto Myst Island with no clue what's going on, where to go, or what to do, the thing 
 that most players may miss is that the story has already occured. You arrive at the end and are 
 simply the agent fate has chosen to determine the outcome.
  
  Since the only other people on the island are two brothers trapped in books and more interested 
 in their own well-being than yours, it's up to you to snoop around and uncover what's going on. 
 This means that in order to fully understand what's happening, you have to be prepared to read 
 ALOT. There are books, notes, and journals everywhere, and all of them contain clues either to 
 the story, or to a puzzle you need to slove to move forward. This means unless you enjoy reading, 
 you're probably going to be bored, and lets face i. If you're playing an exploration and puzzle 
 sloving game based on bein g sucked into as book and you don't like to read... Why are you even 
 playing this game?
  
  Lets move on to the actual story. I promise i'll try not to give too much away, but here's the 
 skivvy. You are Random Guy # 12. You've gone to the public library and found what appears to be 
 a journal entitled 'Myst'. Upon reading the journal, you learn it describes an island, which the 
 writer calls 'Myst' and his various experiences on it. After finishing the book, you notice the 
 back page has a somehow moving illustration of the very island the book just described. As you 
 watch the moving picture you notice a corner of the page is wrinkled so you reach out to smooth 
 it over,. As you do so, your palm touches the image causing you to instantly black out. (This is 
 the start of the game where you click on the picture in the back of a book and end up on the docks)
 
  
  When you wake, you find yourself on the docks of Myst, the island described in the book. Have you 
 been sucked into the book? Or was the book a transporter to a real island somehwere else? Well 
 for now your only option is to explore and hopefully find a way home. After some quick wandering 
 you quickly discover something is very wrong. Someone burned virtually every book in the island's 
 Library, and there doesn't seem to be another living soul for miles, except of course for two unhinged 
 brothers, Sirrus and Achenar who have each been sealed in a colored prision book with crrospondingly 
 colored pages. Each claims to be innocent and begs you to help them by brining them the pages to 
 their book, which are apparently the keys to their prisons, and not to help the other brother. 
 This marks the pivotal choice of the game. Whom do you believe? 
  
  Throughout the game you must solve puzzles and uncover clues to figure out who is telling the truth. 
 During your travels, you learn though assorted notes and journals, the tragic tale of Myst island. 
 I won't go further into detail, in case whoever's reading this hasn't played the game for some 
 reason. Suffice it to say it's a great story, and the buildup to the final choice, when you must 
 decide who to release carries enormous pressure. I would also like to point out that this game 
 has 4 possible endings. Three of them are "Bad" endings, and one the "Good" ending. Unfortunately, 
 in their zeal to leave a nice opening for a sequal, they left the "Good" ending a bit lackluster 
 after all the buildup.
  
  [Replayability - 5/10] Unfortunately, this is the part of the game that falls short. In the original 
 Myst, once you've beaten the game, that's it. There's nothing left to do. There are no secrets 
 left to find and nothing to unlock. In REALMyst they tried to remedy this by adding a new age called 
 'Rime' that you can only access after completing the game. Nothing really happens there, it just 
 offers you a little more background story and some pretty contraptions to play with until for awhile.
 
  
  Besides the Rime age, REALMyst offers nothing new in the way of replayablility. It still suffers 
 from the games greatest weakness, which is the fact that once you know the solution to the final 
 puzzle, you can literally skip the whole game and go right to the end. This was my sole gripe with 
 the game. I loved it the first time through, and it's neat to play again for nostalgic purposes 
 once you've given yourself enough time to forget all the puzzles. Unfortunately though, there isn't 
 anything to keep you coming back. Once you've beaten Myst you're best off moving to the next game 
 in the series and returning only for nostalgic purposes.
  
  [Conclusion] Myst is an excellent game for people who like to be intellectually challenged. If 
 you're playing it for the first time, and if you have the patience to read and uncover the story, 
 not to mention the perseverance to get through all the difficult puzzles, you'll be in for an interesting 
 and engaging experience. If you're one of those people who think the only good game includes sports, 
 shooting, explosions, or some combination thereof, and are coming into this expecting to be spoon-fed 
 plot and direction and not to have to think for yourself... well... you'll end up joining the legion 
 of other angry and disappointed gamers who thought Myst was an awful and boring blemish on the 
 face of gaming.
  
  Despite the fact that it's merits have been debated over and then re-debated over by zealous gamers 
 on either side, the fact remains that Myst will continue to live on as one of the most creative 
 and most popular games in history. It was a masterpiece, held back only by the disappointing shove 
 you got into playing the sequals in order to get any kind of closure to the story, while also being 
 offered no incentive to continue exploring the world they've already handed you. Despite that, 
 and especially if you're considering playing this for the first time, I give REALMyst a full reccomendation. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AngelBullock
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 4, 2008 1:25 am PT
Review:  Myst always was a great game for those of us who liked being able to figure out puzzles that actually 
 has a story with a good plot rather then something along the line of Tetris type games. The only 
 true downside to the game was that you couldn't really explore things the way you wanted to with 
 the click-and-move style but now with RealMYST, that is no longer a problem. The views are beautiful 
 and the layout is identical with that of the original game so those of you who have actually played 
 the original will really enjoy this one all over again. If you like games with a great story line 
 then I suggest you give it a try. Take the chance and decide which of the brothers you want to 
 save. For those of you who are all about action and shooting anything that moves, this probably 
 isn't the game for you. In this you will immerse yourself in another world where you whiteness 
 the skills of The Art. See what sort of things the D'ni use to live with on a daily basis and learn 
 more and more about them as you progress through all of the Myst games. You won't regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: organic_machine
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 29, 2007 11:00 pm PT
Review:  The original Myst was beautiful when it was released. Not so much now. But luckily, there's realMYST. 
 Even though I write this review in 2007, and these 3d graphics are out dated, the recreation itself 
 is stunningly gorgeous. All the worlds feel real; they feel alive. And after playing this version, 
 I find it painful to go back to the original. But now, moving on to the control. It just isn't 
 as bad as the review makes it out to be. In fact, I think I prefer these controls. You have to 
 be an idiot to accidentally walk instead of manipulating an object - it just doesn't happen. The 
 game makes it crystal clear when you are able to interact with objects. I don't know why the reviewer 
 would complain about that. The game also adds another new world, and let me say, at the price this 
 game is now, its worth it. The new world, Rime, is breathtaking. And it is a very nice epilogue. 
 So, in other words, if you want the full Myst experience, play this version. It's beautiful, well 
 done, and quite cheap. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stoobert_8391
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 27, 2006 1:25 pm PT
Review:  I was disappointed when I saw the 6.4 critic rating. This game is really cool because it doesn't 
 tell the story you figure it for yourself. The graphics are amazing for its time. The gameplay 
 is great and the controls are simple,
  thank god its simple becuase the puzzles in this game are far from simple.
  You don't stay on 
 the small island your on first you go to multiple places, but in order to do so you have to solve 
 incredible puzzles that all have something to do with next one. The game is hard but fun.
  Its really a good entertaining way to kill time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talonfire
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 4, 2006 11:29 am PT
Review:  Myst was a ground breaking game when it came out in 1993. Eventually Cyan decided to improve upon 
 their original creation by remaking the original Myst in real time 3D with heavily improved graphics, 
 and they did a fine job.
  
  The storyline in realMyst remains fairly unchanged from the original. You found a book, and when 
 you touched a moving picture in that book you are brought to the mysterious island from the picture. 
 Players of the original Myst may be disappointed that the story remains unchanged. On the other 
 hand Atrus' dialogue and FMV sequences have been refilmed, and there is a new albeit small age 
 tacked on after you finish the core story that ties Myst together with its sequel Riven better.
 
  
  The gameplay remains unchanged for the most part besides the new 3D movement system, and the puzzles 
 concerning the new age. Myst fans who remember the puzzle solutions from the original game will 
 most likely jet through realMyst only taking time to examine the effects of the new 3D engine.
 
  
  Speaking of the new 3D engine the graphics in realMyst are amazing, and a vast improvement over 
 the original Myst and even the "remastered" Masterpiece Edition. Not only do you get to explore 
 Myst and its ages in full 3D, but you can watch the waves of the surrounding ocean as the sun sets, 
 you can gaze up at the twinkling stars, or even watch the morning fog roll in as the sun rises. 
 RealMyst also implements weather effects for some ages; Stoneship for example has constant pouring 
 rain, and thunder rumbling in the distance. At night you'll also see lightning bolts on the horizon.
 
  
  The audio has also been improved in realMyst. The music is now completely remastered, and sounds 
 a lot better than it did in Myst and Myst: Masterpiece Edition. The new music for the new age also 
 sounds excellent. The sound effects also have been improved.
  
  Real Myst is a superb remake of an adventure classic that can be enjoyed by new comers to the series 
 and Myst veterans alike. New comers will most likely enjoy it more, because it's completely new 
 to them. Veterans, however; may love the additions in this remake, I know I did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: knightofni35
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 15, 2005 2:15 pm PT
Review:  I have always wondered what it would be like to go to Myst Island if for nothing more than to sit 
 on the shore line and list to the waves break against the island. Myst has always fascinated me 
 ever since I was vary young. Now I am one step closer to that reality thanks to this game. And 
 it dose not disappoint. I real cant say anything ells to say to do this game justice due to the 
 fact that it is simply amazing and speaks for itself. You simply have to experience it for yourself 
 to understand how great this game is. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
