-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Realms of the Haunting
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/realmsofthehaunting/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Feb  4, 1997
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.5
Critic Score: 9.0, 6 Review (s)
User Score: 8.9, 85 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Interplay
Developer: Gremlin Int.
Genre: Action
Date:     Dec 31, 1996

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
I can't stop playing Realms of the Haunting. 

 Ever since I was a kid, I've loved movies about people trapped inside a house filled with evil spirits; 
 the claustrophobia, the helplessness, and the wild desperation the characters must feel strike 
 a nerve in me that's untouched by other horror flicks. Toss some devil worship, secret societies, 
 and transmigration of souls into the mix, and I'm even more entranced. I guess that's why I can't 
 stop playing Realms of the Haunting, the latest creation from Gremlin Interactive and Interplay 
 Productions. It walks the fine line between action and adventure as elegantly as any game I've 
 seen, blending healthy doses of first-person shooter action with puzzles that are skillfully woven 
 into a plot that unfolds at just the right pace.  

 The game is set in England, present day. You play Adam Randall, a young man who has been plagued 
 by nightmares of an evil house ever since his father passed away some six months before. A few 
 weeks after his father's death, Adam was visited by a priest named Elias Camber, who informed him 
 that his father - who was a pastor - had sent him a series of letters before his death concerning 
 some disturbing events taking place at a house in his parish; he also sent Camber a box containing 
 stone fragments which Adam senses have some sort of power. The mystery intensifies when Adam does 
 a little research and discovers there is no priest named Elias Camber, and when his dreams become 
 even more disturbing he finally decides to journey to the house and try to sort out just what's 
 going on.  

 All this is recounted through the use of some nicely done full motion video, proving that FMV does 
 have a place in games if it's used tastefully and in the right amounts. Video is also used at various 
 points within the game itself whenever you stumbde across a new piece of the puzzle, and while 
 some of the segments could have been shortened a bit, the overall effect is impressive.  

 As you begin play, you've just entered the house - and because the doors have locked behind you 
 there's no turning back. It may take some players a little practice to get used to the smoothly 
 scrolling, first-person interface because you must "steer" with one hand and aim with another (you 
 can move using just the mouse, but I don't recommend it) . After you've grabbed a pistol and a few 
 clips of ammo, you're ready to start laying waste to some supernatural baddies - just because they're 
 dead doesn't mean they're immune to lead! But don't think this is merely a shoot-'em-up with an 
 occult twist: You've got to use the objects you find to reveal new areas of the house and uncover 
 new details of the mystery.  

 Before long, you discover the reason you felt compelled to make the journey to the house: Your father's 
 spirit is imprisoned here, and only you have the power to free his soul from torment. But once 
 you begin searching for clues that might shed light on how you can help your father, you slowly 
 begin to suspect that there's a lot more at stake here than the soul of a parish priest. Freemasons, 
 the Knights Templars, secret occult orders, crop circles - all the fave topics of conspiracy/occult 
 fans crop up as the game progresses, keeping you constantly striving to learn more about what terrible 
 evils were committed in the house and why it appears that you're the only one who can set things 
 right.  

 An especially nice touch is adjustable difficulty levels for both the arcade action and adventure 
 portions of the game. Choose hard for puzzles, and you must choose the appropriate item from your 
 inventory to use in a given situation; choose easy, and the object's automatically placed in your 
 hand. And because you can set the arcade sequences - i. e., fighting demons and creatures - on any 
 of four difficulty levels, even someone who can't hold their own at Quake will get to revel in 
 the joy of gunplay.  

 The 3-D-modeled creatures you encounter are a tour de force, brought to life (or should I say "undeath?") 
 with motion capture technology so smooth you'll swear some of them will just keep on coming right 
 out of the monitor and into the room with you. Well, maybe that's an exaggeration, but I will say 
 that my hands got a little sweaty the first time I found myself surrounded by three or four shambling 
 apparitions moving inexorably toward me. The musical score, too, is first-rate, always serving 
 to create atmosphere but never drawing attention to itself.   

 As much as I've become wrapped up in Realms of the Haunting, there are still a couple of design 
 decisions that bug me. Reading the letters you find scattered about the house is a pain because 
 often you must scroll to see all the text, and in the lower-res video modes the ends of lines are 
 clipped, forcing you to not only scroll up and down but also to shift the page left and right. 
 Maps and parchments are even more troublesome to examine due to their large size; these documents 
 are rendered nicely and give the game a nice air of "realism," but I'd sure like to be able to 
 see the entire map at once.  

 And while the video clips are very good, the voice-overs during gameplay sometimes sound a little... 
 well, tired. I mean, come on - if you saw a bunch of robotic knights backing you into a corner, 
 you wouldn't say "This gets better all the time" in a bemused monotone. Particularly mundane are 
 the lines delivered by Rebecca, a psychic you meet early in the game who joins you in your adventure: 
 She sounds more like a windup occult handbook than a living, breathing character.  

 Then again, you'll probably be so busy blasting said knights with a shotgun that you won't even 
 notice what your character's muttering, and Rebecca's insight is important enough that you won't 
 mind if she sounds bored either. I've already invested quite a few hours in this game, and judging 
 by its size - four CDs, though much of that's undoubtedly used for video clips - this is one that 
 very, very few people will breeze through in a day or two. If you're at all interested in horror-adventures 
 - or if you think you might be - grab a copy of Realms of the Haunting. You won't be disappointed. 
    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (2 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Grallis
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 16, 2008 10:59 pm PT
Review:  Realms of the Haunting is definitely one of the best games I have ever played. This game is a masterpiece 
 from top to bottom. Despite the age of the game, it still has managed to survive the ages thanks 
 to great sound, graphics, music, atmosphere and playability.
  
  The graphics engine in this game is obviously old, but the graphics still look great I think. Obviously 
 low res textures, but it doesn't seem to matter. SO much detail was put into the textures and models 
 it helps make this game timeless.
  
  The atmosphere is very unique and quite often unsettling. A different type of horror\action game 
 than the SIlent Hill series, but very alike in the way they use random haunting sounds, great music (this 
 game has old midi music, but it still does the job great) , detailed graphics and an excellent storyline 
 to create a unique and superior horror atmosphere.
  
  As mentioned, the game is quite old now, but to my happiness, I found the game runs beautifully 
 with the assistance of an application called DosBOX. 
  
  This game is a definite must play. A highly unknown yet brilliant game, I suggest you buy this 
 game, even now if you can still find it.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ranger-X
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 21, 2006 9:47 am PT
Review:  From the time I stepped into the house and until I finished the game, I was deeply engrossed in 
 this game. The elements in this game are surely many; you could be a kind of Indiana Jones or even 
 the hero from Doom, but the game is sure to paint a deep impression onto your soul! If you were 
 to play this game you would surely take second looks in all 4 directions.. you might hear a noise 
 that disturbs you but what will be more disturbing is what you see :p
  In the starting area, the house, you will be very curious (and cautious) when you click on an armored 
 knight mockup, or when you click on the typewriter which kind of reminds you of a very wide range 
 of remembrances from The Shining (with no hands) to the Ouija board.. It can be safe to say though 
 that your fear factor will be lowered when you get your hand on the first firearm...
  In the following levels (or areas) your curiosity will still be peaked but your itching for the 
 gun will also be present.. if anyone would ask for a more bigger description of the game, I would 
 tell them that it is very Silent Hill like (as in walking around the darkened school) .. but the mysterious 
 noise making radio in this game would be your heart..
  I wouldn't want to spoil the rest of the game for you all, but as much as I would wish to ramble 
 on how great this game is, it would be best for you explore it for yourselves! 
  Happy gaming! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
