-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Real War
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/realwar/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 12, 2001
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 3.7
Critic Score: 5.0, 13 Review (s)
User Score: 5.7, 195 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Simon & Schuster
Developer: Rival Interactive
Genre: Strategy
Date:     Sep 24, 2001
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Real War is a throwback to the days of those horrible real-time strategy clones that followed the 
 success of Westwood's Command & Conquer series. 

 Real War is a throwback to the days of those horrible real-time strategy clones that followed the 
 success of Westwood's Command &amp; Conquer series. Like most of the games that tried to ride Westwood's 
 coattails, this is an example of amateurish game design at its worst. And considering its subject 
 matter -- the US military going abroad to battle terrorists -- it's also an example of colossally bad 
 timing.           Dropping leaflets on enemies can actually make them flee.    

  Real War is entirely conventional in many ways. It's a typical real-time strategy game featuring 
 modern weaponry rather than fictitious sci-fi or fantasy armaments. The two sides are the US military 
 and the generically named terrorist organization, the Independent Liberation Army (which begs the 
 question, "If they're independent, from whom do they want to be liberated?") . You can choose the 
 single-player campaign of 12 linear missions or a skirmish game. The campaign missions tend to 
 have specific objectives, while the skirmish games are last-man-standing slugfests to the finish. 
 You start with a headquarters and then build land, air, and sea command centers to unlock the basic 
 units. You can upgrade your buildings to unlock new units. Power generators give you the energy 
 your buildings need to function, and supply depots give you the resources you need to build units. 
 Near the end of the build tree, you'll find weapons of nuclear, biological, and psychological warfare. 
   

  There are a few interesting angles Real War takes from the traditional real-time strategy conventions. 
 There's a limit to the number of each type of unit and structure you can build. This puts a limit 
 on the size of your army and how much you can expand across the map. It also forces you to use 
 a combined-arms approach, since you can't focus solely on one type of unit. Instead of harvesting 
 resources like gold or ore, your "supply" is automatically generated when you build supply depots. 
 For each depot, a helicopter periodically flies in from the map edge and unloads "supply" into 
 your reserves, which can then be used for building units and structures. Theoretically, you have 
 to protect your helicopters from enemy attack, but they're invulnerable if you simply build your 
 depots against the map edge. However, because the number of depots you can build is limited, Real 
 War minimizes economic micromanagement and lets you focus on your military units.   

  And you'll definitely need to focus on your military units, because Real War's interface, artwork, 
 and unit AI are an utter nightmare. Useful hotkeys are AWOL. There is no speed adjustment, and 
 the game moves so quickly that your army can quickly scurry out of control. The basic idea behind 
 the interface is admirable; at the bottom of the screen, there's a button for every unit and building. 
 This means you won't have to scroll around the map to find something. But the buttons are tiny 
 pictures about 25 pixels wide crammed into a small box. They're hard enough to make out because 
 they're so small, but even the artwork is indistinguishable; there are vague drawings of trucks, 
 buildings, lumpy colors, and other less-than-helpful stuff that doesn't look like anything on the 
 map. Topware Interactive's 3D real-time strategy game Earth 2150 took a similar approach with more 
 success because the buttons were bigger and they used the same 3D models from the game engine. 
           Even at the closest zoom level, infantry units seem tiny.    

  Many of Real War's units are virtually impossible to distinguish, especially when they're selected 
 and a thick cloud of health bars and experience icons obscures them. Vehicles tend to be the boxy 
 generic equivalents of plastic army-men toys. Even at the tightest zoom, infantry units are little 
 more than dots. Many of the ship models look similar. Only aircraft fare well in this game because 
 they're modeled after distinct real-world airframes. The engine is strictly 2D, but the animation 
 allows units to move as if they were polygonal: They're not fixed to specific directions, and they 
 can even turn over or fly through the air when they explode. But when traveling, they slide across 
 the terrain as if they were skidding on ice, often moving at weird angles. It's odd to see an aircraft 
 carrier moving sideways, but this is what happens in Real War when it's trying to scoot out of 
 the way of another unit.   

  However, units more often shuffle over and through each other, clustering themselves into chaotic 
 blobs. There are formations in the game, but they don't have any significant effect. Neither do 
 the orders for units to launch simultaneous attacks. For some reason, Real War's putative formations 
 aren't even included in multiplayer games. This certainly isn't because the CPU is working overtime 
 on unit AI. These are some of the most helpless units you'll ever have the displeasure of herding. 
 Real War features pathfinding that's incapable of going around a forest, much less navigating a 
 gap in a defensive wall.            The game's poor pathfinding makes battles a chore.    

 
  If Real War had worked better, the unit variety and build tree might have been interesting. Units 
 like destroyers and subs can build a store of long-range cruise missiles. Carriers can build their 
 own custom squadrons. Aircraft can be defended with flares and jamming equipment to shut down antiair 
 weapons. Satellites can be positioned over parts of the map to keep a constant line of sight. Planes 
 drop leaflets onto enemy units to demoralize them. The terrorists can use transport vehicles for 
 suicide missions. There's the basis for a decent game here, but it seems the developers weren't 
 quite up to the task.   

  However, Real War isn't just a bad game. It's also an exercise in horrible timing. It was released 
 exactly two weeks after the September 11th attacks. It includes language in the terrorist campaign 
 about causing the loss of American lives and hitting civilian targets. There are rendered cutscenes 
 of burning cities. The US campaign ends with a view of the Pentagon, minus the dark gash cut into 
 its west side. If ever there was a candidate for being retooled in light of recent events, it was 
 Real War. And if there's any subject matter that's currently inappropriate for this sort of frivolous 
 treatment, it's a war conducted against terrorists overseas. This isn't to accuse the game of poor 
 taste so much as fortuitous timing. But if Westwood had the presence of mind to alter the artwork 
 on Red Alert 2's boxes, Simon &amp; Schuster looks insensitive in comparison when it lets Real 
 War wend its way to retail shelves in its current state.           Tanks and other vehicles seem 
 like nothing more than generic-looking toys.    

  The developer, Rival Interactive, created the game as a commercial version of Joint Force Employment, 
 a "multimedia CD-ROM" it's been trying to sell to the military. Because Real War was based on a 
 training tool that some poor slob in the military might have been duped into requisitioning, you'll 
 find claims of "realism" and "authenticity" stuck all over Real War. "Based On The Official Joint 
 Chiefs Of Staff Training Game Developed For The U. S. Military," the front of the box reads. But 
 this game's very name is patently absurd. There's minimal realism in the design, much less in the 
 execution. Even if the tanks weren't stupidly driving around like drunken bumper cars, they wouldn't 
 be engaging each other at these ranges. A tactical nuke will destroy more than a single building. 
 Submarines don't launch cruise missiles a stone's throw from the shore. And it's not just the scale 
 that's hopelessly fudged. Infantry don't stand out in the open and wait for vehicles to squash 
 them. Propaganda leaflets dropped on an army don't cause them to run away. Helicopters and jet 
 aircraft don't fly in formation with each other. Red Alert 2 has just as much claim to authenticity 
 as Real War. By boasting that they've included authentic military units and realistic tactics, 
 Rival Interactive and Simon &amp; Schuster are insulting not only their audience, but their subject 
 matter as well.   

  One of the saddest things about this Johnny-come-lately to the real-time scene is that actor R. 
 Lee Ermey was hired to do the voice-over for the US campaign. By his voice, you'll instantly recognize 
 Ermey as the ill-fated drill sergeant in Full Metal Jacket or the commander of the plastic army 
 men in the Toy Story movies. Ermey's voice is full of force and personality, but they have him 
 narrate Real War's campaign with the steady insistent drumbeat of a drill sergeant. As each mission 
 loads, he barks embarrassing slogans like, "Semper fi, do or die, gung ho, gung ho, gung ho!" Has 
 he fallen so far that it's come to this? At least when you exit Real War, he barks, "Oh boy, oh 
 boy, isn't that sweet? You're givin' up!" Thank you, R. Lee Ermey, for making it that much more 
 enjoyable to exit Real War.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (5 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: blackrat92
Rating: 2.5
Date: Jun 12, 2008 1:22 am PT
Review:  well... when i first noticed the game in a search i did, it looked great but when i started to look 
 at images and read reviews, i had to try it for my self because you cant always judge by what the 
 systems say. so... i wont waste time saying thousands of words no one will ever read but ill sum 
 it up by saying, age of empires wanabes, if they would have spent alittle more time drawing better 
 and learning the programming languages, then they may have had a classic on therye hands. but ive 
 played the best of the best games so i expect more and more from game creaters every game so dont 
 listen to me for everything. but if your graphics suck and you need a good game that has a demo 
 for you then try out the age of empires saga. they go from ancient rome and the mediteranean civilizations 
 to the asian dynasties and the warcheifs. if you got good graphics i suggest you try asian dynasties. 
 tush ut aclia menton 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phazon78
Rating: 4.3
Date: Apr 21, 2006 4:06 pm PT
Review:  Oh geez. I really don't like to talk sh*t about a game with so much potential. It's just something 
 I have to do so that nobody else wastes any of their hard-earned (or otherwise.) money on an abysmal 
 piece of crap like this.
  
  Gameplay: 4
  I'm being generous with this. The only reason I gave this a four, was because at least you could 
 control the units. Just, not ver well... AT ALL! I've seen retarded bricks with better pathfinding 
 than your fresh-out-of-special-education troops you control in this game.
  
  Graphics: 4
  Sure, the screenshots may look nice, but when you see them in action any thought of enjoyment that 
 may have run through your mind dribbles out like milk in a two year old's mouth. The foot soldiers 
 don't look so much as people as they do some sort of vermin you would find in the devoid-of-anything 
 environments you see in this game.
  
  Sound: 6
  Just enough so that you can tell what's going on.
  
  Value: 7
  Easily the high point of the 
 game. With selectable options on the skirmish mode, this gives you plenty of options to play with... not 
 that you would want to.
  
  This is a classic example of a game with potential smashed to bits by a developer who wanted to 
 make a buck off somebody else's error. For that, they can burn in hell. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blazethe1
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 2, 2006 1:20 pm PT
Review:  ive played command and conquer since the playstation was popular, and my dads friend recommended 
 this game to us. we played it online with him once or twice, and over all i do believe this game 
 is worth alot more than what gamespot gave it. just think, command and conquer red alert, but: 
 less "cartoony" and more realistic weaponary. a few of the sounds, like the beep type buzz that 
 is suppost to mean "holy crap theres a nuke coming" can get kind of annoying. this game was acctually 
 much better than given credit. unlike command and conquer, when a unit is destroyed, the body, 
 or exploded car sits there in ruin.... until you scroll off screen, then they dissapear. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Breadcleaner
Rating: 2.4
Date: Nov 9, 2005 5:46 pm PT
Review:  This game sucks. Under no circumstances, shall you even CONSIDER buying this game. Got it? Good. 
 I mean, its only positive point was that it featured the voice of The gunny. I love the gunny, 
 and just thought "Hey, if its good enough for the gunny, its good enough for me!". WRONG! Oh well, 
 at least I had some fun watching it explode in my microwave. I hate this game. Although it was 
 kind of fun to drop nukes on civillian buildings. He he he he... God, I hated this game. I pray 
 that who ever thought this game was a good idea to make, be struck in the head by a flying ninja 
 star. And then the ninja would kill him and do his secret ninja teleportation dance, and get the 
 hell out of their. And then this mystical ninja would give me a Dr. Pepper and we would wail on 
 our guitars and totally sound freak'in awsome. Period. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_GUNN_man
Rating: 1
Date: Sep 23, 2004 12:46 am PT
Review:  This game just flat out sucks. The cd case that is holding it is worth more then this hunk of garabge. 
 I mainly bought it because of R. Lee Ermey was on it. He didn't help at all. I can't even come 
 with enough to get my minumum word quota. I didn't get any kinda od guide with mine. Don't think 
 that would help though. Rather then buy this game I would go give your money to a bum on the street. 
 At least you would feel better about where your money went. This game is just so akward I could 
 not get the hang of how everything was supposed to work. I need to go take my blood pressure medicine 
 because thinking of the money I wasted on this is making me dizzy. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
