-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Rebel Trucker: Cajun Blood Money
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/driving/rebeltrucker/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec 16, 2003
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 1.8
Critic Score: 4.3, 2 Review (s)
User Score: 3.8, 158 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Global Star Software
Developer: 3 Romans
Genre: Truck Racing
Date:     Nov 25, 2003
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Rebel Trucker is a huge mess of a game that is riddled with grievous bugs, badly designed in every 
 measurable capacity, and completely lacking in any conceivable dimension of fun. 

  The moment you open the box to Rebel Trucker: Cajun Blood Money and discover that the game actually 
 displays two different ESRB ratings (M on the box, E on the instruction manual) , you should take 
 a moment to savor whatever slight amusement can be derived from this bizarre oversight, because 
 this moment of levity will likely be the last one Rebel Trucker provides. In fact, this printer's 
 gaffe is only the very beginning of a lengthy downward spiral that takes Rebel Trucker into depths 
 that rival any of the worst games currently available on today's gaming market. Rebel Trucker is 
 a huge mess of a game that is riddled with grievous bugs, badly designed in every measurable capacity, 
 and completely lacking in any conceivable dimension of fun. How exactly Rebel Trucker made it onto 
 store shelves in its obviously unfinished state is a mystery, but whatever the case, it is easily 
 one of the worst games released this year, on any platform.  

          Rebel Trucker is one of the buggiest, most sloppily designed games released this year. 
     

  In Rebel Trucker, you play as Keri Thibodeaux, a sad-sack, mullet-sporting Southerner looking for 
 some direction in life. Upon seeing an ad on TV advertising the glamorous life of a trucker, Keri 
 is off to start his trucking career, and along the way, he gets tangled up with a group of Italian 
 mobsters who run the majority of New Orleans' smuggling operations, a pair of FBI agents bent on 
 bringing down the mob, and a pigtailed, tightly shirted Southern belle by the name of Maria Sue. 
 The game's story actually comes into play in only one of the three basic modes of gameplay that 
 follow the game's brief, and useless, training level. The three modes are broken up into job offers 
 from different companies: Vieux Carre Routes, which consists of a series of short-distance delivery 
 jobs; AAA Long Hauls, where you'll have to travel lengthy distances delivering cargo, while also 
 maintaining logs of your rest stops, gas-ups, and weigh-ins in order to stay compliant with state 
 trucking regulations; and Stromboli Import Export Trucking, which is the story mode.  

  The Stromboli missions are definitely the most involved aspect of Rebel Trucker, but to be quite 
 frank, they're absolutely awful. Clearly inspired somewhat by the Grand Theft Auto series, the 
 game's story missions involve delivering bribes to police officers, hauling contraband, and killing 
 just about anyone who gets in your way. The story is told through lame CG cutscenes that are painful 
 to watch, both because of how horribly they're rendered and because of their insipid, hackneyed 
 dialogue. The long-haul missions seem to be geared more toward fans of simulation trucking games, 
 but these missions are so underdeveloped and thrown together that anyone hoping for something even 
 remotely simlike will likely just be insulted by what the game has to offer. As for the short delivery 
 missions, they're even more tacked on, and they don't offer anything more than a scant distraction. 

  Rebel Trucker's gameplay is a perplexing mixture of horrible driving physics and irritating controls. 
 When you're driving your truck, acceleration actually feels appropriately sluggish, especially 
 when you're towing a trailer, but once your truck manages to build up some speed, realism goes 
 flying out the window. At any speed exceeding 40mph, your truck begins to handle as though it were 
 made out of cardboard. Slight turns result in extremely quick, sharp angles that seem like they 
 should cause your truck to jackknife or slide out of control, but instead, you can basically swerve 
 all over the place and never even risk losing your trailer. Additionally, crashing your truck is 
 an absolutely ludicrous event. Except for a few sections of the environment that are destructible, 
 running into any object in the game results in a sudden stop, no matter how fast you're going or 
 how small or big the object is. Running into a stop sign at 80 miles an hour, in a big rig, and 
 having the stop sign easily stop you in your tracks is at once hilarious and incredibly disappointing. 

  Rebel Trucker controls terribly, regardless of whether you're using a keyboard or a controller. 
 Keyboard controls are loose and are generally unwieldy when you're attempting to steer your truck, 
 and because of a bug in the game's controller setup, using a controller is just as bad. When you 
 attempt to assign the accelerator to an actual controller button -- instead of using the default 
 control of pressing forward on the analog stick or directional pad -- the game actually assigns another 
 brake button to the designated accelerator, effectively eliminating any possibility of moving forward 
 until you restart the game and reset the controls. Also, when you use any peripheral controller 
 or driving wheel, you still have to use a keyboard for other functions, like radio control or hitching 
 and unhitching trailers, as only the most basic driving functions can even be assigned away from 
 the keyboard.  

  The aforementioned controller bug is only the tip of the iceberg for what is, in essence, one of 
 the buggiest and most unfinished products released to retail stores this year. When you're playing 
 Rebel Trucker, it's next to impossible to go more than a few minutes without running into one bizarre 
 issue or another. For example, when you start a new mission, sometimes your truck just won't move 
 until you throw it into reverse for a few feet and then hit the accelerator. Then there's the game's 
 arrow pointer, which is supposed to tell you where to go for your next stop, but instead, it frequently 
 bugs out in multiple directions, leaving your next destination up to little more than guesswork. 
 Another big issue is the game's complete inability to properly track your gas, funds, or any other 
 statistical information for more than a single mission. Sometimes when you finish a mission you'll 
 end up with more gas than you started with, and sometimes you'll suddenly have less money. It's 
 almost completely random what you end up with from mission to mission.  

  Of course, these are only the issues you'll experience if you can actually get the game to work 
 properly, which is really no small task. We tested Rebel Trucker on a very new Alienware machine 
 with a Radeon 9800 video card and the latest DirectX drivers. Considering that the game's intro 
 movie features an ad for Alienware machines, stating that the game "plays best on Alienware," the 
 game should work fine, right? Wrong. In seemingly every other mission, the game would either completely 
 quit to the desktop after a crash in a certain spot in a level, or it would actually lock up to 
 the point of requiring the Windows task manager to escape it. And then there are the loading times -- in 
 between every single mission, it takes Rebel Trucker between one and three minutes to load up, 
 on average, on a high-end PC. Additionally, while the game is loading, the mouse icon and all computer 
 functions actually lock up for the bulk of that time. In hindsight, this isn't even as bad as the 
 problems we had on a midrange PC with an older-model GeForce card, where the game would actually 
 shut off our monitor upon startup and refuse to display anything until we Ctrl-Alt-Deleted out 
 of the game. Ultimately, these bugs can bring Rebel Trucker to the brink of unplayability.  

          If C. W. McCall were alive today, he'd put the hammer down on this atrocious excuse for 
 a trucking game.     

  If Rebel Trucker had been released seven or eight years ago, it might have looked OK when compared 
 with some of the better offerings back then. In this day and age, the game looks terrible. Flat, 
 cardboardlike textures, ugly environmental designs, mediocre-looking truck and car models, lame 
 destruction effects, frequent glitches and pop-up problems, horrible-looking CG cutscenes, even 
 more astoundingly awful-looking in-engine cutscenes, and an overall draw distance of about a foot 
 and a half all come together to provide one of the worst-looking PC games in years. As for the 
 game's sound design, it has a leg up on the rest of the game in that it isn't completely broken -- though 
 that's about all there is good to say about it. Rebel Trucker's voice work borders on downright 
 lunacy, featuring some of the most insanely generic mobster and cop dialogue ever conceived and 
 equally horrid actors playing up the parts to the point of practical self-parody. As for the game's 
 soundtrack, it's made up of badly recorded Dixieland jazz, generic nu-metal, and an incessant version 
 of "The Saints Go Marching In" that plays over the game's menu screens ad nauseam.  

  To sum it all up, Rebel Trucker is an unmitigated disaster of a game, essentially playing out like 
 a quality-assurance tester's worst nightmare. And even if the game weren't as ridiculously broken 
 as it is, the core of it is still a weak, halfhearted attempt to bring together simulation and 
 arcade-style trucking games that just ends up being too haphazard and too weird to appease fans 
 of either style. Though it probably doesn't even need to be said at this point, let us caution 
 you once more by making it abundantly clear: Rebel Trucker is a game that should, or rather  must 
 , be avoided.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (4 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: SWBFIIMast3r
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 23, 2007 11:14 pm PT
Review:  This game is absolutely horrible. I don't recommend this game. Please don't buy it. First of all, 
 this game graphic are horrible, and very glitchy. The control is horrible and missions are very 
 unclear about your objective. Even when your on the freeway hauling stuff, it can be frustrating 
 since you are timed. Timing wouldn't be so bad if they gave you about 30 seconds more. And also, 
 in the beginning of the game, the tutorial is HORRIBLE. DON'T BUY THIS GAME! AVOID IT AT ALL COSTS. 
 IT WILL MAKE YOU CRY. (I almost did. It made my eyes bleed. Then I went in to the bathroom and flushed 
 this game down the toilet. My mom got angry at me because the toilet was clogged. I had to explain 
 to my parents why a disk was found when my dad unclogged it.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: punkp
Rating: 1
Date: Oct 4, 2006 9:16 pm PT
Review:  Words cannot describe how horrible this game is... i also wanted to try it because i thought it 
 would be funny..... how wrong my feeble little mind was... I couldnt take it, the first 5 minutes 
 were anyoing. My eyes started giving out and my blood pressure started rising. After 10 min. i 
 felt like i was gonna die, i would rather give a donkey a bath in a hot day while trying to find 
 the meaning of life and understand Einstein's theory of relativity. Whoever designed this game, 
 you deserve one hard slap my brother, never EVER for the love of mankind EVER make another game 
 again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rome_212
Rating: 1.3
Date: Jun 27, 2006 11:09 am PT
Review:  This is just an utter mess from top to bottom. It's just miserably bad in almost every way you 
 could think of. Avoid this stinker, it's a MUST to avoid this one!!!!!!!!!!
  
  First is the gameplay. The controls are horrible, and our big rig just get stopped easily when 
 some of the smallest objects are hit even when going at top speed!!!!!!!!! How stupid is that?!?!?!?!
 
  
  The graphics are terrible. They are obviously one of the worst graphics ever on the PC. They are 
 just sooooo ugly I just cannot describe them. 
  
  Everything about this atrocious game is deplorable. Do not buy this game, and it's not even worth 
 looking at. Avoid this at all costs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: conkerreload
Rating: 3.3
Date: Jul 10, 2005 5:21 pm PT
Review:  this game sucks don't pick this game up and buy it. don't even rent the game. it's not worth your 
 money. don't even play the trail. the game has alot of glithes and it is plain stupid. I didn't 
 play 30 mintines of the trail. the story line is stupid and the graphics look like they are from 
 the 90's. my friend brought the game and returned the game in 4 days. if someone gets this game 
 tell them to return the game and get their money back. I hated the game and probably you will hate 
 this game to. if you have the game burn the game. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
