-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Recoil
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/recoil/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr 20, 1999
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.4
Critic Score: 6.6, 20 Review (s)
User Score: 8.0, 150 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Westwood Studios
Developer: Zipper Interactive
Genre: Action
Date:     Feb 28, 1999

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Recoil doesn't do anything particularly new. Yet it does a number of things particularly well. But 
 not for particularly long. 

 Westwood's Recoil doesn't do anything particularly new. Yet it does a number of things particularly 
 well. But not for particularly long.   

 In your basic Terminator plotline, the future is ruled by The Network, with humans now obsolete 
 and doomed to enslavement by the robo-computer-type totality. Except, of course, there's the Alliance 
 of Dissidents, which is humanity's last hope. The Alliance has reached back in time to you, the 
 player. Help me Obi Wan et al.  

 You're "jacked in" as it were to a hacked network tank (as in "battle" not "think" - a distinction 
 that will become a theme in the game) . Incredibly arty distorted cutscenes give you the lowdown 
 on each mission, with three actors fighting to get in front of the (fish-eyed, black and white, 
 super 8) camera amid distorted text, lots of 1's and 0's, duplicate images, etc. If you do really 
 well, the resident hot chick will call you "sport."  

 From there on out, it's just you against several hundred bad guys per mission. You know, the whole 
 "drive around, get busted up, pick up health bonuses and power-ups" paradigm.  

 At first glance, Recoil looks pretty awesome. It pretty much plays like a first-person shooter despite 
 the more facile third-person view (both are available) . The thing that makes Recoil good is that 
 the movement of the tank itself and its gun turret work independently of each other. Separate controls 
 are utilized for each. This gives you the capacity for more than simple 90-degree strafing. Since 
 you can rotate the turret a full 360 degrees, and leave it in place, you always have your guns 
 pointing in the right direction before navigating corners, rolling over the crests of hills, etc., 
 allowing for a more tactically savvy game. It takes some serious getting used to, however. While 
 on the surface it's just a more involved mouse look, beginners will tend to get all twisted around 
 and backward and smash repeatedly into walls. Thankfully, there are two instant "realign" keys, 
 to align the tank chassis with the turret and vice versa.  

 Exacerbating the tricky controls is the tank's sometimes-sluggish response. Control is tight enough, 
 but the thing is, after all, a tank. It rotates real slowly. It accelerates OK, and its top speed 
 is fast enough to let you catch air off many an embankment. It's the rotation of the turret itself 
 that is so infuriating, which I suppose is realistic, but after years of being spoiled by mouse 
 look speeds set to max, some players will find Recoil frustrating.   

 A cache of special weapons, power-ups, and vehicle modes becomes available as you progress through 
 the six campaigns. Some of these are pretty amazing. The sonic burst cannon has a nice "rippling 
 reality field" effect, totally transparent but with waves of time-space-distortion-type stuff. 
 The laser saber creates a nice eerie hum right before it vaporizes your opponent. The arc saber's 
 high voltage electrical attack, which is haphazard looking but deadly accurate in its capacity 
 to target multiple opponents at once (and requires no aiming) , proves that lightning actually strikes 
 more than once. The real payoff is in the tether-guided weapons, however. Both the tether-guided 
 missile and nuke, once launched, switch to a "weapon's-eye" view, so you can steer them through 
 the air. Nice. That said, the box promises 18 different weapons systems, but a lot of these are 
 just upgrades of earlier systems.   

 The multiple tank modes are more disappointing. The game offers four discrete modes of play that 
 unlock over the course of the game: tracked (default) , amphibious, hover, and sub. The first three 
 add little more than new looks to your vehicle. The only effect on gameplay is to unlock new areas. 
 Whether driving on, hovering above, or wading through terrain, handling remains nearly identical. 
 It is with no sense of relief that your hovering tank traverses molten lava - you wouldn't have 
 even bothered attempting to cross it prior to achieving the hover mode. Play is so is so linear 
 in Recoil that the acquisition of a new tank mode is anticlimactic. As soon as it is unlocked, 
 you simply know that the next mission will send you over the new terrain, yet play will remain 
 essentially the same.  

 It would be terrific if, once you unlocked a new vehicle mode, you had the choice of using it strategically. 
 You don't. Transforming from mode to mode is automatic and occurs whenever the terrain requires 
 it. It would be great if you had some decisions to make, like deciding if it would be safer to 
 crawl steadily up the side of the mountain, taking out the opposition a little at a time, or to 
 fly straight up the side, exposing yourself to fire from all the enemies at once, but making the 
 destination much more quickly. This isn't possible because each change happens incidentally and 
 goes all but unnoticed.   

 This wouldn't be such a letdown if the level designs were less linear. Most of them go something 
 like this: Blow up the force-field battery, then go past where the force field was, then go blow 
 up the dam, which will raise the water level and make more roads accessible, etc. Ninety percent 
 of the mission objectives are to blow something up. My biggest complaint is that little or no navigational 
 savvy, let alone strategy, is required to do that. Terrain tends to unlock as you go. Hence at 
 any given time, whatever area is accessible (that you haven't already crossed) is probably where 
 you want to go. You never really need to know what you're doing, let alone plan things out on the 
 map. Most of the puzzles are a snap to solve as long as you have the firepower and the patience 
 to take out the enemy forces with a little stealth.  

 That said, Recoil looks terrific. Cleanly rendered. Awesome weapons effects. Nice enemy unit design. 
 The gentle rain falling on the lakes in the third level is an especially nice touch. In general, 
 Recoil consistently dishes up detailed, smooth graphics with minimum bugginess. The only time things 
 get rough is when you're being fired upon by, say, ten enemy units at once. Then things can get 
 a little choppy. Most of the time the game looks great.  

 Some of the level designs look great too. The multiple bridges, waterways, and overgrown hobbyist-train 
 enthusiasm of the fourth campaign is terrific. Level one's gladiatorial sandpit arena looks like 
 Spartacus (or Double Team) . The wide-open lakes and heavy machinery of level three look very cool. 
 Still, no matter how you dress it up, blowing up stuff is blowing stuff up. The seven different 
 multiplayer levels are based on components from the six single-player campaigns but with completely 
 different maps and power-up locations. Online play is currently available only at Westwood Online. 
   

 Recoil's biggest problem is its inability to consistently entertain over time. It comes flying out 
 the gate, guns blazing, with tons of enemies, a sharp look, relentless action, a badass tank at 
 your disposal, and a distinct tactical advantage over the strafing of most shooters. Unfortunately, 
 a few missions in, and the game has lost most of its steam.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (2 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: _EXCON_
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 12, 2008 6:17 pm PT
Review:  What can i say about Recoil?
  
  Well, nothing more except it is an action game, a very rare one in the sense that gamers get to 
 experience something different. Rather than create a 1st or 3rd person shooting game, Westwood 
 studios sets out to create something much more interesting. In the game, you are many "tanks" if 
 you wish to call it that, and each tank has different eapons, whether it is a missile or just a 
 laser, Recoil delivers. 
  
  Graphics aren't totally bad, in fact they are actually quite great for a game that came out in 
 1999, the image of tanks the graphics created by the exploding enemies, the lasers, the missiles, 
 everything combined seems realistic, however the actual form of the tank is flawed thus adding 
 to the semi-good graphics of the game itself.
  
  Sounds are just about one of the few things in the game that are actually excellent. very realistic 
 in terms of sound effects, firing of weapons, explosions, etc.
  
  Gameplay does not disappoint. i liked playing Recoil because it offered something that i didnt 
 experience before. We have seen jet games, those army games where you use flying tacticts to destroy 
 targets, this is like a medal of honor game except, you are not a solider you are a tank. gameplay 
 is vast, and secretive sometimes, it is quite a unique adventure and action game. i say secretive 
 because i was at certain times surprised as to where i was and even how i had gotten there.
  
  Overall, the game is not a disappointment, it is quite entertaining and defintely worth a try, 
 and if you like it, a buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grantcorp
Rating: 7.9
Date: Apr 30, 2006 3:04 pm PT
Review:  Quite entertaining vehicle shooter where you drive your tank around rather bland levels and blast 
 a slew of enemies with a fun arsenal of different weapons. Although the story is ridiculous and 
 the annoying in-game video mission briefings you receive from a group of underground resistance 
 hackers (!) make you want to shot them instead of the enemy, the action is solid and the pace is 
 full throttle. Occasionally levels seem more like puzzles, but most often it's open grounds. The 
 tank can morph into other vessel types but it doesn't add that much to the gameplay and feels more 
 of a gimmick than actually affecting tactics.
  
  Multiplayer is quite entertaining, and some really fun maps make it an excellent timekiller for 
 a while, although eventually it gets rather samey. Recommended to people who like light hearted 
 action gaming flicks. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
