-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Red Faction
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/redfaction/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep 18, 2001
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.9
Critic Score: 7.8, 30 Review (s)
User Score: 8.2, 1,052 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: THQ
Developer: Volition Inc.
Genre: Sci-Fi First-Person...
Date:     Sep 17, 2001 &raquo;  
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Red Faction is an accomplished shooter -- it deserves a look from fans of the genre, as well as from 
 those who've been impressed with Volition's other achievements. 

 It's a concept straight out of a sci-fi 'zine: Deep in the heart of Mars, a hapless miner named 
 Parker slaves away for a dictatorial corporation called Ultor. Suddenly, the miners can't take 
 the abuse any longer, and Parker gets swept up in an armed revolt against his inhumane employer 
 and its legions of corrupt, heavily armed guards. You play as Parker throughout Red Faction, a 
 good-looking first-person shooter that has a wide variety of weapons and some other notable features, 
 as well as a mostly enjoyable single-player game and a complete multiplayer mode. Red Faction was 
 well received when it was released for the PlayStation 2 console earlier this year. As one of the 
 only original first-person shooters for the PlayStation 2, Red Faction impressed an audience of 
 gamers that didn't know what to expect from a next-generation console shooter. However, the PC 
 shooter genre is already filled with excellent games. So the PC version of Red Faction, which adds 
 32-player multiplayer support and a level editor, has a harder time distinguishing itself, despite 
 its good traits.           You'll join the Red Faction in revolt against the evil Ultor corporation. 
    

  Red Faction was created by Volition, the talented studio whose earlier projects include the role-playing 
 game Summoner and the superlative space combat simulation FreeSpace 2. Volition's latest game has 
 much of the same visual appeal and generally high level of quality found in its previous efforts. 
 Yet Red Faction is somewhat lacking in creativity compared with those other games, as the plot, 
 the characters, the levels, and many of the weapons found throughout are all pretty typical of 
 what you might find in other sci-fi-themed shooters. Red Faction's single-player game also isn't 
 very long, and it will likely take you about 10 hours to finish, though multiple difficulty settings 
 and the multiplayer mode do give the game some replay value.   

  Red Faction is clearly inspired by earlier shooters, especially Valve's groundbreaking Half-Life, 
 and it doesn't deviate much from the formula that was refined by that game and has been reused 
 by many others over the years. As with any recent shooter, controlling Red Faction is easy and 
 responsive by means of a keyboard-and-mouse combination. As Parker, you're generally well protected 
 against enemy attacks thanks to your bright red mining suit, which even lets you breathe underwater 
 indefinitely. Parker runs quickly and jumps nice and high, and he can carry a huge arsenal of weapons -- more 
 than a dozen.   

  Many of these weapons are instantly recognizable archetypes found in other shooters. They're mostly 
 well done in Red Faction, and they all have alternate firing modes or special features. You'll 
 appreciate such details as the digital ammo readout on the side of the assault rifle, the rocket 
 launcher's ability to detect human heat signatures through walls, and the flamethrower's detachable 
 explosive fuel canisters. A see-through riot shield that can absorb enemy gunfire, a deadly semiautomatic 
 sniper rifle, and a single-shot railgun that shoots through walls are some of the other highlights. 
 Yet while Red Faction's arsenal seems extensive, it can also feel somewhat confining. Weapons such 
 as the assault shotgun and grenade are too slow to be of much use. Your aim with either of the 
 two different sniper rifles is completely steady even when you're looking through the magnifying 
 scopes, which reduces some of the challenge in using them. Often, you'll have just one or two weapons 
 in your arsenal that are best suited to your particular situation, which makes some of the gun 
 battles in Red Faction seem predictable.           More than a dozen different weapons are available, 
 all with special features.    

  This is partly because you'll be fighting the same sorts of enemy guards, only in various shapes 
 and forms, throughout the majority of the game. Fortunately, these guards are quite competent -- the 
 tougher ones aim well, and they all do a pretty good job of dodging from side to side and hiding 
 behind walls when they can. They also tend to flee when they take some damage or run out of ammo, 
 but on the other hand, they aren't good at working in groups and they don't flush you out when 
 you're hiding. And once you learn to aim for their heads -- you may already be very used to doing 
 this in other shooters -- in most cases you'll be able to bring them down quickly and without much 
 trouble. Besides all the guards, you'll take on an occasional mining robot or an experiment-gone-wrong, 
 but these aren't very interesting and don't give the combat quite as much variety as you'd probably 
 want.    

 It's too bad that Parker must fight all by himself most of the time. On the rare occasions when 
 he's accompanied by other miners, those fools blunder headlong into their deaths. No wonder he's 
 alone. Still, Red Faction's context -- a violent revolt -- just doesn't come across well since only 
 Parker seems to be doing any of the real work, while a remote hacker tells him which way to go 
 next. At any rate, you'll certainly appreciate the game's few sequences when you're not the only 
 one shooting at the enemy. More such sequences would have been welcome, just as it would have been 
 nice if Volition offered a cooperative multiplayer option for the single-player levels.        
    You'll get to commandeer several different types of vehicles.    

  Red Faction has some fun features that are a bit gimmicky but nevertheless add some diversity to 
 the action and otherwise leave room for future shooters to try to improve on these elements. Most 
 notably, Volition's trademarked Geo-Mod technology lets you use your explosive weapons to literally 
 blow apart certain types of surfaces, such as thin metal or cavern walls. In several satisfying 
 points in the game, rather than having to unlock a door of some sort, you get to blast a hole through 
 the wall beside it and walk on through. This effect is quite well done and used with surprising 
 restraint -- perhaps too much restraint -- during the single-player game, though it figures prominently 
 in some of the multiplayer maps, especially the capture-the-flag levels, where you can rip into 
 the opposing team's headquarters rather than try to navigate the corridors. Red Faction also lets 
 you commandeer a variety of vehicles, ranging from submarines and one-man fliers to armored trucks, 
 that look great and can be fun to use, but they're modeled with simplicity and all control in about 
 the same sluggish way. Red Faction even throws in a couple of stealth sequences that require you 
 to stay far enough away from nearsighted guards and security cameras -- but these parts are mostly 
 just a diversion from the more-straightforward shooting sequences, which are more fun.   

  Red Faction's proprietary 3D engine looks good and runs fast and smooth on systems with plenty 
 of memory and a good graphics card, the game's moderately sized levels load fairly quickly, and 
 you can instantly save your progress at any time. The game occasionally crashed on two different 
 test systems, though this wasn't detrimental. The characters found throughout Red Faction are fully 
 animated and clearly detailed -- you'll learn to identify the various weapons in the hands of your 
 foes -- and the special effects, especially explosions and shattering glass, look great. Red Faction 
 also has rather pronounced blood effects for whenever anybody gets hit, but they're as graphic 
 as the game gets. The game's environments feature sharp, attractive textures, although the architecture 
 itself is fairly plain. Furthermore, the game's futuristic Martian setting just doesn't really 
 lend itself to a tremendous amount of variety -- the environments won't surprise you if you've played 
 any other sci-fi-themed shooters lately, and the game's early stages, all winding red caverns, 
 are particularly drab. Most of the audio in Red Faction isn't very special, either, as the flat 
 voice acting, the somewhat subdued weapon effects, and the droning electronic/ambient score all 
 suitably supplement the action but don't enhance it much. Fortunately, some of the weapons do sound 
 like they pack a serious punch, and effects like explosions are nice and loud.           The action 
 is formulaic, but it's fast and frequently fun.    

  Because of the game's multiplayer mode, and perhaps the level editor that comes included, Red Faction 
 should keep you busy for a while after you've finished the single-player mode. The editor is as 
 complex as you'd expect from a tool that lets you build intricate 3D levels, though prospective 
 level designers should find good incentive in tinkering with the Geo-Mod system. Multiplayer offers 
 20 different maps for standard deathmatch and team deathmatch, as well as seven maps designed for 
 capture the flag. Red Faction's fast pacing and broad arsenal make the action play out rather differently 
 on some maps than on others -- some are much more conducive to close-quarters skirmishes, while others 
 are perfect for long-range combat, and Red Faction has plenty of weapons in each category. And 
 despite the fact that a few of Red Faction's weapons can be much more powerful than most, the multiplayer 
 mode can be quite fun.   

  Red Faction is a good, solid shooter. The PC version is technically superior to the earlier PlayStation 
 2 version on account of its higher-resolution graphics and its multiplayer mode, and it controls 
 much better using the PC's keyboard-mouse combo compared with the PlayStation 2's gamepad. The 
 PC version even retails for $10 less. Then again, Red Faction for the PC faces stiff competition 
 from other, similar sci-fi-themed shooters that are older but still popular. Its relative lack 
 of originality can therefore undermine Red Faction's appeal for more-experienced players, for whom 
 the game will provide mostly familiar territory. Nevertheless, Red Faction is an accomplished shooter 
 in its own right -- it deserves a look from fans of the genre, as well as from those who've been 
 impressed with Volition's other achievements.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (30 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: helborhamy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 16, 2009 12:20 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazing and its one of the best games I ever played. First the environment, you have 
 a very destructible environment that will suck you in. Second, the guns, the guns are amazing especially 
 the ray gun that can shoot through walls. Third bullet holes in the walls, its very intense when 
 you start running away from the enemy and see the bullets hit the walls right next to you, the 
 great thing about this, is when you are done killing the enemy you can go back and check out how 
 many holes were made trying to get you. And last, the multiplayer, its very fast paced and very 
 enjoyable, never boring.
  
  Thats all i have to say about this game, I think its very under-rated and I hope that Red Faction: 
 Guerrilla will be as good if not better.
  
  If you don't own this game or the second yet; buy this one and give the finger to the second. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DrWallaceGreen
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 5, 2008 11:41 pm PT
Review:  Red Faction's story involves this guy called Parker, whom you play as,
  and he is sort of stressed, and he goes to Mars and think of what he'll do 
  with his life. Now 
 when he gets there, he finds out that Mars is run by this evil corporation, that forces the people 
 work in the mines.
  Now the "mutiny" starts really stupidly, where tons of people get killed, just because some guy 
 didnt wanna go to work or something, its really stupid.
  
  I actually just happened to stumble on this game when I was at my cousin's
  house, and I found 
 an illegal copy that had the words "Red Faction" written on it. You dont give a damn you say? 
 
  Well, my point is, that this game is kinda unknown of, and none of my friends have played it, 
 wich is a shame. I haven't even seen it in any bargain bin or anything. This game is a lot like 
 Total Recall, wich i'm going to see one day, but ive seen the beggining and the hazard suits in 
 this game are just like the ones in Total Recall.
  
  The unique thing that Red Faction has is the geo-mod, wich let's you blow up the walls, and sometimes 
 you can take shortcuts that way.
  Another great thing about this game is the epic moments.
  Example: Youve escaped an explosion and the main rebel leader MAY have died. Outside, there's a 
 guy in a car, driving you to "Point B" and hes telling you that the leader wanted to give you this 
 CD, while you're looking at mars,
  this huge area with canyons and a red sky. Somehow that's the memory that sticks out with this 
 game for me, because it feels so great to be there.
  
  The graphics and sound are also great, with the music being a great score,
  wich really fits 
 the mood of the game.
  But sometimes there are people who scream very overactingly, wich is comical.
  
  Theres also 
 a bit of a stealth aspects, and while theres only two parts in the game where you need to use stealth, 
 they completely suck.
  The normal gameplay is fun, but this is just stupid.
  You'll be walking in a disguise normally, just like everyone else, maybe with 
  your face against 
 the wall so nobody recognizes you, and no matter WHAT you do, theres always some A-hole going
 HEY LOOK! It's Parker *BLAM BLAM BLAM BLAM* Die you scum! ", wich is really annoying and you really 
 cant use stealth when you're justing walking like other people ( and dont even DARE to open doors) , 
 you'll just suddenly be shot.
  But theres only, as I said, two parts that require stealth so it's not a big deal.
  
  I also 
 said that some people scream really comically, its usually because you are not holstering your 
 gun, that is that you are not keeping it away from theyre vision. This is a real pain in the butt, 
 because non-enemies will not trust you if they see, or have seen you holding a weapon, and doctors 
 WILL NOT HEAL YOU, and that my friend, is bullcrap.
  
  But the normal gameplay is mostly fun, and they jazz it up a bit with putting in vehicles, such 
 as cars, submarines, helicopters and tanks.
  I dont care if you pirate this game JUST PLAY IT NOW!
  
  Hope you liked my review because this 
 was my first one.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: vladerski_599
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 10, 2008 2:53 am PT
Review:  Let me start this review with single player.
  The game starts humbly, with limited weaponry and basic environments.
  But holy smokes, once 
 this game takes off, it soars. 
  About an hour and a half or so in, things really get interesting.
  Massively cool weaponry comes 
 into play, awesome environments (Space station!!??) and amazing graphics (For when it came out) , 
 as well as the cool but not too gimicky Geo-Mod technology, all lend themselves to an immersive 
 and most of all fun gaming experience.
  Red Faction just seems to get things right, and I'm already going through it for a third time. 
 
  I purchased this game for ten bucks a few years back, but didn't think much of it. After i got 
 stuck in the first office level (I'm a much more adept gamer now!) , I kinda forgot about it. Sure, 
 it had good gameplay and whatnot, but meh.
  If only I had read the walkthrough.
  Only recently have I picked it up off the shelf again, and boy, I haven't stopped playing.
  Plus, 
 I have just discovered that I can play multiplayer over my internet (A piddly 56kb/ps) , so the 
 last few days have been devoted to that aspect of the game.
  Which brings me to multiplayer.
  Multiplayer is fast, furious, sometimes annoying, but always 
 fun.
  Even with only 3 players on the server, you can still have yourself a good time. I won't spoil 
 it too much, but I highly suggest it.
  The only downside I can think of is that there's no player tracking, for example it doesnt show 
 how many kills you've got so far and stuff, but it's no biggy. All is forgotten when the killing 
 begins.
  And a quick word on weapons:
  Rail Driver: Good luck if you cross one of these beasts. One shot kill, aim through walls, hell, 
 you're pretty much screwed if someone's snatched this up. Only downside is slow reloading time.
 
  Fusion Rocket Launcher: Basically a portable atomic bomb launcher.
  Everyone within about twenty metres of the exploding rocket is killed instantly, the screen goes 
 white, and an unearthly sound fills the air.
  Sucks to be caught in this thing's blast radius (Which is pretty damn big) .
  
  In conclusion: 
 With a long single player campaign, hours of fun on multiplayer, and some weird glasshouse thing 
 (Don't ask) , you too can 
  JOIN THE REVOLUTION!
  
  It's only $10. Get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aschuhart
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 30, 2008 11:57 pm PT
Review:  ***PLEASE NOTE: All my reviews are based upon the single player version only seeing how that is 
 what the game itself is based off of.****
  
  Red Faction a good First Person Shooter in the sense that it looks good, plays well, has decent 
 weapons, and a decent storyline. However there is still just and over all feeling of....."been 
 there, done that". It really doesn't set itself apart from nearly every other shooter at the time, 
 nor are the graphics ground breaking in any sort of way. However the game is still a decent shooter 
 and it's really hard to rate a game like this because there really isn't much to talk about or 
 elaborate on. You simply go around, kill the opposition to complete the mission and that's it. 
 Also there's nothing bad to report either. Game runs smooth. I personally didn't run into any bugs 
 or glitches. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WonderBread88
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 21, 2008 11:14 am PT
Review:  Storyline: 7 - Somewhat mediocre storyline but still goes well with the game.
  
  Graphics/Physics: 10 - Not bad graphics for its time. Ive yet to see desructive physics like this 
 in any other game series. "Hamster tunneling" is especially fun.
  
  Sound: 6 - Good sound, somewhat realisitc.
  
  Environment/Maps: 8 - Maps work very well with 
 the story line and the feel of the game. Maps at times do seem somewhat bland though.
  
  Game Engine/Scripting: 8.5 - Very few glitches. Had to knock it down because of the compatibility 
 problem with recent graphics cards, mainly the geforce 8XXX series.
  
  Interface: 8 - Pretty typical. Why change whats already known as good though
  
  Menu: 7 - Menu 
 is pretty simple and very easy to use.
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Overall: 8.5 - Innovative Classic! Its all about the physics in this one. Few games capture the 
 "hamster tunneling" destructiveness like the Red Faction series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Soldaten027
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 3, 2008 7:31 pm PT
Review:  Now game developers can impress me with shnazzy graphics and **** stories, but sometimes who really 
 give a good @#^*? Red Faction is one of those games that decides not to offer a great story or 
 any real revolutions in gameplay, but you know what, that's not a problem.
  Yeah, the story's not much to speak of. It's your standard one-man army taking on an evil corporation 
 that opresses its workers and happens to have evil scientists killing them off, blah, blah, blah, 
 this game is just an exucse to shoot bad guys.
  The gameplay is your standard shooter with handguns, assult rifles, railguns, and then some. But 
 the controls are familiar to the touch allow anyone to pick the controls just to have a good time 
 shooting up some mercenaries. But for its time, the AI is impressive. The guards duck and run for 
 cover, while others run and hide only to return with a full clip of ammo.
  The games main selling point was the fact that you could destroy practically anything in the game. 
 Whop de do, I probably only used that once. It would've been nice to see more of that "Geo-Mod" 
 tech put to good use however.
  All in all, what can I say. You'd probably be better off buying Metal Gear Solid or Resident Evil, 
 but if you have the game hiding in your game collection, it's worth firing up here and there, just 
 to reminded that some shooters don't have to take themselves seriously. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TIHanTime
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 10, 2008 11:51 pm PT
Review:  I will speak in terms of me thinking about this game in 2001. It was the bomb. It rocks hardcore 
 in every way. I would have given it a 9.0 in 2001. But now, I give it a 8.0 due to things I didn't 
 catch back in those days.
  
  The game has an excellent story line to it. It is immersive and challenging. However, so challenging 
 that one shot in the head doesn't kill a guy. No matter where you shoot somebody it will due the 
 same amount of damage. The animation is a little jerky with enemies sometimes. As with animation 
 sequences, they are not bad, but not good. I like the idea with going through cavern walls as I've 
 never seen a game where you could choose where you want to drill a hole in the wall to get somewhere. 
 What really makes this game fun, is the music and the game play combined with a good storyline. 
 Combat, besides our non-headshot part, is well done.
  
  Though it may not be revolutionary, it is still a good game to play. The length of the game as 
 I know is unknown. I have been able to go far into the game but I never finished or knew how far 
 I was from finishing it. I say it is pretty long. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Azghouls
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 31, 2007 10:52 pm PT
Review:  At the time when Red Faction was released, Volition promised many things. Action packed, cutting 
 edge graphics, great story, Half Life killer (man how many times I have read that) , unparallel 
 multiplayer and the big one the Geo-Mod technology that suppose to revolutionise FPS. The big question 
 is did it live up to its promise. In short, no.
  
  Firstly let's work on the story. You start of being Parker who arrives on Mars in the 22nd Century 
 for a quick buck and a life changing experience. Little else known about this hero other than he's 
 cheezed off as the 'promise' of a great future turns out to be his worst nightmare; maybe because 
 of the lack of unions as the miners are seriously mistreated especially by the guards. As a side 
 plot a mysterious plague infects the miners and yet no one knows about the cure... if there is one. 
 However an individual by the name of Uos posting propaganda posters throughout the mines trying 
 to provoke a revolution...
  
  Well obviously the revolution starts (otherwise there is no game) and you are caught in the fire. 
 Now you might think this is a great start to the game. For me, actually no. The amount of times 
 I read about revolution combining with a 'mysterious' plague is wearing very thin. Never less, 
 on with the revolution.
  
  According to the developers of this game, the Geo Mod engine supposes to revolutionise the way 
 you play FPS. That said apparently anything can be destroyed. On the back of the box it states 
 'Why kill guards one-by-one when you can collapse the whole structure'. I never read such hogwash 
 rubbish in a long time. Granted, you can punch holes in the walls but what good is that? So I can 
 enter it? Hide from the guards? Please don't make me laugh as it only hurts when I'm laughing.
 
  
  Many-a-times I was trying to be creative and looking for other ways to kill my foes because of 
 this Geo Mod technology and practically everything I tried from blasting floors to creating potholes 
 for enemies to drop into failed. Of course there are levels where you need to blast a hole say, 
 around a door to enter however it's more of when the game designers tell you when to use this technology 
 than you want to use it at your own accord. Linear Geo Mod technology is more like it. Use it when 
 we tell you to and screw creativity.
  
  Here comes another gripe. The game's AI is nothing short of an absolute joke; like governments 
 promising to lower taxes. I'm totally aware that programming AI (and governments) especially in 
 2001 is no easy task. 'Today' games still cannot get this right however in Red Faction there is 
 no excuse for poor AI. I started this game on medium setting (as there are your typical easy, medium, 
 hard and impossible levels) and seriously the game is a walk-in-the-park. The enemies practically 
 want to be shot. Maybe life on Mars wasn't just miserable for the miners as the whole bunch of 
 motley crews are suicidal, maniac fools. So approximately two hours of game play I swapped it to 
 hard. What a big change. Again the AI loves to run into your line of fire however they are B-R-U-T-A-L. 
 That said, the AI never misses their target. Let me explain further. I snuck behind a guard going 
 for that silent kill (I have a silencer pistol you know) - one clean shot in the head and... instant 
 death for me. That guard had some kind of telepathic, telekinesis ability that he knew I was behind 
 him, shouted 'It's just me and you miner', spun around and of course I died in a matter of a millisecond. 
 It was soo fast that the guard was caught in a never ending spinning loop even after I have kicked 
 the bucket. Maybe it amazed him more than me and needed to twirl in victory. Who knows. Another 
 example is when I need to capture an important figurehead and have to get past his secretary. Of 
 course the secretary ordered me not to go in her boss's office without an appointment and carries 
 on typing. Now I am a man on an assignment and no secretary is going to stop me especially after 
 being brutally punished by the guards... and I mean brutally punished. So I pulled out my... yep 
 that ever-trusting silencer pistol. That did me no good against my previous encounter with the 
 guard but 'danger' is my middle name. Massively paranoid that the secretary is going to pull out 
 her shotgun, smack me down and going on that endless loop of victory I dared this feat. And guess 
 what... she carried on typing! A friggin pistol pointing at her head and she carries on typing? 
 This game amazes me. So I shot her anyway and walked in... and her boss wasn't fazed for a second. 
 I just shook my head. BTW - I shot him too but the game ended because he was a 'major' player in 
 this game as he knows the cure of this plague and seriously who cares? The plague will be a welcoming 
 addition to me than fighting those guards any day.
  
  And this stupidity continues throughout the game...
  
  There's a huge amount of weapons to 
 collect. Ranging from shotguns (the weakest I have ever encountered in any game BUT not for the 
 enemies - I tell you more very soon) to snipers (and that will not do any good at all - remember 
 the bionic vision that each guard has...) to heavy suppression machine gun (one of the very few 
 weapon along with the flame thrower that can actually do some serious damage) to the all-powerful 
 super rail gun. What makes this rail gun super is it can see enemies through walls as it detects 
 heat. Man when I first got my hands on this beauty I was the ant's pants... you can't see me and 
 I can see you... Geo Mod engine here-I-come... then I made a fatal mistake... the mercs have them 
 too... back to my silencer. Screw that Geo Mod engine.
  
  Bored yet?
  
  I tell you my sniper story anyway. I saw a guard which to my total amazement did not noticed me. 
 Considering I'm on a roll I slowly aimed my sniper at full zoom and... I died. How? Well he did 
 spotted me after all that and drew out his shotgun and from that distance (remember I'm on FULL 
 zoom) shot me and of course killed me. All this courtesy on that hard difficulty. Now imagine what 
 'impossible' be like?
  
  I must admit there has been some really cool elements in this game like flying a ship or submerging 
 under water in your sub or piggy-back on a jeep firing away at your enemies whilst your AI friend 
 (which of course never gets killed) drives like a maniac. But driving a driller? That piece of 
 junk only last ten seconds. Play the game and prove me wrong... and I'm not talking about being 
 stationary either. Of course me and my 'utilise the Geo Mod engine to its maximum potential because 
 I can destroy everything', I used this driller to... drill holes of course. You know, bore holes 
 in walls etc but of course the driller arms broke in a matter of seconds.
  
  Oh come on guys!!! Why are you doing this to me?!?
  
  However there is some hope after all 
 this mess.
  
  The sounds and soundtrack is not at all bad... or good either. Mediocre is the better word but for 
 what I was going through in this game it was welcoming. All the effects sounds 'soft'. No hard-hitting 
 firing, burning, crushing and whatever else. That is, the shotgun explosions are weak, your footsteps 
 weaker and the sounds of crushing rocks among that huge piece of killer machinery, crunching... nah 
 I couldn't be bothered.
  
  Ok... it's weak... but the musical scores presented itself quite well in the right moments...
  
 
  And the graphics...*sigh*... OK, it's good. Nice water effects, facial expressions (even that raised 
 eyebrow from Uros herself - nice touch) , great human movements, lighting (even though I wonder 
 how on Mars did they power all the lights) , the underwater effects (that was very nice indeed) 
 etc are all very welcoming indeed. However the general layout of Mars makes absolutely no sense 
 what-so-ever. Now, me being a complete loser actually drawn a map as I progress to understand the 
 layout of this game and it really didn't make any sense. It looks like the developers just lumped 
 in one level at a time to either show off of their new technology or trying to speed up/slow down 
 the game. At least place some logic in the level structure people. I must admit I quite like those 
 'stealthy' missions as it provided a good change of pace - you know that ugly 'creativity' word. 
 Anyway, try and map it for yourself and you'll see what I mean. There will be questions and that 
 Geo Mod engine ain't gonna save it.
  
  Here you have a game, like Trespasser, tries to revolutionises FPS. I'm going to give some credit 
 for this as it's a bold step to do. If you have ever played any FPS during this time (2001) you 
 will never get to experience these 'destructible' environs like Red Faction. That and the ability 
 to hijack vehicles can produce a killer of a game. However my gripe is they advertise it as 'free-to-do-whatever-you-like' 
 which is not the case. It set my hopes very high as it tried to do something different. It seems 
 that the Geo Mod engine can only be used effectively when the game tells you and not when you want 
 it. Combining this with terrible AI sends this game into a downward spiral. Play it if you will 
 but don't expect too much. Treat it as another run-of-the-mill FPS and you won't be as disappointed.
 
  
  One last note: My difficulty rating is based on the 'Hard' level as this is the level I actually 
 finished the game otherwise on 'Medium' it's very easy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chandu83
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jun 12, 2007 5:14 pm PT
Review:  Red Faction is a surprise package. I didnt expect the game to be as entertaining and gripping. 
 I am glad I played this game, even after such long time after its release.
  
  The game starts out pretty slowly. You play as Parker, a miner on Mars, working for a company called 
 Ultor. The miners are exploited, overworked and underpaid, living in miserable conditions, ill-treated 
 by the guards and facing a lifelong service in extremely tough conditions.
  
  A small group of rival miners decide to revolt when a plague breaks lose killing miners. You inadvertently 
 become a part of the revolt against the corporation that doesnt care whether you live or die, 
 as long as you are getting their work done.
  
  We dont get to see socialist upraising in games all that often. Of course, there are a few mutants 
 and zombies thrown in, but that only breaks the routine. For most part of the game, you battle 
 against guards and mercenaries or Ultor.
  
  I got the feeling that the game tried to be something like Half Life. Somehow the visuals look 
 very similar and you get to ride the tram more than once in the game, you have a space suit that 
 is very similar to the hazard suit in Half Life!
  
  The visuals are very good. The graphics capture the atmosphere of the red planet very well and 
 you get the feeling of being a part of something truly out of this world. I did experience frame 
 rate drops a few times, but that isnt a problem.
  
  You get to drive a few vehicles in the game, like a Submarine and other land vehicles. I thought 
 this part could have been a little better. For most time, the vehicles are pretty slow to respond, 
 but since the enemy vehicles are slow as well, it doesnt leave you a disadvantage. Had the vehicles 
 handled better, the action in the game would have been a whole lot intense.
  
  There are tons of weapons to be used in the game, like assault rifle, precision rifle, sniper rifle, 
 rocket launcher and others. As the game progresses, you get to use better weapons, and consequently 
 the enemies get a lot tougher. But they are not very intelligent, they tend to come in packs, just 
 fire at them Rambo style with your heavy machine gun, and youll finish them off in no time.
  
  However, towards the end there are some mercenaries using rail guns, and they can kill you 
 in one shot, and they tend to be quite accurate as well. This part is challenging and a lot of 
 fun to play. Using your rail gun to aim on a mercenary far off just as he tries to get an aim on 
 you can be pretty intense. There are quite a few such rail gun duals towards the end of the game.
 
  
  Now, probably for the first time in games, we have truly destructible environments. Using certain 
 weapons, like rocket launchers, remote charges you can destroy walls etc. This is a lot of fun 
 to use, although it is very primitive in the way its implemented.
  
  The audio in the game is good, no complaints here, although the constant screaming of scientists 
 and other non-hostile NPCs when they see you carrying your weapons can be irritating, but otherwise, 
 the sound is solid, and the music, when it plays, also adds to the thrill at times.
  
  My final verdict  standard FPS fare, that doesnt deviate much from the generic formula and for 
 a good reason. The geo mod technology is an interesting feature, pity it wasnt implemented more 
 often.
  
  Worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pookeygrn_309
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 19, 2007 5:43 am PT
Review:  This game Delivers a Great story line and have an all around type of game play from disarming bombs 
 to riding in vehicles, this is one of my best buys... if serious gamers wasn't play games like Counter 
 Strike and Halo... this would be a must have. Also the game has highly addictive multilayer non-stop 
 fast paced action that will have you playing for hours..... this game would be doom and Counter 
 Strike mixed in one highly addictive and faced pace .its not the best game but hell it is a good 
 one if your into quake and Unreal Tournament this would be the game to go get.. the graphics are 
 lacking just a bit overall this game is off the hook.. few may disagree with me but they must not 
 be real gamers to not love red faction. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dvs1270
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 26, 2007 9:10 pm PT
Review:  Red Faction is an old school original. I played the original on PS2 when it was released a decade 
 ago. It brought something new to the table with the Geo-mod engine. It was fun to blow holes in 
 the walls for the first time, instead getting a puff of weak smoke. It was fun throwing a charge 
 on a guy's back & hitting the switch. By today's standard it's cheesy & dated but for a FPS fan 
 it's good to see where & how some of that fps thing got a start. The story is good but the acting 
 is weak, & the game play is not very exciting. But I can remember when my first sight of Capek 
 made us pause the game, look at each other & say daaaamn, what the f.... is that? I have heard 
 buzz of a 3rd installment so, like Half-life I think interest will pick up for this game. It's 
 worth a round of play while we wait for the next run of shooters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sahfire
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 3, 2007 6:14 pm PT
Review:  This game had something new when it came. Now, for the first time ever you can destroy and alter 
 the environment in real-time! GEO-MOD technology revolutionises first person shooters by opening 
 up a whole new level of strategy. Red Faction got multiplayer, but I didn't used it for some reason. 
 The multiplayer mode support up to 32 players on 24 maps. Deathmatch, T-Deathmatch and CTF are 
 the game types. Hehe, you can make your own maps with the level editor... ain't that cool?
  
  The lenght of the game mixed with awsome vechiles and weapons made this game fun. The environments 
 in this game are very good!
  
  .... But.. well, the enemy AI is a bit erratic. When a guard is hit he runs around like a chicken 
 with its head cut off. It also takes many bullets to bring enemies down and It just doesn't look 
 any good. The physics sucks in this game!
  
  The game had only one map.. so you had to save where you wanted to play again. One big map with 
 other words. Red Faction is a great game though. It gets a high score because it was addictive 
 fun. The gameplay was also kinda varied. You could use 5 different vechiles/8 weapons. Red Faction 
 is a game you will remember. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sune_Gem
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 17, 2006 12:32 pm PT
Review:  When thinking of the good times i had while i was playing red faction 1 on my pc i realise... That 
 was a pretty good game
  
  Theres alot to do on there besides going BANG BANG your dead To all the enemys. Theres veichles 
 that you can ride in. Flying ships to gon zooming through the air...
  
  ... But what makes this game Golden is the geomod (Ability to destroy the enviroment) . You can have 
 so much fun with it by blasting holes in the walls and digging your way around to other places... 
 Say theres a rocky bridge with a tank and some men going across it. You can just get a rocket launcher 
 and instead of shooting the tank you can shoot away the edges of the brdige and watch it, and all 
 the men fall to there doom.
  
  The multiplayers good and with the map macker you can give your creations and levels to your mates 
 and play it online... You can make a level where you dont just kill each other but you help each 
 other to get past all the obstacles you created on the level... Its just cool to make a flying 
 part and see you and your mates flying through the air... Getting shot down...
  
  Its a long lasting Good game thats well underated 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anime_boi
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 8, 2006 5:39 pm PT
Review:  This was one of the first few games that I got really hyped up about, partly because of the fact 
 that it had the GEOMOD technology in it. Well... it only really applies to enviromental surfaces, 
 like dirt, rocks, and several types of walls. Why can't we blow everything up in the game? That's 
 what I've always wanted to know... at least until I gave away my copy (stupidly, I might add) . 
 But there are the redeeming qualities of the game that very much outweigh the destructibility... 
 or lack thereof. There's the engrossing storyline of torment and illegal nanotech experimentation 
 on a mining corporation's area on the planet Mars, the nice selection of well balanced weaponry, 
 and there's the excellent multiplayer (which I, unfortunately, didn't try) . But when it comes down 
 to the line, I have to say this- if you can find yourself a copy of this on the PC or PS2 in a 
 bargain bin- or new- at your local game store, GET IT. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nightharvest
Rating: 7.3
Date: Nov 20, 2006 7:58 pm PT
Review:  To call Red Faction a good game is both a compliment and a criticism. It provides an engaging storyline 
 and some satisfying combat action. However, this action ultimately does get repetitive and issues 
 with the AI and the short single player campaign hold it back from greatness. However, Red Faction 
 is an enjoyable gaming experience and has enough going for it to recommend.
  
  You play the role of Parker, who has gone to the promised land of Mars at a time in the distant 
 future. Whilst working in the mines of Mars is advertised as a rewarding work and life experience, 
 the grim reality is that workers are in a oppressive environment due to the conditions imposed 
 by the Ultor Corporation, the enforcement of the overly-aggressive guards and the uncertainly of 
 a mysterious illness that is killing several miners. It all comes to a head when a miner kills 
 an antagonistic guard. This leads to a revolt with Parker and members of the 'Red Faction' fighting 
 their oppressors in an attempt to escape from Mars. This leads to is plenty of combat, some decent 
 weapons and vehicles and a number of environments to work through in a game that barely drops its 
 frenetic pace.
  
  The graphics were quite good for their time and still look reasonable today. The graphical strength 
 is the large environments the engine can cater for. There is a variety of excellent landscapes 
 and environments (indoor and outdoor) to travel through to reach your goal and it does look like 
 something out of a sci-fi movie. The weapons are well defined and the vehicles you get to use are 
 creative with appropriate HUD interfaces. However, the allies and enemies guards are way too generic 
 and all have the same action and scripts. The variety of enemies does increase during the later 
 stages of the game, but it is a pity there isnt more variety early on. The GEOMOD technology, 
 allowing you to alter the terrain is a good idea and works exceptionally well. It is a mystery 
 why it wasnt utilized more in the single player campaign. The introduction and closing sequence 
 FMVs are also very well created.
  
  The sounds are also competent, with a decent musical score and appropriate in-game effects that 
 are primarily focused on combat. There is some voice acting through the campaign, which could have 
 done a bit better. Also, both allies and enemies only have two or three lines and it does get repetitive 
 hearing the guards saying the same thing over and over again. Firefights sound decent, but not 
 impressive.
  
  The gameplay is solid and enjoyable, though ultimately repetitive. It is also clear that a little 
 bit more work on some of the core elements could have made the game a lot better. The focus of 
 the game is combat and no doubt that action comes thick and fast and there are some quality firefights 
 during the campaign. There are a variety of different weapons at your disposal and even some vehicles 
 which provide welcome to the gameplay. The environments are also varied enough to keep the gamer 
 interested and they story does have some interesting twists and turns.
  
  But in the end, the combat is quite repetitive. You are up against the same guards for a majority 
 of the game and the actions are predictable. They will not take cover and not hunt in a pack, and 
 a couple of head shots will invariably bring them now. A little bit more work on the AI of the 
 enemy combatants would have lifted the gameplay to a new level. The same can be said for the ally 
 AI was well. Whilst, it is possible they were never supposed the play a major role in the game, 
 they are almost lemming-like in their approach to combat and the next thing you normally see after 
 citing one is them slumping to their death. For an all-out revolt, Parker seems to do a lot of 
 work alone. Some better squad based mechanics would have made the game better.
  
  There are some time-based objectives, usually requiring you to leave an area after taking action 
 to obliterate it. The combat gets a bit tougher in the later levels when the one-shot kill laser 
 is used by enemies. There is a stealth scene in the game, but its quite frustrating and you can 
 blast your way through it anyway. Youll deal with quite a few NPCs and the ultimate showdown 
 is a good one. Strangely, the game ends with a random puzzle, though its a satisfying feeling 
 once the final cut-scene starts. The story is a highlight, with several mysteries and questions 
 that are posed in the opening cut-scene answered as you progress. There is a sci-fi movie feel 
 to it, something in the mould of Total Recall but you are in the thick of the action whilst the 
 plot develops.
  
  The single player campaign took about eight hours to complete on the default level. This is a bit 
 on the short side, although some may find the incentive to try the game again on a more difficult 
 setting. Whilst there is a multiplayer component that had some interesting ideas, it was not really 
 embraced by the online community and servers now are few and far between today.
  
  I paid $AUD10 second-hand for Red Faction which is solid value for money. If you do buy it now, 
 it is only the single player game you will be able to use properly, as multiplayer is a ghost town. 
 There is also a sequel which I havent played, but I would probably pick it up if I saw it for 
 about the same price.
  
  Ultimately, Red Faction offers a serving of solid and enjoyable FPS action. Its good, but not 
 great and it is clear to see that there was potential for it to be better. However, perhaps it 
 is all the developers wanted it to be. It has a storyline that keeps you interested until the end 
 and regular frenetic action that will keep the trigger finger happy. Five years on the game does 
 suffer against modern games and the associated technology, but if you like your shooters, then 
 Red Faction is worth the few dollars it can be purchased for now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KillerG2300
Rating: 6.8
Date: Aug 3, 2006 10:44 pm PT
Review:  Well to start off playing a 2001 game in 2006 does'nt help. I could see graphics errors and other 
 things of that kind that just would turn me off. 
  
  The Graphics: even for 2001 they wherent very good, lots of washed out textures or textures stretched 
 out to far. trying to save fps by lowering poly counts on characters only make there eyes sumtimes 
 pop through their face.
  
  The AI: awful! they get stuck on things. and all get alert even if you kill someone silently. I 
 once shot a rocket straight at a guy and he didnt die.. im sorry but i think if your a human i 
 dont care who you are your gonna blow up.
  
  The Geo-Mod: very cool, surpised that we dont see this in games very often. able to shoot endless 
 tunnels in terrain and make our own doors if some are jammed
  
  The Animations: very lacking the animations in Half-Life 1 where better and that came out in 1998. 
 2 feet away the animations would start to get choppy. the running animations where over done making 
 them look like there trying to run up stairs. caracters sometimes looked as if they where skating 
 around on dirt.
  
  Physics/Collision: also awful sometimes the AI would get stuck trying to run up stairs or get stuck 
 if they turned a cornor to early, so they looked like they where trying to run into a wall. cant 
 ask for much it wasent intill 2002-2003 that ragdolls where beganing to be used. but the death 
 animations sometimes made em look like they werent dead yet, sometimes wasting precios ammo on 
 a dead body.
  
  The Story: pretty cool allthough the whole game it almost seemed as if they where struggling to 
 keep you busy while they unfolded the story
  
  other stuff: I sometimes expierinced doors that should open, fail to open and my sound would just 
 die randomly. I say its worth the play but nothing to get to hyped about. also sometimes the same 
 character would have a scripted speech to say somthing to you, but then where u just randomly clikced 
 on them their voice would be totally different 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vorlon92
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 26, 2006 8:05 am PT
Review:  Fight the Evil Corporation!!!! Lead the miner revolt. This game is a lot of fun and if you ever 
 saw Total Recall then you may definitely draw some parallels.
  
  The big thing that is hyped about red faction is the geomod. Fully destructible environments, and 
 I must admit they are fun. Say for example you enter a room and some guards are in a security both 
 off the main lobby... you could of course walk around and use the door to go in and fight them, 
 or wait for them to come to you... Why not use some heavy weapons to blow the walls out and got 
 after them, or blow the door off the booth and wade in firing. suffice it to say Geomod is a blast.
 
  
  The story is straightforward and works, fight the evil oppressor, it is always good for an excuse 
 to kill a bunch of npcs. 
  
  I sadly never played multiplayer on this back in the day. now that I reinstalled it and actually 
 tried to play multiplayer it froze my pc up. I did a little research and it seems THQ totally abandoned 
 the game, but that game is set to go to the THQ master server when you click multiplayer. End result: 
 game freezes and you can't go anywhere. It would be nice if THQ patched this or if someone has 
 a work around for it (I have yet to find one) . All I have found is online petitions for THQ to reestablish 
 or fix the multiplayer aspect.
  Bummer, it seems like it would be fun to play online with levels being progressively destroyed 
 and altered in each match.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: stevenscott14
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jul 21, 2006 2:56 pm PT
Review:  I might as well reveal this sole fact before I go into greater detail: Red Faction is a fairly 
 standard first-person-shooter. And if you're a gamer who has just completed the likes of F. E. A. R, 
 Far Cry, Half-Life 2, Prey, or any spectacular shooters along those lines, you probably will be 
 arriving at the end of Red Faction with the cold, hard knowledge that it's just another shooter, 
 really; a game that sure as hell delivers some in-your-face action, but it never goes beyond the 
 "relatively good" mark; the line that changes the game from reasonably enjoyable, to a goosebump-inducing 
 rollercoaster ride that you will never forget, no matter how many games you play afterwards.
  
  Just to deliver an introductory overview, Red Faction is a game developed by Volition and published 
 by THQ and it was unleashed upon the world almost five years ago, on September 28th, 2001. Red 
 Faction follows a decent storyline, even if it can't deliver the excitement that the plot is meant 
 to input; you're a rogue miner working on Mars for the evil company known as the Ultor Corporation. 
 After a long day's work down in the Martian mines, you see a snappy wiseass guard giving one of 
 your fellow workers some stick, and when your friend tries to stand up for himself, he gets the 
 control baton (read: metal melee weapon that carries an electrical charge when activated) turned 
 on him and in the ensuing riot, they are both killed.
  
  Such a low-scale fight turns into a catastrophic revolt, with you at the head of it. Your character, 
 Parker, is a fairly standard first-person-shooter hero, with little to no personality. He's just 
 the avatar so you can control the guns and generally shoot the hell out of everything. And Parker 
 seems hellbent on avenging his dead comrade, fixed on his total innocence and filled with hate 
 for the Ultor Corporation and everything it stands for, particularly its loathsome guards. 
  
  As you can see, Red Faction incorporates quite an intriguing, interesting storyline and the 
 revolt escalates as you advance through the corridors of Ultor's fortress, dispatching personnel 
 as you go. Soon you'll become more recognized within the faction until inevitably you're the guy 
 who the entire mining group is depending on you; the man who has high hopes riding on his shoulders. 
 
  
  Red Faction's gameplay, I'm afraid, is by-the-book shooter fare. It's the bare bones of FPS mechanics, 
 with only a few cool features added in. The only notable thing that stands out in the gameplay 
 is the GEO-MOD engine that Red Faction is built on. The name gives away the content of the engine, 
 basically the game gives you the opportunity to mod most of the geographical features and environments 
 in the game. Although this feels slightly gimmicky in most places, it works well when you just 
 want to have some fun. 
  
  For example an early stage in the game sees you walking across a balcony elevated in the top of 
 a mine tunnel, and below the walkway is an unsupported, slightly weak-looking bridge constructed 
 from rock. A convoy is travelling across the bridge at slow speeds, so the logical thing to do 
 is simply to blow a chunk in the bridge so it is thereby split into two, and the transport can 
 no longer advance. Much simpler than trying to destroy the convoy when there's about twelve miniguns 
 mounted on the top and four guards escorting it across. 
  
  But the best thing about the Geo-Mod engine is that it gives you a little bit more room for strategy 
 when usually its a standard corridor shooter with only one path through the game. Many a time you'll 
 be in the middle of a tunnel with about six guards armed with heavier weapons than you standing 
 at the end. Blow a hole in the wall and you can coop yourself up in it, providing some cover and 
 tactical resources in the fact that you can quickly pop your head in and out, taking off their 
 skulls with well-aimed sniper shots as you see fit.
  
  Another great thing is making support structures collapse on guards; for example they could be 
 stood under a guard post. Shoot the guard post's legs, and the structure falls on top of the guard. 
 Bingo! and what an idiot that guard truly was.
  
  So I've gone over the fact that the Geo-Mod engine is pretty cool, now I'll move onto possibly 
 the other thing that makes Red Faction more enjoyable than it really should be. And that is the 
 weapons. In the first hour of play you'll acquire about seven or eight weapons if you rush, including 
 the control baton, the 9mm pistol, the automatic shotgun, the flamethrower, the remote charges, 
 the assault rifle, the rocket launcher, and the sniper rifle. The fact that there is so many different 
 weapons in Red Faction makes it feel so much less claustrophobic and one-minded, and more importantly 
 it gives a little bit more scope for replay value, in the way you'll want to go back and do things 
 differently. Coupled with the cool geographical destruction, Red Faction certainly gives you a 
 fair few reasons to go back and annihilate Ultor again. 
  
  There's also some sweet weapons in the game towards the end. For example, the Magnetic Rail Driver. 
 Yes, that's as good as it sounds. Come on, you can shoot through walls at unsuspecting guards, 
 and what's more, it's a complete one-shot-kill! And then just listen to this one: the Fusion Rocket 
 Launcher. Now that sounds droolworthy, doesn't it? Yeeesss, hobbitses. Its my precious. And its 
 spectacular, as well. 
  
  Okay, thats weapons completed! The third aspect of Red Faction's gameplay that is unique and refreshing 
 are the vehicles. Okay, many shooters incorporate vehicles - hell, even Quake 4 features walkers! 
 - but as far as I know Red Faction was one of the first to do so, even before Halo, I think. Red 
 Faction has a wide range of transport, going from the awesome submarine to the jeep to the driller, 
 and each of them control surprisingly well using the mouse. 
  
  And the final feature that makes Red Faction's gameplay rawk, is the turret sections. Now these 
 will feel tacked-on to most gamers, and most will probably completely ignore them, but I don't 
 care. Satisfyingly, even if you've wiped out an entire hangar of guards and the floor is littered 
 with corpses, if you mount a turret, backup will automatically come in, and you'll have some fun 
 mowing them down with high-velocity sprays of bullets. Red Faction quite literally has a higher 
 body count than an Arnold Schwarzaneggar movie!
  
  But apart from those four things, you just can't shake off the fact that Red Faction could have 
 been so much more than just your standard corridor crawler. Rebelling against Ultor should have 
 been so much more adrenaline-pumping and more importantly, challenging - even on Medium and High, 
 Red Faction doesn't prove much of a difficult task. Ultor's guards are all clones, too - they all 
 look the same, and the AI patterns are virtually identical, so the enemies are very predictable 
 and it's not hard to guess what they are going to do next. Something that is even more pathetic 
 is the fact that when you've shot them enough they will run off, hands in the air, saying "I don't 
 want to die!" or "I hate Ultor too." Sure, it gives you an enormous sense that you are the one 
 with the life-or-death advantage, but Ultor's guards should not be such obvious sissies.
  
  Red Faction also suffers from a severe lack of variety. Apart from the few and far-between sections 
 where a turret or a vehicle is briefly available, its just a corridor crawler. Its a painfully 
 linear, straightforward experience. There is only one path through the game and that path is swarming 
 with guards who materialize out of nowhere and come running at you, all guns blazing, without taking 
 a thought for any form of cover or strafing. 
  
  Though still, you can't beat the satisfaction of completely annihilating a guard with something 
 called a Fusion Rocket Launcher. 
  
  Now onto the technical standpoint - graphics and audio in Red Faction, ashamedly, are a bit "meh." 
 The visuals are okay, by all means, but they're just so identikit. The walls are usually completely 
 devoid of outstanding detail, and environments just aren't impressive. The cutscenes are simply 
 horrible, so its a good thing that there is only about three in the entire game. But the character 
 models are the real bad point. The miners are clones, they are all dressed in customary red and 
 they all have the same faces, with about two variations. The guards are even worse; I think there 
 are only about three types in the game, not including mercenaries. Though still it pains me to 
 nitpick, overall Red Faction's graphics do the job even if Volition don't aim for anything flashy. 
 
  
  The audio is also strictly average, with barely any effort put in. All the guards have the same 
 voices and the same boring, cliched catchphrases. "There he is!" "Die, Miner!" "Scum!" "Die, traitor!" 
 It just gets so repetitive that you'll want to turn your speakers off. The music in the game is 
 also recycled throughout, and there's certainly no atmospheric musical score like the ones featured 
 in games like Halo 2 and Half-Life 2. The audio is utterly forgettable. 
  
  And forgettable is the whole game, it is evident. Red Faction is not by any means a memorable experience. 
 After the main game you may feel a temptation to play through again just to see the capabilities 
 of Geo-Mod in a different way, but other than that its not a game thats going to keep you enthralled 
 for very long. But while you are enthralled, all you have to remember is that there's nothing more 
 satisfying than simply firing a gun. For a quick, short thrill, Red Faction may be just the thing 
 to hold you over for a while. 
  
  All things considered, this is a relatively good shooter, but the bad thing is it never goes beyond 
 that "relatively good" mark, and thats why you'll forget about Red Faction almost immediately after 
 the credits roll. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Advocate
Rating: 7
Date: May 31, 2006 12:03 am PT
Review:  When this game came out I was one of the first to rush out and buy it. I played it for hours and 
 hours and found it to be one fun game. I loved being able to blow holes in walls and stuff like 
 that but over all, the game was too short. Multiplayer was lame to the degree that no one played 
 it.
  
  I was really hoping that at some point they would release an expansion pack but they never did. 
 I eventually sold the game to a freind who still plays it because he has no other games to play. 
 : ( 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redfaction_fast
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 30, 2006 10:55 pm PT
Review:  Red faction, the geo modded game of the future, well was until red faction 2 was released.
  but evan the red faction 2 has a better geo mod engine, beta ai, i still play red faction 1 online, 
 graphics might seem a little old, but its great, wepaons all there own personallity lol... this 
 game has a pretty good story line, ay, it has to start some place hehe.
  the setting is mars, there minors dieing of the plague, gaurds treat you badly, and in return eos, 
 (leader of the red faction) call the minors to group at a transport shuttle, how ever thats where 
 things start to get nasty, its shoot shoot shoot, dodge, crouch jump shoot some more.. this is quite 
 a good single player game, apart from the fact that the ai/bots are totaly stupid. but the good 
 part about it all is, the GEO MOD engine :)
  you have the ability to blast holes in wales, dig tunnells around enemys, and destroy the levels.
 
  the difficulty is abit hard at the start, seein as you start of wiff only a control batton, then 
 later on you only have a pistal against sub machine guns an alot of gaurds to shoot them. :P
  but after al that online multiplayer is fantasicly fun...
  go have some fun :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adamtwilliams
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 2, 2006 11:59 am PT
Review:  ill make it short and sweet, as I know that what I look for in a review
  
  Story - very immersive, feels like your really care for the rebellion. disease, corruption and 
 action.
  
  atmosphere - I thought it was very similar to the doom series, but without the zombies. Thinking 
 about it, its exactly like "total recall". It has the mine, the corrupt leaders and a rebellion. 
 
  
  replay - I played the ps2 verion, and now im getting the pc version. There are so many ways to 
 enjoy this game. single player, and multiplayer. The multiplayer is extreemely fun, as there is 
 destructive enviroments. I played with a friend and we spent hours on the same map, shooting rockets 
 at each others base, blowing huge holes in the walls. I actually enjoyed it more than the origional 
 half-life, as it has more variation, and you dont feel trapped indoors all the time, as you spend 
 some time on the planet surface (mars) . allthough not a lot of time is spent here, it is still 
 nice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: superelite2688
Rating: 7.9
Date: Apr 20, 2006 12:03 am PT
Review:  red faction is a decent fps and in its day was quite superb.
  
  the game has a decent multiplayer and singleplayer both enjoyable
  
  the singleplayer has a 
 decent story and the combat develops as the game progresses it has some good shooting scenes and 
 even a stealth lvl which adds some diffrence to the game
  
  the multiplayer is soid and well worth trying alot of fun can be had in the multiplayer. 
  
 
  the geomod technology makes the game that bit more interesting and diffrent to other fps's of 
 the time 
  
  the graphics are decent for its day and do their job well
  
  the sound is quite excellent some good tracks heighten the atmosphere at several points and this 
 appears to support the game nicely
  
  red faction is a decent fps and if u c it cheap is probably worth picking up to burn some hours 
 away
  
  the singleplayer is worth finishing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: evilresident666
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 16, 2006 1:57 pm PT
Review:  When Red faction came out in 2001 it was the best First Person Shooter ever. Since then other games 
 like halo and halo 2 have come out and removed red faction from its rightful place on the first 
 person shooter throne. The game had amazing graphics for its time and its graphics are still good 
 today. The destruction in a first person shooter has not been matched to this day, and the only 
 game that may match the destruction is Black (coming out february 28, 2006, this review was written 
 february 18, 2006) The game sounds great and has very good enemy A. I. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Payasoplas
Rating: 9.9
Date: Apr 12, 2006 11:38 pm PT
Review:  It doesn't matter where you play this game, on the PC or the PS2 the important thing is that you 
 play it, because it is one of the best FPS ever.
  
  The game is powered by one of the best game engines ever that allows you to destroy most walls 
 in the game, which means that you can take out enemies by destroying a bridge, also the story is 
 great, weapons are fantastic, and the graphics (for the time the game was released) are absolutely 
 great, the sound is also great.
  
  You can beat the single player campaign and go for the multiplayer wich is one of the best I have 
 ever played, you never get tired of the single player campaign and the multiplayer, you can still 
 play it again and again and again and again...
  
  Even now in 2006 the Geo Mod technology seems impressive, I would say it is as revolutionary as 
 Half-Life 2, if you want to play a great FPS go ahead an try this one, (PC or PS2, both versions 
 are worth) I promise you won't be dissappointed, even people who are not fans of FPS games think 
 this game is excellent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: woef
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 22, 2006 3:02 am PT
Review:  Hi im gonna tell ya about RF1.
  Which is a good game in some ways, but in most ways a very repeating game.
  The game takes place 
 in caves, which is kind of boring.
  
  Gameplay:
  Good, lots of weapons, enemies and maps+
  Maps are very repeating-
  Maps only take place in 
 dungeons-
  
  Graphics:
  Good style of graphics, runs very smooth+
  Some minor problems-
  
  Value:
  Value of the game is good, it has both single and multiplayer 
 options which makes the game more valuable.
  
  Sounds:
  Sounds are good, nothing too say here.
  
  Variety:
  Good, only the maps are repeating!!!.
 
  
  Online:
  Good and no lags.
  
  Well thats all i can say about RF1.
  Cya............ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: royboy2100
Rating: 6.3
Date: Feb 6, 2006 1:54 pm PT
Review:  Red Faction is probably one of those unknown games that just comes and goes to the bargin bin without 
 a chance of ever shining. Being that this game was meant for the PS2, between the two version, 
 the PC boost a more superior version then the PS2 with the save anywhere, graphic resolution and 
 online multiplayer games.
  
  The gameplay is very much comparable to Unreal 2. Its just a basic straight shooter about a desperate 
 man, Parker who becomes a miner only to be used as slave for a mega company that is totally forgetable. 
 Weapons are okay along with the vehicles that comes with it since this is one of the few games 
 that could be considered ability to use a vehicle. But otherwise, you'll finish this game within 
 a couple hours or so. Storywise, the game appears to copy the movie Total Recall
  
  Sound is very very average and to say the least, comes straight out of a B-rated movie. Music is 
 nothing but a forgetable music and some don't seem to fit the gameplay at all. Voice acting was 
 terrible on comparable level with Far Cry for the PC. Most of voices appear to be people whose 
 don't know their english very good. 
  
  Graphically, the game looks okay, but there are other more pretty games out there. It seemed every 
 texture from the PS2 was ported over. On the TV, they can get away with that because the PS2 will 
 put overlay or filters on but the PC because the resolution is sharp, it looked so and so. 
  
  Overall, Red Faction is an average that doesn't seem to try anything new. The problem with 
 the game was when it was released, Half Life, Elite Force pretty much made the game outdated. I 
 wouldn't recommend paying more then $10 dollars for this game. If you want Mars game, play Doom 
 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: terryprior
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 18, 2006 9:49 am PT
Review:  Red Faction players find themselves literally dropped into this volatile situation as they take 
 on the persona of Parker, a young, very intelligent man who came to Mars for only a year to figure 
 out what he wanted to do with his life, and regrets the decision he made. As Parker finishes his 
 shift one day, he comes across a guard that accosts a fellow worker. A second guard who turns his 
 gun on Parker quickly shoots the miner. Instilling a sense of self-preservation, Parker grabs the 
 first weapon he can reach and kills his attacker. When he looks up, he sees colleagues also assaulting 
 Ultor personnel. The revolution has begun, and Parker has found himself swept up in it. As a reluctant 
 hero, players find themselves trying to survive in an environment that has suddenly turned completely 
 hostile.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fecalproduction
Rating: 6.4
Date: Dec 1, 2005 4:46 am PT
Review:  this game has a great story line with the miners trying to free themselves from oppression, but 
 a story line does not a good game make. environments in this game are just down right cheesey and 
 the linear nature was a bit too predictable and unadventurous. graphics just look down right bad 
 in this game to me. i'm playing red faction on a pc with a good graphics card so i know it's no 
 fault of the pc. the images just look pixelated and chunky, the frame rate seems slow and awkward. 
 game play is not very smooth and controlling the character seems awkward. i'm usually a big fan 
 of scince fiction fps games, but this game just didn't do anything for me. i did find this game 
 very cheap so value scoring should be high, but the interface, controls, graphics and sounds all 
 scored low in my opinion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: squeekikleen
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jan 7, 2005 4:22 am PT
Review:  The twist would be Red Factions geo-mod technology. Its basically the ability to alter the 
 environment through demolitions and heavy weapons. Its a fantastic idea as I cannot remember how 
 many times I thought it silly in a game when a rocket launcher couldn't even put a scratch on a 
 concrete wall (or wood, or drywall for that matter!) . Although this is definitely an innovative 
 feature  and probably the highlight of the game  it is not perfect by all means. One can usually 
 only affect specified areas, and the other areas fall into the same video game nightmare of indestructible 
 surfaces. But I definitely give points for effort. Other than that, there is a decent FPS consisting 
 of a basic sci-fi setting in which you are a miner fighting against a terrible dictatorship. The 
 combat is pretty good and the weapons are good, particularly the rail-gun which lets you shoot 
 through walls. There are some bosses and vehicular levels to vary the pace  all in all, this is 
 a good shooter and worth the time for fans of the genre. I found the multiplayer pretty fun too 
 especially sice some levels required you some serious carnage. Red Faction was a nice surprise 
 as I was not expecting much, being a port from a PS2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Element_TAW
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 8, 2004 2:29 pm PT
Review:  This game is strictly average (but, not bad) . It is a straight shooter with no plot except to explain 
 the setting. You are supposedly stuck on Mars or something, and have to kill a whole bunch of people. 
 There never seems to be a peaceful resolution to problems in these video games... lol. You spend 
 most of your time in Red Faction running around and shooting people. There is a little tactical 
 and puzzle solving elements thrown into the mix, but it seems forced and out of place. Levels where 
 stealth is utilized is poorly done and not fun at all to play. The game haphazardly combines these 
 puzzles and gameplay (with a MUCH stronger emphasize on the gameplay) . After shooting your way 
 through the final level, you must solve a memory puzzle to win the game. The game then ends. No 
 big boss battle or anything interesting. I found this aspect of the game very weird. Since the 
 game is a bargain bin game now, I would recommend playing it if you have nothing better to do. 
 Then again, do not expect a rewarding experience from the game. Nothing really memorable at all 
 about it. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
