-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Red Faction II
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/redfaction2/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr 22, 2003
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 6.6, 19 Review (s)
User Score: 7.2, 552 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: THQ
Developer: Outrage Games
Genre: Sci-Fi First-Person...
Date:     Apr 9, 2003
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The game's single-player campaign is pretty short, but Red Faction II can still offer some good 
 shooting action for fans of the genre. 

  Filled with the sort of over-the-top violence and cheeky futuristic propaganda seen in Paul Verhoeven's 
 popular sci-fi films  Robocop ,  Total Recall , and  Starship Troopers , Red Faction II is a sequel 
 to 2001's popular PS2 first-person shooter. It's got all the stuff that made the previous game 
 a hit: lots of powerful weapons, lots of enemy fodder, and a number of vehicles you can ride in. 
 Unfortunately, it's not difficult to tell that Red Faction II was originally designed for the relatively 
 less powerful PlayStation 2, as this port seems somewhat watered down, with its fairly plain graphics, 
 small levels, and lack of multiplayer support (though you can play mock-multiplayer battles against 
 computer-controlled bots) . The game's single-player campaign is also pretty short, but Red Faction 
 II can still offer some good shooting action for fans of the genre.  

          Red Faction II offers up a short but action-packed single-player campaign.     

  Red 
 Faction II takes place in the same universe as the first game: the 22nd century, where humankind 
 is ruled by an evil dictatorship, and only the freedom fighters who call themselves the Red Faction 
 are able to stand in its way. Parker, the hero of the first game, is nowhere to be found here, 
 so no previous Red Faction experience is required or even expected. Instead, this sequel introduces 
 a nanotech-enhanced soldier called Alias, whom you'll play as during the course of the single-player 
 campaign. Alias is part of an elite squad developed to suppress insurgents like the Red Faction, 
 but the squad has turned its coats and now seeks to rid the world of Chancellor Sopot, the man 
 at the root of the Commonwealth's strife and poverty. The plot is pretty thin, and the twist that's 
 thrown in about halfway through seems ridiculous, but at least the story doesn't get in the way 
 of the action. In your mission to assassinate Sopot, and then quell an even greater threat, you'll 
 travel by air, sea, and land while taking on droves of enemies and numerous challenging situations 
 in a diverse and tightly paced series of levels.  

  Most single-player first-person shooters aren't very long, and Red Faction II is no exception. 
 Even though you'll run into several very tough boss battles when playing through the game at the 
 normal difficulty setting, expect to get through the campaign in approximately seven hours. As 
 if to make up for the relatively short length of the campaign, the designers apparently tried to 
 make sure that there's never a dull moment in it. The very first mission has Alias blowing an enemy 
 base to bits using a weapon that fires both rockets and grenades, and things never really let up 
 from there. The flow of the action does slow down on a couple of occasions, such as when you'll 
 be forced to outwit enemy snipers using your own high-powered long-range rifle, but even those 
 sequences are pretty intense. If you've played other sci-fi-themed shooters, you won't find much 
 in Red Faction II that's completely different from what you've seen before, but the game usually 
 hits all the right notes, doesn't get boring, and packs in lots of variety.  

          What looks like a multiplayer mode is actually a single-player botmatch. No human opponents 
 allowed.     

  Much like in the first game, the variety in Red Faction II comes largely from having an occasional 
 in-vehicle sequence to break up all the action on foot. Each of the four vehicles in Red Faction 
 II is remarkably powerful, and they all make for some entertaining shooting sequences. The vehicles 
 aren't simulated with the same level of realism as the vehicles in Halo, but they make up for it 
 to some extent with their toughness and raw firepower. When you're flying high through the air 
 between skyscrapers in the gunship or crashing through war-torn city streets in the tank, the game 
 effectively becomes a rail shooter -- you're just the gunner, and your job is to blow up any enemies 
 that get in your way as Shrike, your squad's vehicles expert, steers you through some seriously 
 hostile territory. But when you're in the submarine or the battle armor, you actually get to navigate 
 as well as shoot. All the vehicle sequences are fun while they last, even though they're relatively 
 easy and simple compared with the standard action. You'll especially like the battle armor, which 
 is basically an assault mech bristling with Gatling guns and missiles. You'll take on entire armies 
 in this thing.     

  Then again, you'll take on entire armies on foot, too. Though you'll sometimes fight alongside 
 one or two of your squadmates, you'll usually go at it alone, and a slew of high-powered, over-the-top 
 weapons are available for quickly eliminating enemies individually or in groups. The best of the 
 original Red Faction weapons have returned and are joined by a number of new ones, making for well 
 over a dozen different weapons in all, ranging from deadly small arms to devastating artillery. 
 Speaking of which, as in the first game, in Red Faction II you can use explosive weapons to literally 
 blast through walls. Certain walls, that is. The developers made a really big deal of this with 
 the original game, even though the ability didn't come into play very often. It's put to better 
 use in the sequel, where at times you'll end up making yourself an entryway if you can't find one 
 that suits you. The fact that your character is a demolitions expert certainly justifies all this. 

          Red Faction II features many of the best weapons from the original game, plus some powerful 
 new ones.     

  Explosive or not, just about every weapon of yours has an alternate firing mode or some other special 
 ability. For instance, the rail driver allows you to target and shoot enemies who are on the other 
 side of walls or obstacles. The precision rifle points you to enemies in the vicinity when you're 
 looking through its scope. All this hardware packs a satisfying punch and looks good in action, 
 though the weapon that will likely get the most use is the NICW, an assault rifle with a rocket-propelled 
 grenade launcher and a built-in targeting system, evidently modeled after the US military's next-generation 
 objective individual combat weapon. An all-purpose firearm, the NICW can get you through virtually 
 any encounter. You'll appreciate that this and most other weapons in your arsenal are so effective, 
 though you might find it odd that you can carry all the game's weapons simultaneously.  

  Too bad the game doesn't support online play. However, Red Faction II does offer a fully featured 
 botmatch mode, which can be reasonably entertaining for a while. Eight different botmatch game 
 types are available, ranging from standards like deathmatch, team deathmatch, and capture the flag 
 to variants like regime, in which one player is the "dictator" and must try to survive as long 
 as possible while all the other players try to bring him or her down. These are all pretty standard 
 multiplayer-style variants, involving either all-out shooting mayhem or goal-oriented, team-based 
 objectives.  

  Not only do Red Faction II's console roots show in its lack of multiplayer support, but its save 
 system, which auto-saves your progress in between short stages, is also held over from the original 
 versions of the game. And while the graphics do look better on the PC than on any of the console 
 counterparts, they aren't exactly state-of-the-art by PC standards. Textures are blurry and plain, 
 and in the instances where the visuals were sharpened up, you'll likely just notice other problems 
 such as the low polygon counts on the characters. The cutscenes still aren't particularly good 
 looking, though the one played when Alias finally catches up to Sopot is memorable. At least the 
 game loads quickly and runs smoothly. The original game's settings mostly consisted of bland tunnels 
 and sterile laboratories, while the sequel's rundown urban environments and sophisticated military 
 installations tend to be a little more colorful. Enemy characters are brought to life using motion-captured 
 animations, and not only do these animations look good, but you also won't notice much repetition 
 in them as you keep shooting down bad guys. The weapon models are diverse and appear appropriately 
 hefty and high tech. The game also sports some pretty nice explosions -- as well it should, for a 
 game starring a demolitions expert. Plus, the vehicles are portrayed convincingly.  

          You won't be playing this game for weeks, but it's fun while it lasts.     

  Red Faction 
 II's audio holds up better than the graphics in translation. Though the cries of enemy soldiers 
 repeat a bit too often, and some of their lines are pointlessly profane, the sounds of all your 
 various weapons and explosions are loud, clear, and effective. A high-tempo electronic music score 
 pumps in the background beneath the near-constant roar of your firearms and helps maintain the 
 game's high intensity level. The quality of the voice acting is mostly good, with the highlight 
 being Molov, the squad leader of Alias' unit, who is voiced by Lance Henriksen ( Aliens ) .  

  Red Faction II is a pretty good shooter overall, offering up a short but sweet single-player 
 campaign and a decent botmatch mode for a little extra lasting value. The game's not long on looks 
 or replay value (especially since it has no multiplayer play) , but it's got no shortage of action. 
     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (18 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: kgm0313
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 19, 2008 9:31 am PT
Review:  I bought this game at a garage sale not knowing what to expect and i loved it! you play as an elite 
 soldier in a futurific world ruled by an evil dictator you battle your way through every terrain 
 to find and kill victor sopot the evil dictator ruling the usa but after you defeat him your commander 
 turns on you and makes himself dictator then you have one more target to defeat your enemy and 
 bring the red faction back from underground. it was very fast passed but very fun the story mode 
 is very short, I beat in in about 8 hours. If you liked halo you would like this game. it has lots 
 of weapons and a bot mode that lets you battle like multiplayer with AI that you can custom create, 
 editing their health, accuracy, agility, damage, agressiveness, and camping tendency ( if they 
 wait around a corner or if they just run out and kill) . it doesn't have any multiplayer mode, but 
 still if you find it cheap BUY IT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aschuhart
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 31, 2008 12:03 am PT
Review:  ***PLEASE NOTE. My reviews are based off the single player version of the game only, since that 
 is what the game itself is based off of.***
  
  This review is going to be a bit difficult. Red Faction I, in my opinion, was merely just standard. 
 Not a bad game but also nothing to set it apart from the rest of the shooters out there and Red 
 Faction II is basically just expanded on that nothingness. 
  
  Red Faction II is pretty much like every other shooter out there. Bland story, bland weapons, bland 
 missions. Nothing that I would really call "bad" but certainly nothing that I can say improved 
 from the original. The graphics are better and everything still runs smoothly but that's all I 
 can really say about this game. Merely decent and something I wouldn't pay more than $20 at most 
 to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingLim
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 22, 2007 5:14 am PT
Review:  As a shooter, the highlights of Red Faction II often involve the stages where you get to man a 
 tank or my hot fave - the Battle Armor. The action just gets wild and over the top since you get 
 to blast through pretty much anything that moves on screen and even through walls. Yes, blasting 
 through walls is still one of the main features in the Red Faction series, but it doesn't really 
 add much to the whole game actually.
  
  Normally, most shooters have a variety of weapons that have shortcut keys from 1 to 0 and that's 
 about it, but in Red Faction II, another great feature is that it contains over 14 combinations 
 of weapon types and configurations and that's very much appreciated while you trudge through the 
 somewhat dull level designs generally.
  
  The visuals look quite flat in fact and the sound design generic for a sci-fi shooter, so nothing 
 much to look forward to technically except that you can be sure the action will be very smooth 
 given the simple design. Also, be prepared to just finish it in less than 10 hours even if you 
 are just an FPS amateur.
  
  KingLim 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chandu83
Rating: 5.5
Date: Oct 12, 2007 7:50 pm PT
Review:  Red Faction 2 is a sequel to the fairly successful Red Faction (obviously) . Red Faction 2 explores 
 the situation back on earth in 22nd century, 5 years after the uprising on Mars.
  
  For 15 years Chancellor Victor Sopot has oppressed the people on Earth belonging to the Commonwealth. 
 You play the role of Alias, a demolitions expert, who is a part of a 6 member rebel group united 
 to put an end to the tyranny of the evil Chancellor. As you play the game, you will find that the 
 story takes a few unexpected twists. I will not reveal them of course, but things get really interesting 
 half way through the game.
  
  First, let us talk about the good parts. The gameplay itself is very similar to its predecessor. 
 The popular Geo Mod once again is in focus here, and this time, it plays a greater role than the 
 previous game. Battles throughout the game take an advantage of the Geo Mod, and you are never 
 quite safe when hiding behind a wall or a barricade, because it can be destroyed with the right 
 kind of weapon. This makes the gameplay challenging and the battles can be quite intense at times.
 
  
  The weapons are quite good. There are all kinds of different weapons to be had in this game. Playing 
 with these toys is a lot of fun, especially because of the destructive environments.
  
  The sound is very solid throughout the game. Explosions are quite well done and the speech is very 
 clear and the story is easy to follow.
  
  But I am afraid the good part is over.
  
  I do have some complaints about the graphics. This game is a PS 2 port, so the graphics seem very 
 dull and dreary at times. I am not really impressed with the visuals in general. The game almost 
 looks the same as Red Faction 1, which was released almost 2 years ago.
  
  There were no real changes from the PS 2 version of the game, its a straight forward port, albeit 
 there are slightly better particle effects, but thats about it. I feel that PC gamers deserve 
 better visuals than the dated PS 2. Obviously it was a money making scheme to release the game 
 on PC because everything virtually remains unchanged.
  
  Also, the game is more like an arcade shooter than a serious action game. The game is terribly 
 short... it can be completed in one evening without any difficulty. So PC gamers are going to feel 
 terribly cheated out of a good shooter that they would have expected to see, after the solid content 
 the first game delivered.
  
  Over all, I am quite disappointed with this title. I expected some solid gameplay, but it was over 
 before I knew it. I finished it in a matter of 6 hours of casual gaming.
  
  Even though there are some very interesting aspects, all said and done, unless you are a fan of 
 the series or manage to get it at a super discount price, I dont see any reason why this game 
 is worth buying, there are plenty of good games which are worth your while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: majesticcryx
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 4, 2007 3:29 pm PT
Review:  This console-port sequel to Red Faction is entertaining enough to distract you when theres nothing 
 good on TV. The developers at Volition have rejected any hint of plot development in favor of an 
 action-movie mood where anything that doesnt blow up or die aint worth a damn.
  
  As a result, Red Faction IIs key selling point is that it scores huge in the Mayhem Department. 
 You can indulge in destructive delights right off the bat armed with a grenade launcher, a machine 
 gun, and a cannon called the WASP, which fires armor-piercing rockets. I was firing anti-personnel 
 bombs and a railgun (RFs rail driver, back in action) a couple of hours after starting play. Immediately 
 ratcheting up the carnage makes the first level here seem like the fourth or fifth level in another 
 shooter, in that you can chuck the shrinking-violet act and go full-bore Rambo right away. Unfortunately, 
 the result of skipping the more traditional (and plodding) pistol- and shotgun-only opening levels 
 is a pretty short experience: I was able to get through RF II in seven hours, disappointing even 
 for todays shortened shooters.
  
  The Stalinists in Space story of Red Faction briefly reappears, but the plot never gets more 
 complex than chasing Chancellor Sopot and pretending to interact with a six-man squad of genetically 
 enhanced super-soldiers. You play demolition man Alias for the entire game, and comrades like heavy 
 gunner Repta and sniper Quill are mere window dressing for level objectives. This teamwork usually 
 involves them laying down covering fire while you complete a goal, as in the third level when I 
 had to plant bombs on a bridge while Quill watched my back.
  
  Otherwise, level design is FPS 101. I killed bad guys in brown sewers, Sarajevo-like cities, crate-strewn 
 warehouses, and sterile military bases. At least the soldiers, zombies, and robots that you fight 
 are colorful, and even smart enough to take cover and use flanking maneuvers. Further breaking 
 up the steady progress are sequences where you shoot up apartment buildings and planes from a helicopter 
 gunship, and demolish city blocks with a tank. At one point you even get to wear a battlemech suit 
 and shred foes with quad cannons and a rocket launcher. These sections generally run on rails, 
 although the target practice was so fast-paced, and the mayhem of the destructible terrain so satisfying, 
 that I didnt care.
  
  I cared more about weak game options and frills. Red Faction II was originally developed for the 
 PS2 without multiplayer support, so the PC version has bot matches in place of online and LAN capabilities. 
 The graphics and sound are a couple of years behind the times, which is annoying in spots even 
 though RF IIs environments are mostly destructible and the tough-guy movie dialogue (Resistance 
 heavy. Outnumbered 15 to one. Situation under control.) is hilariously dumb. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: linmukai
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 15, 2006 1:26 pm PT
Review:  Red Faction II is a fun and action packed shooter with lots of variety in the weapons and levels 
 it runs you though. It's linear and it's pretty much old school standard shooter fare but that's 
 not necessarily a bad thing. It runs short taking somewhere around 10 hours to play or less but 
 that's also not a bad thing, especially given the sort of shooter it is. If it ran much longer 
 I think it would become boring but as it is, you move from one mission to the next at a good pace 
 and each offers some unique aspect of play and associated weaponry, not that you haven't seen everything 
 here before.
  
  The sci-fi setting is pretty good and the story while not exactly compelling, is good enough to 
 lend some purpose to what you are doing. The music fits well and ranges from tense action to even 
 creepiness in a couple spots. The voice acting is passable which is to say its neither great nor 
 is it annoying. There is just enough of it to keep that action moving and it serves it purpose 
 well enough.
  
  Your AI (and I use the term very loosely here) squadmates are really just window dressing. While 
 they offer very little help in battle other than tagging along and telling you things to watch 
 out for occasionally, for the most part they at least don't get in your way. There was one particularly 
 annoying time one of my goon squad decided to guard a door so well that after I planted charges 
 he wouldn't move no matter how I manuvered around or tried to push him until the timer went off, 
 the building blew up and I died because idiot boy wouldn't get the hell out of my way so I could 
 safely exit. At least I can tell you, that only happened once. The only other time I suffered with 
 the AI I had to laugh as I pushed one of my lady friends up two flights of stairs (she could be 
 pushed for some reason) because she was too dumb to move on her own or get the heck out of the 
 way so I could advance.
  
  The graphics are dated but they are serviceable enough. They are not bad such that it takes away 
 from the enjoyment of the gameplay but they are certainly not going to wow you either. I would 
 think that for the year this was made, 2003, they could have been better but again, they were good 
 enough.
  
  The important thing here is that the gameplay itself is fun. Blowing holes in the environment, 
 sometimes necessarily so to advance, is fun. There are multiple times you pilot a vehicles ranging 
 from tanks to subs to robotic armor suits and in every case, it's basically shooting gallery time 
 but its fun and provides a nice change of pace.
  
  The weapons are a mixed bag and you will find yourself relying primarily on several of them. There 
 were some I almost never used at all. Nonetheless, the good ones are good and have a satisfying 
 punch to them in sound and effect.
  
  Being a console port, this lacks a save anywhere system but fortunately, the checkpoints and transitions 
 it saves at come so frequently it really isn't a problem. I would normally dislike this a lot but 
 in this case it was actually a convenience and sometimes added a little to the tension but never 
 led to frustrating replays of long sequences of play if I died.
  
  Unfortunately, there was no multiplayer not that it would matter now as we near the end of 2006. 
 The original Red Faction multi player was fun and I think they should have included it here however. 
 People would have enjoyed that when the game was new. In particular, the geomod feature of being 
 able to blow holes in the environment would have added some fun gameplay to multiplayer such as 
 blowing away sniper's cover, etc. But it was not to be for whatever reason. Instead, they implemented 
 a bot match feature for offline pseudo multi player and actually it was kind of fun for a little 
 while but of course, bots will never hold your interest the way real human opponents do. I'm sure 
 this was tacked on for console gamers who had no multiplayer last generation and it seems kind 
 of silly to have this in a PC version really by itself.
  
  All in all I'll give this game a thumbs up for being a fun shooter even though it is simple and 
 old school. There's a reason we loved games of this kind before more sophisticated ones came along. 
 They are simple to pick up and are just plain fun to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FPSGunnerDude
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 9, 2006 8:51 pm PT
Review:  Red faction 2 is an all around average game. If they would have given it better graphics it could 
 have been good or great. The action and gameplay is solid. Well, semi solid, since some of the 
 enemies are kind of lifeless. The story is OK. The biggest problem is the graphics. They are very 
 very bland. I feel that the graphics in the first were better at least for quality. I can't understand 
 why they didn't work harder on them.
  
  This game is worth playing if your looking for a quick fix between the next great shooter. But, 
 don't expect graphics at 2003 levels. More like 2003 that look like 1998. They are very bland and 
 boring. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grantcorp
Rating: 6.8
Date: Aug 19, 2006 3:09 am PT
Review:  Having played the original Red Faction your first impressions will be that these two games have 
 very little in common, and unfortunately that the original was the better PC game. RF2 has a console 
 feel to it, with bland graphics and primitive save system.
  
  I am usually quite forgiving about lackluster production if the entertainment is good, but sadly 
 RF2 misses out here as well. The so called story is a quick amalgamation of the most cliched components 
 of sci-fi shooters, you face an over the top dictator, the walking dead, betrayal and bersoldiers 
 with glowing eyes. All the voice acting is hollow and uninspired, and most of it is drowned in 
 the mayhem anyway.
  
  There are loads of weapons to choose from. Overall they're fun to wield, although many are underpowered, 
 and I've never played an FPS where you get the feeling you do nothing but reload weapons so often. 
 The much flaunted Geo-Mod technology is what sets Red faction apart from the competition, and the 
 ability to blast through walls is the best feature of the game. Sadly, it isn't put to use very 
 often, but in the places where it is featured it adds a lot of immersion and experimentation to 
 the fighting, although you remain on rails most of the time.
  
  Overall, RF2 offers some good distraction, but it won't be long before you go back to your favourite 
 shooters again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vorlon92
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 26, 2006 8:13 am PT
Review:  Red faction II is a beautiful game, and it is fun to play, sound is good, overall a fun shooter.... which 
 failed to capitalize on red faction I.
  
  Red Faction I had a great feel, was fun to play, responsive, and currently only lacks online play 
 due to THQ being obstinate. 
  
  Red Faction II doesn't really have online play as far as I can tell, the premise is weak, and the 
 oppressive evil empire feel of red faction I is completely gone. 
  
  if you never played red faction I then you will most likely enjoy this much more. If you played 
 red faction I prepare to be slightly disappointed. you will most likely find yourself wondering 
 why the sequel isn't much better than it is.
  
  I have since uninstalled rf2 and just keep 1 installed as it is much more fun to play
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: naztwelve
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 19, 2006 6:46 pm PT
Review:  yes my sister got the ps2 version after her friend was really into it and well i got into it from 
 there, got the pc version yesterday. the graphics arnt as hot but the game is still great. this 
 game would be still played like counterstrike if it had an online multiplayer section... i suppose 
 its just the time it came out... i highly recommend both ps2 and pc version to anyone thinking 
 about it. the ps2 is more recommended tho because you can play multiplayer with friends, which 
 believe me u will be playing for ages if you have some people to play against! in the PC version 
 you can play multiplayer against the bots. and can i say that the bots have decent AI unless you 
 pwn at the game. 
  
  modes in the multiplayer include - ctf, dm, team dm, bagman, team bagman, arena, team arena. 
 
  
  A big frag fest! and a good storyline 
  
  ps2 version highly recommended 
::::::

::::::
UserName: evilresident666
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 16, 2006 1:54 pm PT
Review:  Red Faction 1 is my favorite First Person Shooter of all time. So when i played Red faction 2 i 
 almost had a heart attack because of my disappointment. Its not that this game is bad, because 
 it is a good game but there is no way in hell it is comparable to the original. This game has amazing 
 graphics and smart A. I just like the first red faction, but the game is so different from red faction 
 1 that i couldnt believe this was actually the sequel to red faction. The game controls alot better 
 than the original because this is for xbox and i played red faction 1 on the ps2. If you like shooting 
 games you should check this out, if you were a fan of the orignal be prepared to be disappointed 
 beyond belief. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: woef
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 25, 2006 10:20 am PT
Review:  For the second time, this game is repeating just like the first one.
  The game is not bad though.
  The graphics overwhelm all the other stuff and online is good too.
 
  
  Gameplay:
  +Good variety between weapons.
  +Bot deathmatch
  -Repeating maps
  -Only a few vehicles
  
  Graphics:
  Good and smooth.
  No lags online, runs smooth online.
 
  
  Sounds:
  Not very much too tell here, but the sounds are average.
  
  Variety:
  The variety between maps is bad.
  Good variety between weapons.
  
  Value:
  Average value.
 
  Single player isnt good at all.
  Online and bot match is very good.
  
  Online:
  Good and smooth.
  
  Well that was my review for RF2, good points and bad points :P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: royboy2100
Rating: 3.2
Date: Feb 6, 2006 2:10 pm PT
Review:  Red Faction 2 is a backward followup to Red Faction. The first thing you'll notice is there isn't 
 anything related from Red Faction. The whole game puts you in the shoes of a tough ex-soldier who 
 is fighting with a super squad against a Joseph Stalin wannabe figure. He even wears a hat like 
 Stalin too. 
  
  The gameplay is so and so. I finished the game within less then eight hours. With great games during 
 the time of release, there was other games that completely blew it away into the bargin bin. The 
 first thing any PC gamer would notice is the lack of the save anywhere. The second is the complete 
 absent of the multiplayer portion. The only thing resembling multiplayer is bot match. It would 
 appear that Outrage Games have made so much money that they're just milking the whole Red Faction 
 series. Not a good idea.
  
  The music and sound is just gone from this game. At certain or random times, the game's sound would 
 just stop working. At least I thought the game crashed, but it turned out the game isn't making 
 the sounds anymore. 
  
  Graphically, this game looks terrible. Even Red Faction was alot better then this game. 
  
 
  Unfortunately since I bought the game, I wish I could refund this game or sue the game developers 
 for developing a terrible game in the first place. But since it is sold by my own free will, nothing 
 can be done. But I can make a differences by warning others especially you the reader. Avoid this 
 one like the plague. Period. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: differentiation
Rating: 1.4
Date: Dec 25, 2005 7:28 pm PT
Review:  When the first Red Faction came out, I played the demo and I disliked it right away. The feel of 
 the game wasn't right for me, I was much more used to games like Half-Life, in that the character 
 was able to move with a reasonable amount of agility. When playing as Parker, the movement was 
 limited and slow in terms of response time, and the mouse options didn't help. Back then, I played 
 Half-Life on the "Hard" setting and consistently ranked in the top 3 in CS, but in Red Faction 
 I had to tone down the difficultly because it was not only hard to maneuver, but hard to aim with 
 the mouse. Sure, the guy is in a semi-spacesuit, but as a FPS I think the developers should've 
 done a better job.
  
  Anyway, I decided to give Red Faction II a shot when I saw it at Best Buy in the bargain bin, turned 
 out it only cost $1.99 + Tax! I decided that there was nothing to lose and guess what, Red Faction 
 II was even worse than the first. The aiming and movement felt much better, but there was a serious 
 problem during gameplay when the screen splits and rips up into random lines of various colors 
 stretching across the screen. I couldn't even get past the first level with that issue - everything 
 around me would become distorted with every step I took! I downloaded the patch but it didn't address 
 that issue. In conclusion, this was a game ridden with technical difficulties. I'm lucky enough 
 to have only spent a few dollars on this piece of junk. Judging by the release date, it seems as 
 THQ was eager to pump out another sequel after the first Red Faction success and neglected the 
 important aspects such as screen splitting! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KnarfKenobi
Rating: 8.2
Date: Apr 20, 2006 9:06 am PT
Review:  No great story, not always so smart a. i... but very nice to play! Although it isn't a very good 
 game, I've had a very funfull time with this game, It's plays very good. The grapichs aren't so 
 ugly, except for the multiplayer version. The weapons are cool. But I had the feeling that in the 
 1st Red Faction you can make a bigger mess, more destruction. There are some great levels, but 
 there are also some levels I really hate and never play again after I've finished the game. But 
 that isn't so bad, so that I hate the whole game... in fact I'm secretly a little fan of the Red 
 Faction Series. I think it's good for this game that it doesn't get in the spotlights, so there 
 aren't so high suspections of this game, so that the game gets better. If you get what I'm trying 
 to say. That's a big problem with games: in the promotion campagnes they let you believe that there 
 aren't better games, and when you finnaly playing that game, it really dissapoints... but further 
 about Red Faction 2. The multiplayer is fun, not really enormous good or something like that. 
 
  There are better games, but for the price that you have this one in the Netherlands (12 euros) 
 you really have a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sniper
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 12, 2005 12:45 am PT
Review:  Oh boy! This is the second time I've played Red Faction II, and this time around, I finished the 
 game in less than a day. That might be a new record for me -- it always takes a long time for me 
 to finish these things. I'm not sure why I like this shooter, when I've got other Triple-A titles 
 in my collection, but for some reason I do indeed dig it. Maybe it's because Red Faction II keeps 
 things simple.
  
  Unlike the vastly overrated, buggy and un-fun original, this sequel is satisfying in a bubble-gum 
 sort of way. You unwrap it, chew on it for a short time, then spit it out, guilt-free. Anyway, 
 here's the plus and minus score: There's no multi-player, just bot matches. That's okay with me, 
 since I buy single-player games to avoid stupid people. No matter how high you crank the resolution, 
 it still looks like a bland, washed-out PlayStation 2 port. While the levels are bereft of detail, 
 the weapons in hand are sharp. The voice acting is great, but the "story" those actors tell is 
 barely there. No matter -- just shoot stuff, and quit thinking. The variety of firepower available 
 is nice, Nice, NICE! Not only do you get lots of guns, there's plenty of ways to deploy them. A 
 tank (Boom!) , submarine, gunship and mech each give you the opportunity to smash, crush, explode 
 and blast everything that moves. Suffice to say the action really is non-stop.
  
  But, let's face it, all that action isn't anything special. Which is why I'm glad Red Faction II 
 didn't require a huge investment of my time. Now I can get back to the heavy games after jawing 
 on this appetizer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctor_kaz
Rating: 7.2
Date: Nov 14, 2003 5:41 am PT
Review:  I call this: "Testosterone: The Game". "Red Faction 2" is a very enjoyable, action-packed, and 
 somewhat mindless shooter full of big weapons and lots of explosions. Were it not for the mediocre 
 graphics and short length, it would be an excellent shooter. 
  
  Like the first "Red Faction", this game uses the Geo Mod engine, which allows you to destroy stuff 
 and blow holes in walls. The Geo Mod feature is used extensively in this game, unlike the first 
 "Red Faction", and it adds a lot to the game. It does a good job of feeding that primal desire 
 that you have to blow stuff up. A lot of the game's environments are destructible. You can take 
 a look around the room sometimes after a big battle and see all of the carnage that has been done. 
 In some areas, you may attempt to find cover, but if an enemy has grenades or rockets, then he 
 can blow your cover away. You can get into a few extra rooms and areas by blowing holes in the 
 walls.
  
  The action for the game rarely bogs down or gets boring. After a few shooter levels, you usually 
 get a vehicle ride, during which you get to ride in the gunner's seat and mow down bad guys with 
 a heavy turret or a rocket launcher. In one scene, you get to ride around in a tank blasting away 
 with the cannon while your wisecracking driver rampages through the streets smashing up buildings. 
 The vehicles in the first game were much better, since you actually got to drive them too, but 
 they still make for a fun chane of pace here. The game has the console checkpoint save system that 
 we all love to hate, but the save points are spaced so close together that you will hardly even 
 notice. 
  
  The plot for the game is simple, but it is enjoyable, and it actually has a decent twist or two 
 in it. There is no attempt to be something that it isn't. The entire game is like a B-movie action 
 film, complete with macho taunts and death lines. The script is charmingly cheesy, and the voice 
 acting is decent. Lance Henriksen, in fact, voices one of the important characters in the game, 
 and he does a very good job. The different squad members in the game actually have enough variety 
 in their personalities and traits to give the game some character. 
  
  The game is so short though, that it is hard to justify paying full price for it. The first time 
 through, I finished it in about 8 hours, and the second time through, I finished it in about 6. 
 The game has different ending cut scenes, depending upon how you play through the game, but I still 
 probably won't play it again. Another problem that this game has is outdated graphics. They are 
 about 2 years or so behind the curve, and even with low object detail, the frame rate sometimes 
 bogs down. Some of the cut scenes in the game are AWFUL. Lip-synching is nonexistent. Characters 
 move their mouths worse than talking mechanical dummies at an amu****t park. 
  
  If you played "Red Faction" and were kind of disappointed by the lack of use of the Geo Mod engine, 
 then you might want to pick up "Red Faction 2". Or, if you just need something to satisfy your 
 urge for a good shooter, then it will be a good purchase for you.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cepheid
Rating: 3.3
Date: Apr 24, 2003 3:36 am PT
Review:  After a few nauseating hours of running around red factions environments, I was forced to turn 
 of my computer in a desperate attempt to keep my breakfast from leaving my system the wrong way.
 
  This games feel is so removed from reality that my mind apparently couldn? t adapt. Upon contemplation 
 I would like to state the following facts about this horrendous game.
  First a foremost your enemies have nothing else in common with real people than their humanoid 
 shape. Bullets leave no trace on your foes only the occasional bloodstain on a wall or something, 
 even though they do fall down or explode into some unstable red blobs which disappear before they 
 hit anything. Also they float around as if they aren't a part of the gaming world, spooky!!! One 
 last thing do not attempt to shoot at them before they are ready, you can only harm them when they 
 allow your to.
  Second its a dark world, at the time I had to quit the game for the health reasons mentioned earlier, 
 I was running around in some dark underground environment with constantly spawning small seeker 
 robots accompanied by shotgun totering villains (read cops) . I probably had to blast something 
 wide open to get out, but I didn't know one dark corner from another. I guess the gamma and brightness 
 settings aren't what they should be on my graphics card!
  Third and lastly. What in the world where your thinking volition! I fell in love with Freespace, 
 I still worship Freespace2, I adored Summoner, liked Red Faction.... What is this abomination? 
 from where did it spawn? surely It could not have been from Volition studies.
  There is a thousand more issues but I will stop here delete RF2, burn the disks from whence it 
 came and try to forget the best I can.
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
