-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Redline
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/driving/redline/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: May  3, 1999
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.6
Critic Score: 6.7, 19 Review (s)
User Score: 8.3, 60 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Accolade
Developer: Beyond Games
Genre: Racing
Date:     Mar 31, 1999

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Though it is a better game from behind the wheel than on foot, individual scenarios often require 
 switching modes at critical junctures. 

 Accolade's Redline is a rather ambitious undertaking: It is both a mission-based driving game and 
 a first-person shooter. Though it is a better game from behind the wheel than on foot, individual 
 scenarios often require switching modes at critical junctures. This makes for some hair-raising 
 gameplay.  

 You work for The Company, an evil corporation among still more nefarious gangs and religious cults 
 in a futuristic dystopia. Like in Mad Max, the rule of the day is: "He who has the most car wins." 
 Cars are more powerful than people. They're armor-plated; you're not. They have superpowered force 
 cannons... well, all right, you have those too. More importantly, they can run you over, and you 
 can only run. Plus, if your car is destroyed, you simply jump out. If you are destroyed, the results 
 should be fairly obvious.  

 Controlling vehicles in Redline is a joy. Powerslides, powerslides, powerslides. Tons of cool weapons. 
 Better still, tons of different cars. And the different vehicles that come up throughout the game 
 don't just differ in thickness of armor plating, relative sluggishness, etc. They're totally unique 
 beasts, one to the next. Case in point, level four's hover vehicle, whose turning radius is a matter 
 of millimeters but whose brake-locking powerslide (for obvious reasons) is nonexistent. Said joy 
 must be earned, however, as Redline requires dozens of keys to control, even with a joystick or 
 mouse. You have the capacity to steer in one direction, aim a discrete crosshair, and shoot side-mounted 
 machine guns simultaneously. A steep learning curve, but worth it.   

 The first-person controls aren't particularly bad; they just don't compare to the vehicle's. All 
 your basic controls are present, such as mouse look, strafing, jumping, etc. The multiplayer game 
 features the why-be-normal option to turn your default weapon (a circular saw) into a vehicle (think 
 "minihelicopter") . Unfortunately, control itself is tentative and certainly boasts nothing new. 
 With last year's barrage of more-innovative competition (like Half-Life, Thief) , the first-person 
 component of Redline falls flat initially. It's the way the missions combine the two types of play 
 that really drives the game.   

 Redline is played in a series of missions that send you into enemy territory, sometimes alone, sometimes 
 not, to retrieve stolen cars, steal new prototype hover vehicles, blow up mega-orgone power plants, 
 destroy airplanes before they take off, and so forth. There's a lot of variation, both in the missions' 
 look and feel, as well as in the strategy required to win. This is where the interplay between 
 the two types of games (driving vs. running around) really sets Redline apart from previous hybrids. 
 The game uses the weakness of the pedestrians as a device in the game. It's totally nerve-wracking 
 to repeatedly get out of your car and become totally vulnerable, just to push a button and open 
 a door. Some missions contain giant combat arenas with so many enemies that you can't hope to survive 
 the entire match without abandoning your tired steed for a fresh one. But the 30 yards you have 
 to run to get it are spent dancing in an agonizing hail of bullets. And just when you begin to 
 truly master driving, and you tell yourself that you'll never leave the warm faux-leather interior 
 again, you're given a mission that requires that you drive a bomb car through enemy forces and 
 deposit it in the center of a reactor. Thus the tables are turned, and you now feel totally claustrophobic 
 and trapped in one (mortal, imperfect, slow) van for an entire mission. Despite the shortcomings 
 of the first-person component of the game, the fact remains that it's just plain scary to walk 
 around in some of these places.  

 Redline is a handsome game, and it sounds good - in action. During actual play, the visuals are 
 great. As would be expected, there's plenty of vehicular manslaughter and hapless pedestrians that 
 explode in no small amount of gore when trampled underfoot (er, wheel) . (Though how hapless is 
 anyone carrying a rocket launcher, really?) . In-game sound is terrific, and the game makes excellent 
 use of the stereo field for enemy detection, though it's no challenge to the reigning champion, 
 Thief. That said, the inter-mission movies are always long and offer tiresome graphical loops of 
 you and your boss conversing ad nauseam.   

 Multiplayer play is great and is free on Mplayer and Heat. Most worlds favor the novice, with battlefields 
 littered with power-ups and the more-powerful weapons. Little search is required to get your hands 
 on the rocket launcher. The interplay between vehicular and man-to-man combat is, again, the most 
 dynamic element of play. Sure, cars are more powerful, but they aren't as well suited as a man 
 on foot to find the sweet spots and superior vantage points.  

 The bottom line is that Redline is neither the next Interstate '76 nor the next Quake. Anyone looking 
 for either will be disappointed. However, if you take it for what it is, and have the patience 
 to master the controls and see some of the variation the numerous level designs offer, you won't 
 be disappointed.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (1 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Xanarki
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 7, 2008 2:14 pm PT
Review:  It's the year 2066. Former scientists have turned the world into a large crap hole, and now they 
 all live inside domed cities with clean oxygen. Everyone calls them The Insiders. But just like 
 the inside of something, there's always an outside. The ones whom managed to survive in the field, 
 and the ones who fight for survival, are called, you guessed it, The Outsiders. 
  
  Gameplay  Here's what makes Redline different from other PC shooter games. It's car combat, combined 
 with a first-person shooter element. Meaning, you can exit your car at anytime. This will switch 
 into a first-person shooter mode, in which you will have a variety of weapons to choose from, including 
 a machine gun, shotgun, sniper, gauss cannon, and others. But the vehicles do have weapons too. 
 In fact, each vehicle in the game has at least two unique weapons. If your vehicle were to get 
 blown up, you'd take some damage, and are automatically ejected from the blown-up vehicle. This 
 is when fear will take over. When you got about two or three vehicles coming right at you, taking 
 cover is definitive. But since most car combat battles are in an open area, it's hard to run away.
 
  
  As for the levels, there are 12. Each one provides an interesting briefing at the beginning, explaining 
 the mission. One mission requires quick thinking, due to the player's car being sealed tight with 
 a bomb attached to it. Another mission requires constant firing from a raiding group of enemies. 
 Each one varies, and in addition, each mission has loads and loads of secrets. Secret rooms, secret 
 cars, secret easter eggs filled up each level.
  
  The game doesn't have set difficulty levels, so expect some parts of the game to be hard, and then 
 some to be real easy. But it all depends on how much health the player has/how much ammo the player 
 has. This makes the game harder at times.
  
  Video  The graphics seemed rushed. The explosions of the cars, separation of an enemies' body, 
 and other minor things are very nice and well done. Yet, the player models look blocky and slow. 
 In addition, the surrounding land seemed unbalanced and rough. Also expect to see small glitches, 
 such as a floating barrel at times.
  
  The levels, in general, are well created. The first level takes place in a city called Stadium 
 City. A surrounding large arena surrounds the city, as broken down cars, buildings, and the like 
 are scattered around. Another level takes the player throughout a rival gang's headquarters, which 
 is just weird. Bodies posted on crosses, weird symbols on the walls, and a giant spider statue, 
 among other things, simply crept me out.
  
  Audio  The music is pure kickass. Can't think of any other word. It's energetic, building, whatever 
 word (s) you'd use. And the music cues at the perfect times to, such as the beginning of the level, 
 or the climax of the mission. The voice actors' did a well job. The main player doesn't get any 
 lines, as he's the silent type. His boss throughout the game, Liddy, has that deep and serious 
 tone. The main antagonist, Rant, is just rough and hard as hell to understand. But then again, 
 Rant is a huge red monster, so I guess it's realistic.
  
  Controls  Now controlling the vehicles is one thing. It's pretty basic, you use the keyboard to 
 make turns/accelerate/break, and use the mouse for aiming the weapon. Power sliding is easy, and 
 you're able to remap any of the controls. On foot is a little harder. It's basic keyboard, with 
 a few nice touches. You can jump, strafe, roll. But in multiplayer (and one level of single player) 
 you can use the saw blade as a portable helicopter. This is quite useful in multiplayer. In addition, 
 it's easy to use.
  
  Storyline  As I explained above, the story is pretty much about the world turning into a real 
 big pothole. The missions rarely touches how the world turned into crap, yet instead focuses on 
 inner-gang issues, such as rising to the top, and taking out other rivals.
  
  Multiplayer  The multiplayer was groundbreaking in Redline. Online car combat plus first person 
 shooter gave people loads of fun. Team deathmatch, deathmatch, and capture the flag are some of 
 the game modes created. The players can choose four of the game's main gangs as their selective 
 models. After that, all players enter a level, which can be an airport, a broken down headquarters, 
 a weird energy dome, and many others. Finally, in the game, each player can enter various vehicles 
 throughout the area, or fight on foot.
  
  Price  It's hard to find this game, due to both companies Accolade and Beyond Games no longer 
 existing. Various stores online may have it, and if they do, go for it. 
  
  Replay  After you've beaten the single player, there isn't much to do. Can find some friends and 
 play multiplayer, or go look for many of the secrets tossed throughout each level.
  
  Overall  One of the best games I've ever played. Combining car combat with first-person shooter 
 is one of the greatest video game combos ever made. In addition to the weird storyline, unique 
 weapons and fun levels, this turns out to be an amazing game. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
