-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Redneck Rampage
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/redneckrampage/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: May 14, 1997
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.4
Critic Score: 7.8, 4 Review (s)
User Score: 7.6, 329 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Interplay
Developer: Xatrix
Genre: Modern First-Person...
Date:     Apr 30, 1997

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Though the tabloid alien-abduction plot feels a bit dated, there's more than enough splatter and 
 gags to compensate. 

 Just when it seemed that publishers had shipped every possible variant of the first-person 3D shooter, 
 Interplay has pulled the genre from the swamp.  

 And they did it with redneck jokes. Redneck Rampage packages the Duke Nukem 3D engine with a low-concept 
 theme - invading aliens are cloning backcountry hicks - that could have very easily fallen apart. 
 But Redneck Rampage works on several levels - as a shooter, adventure, and humor title. This is 
 a clever, fun, and challenging game with great characters, crisp sound effects, and inventive - 
 though at times very frustrating - gameplay.  

 The backwoods deep south is near-universally the butt of jokes, and the game delivers them through 
 the perspective of Leonard, the game's rampaging hero. In the opening scene, the Jim Varney-lookalike 
 cocks his pistol and says he's "out to open up a can o' whup ass." His goal is to kill off the 
 aliens who snatched a pig right out of the bed of his pickup and, it turns out, are starting their 
 invasion of earth by cloning the moronic local folk. The aliens in the first few levels are chirping, 
 feces-flinging gremlins, while the local yokels greet you with shotguns and rifles. Vicious dogs 
 attack without provocation, with the exception of one mutt that remains frozen in mid-leap until 
 you get his attention with a bullet or crowbar.  

 Though the tabloid alien-abduction plot feels a bit dated, there's more than enough splatter and 
 gags to compensate. The player sends Leonard into a sewage treatment plant, dairy, junkyard, mobile-home 
 park (complete with a nasty tornado problem) , and other locales. He must find the skeleton keys 
 that help him work his way to the nose-picking, crotch-adjusting Bubba and whap him upside the 
 head with a crowbar to complete each level. Our hero's arsenal includes weapons such as a scattergun, 
 a dynamite crossbow, and a gun that launches ripsaw blades. Thanks to the Build engine, he can 
 blow up cows, trash jukeboxes, smash windows, and generally leave destruction in his wake, just 
 as Duke could.  

 The game's humor works. Xatrix Entertainment invested the time to load Redneck up with endless little 
 in-jokes and details - the game is a rich, twisted parody of the deep south. Moon Pie snacks become 
 Cow Pie power-ups, and Leonard has a repertoire of post-killing punchlines such as "You plays with 
 the bull, ya gets the horns." Other touches of humor are more subtle. If Leonard dives into a well 
 and swims along an underwater tunnel, he'll come up for air in the outhouse. Health is restored 
 by drinking moonshine and cheap-ass whiskey - but watch your intake! Too much 'shine and you'll 
 be lurching out of control. While Leonard can "take a quick pee" to sober up a bit, more obvious 
 scatological gags fall flat - including the straining, splashing sound effects that start up whenever 
 he nears a toilet.  

 Farts aside, the game's sound effects are sharp, from the echoing crack of an automatic rifle report, 
 to the crash of pins in the bowling alley, to Leonard's painful "ow!" when he's hit or bitten by 
 a giant mosquito. The Reverand Horton Heat pumps out of jukeboxes in several parts of the game, 
 and Mojo Nixon and The Beat Farmers are included on the game's soundtrack.  

 While shoot-outs are fun, a strong adventure element underscores the gameplay. Leonard must open 
 fridges, run machinery, climb hidden ladders, and ride concealed elevators. The player can easily 
 get stuck, wandering endlessly in search of the well-hidden key that will open a door and advance 
 a level. Interplay is likely doing great business with their 1-900 hint line. Controls can be frustrating 
 to get the hang of, especially when the player is trying to time a crucial split-second jump from 
 a wrecked car or a bale of hay. One such jump demanded 15 or 20 practice runs. On every other level, 
 this tight maneuvering, combined with the sometimes too well concealed skeleton keys, stalls out 
 the otherwise addictive gameplay.  

 Overlooking the controls and difficulty issues, this is a fresh, funny, inventive take on a formula 
 that grows more tired every time the FedEx guy shows up at the GameSpot offices with a box. If 
 you liked Duke Nukem - and you're ready for a twist - you'll find Redneck a hoot.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (6 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Kingmoonraiser
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 27, 2008 12:06 am PT
Review:  Redneck rampage has comedy, action and variety. It had a good mix of normal and challenging areas 
 and what is better than mowing down squeeling prostitutes (or whatever they are) with a ripsaw. 
 Probably the best part of this game was the soundtrack. I still listen to this cd after what 10 
 years now?? You can pop it into any cd player. Squishin armadillos out on interstate 10..... heading 
 down to houston once again.... classic music. If you see this game, good luck on running it in vista, 
 but buy it for the music. The downside of this game is that the graphics were a little buggy. I 
 thought it was my PC at the time, but I fired it up a few years later and it was still buggy. Oh 
 yeah, Multiplayer was hilarious, in the trailer park map, a tornado throws you up in the air and 
 dobermans try to bite your nuts.... who could ask for more?
  
  Grey's anatomy just plain sucks. It has the corniest plots and makes a modern ER look like dormroom 
 gangbang. They jump the shark almost every week. Honestly, how many of the doctors family members 
 can come into their ER before someone says "Hmmmm, that seems far fetched." And to top it all off, 
 I think the play the same lame music in every episode. My wife loves it, so I am in hell every 
 Thursday night.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: N0d0
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 1, 2007 9:52 am PT
Review:  Well, this sure is an original game. After getting tired of the good guy vs. aliens story, Xatrix 
 entered the contest with their new FPS, Redneck Rampage. How was it, The answer is this: Under-rated, 
 and... strange.
  
  Well, when I said good guy vs, aliens, I kinda lied, but at the same time told the truth. In Redneck 
 Rampage, you play the role of a redneck named Leonard, who was living his everyday life in Hickston, 
 Arkansas with his friend Bubba. But one day, aliens came and captured everyone from Hickston. They 
 cloned them and let them loose. Now, Leonard doesn't have much of a problem with this; but what 
 does anger him is that the aliens captured Bessy, his pet pig. Not only that, but the alien scum 
 captured Bubba too! Pissed off, Leonard grabs his shotgun and heads out to the countryside to open 
 a can of woop-***.
  
  Level design is one of Redneck Rampage's finest sections. Areas are large and detailed, with lots 
 of houses, cars etc. Weapons and enemies are placed well, and Xatrix added lots of details, such 
 as tornadoes! There's lots of creative things that Xatrix managed to put in a build game that are 
 really interesting.
  
  The gameplay is sort of a love-it-or-hate-it situation. The game involves lots of key hunting; 
 Not only this, but once you open the door you'll probably encounter a switch and you will have 
 to run all around the map to figure out what opened. Other than that, it's pretty good. You go 
 to lots of cool redneck places, such as bowling alleys and trailer parks. Combat is the same as 
 other build engine games; run towards enemy, shoot him before he shoots you.
  
  The controls are pretty much the same as other Build games. Controls are good, and customizable.
 
  
  Graphics: Excellent. Textures are well made and you won't get too much pixelitis.
  
  Now, some various stuff. There's a few things I have to point out about Redneck Rampage; first 
 of all, it's unbalanced. The redneck clones are too weak and too easy. The aliens, however, can 
 be very difficult and will give you a headache. Besides, that, Redneck Rampage suffers from two 
 bugs (that I've noticed, there's probably more) : First of all, you can never drown. This means 
 the scuba gear is useless since you can breath underwater forever anyway. The second bug is a big 
 one; in many copies of the game, you cannot beat the last level. On the last level, you are beamed 
 into an alien ship to fight the final boss. If you are one of the unfortunate people who ended 
 up with a bugged copy, then the game crashes when you are beamed aboard. This is, in my opinion, 
 ridiculous and unacceptable. I'm one of these people in fact, I got to see the ending by editing 
 the spawn point for the map inside the alien ship but I shouldn't have had to do that.
  
  Overall, Redneck Rampage is a great game and will keep you entertained for a while. Flawed by a 
 few things, it still upholds as a great and original FPS that was sadly underrated and did not 
 get the attention it deserved. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sharier
Rating: 7.8
Date: Apr 16, 2007 1:30 pm PT
Review:  Majority game makers are too serious with shoot 'em up games. Without demeaning those game makers 
 like iD software (which established a trend of action games) , I like to say that they have made 
 shoot-em-up games quite boring with similar approach dominated by beasts and creepy environment. 
 Redneck Rampage is a full shoot-em-up game that incorporates humor and made a difference.
  Redneck's theme is not-so-new: the aliens are taking over the farmlands in the redneck region and 
 have kidnapped the buddy of gun trotting hero of the game. You start from rescuing your buddy (and 
 thrash him with an iron bar to stop him from creating nuisance) and then move on wiping out the 
 aliens.
  The humor level of the game hovers around the main character's wisecracks, his inclination for 
 booze and wacky behavior of the aliens. Definitely these are not as funny as in any of the Monkey 
 Island games, but I would put them at par with the MDK's level. The game was initially released 
 on DOS mode, then they put a direct X version. I can't remember which one I played -- but surely 
 the graphic quality is not comparable with that of today. It goes in competition with Duke Nukem 
 3D and falls behind MDK.
  The redneck characters tease the stereotype hot-headed Southern US culture -- but not deeply enough 
 to make it a political statement. Surely this approach was used for fun. The shooter is enjoyable 
 from the beginning to the end, and at no point of the game you will lose the interest to find out 
 what's next. Like Doom, the lead character has a status bar that tells you about your health and 
 inventory. Plus when you take a drink which works like a steroid of Duke Nukem, there is an indicator 
 telling you when you are drinking too much. The fun part is, when you are too drunk -- you will 
 walk backward and shoot like crazy. The bosses of this game are also fun to kill -- including the 
 one that loves to stay in mud. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JOE714
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 18, 2006 10:02 am PT
Review:  As much as I love a good gut-busting comedy, I rarely laugh out loud at video games. My wife and 
 I may howl at the TV while watching an episode of The Office or Family Guy, but Ill often sit 
 in silence, chuckling only occasionally, during even the most HI-larious of games. There are, of 
 course, a few exceptions to that claim: Sierras Leisure Suit Larry series kept me grinning throughout, 
 at the very least; No One Lives Forever and its sequel elicited a few happy squawks; I chortled 
 at some of the snarky dialogue during the cutscenes in my sons Xbox copy of Whiplash. Despite 
 the fact that Redneck Rampages humor stems almost exclusively from the tired and nasty triad of 
 poop, booze, and inbred hick jokes, the entire package  gameplay, sound, and some interesting 
 visuals coaxed out of that hoary old masterpiece of coding called the Build engine  adds up to 
 an experience worthy of some genuine, deep, and sustained belly laughs.
  
  Every Build game has its share of fantastically creative weaponry -- from severed gargoyle heads 
 to voodoo dolls to shrink rays  and RR is no different. In addition to pistols, shotguns, and 
 dynamite, I was delighted to run across a powerful wrist-mounted laser that was still clamped to 
 its former owners ragged detached arm, a bodacious Martian leather goddess high-caliber mega-bra, 
 and  one of my eventual favorites -- the unpredictable ripsaw. The game uses the same inventory 
 interface that first appeared in Duke 3D, but the individual items are suitably specific to Leonards 
 backwoods world. The most notable change is in RRs use of beer, whiskey, and moon pies in place 
 of the sterile health kits found in other shooters. Replenishing health with snacks and booze adds 
 the whimsical challenge of moderation to avoid sending Leonard -- hale and hearty but three sheets 
 to the wind  stumbling sideways off of a cliff.
  
  The slat-sided slaughterhouses and saloons in Redneck Rampage and its Route 66 expansion pack are 
 incredibly well-rendered and detailed for a 2.5D game. Although a few of the games indoor areas 
 are slightly crowded, there is always plenty of room available on the forest trails and rural roads 
 to shuck and jive through the thickest of barrages. Some levels even manage a subtly creepy vibe; 
 aside from having one of the best layouts, the insane asylum was also somewhat disquieting in its 
 abandoned-torture-chamber squalor. Every area contained plenty of artifacts and tableaus based 
 on truths and perceptions of the hick lifestyle. My absolute favorite details were in the ratty 
 portraits of severely mutated hillfolk that dotted the walls of several ramshackle abodes.
  
  There was something about the old Build games that made even the most mundane locations like 
 gator farms, mini-golf courses, cornfields, and those ubiquitous sewers feel fascinatingly surreal. 
 Redneck Rampage, its blistering Cuss Pack, the all-too-brief but satisfyingly difficult Route 66 
 expansion, and the amazingly good Rides Again sequel were available for years in the Family Reunion 
 compilation. That packages low price already paid for itself twice over after only the first playthrough. 
 The fact that I still enjoy Leonard and Bubbas adventures  and intend to as long as my old, mothballed 
 Win98 Pentium 2 still works  should serve as a testament to the quality of RRs truly funny scatological 
 hijinks as well as its timelessly entertaining Build-based action. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tomasart
Rating: 6.7
Date: Dec 15, 2006 1:17 pm PT
Review:  Yee haw!!! I love this game! Open a can of whoop ass! It is one of those games You love to play 
 when You just feel mean! I think the theme to it with Country boys versus Aliens is clever. The 
 graphics aren't great but good enough to allow getting lost into the plot of the game. The weapons 
 are crude which is just fine with me. The humans of the game provide a fresh blend of humor, as 
 well as satire. I think a Game about city dwellers versus aliens is definately in the works.. hehe 
 hehe
  I highly recommend it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yo_foo
Rating: 8.9
Date: Sep 17, 2006 9:55 pm PT
Review:  I was hooked on FPS. I needed a game that I could take a break from Duke 3D and Quake and I found 
 this here game. I still can't believe what a forgotten classic this game is. Those who say it doesn't 
 bring anything new to the genre are wrong! It brings laugh-out-loud humour into a FPS. Nothing 
 is dank or dark like in Quake, it's more like a version of Duke 3D only without Duke, but a couple 
 o' rednecks steal the show. Bubba, the fat one, whom you hit a crowbar over the head with to finish 
 the level is quite amusing, however quite frustrating if he ends up dead.
  
  The game is fun to play, and the evil characters are memorable. The weapons are hilarious and simply 
 brilliant. The game guide in the shape of a newspaper gives you more details on them.
  
  The level design is a little sketchy, with certain frustrating levels where you end up walking 
 around in circles. But this can be easily overcome with an online walkthrough.
  
  It's great value, however a little old now and seeing as it's nothing really that different, it'll 
 be long forgotten by most but still in the hearts of others.
  
  :' ( 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
