-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Red Orchestra: Ostfront 41-45
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/redorchestraostfront4145/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 More-authentic feel than most shooters of this type.
 Requires more teamwork than other shooters.
 Large maps.
 Decent-sized community of regular players.
 Built-in VoIP.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Learning curve is pretty steep.
 Requires Steam activation, even with retail box purchase.
 Bots for single-player are quite dumb--don't bother with them.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr  5, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.9
Critic Score: 7.8, 21 Review (s)
User Score: 8.4, 975 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Valve Software
Developer: Tripwire Interact.
Genre: Historic First-Person...
Date:     Mar 14, 2006 &raquo;  
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Red Orchestra is an enjoyable, team-based online shooter for those who like the Battlefield-style 
 games but want a more technical and realistic experience. 

  Red Orchestra: Ostfront 41-45 is a team-based multiplayer shooter set, as the name suggests, on 
 the brutal eastern front of World War II, where the Russians and Germans fought a brutal war of 
 attrition. While that setup probably sounds pretty familiar to those of us who've played games 
 such as Battlefield 1942 or even Call of Duty, Red Orchestra manages to differentiate itself. The 
 game offers a hardcore gameplay design that weeds out the arcade-shooter crowd with a meticulous 
 attention to realism, albeit sometimes just for the sake of it.  

          Red Orchestra puts you on the eastern front of World War II, where the Germans and Russians 
 fought many desperate and bloody battles.     

  Red Orchestra has its roots in an Unreal Tournament 2003 mod of the same name. Like other such 
 mods, including Counter-Strike and Day of Defeat, Red Orchestra is now available as a stand-alone 
 retail game. The package requires you to activate the game through Steam, which was a process that 
 resulted in some complications for us as we tried to play from an office PC and from a separate 
 home PC. Once you sort those installation issues out, the game loads up like any other game on 
 Steam, and you're able to load up a server browser to search out games to play online. Much like 
 other mod-to-retail games before it, Red Orchestra is an online-only game, although the developers 
 have included a single-player practice mode where you can populate a map with bots -- this is a "safer" 
 environment where you can learn the many nuances of the game without getting berated by human players. 
 You'll find that the bots included in the game are pretty brain-dead, so once you get the mechanics 
 down, you'll want to jump right into a live match.  

  There are 13 maps in Red Orchestra, ranging from small farm towns and the plains surrounding them 
 to a bombed out rail yard and a monastery set atop a hill. These maps are generally quite large 
 and well designed. There's plenty of room to stretch out, which lets teams move around and attempt 
 flanking maneuvers in a lot of cases, though at times it seems like the action doesn't feel as 
 concentrated and directed as it could be. The detail in the environments is pretty good -- you'll 
 find buildings to garrison and shoot out from; foxholes and trenches to dive into; and plenty of 
 foliage, rocks, and other debris to use as cover, all of which looks quite good. Most of the maps 
 have required objectives for each team to capture -- once all the objectives are reached, that team 
 wins the round. The maps vary from vehicle-oriented maps, where each team has plenty of armored 
 personnel carriers and tanks spawning right at their base; to infantry-only maps; to combined-arms 
 maps, where both infantry and tanks roam about.  

  One of the interesting things about Red Orchestra is how the various classes work. Like many other 
 team-based shooters, Red Orchestra lets you select from an array of different classes, each of 
 which has special weaponry. Riflemen get guns such as Kar-98s or Mosin Nagants, squad commanders 
 and other shock troopers get submachine guns such as MP-40s. There are also machine gunners who 
 carry heavy automatic weapons such as MG-42s. The vehicle specialists, which are the only class 
 that can jump in a tank or operate other vehicles, only carry a sidearm, but they can pick up weapons 
 lying on the battlefield.  

  More so than most other team-based shooter classes, these classes feel a lot different from one 
 another. The machine gunner can't shoot accurately from the hip. Not only is there no crosshair 
 to assist your aim, but the gun sprays wildly out of control unless you find a rock or ledge to 
 set the gun down on or go prone so you can deploy the bipod. The machine gunners will also find 
 that the barrels can warp from overheating due to repeated firing, which severely hampers accuracy. 
 Yes, there's a separate button you'll need to learn that swaps in a fresh barrel. Submachine guns 
 have a ton of recoil, more than you'd expect if you're a veteran of the more-popular WWII shooters. 
 Commanders can use binoculars, which on certain maps are used to call in artillery strikes, which 
 need to be radioed in by another player.  

  You'll find a similar separation of tasks for driving tanks. Unlike other games where one player 
 usually serves as the driver and turret gunner, Red Orchestra has one player exclusively doing 
 the driving, while another player mans the turret and handles reloading (and selecting the type 
 of tank round to use) . This requires good coordination between the two players, as the gunner's 
 job is infinitely harder if the driver is constantly lurching around and never stops to let the 
 gunner aim. Even the basic mechanics of driving and shooting a tank gun have an added air of realism -- the 
 driver, for example, can only see through a tiny porthole in many tanks. You can pop your head 
 out of some tanks for added visibility at the expense of vulnerability, but for the most part, 
 you'll need to deal with a tunnel view. The gunner meanwhile spends all of his or her time peering 
 through a narrow-view gun sight with rather complicated, and presumably realistic, markings -- if 
 you know how to use these markings, you can probably more-easily adjust for elevation as you fire 
 the gun, which seems to exhibit real projectile physics. You can't mouse-aim and turn the turret 
 as fast as you like... instead, you use the WASD keys to aim the turret, which simulates the turning 
 speed and elevation limitations of the various tanks in the game. It all sounds like a real pain, 
 and in all honesty, it can take a while to learn how to effectively operate a tank. But when you 
 find a good driver or gunner partner, and everything comes together, it's all the more satisfying 
 to wreak havoc on the battlefield with a tank in Red Orchestra.  

  The realism extends to infantry combat, as well. Like Day of Defeat, Red Orchestra uses stamina 
 to limit how much and how often you can run. If you run to the point of exhaustion, you'll find 
 your aim noticeably less steady. There's location-based damage in the game, and you can even have 
 the gun shot right out of your hand, which is quite disconcerting the first time it happens. But 
 more often than not, Red Orchestra is a one-shot, one-kill type of game, so you quickly learn to 
 keep your head down, crouch, and crawl most of the time to stay under cover, only popping out to 
 take a shot. It's not just about aiming down the iron sights of your weapon either. If you're armed 
 with a bolt-action rifle and fire, you need to press the shoot button again to work the bolt, eject 
 the spent cartridge, and load a new round into the breech. Forcing you to work the bolt on your 
 rifle seems somewhat over the line as far as realism goes, but real grognards may still get a kick 
 out of it.  

          Tank-gun crosshairs such as this seem intimidating at first, but you'll eventually learn 
 how to aim with them.     

  Beyond the large, wide-open maps, Red Orchestra is a great-looking game, which is what you'd expect 
 from something based off of Unreal Tournament 2004. The character models can look a little generic, 
 and they animate stiffly at times, but the level of detail put into the vehicle models is appreciable. 
 There's even a nice shellshock, shaky visual effect when an explosion goes off near you or when 
 bullets are whizzing near your head. The sound effects in the game are also great. The gun effects 
 are sharp and varied, depending on what weapon you're using, and the tanks in the game rumble about 
 with the expected authority, both from their massive engines and the booming cannons when they're 
 fired. There's also built-in voice-over-IP support, which a lot of players seem to use -- for a game 
 such as this that requires a lot of close teamwork, it definitely comes in handy and works well. 
 Overall, the presentation of Red Orchestra is about what you'd expect from a good war game.  

 
  If you're looking for an easy-to-play, online, team-based shooter, Red Orchestra is not it. The 
 various nuances in the game, such as driver and gunner separation in tanks, one-shot kills, and 
 stamina modeling will probably be turnoffs to those who are looking for something that's pick-up-and-play 
 ready. But for those who can appreciate a more-realistic and technical gameplay experience, there's 
 definitely a lot to like in Red Orchestra. Large maps, a focus on teamwork, and attention to detail 
 in the various weapons and vehicles make for a game that hardcore wargamers will find enjoyable. 
     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (106 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: MajinBuXL
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 23, 2008 6:38 pm PT
Review:  I was hoping for something more to be honest. Its practically a copy day of defeat for the eastern 
 front hopefuls but unfinished and unoptimised. DoD does it better and smoother and a its all around 
 a lot more fun. 
  The realism aspect is there, but it all feels like a sandbox kind of game. Like someone made this 
 in their basement or something. The movements with the mouse and keyboard just don't feel right, 
 like when you play a bad port or something.
  I kinda bought it to see what all the talk about the realism is about but its really nothing but 
 no radar and very limited hud. Plus some pretty big recoil and slow weapon switching/reloading. 
 The effects when bullets are flying by you and the granades that go off next to you are pretty 
 neat i have to say. They really mess up your aim, but then again day of defeat has the same feature. 
 
  The maps are decent and its really cool that you can drive a tank but it seems to me that the game 
 is primarely for sniper affectionados that just love to sit in that same spot all day. Not that 
 camping isn't fun but the game makes it a little too unbalanced on that aspect.
  
  Overall i don't think its that good of a game. Unless you really love sniping and sitting around 
 all day then you might actually like this.
  I think it just lacks the action packed aspect necessary for a good multiplayer.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: y_roland
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 13, 2008 1:59 am PT
Review:  Red Orchestra was originally a mod based on the Unreal engine and later on sold on retail and through 
 Steam.
  
  This game is set in the eastern front of WWII, which is incredibly underused compared to the western 
 front, revisited so many times it doesnt interest anyone anymore.
  Red orchestra separates itself from the rest of FPS by endeavouring towards as much realism as 
 possible, albeit you'll probably at times feels it's too much.
  Unlike most FPS you cant just run straigth at the enemy with the primary fire button pressed an 
 hope to kill anyone, RO is about taking cover and aiming carefully to hope to take down someone 
 you're aiming at. Mostly this game is one-shot kills wiht the exception of guns like the Luger 
 pistol or it's soviet counterpart the TT33, meaning that you have to keep your head down and make 
 sure you have cover while slowly crawling from one spot to another, all the while hearing MG fires 
 streaking above you. That being said the sound effects are awesome, you'll hear artillery falling 
 down, bullets whistling right next to you, and every weapon makes a different sound when you're 
 firing it, you'll very quickly come to recognize MG fires for instance, and separate them from 
 assault rifles.
  Maps in this game are huge and some even when playing 25 vs 25 (as some servers allow it) you'll 
 still have plenty of sneaky ways to get to a place where you can shoot you're foes from the flank 
 or the rear.
  There's a practice mode that comes with the game but all it's good for is getting a quick understanding 
 of basic mechanics before you dive right into the bloody internet version of the eastern front.
 
  The amount of different maps is staggering as often more are released by the community, which 
 helps bring the game to a whole new level.
  Many gameplays elements separate Ro from most other games, such as the lack of health bars, or 
 the system implemented on games like call of duty 4 (where if you take damage all you have to do 
 is wait and you'll be back at full health) . In RO if you get shot you'll see a part of your body 
 turn red in a picture of the soldier located on the bottom left side of the screen, reflecting 
 the place where you got shot. There's a few separate parts of a character that can be hit, such 
 as torso, arms, legs , feet , hands and head. Getting shot in the hand will make you loose your 
 gun which the firts time it happens is really confusing, getting shot in the foot means that for 
 a few secs you'll be MUCH slower (basically it's a death sentence unless you're lucky) .
  Tank battles are very different from other games as controlling a tank in RO takes a considerable 
 amount of teamwork between the gunner and the driver, for instance the gunner has very little chance 
 of hittinh a target if the driver doesnt stop to allow him to get a clear shot.
  This game is class based meaning that classes like sniper, tank crewman (only guys with that tank 
 commander who can ride a tank) are immediatly taken so if you dont have a good comp it's likely 
 that by the time you join the battle all that's left is rifleman, which does take some of the shine 
 off the game.
  However the fact thats there can only be so many snipers or tankers means that there's always enough 
 players to fill the cannon fodder role (yes the attacking side must be willing to die much more 
 than they kill.) and that there's no rush for the tanks or vehicles like the ones in Unreal Tournament.
 
  It does come with some drawbacks however if your Anti-Tank soldiers and your tankers suck it's 
 likely that your team will loose because they're the only ones who can take out enemy armor. This 
 can be really frustrating when you loose because incompetent players take the most vital roles, 
 but luckily enough it doesn't happen all that often.
  As the gamespot review said, this isnt the kind of game that will suck you in from the start, at 
 first i found it boring, but as i kept playing i understood better some of the finer mechanics 
 of the game and started enjoying it a lot.
  A few mods were released for this game , basically only one is played sadly, it's the one introducing 
 the western front, Darkest Hour (who didn't see THAT coming?) . The others despite considerable work 
 just are ignored , it's the Mare Nostrum, introducing the battles in North Africa and the Carpathian 
 Crosses introducing the Romanian Army with new maps, weapons and vehicles.
  
  The learning curve in this game is steep most begginers are likely to fail at killing anyone in 
 their first game, but it makes the first kill all the sweeter. So like i said give this game a 
 chance to win you over, if you like FPS games you'll end up liking RO.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DethisRedeption
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 4, 2008 8:31 am PT
Review:  This MMOFPS is set in the Eastern Front of WW2. I am sure most you ar saying "Oh yea!!!!!!! Another 
 WW2 FPS!!!!!!! But I say Nay my fair gamer. You must not look over this little gem. The game takes 
 nod from BF1942 and DoD and kicks right up the 3rd Riech. It introduces its own set of flavors 
 and being original and immersive. Can it be a WW2 be original and dare I say more? I think so. Though 
 the game has a high learning curve then your average FPS. It is advise to stick to it and withstand 
 the initial ownage upon your first multiplayer match. The game boosts real time ballistics, as 
 in the bullets drop the further away you are, and amazing sound that will have dancing "The Stalin" 
 and feeling like your in Enemy at the Gates. The graphics are ok. But its about time they have 
 some gore in a WW2 game. If you want a realistic and challenging experience this is the game for 
 you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StealthKing93
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 20, 2008 9:06 am PT
Review:  Red Orchestra is the best MMO World War II I have ever played.. this is definately worth buying 
 and playing 24 hours a day! It has the best graphics & smooth gameplay it is, I have never seen 
 anything better than this game. There is alot of gore and it's so realistic, the uniforms on both 
 German and Soviet sides are good in just about every detail. And realising that me buying this 
 game, later an awesome MOD team developed "Darkest Hour", it's like a complete new Red Orchestra 
 with better graphics, weapons, & vehicles. The new units are United States, Great Britain, and 
 still Germany.
  The Darkest Hour is free, go to this link to get it.
  http://www. darkesthourgame. com/
  You will deeply regret it if you don't buy this game; and if 
 you have it you definately will regret not getting DH. I have played this game since it came out, 
 and I love it... it's the best WWII game for the PC. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Meat_Bag
Rating: 3
Date: Sep 5, 2008 12:56 pm PT
Review:  When I first read about this game, I tought it would be awesome. I am a fan of realistic shooters, 
 and a Battlefield-style WW2 game with realistic gameplay sounded waaaay to good to be true. And 
 I was right...
  
  First of all, when you start the game, you'll notice the menu and style identical to that of Battlefield, 
 or Battlefront series. So far, so good... until you actually try to do something to start the game. 
 To put it simply, the game is SLOW! More so, it is full of bugs. And that becomes apparent after 
 only few minutes you spend with it. Since it was made using Battlefield's engine, I really fail 
 to see how the heck did they manage to create a game that's so darn slow regardless of the fact 
 that my hardware far exceeds the recommended configuration. I mean, you could drop the details 
 and resolution and hope it'll run properly, but that about kills the entire experience. I mean, 
 the most important thing in this kind of multiplayer shooter is graphics and effects. Failed graphics 
 leaves this game with simply nothing, especially compared to Star Wars: Battlefront 2, whose graphics 
 is simply amazing and runs perfectly on all systems. Or Battlefield 2, which is a bit more demanding, 
 but has even better graphics. I don't even wanna think what happenes if you don't have a state-of-the-art 
 internet connection to play it online. 
  
  As for the "realism" that is supposed to make this game special compared to other multiplayer shooters, 
 don't even bother to believe it. When you get stuck with your tank in the middle of a village, 
 and then realize you actually got stuck on a frickin' wooden fence, with no means to break it, 
 or simply drive through it, you'll ask yourself why did you even bother with this game. Oh, and 
 don't worry, your tank can survive a direct hit from an enemy tank 10 METERS AWAY, as well as your 
 opponent. So forget about realistic gunnery and tactics. Simply aim and fire at your enemy, and 
 hope he dies sooner than you. The whole game is still based on the stupid "combined damage" system, 
 which means that even if you are in a formidable Tiger 1, two direct hits from much weaker T-34 
 will turn you into scrap. Frontal hit or rear hit, who gives a dime...
  
  AI is simply brain-dead, so don't even think of having fun in single player mode. And that goes 
 for both infantry and tank crews. Really, don't bother... 
  
  Just stick to Battlefield 2 or Star Wars: Battlefront 2. Both games offer a heck of a lot of fun, 
 great atmosphere, decent single player game and awesome graphics. Forget ever seeing Red Orchestra... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: portujoel5
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 21, 2008 6:03 pm PT
Review:  I had my doubts before buying the game, like with any other new and unknown title. What pushed 
 me to buy it was a screen shot of a corpse hanging head-down with arms hanging. 
  
  The first look at the game's interface is not so impressive. It's somewhat dated and not fresh 
 like other shooters, but don't let this bring you down.
  
  There is no single player, so you go straight to server choosing. Not many servers, even less with 
 a good ping for me, but I went right in the first I could find.
  
  You can choose between Allies and Axis, Russians and Germans, and you get to choose from different 
 "classes", this determines the weapons and actions you can do. Rifleman is the only class without 
 player cap, so obviously I had to go Rifleman.
  
  The graphics look neat, I can play the game at max setting with full AA and AF. The sound is very 
 impressive, all effects are pretty clear and help you a lot on the battlefield. 
  
  The hard part of the game is getting used to the movement and the amount of accuracy you need to 
 shoot. This is nothing close to arcade shooters like Halo, or Team Fortress 2 massive shooting 
 style. The standard rifle and all the models in the game are very close to real proportions and 
 functionality, so you have to reload your weapon after each shot.
  
  Like in real like, 1 rifle shot in your torso will most likely send you out of combat, dead. You 
 can get injured, loose your weapon while getting shot, and be unable to run or even walk if they 
 shoot your legs. This game can be very stressing, because everything feels so real and acts so 
 realistic.
  
  I'm already killing people, it's not easy at first, but if you practice a bit with the rifle, stay 
 back and try to kill enemies with your weapon you'll get the hang of it quick enough.
  
  This is a very entertaining game, and for it's price I strongly recommend it to anyone that likes 
 on-line shooters. The community is growing very fast, and the developers have release all kind 
 of tools to mod the game, and there are already a couple mods that add new settings and items to 
 this already very appealing game. 
  
  Have a good time and enjoy the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Red_Jester
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 9, 2008 11:54 pm PT
Review:  Red Orchestra Ostfront 41-45 (RO) is a complex and challenging FPS game that manages to create a 
 slight barrier for entry to players not used to realistic open war games while still being great 
 at the same time. While many players still enjoy Rainbow Six with it's great realism, that doesn't 
 guarantee they'll enjoy an open warfare game based on realism. Things become much more chaotic 
 with the presence of machine guns, tanks, artillery, anti-tank guns and well hidden snipers sprawled 
 out across a wide open battlefield. RO can hold up to 50 players on a single server in addition 
 to that, so it's understandable that many people may not be able get past that realism barrier 
 when it's coupled with the chaos and hell of an actual full-scale battlefield.
  
  I write this review in order to recommend this game as well as show you both sides of the fence 
 for the complaints and praises. I hopefully will be able to help you decide whether this game is 
 the game for you or not. As I'm writing this review in the Summer of 2008, I will not be reviewing 
 under the standards of today, but of the market when the game was originally released.
  
  For those that don't know, Red Orchestra originally began as a free mod for Unreal Tournament 2004. 
 It won the grand prize for the Make Something Unreal mod contest which earned Tripwire $50,000 
 and the license to create a retail game with the Unreal Engine. Did they create something worthy 
 in the crowded FPS market, or did they end up releasing a polished mod with a price tag?
  
  Setting/Story:
  You should know the history of WWII, so I'll only focus on the setting. Obviously 
 the setting is set on the Russian Front from years 1941-1945. Many of the major battles set in 
 between these years have been created into levels. They range from the initial attack into Russia 
 to the freezing cold urban streets of Stalingrad and all the way to the siege of the German capital 
 covering all weather types.
  
  Graphics:
  Luckily for the developers of RO, the Unreal engine aged extremely well with the newer shooters 
 of the time. All of the weapons, uniforms, players and vehicles are detailed very well. One complaint 
 is that though the textures are good for buildings, the interiors are rather dull in certain levels 
 with either barren hallways or repeat objects thrown around the place. Though I have no idea what 
 WWII tracer rounds looked like, some players seem to be confused about the lime/yellow tracer rounds. 
 While that may or may not be accurate, you can be sure that the rest of the weapons and vehicles 
 are authentically detailed to their real life counter-parts. Tripwire did a great job at capturing 
 the interior of vehicles. You can shift around in the tank to multiple views for all three tank 
 positions. It's also nice for immersion when sitting in a half-track with other soldiers and watching 
 them nervously wipe their face and bury their heads in their hands. Overall, I still believe the 
 graphics hold up to this day for the reason that they're gritty and realistic with devastated landscapes.
 
  
  Sound:
  The sound in this game is just great. All of the weapons sound fantastic and unique. You'll absolutely 
 know when an MG is firing down on you and you'll know from what direction it's coming from without 
 even seeing it. You'll also hear whether it's behind a building or from a far away distance from 
 the slightly muffled shots or the echoes in a wide open map. Tanks sound perfect from outside and 
 inside. The sounds of the rotating turret and sounds of shells hitting opposing tanks as well as 
 yours are great with a loud metal clang letting you know someone has been hit. I dare say it may 
 be the best sounding tanks out of any other game. Like most other FPS games, sound is also vital 
 for your survival. Players breath heavily after sprinting for a while, so it's dead giveaway to 
 yourself or the enemy hiding around the corner. When you spring to cover and plop down into a prone 
 position, chances are anyone near you knows exactly where you are from hitting the dirt. I believe 
 there's some music in the game, but I turned that off after the first day I got the game.
  
  Controls:
  Here's a widely opinionated area of the game. The number one complaint about the 
 game from people who never managed to enjoy the game is the long reload times. The main issue is 
 with rifles. You have to fire all rounds in a clip fed rifle before being allowed to reload. (KAR/Nagant, 
 etc) After that, you have to watch your character slowly enter the clip because I suppose it may 
 or may not be as simple as just shoving it in there in real life. The animation is so excellently 
 detailed that I have assume that it IS how they're reloaded. I personally see no problem with the 
 reload time. It's barely longer than many other games with realistic weapons. However, compared 
 to other WWII games with the same rifles, the reload times are much longer which I suppose may 
 be the problem when players aren't used to seeing that with the same weapons they've fired in other 
 WWII shooters for years. Another complaint is that you have to click again after firing to load 
 another round in the chamber with the bolt. I've never had a problem with this, but that may be 
 because I'm a twitchy FPS gamer that clicks like crazy in a firefight. Aside from the rifles, all 
 of the other weapons are perfect and while there are quite a few actions in the game, it's no more 
 than you're used to seeing in other games such as the Battlefield series or Day of Defeat. Everything 
 is fluent and responsive in the controls department. The tank controls are a bit more complicated, 
 but easily manageable after your first time in the tank. You move the turret using the WASD keys 
 and change views using the scroll wheel. You may want to look up the online manual before playing 
 around in one.
  
  Single-player:
  You should know by now that this is completely an online focused game, but for those wishing to 
 learn the game before heading online, there are bots to practice with in all of the maps. They're 
 quite bad, but I'm not going to detract from the score in this area.
  
  Multi-player:
  RO has one of the better communities out of any FPS out there. Most of the players are very mature 
 and helpful to new players unless you're a sniper and the enemies MG is mowing down your team. 
 They'll get pretty angry if you take the teams single sniper slot without taking down key targets. 
 The game is very much based around team work in some of the maps. While some urban infantry maps 
 don't require team work, you can expect the majority of maps to require it. For assault/defend 
 maps, you will NEED coordination on your team. However as we all know, getting an online team to 
 cooperate isn't always as easy as it sounds. You won't be able to one man army in this game, so 
 expect to work as a team in order to win. It should be noted that most every server has friendly 
 fire on, but as I said, most of the players are mature and forgive TKs. Though the game isn't nearly 
 as populated as many other popular FPS games, you'll find there are plenty of servers running at 
 all times. There are only a few 50 player servers, but they're generally always easy to get into. 
 The voice chat is about as clear as you could expect compared to Half-Life engine games.
  
  Gameplay:
  Where to begin? The best thing about this game is the huge amount of variety in almost 
 everything. Weapons, weather, environments, map types and vehicles are all varied and make for 
 an experience that won't become dull. One thing that I absolutely love about this game is the diversity 
 in the maps. Nearly every time of battlefield situation is found here. There are infantry only 
 maps, infantry and vehicle/tank maps and pure tank battle maps. This includes the environment as 
 well. There are maps made for dense urban combat and building to building firefights. Though there 
 are some wide open infantry maps, they won't be nearly as large as others. Some interesting levels 
 are the maps in highly detailed forests where visibility is very low until you're in the enemies 
 face. The large cities are usually too condensed for large tanks to enter, so this leaves to close 
 quarters firefights. This is easily the most action-packed type of map. There's also maps with 
 wide open plains intended for full tank battles. While it's recommended you fill your tank with 
 a crew, it's possible and easy to go solo. These can lead to very intense battles as you come over 
 a hill with your tank line and meet the enemy tank line looking straight at you.
  
  We're left with the infantry/tank maps. Usually these maps limit the number of tanks allowed to 
 2-3 max. In cities, tanks are absolutely vital to victory. You'll need a full crew to win these 
 maps. A driver, a gunner and the machine gunner. There are other open field maps dotted with small 
 villages or farms to fight for as infantry while the tanks duke it out in the fields and cover 
 their infantry. There's quite a bit of foliage in the larger maps, so it is possible to crawl your 
 way to the enemy base without being seen. This is also great for snipers and hiding anti-tank soldiers. 
 Speaking of classes, there are a large number of classes all with a unique selection of equipment 
 similar to what you'd expect from the genre. The number of classes and the number of classes allowed 
 per team depends on the map. One interesting feature of RO is that the variety of weapons also 
 depends on the time line of the maps. If the map is set in 1941, you won't expect to be using an 
 STG-44 or many semi-automatic rifles and new models of older weapons. All of the weapons are very 
 different between sides with the exception of rifles. As you can expect from a realistic FPS, most 
 shots are one shot, one kill. However, for shots that don't kill, it will wound a particular section 
 of the body shown by a body icon turning red where you were shot. This will limit your capabilities 
 for about ten seconds be through movement or aiming. Being shot in the hand will result in your 
 weapon and ammo being dropped. It should be noted that bullets do have to travel to their intended 
 target. If you're used to say the Half-Life engine where most of the games will have bullets or 
 buckshot reaching your target the exact moment you fire, then you may have to adjust a bit for 
 this game. Shooting at a sprinting target at a long range will often miss unless you lead your 
 target. At close quarters, you won't notice this much, but playing a sniper and shooting from a 
 distance will require you to lead your targets if they're running.
  
  Overall, RO is a wonderful game for fans of realistic war games. It does require and reward patience. 
 If the thought of slowly crawling into a position or running from cover to cover to avoid being 
 shot makes you think "boring," then this game may not be for you. The game is slower paced in that 
 you have to move carefully and seek cover often. You can't run straight down a street expecting 
 to own everyone you see because more often than not, you'll die withing seconds of moving out in 
 the open in the middle of a firefight. Since there are so many positions for infantry to dig in, 
 you won't get a chance to get a shot off playing run'n'gun.
  
  If you're a fan of America's Army, Operation Flashpoint or their spiritual successors, then this 
 is the game for you. If you're interested in a breath of fresh air from the other fast paced military 
 shooters of the genre that rewards patience, teamwork and feels more realistic in that you have 
 to move carefully, then this is absolutely worth the price of admission and a low one it is now. 
 You can find RO on Steam for around $10 which is $10 well spent. I'll see you in game, comrades. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lathan94
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 9, 2008 9:02 pm PT
Review:  In Red Orchestra realism is the name of the game. I personally loved the realistic approach. I 
 am a history and military buff. Thats one reason i love this game. Theres no crosshair, you can 
 run forever, free aim, bullet ballistics are effected by gravity and wind. The tank battles very 
 intense, especially when you have many tanks on each side firing. All the maps are very detailed 
 and just beg you to stand and look around for a second, but of course if you do that your likley 
 to get pegged in the head. You die in one shot if you shot people almost anywhere. The only instance 
 this doesnt apply is when you or the enemy get lucky and get shot in a leg, hand or something non 
 vital like that. This shooter isnt the glorious one man army call of duty your used to. Its a gritty, 
 a lot of the time you wont know where the hell death will strike you from. You may be running down 
 a road and a good marksman might shoot you from a building nearly across the map. Guns and explosions 
 sound amazing in this game. If you have a nice sound system and turn up the volume a little you 
 could swear you hearing a real battle. In games like CoD the ambient gunfire are linear sound effects 
 that dont mean someone is actually firing a gun. In this game every sound effect is caused by players 
 on the map. Which is impressive considering how many sounds are going on at any given moment during 
 the battle. The epic factor comes into play when many players are pitted against many players in 
 one big battle. Such as in the begining of a 50 player match you may have 25 players on each side. 
 You will charge into the fray with your comrades of course taking cover on the way. A Machine gun 
 may open up killing a couple guys right off the back. A grenade may land in the middle of a squad 
 of soldiers exploding send arms and legs in all directions and killing 4. Men are being shot every 
 where you look a tank might roll over the hill to save the day but it suffers at the hands of a 
 anti tank trooper and enemy tank. Its interesting how teamwork comes into play. If everyone just 
 charge in, they would die im 100% sure. Some players in the game seem to almost be good military 
 leaders. Sometimes one player will organize the entire team. For intance the leader may say 15 
 guys down the middle 2 squads of 5 on left and right flanks. A good leader knows how to react to 
 situations fast. A enemy tank may come down the hill a leader will tell the men where it is and 
 devote some men to take it out. Red orchestra doest say teamwork is optional. Teamwork is a required 
 thing. Being independent will likley mean you will die a lonely death surrounded by enemys on a 
 cold street in stalingrad. After a victory in this game you feel like it was hard earned in virtual 
 blood and gore. This better than battlefield in my opinion. Dont get discouraged if you dont succeed 
 at first just play a little singleplayer practice to get the mechanics memorized and to have some 
 target practice on some not to smart bots. I dont think will play CoD ever again now that i know 
 what real war is like. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vanilla_Snow
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 11, 2008 10:59 pm PT
Review:  Red Orchestra takes realism to heart. You won't find bunny hopping or nade spamming here. Rushing 
 into a crowded room firing your automatic weapon wildly into the air like Rambo will not work out 
 for you. RO forces you to use cover, aim carefully, navigate your surroundings with care, and above 
 all, utilize team work. 
  
  Maps for RO come in three varieties, smaller infantry focused maps, larger wide open vehicle focused 
 maps, and medium to large combined arms maps in which troops and armor must coordinate their efforts. 
 All are driven by objective based game play similar to the Battlefield series. Overall, the maps 
 are extremely well designed. Varying not only in size and shape, many levels require different 
 game play tactics. For example, some maps feature narrow rubble strewn city streets forcing players 
 to fight house to house, block by block. Others are expansive outdoor levels, requiring players 
 to utilize the terrain in order to advance. No matter what the flavor, the stock maps play well 
 and provide a good amount of variety.
  
  Whether you're driving a tank or fighting with the troops, the combat is very well done with superlative 
 attention to detail. As an infantryman, you will have several familiar classes to choose from such 
 as rifleman, submachine gunner, machine gunner, and sniper. Tankers and tank commanders are the 
 only classes which can get in armor units, but all infantry units can use troop transports. Squad 
 leaders and tank commanders have the ability to lay smoke, issue orders to attack certain objectives 
 or mark rally points using the tactical map, and call in artillery strikes by marking a location 
 with binoculars and radioing in the coordinates. As a tanker, you can occupy one of three positions: 
 driver, gunner, and in some tanks forward machine gunner. The driver drives, the gunner operates 
 the main gun and selects targets, and the forward gunner mows down any infantry that might try 
 to approach the tank to lay a satchel charge or destroy it with anti-tank weaponry. Ideally, the 
 gunner also issues orders to the driver on when to stop so he can make a clean shot, but often 
 tanking suffers from a lack of communication. Many choose to operate tanks on their own despite 
 the excellent menu in place to issue commands, manually switching between the different positions 
 to move into position and fire at targets.
  
  Combat is executed with a great sense of realism. Many have complained that features such as having 
 to press fire again so your character will operate the bolt on his rifle or having to change the 
 machine gun barrel when it overheats are unnecessary and merely in place to please to the diehards. 
 This is a legitimate criticism, but it truly adds a level of detail not found in many shooters. 
 It makes sense that you would have to make an effort to work the bolt, so why not press an extra 
 button? Forcing you to do it yourself allows you to better control your actions. For example, if 
 you are caught in a bind as a rifleman, you can choose to postpone operating your bolt in exchange 
 for switching to a grenade if the situation so requires. Then, switching back to your gun, you 
 can ready the next shot at your leisure. Many times in other WWII themed shooters, I found myself 
 dying because I've had to wait for my character to finish ejecting a shell. 
  
  Tank weapons are also well done. You can select between armor piercing shells for enemy armor and 
 high explosive shells for infantry. Shells striking tanks perpendicularly do the most damage, while 
 striking at great angles or pitches will result in the shell bouncing off harmlessly. There are 
 many vehicles that can be operated and each one is unique with a different layout.
  
  Damage modeling is also well done throughout. Getting shot in the leg will make you run slower, 
 and getting shot in the arm often means losing your weapon. Each tank has its own individual damage 
 modeling as well. A Panzer IV's engine will be located in a different place than on a Russian T-34, 
 requiring you to know exactly where to aim if you want to immobilize it. Every bullet and shell 
 fired is tracked through the game world by a ballistics system. The bullets from the Kar98 will 
 travel slower because they are heavier, but do more damage when they strike. The bullets from the 
 Mosin Nagant are lighter and therefore travel faster, lessening the amount you must lead your target 
 with the iron sights.
  
  While RO is mainly an online game, bots are included for offline play. The bot AI, however, leaves 
 much to be desired. Practice mode is still an excellent place to pick up the basics of the game 
 before embarrassing yourself on a full server. Even fans of online FPS games will find a lot to 
 get used to. 
  
  The community for RO is small but fiercely loyal. The number of populated servers is small, and 
 many play the same sequence of maps. At the time of this review, a content update was recently 
 released adding new vehicles and maps. Despite this, no servers seem to be utilizing the new content 
 yet. Some highly anticipated total conversion mods are also nearing release which hopefully will 
 generate renewed interest in the game.
  
  Red Orchestra is a game that takes getting used to. Understanding the game is like understanding 
 the difference between manual and automatic transmission. There are a lot of automatic cars that 
 drive well and are easy to operate, but they don't leave you very satisfied. And then you drive 
 a car with manual transmission, and you realize what you've been missing. You're left feeling pretty 
 good with yourself after having increased control over your driving experience. RO is that manual 
 car. There are tons of WWII themed online shooters out there, but RO, with its focus on detail 
 and realism, grants you a level of control and immersion that few games can boast. You won't realize 
 it until you try it, and like your first time driving stick, you might get frustrated the first 
 few times. But stay with it, and you're bound to have a rewarding experience.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jevulen
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 17, 2007 11:16 pm PT
Review:  Red Orchestra is not the ordinary first person shooter, first of all, it is multiplayer only. (There 
 is a singeplayer component but anyone who bothers with it does not like to play games.)
  
  Second of all, it is intense. You most often will die from just one hit, which makes you want to 
 bring out the best of your own shots. The game has a wide range of realistic weapons, ranging from 
 pistols to rifles, artillery barrages and tanks. Everything is behaving as it does in real life, 
 more or less. There are a few bugs in the game still, like sometimes you might not die from a grenade 
 just a foot away, but it doesn't happen often enough for me to consider it a problem. Most often 
 just being in the same room as a grenade will render you dead. You will try to avoid dying as much 
 as you can though, since the game uses a reinforcementsmeter that goes down whenever someone dies, 
 and once reinforcements are out, you team will no longer have respawns.
  
  Tanks also behave in a similary realistic manner, getting hit straight on will more than often 
 get you killed in one or two shots, but by placing you in a slight angle towards the attacker you 
 can get a few shots to bounce off you. There's also a wide range of antitankweaponry for the footsoldiers, 
 like AT-rifles or Panzerfausts, even a few demolitioncharges for the combat engineers.
  
  All the maps are missionoriented and they differ a bit between maps, most often though you either 
 have for a mission to take terrain, or to defend terrain. Each map has it's own configuration on 
 classes, so it's not like Team Fortress where you have all classes available on all maps, since 
 each map differs so much from the next one. A few maps are at an industrial site, where you will 
 run around on foot, while some are pure tankmaps that are alot bigger. On all maps you battle for 
 controlpoints, on a few of them you try to take all controlpoints for your side, on some you just 
 have to defend until the time runs out for the opposition.
  
  Some maps however are incredibly unbalanced, and playing them feels like a big waste of time. So 
 what server you play on makes a huge difference in wether or not you have a positive experience 
 from the game, as some servers seems to be hosting almost alpha-state maps done by the serveradministrators 
 ten year old daughter as a project in "how to make people on the internet frustrated"-class.
  
  When it comes to controls, they're a bit messy at first, but once you get used to all the buttons, 
 you will feel right at home. Same goes for the realistic aiming with ironsights and the slightly 
 (for modern gamers) strange bullettrajectories.
  
  Basically the positives in Red Orchestra is it's incredible gameplay, it's audio and it's realism. 
 The negatives are the graphics, which are dated, but still ok, and you gotta whine a little about 
 the poor maps out there. (easily avoided by going to decent servers) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lupo72
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 10, 2007 5:34 am PT
Review:  The game is a great WWII multi player shooter where realism and team playing play a major role.
 
  Born as a mod of, I think, unreal tournament, Its graphic is not really up-to-date but effects 
 and sounds are actually beautiful and contribute to create a very amazingly real battle atmosphere.
 
  First of all: Realism. Extreme, beautiful (If you like it!) . The game is a "one shot, one kill" 
 one. One shot and you'll be dead! But it works too in the opposite way! So you'll have to be very 
 careful, to stay under cover and, first of all, to try to play with other players as a team. It 
 can be obviously from time to time quite disappointing, as the game is, I think, quite difficult 
 to learn and successfully to play. In any case, you can play a number of different roles and eventually 
 choose the level of action and stress you want to have. You may play in the front-line with an 
 automatic assault weapon or in the rear with a precise rifle or sniper. You can play as a commander 
 and ask from time to time for artillery attacks. You can play as tank soldier or anti-tank soldier.
 
  A must for any fan of realistic multi-player shooters! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: miyijura
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 3, 2007 3:24 pm PT
Review:  One of the best WW2 games ever. You actually feel the need of cover. No Rambo style allowed or 
 you are dead.
  
  Although some bugs at the moment of take weapons or ammo from your dead fellows, the game play 
 moves smooth.
  
  The sound of weapons, ricochets, background noise and people are amazing if you have a surround 
 system or with a good earphones.
  
  The ballistics are close to real life. The effects of the ricochets on the ground and the time 
 to hit are also very close to real.
  
  The addition of the red army as allies is a refresh to any WW2 series.
  
  A must have for the 
 WW2 FPS fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cbsbyte
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 7, 2007 8:18 am PT
Review:  Red Orchestra is a great mulitplayer game, with solid graphics, game mechanics, battlefields, and 
 great sound. The game is best as a multiplayer, the tutorial single player is fine to learn the 
 basics, but the bots are just too dumb to be of any real use and are quite frustrating. Best way 
 to play is once one learns the basics is to jump into a online game. It might be brutal at first, 
 but you will quickly learn to keep your head down, and learn to crawl, and use the terrain to your 
 advantage. Its best to learn how to work within a team to be better able to complete mission objectives 
 without dying a lot. Going lone wolf will usually result in a quick death by a sniper. There are 
 some very good players online, but most seem to play fair. Graphics are solid, but dated, and the 
 sound could be better but the game mechanics, and battle designs trump those short comings. Plus 
 people are always creating new map for online use. The developers periodically add more content 
 and fix know issue to make playing more interesting. This is a much more realistic FPS mulitplayer 
 game than Counter Strike, or DoD. Its amazing how detail the world is with bombed out buildings, 
 or open Ukraine Steps. The developer made the world realistic as can be, guns can overheat, run 
 out of ammo, jam and MG barrels must be changed when they wear out. Bullets and tanks shells have 
 realistic effected by gravity and wind. Learn to lead moving targets at a distance. Players can 
 only run short distances before tiring, and breathing effect accuracy and stamina. One hit kill 
 are common. Most tanks in the game have similar characteristics as the real tanks they are modeled. 
 Artillery can be called in from certain points. How the game works is you choose which side you 
 want to play. Either German or Russian. Then you choose your class, for example sniper, infantry, 
 storm trooper, vehicle crew, anti-tank, MG gunner, squad leader and sapper. Each class has its 
 own play type. If you are a MG you support the squad, by laying down cover fire. Squad leader lead 
 the squad. Vehicle crew are the only one that can operate tanks. Anti-tank solider must try to 
 protect their side by taking out enemy tanks. Well you get the picture. Then you join in the fight. 
 You can communicate with your side by selecting dozens of pre-created messages to send to them, 
 or use voice commands if you have the proper set up. I found the message commands menu pretty difficult 
 to use in the game with all the action happening around. Each side had objectives to take or defend 
 depending on the map. In all this is a great game if one enjoys realistic battle simulation with 
 combined forces. It might not be someones cup of tea if they like to run and gun, and play lone 
 wolf. Online games can be frustrating at first, but people will learn quickly that they have to 
 act as a team. Communication is important. Looking out for your squad mates is equally important. 
 Situation awareness is also very important since you never know when any enemy sniper will start 
 picking people off on your side, or a enemy tank runs you down. It as real as it gets with out 
 joining the army. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: classic7
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 17, 2008 8:50 am PT
Review:  If COD and MOH are just getting too old then RO is the game your looking for. This is definitely 
 one of those games that "Grow on you". At first i thought i had just wasted $20, but after awhile 
 it has become a personal favorite of mine. Like the devs at Tripwire say "Most games make you feel 
 like your in a war movie, Ro makes you feel like your in the war itself. The realism is unparrallelled, 
 from the gore to the weapons and combat, this is truly an immersive experience. The classes are 
 amazingly well balanced and the Tank combat is the best you'll see in any game. The days of a tank 
 run by one player are over, you'll need atleast a crew of two and if you can get a MG man he can 
 get the anti-Tank infantry off your back. Between the artillery ripping your comrades too pieces, 
 too the insanely giant tank skirmishes this game is truly epic. It's not for everyone but you owe 
 it to yourself to at least try it. If you think your a good FPS player, you don't know jack until 
 you play RO. Now for the simple lowdown.
  
  Gameplay- One of the most epic gaming experiences i have witnessed. Another great thing is that 
 the game doesn't reward for uber pwning but for capturing bases and defending your own, so no one 
 can brag or be a dick. A nice change form games like COD and CS.
  
  Graphics- Not as amazing as Halo 3 or something but it does get the job done, especially in the 
 gore department. ( Best gore in almost any game) .
  
  Sound- The weapons sounds are spot on and historically accurate, and the musical score is one of 
 the best in FPS history.
  
  Value- This game is gonna be big in the next few years. With two HUGE expansion mods this game 
 is gonna spread to the deserts of North Africa and to the shores of Italy.
  
  Reviewers Tilt- I love this game!! Nuff said. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sjmey91
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 21, 2007 5:25 pm PT
Review:  its the best game ive played so far. red orchestra being steam powered is realy great actualy because 
 it gives many up dates and steam will lead to games you have probably never heard of. red orchestra 
 gives a+ gameplay with 9.0 graphics. the updates are great and sometimes are huge just like the 
 summer assault update just added and the mods that will soon be released. the game is for people 
 who like to play with bigtime realism. one bad thing though is if you have bad internet connection, 
 i mean realy bad, it will ruin the multiplayer, the primary function. but there is still single 
 player ( practice) . it is the same thing except there bots. though like the gamespot reviewer said, 
 bots ar really dumb so set the difficulty to about medium. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kamerad
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 26, 2007 10:09 am PT
Review:  I've played, Metal of Honor, Wolfenstein, Call of Duty, and Battlefield 1942, Halo and i've yet 
 to see a shooter game catch as meny points in my book as Red Orchestra. Though i'm not a big fan 
 of shooters these days, mainly because i'm getting older, and I can't keep up with the newer age 
 of players these days, I found this perhaps the best shooter on the internet at this moment. The 
 game designers took realism and jumped it up a few more notches, it is so well done, really players 
 can not even act the spray style combat which has destroyed most other shooters. Spray as in taking 
 a SMG and run around blitzing everyone while spaming out bullets. Red Orchestra, players who attempt 
 this end up dead, not even Call of Duty was able to destroy the concept of the SMG rush like Red 
 Orchestra pulled off. Combined with extra detail as over heating machine gun barrels, which can 
 be changed if you play on the German team, reloading guns goes quick when you still have a bullet 
 in the gun, and damage on some parts of ones body will decrease ones combat effectiveness, to the 
 massive almost simulator style armored warfare, makes Red Orchestra a World War II nuts best friend, 
 when it comes to authenticity. While most shooters ignored making a more simulation style when 
 it comes to armored warfare, Red Orchestra took the gamble and proved the more real, the more fun 
 tanks are. I mean if you can have a shell bounce off one tank and kill another sitting next to 
 it, you know they took a lot of extra effort on needless things, which makes this game a step above 
 everything else. It is just not another pretty face to look out, like Gears of War. But a extremely 
 enjoyable game, I bought this game out of fear, hearing it's player population has drastically 
 dropped, but after playing it, I wonder why? It is 100% online, No single player other than practise 
 mode vs bots, which are idiots in how they move around the map but deadly aim if set on high difficulty. 
 Graphics are great, not as realistic as Call of Duty 2 or above, but again, for PC, graphics over 
 gameplay is always a second mark. The game is very complicated, it is pretty hard to learn how 
 to player, and it's pretty hard even for me, I've played Call of Duty United Offensive up the kazoo, 
 and even though the games are kind of similar, Red Orchestra took me days to adapt to. The style 
 of the players you play against is more Pro than anything i've seen in a very long time. I have 
 no choice but to claim this game as perhaps the best First Person World War II shooter on the internet. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChestyMcGee
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 18, 2007 8:47 am PT
Review:  As I have mentioned, RO is not a game for everyone. The slow movement speeds, the less than ordinary 
 controls and the complicated weapon physics (not to mention the tank stlye) can make it tedius 
 for some. Therefore I recommend looking into the game before buying it... unless you're one of the 
 lucky ones with plenty of money to spare.
  
  Firstly, the graphics on RO, using the Unreal 2 engine, are very good mostly. Although the map 
 textures on the ground and walls etc are only average, the models and the textures on the weapons 
 especially are astoundingly good (even on lower-end graphics cards) . Although such things that 
 are usually visual treats, such as grass and hedges and trees, are not the greatest graphics seen 
 it doens't ruin the game a whole lot.
  
  The soundeffects in the game really are good. At close range they are loud and echo quietly into 
 the distance. From far away, however, they are but angry cracks on the wind. Usually this sort 
 of noise is ambient but, for the most part, on RO they are actually there and can be tracked down 
 to something or someone on the map.
  
  Onto gameplay. Obviously this game is realistic but, unlike alot of games that claim to be realistic 
 , it isn't all about one shot kills and slower movement. The weapons handle completely differently 
 from what to be expected: all of the weapons move around the screen freely with no crosshair to 
 simulate firing from the hip and are only controlable when looking down the sights (you will rarely 
 get a kill from the hip without spraying wildely) ; weapons such as panzershrecks, tank cannons 
 and machine-guns have gravity to consider when firing long distances - bullets drop, nothing is 
 impervious to gravity; another point on machine-guns, unlike in Call of Duty 3 where they can be 
 fired with relative accuracy without deployment, the mg's must be laid down on something or at 
 least braced, but even when braced they are still madly innacurate.
  
  The tank battles in the game are nothing like Battlefield 1942 and other games or the style. Each 
 tank requires atleast two crewmembers to operate: a driver and a commander/gunner plus and optional 
 machinegunner. Although this can be sometimes irritating - especially when you get in a tank with 
 a bunch of utter noobs for a crew - it can also be very intense and make you feel like a great 
 team. As with every online game, however, it can only be as good as the people you play with which 
 you hardly realise are there seen as they hardly ever communicate with each other despite all of 
 the emphasis on teamwork. Another bad point is the eccesive loading times (this is on 512RAM and 
 high graphics settings) and, on most servers, the 2 round limit on matches. It can be very irritating 
 to find you've finnaly loaded a map, the first round has been strangely short and now you've only 
 got one round to play before another awful loading time. This said, the game is still very enjoyable 
 and exciting despite its minor flaws. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SciFiShooterGUY
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 2, 2007 11:37 am PT
Review:  If it wasn't for the graphics, this game would have a 10 score. A bad way to start a review I guess. 
 Still, I am somewhat impressed with the graphic quality. One really reminded me of the game STALKER 
 visually in almost all ways but high detail. Its better than the original UT2003 engine for sure. 
 I complement some of the more new maps with much better models and texture detail. I for instance, 
 didnt like the huge field maps, that had those huge block meshes behind a few trees, And there 
 was this one new map I saw that had much ore detail inm forest areas than the field map. It was 
 more realistic.
  Speaking of realistic, this game is the closest to WW2 realism I can think of. So, I never played 
 flashpoint, but for some reason this looks or feels like that game I never played. But with a lot 
 more visual detail. Multiplayer is were this game is strong. I wouldm't recommend getting into 
 singleplayer training, because AI is weak and dumb. In fact for Multiplayer, its not even worth 
 playing with AI. Do stick to human vs. human, at all costs. I dont like the auto download feature 
 for most games, because I dont like getting loaded with maos that arent that impressive or fun 
 to play on. To me realism and challenge is fun. Not massacre-suicide maps.
  Another thing about multiplayer, I don't mind a little rough housing talk and cursing. But, It 
 really takes out of the gameplay mood, when people start talking filthy in ways that just make 
 me want to leave. Not that it is directed at me. Just that you hear sick junk sometimes.
  But, no worries as there are a few, and growing servers with seriouse players that are there for 
 playing and having fun. Rather than talking S*** and goofing off. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Capitalist
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 15, 2007 5:23 pm PT
Review:  Red Orchestra, the stand-alone version of the Unreal Tournament 2004 mod, is a team-based multiplayer 
 game based on World War II's Eastern Front, which pitted the Wehrmacht and the Red Army in a desperate 
 and bloody struggle that ended with the Battle of Berlin in 1945
  
  Faithful to nearly every single multiplayer team shooter out there, Red Orchestra has teams of 
 players attempting to defend and hold/attack and hold certain landmarks on a map. There are a good 
 number of different classes of soldiers one can play as, such as assault troopers, riflement, snipers, 
 machine-gunners, etc, etc. Also, in an interesting note, the game doesn't keep track of one's kills. 
 Players are ranked by how many points they accumulate, and although kills offer one point each, 
 the vast bulk of points are awarded for teamwork. For instance, when one's team captures a certain 
 landmark on the map, and you happen to be within the vicinity of that landmark, one gets his fair 
 share of points. Points are also awarded by keeping machine-gunners fed with ammunition, but that 
 is pretty much it.
  
  In terms of vehicular combat, the game offers a good number of realistically modelled tanks, assault 
 guns, and armoured personel carriers. In another interesting note pertaining to these tanks, tanks 
 and assault need at least two people to operate them properly - one man to gun, one man to drive. 
 Also, whether you are a gunner or driver, you only get a limited viewing of your surroundings through 
 first person only.
  
  What is rather interesting about Red Orchestra is how close the game is in terms of historical 
 authenticity and accuracy. There are no crossairs; one must aim with the iron ights of his gun. 
 There is no third-person view when driving vehicles; one must drive a vehicle from a rather limited 
 first-person/cockpit view. Machine-guns run out of ammo very quickly, and the recoil of submachine 
 guns and rifles is pretty high.
  
  Graphics-wise, the game does look rather nice, with nicely modelled vehicles and somewhat crisp 
 textures. There are no special next-gen smoke or lighting effects, but overall the game does look 
 nice, with wide sweeping maps dotted with small hamlets and farms, along with some vegetation. 
 The only complaint that can be lodged against the graphics is about how very generic the character 
 models are, and how stiffly and unrealistically they animate.
  
  In terms of sound, all the weapons sound quite good, with that nice kick to them. The voice commands 
 are decent as well, in their respective German/Russian. But, there is hardly any music in the game, 
 and the sounds, although they sound functional and are quite pleasing to the ear, are nothing special.
 
  
  Overall, if this is some of the more decent multiplayer shooters out there, based in a rarely used 
 setting (the Eastern Front) with functional (yet hardcore and realistic) gameplay mechanics, and 
 a decent and mature community. The only criticisms I can lodge against the game is perhaps the 
 fact that the models animate quite poorly, but otherwise, for an indie game, this game offers a 
 solid and functional multiplayer experience for only a mere twenty dollars. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pehota
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 7, 2007 6:21 am PT
Review:  Well, this game really disappoints me, even though creators wanted us players to feel full reality 
 of war, hmmmm reality is sucks. You move very slow (if you play CS SOURCE, it will be real pain 
 for you, it takes like forever to run over field ect) weapons are so slow, i mean u reload after 
 one shot, but there are mashing guns but they sucks too, cant hit anything.
  
  Graphics is amazing! as always! HL2 engine baby! However Gameplay is just waste of time and disappointment. 
 Too much reality destroys the pleasure of gaming.
  
  You also can ride in various tanks! this is the best part, from all staff, tank battle maps are 
 the best and much more amuzing than anything. u acctually feel it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bodylotion
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 16, 2007 4:05 pm PT
Review:  Red Orchestra is a very realistic game which is very interesting because there aren't too many 
 war games like this. The positive part about this game is that you have use tactics to stay alive 
 and also you have to place your shot carefully because you have to reload with the rifles.
  
  On the other side this can also be an irritating game if you're playing this game too long, 
 sometimes u just want to storm to the enemy and kill them but that won't work in this game. For 
 the people that want to play a fresh new game try this one. If you prefer less realistic games 
 really u shouldn't think about buying this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DemonOfloom
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 11, 2007 4:02 am PT
Review:  At times this game can be frustrating, but mostly its just an amazing game. Imagine a level of 
 Call of Duty with all of the scripted explosions happaning around you, then take away the scripting 
 and that is what RO feels like alot of the time. Its all about being a team, aiming and using cover. 
 You see unless you use an item to lean your gun on your aim will wobble abit, and since alot of 
 weapons are Bolt action (one shot, bolt it) every shot matters. You'll probably like this game 
 if your sick of the running and shooting of other games, and want a really good game that actually 
 feels like cover means something. I guess you could say its a good trench game, with opposing sides 
 exchanging fire from behind cover being making a charge. There used to be a problem with the viewing 
 distance being abit blurry, while this still remains it has been improved upon.
  
  Buy it, love it, play it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EddieElNino
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 27, 2007 8:45 pm PT
Review:  Alright so I'm like a lot of you gamers looking for a new kind of game. So i stumble across this 
 world war two shooter for like 20 bucks so i decided to pick it up . after i joined a server i 
 realize this ain't no other shooter. The thing that is really good about this game is realism it 
 is IMPRESSIVE to say the least! After playing for about an hour i still realized i was still learning 
 new stuff to do and that i needed to refine the things i thought. One of the more fun things in 
 the game are the tanks. 
  The combat is incredibly realistic and that was a refreshing change after other games where your 
 tank takes hit after hit. The urban combat is truly innovative the difficulty is nice and tactics 
 really apply in this game and you really need to cooperate with your team to take the challenge. 
 The only real downside is the lack of an efficient server system which you can expect to lose a 
 lot of of your speed while playing and causes lag in the high 100's or 200's. Well in summary this 
 game is awesome and you should go pick it up it is only 20 bucks@! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bgemmill
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jan 26, 2007 12:37 am PT
Review:  At first I hated this game. I couldn't hit anything (let alone see my targets at long distance) 
 when I first played it. So I ended up shelving it for a couple months.
  
  I pulled it back out yesterday and gave it a second chance. I played some practice maps and got 
 a feel for the aiming system. I figured out how much I had to lead my targets and all that good 
 stuff. After all that I went online and holy crap it was fun.
  
  Once you figure out the aiming you can easily take people out. I don't know if they're firing to 
 quickly, not supporting their weapon when they aim, or just plain suck at shooting, but people 
 seem to have trouble with shooting accurately in this game.
  
  Taking your time and placing a well aimed shot on your target is a much better idea than jerking 
 your mouse and quickly snapping off a volley of rounds at someone. Fire when you're confident you'll 
 hit your target and you will most likely end up hitting the target.
  
  Sneak up behind the other team, use cover, stay concealed, don't let people know you've moved to 
 the side of their main attacking force, silently stab enemy players and take their weapons so that 
 your fire from behind doesn't draw as much attention. Most importantly: think. People don't like 
 this game because they're used to Counterstrike or other first-person shooter games where you run 
 out and shoot the other guy before he shoots you. I was expecting the same thing when I first got 
 this game, and I hated it. If you're looking for a somewhat realistic shooter experience I'd reccomend 
 this game.
  
  Also, I don't know why people complain about an Overpowered sharpshooter class. All that class 
 gets is the regular rifleman's weapon with a scope mounted on it. The rifle that the Rifleman carries 
 is the same weapon as the Sharpshooter's rifle, it just lacks the long range scope that gives the 
 Sharpshooter better shot-placement. Also, the game has class limits. The maps I played tonight 
 had a limit of 1 sniper per team. Once you get used to the aiming system, it's really not that 
 hard to pick people off at distances with the standard rifles anyways.
  
  Fun game, good graphics, good sound and gore (dude's legs/arms getting blown off and stuff) .
 
  
  Forgot to add: You HAVE to play this game at 1024x768 resolution. Playing in 800x600 blurs your 
 view of the weapon's sights, making for a frustrating experience when you're trying to shoot someone 
 at distance. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jade_Monkey
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 22, 2007 10:14 am PT
Review:  I first heard of Red Orchestra when I read the IGN review of it. It said that it was a very realistic 
 game, and I wanted to find out how much of that is ture. It is very true people. There is no crosshair, 
 I think the damage from shots is much closer to reality than many other games, and you really can't 
 drive a vehicle yourself and expect to do much with it.
  
  Presentation:
  
  Red Orchestra encompasses a bunch of video options that will let a variety of systems run it. Two 
 options that are missing that I think should be there is anti-aliasing, and anisotropic filtering. 
 They could of made the game look better than it does. The menu layout is easy to navigate and works 
 without a hitch. Graphics:
  
  Red Orchastra is no all star when it comes to the beauty department. I am running the game on the 
 highest settings at a resolution of 1680*1050 and the graphics are so-so. The detail on the guns 
 is pretty good, and on your characters hands, but other areas are lacking. The ground mainly. There 
 is very little detail in the ground. It's this barren surface that has some really fake looking 
 grass and other plant life coming from it. Trees look very fake to. Explosions are done nicely, 
 but the results are not. After an explosion there is very little damage left to the ground. No 
 crater or anyting like that, just some black stain there. The smoke and dust on the other hand 
 is very well done and are probably the best part of the game graphicly. The blood was fairly good 
 when I see it splattered on the walls or ground. Not F. E. A. R. good or Day of Defeat Source good, 
 but still good in it's own right. The vehicles don't look bad, they just don't look great either, 
 they are in that middle ground. I didn't notice any clipping errors or framerate problems.
  
  Sound:
  
  This game rocks on a decent speaker setup. The bullets wizzing past your head 
 are great, and when vehicles are getting shot up is also awesome. Another thing I like is whenever 
 you hear explosions or gunfire in the distance, it's usually the result of actual fighting going 
 on, unlike in Day of Defeat where you can hear some huge war going on when your all by your lonesome 
 on the server. Gameplay:
  
  Like I said earlier, if you want a realistic game, this ones for you. You need to use the ironsight 
 to line up shots, no crosshair for you. Another nice touch is that you can have your weapon shot 
 out of your hand. I noticed this when my machine gun suddenly flew away and I look down and there 
 it is on the ground with blood by it and my hand dripping in blood. You will probably spend a lot 
 of your time crawling if you don't want to get shot often. That's fine by me. One thing I don't 
 like is that the flag or objective doesn't always clearly show how close I am to capturing it. 
 There are bars and what not but I don't really fully understand them yet. This game really is a 
 team effort, I have not yet seen one guy win the game all by themself. When you die you can respawn 
 at your forward most post, unlike DOD where your always at the rear. There is also no ammo count, 
 you know your running low by either counting your shots, or hearing that nice click when shooting. 
 Always a nice sound to hear in the middle of a firefight, but I love it for the realism. The signs 
 on bases are in either Russian or German depending on the base, which is a very nice touch. The 
 controls are easy for anyone who has played FPS before. I didn't notice any glitches while playing.
 
  
  Lasting Appeal: There are many maps to play, and support for user created maps. The download speed 
 to get these in game is far better than any Steam game I have played before. There is no game wide 
 stats tracking, it varies server to server, but I can live with that. This is a very fun game for 
 realsim fans and should keep you entertained for some time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Madcows
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jan 16, 2007 9:11 pm PT
Review:  This is a very realistic game. If you like that then this is the game for you. Each team supports 
 different classes of soldiers, which is good and bad. The good thing is you can't have 20 snipers 
 or 20 Mgs out on the field. The bad thing is the same thing. If youre online and youre not the 
 fastest comp on the server you will get stuck with a bolt action for most on the game. This fact 
 makes the online play a real pain with not alot of replay value. The realism you really have to 
 get used too. No and I mean no magic crosshair no hip shooting and if you want to know how many 
 bullets you have left you'll know when you aim and hear CLICK!, CLICK! , Damn it I'm dead. The 
 traces are a nice touch every 5 rounds or so with the Mgs, Along with the ricochets. They do have 
 tanks, but it takes 3 ppl to run them a gunner, driver and a commander. Which is a good concept, 
 But not if one of the ppl in the tank is retarded. This is a team game if you run out with no cover 
 or if you dont know where the enemy is or if you dont have a weapon to take out that damn sniper 
 thats waiting for you are getting shot .And one round is all it takes. If they could mix this 
 one with some of the other ones like Call of duty or Battlefield 2 and 2142 you would have a great 
 game. But things being what they are its fun to play but gets old pretty fast. Loan it from a friend 
 that has got bored of it. Or buy it cheap. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dave_gene_pico
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 16, 2007 12:04 am PT
Review:  In a world with First Person Shooters like the Call of Duty series, Counter-Strike, and the Battlefield 
 Franchise, one company was brave enough to stand up among them and do something completely different. 
 Tripwire stood up, and to me, should be noticed by gamers.
  
  Tripwire uses the Unreal Engine, which is a superb one. This game stands out amongst all shooters, 
 because it is a very realistic game. You can get killed in one hit by a well-placed pistol round. 
 You are forced to use the sights, unless you want to blindly shoot, and the way I see it, you must 
 use teamwork to win the rounds.
  
  Although a lot of gamers see this as a burden, I see it as a great blessing. Using cover and real-life 
 tactics will get you everywhere in Red Orchestra. However, the forcing of realism upon players 
 might be intimidating, or even frustrating to some gamers. Especially those who are used to games 
 like Counter-Strike.
  
  The sound of this game is incredible. I feel like I'm in a battlefield. The guns sound great, and 
 the only sounds in the game are what is being made by the players. If a sniper shoots in the distance, 
 you'll hear it. There are no ambient gunshots, artillery blasts, yells, or explosions, unless added 
 into a modded map.
  
  The gameplay is pretty much advance and conquer. You must use your sights to be an accurate shot, 
 but spray and pray can also come in handy at point-blank. However, the realism makes it fun to 
 play, if you're into that sort of thing in a first person shooter.
  
  The graphics are pretty bad, by recent standards. Although it does use an older engine, it is still 
 a little hard to look at sometimes. The graphics are a bit grainy, which makes it hard to spot 
 enemies sometimes, but this won't be too great of a problem.
  
  Another bad thing is it requires Steam activation even through a box purchase, and you need to 
 be logged into Steam to use it. However, downloading, installing, and registering with Steam doesn't 
 take too long (if you have a good connection) .
  
  The online community ranges from lousy players to awesome players. However, unless you truly abide 
 to the realism of the game, you will be amongst the lousy players. Act how you would in real life 
 in this game. Conserve ammunition, use cover, interact with teammates, and use the Four F's.
  
  I recommend this game to anyone who is in the mood for a great realistic shooter, or in the 
 mood for something new. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: outdoorbob52
Rating: 3.4
Date: Jan 10, 2007 9:14 pm PT
Review:  Could be an interesting game but unless you have hours and hours of free time to devote to it don't 
 count on much enjoyment. It should have stayed as a mod with a handful of dedicated players, as 
 it is it seems to be a way for the better players on every server to get their jollies by offing 
 new players just as fast as they can and raking points... zzzzzz. The concept of teamwork is what 
 real combat training is all about, not being a shoot em up cowboy but that's exactly what you get 
 with this game so save you money and play it for free once in awhile when offered, that's about 
 all you'll be able to stand. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dacopper
Rating: 3.2
Date: Mar 23, 2007 11:15 pm PT
Review:  Man, what a disappointment. After reading how realistic and addictive the game was, decided to 
 give it a shot and... disappointment. Huge and realistic maps coincide very badly with slow-mo-like-movement, 
 awkward weapon control and horrible vehicle control. Vehicle control is so bad, you just want to 
 jump out of it and trade it for a bolt-action rifle. Then there are grenades, don't even bother 
 with them. For some reason they don't fly very far and unless you thew it into a window, there's 
 a good chance it will cause you more damage than to your opponent. Oh yeah, about damages, I have 
 to give it to the game designers - very realistic. If you're hit in an arm, you can't hold your 
 weapon. Hit in a leg will slow you down. But what the heck are you supposed to do for the rest 
 of the game if you can't hold your anti-tank gun, with and only a pistol against a tank (there 
 are no medics in the game and no way to heal yourself) ??? So useless.
  Before you get into a multi-player mode, you probably want to get yourself up to the speed in Practice 
 mode. Not exactly it works that way. Single-player mode is only good to get a feel on the controls 
 and maps. AI is dumb. Your AI team mates get stuck behind object and drive themselves into ditches. 
 Enemy AI are easy moving targets even with highest difficulty set. Seriously, this Practice should've 
 been called Map introductory mode as it doesn't give you any idea what to expect battle-wise.
 
  In short, if you expect it to be another Battlefield or Brothers in Arm, welcome to my nightmare.
 
  P. S. Later, I wanted to sell this useless junk to somebody who may appreciate it a little better, 
 but since it utilizes Steam service, it's impossible. I had wasted $30 for a pretty plastic box 
 that I'm stuck with, damn it!!! So, I lowered games value to 1 and my tilt to 2. Enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VikingFighter
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 30, 2006 2:21 pm PT
Review:  Not even mentioning the practice mode this game is truly something new. It includeds all new german 
 weapons, and first seen russian weapons. I dont recall any other game give you such a great personal 
 load out options. - Weapons : are plenty and really make you plan strategy, yet they somethimes 
 set you back because a K98k (bolt action rifle) has no chance at close range against a sub machine 
 gun, yet when it comes to distance and accuracy and combat at far distence the SMG would have no 
 chance ( Nope not even lucky shots)
  
  - Maps: Great varity ! everything from (pretty much ) all tank maps to all infanrty maps are avalible. 
 The maps are truly something new, nothing like MOH or CoD or even BIA has such a great varity of 
 maps. Now mostly all maps are really intersting and are set up differently from the rest. The bad 
 thing is that you need to study them. Yes, if you dont know all the angles you will end up pinned 
 down or might even get shoot at by your team mates due to your position. -Tanks: IF you find a 
 good partner that has VC (voice com) you will probably wipe out the entire map. Then again, if 
 you dont YOUR F**KED STRAID UP THE A** !!!! cause there is nothing worse then seeing an enemie 
 tank and then realzing that your partner has the cannon aimed the other way ! Also you better practice 
 alot to get the feel for the guns ..... great, reality tells us all tanks handle and shoot different 
 ... thing is .... so does the game so you need to adapt to every single type of tank there is in 
 order to be effective.
  
  Dont think i love this game so much i would defend it in a argument ! i might due to the strong 
 points of it but it has its flaws ... the game is not set up on a one hit your dead but pretty 
 close, so sometimes you just drop dead without knowing WTF happend. most of the times all the good 
 guns and rifles are gone so your stuck with what is left. TO MAKE THIS GAME A 10/10 FOR YOUR SELF 
 JOIN A CLAN WITH VC AND THEN IT IS A WHOLE DIFFERENT GAME !!! THEN IT IS TRULY FANTASTIC !!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joeyrules
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 28, 2006 10:35 am PT
Review:  This game is the best WW2 shooter i have ever played. Excellent graphics, sound and gameplay. A 
 must-have. This game is a little hard to learn how to play but once you know how it is an incredible 
 game. It is a little hard not being able to shoot from the hip, but once you get the hang of it, 
 it is loads of fun. The steam also makes it an even better game. Finally, Red Orchestra has the 
 best sounds i have ever heard coming from a game, very realistic and, the physics are absloutley 
 fantastic! BUt, too bad you cant use the Americans, that would make the game a 10! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dude141
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 12, 2006 8:11 pm PT
Review:  This is a fun multiplayer game if your into realisim, but if your not you will proably spend most 
 of your time screaming at the computer screen saying thats gay ive taken 1000 rounds to the face 
 before in medal of honor why cant i do it in this game , well thats cause the game is ultra realistic 
 basicly if you get shot anywhere beside the foot 2 times your gunna die. the game is fun still 
 but sometimes you do want to take 1000 rounds to the faace and live while blowing other people 
 apart. the gameplay is good , it has nice use of vehichles in it, the shooting is veryy real with 
 the no crosshair but in also kinda auto aims where the guy is, not 2 a tee but if you wiggle the 
 mouse around you wil proably hit him, but then again your best bet is just to pull up your iron 
 sights. graphics are not so good on the other hand everything seems really pixely and huge like 
 the textures on the ground for example . phewwwwwww lets just keep it at that lol. sound is deffinatly 
 the best part of the game it is just amazing espcically if you have a high end sound card the gun 
 sounds are fantasticl my fav 1 are the ghwer 41 and 43
  . overall the games is exremely fun but you have to have a deep love for realisim. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: swedish-marine
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 11, 2006 3:37 pm PT
Review:  + Weapons Handeling and mechanism, Sounds.
  
  - Graphics Engine is feeling old, too open landscapes that leaves a bad balance between the classes, 
 one-shot-one-kill is not helping when Snipers are already over-powered, weapon models is looking 
 very bad from time to time visually. As many other Multiplayer First Person Shooters of today this 
 game focuses on class-based teamplay to claim a variety of different positions around the map. 
 Teamplay is there, it's feeling authentic but it's too slow or frustrating since the game is put 
 up such an way you're dead by one or two bullets as the other guys would just as well just be sittin' 
 around a spawn-point all day leaving you a hell of an frustating situation. Graphics are feeling 
 a few years old, at least to the environmental parts of it. The faces and likely could be looking 
 really good from time to time but there's rarely an uportinity to look at the models faces since 
 you'll be busy as it is to either look for snipers on enourmous lanscapes or trying to find your 
 patch in small, dark corridors. Controls are really annoying since the set is split up in a way 
 you most likely haven't ever seen before just as there's just so much to do manually compared to 
 many other First Person Shooters. But that's why this game works more as an simulator than a Multiplayer-game 
 in my eyes. In the start of the game it's about impossible to tell which uniform and models are 
 for which team since you won't be seeing more than smaller pixels and heads of them pop up from 
 cover a little now and then which could leave you with a severe negative score when you first pick 
 it up and start fighting. To me this game is NOT worth buying as Americas Army 2.8.0 is doing the 
 same thing dramaticly better while it's also free. Brothers in Arms is certainly a better game 
 than this though it's a bit older. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Homes225
Rating: 7.7
Date: Dec 9, 2006 6:33 pm PT
Review:  Red Orchestra originated from a Unreal Tournament 2004 mod that used the Unreal 2 engine. After 
 a huge success online with the mod and many awards , Tripwire Interactive deicided to make a full 
 game. Now RO joins Steam library and looks a lot better on Half-Life&sup2;'s Source engine. The 
 graphics for RO are average for an FPS even with the Source engine though it has medium requirements 
 to play the game. Steam has promoted RO many times with price drops and free trial weekends which 
 have helped sales. The gameplay is very realistic with your loadout being historically accurate 
 and your weapon's accuracy isn't the same everytime you fire it. There are 10+ maps which adds 
 a lot of variety and replayablity. Another cool thing about the maps are the whole server votes 
 at the end of the current map for the next battlefield. Long loads (along the lines of BF2 loads) 
 can hold back players with lower end PCs and that is never fun. RO is mainly multiplayer game and 
 executes this premise fairly well but playing single player is a waste of time due to dumb as a 
 rock A. I. and loss of the war feeling you get from MP. If you haven't played RO try the free trials 
 that are released then if you like the action packed game download it off Steam for the low price 
 of $20. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamerguy31315
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 9, 2006 9:51 am PT
Review:  Red Orchestra is a great new experience for FPS fans. The main advantage of the game is realism 
 (if you like that, if u dont then just leave now and dont get this game) . Let me give some examples 
 of the realism. Guns can be shot out of ur hand. Where your hit actually affects you. If you get 
 hit in the arm u drop ur gun. If you get hit in the leg u have drastically reduced mobility. its 
 very hard to tell what team ur on so u have to learn the colors. The only thing i dont like about 
 this game is that vehicles. Their very complicated to operate and u need help. One person to operate 
 the guns and another to drive which can be hard to coordinate. IF this is a problem for u though 
 theres lots of infantry only maps which rock. Basically, if you like WW2 shooters and want a realistic 
 game with alot of depth then you should try Red Orchestra. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Archer_11
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 3, 2006 8:23 am PT
Review:  The game pulls you into it by how stunningly life like it seems. I know that with me, the battle 
 I fight in this game, I have dreams about, (if the battle is really good) . The guns are very well 
 made, with their iron sights, recoil, sound, optics, and reload. I've shot the K98k and the M91/30 
 and the only difference is you can feel the kick off the real thing, but not in the game. Which 
 is kind of expected. I kind of think this game is better than Day of Defeat, and any other WWII 
 shooter out there. I will recommend this game to everyone, and leave it to you to decide if you 
 like it or not. So while you do that, I'll keep on playing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ooh_Snap
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 26, 2006 11:50 am PT
Review:  Looking for a wholesome multiplayer video game with a mature community, stable player base, extremely 
 addictive gameplay, realism, lack of gamey tripe, and innovative technical achievement? Look no 
 further, Tripwire Interactive's Red Orchestra: Ostfront is the game for you.
  
  Red Orchestra: Ostfront takes place, as the name suggests, on the eastern front of World War II. 
 While World War II may seem to be an uninspired, stale setting (something you've seen a million 
 times before, be it via the horrible Call of Duty series, the laughable Day of Defeat duo, or the 
 mediocre Brothers in Arms) Tripwire Interactive pleasantly surprises and delivers a game that will 
 blow your mind ten times over with its crazy attention to realism.
  
  Red Orchestra is the resultant super-child of an Unreal Tournament mod of the same name. The Red 
 Orchestra mod won a highly-pubicized competition, and, as a result, the million dollars prize money 
 spawned Tripwire Interactive, and the new and improved Red Orchestra. Similarly to other mod-game-things 
 (Day of Defeat, Counter-Strike) , Red Orchestra is available on Steam for a low price. Again similarly, 
 Red Orchestra is a multiplayer-only game. While it does offer a single-player experience in which 
 it starts up a server and populates it with bots, Red Orchestra's sports AI that makes you want 
 to pound the keyboard until your knuckles bleed, and you're much better off just launching yourself 
 headfirst into the multiplayer experience that makes this game so engaging. The learning curve, 
 as a result of the intense attention to realism, is prolonged and you'll often find yourself, in 
 the first few moments of playing the game, cursing yourself for spending money on this piece of 
 crap. However, after a few rounds and a chance to fully absorb and appreciate the game, you will 
 find yourself in the midst of one of the greatest multiplayer games, ever. The attention to detail 
 is striking, as you'll find foxholes, craters, smoldering rubble, overturned vehicles, downed trees, 
 trenches, sandbag and log fortifications, and tree stumps, to hide behind, as well as an abundance 
 of empty beer bottles and an excess of discarded cigarettes, propaganda posters plastered on the 
 sides of buildings (some of which cleverly have dev caricatures superimposed upon them) , road signs, 
 and a huge amount of dead livestock (famously, the dead cows on a handful of maps are the brunt 
 of numerous inside jokes within the Red Orchestra community) . The vehicles are beautifully constructed 
 and masterfully detailed, and the weapons look like they have been extracted direct from real life.
 
  
  The sounds, too, are amazing, a pinnacle of Red Orchestra's technical achievement. Sporting some 
 of the most realistic sounds in gaming, Red Orchestra does a fantastic job of making sure you feel 
 as if you're there on the battlefield. Another aspect of the game's technical achievement is the 
 ability for you to rest your rifle, SMG, MG, whatever, upon objects. Whenever you come up to an 
 object, be it a window, a sandbag, or tree stump, an icon shows up that you are able to rest your 
 weapon upon it, which dramatically reduces recoil and increases your ability to shoot well. You'll 
 see no such thing in that Call of Duty tripe that most of the gaming community fondly adores!
 
  
  All in all, the striking attention to realism, the emphasis on teamwork, the incredible detail, 
 and more technical gameplay experience, makes Red Orchestra: Ostfront one of the pioneers of gaming 
 and literally the best multiplayer experience in the history of gaming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pasirris
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 21, 2006 12:35 am PT
Review:  Red Orchestra: Ostfront 41-45, what can I say. This game is the best WWII sim to date, although 
 it could do a little better on the graphics, ROOST is awesome. The first release of the game wasn't 
 pleasing, but after a few patches ROOST is really shining like a star. For people for love realistic 
 infantry fighting, you got it. For people for love realistic tank battles, you got it. They still 
 have to sort out several bugs and issues with the system but, soon by 2008, I hope they stamp out 
 all the problems. With the free booster packs streaming in every 1-2 months or so, the final version 
 of ROOST will be so much better when it was first released. For people who are uber awesome noob 
 pwners on games like BF2 or CoD2, you might find this game not to your liking. The current version 
 that ROOST is on is showing it's age but I don't mind so long I have the realism there. I really 
 like the recent booster pack, the one with the Panzer MK IV, Universal Carrier, Danzig (The Map) 
 &amp; Tank re-colours, hopefully more tanks like the StuG III G and other tanks that I'm not aware 
 of will be added. Please, consider buying this game, the bugs and issues will be sorted out soon 
 enough. Plus you get more content every month or so! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Whitsel
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 9, 2006 11:09 pm PT
Review:  As Many Know (If You Have Read My Reviews That Is) I Only Play Offline/Singleplayer, Thus AI Is 
 Important To Me And PPL Like Myself.
  To get strait to to the AI isnt as bad as many people make it sound like. Ofcourse if you play 
 on the easiest settings the AI Bots will walk around missing everything they shoot at, but on the 
 mid-harder settings the Bots can be compared with Battlefield 2 &amp; 2142's bots, not overly intelligent 
 but good enough and great shots, however, on the hardest setting the AI can be even more ruthless 
 than human players. The only complaint I have about the AI is their constant lack of good driving 
 skills... Ex. They WILL get stuck at chokepoints in tanks &amp; other light and heavy armored vehicles, 
 though it doesnt happen all the time and bots will usually stick to open ground with vehicles, 
 it is a factor that it will eventually happen.
  To basic gameplay.... Just imagine sort of a Call of Duty 2 meets BF2 with an extreme realism mod 
 set in the Ostfront (Eastern Front) of the Second World War. Recharging the bolt after every shot 
 *Manually*, three personnel per tank just to do what one person can do in BF2, 1 Shot-1 Kill truth, 
 having to deploy bipods &amp; rest automatic weapons against surfaces for steady shots &amp; nearly 
 every room of every house is open for buissness for MGs &amp; Snipers (atleast in urban/infantry 
 maps) .
  Graphics &amp; Physics are most deffinintley a thing to brag about here as both are superb! Graphics 
 arent the latest but they proide a great sense of -Raw- enviorments. Snipe a bot or human (if you 
 play online) and watch them tumble untill an object stops them or their corpse lays on a flat surface. 
 The Sound is also superb... Sharp &amp; Deep Gunfire sounds come to life here.
  All This for 25.00 DLable from Steam? Why The Hell Not!!!??? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mattydienhoff
Rating: 8.4
Date: Oct 28, 2006 12:50 am PT
Review:  Red Orchestra: Ostfront 41-45 is an all-multiplayer WW2 tactical shooter set on the Eastern Front 
 of WW2 between 1941 and 1945. In RO, players fight for Axis Nazi Germany) or Allies (Soviet Union) . 
 They fight on foot or in tanks and armored cars, on 13 maps, their locations ranging from the Caucasus 
 to Stalingrad to Berlin, in open farmland and fertile plains, in bombed out urban areas, in cold 
 and inhospitable mountains. Now that doesn't really tell you much more than the blurb on the box 
 does, so I'll get into more depth now. First of all, I must warn you that Red Orchestra is not 
 for the faint hearted, it is a complex game and has a steep learning curve, be prepared to spend 
 hours practicing to become anything even approaching good . Even most seasoned FPS gamers are in 
 for a bit of a shock. I know I was. I first played this game during the free week-long trial a 
 month or two ago. A friend of mine pressured me to try it, so I did. At first I found it frustrating 
 and difficult, despite the fact I was an experienced FPS gamer. But I stuck at it, and as I adjusted 
 I really began to enjoy it. There are also some great advantages brought about by the difficulty, 
 one is the players, I've found them to be, in general, friendly, helpful and courteous, as opposed 
 to the rude, arrogant impatient hotheats that have made games like CS infamous. Because the latter 
 type, if they ever do stumble into RO, quickly get bored and leave. *
  
  The developers said themselves Red Orchestra places you in the most realistic WWII first-person 
 multi-player combat to date on the PC , and they meant it. There is no crosshair, automatic weapons' 
 recoil has you stargazing in seconds if you don't manage it, tanks catch fire and can be disabled 
 with shots to the tracks, bolt-action rifles must be manually bolted after each shot, machine gun 
 barrels overheat and warp if fired fully automatic for too long, grenade blasts take legs off, 
 and when the ammuntion runs out, close combat becomes a mad rush of rifle butts and bayonets. Now 
 all of that may sound frustrating at a glance, and it is - but only at first. Once you learn the 
 nuances and skills you need to survive, the difficulty and complexity of the combat makes it all 
 the more satisfying, but it needs time and effort to get that far, and most of the naysayers are 
 the ones who didn't get that far.
  
  Gameplay:
  Most of the gameplay in RO involves taking and holding objectives in order to control the battlefield. 
 This is not a rush in and capture affair, if your enemy has any clue what they're doing, they will 
 make it hard for you. Taking objectives takes skill, teamwork, and proper use of resources. Reinforcements, 
 for example, are a limited resource. Every time a player dies, and respawns, they use one unit 
 of reinforcements. Reinforcements are finite and are counted on a percentage left basis. When reinforcements 
 run out, if you die, you don't respawn until the next round. This can sometimes turn a match into 
 a battle of attrition. Thankfully, when one team's reinforcements are exhausted, the end is invariably 
 forthcoming in the form of the other team's victory.
  
  As you've probably already heard, Red Orchestra features geninue real-time ballistics, meaning 
 that guns are not perfectly accurate, a sure shot can be fouled up by a myriad of things, and being 
 a good shot is not just about reaction time, as in most other games of this type. In RO you actually 
 need to think, as well as shoot. There are many weapons available, and equipment and skills are 
 organised by a class system. There are many classes, from the standard riflemen and assault troops 
 to the specialists: Squad leaders, machine gunners, engineers (sappers) , anti-tank soldiers, snipers, 
 tank crewmen... Each is issued with the relevant equipment and weaponry, and each has their own 
 unique role to fill. Almost all classes are of a limited number, so you won't see entire servers 
 filled up with SMG gunners or snipers, in most maps the only class not limited is rifleman.
  
  As mentioned there are many weapons modelled, there's the standard weapons, such as the MP40 
 or the PPsH-41, and then there's the obscure weapons, the less common, like the MP41 (MP40 with 
 a wooden stock) , the PPS-43 or the Russian M44 Carbine. Their power, rate of fire, manueverability 
 and accuracy all vary greatly depending on their design, weight and caliber. You can also drop 
 your weapon and take one from a dead soldier, but be careful to check they didn't leave you an 
 empty magazine, as there is no ammo counter.
  
  Vehicles also play a big part. Of the 13 maps in the game many are infantry based, some are tank 
 based, and a few are combined arms, combining the two. **
  
  The ballistics of the small arms carry over into the tanks and their weapons, the power of the 
 tank cannons vary depending on the size, from the puny 20mm cannon of the T60 to the fearsome 122mm 
 howitzer of the IS/2. When firing the cannons you have to compensate for shell drop over long distances, 
 and it is possible for a shell to hit a tank, but bounce off of the armor because it hit at an 
 angle.
  
  There are 3 positions in most tanks, the driver, the gunner/commander, and the hull MG gunner. 
 To be used efficiently a tank needs a driver and a gunner, because it's hard for one to do both 
 jobs effectively. The gunner and the driver must communicate and cooperate, also, as it's impossible 
 to fire the cannon accurately while the tank is moving. The hull MG position is, more or less, 
 redundant in tank\tank combat, but an asset in combined arms warfare, to keep enemy infantry away 
 from the tank.
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics themselves are good. Not great, but not bad either. RO doesn't possess the same kind 
 of bells and whistles other big-name shooters do. It's no F. E. A. R. and it's not cutting edge, but 
 at the same time it doesn't need to be. What RO's graphics do accomplish is gritty detailed atmosphere. 
 The textures and models are amazing, and the animations, while I have heard them criticised, look 
 good for a multiplayer game, especially since they cover such a complex movement system. (Animations 
 are never quite as smooth in multiplayer shooters as they are in singleplayer.)
  
  Sound:
  RO really excels in this department. From the chattering of a PPsH to the terrifying 
 thunder of an artillery strike landing right on you. The rattles and rumbles of armored vehicles, 
 the metallic *clink* of a bayonet being attached to a rifle's muzzle, a Russian soldier spitting 
 vicious insults...
  
  Each different weapon sounds different, and you soon learn to discern from the sounds what weapons 
 are being fired and where. RO will make the most of a surround sound system, and sound is very 
 important to your survival, so turn the music off.
  
  Summary:
  To wrap this very long review up, I just have to say that if you're looking for a mature, sensible 
 shooter, look no further, this is it. True, Red Orchestra requires patience and persistence, it 
 needs an initial investment of effort before you'll get much fun out of it. It has a steep learning 
 curve, but once you've reached the top of the hill, you'll be hard pressed to find any comparable 
 game that doesn't seem simplistic, even juvenile, in comparison.
  
  --- NOTES ---
  
  * - That is my general observation. Of course, gameplay can and does change on the internet, and 
 in the end, it really does depend on what kind of people just happen to be playing on the server 
 you go into. This is just what I've seen and experienced.
  
  ** - Also realise that many servers run custom maps in their rotations, and I've found quality 
 varies greatly among these maps, some are high quality but others make a wreck of the gameplay, 
 if you find yourself stumbling into one in your very first game, don't let it turn you off. Shop 
 around and play on different servers. Game Experience May Change During Online Play is a rule of 
 thumb here, keep it in mind before passing judgement. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UbAdm
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 1, 2006 11:58 pm PT
Review:  [This review is based on the update that was released on September 19th 2006.]
  
  Red Orchestra Ostfront 41-45 is a World War II First Person Shooter that focuses on the conflicts 
 between the German Forces and the Russian Forces between 1941 and 1945. It contains infantry and 
 armoured combat, and the most realistic gameplay i have ever witnessed in a PC game. Motion blur, 
 not knowing how much ammo you have in your magazine, realistic damage and lots more.
  
  The first thing i noticed when i played the game for the first time is that your character doesn't 
 move like a normal First Person Shooter character does. Your arms appear to be independant from 
 your head and the rifle doesn't have that glued on look like a generic First Person Shooter game 
 has. I also noticed that when you aren't sprinting, the jog-type motion your character has is very 
 slow. I started on the Practice mode with the bots set at the default setting (forgot what it's 
 called) . The A. I for the practice mode is challenging, and helps you get to grips with the game 
 very well. The classes that you are presented with are pretty basic. You have your Assault Trooper 
 (specializes in Automatic weapons (MP40, PPsh etc) ) your Machine Gunner (who usually has the big 
 guns (MG42 etc) ) your Semi-Auto Rifleman (they have the G41, G43 etc) the Riflemen (they get the 
 Kar98, Mosin etc) and the Snipers (they get the K98/G43 scoped etc etc) You must think wisely when 
 choosing a class. For example, say if, you were good at rushing an objective, you would probabally 
 want to be Assault Trooper. But if you have a good aim and can keep your head down for long enough 
 you would want to be a rifleman.
  
  My first experience online wasn't the best i ever, but it was good nonetheless. I found that accidental 
 teamkills are quite frequent in this game, which may make some users turn away. But i find it realistic 
 and a simple Sorry can make things better if you are unfortunate enough to take someone on your 
 own team down with a grenade.
  
  The tank combat can get frustrating at times, like the game itself, you need alot of practice and 
 alot of patience for this game to do you well.
  
  The sense of realism is what really blows me away though, motion blur from grenades, getting your 
 weapon shot from your hand and having to sprint back out onto the battlefield to retrieve it, artillery 
 that obliterates almost everything in it's path. Those are some of the elements that made me sit 
 back in my chair for a second and think inside my head ...... Woah. 
  
  The graphics are quite well done aswell, especially when you pass the corpse of a shrapnel-ridden 
 enemy and check out the missing arm or leg. It adds to the atmosphere and emphises on the horror 
 of war.
  
  All-in-all i think this is a You either love it or you hate it situation. If you love realism in 
 your games, you should definetly give it a look into. If you're not, you might get frustrated and 
 regret buying it. Either way, this is a great online game.
  
  Thanks for reading, i think i rambled a bit :P
  
  -Ub. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scooder
Rating: 8.4
Date: Sep 23, 2006 5:44 pm PT
Review:  When i saw this in a magazine add, i didnt pay much attention to it, but once my dad got it i was 
 hooked
  
  THe game is dead set on multiplayer. You will have fun for 5 minutes if ur only doing the practice 
 mode 
  
  Very realistic game, cool physics like ricocheting bullets, dismemberment, ragdoll effects and 
 more.
  
  EXTREMELY fun multiplayer. Very much more technical and tactical than games like call of duty or 
 halo. If u hate bunny hoppers, ull love this game cuz ur stamina will run out quick if u jump alot. 
 Also, the multiplayer community is very mature (85% of the time) and ull have a fun and serious 
 experience.
  
  Theres vehicles like tanks, armored cars, and halftracks. Mastering them will take time though.
 
  
  Alot of weapons, rifles, snipers, machine guns and anti tank. Each specific to the character class.
 
  
  Fun, big maps, including alot of custom ones
  
  Simply put, if u enjoy a serious FPS, ur gonna have alot of fun with Red orchestra. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trogdorehren
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 28, 2006 1:19 pm PT
Review:  Red Orchestra is a team based multiplayer FPS the pits the Russians against the Nazis in world 
 war two. At first glance the game looks alot like the battlefield series where you have to capture 
 and hold objectives. Besides the fact that it's an FPS, thats the only thing that they have in 
 common. This game has a touch of realism that other games just can't reach. When you first jump 
 in to RO you will be surprised on the huge emphasis on realism. Cover is your best friend because 
 the game has one major rule: 1 shot, 1 kill. If you dont have cover in front of you and a buddy 
 watching your back your coming home in a coffin. Let me talk a little more on the realism without 
 the fancy "story talk". Like i said, cover is your best friend. You always need to be looking around 
 for some small trace of the enemie or that stray sharpshooter will drive a bullet through your 
 head. You even have to add a second click to eject your cartridge on the bolt action rifles. Doing 
 things like that can get very anoying but it really adds to the experiance. Another thing this 
 game does well is capture the grittier aspect of world war two. If a grenade goes off under you, 
 you WILL lose limbs. Your face and body you be covered in blood while your stump gushes out your 
 liquid of life. But dont let this discourage the queezy, there is an option to turn off all gore/blood. 
 The graphics in the game are nothing special. It is running off the unreal 2004 engine so you won't 
 see any spectacular explosions. Luckily they will update the engine when Unreal 2007 comes out. 
 Comparatively the sound is great. The effect of artillery going off around you or the shot of a 
 bullet colliding with an enemie's chest is well, as Alex would call it "Delightful" So over all 
 if you are looking for a fun and realistic world war two experiance that really never gets old 
 this game is for you. While its hindered by a steep learning curve and stupid bots it is well worth 
 the 25$. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JTBell
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 17, 2006 11:06 am PT
Review:  For someone who shoots, this game is a welcome relief from the exceedingly unrealistic online games 
 like BF2. You actually have to calculate bullet travel and drop: a welcome challenge that requires 
 a bit of getting used to, unless you have had previous experience with real weapons.
  
  Gameplay. You have to be really careful to not get shot in the game, although once you get the 
 idea that it's not a typical  type of FPS, it's quite easy, 
 as the engagements are at considerably longer ranges than most first person shooters. It requires 
 actual tactics. 
  
  The teamwork element is mostly focused around two main roles: machine gunner and demo guy - the 
 rest are for pure combat purposes. The crouch system, where you can deploy your weapon on sandbags 
 and other obstacles works beautifully.
  
  One great feature of the game is the sound. Depending on the distance, shots will actually sound 
 different, not just quieter or louder. This is a useful tool when judging the distance from a firefight.
 
  
  The graphics are good for the weapons: everything is shown, the bullets, the shells, ect. They 
 look wonderful. The infantry-focused maps look pretty nice, with graphics pretty much on par with 
 BF2. However, the tank maps are not exactly spectacular, mostly just grassy hills with a few bushes 
 and a hedge to note the edge of the map.
  
  The difficulty is hard, but there is room to improve. The spawns are only a few seconds apart, 
 so it isn't 20 seconds of play, 1 second of being killed, and two minutes of waiting, a la Counter-Strike 
 (which is notorious for driving away new players) .
  
  At $25, you just can't go wrong. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: admiral_picard
Rating: 5.2
Date: Aug 7, 2006 3:10 pm PT
Review:  Red Orchestra was originally a modification for Ut2k4 and as that, it was excellent. A totally 
 free mod and well worth the download. However, RO: Ostfront 41-45 is now a Steam game, and costs 
 $25. Now, is it really worth it?
  
  The answer is a resounding maybe. This game has an extremely steep learning curve. If you have 
 no idea how to aim a gun or anything, skip this game. You have no cross-hair, you'll only have 
 iron-sights or just firing from the waist. You also don't have an ammo count, or really a health 
 bar, just a soldiers icon which shows where you've been hit. Many of the guns are difficult to 
 use and require lots of practice, such as the Machine Guns and the Rifles. 
  
  There are tanks in the game, but they're almost never used. They have an innovative system where 
 one person drives the tank, one person operates the turret, and the other person operates a small 
 machine gun on the body of the tank. While this is a great idea on paper, in execution it is very 
 difficult to pull off. Unless you know the people in your tank or you just have people who will 
 listen to what you say, you'll be hard pressed to aim at anything. The tank sights are very difficult 
 to use if the tank is not stopped and often, the driver will either not stop, turn the tank moving 
 the cannon with it, or move into enemy fire and get the entire tank destroyed. The tanks do have 
 a very realistic view system, there is no external camera, but you can stick your head out as a 
 driver to get a 180 degree view or for a 360 degree view as the cannon operator.
  
  The gun-sights are very realistic and make the game feel more authentic but some maps sheer size 
 will make aiming at a distance very hard. The sniper rifles have a very cool feeling to them and 
 even when you're not looking down the sight you can still see that it's showing things in the scope 
 while you carry it. That's another thing, you do not carry your gun just sticking straight forward. 
 It aims very strangely when not using the iron-sight and its impossible to hit anything that's 
 not very close by. Also, when sprinting you cannot aim, shoot, or do anything. You have stamina 
 which is displayed by your solider image being outlined and turning red the more tired you get 
 which occurs by running or jumping.
  
  The guns are all very authentic and have many varieties to choose from. One thing that you you 
 may find annoying is that after firing a non-semi-automatic rifle you have to press the fire button 
 again to pull back the bolt and bring the next round into the barrel. If you forget, it can be 
 the death of you. Almost all the weapons also have a melee attack for those close encounters and 
 some of the rifles have bayonets which can also increase the lethality of the rifle at close range. 
 You can also drop your gun and exchange it for another full-sized weapon if you find a better one, 
 and you can usually pick up an AT Weapon as well as extra magazines for your gun.
  
  If you didn't know, Ostfront is the Eastern Front meaning there's nothing but German vs Russian 
 battles. If you dislike Russians, you'd best just skip this game as well. The Russians have very 
 few varieties of tanks, the most common one is the T34 but you'll hardly see tanks on many servers 
 as they usually don't play the maps with them in it. They claim there is an IS2 and a KV1 on their 
 site, but I never once found one on any server I played on. They have anti-tank weaponry, but because 
 of the aforementioned reason, you'll hardly get to use it, if ever. The grenades are also hard 
 to judge distance on, but can be effective if you use them right.
  
  The graphics in the game are pretty decent, but not the best in the world. It's not an eyesore 
 but don't expect to play it and just be put in shock and awe. There are some minor graphical details 
 missing such as water splash when you walk in it or drive a tank through it but overall it's not 
 bad.
  
  From the sound of an MG-42 spraying lead everywhere, to the accurate sound of a G43 (One of my 
 most favorite guns in the game) the sounds all sound great and are pretty authentic. The Kar98 
 has its real life kick and loudness, the PPSH has its extremely rapid fire sound in which you can 
 barely count the bullets being shot at you, and all the rest of the guns have their own sound and 
 characteristics that require getting used to.
  
  This is a mod someone has put a decent amount of effort into making, so its well worth the free 
 download! Oh, but wait it's not free? Nope, you'll pay $25 to download the game via Steam or in 
 store, but in either case it uses Steam. If the mod were $10 it might warrant recommendation but 
 not for $25.
  
  Otherwise, I'd say this game is great for someone who's extremely good at FPSes or someone who 
 has a great interest in WWII and a lot of patience. You'll die so many times and have no idea from 
 what or why. As I said before, this game has a very sharp learning curve that can turn players 
 off very quickly. Also, having played Forgotten Hope, the free mod for Battlefield 1942 and soon 
 to be for Battlefield 2, I believe it is of better value and quality. It may not have all the most 
 realistic elements, but it does have a great deal of realism and has many many tanks with enjoyable 
 battles as well as boats and airplanes along with decent infantry combat. 
  
  If you really want to almost be in the Eastern front in WWII, buy this game. You'll be satisfied 
 and more than likely surprised with how difficult it is to survive. The player support is also 
 not always very helpful so you may have to learn some things on your own via experimentation. Overall 
 a game that appeals only to a select crowd and is very demanding of anyone who's not in that crowd. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rizzo91
Rating: 5.7
Date: Aug 6, 2006 7:16 pm PT
Review:  Well Red Orchestra is an online WWII game where you can play as either the Germans or the Russians 
 in different maps. What makes this game so special is that it painstaking tries to make everything 
 in the game as realistic as possible. Unfortunately this makes for a very slow paced experience. 
 
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay is kinda fun, but not really. It can be pretty cool when you work with your 
 teammates, but this isn't something that happens very often. You get your weapons based on your 
 class. Automatic guns seem to dominate though. Using a rifle is pretty difficult. You have no reticle 
 to aim and have to bring up the iron sight to get an accurate shot. This would be ok, but the controls 
 are so terrible. You have to press the I button to bring up the sight. This really can slow down 
 being able to react to enemies up close. I also would sometimes bring up the chat menu instead 
 of my sight too. I would accidently press Y or U instead of I. This game is really hard to get 
 into. There's just a lot of different things you can do, but the controls really make it difficult. 
 The "realism" in the game makes for tedious sniper games, and just pretty slow infrantry combat. 
 Also the game can be pretty laggy at times too. I doubt WWII was this unintense. 
  
  You can drive tanks in the game. This is alright. You have to get an entire crew to work one of 
 these things. This can cause a lot of miscommunication, especially in pub servers. 
  
  Graphics: The graphics are pretty unimpressive. The models look pretty bad, and the terrain looks 
 muddy and doesn't have much detail. The models also have pretty ugly running animations. The first 
 person view of the gun models look really nice though, and the reload animations are as realistic 
 looking as you can get. 
  
  Sound: The sounds are good in the game. All the gunfire sounds realistic and the explosions sound 
 pretty good.
  
  Value: Well for me this game has no value to me, as once I played it I never wanted to come back 
 to it again. If you can get into it though, you'll probably end up playing this game for years 
 since there's just so much you can do. 
  
  Overall: Overall this game was not appealing to me. I guess I just prefer more fast paced arcade 
 like shooters. Also the loading times are painfully long, and the server browser is pretty bad 
 with freeze ups and disconnections. If you are a fan of tactical games like this, with a lot of 
 time on your hands, then you probably should check this out, but if you're a casual guy like me 
 who just wants to get into a game quick and have some fun right away playing every now and then, 
 then I can't recommend this to you. I would recommend Day of Defeat instead. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dr_Spielmann
Rating: 7.3
Date: Aug 5, 2006 8:07 pm PT
Review:  This is a good game. This said, let's analyse it a bit: 
  
  First thing: the graphics engine it uses is quite outdated, and that gives a bad impression to 
 newcomers. Those who don't care so much about that, but about gameplay and depth, won't be dissapointed. 
 
  
  This is a "hardcore" game: the amount of keys, the very slow pace and the attention to detail - 
 that encompasses a high level of realism - is big enough (in fact, there is no other game like 
 this) to satisfy mature players with a love for good, serious games. And it feels a void left by 
 Battlefield 1942 and that others, such as Battleground Europe, are not filling. 
  
  Pay attention, young gamers: This is no Day of Defeat or CounterStrike - that are faster and far 
 more "to the point". It's also much slower than the Battlefield series, so although it may be catered 
 to a similar public, it could be slightly difficult to pick up. Keys are somewhat akward in the 
 beginning, but later they begin to make sense and are confortable - for a game with more than 20 
 actions you need to remember - It takes about a day or around 10-15 matches to actually begin to 
 figure out what's going on. To be an expert... well it seems like you are going to need to spend 
 an awful lot of time with it. So if you are into it, you'll really love it. It needs a lot of commitment. 
 
  
  The sound effects are good, as is the interface and hud. Nothing too complicated of flashy, just 
 good old-school indicators. Some of the textures and models stand out, but others show signs of 
 age - but the amount of work and skill shown by the programmers, and what they've done to the UT2004 
 engine is like a miracle. Unfortunately, although some maps are brilliant, deep and inmersive, 
 other are not so enjoyable. The animations are somewhat stiff. UT2004 has to show its age somewhere, 
 and that's the worst of this game: its engine is too old to be sold as a full-fledged (and full-priced) 
 commercial product. It doesn't quite feel like a mod, indeed not at all, but it does feel like 
 something we would like to see updated, and not like something you are going to be willing to inmerse 
 yourself in over the next couple of years. It's like releasing a BF 1942-engined game when things 
 like BF2 are around. Graphics are not the main point for mature gamers, but still, now that we 
 have nice and shiny new graphics cards we might as well see them being used. On a mid-range system 
 you can easily crank up everything to the max and still get really-playable frame rates, which 
 is good, but not when your tank gets stuck on a wooden fence or a piece of tree. And talking about 
 trees, some "forests" require a fair deal of imagination to actually see them as forests...
  
  Overall, a 7 seems like a good score. The game, wan't it for its UT2004 backbone, should really 
 receive an 8, even a high 8, but the price tag is too expensive for such an outdated engine. It's 
 an amazing effort, a mature, realistic simulation, it's just a real shame that its engine shows 
 its cracks, really a shame, as the amount of work put on this game (and on updating UT2004 to such 
 a wonderful level of detail) is huge and it feels really special. It's a tiny jewel... beautiful 
 but a bit old. 
  
  On the other hand, it plays flawlessly even in low and mid-range computers (not surprisingly) . 
 
  
  To end this (long) opinion ;-) , I think most of the people who complain about this game have been 
 put off by its graphics and complex gameplay, and it's realistic and no-nonsense approach. Some 
 of these players haven't had really given the game the time it deserves to be experienced fully. 
 It will not be enjoyable for many multiplayer FPS fans, specially for younger and more impatient 
 ones: It's pace is extremely slow and you have to walk long distances if you don't choose your 
 character class carefully and know what you are doing - what can lead to the impression of having 
 to walk around doing nothing only to be blown to bits by a tank - as some comments here show.
 
  
  For the mature gamer it's a jewel. A real one. It will satisfy hardcore gamers with its unbelievable 
 detail and strategic depth. There are not many games like this, and it does need to be played along 
 with tools such as TeamSpeak and a good, dedicated group of friends / clan members. The fact that 
 tanks can only be useful with 3 crew members working together and communicating effectively shows 
 the intended audience. This is not a lone-wolf FPS to spend a couple of hours with. 
  
  If the developers had put a lower price the game could be an instant hit, I am sure Red Orchestra 
 2 with a better engine will be a major success on the community.
  
  But please, if you don't like it, don't say the game is bad... because it's not. It's brilliant 
 and truly amazing, and over 25's will appreciate it in all its extent. Those kind of gamers are 
 also not so concerned about how old the graphics engine is, so they might feel more inclined to 
 forgive some of its glitches and the overal rigidness of UT2004. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dasc00
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 3, 2006 11:15 am PT
Review:  Alright, this game is very fun, I have to admit that. I love the gameplay, probably the most realistic 
 game i've ever played :) Graphics are a little...... old. They just don't seem right for this game 
 but anyways I sitll like it.
  
  Load times are long..... longer if your doing practice..... around 3-5 minutes.
  Sound is good, 
 cus the guns sound just about right, and the game is totally worth the price. People online are 
 mature and they do help you out a bit, different from what i heard. People told me they hate noobs, 
 but instead told me how to resupply someone and told me where to go..... infact I did very well 
 for my first time online. Maybe it was because i was use to the whole realism thing.... or maybe 
 most of the free weekenders were "WERES MI CROSHARE".
  
  Definately get this is you want a war simulator. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Valkyrie_44
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 17, 2006 11:27 pm PT
Review:  I got this game without first trying the free mod that is available for UT2004. I am disappointed 
 I did not try this title sooner.
  
  The game is very realistic, and tough to master. This game isn't one of those that you can jump 
 into, and you are just on a rampage, no sir! You got to work at this! The game uses many realistic 
 elements, and two major things I have found many gamers have a tough time grasping, Teamwork, and 
 Communicating. 
  
  It takes communication to spot and locate an enemy, it also takes a good amount of both communication, 
 and teamwork to use a few of the heavier vehicles.
  
  Most maps in the game are pretty large, and have numerous avenues of access. So scrimishes can 
 occur anywhere! Weapons, now this will catch the average person off guard, you do not get crosshairs, 
 so hip firing isn't really as effective as looking down the ironsights. 
  
  Visually this game isn't top-notch to today's standards. In fact it doesn't even come close to 
 the amount of pretty that is FEAR, GRAW or Oblivion. What this game is all about is realistic gameplay.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: stonked
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 12, 2006 3:59 am PT
Review:  One shot, one kill. 
  
  Green tracer rounds ricochet off the walls and rubble-strewn streets of Odessa. A Soviet LMG is 
 firing down the street towards our squad, who are falling back to prepared positions after the 
 enemy overran the main square. As our guys make it back, the enemy rifle platoon starts its attack 
 in earnest and they round the corner my comrades were just defending. The MG34 to my left suddenly 
 opens up a steady stream of fire against the Red Horde advancing on our position, allowing more 
 of our men to safety behind the sandbags. I get in on the action with my sniper rifle, but all 
 of the men in the first Soviet squad are already down. I watch through my rifle scope as the MG34 
 traverses the shell hole that was their last refuge and the bullets rip the bodies of the enemy 
 infantrymen to shreds, making sure they are truly gone. There is no chat-style roll on the top 
 of the screen telling us if someone's been killed or not (an option the server admin can disable) 
 - you fire and watch red mist splatter across the shattered cobblestones: it's up to you to decide 
 if you've eliminated the threat and if you can move on to the next target. There are no medics 
 out there to patch up the incapcitated men or zap them back to life with shock paddles, and no 
 guarantees that a man with a leg wound isn't biding his time, waiting for you to move on so he 
 can exact revenge. This is war, not glorified paintball. 
  
  Reinforcements of Schutzen come rushing up, kneel behind a wall of sandbags and let loose on the 
 advancing Soviets who've now appeared on our left flank. They'e trapped us in a pincer movement 
 in the city center. I'm perched high in a tower - one of the Red Army's objectives - guarding one 
 of the approaches to the main German HQ. I've traded my regular Mauser Kar 98 for a scoped version 
 and I'm tracking a Soviet rifleman inching his way forward in a protected doorway. I can only see 
 the muzzle of his rifle as he levels to fire on my buddies. 
  
  There! He shuffles enough to expose his lower left leg and I consider putting a round in it, but 
 decide against, it. I don't want to give away my position for a non fatal shot. Suddenly a submachinegunner 
 pops out from cover and cocks his arm to hurl a grenade towards the sandbags at the base of the 
 tower. Crack! I place one round in his chest and the force of the impact knocks him onto his back. 
 His helmet comes to rest several yards away. Even as the rifle kicks frm the recoil and my eye 
 is off the scope, I can see spurts of crimson coming from his throat 100 yards away. Boom! His 
 live grenade explodes near his head. It's a bloody mess.
  
  As I slide the bolt forward and chamber another round, the hidden rifleman rises to his knees and 
 makes for better cover. But it takes him a second, under all that weight, to break into a run. 
 As he starts, I loose another round, catching him full in the left shoulder. A huge red patch appears 
 on the wall of the building behind him, down near ground level, indicating the trajectory of the 
 bullet that was fired from 75 feet above the ground. The bullet must have passed through his chest 
 cavity and exited somewhere near his kidneys. He slumps down like a rag doll and his weapon falls 
 from his hands. His war is over.
  
  I've just described about 20 seconds of action from an absolutely thrilling game. No medikits for 
 instant health, no body armor allowing you to absorb 3 rounds in the chest, no bunny hopping spam 
 divers, no spawn camping, no overkill of automatic weaponry, no crosshairs allowing you to hit 
 a guy 50 yards away while firing from the hip. Try shooting an SMG while standing up or running; 
 you won't hit much, as the recoil is pretty heavy. Machine gunners are now the effective killers 
 that they should be in a FPS. Riflemen need to be accurate and discriminate with their targets; 
 it takes considerable skill to knock down a sprinting enemy with at 200 paces who's ducking and 
 weaving, with one shot.
  
  The maps are great, the atmosphere's convincing, and the online community is generally well behaved.
 
  
  I've only played so far as infantry, but will get into a tank sooner or later. 
  
  If BF2 has you frustrated because of the inherent exploits and lack of realism, if you're searching 
 for a real challenge, or if you're simply in search of an awesome WW2 land combat "sim", then Red 
 Orchestra is for you. 
  
  My gripes are: the character models could be better; I wish there was fully destructible terrain 
 and buildings (tanks can't smash down walls and shells can't destroy bunkers) ; I don't know why 
 they don't have rifle grenades; BF2's squad system seems to me much simpler for coordinating assaults; 
 sometimes the game engine makes you pop up into view while you're crawling: let's say you're hiding 
 behind a log and trying to slide forward for a better view... well all of a sudden you pop up on 
 top of the log and are in full view of the enemy.
  
  Aside from these, for now, I am thoroughly enjoying it and highly recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RecoilUK
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 4, 2006 1:58 pm PT
Review:  hands up call of duty! theres a new online WW2 shooter, and its much better than.
  first impressions of red orchestra are great visuals, amazing weapons, authentic sounds and yes, 
 the reloads are great.
  
  as soon as you start a match it becomes frantic: reinforcements restrict your team to only having 
 so many respawns, and what weapon is used in what situation will change the outcome of any firefight. 
 enough time spent online will soon turn you into a WW2 veteran, ready to fight almost any enemy.
 
  
  but there are some downsides: while it does have a single player mode, the bots AI is thick as 
 a brick, and a campaign would be much better appriciated for beginners to truly get to grips with 
 the game. also, most maps seem to be one-sided for the russians, but it is still a great game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dwaynej
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 23, 2006 12:42 pm PT
Review:  I'm a gamer who has always enjoyed the simulations more than arcade shooters for the most part. 
 But this game has really surprised me for a first-person shooter. This is no arcade game but a 
 first-person shooter with about as much realism as I've seen in a WWII game. RO is a game where 
 you have to understand trajectories of bullets from small arms to tank rounds, sometimes having 
 to aim a little higher for long distance shots. So just putting the crosshairs on a target doesn't 
 guarantee a kill. On the infantry side your soldier can shoot standing upright but the gun drifts 
 back and forth, crouching your gun is a little more steady, and prone the gun is very steady. Plus 
 if you don't want to expose your entire body around a corner, you can peak around it with your 
 weapon for a partial exposure and fire. Rifles are good for a little distance shooting with iron 
 sights. Machine guns take a bit of practice as their recoil can take some getting used to as you'll 
 struggle to either fire in short bursts and correct or spray an area hoping to hit your target. 
 The machine guns are more effective close up in room to room combat. You'll want to practice throwing 
 grenades accurately as they are a very effective tool, especially for enemy infantry behind walls 
 or sandbags. You can even attach a bayonet for really close encounters. The game also has a gore 
 level setting to either "full" giving you all the bloody realism, or "no" making the combat equally 
 as fun with no blood what so ever.
  
  In the scenarios the squads on both side are setup with realistic scenario organization such as 
 1-commanding officer with sub-machinegun and binoculars (for calling in artillery) , 6-8 riflemen, 
 and 1-Heavy Machine gunner. When your playing online with human players, a microphone or headset 
 is a must because teamwork is a must to play well. You can always go off on a "Rambo" for fun but 
 it will eventually get you killed by the team players on the other side that are advancing in two-by-two 
 formation teams and covering each others backs.
  
  To play well you have to follow the scenario objective for your side to advance your spawning point 
 as you advance to each next objective. Meanwhile the enemy team is doing the opposite usually with 
 their own objectives. There are no medpacs and you will die a lot learning. Another realistic side 
 of RO is that you only take a hit or two before dieing. Also your weapon can be shot out of your 
 hand or you can be wounded such as a leg shot and effect your movement. You can also pick up enemy 
 weapons from dead solders if you like theirs better than yours. You can walk, jog, or sprint until 
 exhausted, although sprinting gets your heart rate and breathing up and makes your weapon shake 
 more when trying to aim accurately until you've rested a bit. When you die, you respawn where ever 
 your spawn point is and head for the fight again. But there are a limited number of reinforcements 
 that can be respawned per game and a time limit to contend with. Run out of either before completing 
 your objectives for your side and you lose the battle. Or the battle can sometimes end indecisively 
 for battles where both sides have achieved about the same amount. Each battle only lasts for about 
 20 minutes so the games are fairly quick.
  
  Tank combat is very challenging as well. You can run a tank yourself but you will have to drive, 
 then jump to the gun, then jump to driver again. The best way is to build a good team of 2-3 members 
 that works well together. One driving, one gunning, one machine gunning. At first I thought driving 
 would be boring but it turns out to be very rewarding and one of the most important positions. 
 It takes a good driver to position that tank behind terrain in a hull down status while trying 
 to call off targets to the gunner who's sight is limited while aiming the main gun. He also has 
 to work to dial in approximate distance to target to adjust the gunsite for trajectory drop. Meahwhile 
 the machine gunner is taking out enemy infantry trying to get close enough to panzerfaust or satchel 
 charge your tank. The struggle during the heat of battle is patiently waiting for the main gun 
 to reload after each shot. Again communication with a headset is a must to work well together. 
 Its hard to shoot accurately when you can't get the driver to drive slowly or stop while you aim, 
 then reposition the tank while reloading.
  
  One thing I really love about the game is the way they have simulated suppression. When shots zing 
 by your head the screen blurs for a couple of seconds making it harder to aim at unclear targets. 
 Grenades make the blur worse and if your close to an artillery barrage slamming home, it can be 
 a real nightmare seeing anything until it passes. So tactics such as throwing grenades and shooting 
 at an enemy position while other buddies rush the position can be very effective.
  
  A limited number of artillery strikes can be called in per game and a good command officer player 
 can really make the battle as he works to clear terrain of enemy tanks and infantry so his boys 
 can advance. Warning, the graphics can be hypnotic, as you catch yourself watching artillery shells 
 explode in very realistic graphic detail blasting dirt, smoke, and the occasional enemy infantry 
 mans body into the air. This is as close as it gets to "Saving Private Ryan" or "Band of Brothers" 
 realistic combat and graphics.
  
  You'll find overtime online that you run into favorite players you work with well and put them 
 in your buddy list making them easy to find and join with again at a later time.
  
  Overall I love the game because of its realistic style, not arcade game, simulation of armored, 
 infantry, and combined arms combat. The battle fields are big enough to allow all sorts of tactical 
 options. Plus human enemy players make the most challenging unpredictable enemies. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kidokoro
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 10, 2006 9:46 pm PT
Review:  Red Orchestra: Ostfront 41-45 started off as a WW2 Total conversion mod for UT2k3 and then moved 
 to UT2k4, the game also won the "Make Something Unreal" mod contest. 
  
  This game is simply beautiful in terms of weapon specs and realism. From the way you reload to 
 firing a tank, Tripwire had definetly put time into this game. 
  Tanks have certain weakspots, (Try taking on a tiger tank with a T-38 russian tank and be amazed 
 on how the shells bounce right off) and even ricochet on the MG rounds firing from the tank turrets, 
 the MG34 and 42 and the DP28
  
  Teamwork is practically a must since you have to cap objectives like in BF2 only the maps are about 
 10x larger, some with tank support. 
  
  For those looking for a realistic shooter where you rely on the skills of your comrade, I highly 
 recommend Red Orchestra: Ostfront 41-45.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: T_man782
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 8, 2006 10:49 pm PT
Review:  I love this game it is very cool and very realistic in some ways but in others it is an arcade 
 game. 
  
  the most realistic part of the game is the tanks. the Russian tanks are pretty hard to kill even 
 if you shoot it from behind. and the turret has the scope and every thing like a tank sim.
  
  but the arcadey parts are for instance the AI even on all the way hard they are the stupidest 
 people i have ever seen im mean you shoot at one he returns fire and walks right past you like 
 nothing ever happened. I hate it when the AI gets in your tank it PO's me so badly i want to through 
 the computer out the window. luckily they have commands so yu can tell them to stop. 
  
  one last thing is, every tank can be killed within two shots, the tiger tank should a least take 
 4-5 shot really it was a tough tank.
  
  but besides all that stuff this game to me is more fun than COD2 or BF 1942. its got great graphics 
 pretty good game play and great multi-player if your just walking around with 25 bucks in your 
 pocket and you've got a decent computer than you should definitely play it you'll be hooked. hope 
 to see you online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maximus_2
Rating: 10
Date: May 29, 2006 12:35 pm PT
Review:  Awesome, cool WWII multiplayer game! If you love Day of Defeat and Call of Duty 2 multiplayer then 
 you are gonna like this 
  I was waiting long time for this game... And then its finaly came out I was pleased with the final 
 result. The maps are vast and different from each other. There is green plains and ruined cities. 
 The gameplay is not that fast as the one in Day of Defeat but it feels more war-like. There is 
 more possibilities for command and tactics. But becouse of maps are so huge this game should be 
 played on the big servers with 32 people or something like that. Then Red Orchestra feels like 
 a real war movie!!:-D
  The graphics are pretty good! Unreal 2.5 Engine does the job well! The vehicles models are stunning! 
 The animation is even better! The soldiers move and die like real people:) The gore level is also 
 huge! You can blow enemy soldier into pieces by the granate or bazooka. There was one time when 
 I shot my enemy with the anti-tank piercing round and it blowed him in two parts AND the guy behind 
 him! lol 
  The sound is great. The voices and sounds of explosion and gunfire diminishe at long distance. 
 When bullets fly past you the screen gets bloored and the sound bounces in your head. 
  The other cool feature is fully 3D interior of the vehicles. You can turn your head inside the 
 tank and see the instruments and stuff inside. You can open the window and look outside, you can 
 open the cannon hatch and look outside scoping the battlegrounds! It all adds more stunning realism 
 to the gameplay:)
  So, if you are a lover of WWII games then this game is definitely made for you:-D Buy it, enjoy 
 it, live it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ViSK88
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 23, 2006 10:03 am PT
Review:  THAT'S THE BEST WWII SIM TO DATE !!! COD2 is nothing in comparison!
  That game make you really feel on a battlefield. ROX
  
  The sound is perfect, and the truely 
 Russian and German languages are amazigly spoken
  The realism is at the hingest levels and you can feel the fear growing in you when you say "dammit, 
 where i dropped the ammo in that grass ? i need to recharge! , recharge quickly! they running on 
 me, im lost!" 
  
  Remember, you can't criticize that game if you dosn't tried the MP! is NOT a SP game, BOTs are 
 just to for a weapons try ...
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DJosephE
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 22, 2006 10:46 am PT
Review:  Now then, if your a realism nut you must try this game. I must admit that the graphics are slightly 
 dated, but still rather good. No matter, the level of realism quite easily draws your attention 
 away from the graphics. Just think about this: whats more important ? Looking for faults in the 
 graphics or trying not to get your brain blasted from your skull by that German sniper !
  
  This game is similar to Battlefield 2, but not quite. You can still capture flags, get into and 
 drive vehicles, play online, and go on a killing spree.
  But I did say it is similar, NOT the same. Because you alone can not capture a flag, it has to 
 be a team effort ( about 5 men or more ) . For a tank to operate correctly it must have 3 men in 
 it, a driver, a commander and a gunner. And for going on a killing spree ... well ... you can but 
 not for long.
  Say if you saw a hand full of Germans and you run over to them with guns blazing you will kill 
 most of them. But you probably didn't see that guy with the light machine gun did you ? So by the 
 time you do see him, you may as well lie down and zip up the body bag your self. One big difference 
 to BF2 is that it isn't so nice. Take for example; if a tank shoots you on BF2 you would fly about 
 100 ft in the air, the same happens on Red Orchestra but that you fly 100 ft in the air in 20 different 
 directions. Also you can now stick a knife on the end of your primitive wooden gun and poke people 
 with it.
  
  The learning curve of this game is very steep. You soon get tired of having to keep respawning. 
 So by 30 minutes into the game your beginning to get the hang of it.
  
  The game is fantastic online, but as normal virtually every server is full of idiots. As I said 
 befor a tank needs 3 men to work correctly. So when you do manage to get into a tank with 2 other 
 men in it you can set off on you tank crusade. But I also said virtually every server is full of 
 idiots, so the tank normally end up getting wrapped around a tree in about 2 minutes. So if possible 
 play online with a group of friends that know how to play properly.
  
  So to end this little review; Red Orchestra is a fine game although the graphics could by updated 
 and if the company can ( but I doubt ) make every online player magically become mean fighting 
 machines, then red Orchestra will be an even better game.
  
  Thanks for reading
  
  Also its my first review I'v ever done. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hurricane04343
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 21, 2006 6:14 am PT
Review:  Red Orchestra originally started out as a mod for the game "Unreal Tournament 2004". Since then 
 it has been a success, and it is now a full game called "Red Orchestra: Ostfront 41-45".
  
  This is a WWII game about the Russians and the Germans on the Eastern front (aka Ostfront) , which 
 took place from 1941-1945, thats how the game got its name.
  
  This is probably one of the best FPS shooters I have ever played. I used to play the CoD series, 
 then got this game, and I was amazed. It has everything CoD has and more. There are very few bugs, 
 great maps, and its very realistic. If this was CoD2, I would have to say it would be the best 
 game, but its not CoD2... its RO!
  
  The developers attention to realism surprised me... it was amazing. The radio in tanks and between 
 team members actually sounds like a radio. You have to press "fire" to empty the cartridge on a 
 rifle after you shoot. The radius of a grenade is huge, just how it was in real life. You have 
 to go in prone to get the most protection. There are not realism and you can't see how many shots 
 you have fired in a clip. If you are shot it distorts you vision, the iron sights sway and they 
 sway even more when your stamina is drained.
  
  The developers did a great job. I have only seen one glitch with a rifle where you can fire it 
 in full auto mode. There MP it not glitchy and there is usually not much lag.
  
  Even though this game has great graphics, your graphics card doesn't have to be that good. I have 
 a really bad graphic card that can barely run CoD series and its maxing out this game!
  
  This game needs you to work as a team. Loners will not survive. If you like run and gun this isn't 
 a good game. This game requires you to use your iron sights. There is no cross hair and its virtually 
 impossible to hit an enemy without them.
  
  Team play. Tanks have to work with infantry. Squad commanders need to support tanks and infantry 
 with artillery. Machine gunners have to provide support for rifle men and the tanks. Light machine 
 gunners need to provide support fire for everyone. Everyone has to protect the light machine gunner. 
 There are many relationships between all the classes.
  
  Many people know how tanks will effect the game play. Will it be tank wars where tanks will attack 
 infantry? No. You will see tanks will be paying attention to enemy armor, not infantry. If you 
 are not in armor tanks would probably leave you alone. I've ran through a tank battle of about 
 4 tanks on each side and I didn't get shot at once by a tank. The infantry needs to take care of 
 these infantry people. Infantry can destroy tanks with AT guns, explosives, and arty.
  
  Well it takes a long time to learn this game... I still haven't learned using the iron sites so 
 much. But after some practice you will get it and be able to pwn!
  
  This game is a great game and I highly recommend buying it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sepheronX
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 19, 2006 10:57 pm PT
Review:  I have owned this game for a while now. Was a huge fan of the Unreal 2k4 verson, now a huge fan 
 of the Steam released verson. This game has everything that I wanted. A more of a realistic feeling 
 to it (may feel like a simulator, but that is fun!) I will keep on playing this game, for it is 
 one amazing game. I love the soviet army!
  
  This games graphics are fairly impressive, the detail with driving is awsome, and the use of the 
 iron site instead of cross-hair, proves you got some talent. Takes concentration, and a lot of 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pendelum5
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 2, 2006 2:18 pm PT
Review:  Red Orchestra: Ostfront 41-45 is very different from any other WWII game out there today. Even 
 its name can tell you that. In almost all the other games you fight as USA against Japan or Germany. 
 This game specializes in the Russia v Germany battles in a multiplayer only, ultra-realistic game.
 
  
  Installation
  Well, first of all, you need to download Valve's Steam game management system at www. steampowered. com 
 . Then you must purchase the game with a credit card and download it from the internet. Sounds 
 complicated, but mostly it is just lengthy. After about 90 minutes on cable it was ready to play
 
  
  Gameplay
  As was said before, this is possibly the most realistic WWII ever. No crosshairs, limited stamina, 
 limited visibility, low health, and lack of ammo count may drive begginers away, so unless you 
 are an experienced FPS gamer, please don't bother with this game.
  You've probably felt suspense while playing an FPS game. You know how it is. You hear gunfire everywhere, 
 your friends are dying around you, and you are running low on health and ammo. You hear a suspicious 
 noise behind you. You spin around, and you see a character darting from cover to cover. You shoot 
 and kill him, only to realise he is your friend. This is what RO accomplishes all too well. Your 
 view over 100 meters is blured, and even on the highest graphical settings, it is extremely hard 
 to make out friend from foe, making you a danger to your own team and susceptible to friendly fire. 
 I can't even mention all the little things that make your time harder due to realism, espcially 
 in the vehicles.
  
  Graphics
  Reccomended NVIDIA GeForce 6600 or ATI x700 unless you want to be playing on crap-worth graphics. 
 All of the weapons are real-to-life. The graphical quality, the recoil effect, even the reloading 
 sequences, they all are the best I have seen, ever. The buildings look like you could reach out 
 and feel the peeling paint.
  
  Summary
  For only $25, this truly deserves to be in any serious FPS fan's game collection. Ultra Realism 
 and awesome multiplayer are the traits that describe this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ziggy56
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 2, 2006 6:07 am PT
Review:  yall know what i am talking about, the mob of 10 year old kids on an army game bunny hopping and 
 running and gunning. well you dont have to worry about that in RO. thats the first thing i notest 
 was that there were no rng'ers, because well you can't. the game is realism so if you are a BattleField 
 fan then you may be unconfortable at first, because the game is designed for you to use you sights, 
 and cooperate with your team mates. 
  
  the second thing is the graphics, a bunch of people are complaining about how sucky the graphics 
 are but... eh... let me tell you a secret lol. the graphics are not that bad. althought there nothing 
 like HalfLife 2 (HL2) you could in some aspects compair them to Call of Duty 2 (COD2) and others.
 
  the one complaint i have is the battle effects were it is suposed to look blurred and stuff. it 
 looks like a funhouse mirror when i play, i think its my cheap ass video card though. but it runs 
 pretty well on my comp. the one thing that stands out is the muzzle flare, i just think thats really 
 cool.
  
  the game is based on realism so you have to work woth your team. there is a built in chat button 
 for your microphone, like COD2, and there is regular text chat as well as quick chat used for commands 
 and stuff. 
  
  the gameplay itsself is a little slower than other games but i kind of like it a little slower, 
 after playing COD2 were there is a million things going on at once it is nice to sit down in a 
 little russian house and prop up your anti-tank gun in the window and just chill.
  
  ok here is the bad stuff. the maps, although they have great maps theres only like seven or eight 
 of them. but it has only been what, a month sence the game came out so i think they will add new 
 maps. the real problem is lag. its not laggy the whole time, just for the first 15 secs you join 
 a server then it runs fine. now i don't know but i think it is my computer. im running a celeron 
 D with 512RAM and Radeon 9250 :p (i had to go for the cheap one) . but i am buying another stick 
 of ram to see if that will speed things up. but if you don't have a very fast computer you will 
 have to do with the wepons left to you because they are limmited so most of the time i have a bolt 
 action, but you can toss your weapons away and grab another in the game so its not a biggy.
  
  anyways hope this reveiw helped and thanks for taking the time to read it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ReuF-San
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 2, 2006 4:14 am PT
Review:  This is a WWII game about the Russians and the Germans on the Eastern front (aka Ostfront) , which 
 took place from 1941-1945, thats how the game got its name. Compared to Half-Life 2, the good-old 
 strategy If it moves, shoot it; if it doesnt move bomb it! does NOT work. No Run & Gun here! 
 This is probably one of the best FPS shooters I have ever played. I used to play the CoD series, 
 then got this game, and I was amazed. It has everything CoD has and more. There are very few bugs, 
 great maps, and its very realistic. If this was CoD2, I would have to say it would be the best 
 game, but its not CoD2... its RO!
  
  In mulitplayer, the game is best: This game needs you to work as a team. Loners will not survive. 
 If you like run and gun this isn't a good game. This game requires you to use your iron sights. 
 There is no cross hair and its virtually impossible to hit an enemy without them. Squad commanders 
 need to support tanks and infantry with artillery. Machine gunners have to provide support for 
 rifle men and the tanks. Light machine gunners need to provide support fire for everyone. Everyone 
 has to protect the light machine gunner. There are many relationships between all the classes, 
 so team play is essential!
  
  Well it takes a long time to learn this game, but its great and I recommend it to anyone who loves 
 FPS!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigbighat
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 25, 2006 1:11 pm PT
Review:  Red orchestra is an FPS shooter with tactical combat inside of it. The game beats battlefields1942 
 storyline, but the game requires to many things like purchasing steam updating the game and steam, 
 turning off your firewall. It takes to slow to load on levels, and my system is pretty good (pentium 
 4, 2.7ghs,1gb ram, nividia geforce 6200 256 mb ,direct x 9.0 sound, comcast highspeed internet, windows 
 XP pro) and the fact that the graphics are hard to get used to because they are a little smudgy, 
 but afterword they are fine. Other than that it is a fun game, and the game is kind of hard at 
 first when you play for a while, but it gets easier. I feel bad because This game does have a lot 
 to offer. That is my review of Red Orchestra: ostfront 41-45. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HKArslan
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 23, 2006 1:55 pm PT
Review:  Like I said in the Review Deck, you likely won't find anything that blends fun and realism so successfully 
 like Red Orchestra: Ostfront 41-45. At that though, it has certain problems, and it's understandable, 
 being that it's a budget title. Read further to find out why it is I think this.
  
  ~GAMEPLAY and STORYLINE
  
  You're a German rifleman, cooped up in an APC with 8 other men including 
 the gunner and excepting the driver. Your fellow soldiers are picking at their uniforms, and their 
 noses -- they're praying, they're puking. Even the animations when you're doing something so simple 
 as being transported from here to there simulates realism. 
  
  So, you bust out of the APC. All of your teammates are charging the Russian occupied farmhouse. 
 Being that you only just got out of the carrier, you have plenty of stamina. Only just then, your 
 attention is called to the Russian machine gunner hanging out of a window -- and the call is not 
 a favorable one. You've been hit in your Right Shin, and your stamina is immediately drained from 
 the blow to your leg. 
  
  You drop to a knee, and open fire on the window with your MP-40 SMG. As your clip is approaching 
 emptiness, and you've unloaded on just about everything BUT the machine gunner, you hit him right 
 in the face. Your buddies have managed to take out the rest of the farmhouse. Now a German machine 
 gunner is setting up in that window. 
  
  This is one of millions of exciting scenarios you're bound to experience in Red Orchestra. Unless 
 of course one of the problems with the gameplay gets in your way.
  
  For example, even after you think you've mastered the aim with guns all around, you'll have some 
 really WTF moments in the game. You can be aiming your gun right at the enemy, hell, you can fire 
 at him 20 times with a bolt-action rifles with your gun right on the enemy, and for some reason, 
 there's not a 100% chance you'll hit. At least, this has always happened to me from far away. Maybe 
 I'm just a n00b, but this can seriously anger me. Also, melee attacks seem to be worthless unless 
 your enemy is out of ammunition. Even then, they seem to be able to just dance around your bayonet/butt 
 of your gun strikes.
  
  As for storyline? Hey, it's World War II. There's nothing about our world more dramatic and interesting 
 than World War II.
  
  9/10
  
  ~GRAPHICS and PHYSICS
  
  The graphics are crisp, and the physics aren't ridiculous like Source engine games'. But then again, 
 considering that the engine this game WAS built on is quite old, this means not all of the objects 
 in the game are movable. For example, if you toss a grenade on a cluttered table top, the bottles 
 and cigarette butts and documents won't go flying around, and the table won't explode into tiny 
 splinters of wood. While this doesn't detract from the experience much, it does detract from the 
 pursuit of realism. 
  
  Aside from that, some of the textures on static objects seem quite dull, even when set to the highest 
 possible configuration, of which I play at. Again, not a big deal, but this also detracts from 
 this category's score just a little bit.
  
  8/10
  
  ~SOUND
  
  The sound is wonderful. When you hear a tank coming, you know you're in for a fight, or you're 
 in for a long run. The same goes for the earthshaking, ear ringingly loud artillery. When you hear 
 the chatter of an SMG or a MG, you know to duck down and take cover somewhere. It all sounds so 
 natural -- so ambient. I love Red Orchestra's sound, and I don't think it falls short anywhere 
 in this department.
  
  10/10
  
  ~VALUE
  
  Value? Are you kidding me? Tons of maps, tons of weapons, tons of skins, tons -- or at least -- 
 a few vehicles on and more on it's way with the upcoming content patch. 
  
  Realistic action fun that never ends priced at $24.95. $24.95!!
  
  10/10
  
  ~OVERALL
 
  ~9.1 - SUPERB 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HeadHunter86
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 19, 2006 11:26 am PT
Review:  Red Orchestra came on to the market with very little publicity, yet was held to high expectations. 
 It soon won me over with it's very intense, team oriented, and unbelievably immersive battles. 
 The sites and sounds of war have never been portrayed better in any other game on any other console 
 than that of Red Orchestra. The only negative comment I can say is that the majority of maps were 
 obviously made for armor and not for infantry.... but this further adds to the realism and immersive 
 feelings the game gives the player.
  
  For $24.95 you will not find a better game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamergeek
Rating: 8.2
Date: Apr 15, 2006 2:48 am PT
Review:  You can try compare Red Orchestra to other WW2 shooters out there like cod2 and dod: s but when 
 it comes down to it Red Orchestra is a completely different experience in its self.
  
  Gameplay: Let me just start buy saying this game is Buy far the most authentic WW2 shooter out 
 there. All the guns look and act how they should and the little details are great. But the biggest 
 probleme i had with this game is the size of the maps. Youll often find yourself running for minutes 
 trying to find a enemy because the maps are so large. 32 players is just not enough for some of 
 the maps. There really is no strategic element in this game unless your playing with a friend. 
 Not enough people play this game right now but for the most part it does not seem to lag at all. 
 The best part of Red Orchestra is getting into a fire fight with about 4 teamates at your side 
 and a granade gets chucked at you and you run and watch you team get owned. Yes the ragdoll is 
 very realalistic your not ganna shoot someone and watch him fly 50ft up in the air. Although its 
 hard to get into it at first if yuo give the game some time you can find a very enjoyable exsperiance.
 
  
  Graphics: The texsters and charector models are really plain but the maps set a gritty dark atmosphere 
 that gets you really immersed in the game. All your equiptment to guns and granades look very good.
 
  
  Sound: All the exsplosions sound terrific and oyu can here just about every bullet being fired 
 on the battlefield.
  
  Value: Great online exsperiancec but the community is lacking in size at the moment.
  
  Tilt: 
 Alougth Red Orchestra lakes in graphical presentation and gameplay the authenticity of this game 
 is amazing.
  
  Final Thoughts: Red Orchestra is unlike any shooter out there if you can see past minor controll 
 issues and some gameplay flause you will find a engoyable exsperiance. NOTE if yuo dont have dod: s 
 buy it befor you buy this game jsut because dod is a lot more fun 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beowulf11
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 13, 2006 7:31 am PT
Review:  The first time you play it might be a little annoying to have to reload your gun or end up unable 
 to run anymore because your leg is shot but the fact that it accounts for these things is amazing. 
 Tank shell penetrate to do damaged based on really stats so if you are a smaller tank you are unlikely 
 to hurt a larger panther. You will see the shells get deflected by the outrageously thick armor. 
 To make this game more realistic, I wish you could interact with the environment more, such as 
 digging a hole for cover and destroying buildings.
  This game deserves much higher then gamespot ranked it. I usually am pretty satisfied with their 
 ratings but this time they are way off.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jmrwacko
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 12, 2006 4:07 pm PT
Review:  Red Orchestra: Ostfront, which started originally as a mod for Unreal Tournament 2003 and later 
 won the "Make something unreal" competition for UT2k4, has gone retail, and is far more polished 
 and less buggy than Combined Arms, its free counterpart. This game's strengths lie in its remarkable 
 immersion, due to its great graphics, booming gunfire and explosions, and lack of conventional 
 fps tricks such as a health bar and crosshairs.
  
  Many people shove Red Orchestra aside on first glance as sacrificing fun for realism, when in fact, 
 RO uses realism (mostly) to its advantage to produce awesome tactical gameplay and situations previously 
 seen only in singleplayer games like Call of Duty. Since most weapons kill your character in one 
 hit or at least leave him crippled in the open, Red Orchestra encourages the use of flanking, cover, 
 and teamwork; while its strict falling damage and stamina system eliminate annoying problems such 
 as bunny hopping and terrain exploiting. Since you have to aim down the sight of your weapon or 
 shoot from your hip with no real indication of where the bullets will land, combat in the game 
 feels like you are actually there, and you get a true sense of accomplishment for every kill you 
 make. However, the game promotes team cooperation above individual scores, as kill/death ratio 
 is not counted on the main scoreboard and capturing objectives gives an overkill amount of points.
 
  
  People say that RO's graphics are outdated and miserable... I personally have trouble even seeing 
 where they are coming from with these statements. The textures are wonderfully done, the amount 
 of vegetation and buildings in many of the maps is amazing for the aging unreal 2.5 engine, the 
 ragdoll realistically reacts to normal kills and explosive ones, and theres even a great system 
 of dismemberment for those lucky moments an artillery shell lands on your head. The sound is even 
 better than the graphics. Theres no ambient shots or explosions in this game like in other WW2 
 shooters, because you can hear every shot on the map. From far away, the shots of artillery and 
 rifles sound like a low rumble, and as you get closer, these sounds become more and more distinguishable 
 as they would in real life. The guns all sound very realistic and lethal, as do their handling 
 and effectiveness.
  
  There are some problems with Red Orchestra, which is understandable, as the game is a budget title. 
 The clipping and hitboxes in the game are a bit off, which makes it dangerous to throw a grenade 
 into a window or over a wall and can lead to more than the occassional suicide. There are some 
 glitches with the falling damage system, as sometimes you will die from a 2 foot fall for no reason 
 at all. The bots are as bad as those in the battlefield series, as they will run at you from the 
 open and try to bunny hop and shoot you with an smg from 100 feet away as they did in unreal tournament 
 2k4.
  
  However, despite some drawbacks, Red Orchestra is an underappreciated and highly addictive WW2 
 shooter that will entertain, immerse, and frustrate you for many gaming sessions. Just allow it 
 to grow on you, as the learning curve is very sharp for a shooter and you will probably die in 
 particularly stupid ways for the first few rounds you play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: god2emperor
Rating: 8.2
Date: Apr 10, 2006 10:50 am PT
Review:  this is a great game, i played it many time. the version i had was a M O D for UT 2k4, and they 
 say the two are particly the same. it has great graphics, one of the few games that the player 
 can actaully play as the NAzis.
  Weapons: lots and lots of weapons, all well designed and fun, great modles. but there is a major 
 flaw. suppose there is a light machine for the allies, the tommy gun, and the one for the germans, 
 the mp40, acts almost exactly the same as the tommy gun. but this is true for many games like battlefield.
 
  AI: i was very impressed with the AI of the game they know when to take cover and throw a granade, 
 oh wait that AI is from the unreal engine. the version that you buy in the store.
  graphic: oh god its fantastic, as good as CALL OF DUTY 2.
  the game also offers a lot of vehicles, 
 like tanks and jeep, they are fun but not as easy to use as BF2.
  Buy/Rent: neither, get UT 2004, and download the MOD, strike two birds with one stone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrgrunge
Rating: 7.8
Date: Apr 9, 2006 10:25 am PT
Review:  Fans of the Red Orchestra mod for UT2004 or the Call of Duty series, will no doubt feel right at 
 home. 
  
  What you need to know:
  
  All weapons are based on iron sight aiming. This means that your average Counter-Strike, Day of 
 Defeat, or Battlefield player will be unconfortable at first. You're not running around, spraying 
 your MG fire in hopes that you might hit freshly respawned troops.
  
  The game requires teamwork. This is both a plus and minus. Tanks require two people, for example. 
 Your typical rambo styled player will find it difficult to play the game unless their objectives 
 are more focussed to that of the team's needs.
  
  Game play is a bit slower then most WWII shooters out there. While it's not too slow as to cause 
 a player to go insane, the speed of the game allows that much more time in order to coordinate 
 ( if need be) with other teammates. If you're used to Call of Duty's S&D or even Counter-Strike's 
 gameplay, then the adjustment won't be too far off. 
  
  One shot can kill you. This is why it is important to throw away old habbits of running back and 
 forth in order to score. While it can be frustrating, much like America's Army, there's still plenty 
 to work with. 
  
  If you're using a high-end gaming system and you're used to the eye candy which Half-Life 2 has 
 to offer, then you might be disapointed. While graphics should never truely judge a game's playability 
 or fun factor, they might scare away the high-end gamer. 
  
  One quick note: The one aspect which I love relates to tanks and the required teammate. While Battlefield 
 and Call of Duty: United Offense may have created a system which allows a single person to control 
 said vehicles, the added requirement (s) seem to increase immersion and of course strategy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Paul1971
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 9, 2006 8:38 am PT
Review:  This game is superb. The realism may not appeal to all but if you have a brain you will love it. 
 I think this is far better than BF2 in many ways. The word more mature springs to mind. If you 
 love slaughter on a grand scale then this is for you. 
  
  The maps are great and the graphics are too. I have heard people slag the graphics off and my advise 
 to them is GET A BIGGER GPU. The game runs at the highest level on my machine and it looks great. 
 Can't wait for some more maps to appear.
  
  In all if you get tired of BF2 then give this a try. It's realism is it's greatest asset. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BananaJuice
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 7, 2006 3:56 pm PT
Review:  people are tools, this is a great game. There is nothing wrong with it. The maps have objectives 
 and you need to work as a team to win. The animation is great and the sounds are just awasome. 
 
  
  This is not a run and gun game. Just wait in the spawn for a second until a few people spawn, use 
 the built in voip and come up w/ a plan to attack or defend one of the objectives.
  
  The reload is easy, just aim, shoot, reload, aim again and shoot, 
  
  the tank maps are huge 
 and just as fun as the other maps. Get a mic and use it to talk, trust me its fun to command a 
 tank or drive one with a commander
  
  IF you turn up the graphics, then this game looks just as good as current games, if not better 
 IMO.
  
  Also, some nitwit sad something about not knowing what he/she is shooting at. well if you look 
 at the map and know that your team has the eastern flags/objectives, then its safe to say the emeny 
 will be coming from the west. WHY DO PEOPLE NEED THERE GAMES SPOON FEED
  
  this game is only 24 bucks and its worth more. Give it a try
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: HordakPeters
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 6, 2006 9:10 am PT
Review:  I've been a member of this board for more years than I can remember, and Red Orchestra is the first 
 game I've felt inclined to review. That little fact alone should speak volumes. I don't really 
 have much to add to what others have said, but this is definitely one of those games where if you 
 like the premise of 'much more realism than you're used to' then this is probably a game that you'll 
 love.
  
  Like others have said, it takes a while to get into. The game mechanics are somewhat different, 
 the maps can seem overwhelming, and the more experienced players can seem TOO good. But if there's 
 ever a game that's FAIR then this is it. It's a fairness in that it makes the player directly responsible 
 for how he does in the game... there's no computer generated bullet spread to give the beginners 
 a chance against the pros in this game. If you're good, you're good, period.
  
  Anyway, Red Orchestra gave me the full-on, gritty, "great sense of urgency"-feeling that Day of 
 Defeat gave me when I first started playing that 4 years ago. While that game has become more arcade-oriented 
 in it's Source form, Red Orchestra is a damn fine replacement. 
  
  Having these two games serves two different purposes: DoD: S for simple fun, Red Orchestra for the 
 "OH MY GOD I'M GOING TO DIE"-kind of fun.
  
  If you like a sense of urgency in your games, maybe with a dash of the feeling that you're really 
 going to die, then this is the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grarap
Rating: 5.2
Date: Apr 16, 2006 10:02 am PT
Review:  I'll keep this short and sweet. I've been playing Red Orchestra since v2.0 of the UT mod. Towards 
 v3.2, it seemed as if the developers were sacraficing fun to realism JUST for the sake of it. Of 
 course, gamers want games, not simulations. I stopped playing and moved onto the king of arcade 
 shooter, CSS.
  
  When the RO trailer came out on steam, I immediately had a burst of nostalgia and bought the game 
 without much though. I already owned COD2, DOD: S but apparently RO offered a different experience. 
 Too right it did.
  
  First thing I noticed were poor graphics. I was expecting something better than UT2004, consdering 
 that the game was built on the Unreal Engine 2.5. Urban textures looked boring and buildings were 
 poorly moulded. Rural maps were flat and relatively featureless, with variety only to be found 
 in small hamlets that people generally stayed away from and corn fields. For heavens sake, trees 
 marking map boundries were just pictures of foliage on invisible walls. Infantry combat was relatively 
 fun, but many classes are overpowered, as in real life. That means that if you're unlucky enough 
 to have a slow connection or join a game in mid-play, you're buggered due to limited positions 
 for each class. If a sniper finds a good hidey hole somewhere its near impossible to stop him. 
 
  
  Artillery was always fun, but to be honest it's mostly found on tank maps nowerdays. That means 
 that by the time the shells start dropping, the single tank that you were aiming for (as you gave 
 up driving a tank to be a commander) has driven away. Argh, fustrating.
  
  Tanks themselves are awful in public servers, as communications between gunner and driver nearly 
 always break down. 99% of the time I grab a vehicle and drive it myself. However, that doesn't 
 have the same fun factor as a fully armed and dangerous killing machine.
  
  To conclude, gameplay is nice. Controls are responsive and complete. Graphics are average at best, 
 but a dream for those with a mid-spec PC. Sound is excellent, although repetative. Value is not 
 there; due to the democratic map voting system the same areas are played over and over again. I 
 just stoped playing after 12 or so hours from boredom.
  
  Reviewers tilt. I wanted to like this game, but I just can't. Arcade-ish shooters are where it's 
 all that. If you want a semi-realistic game then go for DoD. Red Orchestra is an experience that 
 just wasn't worket out properly by the developers. Besides, from my comments above you may think 
 that this game is possible worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Dukes
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 3, 2006 12:47 pm PT
Review:  Hey, 1st of all this game is DEFINETLY NOT FOR EVERYBODY! This is without a doubt the most realistic 
 game (FPS wise) ive ever played next to Operation Flashpoint. And my opinion matters considering 
 ive been in the army 3 years. Its a slower paced (at times) game... if you sprint and dive to return 
 fire at someone, your going to have a hell of a time hitting them, cause your chearacter is going 
 to be struggling to catch his breath. Very good job w/ this, the way the machine guns in the game 
 have a tracer 1 every 4 rounds is great... and this is 1st time ever in any game ever ive seen them 
 treat this right... the way the rounds in this game richet of mounds of dirt , walls is spectacular... looks 
 like it does in real life, plus the machine gun barrals have to be changed after a while of firing.... great 
 features!!!! this game is definitly a team based game... if your playing w/ a bunch of **** rambo's 
 online expect to loose. I think if your a realism buff then this a game worth checking out... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: onlineterrorism
Rating: 2
Date: Apr 1, 2006 8:05 pm PT
Review:  Ok lets start out with the graphics. The graphics seem very outdated and unappealing. Water looks 
 like sand, there are no shadows except for characters, textures are pixelated even at the highest 
 resolution, characters look similar to battlefield 1942's characters, lack of detail, and most 
 of all everything looks phony. Now for the gameplay. Gameplay is realistic but not at its best. 
 It is very boring especially when there are only 15 players per side (limit) . The vehicles look 
 mediocre. Enviroment looks ridiculously plain. This game is overrated. Waste of money on my part. 
 I am definitely returning this back. If you want to play a fun game, buy Day of Defeat: Source 
 instead. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: apocmessiah
Rating: 1.9
Date: May 1, 2006 4:18 am PT
Review:  This game has been brave in attempting a different slant on the WW2 FPS war game by trying to add 
 realism. However, the outcome falls short of the mark by a long way.
  
  Firstly the good. The open landscapes and general atmosphere really do fit the realism they have 
 tried to achieve for which they should have great credit for, but this is where the achievements 
 ends.
  
  The problems with it far out way the good which are as follows: 
  
  1) Controls. The controls are far to over-engineered. When it comes to firing. You have to press 
 a button to aim, a button to fire, a button to eject the empty cartridge, and a button to reload 
 ( there is no auto reload) . Ok I am all for realism but this is just laborious and it is completely 
 unnessecary. There are way to many buttons here and although some people may appreciate this, the 
 casual gamer will be most definately deterred by this. 
  
  2) Map size. Maps are HUGE, and you character runs slow. On a large scale sever with 40+ players 
 on it, these maps would be excellent. Unfortunately servers tend to max out at 32 players, not 
 enough to make these maps enjoyable. Also the online communtiy at the moment does not seem to have 
 a big enough player base to support larger scale servers. This is a fundamental flaw to the game, 
 realistic battles would have more than 15 soldiers on each side fighting, and while the maps are 
 realistic in size, the player population is not. Ultimately this leads to a lonely experience, 
 and normally you would spend most of the time running great distances to get to the action or team 
 mates, which means there is only a very small amount of time you spend on this game in actual combat.
 
  
  3) Identifying players. This problem does not apply to those people with massive monitors and high 
 end pcs/graphics cards. But for many of those people (like me) who has a mid range system, identifying 
 who is friend or foe is a difficult task. A lot of this game requires you to shoot at enemies way 
 into the distance, for "realism". A lot of the time I have found that this means shooting at someone 
 i cant see but for the flash of their rifle. The uniforms at distance are also very difficult to 
 tell apart. You may thinkok, friendly fire it's all part of the realism, i just gotta put up 
 with and say sorry if i make a mistake" WRONG!. There are very few servers to play on to begin 
 with without a large number of them employing a kicking script if you do accedently shoot one of 
 you team mates. I understand if it's employed to stop TK abuse, but every server I've been on that 
 uses this will kick you the first time you shoot a team mate. This leads to a very frustrating 
 experience, and also makes it much harder to learn the game as you are never on a server long enough 
 to identify where you are going wrong.
  
  4) Bad animations. This is another factor that detracts from the realsim. There doesnt seem to 
 be any blood on dead people!!. Whats this about, and when you fire at a tank with an AT gun, there 
 is no puff of smoke or explosion to show if you've hit it or not!. Whats with that, the whole reason 
 people play these games is to see yourself shooting the face off someone else, but it doesnt happen.
 
  
  5) Value. The game is far too expensive for what it offers. There is little replay-ability to it 
 for the casual gamer. It has been wholely produced for hardcore fans of the genre who have a lot 
 of time on their hands and up-to-date pcs with mics. For everyone else, this game will appear as 
 elitist drivel and a far cry from the enjoyable experience that the price tag should be offering. 
 The only reason I have played it so much is to try and like it, and get rid of that uneasy feeling 
 that steam have conned me out of my money for this inferior title. After this I will never trust 
 anything made available to buy from steam again.
  
  To conclude, this game is very niche market, and like marmite some of you will love it like a pet, 
 while the vast majority will despise it and wish you had spent you're money more wisely. I have 
 tried playing as much as possible to try and enjoy this game but the more I play the more i dislike 
 it and the more i feel i've been robbed by Steam.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: FrontLineForce
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 31, 2006 2:06 pm PT
Review:  For you people out there, who love the odd shooter, or the odd WW2 shooter. this game has a good 
 concentrated taste for the people interested in the Russin Front during this reign of terror! Red 
 Orchestra, like the mod, is just another one of those typical games... that dont quite put alot 
 of effort in. You can choose between the German (Axis) Forces and the Russian Red Army (Allies) . 
 Each team has a multiple choice of weapon classes depending on the level. From the Reichstad to 
 Stallingrad you fight epic battles. "You fight epic battles" through a slow and dodgy frame rate. 
 The games main menu is fine.. until you leave the game for a minute or 2.. and it freezes. when it 
 doesnt freeze.. you still have to go through the slow and unstable team select and weapon select 
 menu's. Even when you choose practice mode or multiplayer you still have to go through the bother 
 of your machine.. crawling and choking on all the materials /sounds etc. when you do start off.. the 
 game still loads.. still loads!!! while running around blasting guns which have to much recoil.. (might 
 i add) and it still runs sluggish.. and skips. The graphics are very good.. despite the gameplay 
 and slowness.. it has great effects during the gameplay!. The sounds... not a big fan. They sound 
 as if they are running out of batteries or something. very soft. The controls arent as satisfacrtory.. for 
 example Counter Strike Source.. or Call Of Duty. Most game makers make it quite easy for the gamer 
 or player to move around. For example.. the Tank controls... they really have to be updated and need 
 a bit of the oldkick up the you know what". Overall this game isnt the best.. if you really want 
 to play a good FPS of WW2.. Call of Duty 2.. is a great game. Red Orchestra: Osfront 41-45 needs 
 alot of polishing up. it needs a few updates and not to be rushed. My attitude is towards game 
 makers is "It will be Out when its ready" and to be honest, Thats the sort of attitude you need 
 yo have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: girufool
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 29, 2006 10:39 pm PT
Review:  Well the game is "okay" . Well here you go.
  
  
  The good:
  
  Tanks, lots of weapons. Online is great. Very nice graphics.
  and weapons sounds. very realistic. 
 Ragdoll is amazing. RUSSIANS SPEAK RUSSIAN!!!! can be very dramatic. :b
  
  The bad:
  
  The gameplay can be some what too realistic. Can be very boring sometimes.
  Bugs and glitches 
 can be very annoying. Its not really worth playing after a while. Controls are very hard and complicated. 
 -_-
  
  Overall: RO is a great game but can be very hard and boring. Oh yeah also forgot if you play BF2 
 as a commander alot this game has youre name written all over it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hockeyboy04343
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 28, 2006 6:51 pm PT
Review:  Red Orchestra originally started out as a mod for the game "Unreal Tournament 2004". Since then 
 it has been a success, and it is now a full game called "Red Orchestra: Ostfront 41-45". 
  
  This is a WWII game about the Russians and the Germans on the Eastern front (aka Ostfront) , 
 which took place from 1941-1945, thats how the game got its name.
  
  This is probably one of the best FPS shooters I have ever played. I used to play the CoD series, 
 then got this game, and I was amazed. It has everything CoD has and more. There are very few bugs, 
 great maps, and its very realistic. If this was CoD2, I would have to say it would be the best 
 game, but its not CoD2... its RO!
  
  The developers attention to realism surprised me... it was amazing. The radio in tanks and between 
 team members actually sounds like a radio. You have to press "fire" to empty the cartridge on a 
 rifle after you shoot. The radius of a grenade is huge, just how it was in real life. You have 
 to go in prone to get the most protection. There are not realism and you can't see how many shots 
 you have fired in a clip. If you are shot it distorts you vision, the iron sights sway and they 
 sway even more when your stamina is drained.
  
  The developers did a great job. I have only seen one glitch with a rifle where you can fire it 
 in full auto mode. There MP it not glitchy and there is usually not much lag. 
  
  Even though this game has great graphics, your graphics card doesn't have to be that good. I have 
 a really bad graphic card that can barely run CoD series and its maxing out this game!
  
  This game needs you to work as a team. Loners will not survive. If you like run and gun this isn't 
 a good game. This game requires you to use your iron sights. There is no cross hair and its virtually 
 impossible to hit an enemy without them. 
  
  Team play. Tanks have to work with infantry. Squad commanders need to support tanks and infantry 
 with artillery. Machine gunners have to provide support for rifle men and the tanks. Light machine 
 gunners need to provide support fire for everyone. Everyone has to protect the light machine gunner. 
 There are many relationships between all the classes.
  
  Many people know how tanks will effect the game play. Will it be tank wars where tanks will attack 
 infantry? No. You will see tanks will be paying attention to enemy armor, not infantry. If you 
 are not in armor tanks would probably leave you alone. I've ran through a tank battle of about 
 4 tanks on each side and I didn't get shot at once by a tank. The infantry needs to take care of 
 these infantry people. Infantry can destroy tanks with AT guns, explosives, and arty. 
  
  Well it takes a long time to learn this game... I still haven't learned using the iron sites so 
 much. But after some practice you will get it and be able to pwn!
  
  This game is a great game and I highly recommend buying it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thesillycheez
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 27, 2006 8:13 am PT
Review:  Red Orchestra: Ost Front 41-45 is the retail version of the highly acclaimed and successful Unreal 
 Tournament modification. The grand prize winners of the Make Something Unreal Contest have put 
 their Unreal Engine expertise to work and the results are just that: unreal. The result is a great 
 mixture of intense action, historical accuracy, and military realism. This ain't your daddy's WWII 
 shooter. It's a new breed and hopefully will spark a trend to continue this style of game.
  
  The subtitle "Ost Front" refers to the Eastern Front of WWII, where the Soviets and the Germans 
 battled for four years, ending in literally millions of casualties. It's kind of a new area for 
 WWII shooters as only the Call of Duty series has previously ventured there. As horrible as the 
 conflict was, it makes for some amazing FPS action.
  
  First off, gameplay. No other game has come this close to putting you in the middle of the action. 
 It is never wise to simply throw your life away in this game. There is a "Reinforcement" system 
 that controls how many respawns each team gets per round. The reinforcements start at 100% and 
 slowly work their way down during the battle. It is not uncommon for one or both sides to completely 
 run out of reinforcements in a 20 minute battle.
  
  This reinforcement system compliments the game's ballistics; each soldier can only take 1 or 2 
 rounds before dying, depending on the location of the wound. For the higher powered rifles, one 
 shot is generally enough to down a foe, however some of the submachine guns can pump a soldier 
 with 3 or 4 rounds before killing him, due to their low power and inaccuracy.
  
  The game has a ton of key functions. There are the standard move, fire, alternate fire (prime grenade 
 or melee attack) , crouch, jump, prone, and lean keys, but there are also some others that newcomers 
 to RO may find difficult to adjust to. The game has no on-screen cross-hairs so if you want an 
 accurate shot, you have to use your iron sights, which let you look down the barrel of your weapon 
 to aim. You can attach bayonets to certain weapons, deploy your machine guns on level surfaces 
 for a steadier aim (handily bound to the same key) , open a tactical map, dive to prone, and bind 
 every single quick voice command to any button you wish. When you fire a bolt-action rifle, you 
 must press fire again to bolt another round into the chamber. This gives you an advantage at close 
 range so you can attempt to melee your opponent instead of being forced to reload and leave yourself 
 defenseless. It seems like a lot, and it is, but it doesn't take long to get accustomed.
  
  There's a neat little feature that I haven't seen in any other game. When you iron sight, if you 
 are positioned next to a wall, or in front of a sandbag or window sill, you "rest" your weapon 
 on that surface for a steadier aim. It's quite effective and nice little addition.
  
  Each side has several player classes that change according to the map being played. One map may 
 have 5 classes, another may have 10. The point of the classes is to realistically simulate the 
 type of warfare for which the Eastern Front was notorious. All but the bolt-action riflemen class 
 are limited as to how many players can be of that class. This generally means 1 sniper, 1 or 2 
 machine gunners, 1 or 2 submachine gunners, and the rest are riflemen. Now some maps have specialty 
 classes like the engineer, that is equipped with a 10-pound explosive charge. On maps with vehicles, 
 there are tank crewmen, tank commanders, and anti-tank classes in addition to the others.
  
  Speaking of vehicles, RO has its share. About half the maps have at least a few vehicles but 
 it's the large, open, tank maps that really shine. These maps allow for unlimited tank crewmen 
 and each side's respective spawn area has a multitude of vehicles from which to choose. These vehicles 
 are all historically accurate, not only in looks but also in cannon power and armor. Every tank 
 has more armor in the front than the sides or rear, so attacking an enemy tank in the front with 
 anything but the biggest of guns is futile, but even the smaller guns can penetrate rear armor, 
 even on a heavy tank. The angle of fire also matters. Fire your gun at too shallow an angle and 
 your shell may just bounce off.
  
  Most of the weapons, both hand-held and crew-operated, are balanced. The hand-held weapons' Soviet 
 and German counterparts are of near-equal power, so neither side has any kind of clear weapon advantage. 
 The tanks are done well too. A heavy tank has a more powerful cannon and more armor, but moves 
 slower, has a slower reload rate, and a slower turret turn speed. A light tank has little armor, 
 small gun, a quick reload, and is nearly twice as fast as the heavy tanks, etc.
  
  The game looks and sounds awesome. There's a gritty look and feel to the game that's all the more 
 noticeable when artillery is raining down on you and your men. Explosions blow off limbs and look 
 really gruesome. Try shooting an enemy with a Soviet anti-tank rifle and gawk at the blood mist. 
 Most of the characters' animations are well done and every weapon has a distinctive sound, all 
 of which sound great. Clearly a lot of time was spent modeling weapons and recording good sounds 
 and it really paid off.
  
  All of the maps are very well done and RO veterans will recognize at least a few. The game's 13 
 stock maps vary in 3 different styles from pure infantry, to infantry with armor support, to pure 
 armor. These maps offer a little something for everyone.
  
  RO is a multi-player game but it does have offline bot support. The bots are aggressive enough 
 to keep you on your toes at higher difficulties, but none of them are overly bright. This game 
 was meant to be played with people and the bots are more for just getting the feel for a map or 
 practicing with different weapons rather than actual enjoyment.
  
  Overall, Red Orchestra: Ost Front is a success on every level. Even though the game is at its basest 
 level, the same game we've been playing for years, this time with a price-tag, Ost Front has enough 
 new content, gameplay additions, and bug fixes to recommend to long-time RO players as well as 
 WWII shooter fans in general.
  
  This is WWII like you've never played it before. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dwarden
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 27, 2006 12:39 am PT
Review:  Red Orchestra Ostfont 41-45 brings feeling of East front from World War 2 on Your monitors. Just 
 choose if You want become Russian soldier defending motherland or be the bad German invading. Equip 
 Yourself with weapons modeled to copy real ones. There are manually bolted rifles, ironsights for 
 aim, supported aim positions on object's edges, real ammunition limits, projectiles affected by 
 gravity, various vehicle damage points and wound types. Teamplay is must to claim victory! Not 
 to mention that game self is pushing UnrealEngine 2.5 to limits with well done graphics (including 
 additional DX9 effects) and fantastic sounds and all combined with interesting gameplay. Simple 
 it is unique concept. 
  
  What more You can ask for? 
  
  Oh yes, for more maps, classes, weapons, vehicles and equipment :) 
  All You need is just wait 
 for first update and release of SDK then this game jumps by another point up! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Baddad53
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 24, 2006 10:09 am PT
Review:  From an Infantry (old Sony game) , MOH, COD, CODUO, Halo, Halo2, BF2, Farcry and COD2 player:
  Best warfare FPS launched in years! Lots of great maps, realism, and few bugs!
  This is what 
 COD2 should have been if the CODUO team had done it. As vast a gameplay as BF2 but not twitchy 
 on internet glitches (multiplayer connection drops) . Graphics are very good but you will need a 
 good mid-range graphics card for it to play well (not the best just good) . For a new launch I have 
 not found any gameplay killing glitches. Developers did their homework and it shows. If you like 
 multiplayer run & gun (best ping wins!) with mindless gameplay this is not your game. Team play, 
 realism and tactics is what mades this game great. EA take note, pull your head out of your "you-know-what"! 
 And half the price of most new games in genre. Best battlefield sound effects to date. 
  Only negative is long learning curve (so if you are impatience you will miss out on a great multiplayer) 
 . Took me 12 game sessions to not have to think alot about keystrokes. On second thought the long 
 learning curve will keep the weak ones out, not a bad thing after all ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: duriensbain
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 23, 2006 12:19 pm PT
Review:  this game brings WW2 combat to your comp brilliantly!!!
  the physics are best ive seen for afv combat so far. 
  watching a steel sabot shot deflect off 
 the hull of your oponents tank and hit the ground at an obtuse angle is at first mystifying, then, 
 when you realise what just happened you are in awe!
  the effect s of a tank firing its main gun or brewing up after being hit fatally is brilliant, 
 best ive seen in any game, and did i mention it has imersive infantry Vs infantry battles,
  well it does and combined arms actions abound. calling in artilliary is effortless and the thump 
 is really enough to make you duck.
  but the true masterwork in this game is the long range afv combat, nothing you have played will 
 prepare you for it, to see the shot ( a tiny dot ) fly down range and drop everso slightly out to 
 say 500 yds. is a joy to behold
  Red orchestra i love you
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Waxslinger
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 22, 2006 1:34 pm PT
Review:  First let me explain that I'm a huge Battlefield 1942 fan, and I've been playing that game since 
 the demo. 3 freakin' years!!! I've been waiting for that one game that would finally be the BF 
 killer. IMO, nothing has been able to top that game. Not BFV, BF2, Joint Ops, CoD2.... nothing. 
 I always went back to 42 because I felt it did the best job of balancing fun vs realism of any 
 game out there (IMO anyway) . I've always felt there was a huge division between military style 
 fps's. Either they looked great, controlled well, but were kinda unrealistic (BF, Joint Ops, CoD, 
 etc..) or they were realistic, but ugly, clumsy, and boring (Operation Flashpoint, Vietcong, Forgotten 
 Hope) . I was giving up hope there would ever be a realistic WWII fps that really took the best 
 parts of all the current shooters on the market and put them together into one game. Well, Tripwire 
 Int. has answered my prayer and has created the BF42 killer I've been waiting for and it's name 
 is Red Orchestra Ostfront 41-45!!!
  
  It's not a perfect game, but it does what it does well and with a few improvements (that I'm told 
 are already being remedied) , it will stand head and shoulders above the rest. I've only played 
 about 10 hours so far, but man o' man, I'm already head over heels for this game, particularly 
 the city fighting. It's so immersive and as close to the real thing that any game has managed to 
 date. You really have to work with your team, move methodically, and use cover to do well. Those 
 that do this will excel in RO. Those that don't and try to run & gun will get owned over and over 
 again. Finally a game that rewards the intelligent player and punishes the bunny hoppers!
  
  I'm owning in the infantry city maps, but I'm getting worked in tanks. There really is a pretty 
 steep learning curve to getting good in these beasts, not to mention you need a good tank crew 
 with you. You've got to know the maps, know the tanks, and understand positioning and angles. It 
 really helps if you read the pdf files first. The days of one person jumping in a tank and just 
 running around alone are over. You'll need at least one other competent player with you to even 
 have a chance. 
  
  As far as the graphics, I was a bit worried from what I had been reading about the game in user 
 reviews, but after firing the game up at the highest possible settings at 1280x1024, I was pleasantly 
 surprised how sharp things looked. While it's no CoD2, it easily surpasses games like BF42 & BFV. 
 The only real issues I have with the graphics are the water and some of the foliage. The water 
 looks like a flat sheet of ice and some of the bushes and trees look like cardboard cutouts (they 
 look good at a distance though and do work for cover) . The vehicles, textures, buildings, and player 
 models all look outstanding IMO. The soldiers move a bit stiff, but it's not that bad. I was also 
 impressed with the varied settings from map to map. Each map has a very distinct look and is littered 
 with detail. 
  
  The sound is also amazing. Everything sounds magnificent from explosions, to gunfire, to vehicles, 
 to speech and really adds that extra element of realism. Props to the sound department for a job 
 well done. 
  
  In conclusion..... for people that are looking to play an intelligent WWII fps, look no further. 
 RO is right up your alley. If your prefer the run & gun style of BF or CoD, you may wanna keep 
 your distance cause guys like me will waste you over, and over, and over again. 
  
  God, I'm scared at how much time this game will suck out of my life. Good thing I'm self employed 
 and have lots of free time. :) 
  
  RO rules!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dwdrums36
Rating: 6.9
Date: Mar 22, 2006 8:19 pm PT
Review:  All I have to say is said above. Perhaps it will grow on me, but I have yet to see the value in 
 this game. While Valve tends to put out extremely good games that always interest me. This one 
 sort of rubs me the wrong way. I think WWII has sort of become an overdone subject and should be 
 put to rest. 
  
  Gameplay: Ok... I guess... I mean it's the same thing we've seen over and over again. While the weapon 
 models are nice (the graphics do suffer a bit...) the lack of a crosshair makes aiming difficult. 
 One must use the actual Iron to aim.
  
  Graphics: Definetley does not live up to Valve's previous work. WIth the advent of the Unreal Engine, 
 I am surprised that this game suffers so much.
  
  Sound: Rudimentary gun sounds. Nothing specatcular here.
  
  Overall: A solid game for $25.00 
 but I wouldn' spend your money on it if the price of Call of Duty II comes down anytime soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ratamacue
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 22, 2006 12:39 am PT
Review:  Everything's quiet, but you know the Germans are coming. You rise out of your trench, moving forward 
 to seek a better defensive position as the others around you do the same. Behind you, a machinegunner 
 is set up behind sandbags atop a sunken wooden bunker. A nearby rifleman kneels behind and leans 
 his rifle against a tree to provide both cover and a stable firing position. Then, faint silhouettes 
 begin to appear over a ridge in the distance. The machine gun behind you opens up, chugging out 
 green tracer rounds that bounce into the air as they slam into the ground. A German MG responds, 
 sending yellow tracers overhead. You sprint for and dive behind a tree stump, the only nearby cover. 
 You pull your submachine gun to your shoulder, resting it atop the stump for stability, and burp 
 a burst of rounds at the MG, momentarily silencing it as the gunner ducks down. 
  
  For now, you and your team seem to be holding the enemy at bay, but it'll take more to keep them 
 from advancing further. Your platoon commander calls in artillery on the enemy ridgeline, bringing 
 down volleys of thundering shells that shake the ground beneath you. You continue tofire off bursts 
 at the silhouettes until enemy fire begins to hone in on your position, causing you to duck down. 
 Nearby, a friendly slumps down to their side, writhing in pain on the ground, struck by incoming 
 fire. You dash to the tree he is at, leaning around and spraying at the enemy. It's clear that 
 the artillery isn't enough as the Germans get closer and closer to your lines. As they approach, 
 grenades are hurled in both directions. Your grenade hits its mark, and an enemy is knocked over, 
 their leg blown off at the knee. The soldier next to you fixes their bayonet in anticipation for 
 close combat.
  
  Finally, the Germans make it into the trenches. You pull the pin on your last grenade, and release 
 the spoon to let it cook. A second later, you toss it into a trench, causing another enemy to meet 
 a grisly fate. As you dive into the trench, a German jumps in from the opposite side. Firing your 
 weapon from your hip, your rounds miss their target and your weapon clicks empty. In desperation, 
 you hold your rifle up and swing at the man standing before you. Miraculously, it makes contact, 
 sounding a loud *CRACK* and knocking him to the ground. There are simply too many of them, and 
 the message comes that the enemy has taken their first objective, an anti-tank gun position.
  
  The combined sounds of artillery, grenades, and small arms are nearly defeaning as you fall 
 back to the command bunker. After resupplying from the weapons cache there, you lean around a bend 
 in the trench, ready to defend against the waiting onslaught. Grenades again start flying overhead, 
 and your platoon commander adjusts artillery to come in closer. Again your position begins to become 
 overrun, and you fall back to cover inside the bunker itself. A grenade flies in and you hit the 
 deck, protected from the blast and shrapnel by your cover, but another soldier is not so fortunate. 
 Enemies begin pouring inside from the trenches. Spraying wildly, you take a couple down, but as 
 you turn to your left, a German charges wildly at you with a fixed bayonet, and sticks you in the 
 gut before you can fire. The enemy has taken the command bunker. All that there is left to hold 
 is a broken, ruined train station, which the enemy is now calling artillery down on using your 
 own radio. Can your team hold out?
  
  Welcome to the eastern front.
  
  ----------
  
  The first thing to note about Red Orchestra is that you're dealing with a much more realistic 
 game than most of what's out there, particularly in the multiplayer arena. Weapons have realistic 
 ballistic trajectories, and it rarely takes more than one or two shots to kill someone with any 
 weapon. Movement speed is vastly slower than games like DOD. Jumping is only of limited height 
 and usefulness. There is a "free-aim" system that makes it even more difficult to aim when not 
 sighted. But the real greatness comes out in the details. The fact that you can lean any weapon 
 against any bump, stump, sandbag, wall, pillar, ANYTHING in such a simply and dynamic way is absolutely 
 invaluable. Any weapon can be used for butt-strikes (and some weapons can also be mounted with 
 a bayonet) , unlike other games where, for whatever reason, none can or only select weapons can. 
 MG barrels can overheat, and German MGs can have their barrel replaced (while the Russian one realistically 
 can't be) .
  
  The gameplay itself is the most intense I've ever seen in multiplayer. Most important to this is 
 how they've managed to really create a "front line" sort of feel, where there's a main line of 
 resistance over which the action takes place (typically around an objective) , as opposed to most 
 other games I've played where everyone simply runs around all over the place. The result is that 
 firefights are realistic and prolonged, as you pop in and out of cover (how many games have you 
 played where cover is actually important?) , taking both aimed shots and laying down suppressive 
 fire. I've found that people seem to naturally work as part of a team, clearing buildings together, 
 providing covering fire while others move up to assault a position, etc.
  
  Likely the weakest point of RO is the tank gameplay, which while an improvement over contemporaries 
 such as BF, does not typically mesh well with infantry play. The most important of the improvements 
 here is in ballistics. Tanks have realistic levels of armor over their body (and corresponding 
 weak spots) , and cannons have appropriate power and penetration values. Additionally, rounds can 
 simply bounce off (causing no damage at all) depending on the power of the round and the strength/slope 
 of the armor. Furthermore, most tanks have both armor-piercing and high-explosive rounds, which 
 each have advantages in different situations. Most importantly, there are separate driver and gunner 
 positions, which makes tank gameplay slower paced and puts a great emphasis on teamwork when you 
 act as part of a crew (they're also made it very easy for the gunner to communicate movements to 
 the driver through use of the numpad) . However, tank-based maps leave essentially no place for 
 infantry, and tanks can be a dominating force on infantry-based maps (which, while perhaps realistic, 
 can be quite annoying) .
  
  Graphically, the game is slightly dated compared to games like DOD: S or BF2, but the skins/textures 
 and animations create a fantastic level of grittiness. The explosion effects are appropriately 
 smokey and dusty. Death animations/ragdolls look extremely realistic. Bodies hit by grenades become 
 bloody and often lose limbs. The real star on the media front, however, is the sound. There isn't 
 really a way to appropriately describe it, but suffice to say, the sounds are powerful and intense.
 
  
  For $25 off Steam, you can't really go wrong if this is the type of game you're looking for. If 
 you want a more arcadey, run-and-gun type game like DOD or BF2, then you may not enjoy it. However, 
 if you're looking for a slower-paced, more realistic, and more immersive multiplayer game, get 
 this. Give it a chance and let it grow on you. The only multiplayer game I've seen that's as good 
 as this is World War II Online, and this doesn't require a $15/month fee. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fararara
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 20, 2006 6:41 pm PT
Review:  SHORT VERSION:
  Red Orchestra: Ostfront 41-45 compared to Day of Defeat: Source :
  - Slower gameplay
  - Graphics seem less polished
  + 14 vehicles to operate: 12 tanks, Soviet 
 armored car, German half-track
  - Good luck telling the tanks apart on the battlefield (although most German Panzerkampfwagens 
 are painted differently)
  + Iron sights
  + Bayonets and gun melee attacks
  - They're pretty slow and look bad
  + Big maps
  - 90-120 second wait time between maps and 
 no progress bar
  + 13 different maps, 7 have vehicles
  - Big maps mean ALOT of walking (slowly) for people without vehicles
  + 28 weapons to choose 
 from
  - Recoil and aiming can take alot of getting used to
  - Gameplay takes alot of getting used to
  - No crosshair can confuse new players
  - New players 
 who don't look at their orders can be very confused
  - Is that guy on my team?
  - Grenades don't go far and stick to the ground
  - Walking, running, throwing animations could 
 be better
  + Longer sprint time
  + Frightening airstrikes, great sound
  + Blow up a tank on foot with a Panzerfaust
  + Specific body part damage
  + Semi-automatic 
 sniper rifles on some maps
  - Looks worse at 800x600 compared to DoD: S
  - No breakable windows, doors, etc (uses Unreal 2.5 engine, not Source)
  - Rifleman have to press 
 fire AGAIN to reload
  - FF seems to always be on, so teamkilling could still be a big problem
  + Most servers have 
 a FFKillLimit that autokicks TKers
  + Some players may like the slower pace
  
  LONG VERSION:
  This review refers to the Steam-downloaded version of the game.
  
  Most of 
 my opinions of this game are due to playing Wolfenstein: Enemy Territory, Day of Defeat, and Day 
 of Defeat: Source before it.
  
  Initially I was interested in this game for the following reasons: it was supposedly a more realistic 
 wargame, had 14 vehicles to operate, no crosshairs, and I was impressed by the trailer. I thought 
 it would be like Day of Defeat: Source with vehicles, but it's not. If TripWire wanted to show 
 that "War is Hell" I think they've accomplished it. If War is Hell, how is a game that realistically 
 portrays it supposed to be fun?
  
  I bought and pre-loaded the game via Steam before March 14th so the GCF cache files were already 
 on my computer. Once it was released on March 14th, I tried to play and it wouldn't load. So I 
 went to Steampowered. com and the #1 new help topic was "Red Orchestra won't load." Apparently Steam 
 needed to validate the files *again* in order to play. After the pre-loaded files were validated 
 I had to wait another 20 minutes for more updates.
  
  The game crashed 2 or 3 times the first time I tried running it, perhaps because of ZoneAlarm. 
 I have a P4 3.2C CPU, ASUS P4C800E motherboard, 1GB PC3200 RAM, and an ATI Radeon 9800 Pro 128MB 
 videocard.
  
  The main menu is clunky compared to DoD: S. After I remapped the controls to my liking (and there 
 are ALOT of them) I went to play on the Internet. First time I went to play (around 4 hours after 
 it was released) there were over 230 servers but the filter system is lousy. I selected a server 
 and the "Deploy" screen that comes up before a map loads TAKES FOREVER. Or at least it seems that 
 way because there is no visible Progress Bar. A new map typically takes 90-120 seconds to load, 
 probably because some of them are fairly big. The picture during this screen also has no relation 
 to the content of the map. Get used to seeing these pictures ALOT as you wait for maps to change. 
 Better bring a book to read. I'm halfway through War and Peace right now.
  
  There is some interesting info on the character select screen. You can select from several classes 
 depending on the map. The weapon select portion is very unintuitive -- I didn't realize I could 
 choose a different weapon until a while after playing. As of March 15th, 2006 at 7PM Mountain Time, 
 I saw 380 servers with 1,496 players playing Red Orchestra; 42 servers had at least 20 people playing 
 on them. As of March 20th, 2006 at 6PM Mountain Time, I saw 443 servers with 1,167 players; 28 
 servers had at least 20 people playing on them.
  
  After playing Day of Defeat: Source, the game is definitely jarring at first. Early on I noticed 
 how sluggish your character is. It feels like you're wading through molasses. Different guns and 
 ammo have different weights and affect how fast you can move. I'm guessing TripWire designed it 
 that way to cut down on lag on huge maps, but lag still occurs. It seems like you can sprint for 
 a longer time than in DoD: S, which is nice. But it seems more like trotting than running. The walking, 
 running, and throwing animations could be ALOT better. A white border grows up around your player 
 icon in the lower left, showing how tired he is. If you fall from a great height, the legs on the 
 player icon will go red, indicating an injury and your speed will be affected. Different body parts 
 on your player icon will also turn red if injured.
  
  There is no HUD like in DoD: S in the top right, but you can put a compass on screen. You can look 
 in your orders to see which places need to be captured and your position is shown as a red arrow. 
 I find it annoying that you have to press the fire button AGAIN to reload rifles. You can visually 
 see how many ammo clips you have left but it's easy to run out of a clip without warning. It's 
 nice that you can aim down the iron sights on most weapons, but sometimes it's hard to tell what 
 you're firing at. It's lame when you throw grenades because they don't go very far and just stick 
 to the ground. Having no visible crosshair is fine, if your character would shoot straight. There 
 should *at least* be a button to make your guy hold his gun straight in front of him. New player 
 may find themselves running diagonally due to how your guy holds his rifle.
  
  When you're moving near the edges of a map you'll get a onscreen warning saying you've entered 
 a minefield and you'll die if you keep going. Picking up things is a chore because you have to 
 be next to them just right. Each team has a limit on Reinforcements so if you die often, soon your 
 team won't be able to respawn. The scoped sniper rifles are great, especially the semi-auto ones, 
 but I think it's only available on some maps.
  
  If you have UT2K4, I would recommend playing the Unreal Tournament Red Orchestra mod before playing 
 this. I think it's impressive that this game began as a mod, and you can tell alot of work was 
 put into it. I do like that you can mount a bayonet on your rifle (like in DoD but left out of 
 DoD: S) . You can also hit people with the butt of your gun. But you can't punch, kick, or wrestle 
 someone to the floor and stab them. If your gun gets shot out of your hand you're pretty much out 
 of luck because your character doesn't know how to punch.
  
  Some maps have tanks, some don't. To operate a tank you have to be tank class, so other classes 
 can't just get in and get a ride. Initially, I thought the tank maps were the best part of the 
 game, but after a while some maps become pretty easy for one side to win, like Arad and Ogledow. 
 Operating the tanks is difficult at first, especially over uneven ground. Tanks can hold 2 or 3 
 team members, each in different positions, but you can operate them with only one person. One drives 
 (behind a tiny porthole or out a hatch in the open) , one operates the main cannon. Some tanks have 
 machine gun positions. Scroll through Next Weapon/Previous weapon to see all the tank positions. 
 Operating a tank with other team members is fun at first and you can configure the keyboard to 
 give better vehicle commands. Without good communication, a tank crew can die pretty quickly. Different 
 tanks have different reload times due to ammo size and you can hear your guy breathing hard as 
 he reloads the cannon.
  
  Russian BA-64 armored cars hold a driver and a machinegunner and any Soviet can operate them, but 
 they are very easy to turn over so you have to be more careful driving them. German half-tracks 
 have a driver, a machinegunner, and several Werhmacht can sit on the benches inside. You can't 
 steal enemy vehicles, which is sad. One of my favorite things in the game is blowing up enemy tanks 
 on foot with a Panzer. You can also walk right up to an enemy tank and try and shoot the driver 
 through the porthole before it runs you over. Certain classes can place satchel charges on tanks 
 and blow them up. Some people may not like that enemies can exit a tank immediately to avoid exploding. 
 Get ready for ALOT of travel on foot if you don't have a vehicle on tank maps. Small vehicles like 
 motorcycles with a sidecar would be a nice addition.
  
  The game seems popular in Europe (due to the setting I'm sure) and you'll hear many people with 
 British, Swedish, etc accents talking on the microphone.
  
  I hear TripWire wanted to focus on realism but I wonder if parts of the game are due to engine 
 limitations. Walk up to a vehicle and fire at it and there's a very noticeable delay between the 
 triggerpull and the bullet hitting the metal. You can't enter most buildings in villages; I guess 
 to keep the combat focused more on tanks. They obviously made some compromises to realism, as game 
 rounds are 20 minutes long and you can talk with teammates hundreds of yards away. In the first 
 few hours of playing, expect to die ALOT. You'll get mowed down by machineguns and snipers and 
 run over by tanks. Your vision gets blurry when you get hit or when an airstrike is raining down 
 around you. There doesn't seem to be a crouch-jump so you can't climb over railings or over sandbags 
 like you could in real life. You can practice offline with some bots, but there is really no training 
 portion to be seen. New players should study the Game Controls screen and remember which keys they 
 mapped and maybe look up tactics at http://www. redorchestragame. com. Going from having an awesome 
 physics engine in Source games to Red Orchestra is a definite step down in my opinion.
  
  Originally the graphics were muddy at 800x600 so I turned off HDR. Playing as a Rifleman at 800x600 
 with HDR on was a miserable experience. Everything seemed blurry and slow and I could almost never 
 tell what I was aiming at. Once I changed the resolution to 1024x768 with High Texture Detail it 
 looked MUCH nicer. Some maps are pretty dark and it's hard to make things out, but I guess that's 
 where teamwork comes in. I bought the game before finding out it used the Unreal 2.5 engine and 
 I keep wondering how it would look and play on the Source engine. I think some of the maps would 
 make FANTASTIC DoD: S maps. I especially like Konigsplatz where Soviet tanks try to reach the Reichstag. 
 There are 13 maps total, which is a nice change from DoD: S's original 4. But it seems silly that 
 it takes 2 minutes for a map to load when the round takes 15-20 minutes. Since some maps are so 
 big they can feel especially lonely; I suppose this is just more "realism" by Tripwire. Here's 
 a quick overview of the maps:
  
  Arad - Tank map. Easily won. Soviet and German tanks try to capture North Field/Village, South Field/Village. 
 Sunny.
  Baksan Valley - Infantry map. Capture/Hold church, ruins, old mill. Rainy, dark.
  Barashka - Tank map. Use tanks and capture/hold 2 bridges, north/south banks. Snowy.
  Basovka 
 - Infantry map. Full of trenches. Capture/Hold AT gun position, command post, and train station. 
 Sunny.
  Bondarevo - Tank map. Drive through wheat fields and capture villages. Bright.
  Hedgehog - Use tanks/half-track/armored car and capture farmhouses. Semi-auto sniper is available.
 
  Kaukasus - Capture/Defend a mountain top fortress.
  Konigsplatz - Tank map. Soviets must work their way through a destroyed Berlin to the Reichstag. 
 Dark.
  Kransyi Oktyabr - Infantry map. Capture/defend Central Yard, Petrol Yard, Garage, Conference Hall. 
 Rainy.
  Odessa - Infantry map. Soviets try to capture Apartments, Square, Tower, etc.
  Ogledow - Tank map. Easily won. Capture a hill, a farm, and Ogledow.
  Rakowice - Tank map. Snowy 
 airfield. Downed planes. Armored car available.
  StalingradKessel - Infantry map. Snowy. Soviets have to capture apartments, and trainyard.
  
 
  The sound is great. Airstrikes and machinegun fire is frightening and tanks all sound like you 
 would expect. German and Russian sayings sound good too. I read somewhere that all of the gun sounds 
 are authentic.
  
  I don't know if Red Orchestra is worth $25 when you can buy Half-Life 2 now for $30 and download 
 free mods for it, but I suppose they're for different audiences. Since Red Orchestra was made by 
 modders there should be an active modding community, but I wonder how many modders will want to 
 charge for them, like Tripwire has done. I wonder if I can download and use other UT2K4 mods to 
 use with RO, but I doubt it. It should be easy to get future updates via Steam. I wonder how many 
 things will be changed when the boxed version is released by Bold Games.
  
  In summary, once you get used to the controls and the game style, Red Orchestra: Ostfront 41-45 
 can be a fun game. It's MUCH slower paced than Day of Defeat: Source. After only a few hours of 
 frustrated playing I wanted to give it a 3.0, but after playing more and getting the hang of things 
 I'll give it a higher score, mostly due to the tank battles which I've never really experienced 
 in a 3D game. I haven't played Battlefield 1942, but I could have bought the Anthology instead 
 for $5 more, even if it is older. If you're coming straight from Day of Defeat: Source, you may 
 want to wait for the demo unless you've got a great interest in Soviet warfare in the early 1940s. 
 If you do buy it, I think you'll find it grows on you, but I can't help feeling a little disappointed. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamerboi27
Rating: 7.9
Date: Mar 20, 2006 11:46 am PT
Review:  when people read reviews, they tend to read the bad side of the game first..... so ill start with 
 the cons....
  
  The bad: I think the worst part of this game is probably the graphics...
  Even tho im a very picky person when it comes to graphics.... but i mean cmon, this game came out 
 way later than DOD source and yet has worse graphics.... and i dont mean a tiny difference thats 
 hard to notice... i mean a BIG difference... first of all, (1) theres no ragdoll effect (real time 
 physics) ... If u want to make a game thats realistic... U NEED REAL TIME!!!!
  (2) the water looks static with no waves and looks like ice (similar to counterstikes water graphics) 
 and when u shoot at the water.. THERES NO SPLASH!!!! (WTF lol) This game was design to be really 
 realistic, but some of the most important factors that make a game realistic, is missing... if this 
 game came out before DOD source, then i would say it has really good graphics... but anyways enuff 
 of the graphics... (3) another thing i thought was dumb.. is that the bullet are green!!! ... i dont 
 no y they did that... if ur gonna put a color into the path of the bullets... at least make it yellow...... (4) 
 I also hated the ways the people walked in that game... it looks like every step they glide a little 
 bit... = =" ... The key config was kinda messed up to.. i would suggest correcting it until u feel 
 comfortable.. cause the defult keys are out of place...
  
  The good: The things that make this game fun is the gameplay and the sound... Even tho this game 
 has bad graphics are all... it still is realistic... for example when u get shot in the hand or ur 
 gun... the weapon is dropped which I found was very interesting... another thing is theres no round 
 counters which means u dont no how much bullets uve shot already... and reloading takes longer... which 
 is realistic.... I have to admit that this game has one of the best sound out of all the FPS (first 
 person shooters) . I really liked how the bullets sound... sounds like it just flew past ur head... and 
 the sound of the guns and tanks sound like real guns and tank.... cause they recorded from realy 
 weapons... which makes the sound phenominal.....
  
  in conclusion.... i STRONGLY recommand trying it at a friends house or somthing or the demo .... cause 
 if ur picky about a lot of thingy (like me ^^) dont buy is rite away 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedSoxRebel
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 19, 2006 7:28 pm PT
Review:  This is dfenitly the best online ww2 shooter out there. It has plenty of amazing elements. But 
 first let me state the main problem, the controls are scattered all over the keyboard in crappy 
 places so you have to reconfigure them which takes like ten minutes but other then that it's amazing. 
 First is that it's realistic, this pulls it apart from other online shooters for instance day of 
 defeat. DoD is an excellant game (i've played source) but that's more run and gun and you don't 
 need your team as much. In this your team is the ultimate resource. This game requires that you 
 use the team. If you try and be the team hero you will not suceed. Secndly it has plenty of excellant 
 maps. There are about 12 maps. Each map covers a part of ww2 that the russians fought. And finnally 
 the graphics and sound. The sound, oh my god!, it's freakin amazing. First of all the voice overs 
 are excellant, theya re actually russian and german and sound superb. The weapons there eveen better 
 when playing this it feels like your fighting on the russian front. And the graphics. IF you can 
 run this game on high settings, which i did, it looks superb. It has a few flaws, but it's easy 
 to look past them, when an update is released they'll be fixed. And that bull about buying off 
 steam don't listen. Once you buy it just vertify game cache and it's up and running. So go buy 
 this you'll be certain to be pleased. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spark
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 18, 2006 10:33 pm PT
Review:  World War II games have been very popular in recent years. From the large-scale combat of Battlefield 
 1942 to the run-and-gun action of the Call of Duty series, the gaming industry has been releasing 
 an endless supply of World War II-themed shooters. That's why It's always refreshing to see an 
 excellent game like Red Orchestra: Ostfront 41-45 breath fresh air into the genre. Red Orchestra: 
 Ostfront 41-45 is a realistic World War II shooter that is likely to please those who are looking 
 for an authentic World War II shooter.
  
  Red Orchestra: Ostfront 41-45 gives the player the opportunity to fight as either the Soviet Red 
 Army or the German Wehrmacht across 13 Eastern Front maps with 14 vehicles and 28 weapons at your 
 disposal. Aiming to be as realistic as possible, the developers at Tripwire Interactive have wisely 
 chosen not to include crosshairs. Instead, you'll have to use the 3D Iron Sights that are included 
 on every weapon. While this may scare away those who are used to crosshairs, it works surprisingly 
 well. This means that you have to carefully aim your shots if you expect to kill, which prevents 
 running and gunning from being effective. Your player also moves more slowly than in other popular 
 shooters, and maps are very large and expansive. This means that you'll have to use cover effectively 
 if you wish to survive, of which there is an ample supply of. Damage is also very realistic. High 
 Caliber rifles such as the Mosin-Nagant are likely to register instant kills, while a player can 
 survive a hit or two from automatic weapons such as the MP 40.
  
  My biggest complaint about the gameplay has to be the Tank-Heavy maps. The tanks operate very realistically, 
 backing up slowly and moving very quickly in open stretches. The turret will take a long time to 
 get into position, and shells will take a very long time to reload after being fired. Another realistic 
 element is that sometimes your shots will completely deflect off of an enemy tank without doing 
 damage. This is rather annoying though, as it is dissatisfying to fire an enemy round at a tank 
 to have it bounce off harmlessly, and then to have said tank turn its turret on you and blow you 
 up in a single hit. Fortunately though, these maps are much fewer than the Infantry-Heavy maps.
 
  
  The graphics in the game are good, but not great. While the Unreal 2.5 Engine has aged and isn't 
 as polished or bright as the current generation engines, it still manages to look good. The structures 
 and terrain look well textured, and the vehicles are top-notch in terms of appearances. My only 
 real complaint with the graphics is the facial models of players. They look somewhat unrealistic 
 and jagged, which detracts from the overall graphical experience.
  
  The sound is excellent. All of the rifle sounds are authentic, with special detail given to distance. 
 You'll hear bullets whizzing past your head, giving you the signal to get to cover, while shots 
 being fired from far away will sound distant. You'll also be able to tell from which direction 
 shots are being fired, allowing you to get a sense of where the enemy is.
  
  My biggest complaint with the game has to be the controls. In the default settings, they are absolutely 
 terrible to have to use. Before you jump into gameplay, it's probably best to spend some time configuring 
 the controls until you're comfortable with them. While this may sound like a chore, it will increase 
 your overall effectiveness in the long-term.
  
  Overall, Red Orchestra: Ostfront 41-45 is an excellent multiplayer experience. Its realistic combat 
 is likely to grow on even the most kosher of Arcade-Style gamers, and It's likely to enjoy a long 
 future. And at $25, it's a steal compared to other games of its quality. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sykoticangel
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 2, 2006 6:35 pm PT
Review:  One could easily be forgiven for believing that after the tirade of World War 2 shooters released 
 in recent years, there couldn't possibly be any stone left unturned for the genre. So when Red 
 Orchestra: Ostfront 41-45 was announced as an upcoming title for the Steam distribution network- 
 along with a jaw-dropping trailer depicting rolling tanks and huge, grisly battlefields- I wasn't 
 the only one looking out the window for flying bacon.
  
  Developed by Tripwire Interactive, Red Orchestra: Ostfront was borne from the extremely generous 
 "Make Something Unreal" competition sponsored by NVIDIA; which saw Tripwire Interactive setup with 
 a $350,000 Unreal Engine commercial license and $50,000 spending money for its total conversion 
 of Unreal Tournament 2004, 'Red Orchestra'.
  
  For those of you who haven't heard of the Red Orchestra sensation, it deploys gamers to the Eastern 
 war-torn battlegrounds of World War II, portraying the struggle between Soviet and German forces. 
 Ostfront continues in this fashion, delivering an array of extremely detailed and varied environments 
 that set the backdrop of this comprehensive but starkly original multiplayer experience.
  
  From the moment you enter the game, you are treated to the grandeur of Ostfront. Whether you are 
 fighting on the snow-blanketed tarmacs of a Krakow military airport or the flat, arid grasslands 
 of Ukraine or even in the streets of imperial Berlin itself, you can literally feel how big and 
 imposing these landscapes really are. The amount of detail put into the architecture and environments 
 is phenomenal- Tripwire has done some fantastic work here. 
  
  The graphics engine itself is a heavily modified Unreal 2.5 engine- for those in the know this 
 is actually a fairly out-of-date package, but it doesn't do "too much" to hinder the experience. 
 I'd like to emphasise that because some may well jump into Ostfront and be disheartened by the 
 lack of bump maps and the sort of cutting-edge tech that we've been spoilt with of late. In fact, 
 Ostfront doesn't have even the expected basic options, such as Anti-Aliasing and Anisotropic filtering. 
 It was only until after visiting the official forums I was informed that the best way to play Ostfront 
 was to force these advanced settings in your graphics card control panel. That aside however, the 
 graphics are still great- the accuracy and detail put into the player models and weapon models 
 does justice to the exceptional presentation of Ostfront as a whole. This game was certainly not 
 rushed- painstaking effort has been made to ensure attention and detail that is rarely seen in 
 popular releases.
  
  This detail is carried through to the animation and physics employed in Ostfront. Shying away from 
 the "hitscan" approach that is commonly used in online shooters (whereby your 'hit' is determined 
 instantaneously as soon as you fire) , Ostfront uses a complete "projectile" system- each bullet 
 fired is actually traversing the in-game space. This allows for an ultra-realistic experience, 
 particularly noticeable when trying to fire at long-distance targets- you have to appropriately 
 'lead' your target before firing. As well as this, Ostfront has also surprisingly departed from 
 the staple 'crosshair' common to almost every other shooter imaginable. All weapons have fully 
 3D "iron sights" and are true to their real-life counterparts. There's no "shot counter"- you'll 
 have to keep count of your rounds- and when you reload with a full clip, you may find yourself 
 unexpectedly short a little later on when you re-use what was left. Features like this are what 
 lend Ostfront its 'realism'- patience and thinking prior to pulling that trigger is required in 
 order to take away a sizable chunk of enemy brain matter and not end up on the receiving end instead!
 
  
  Yes, Ostfront also packs dynamic rag dolls complete with life-like gibs. Everything from hit location, 
 power and distance is calculated to determine if you are merely slowed for a time by that hit to 
 your arm, or if it's severed completely and has effectively incapacitated your ability to continue 
 fighting. Suffering a wound like this in Ostfront will remove you from the game play and back to 
 the respawning queue- you can't do anything but die out on the front lines sans an arm or leg. 
 Similarly, having near-miss bullets whiz past your head will result in a disorienting 'blurred 
 vision' that puts off your aiming- nearby grenades going off will produce the same type of concussive 
 effect, which can be used to great advantage.
  
  As well as pools of blood and realistic bullet effects, the other thing that many players like 
 to see in World War 2 shooters is tanks. Let's face it, when those trailers were released over 
 Steam, the thing that captured the most attention was the promise of tank warfare- which thankfully 
 Ostfront delivers in bucket-fulls. In most of the 13 maps offered at release, there is the option 
 of selecting a "tank team" class, which enables you to drive or man any vehicle available. The 
 armour divisions in Ostfront are neither overpowered nor overshadowed. A very satisfying balance 
 is struck whereby tank and infantry forces need to coordinate to complete map objectives. There 
 are a variety of different tanks to roll around the battlefield in, each with their own firing 
 strengths and weaknesses, armour weak-points and armour hard-points and as such, require time to 
 get familiar with each one. On the flipside, as an anti-tank class, firing a panzerfaust (RPG) 
 into one tank with a flat front will have completely different results to a tank that has a sloping 
 front- there is really a high learning curve to Ostfront that will only be fully realised after 
 many practice sessions.
  
  Another rewarding (and highly addictive!) aspect to tank warfare is discovered when you first hear 
 the generous bellows that radiate around the tank cabin when the main cannon is fired and the bassy 
 thuds of return fire reverberate around you. The sounds used in Ostfront are exceptional! Each 
 weapon or vehicle has its own distinct sound on the battlefield and there's no bothersome background 
 noises to distract you while scanning for enemies- you hear only sounds that have been made by 
 other players. The sounds are heavy and powerful, and they really lend weight to the deadly and 
 unforgiving warfare experienced in Ostfront. As well as great weapon sounds, Ostfront also has 
 an easily accessible voice command feature sporting authentic Russian and German 'commands' and 
 responses (and taunts!) for communicating with your team mates.
  
  On the topic of communication, Ostfront diverges from the popular WW2 shooters in circulation at 
 the moment by providing a well thought-out, tactical and team-based communication system. VOIP 
 is built into the game play interface and compliments the available voice commands- you have the 
 option to "talk" to your team, the entire server, or just those players "local" to your position. 
 Such an intuitive communications system supports the notion that Ostfront isn't your typical 'run 
 and gun' game- even in public servers you'll find that your team will employ crafty tactics and 
 flanking manoeuvres to flush out your enemies and complete the objectives. Failing to do so usually 
 equates to a really short game and your entire team being thoroughly steamrolled into defeat, so 
 there's a real emphasis on team-strategising.
  
  The classes and weapon load outs offered by Ostfront also support this idea. Two of the classes 
 that stand out in particular are the commander and tank commander. These are support-based units 
 that have different abilities to a regular soldier. The commanders are able to call in artillery 
 fire on any location they can get line of sight on with their binoculars. Through the simple use 
 of a (strategically placed) radio the commander is able to have his desired coordinates "called 
 in" and the designated area bombarded by heavy artillery fire. On some maps artillery seems to 
 occur too often and can impose heavy tolls on your team. Fortunately, the general 'pushing' nature 
 of game play means that artillery won't be effective for too long, and generally the under-equipped 
 commander won't be able to withstand a frontal assault.
  
  Ostfront is definitely a game that "grows on you"; if only because there is so much content and 
 detail to wrap your head around that you only come to appreciate it once you have a solid understanding 
 of the game play mechanics. It is definitely worth spending time to familiarise yourself with the 
 maps, weapons, vehicles and other features in the single player 'Practice' Mode prior to jumping 
 into a multiplayer game. Tripwire has understood the need for this and has graciously included 
 a full 'bot' player system to pad out your single player experience! The bots have varying and 
 customisable difficulty and will provide a good starting point for you to learn how things work 
 in Ostfront. The bots can even be added to a multiplayer game to entice players to join if needs 
 be- this is a really neat and handy feature if you want to have a LAN game but don't have enough 
 players to fill out a map.
  
  If you're looking for a 'realistic' multiplayer experience that rewards teamwork and tactical game 
 play, then you'll find Ostfront hard to pass by. Its thrilling depth and true-to-life game play 
 mechanics magnify its appeal as a breathtaking shooter. Through a well-balanced and unparalleled 
 blend of tank warfare and infantry combat, Ostfront manages to capture the essence of World War 
 II on a grandiose scale and successfully draws the player into an immersive and grisly warfare 
 experience.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hoodster246
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 17, 2006 9:52 pm PT
Review:  this is one of the best fps games ive ever played. I love the vehicle presentation and the fact 
 u can open hatches to look out and such. I am a big fan of realism, and u must be smart in this 
 game to not get blasted by a machine gun or picked off by a rifle. this is most realistic game 
 ive ever played. The sound is PERFECT, and the variety of weapons and infantry classes is also 
 great. All in all, i feel it was a well 23 dollars spent, and that any fans of world war 2 realistic 
 shooters should definately consider this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gijas
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 19, 2006 10:14 pm PT
Review:  I am an avid fan of this game. First the MOD then this but since I'm not a noob I can acurately 
 say with out a doubt that this is not like the original MOD was say about a year ago or so. 
  
  Now, all the vets will know what I am talking about here. They have changed some things, some 
 for the better and some for the worst which is to be expected when you bring it from a humble MOD 
 to a full-fleged game the public can buy on the store's shelves. The worst is that they seem to 
 have catered to the "nooby" crowd giving them more vehicle maps with large-scale-tank battles via 
 BF42. That's great in all but for us vet's who loved this game for the infantry combat, meaning 
 gritty close quaters type of combat, it's not a good thing. We now have lost the once great map 
 called "Danzig", one of my favorite Urban Combat maps and others such as "Kotos44" (forgive if 
 I miss-spelled) so there is some loss here. The weapons for some reason seem less acurate than 
 they used to be but they may be more realistic for all I know about them. The vehicles seem to 
 be over-powered and too plettyful on the vehicle maps (Arid) so there is some change that I have 
 noticed. 
  
  On the good side, I now like other vet's have an huge advantage when playing this game because 
 we know what to do and what not to do to get ourselves killed. I think I had the highest kill-score 
 ever playing ROOST on the first night killing many and it seemed way to easy for me. In the original 
 RO-MOD if you had a high kill-rate it was considered that you were really good and had many-many 
 hours of playing time under your belt because the MOD was extremely hard to get the hang of. This 
 game is a comabt similator though, which is why many "neebies" hate this game, it's not COD 2 guys! 
 This isn't a run-and-gun style game unless you play against the bots and even they have improved 
 greatly from the down-right stupid and boring bots the original MOD had so take it or leave it 
 just don't complain that the gameplay is lousy because it simply isn't a true statement. It will 
 take you some time to learn how to play right and like college, this isn't for everyone that even 
 play's FPS all the time but be patient and you'll learn the in's-and-out's of this wonderful war 
 similator blowing up tanks, gunning down men left and right ect.. This is not a game keep in mind, 
 it's a real war!
  
  All in all, not like the old days of glorious RO-The MOD but it will do for now until they get 
 some more infantry maps out to us vet's and noob's alike eg. "Danzig and Kotos44" so take your 
 notes "Trip Wire".
  
  Signing out: "Blitzkrieg" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adolecent
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 16, 2006 9:37 pm PT
Review:  First off, people are saying theres bugs and its slow and stutters. Well I was reading a review 
 on IGN earlier today and this guy said it ran bad, well he was running it on a laptop, but said 
 he had a good one. His specs were a ATI Radeon Xpress 200 and 2.4ghz processor. Duh, it won't run 
 good on something like that. And you should know if its running bad, set it lower or take off uneeded 
 things. Mine ran slow at first but I lowered some things and I barely notice a diffrence in the 
 graphics yet it runs perfectly and loads quickly.
  The realism in this game is startling when you first start playing. Breathing in this game is one 
 of the most realistic breathing sounds in a game I've played. The gore in this game is pretty good, 
 meaning its gory.. which is good since war is horribly bloody. If you get hit with a arty shell, 
 you don't fly thousands of feet up in the air and fall down perfectly intact (Battlefield 2) You 
 get obliterated. You get hit with a nade? Your pretty messed up. Deathcam is good, when you get 
 shot or blown up, you experince it from your soldiers actual eyes, seeing your helemt, hands, whole 
 body. I got blew up by a tank and saw my legs blown off, my bloody hands in front of my face, blurry 
 vision, then blackness. Which brings up how good the motion blur is. Its amazing. When playing 
 this game with a friend it can provde hours of fun, especially on the tank maps, and maps with 
 many people and objectives to take. The maps are stunning and well put togather, offering a very 
 large scale on map to play on. The game can crash every know and then but it hasn't happned to 
 me. If you wan't to play a excellent FPS that breaks away from the mold of WW2 shooters out there, 
 then go purchase Red Orchestra now, it is defiently worth your time and money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: markrousseau21
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 16, 2006 7:52 pm PT
Review:  Great detail, some tough level layouts but once you get the hang of the game its hard to stop playing. 
 The layout hasn't been exploited for vehicles very much but what do you expect with war torn areas? 
 The graphics are great (a little dated since its with UT2004) and the sound is good but can be 
 a little choppy on slower computers. There is a great selection of levels with emphasis on different 
 play types (some more suited for vehicular combat, some more for infantry) . The weapons take some 
 getting used to as they are accurately inaccurate. Definitely worth the $20 and recommended for 
 fans of Day of Defeat or Battlefield! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killtek
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 16, 2006 11:53 am PT
Review:  I'm a CS: S addict that eventually wanted more than just a rush/twitch FPS experience. A month ago 
 Valve announced that ROOST would be avialable via Steam. I did some research on ROOST and from 
 what I read on the website the game looked promising, so I pre-purchased/loaded ROOST. Two nights 
 prior to release I rented a ROOST 32 player server from Clanservers. com and persuaded my clan members 
 to purchase ROOST.
  
  This is a message to all you *instant gratification* people (like myself) ...
  
  DO NOT judge 
 this game on your first game experience. My first night impressions where not good. I was like, 
 "what the hell is going on, this is **** etc...
  
  The second night I had a great experience!! I actually witnessed teamwork!!! I actually felt like 
 I was in a movie (Enemy at the Gates, Stalingrad by Joseph Vilsmaier) . The maps in this game are 
 well designed, the atmosphere and ambient noises are just perfect, it definitely sets the mood 
 of the map.
  
  As you play the maps more and use the weapons more you'll appreciate the game more. 
  
  Give 
 this game time, you will LOVE it!!! 
  
  To the noobs: be patient and learn the game, once you learn it you'll kick yourself for all the 
 bad things you said about the game the first 30 mins you played it :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: unagolf
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 16, 2006 8:19 am PT
Review:  I have heard multiple people knocking the game because of the graphics, but I am a huge graphics 
 whore and I see no problem with the graphics. The don't look quite as good as cod2 but that does 
 not mean that they suck. This game runs much smoother than the graphics in cod2. Also they have 
 such large maps that they couldn't afford to waste memory on some many textures. But the main reason 
 i bought this game was for a more interest and exciting gameplay style and I delivered. The gameplay 
 is awesome IF YOU WORK AS A TEAM. This is the most important point of the game that you have to 
 work as a team. If you do not then you will be in for a long night of losing.
  
  A big THUMBS up for this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 2o35
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 15, 2006 2:36 pm PT
Review:  Red Orchestra, having just been released on Steam, is very controversial at the moment from all 
 of the opinions of Counter-Strike: Source players. However, if you are willing to try different, 
 unique games and if you're patient then you will find yourself enjoying this game.
  At first I personally didn't like the game, I thought it was an "el-cheapo" version of Call of 
 Duty 2, but if you're patient you'll notice it's quite different.
  
  Probably the best features of this game are the realism; you aren't give lots of information on 
 how much health you have or how much ammo you have or where other players are on the map. That's 
 real. Back in WWII you wouldn't have been able to tell on a map where your teammates are. Damage 
 is fairly realistic in this game; if you get hit in the head you die, if you get hit in the chest 
 you usually die. The realism in this game is something different than other games, but once again, 
 if you let it grow on you you'll find that it's pretty cool.
  
  One of the most unique features is probably using vehicles. Once again, with realism, this is very 
 different than driving in other games. You don't have the ability to have a third person view because 
 thats fake. You can however open your hatch to look out and stuff, but that also leaves you in 
 danger. It's a cool feature.
  
  And probably one of the other good things about this game is the shooting. Also real. In order 
 to actually have accuracy you have to pull the gun to your face. You can't just shoot randomly. 
 And there are no cross-hairs. Only the rail on your gun. The realism is there and it's very different, 
 and more challenging than other games, but it grows on you and becomes rather fun.
  
  Also, another cool thing is that there is a large variety of levels in the game. Some are really 
 very big with just large open battlefields and others are small little towns. It's good if you 
 have a love for a certain type of weapon like a sniper then you find a good map for sniping, or 
 if you like driving tanks you find a large map with fields and tanks.
  
  Besides all the realistic game play however, there are some not so great things. For example: When 
 you throw a grenade and it hits the ground, there are no physics. The grenade doesn't have momentum, 
 it just sticks to the ground instantly like a magnet. Also, the sprites are a bit weird; like when 
 a person is throwing a grenade or walking they look kinda funny like robots, they have no expression 
 of a person... it looks a bit odd. Besides that, one of the only other things I don't like about 
 the game is that the frame rates are rather poor: it's not smooth movement on the screen like Day 
 of Defeat: Source or Counter-Strike: Source. And it isn't a graphics problem for my computer, even 
 on lowest graphics it isn't entirely smooth. It's just the way the game was designed.
  
  So in all, once you get over the little flaws that you might find, the game starts to grow on you. 
 I didn't like it at first but after playing for a few hours I started enjoying how unique it is, 
 how it's exciting because it's different than any other game I've played. I would recommend this 
 game if you like Day of Defeat: Source or Battlefield 1942... But if you're looking for an easier, 
 more usual game thats more popular you should stick with Call of Duty 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yo_Guy
Rating: 3.6
Date: Mar 15, 2006 12:42 pm PT
Review:  Red Orchestra was supposed to be a groundbreaking, WW2 shooter which was supposed to be a game 
 that would be able to compete with such great games as COD2 or DOD: S with its "realistic" gameplay, 
 while in many ways the game does accomplish realism, just because something is realistic does not 
 mean its fun. Now, alot of people say that "Its the gameplay, not the graphics!" but hey, if you 
 want to make a realistic game, dont use **** outdated, unrealistic looking graphics. The game, 
 to say the least, looks like shit, I feel like Im playing return to castle wolfenstein. The graphics 
 are blurry for some reason, so I guess the game would be realistic, if you are playing as a soldier 
 who has cataracts. 
  
  In addition to the shitty graphics, the game has several little problems which take away from the 
 whole realism thing: bullet holes in the environment, dissapear right before your eyes! within 
 seconds, the bullet decals are gone! Whats to realistic about that! I even went into the menu and 
 set the decal time to its highest, but to no avail. If you are aiming for realism, dont leave stupid 
 shit like this in the game. I also fired several shots into the water, which also looks like shit, 
 when shooting water, it gives the same effect as shooting a wall or plain ground.... yeah... so realistic. 
 Its little things like this, that make the game looks really stupid and lets be honest, make it 
 look like an amateur mod, which it is, not a retail game, which they are selling it as. 
  
  One thing I can say is good about this game, is the weapon reload animations which are superb! 
 However, the melee animations are quite weak and flawed. 
  
  I also feel that the game focuses way to much on tanks, every server I join, all the players are 
 using tanks, I have played for hours and have yet to engage in man to man combat with my gun! The 
 maps are also way to big, and unless you join a laggy 32 man server, there is no point in playing, 
 cause it will suck ass. 
  
  If you plan on buying this game based on the amazing looking trailer, dont make the same mistake 
 I did, its not worth it. Like many other people, I bought this game based on the trailer, and ended 
 up sorely dissapointed. I really wish I could get my money back. To sum up this game: realism that 
 isnt really "real" and totally outdated graphics.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: scorsaro
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 15, 2006 9:39 am PT
Review:  Well, I must say. As a fan of realism in FPS, I am quite satisfied with this game. There are a 
 few areas that can be cleaned up by modders and stuff like that, but overall, it is a solid game. 
 It may not appeal to your typical "run and gunners", but those who appreciate realims, and not 
 bunny hopping noob fests, will love this game.
  The graphics aren't anything to shake a stick at, but they aren't bad to where you can't play the 
 game. There are nice lighting affects when firing your weapon. I really like the way they made 
 the wheatfelds and grass. The maps are very atmospheric and actually look like you are in battle. 
 The particle effects of the artilelry, mortars, and gernades are something I really noticed. They 
 are presented very well and look awsome, (especially the artillery at a distance.) The only thing 
 I would like to see is a bit more detail in the wider open fields. The water looks pretty good 
 on some levels, but others its just a gray, flat surface. But all in all, the graphics are very 
 nice , and at some times, even beautiful given the age of the engine.
  The controls are fairly simple to use if you play any other FPS like DOD, COD, or CS. They are 
 fully customizable, so anything you feel is too cumbersome can be changed. I really like how you 
 have to manually cock your bolt action rifles. It can get a bit tricky to remember to manually 
 recock the rifle, but its a realism feature that I think is awsome. Small little realism things 
 like that are seen throughout the game. The dive feature is a cool little added bonus as well. 
 You can dive into trenches to avoid fire, or dive over low lined fences. Run and gunners, don't 
 expect to be satisfied with the aiming system. There are things called ironsights. They were put 
 there for a reason, learn to use them. It has a nice feature to limit bunny hoppers. It has a stamina 
 system. If it gets to high, you can pretty much only walk. Running and jumping are all things that 
 add to your subtraction of stamina. At first, learning to aim and get a successful hit can be a 
 bit tricky, but after about 30 minutes it came as second nature to me. The run feature is awsome. 
 Compared to COD and DOD, where you can run for only seconds at a time, here you can run for about 
 20 seconds. Comes in handy when you are trying to outrun mortar and artillery attacks.
  The maps are one of the games strong point. These are some of the best, funnest, and coolest maps 
 I've seen in WWII FPS's. The maps are huge and are filled with trench systems, wheat fields, farms, 
 bombed out buildings, warehouses, and statue monuments. They are very nice and designed well. Maps 
 of this nature do well to to emphasize on team work. Since they are so big, running around by yourself 
 can get you a few kills, but will not compare to running around in a small squad. 
  The sound is another one of the games' strong points. To simply put it, the sound effects are awome. 
 The bark of mg42's, the sound of mortars incoming, and the sound of soldiers getting hit are awomse. 
 Like I said, incoming mortars are especially awomse. You can hear them whisteling through the air 
 and you catch yourself praying they wont hit you. The explosions are awsome and ground rattling. 
 There are character taunts as well. I didn't really notice any weak spots in the sound. Overall, 
 the sound is awsome.
  Fun factor-wise, this game has it. The game makes you feel like you are actually part of a battle. 
 The feel of running across a field under heavy mg fire is something I have yet to experience on 
 any other FPS's. It is quite satisfying after you get a long range kill with a bolt action. If 
 realims is your thing, this game will keep you glued to the screen for hours and hours. But if 
 you are a run and gunner/ bunny hopper, you will want to stay away from this one.
  This game is very good in my opinion. It wasnt quite as good as what I expected, but nevertheless, 
 I am still very satisfied. The overall experience you get from this game, is a realistic yet fun 
 and satisying one. If you are into COD, or DOD and realism, this game is for you. The servers were 
 very populated on the very first hour of launch. The community looks to be a big, solid one with 
 this game. Thus opening up alot of possibilites with Units and leagues.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: PoetWarrior
Rating: 6.7
Date: Mar 15, 2006 6:43 am PT
Review:  Not impressed. Graphics and player movement feel and look 2 years old. Hard looking at game after 
 playing DOD: Source. Not awful and I have played alot worse. Would recommend if there was no BF1942 
 or COD or DOD. The battle was not in your face like i thought it would be. Environments are static, 
 water looks like ice. Should have stayed a free mod. Just an out of date game using an aging graphics 
 engine. I am sick of watching game footage that looks awesome but does not even come close. I will 
 not buy a game unless I get a demo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mastercleft
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 15, 2006 4:49 am PT
Review:  This is dfenitly the best online ww2 shooter out there. It has plenty of amazing elements. But 
 first let me state the main problem, the controls are scattered all over the keyboard in crappy 
 places so you have to reconfigure them which takes like ten minutes but other then that it's amazing. 
 First is that it's realistic, this pulls it apart from other online shooters for instance day of 
 defeat. DoD is an excellant game (i've played source) but that's more run and gun and you don't 
 need your team as much. In this your team is the ultimate resource. This game requires that you 
 use the team. If you try and be the team hero you will not suceed. Secndly it has plenty of excellant 
 maps. There are about 12 maps. Each map covers a part of ww2 that the russians fought. And finnally 
 the graphics and sound. The sound, oh my god!, it's freakin amazing. First of all the voice overs 
 are excellant, theya re actually russian and german and sound superb. The weapons there eveen better 
 when playing this it feels like your fighting on the russian front. And the graphics. IF you can 
 run this game on high settings, which i did, it looks superb. It has a few flaws, but it's easy 
 to look past them, when an update is released they'll be fixed. And that bull about buying off 
 steam don't listen. Once you buy it just vertify game cache and it's up and running. So go buy 
 this you'll be certain to be pleased. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AceSnyp3r
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 14, 2006 10:27 pm PT
Review:  If you consider games like DOD: S and Battlefield 2 realistic, or if you can't stand a shooter without 
 a crosshair, stop reading. Go play something else.
  
  If you appreciate realistic shooters along the lines of Operation: Flashpoint, then you'll almost 
 certainly like RO: Ostfront.
  
  - Gameplay -
  
  The gameplay is top-notch, after being refined over the years of the mod, it's reached a state 
 of great balance and fun. The devs actually listen to the community, too, and have already fixed 
 a number of gameplay issues that were generally unliked.
  
  A few important features, before I go on: there is no crosshair. If you want to shoot at something 
 accurately, you need to use your sights, as you would in the real world. Also, any wound that would 
 realistically incapacitate a soldier is considered a death. A rifle round in the chest? Dead. Bayonet 
 in the face? Dead. Use of cover is mandatory, and fortunately, the war torn eastern front is not 
 short on trenches, craters, and debris. No ammo counter. If you're using a rifle, count your shots. 
 Using an SMG/MG, time it to get an idea of how much you have left. 
  
  Movement is very well done, and feels quite good. If you've played Flashpoint, you'll recognize 
 it right away. The player is relatively slow in comparison to CS/DOD, but you can sprint a limited 
 distance if you need to quickly run to cover. Prone, crouched, and standing are your 3 stances, 
 switching between them is handled much like OFP, AA, Planetside. Diving has been added, allowing 
 you to dive immediately into a prone position while running, should you come under fire or need 
 to hide from a grenade. Leaning is also in, allowing you to peek out around cover.
  
  Another excellent feature is the iron-sight popup. Whenever you toggle the sights to aim the rifle, 
 your player straightens up his back a bit, and exposes a bit more of his body, when the sights 
 are down, he ducks down a bit more. This is especially useful since many of the windows, sandbags, 
 and other cover are just the right height to use as full cover when unsighted, and to rest the 
 weapon on when sighted. 
  
  Weapon resting is another welcome new feature, allowing you to rest your weapon on any world object 
 to steady your aim. The best part, it's fully automatic too! All you need to do is set your weapon 
 so it looks like it's on top of the object from your view, a second later, your aim is steady and 
 very accurate.
  
  Machinegun deployment has never been easier, you need only find a suitable surface to deploy on, 
 then toggle the sights. No more getting stuck either. If the player moves, you automatically break 
 out of deployment and you can run away. 
  
  The HUD is very simple and minimalistic, granting you a compass, "paper doll" soldier to show where 
 you've been hit (though many hits are instant kills) , stamina meter, and number of clips remaining. 
 No minimap, player name popups, or the like that you'd be hard-pressed to relate to any sort of 
 real world counterpart.
  
  Vehicles are also in, and you BF2 junkies might think they're slow and unwieldiy, hate to break 
 it to you, but that's about how fast they really moved, and how fast their turrets really tracked. 
 They also have their armor modeled after the real thing. Angles of incoming fire are calculated 
 to find out what, if any, internal/critical areas it would damage (tracks, engine, ammo) , etc. 
 Depending on the angle and armor, your shots may just bounce harmlessly off the vehicle, so using 
 some smart maneuvering is quite important. There's no hitpoint system, so shooting a pistol at 
 a tank will do exactly what it should do. Still - I can't help but feel the vehicles are a bit 
 unpolished. Namely, the ability for passengers to immediately get in/get out, without any delay. 
 Which has killed more than one potential tank ambusher I'm sure. However, these are about the most 
 realistic true-to-life vehicles you'll find anywhere, so it's only a minor gripe.
  
  There's tons of other features I could ramble on about, but I felt these were the most distinguishing 
 and notable differences from other shooters, so I'll stop before I make this too long.
  
  - Graphics - 
  
  The graphics are either good, or terrible, depending on how picky you are. 
 It doesn't have million-polygon models, or normal maps on every single surface, but the artists 
 have done a fine job with what they have, and the end result is, in my humble opinion, the second 
 most realistic looking game to Half-Life 2. 
  
  Pixel shaders are used for the fanstastic blurring effects when bullets whiz by your head or a 
 grenade/artillery explodes nearby. This is an excellent solution to the problem of suppressive 
 fire - how to make the player feel in danger and somewhat hinder him, without forcing inaccuracy 
 and such. You will have a tough time aiming when there's artillery exploding everywhere, or you're 
 under a hail of machine gun fire, but if you know what you're doing, your shots will be just as 
 accurate as always.
  
  3-D iron sights and scopes are a staple of Ostfront as well, and I challenge you to find better.
 
  
  A "light bloom" effect is also in, but currently has some issues which will be patched later, until 
 then, not a great loss.
  
  The only reason I give this a 7 in the graphics department is that it's just not up to the level 
 of Quake 4, Source, UE3, etc., which seem to be more and more generally accepted as the "current-gen." 
 I, personally, have no complaints at all though.
  
  The advantage of UE2.5, still, is that it's very scaleable. Unlike some of the new source engine 
 games, people with PCs a few generations old can still enjoy Red Orchestra to it's fullest.
  
  - Sound -
  
  Ahh, sound! An area where the game truly excels! Every weapon sound in the 
 game was recorded from the weapon itself, or the closest one they could get (MG3 for MG42, for 
 example, which are pretty much the same) . Tank cannons are loud and massive, whizzes and snaps 
 of bullets flying by, the whistle of incoming artillery shells, all fantastic, and up to par with 
 the best games around. Distant sounds of weapons also exist, and as you get further from a weapon 
 it... sounds different... because it's further away. I have a hard time explaining it, but it's very 
 well done, very convincing.
  
  Ambient sounds are used to great effect as well, with the thumps of distant cannon and the report 
 of machine guns, it sounds just as a war zone should.
  
  - Value - 
  
  While the true value and life of RO: Ostfront has yet to be seen, the developers are already working 
 on new content, patches, maps, you name it. The game also has a strong community of modders from 
 the days of old, and you can be sure that conversions and remakes of some of the community's classic 
 maps and mutators will not be far behind.
  
  A number of leagues are already in place for Red Orchestra, and many of them are coming over to 
 Ostfront, including Battle for Europe, and Team Warfare. So if you're longing for some organized 
 gaming action, you'll find it here quite easily.
  
  Also, before I forget, the game is only $25 ($29 for boxed version) , quite a steal for a game of 
 this caliber.
  
  - Reviewer's Tilt - 
  
  While there may be some minor (and I do emphasize minor!) issues, and the graphics may be a tad 
 dated, the presentation and assembly of the package is top notch. All the elements work together 
 for the most immersive, realistic, atmospheric, and fun shooter I've played in a long time. It 
 breaks the online FPS mold again for the first time in a long while, and succeeds magnificently.
 
  
  - Final Thoughts - 
  
  A truly excellent game on every level, but it may not be for everyone. If you aren't quite sure 
 about it, wait for the demo. I've seen many players come from their arcade-style Battlefield 2 
 and Counter-Strike homes, and not care for Red Orchestra's style of play at all. But, if you long 
 for realistic, intense combat - buy Red Orchestra, you won't be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hottosexy
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 18, 2006 8:32 pm PT
Review:  I just played the retail version today and I have the same opinions as when I played the beta. 
 I first picked up RO when it came out for the Unreal Tournament 2003 and have been hooked on it 
 since. The game feels and plays alot more smoothly than the mod did and they were able to add in 
 alot of interesting features that make this game very unique. There are some areas that could use 
 improvement mainly some of the animations and some features on the tanks, but overall the game 
 is very solid. Im gonna go through the 5 categories and give my impression on each one.
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay this game has to offer is top notch. This is one of the few games that has 
 near perfect gameplay, and it is one of those games that really sucks you into the action. I have 
 honestly never felt so immersed in a game and TW did a awesome good at getting the gameplay built 
 up. There are tons of features that this game has that will make you feel as if you are actually 
 in a war not just playing a game. This is one area where the game truely shines and deserves 10 
 points.
  
  Graphics: The graphics on this game when compared to other games based on the Unreal Engine 2.5 
 are very very well done, maybe not the best out there but they are very good, especially some of 
 the first person models. The game has nice player models and the maps are very real, they truely 
 feel like something out of a war zone. The animations are good except the walking and running animations, 
 the model looks kinda off for those and some other character actions look kinda weird. When this 
 game is compared to other games based on more recent engines the graphics obviously dont look that 
 great since the UE 2.5 is old by most standards but when compared to other games based on the UE 
 2.5 engine, they are well done, could use some work in certain areas like animations, but on the 
 textures, models, etc are very well done. Therefore I gave it 9/10 points for graphics
  
  Sound: This is another area that truely shines in the game. The sounds are some of the best that 
 I have heard in a while, they really add to the immersion of the game. The game does a very good 
 job with all the other weapon sounds both near sounds and distant sounds, and also has a very nice 
 ambient sound. The distant sounds sound very realistic and not just the same sound but toned down 
 to sound like its coming from far away.
  
  Value: I have been playing this game for about 2+ years now and I cant say it has ever gotten old. 
 The great thing about this game is the replay value for this game is very high and it does a good 
 job of keeping you wanting more. In addition the developers have promised to keep updating this 
 game with new content through steam. It should also be noted that this game is for more mature 
 gamers, this isnt going to be COD or DOD. The only thing RO has in common with these two games 
 is that its is based on WW2, other than that this game is in a completly different league and making 
 a comparison between RO and the two other mentioned games is futile
  
  It could use some tweaking in some areas such as the long loading times, animations, and there 
 are some critical errors that are giving people a hard time (but really what release doesnt have 
 its share of bugs) , but luckily with steam they can update whenever and make the improvements more 
 fluid instead of having to wait to make one big patch. All in all this game is very solid and Im 
 sure it will get better with time. At first it may take some time to get use to but if you persist 
 and you keep on trying you will appreciate this game for what it is. 
  
  Another positive thing about the game is that the developers are great people who listen to what 
 the community wants and tries to implement as many community suggested ideas as possible. They 
 also spend lots of time communicating with the community via the forums, IRC, and even playing 
 in game. The RO community is also top notch.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Solid_Alexei
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 14, 2006 3:56 pm PT
Review:  I was waiting long for this game... And then its finaly came out I was pleased with the final result. 
 The maps are vast and different from each other. There is green plains and ruined cities. The gameplay 
 is not that fast as the one in Day of Defeat but it feels more war-like. There is more possibilities 
 for command and tactics. But becouse of maps are so huge this game should be played on the big 
 servers with 32 people or something like that. Then Red Orchestra feels like a real war movie!!:-D
 
  The graphics are pretty good! Unreal 2.5 Engine does the job well! The vehicles models are stunning! 
 The animation is even better! The soldiers move and die like real people:) The gore level is also 
 huge! You can blow enemy soldier into pieces by the granate or bazooka. There was one time when 
 I shot my enemy with the anti-tank piercing round and it blowed him in two parts AND the guy behind 
 him! lol 
  The sound is great. The voices and sounds of explosion and gunfire diminishe at long distance. 
 When bullets fly past you the screen gets bloored and the sound bounces in your head. 
  The other cool feature is fully 3D interior of the vehicles. You can turn your head inside the 
 tank and see the instruments and stuff inside. You can open the window and look outside, you can 
 open the cannon hatch and look outside scoping the battlegrounds! It all adds more stunning realism 
 to the gameplay:)
  So, if you are a lover of WWII games then this game is definitely made for you:-D Buy it, enjoy 
 it, live it!
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
