-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Republic: The Revolution
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/republictherevolution/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep  2, 2003
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.9
Critic Score: 6.7, 32 Review (s)
User Score: 6.8, 406 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Eidos Interactive
Developer: Elixir Studios
Genre: Real-Time Strategy
Date:     Aug 27, 2003 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Overly linear missions and noninteractive 3D action get in the way of the deep political strategizing 
 of Republic's later levels. 

  Politics abhors a vacuum, and after the fall of the Soviet Union, there were plenty of strong men 
 willing to step up and lead newly independent republics -- like Novistrana. In this fictional state, 
 the democratic process lasts but a single election. President Karasov shows his true colors within 
 weeks, declaring himself president for life, instigating mass arrests, and outlawing all opposing 
 political parties. Most wouldn't dare stand up against such a figure, but that's exactly the job 
 you're charged with in Elixir's Republic: The Revolution. It's prime territory to move beyond the 
 kosher politics of stately fundraisers and television issue ads and get your hands dirty with propaganda 
 campaigns, slanderous attacks, and targeted violence. It's just too bad that overly linear missions 
 and noninteractive 3D action get in the way of the deep political strategizing of Republic's later 
 levels.  

          The fictional republic of Novistrana has been taken over by a dictator. Will you depose 
 him?     

  The core game is quite free-form and consists of winning grassroots support, gaining political 
 capital, and undermining opposing factions, but there's no getting around having to do missions 
 to advance the story and, eventually, decide the fate of Novistrana. A new game kicks off with 
 a questionnaire to determine your character's base stats and political leanings and then drops 
 you in the small provincial city of Ekaterine, where your budding faction has some clout in a single 
 district. There isn't a dedicated tutorial section to explain basic concepts like how the district 
 colors (red, blue, and yellow) match up with their political leanings (force, influence, and wealth) 
 or how gaining control over these districts earns you the game's three corresponding resources. 
 You'll have to read the manual for that. But, accompanied by some static in-game screens to explain 
 the interface, the early missions do guide a new player through some of the steps necessary to 
 grow from these very humble beginnings to become a dominant force in the city.  

  Republic doesn't adopt standard game conventions, so it can take some work to learn the game's 
 interface and figure out what's involved in playing it. There are two main views: A 3D view of 
 the large clockwork cities lets you zoom in on any of the buildings, cars, or inhabitants, while 
 the 2D overhead view makes it easier to schedule and track actions throughout a city. Even though 
 the 3D close-ups are clearly more visually appealing, the vast majority of the game is actually 
 played in the overhead view, which provides essential information, such as the support levels each 
 party enjoys in a given city district, the locations of operatives, and much more.  

  The overhead screen is also the only practical way to use "actions," the selection of abilities 
 that each faction member possesses. Actions are the very core of the game. Many come with intriguing 
 or forceful names like "honeytrap," "easy life," "intimidate," "riot," and "crime syndicate," but 
 the majority feature bread-and-butter political activities like leafleting, organizing rallies, 
 or instigating passive protests. In later parts of the game, you can have up to six agents simultaneously 
 engaged in various activities all over a city, and to keep things manageable, executing actions 
 is a pretty hands-off process. All actions are scheduled ahead of time, in the daily planner interface 
 that pops up at the bottom of the screen, with each day divided into three time segments (morning, 
 afternoon, and night) . As long as you have the resources, you can queue up as many actions as you'd 
 like, but the need to react to the changing political atmosphere can undercut long-range plans. 

  At normal speed, each eight-hour phase lasts about four real-time minutes, so there's plenty of 
 time to drop into the close-up view and take a look around the city. It's easy enough to jump right 
 to the locations of your agents -- or even to members of opposing factions that you've identified -- and 
 watch them execute assigned actions. Most of the time there isn't much to do, and only exceptional 
 events are animated in an entertaining way. Some actions do provide a slider at the bottom of the 
 screen that lets you tweak, say, the sort of rhetoric used at a rally. But this option appears 
 for such a brief time that it's easy to miss if there's anything else going on, and, in any case, 
 the benefits aren't terribly apparent. Fortunately, if there's not much going on in a given phase, 
 it's possible to speed the game time up considerably. Sometimes we still wished for an end-turn 
 button.  

          The 3D scenes are mostly noninteractive, but the conversation game lets you influence the 
 course of recruiting debates.     

  The one and only critical activity to monitor in 3D is what Elixir calls the "conversation game," 
 a minigame that plays out like a card-game duel. This duel determines the success or failure of 
 many recruitment actions as well as a number of story-critical efforts that otherwise involve convincing 
 someone to help the cause. The point of it all is to reach a certain threshold -- which is determined 
 by the relative abilities and levels of the political resolve, or loyalty, of dueling characters -- and 
 there's some basic strategy involved in figuring out how to divide up the points and play them 
 most effectively. It's not hard to figure out the patterns the computer usually uses, but there's 
 enough variety to keep things somewhat interesting. But it is too bad that the 3D characters speaking 
 the game's made-up Russian-like language don't react at all to what's going on in the minigame. 

  For as much challenge as the free-form side of the game can offer, it can take more time to get 
 through the linear missions than it does to hit upon a winning strategy and gain the support in 
 most of a city. The story unfolds with a few scripted sequences that act out the president's rise 
 to power and his despotic acts, and there's a series of newspaper clippings and memos to explain 
 what's really going on. But the memos from your mentor and lieutenants are not just there for some 
 context -- mostly they throw up hoops to jump through. As major plot points, some missions sound 
 pretty cool -- there are jail breaks, raids on rivals, rigged elections, reluctant benefactors, and 
 plenty more. In practice, however, they just involve using the ordinary range of actions for very 
 narrowly defined goals. To add some extra challenge, a memo doesn't always quite say what the mission 
 is about, but fortunately there's a summary screen to spell things out more clearly.     

  A number of missions will have you hunting and clicking around the 3D world for people or clues 
 that are essential to advancing, but to succeed these missions, you'll have to have a solid grasp 
 on how the multistep process of such investigation works. Gathering intelligence and spreading 
 misinformation is one of the game's more interesting concepts, and cutting through the "fog of 
 war" involves doing investigation actions that increase your general knowledge of a certain area 
 (this level decays over time to keep investigating agents busy) . With sufficient intelligence, 
 you'll see exactly where opponent actions are taking place and, very importantly, also be able 
 to click around for the "dig deeper" bubbles that pop up when there's something extra to investigate. 
 Getting the dirt can take an extra turn, since you have to have an agent investigating that very 
 district when you click on the building. The system isn't obvious at first, but it's absolutely 
 necessary to advance through the game.  

          Gaining a solid grassroots political base means more resources to use for actions.     
 

  Ekaterine is just the jumping-off point on the way to the president's mansion, and the later two 
 cities are considerably larger and more interesting. At each transition, there's the choice of 
 which lieutenants to leave behind to watch over this power base and send resources along to your 
 operations in the next city. In the second city, you'll meet more powerful individuals to recruit. 
 That doesn't mean longtime agents have to be cast aside, since they will also gain levels over 
 time and earn new abilities related to their character class.  

  The late-game abilities are mostly extensions on the basic actions that cost more to use, but fortunately 
 many have a wider, even citywide, area of effect, which radically simplifies the process of gaining 
 support -- if you have the resources. It's also possible to "dig deeper" and find hidden characters 
 that have particularly rare abilities, like "hit man." As you'd expect, this action puts a contract 
 on an opposing agent -- but it's surprisingly hard to use. The big hurdle is to know all the target's 
 actions (perhaps seven or eight for a high-level target) , which means he had to use them in districts 
 you had under close surveillance.  

  This high threshold is an example of how little permanent violence the game actually has, for all 
 the vandalism, assault, and blackmail a force-centric character might unleash. Sitting through 
 the 3D sequences that illustrate such actions, there are plenty of instances where violence is 
 played for comic effect, but more often the sequences feature blustering threats or menacing talk 
 (and gibberish at that) . Overall, it's dry stuff, particularly the serious political endeavors, 
 like having a priest get up on a soapbox to slander an opponent or having a gang stand on street 
 corners waiting for someone -- anyone, please! -- to walk by and take a leaflet. As rare as it is that 
 you truly influence 3D events as they unfold, it's even rarer to see characters react usefully 
 to the success or failure of an event.  

  The visuals can look quite good at any given moment. Buildings are rendered superrealistically 
 and look equally sharp at a distance and zoomed in, where you might get close enough to see details 
 like a variety of foods at different street vendors. The cities have a realistic scale, which makes 
 the Soviet architecture of institutional buildings look all the more imposing. In contrast to all 
 that detail, people have a caricatured look. But the way they move is what's really off-putting. 
 At the beginning of a phase with an important conversation, the camera will lock on an odd pathfinding 
 dance, with characters going out of their way on indirect paths before finally coming together 
 for a friendly salute. Such events aren't hand-scripted -- you pick the specific location -- and it's 
 obvious. Other story events display similarly awkward pacing, with drawn-out set-up shots of 20 
 seconds or more just showing cars rolling up and a few peripheral people getting out. It wouldn't 
 be quite so tedious except for the fact that the camera is locked for the least entertaining and 
 least interactive parts of these sequences.  

          Most of the 3D sequences are spoiled by glacial pacing, but there are some good moments 
 here and there.     

  For as large and complex as the city environments are, the game runs remarkably smooth -- if you 
 have a good enough system. At the normal game speed, the game was playable on a PC near the minimum 
 specs -- 512MB of memory and an 800MHz CPU -- but once you speed things up to end turns, the interface 
 becomes unresponsive. But a PC with lots of memory and a fast CPU (over 2GHz) can keep the power 
 on in Novistrana, with few performance hesitations. Still, we did encounter a minor technical issue 
 that had us saving and restarting the game periodically -- and, unfortunately, saving takes quite 
 a long time. As for the audio, the fake Russian often sounded as if lines from different actors 
 were edited together, undercutting whatever dramatic interest the dialogue might convey.  

  Republic is the result of lofty technical ambitions and sustained development delays. Unfortunately, 
 the huge clockwork 3D world that took so long to construct ends up as the least involving part 
 of the game. The core game, on the other hand, can be at times fascinating in its free-form simulation 
 of grassroots politics and utterly frustrating with its single-mindedly linear missions. Even if 
 the interface is a challenge to learn, the 2D presentation is as clear as could be, and gaining 
 traction in the later cities suitably rewards those with a clear strategy in recruiting key people 
 with complementary actions and then executing combinations of actions. Those looking for replay 
 value may appreciate the four difficulty settings, the several branching paths in the mission structure, 
 and the varying strategies for each of the three ideologies. But what would have been even better 
 is an open-ended sandbox mode to focus on the political competition and havoc that gives Republic 
 its best moments.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (18 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Star_Wars117
Rating: 5
Date: Jul 19, 2008 2:27 pm PT
Review:  Story: Your a Communist politcal activist trying to starts a revolution in your country. Your country 
 has just got a new corrupt facist president and you try to stop him
  
  Missions: Split into days. Bribe people, go to there houses pretty much do anything and everything 
 you can to get people to join your side and take down the president
  
  Controls: No real controls in the game. Just click where you want your friends to go and what you 
 want them to do. 
  
  Features: Great Graphics for its time, New gameplay, intresting story
  
  AI: The ai in the game trys to help you as much as it can and its pretty smart. They know when 
 your cause is bad they know what the president is doing is bad. They know your actions.
  
  Graphics: Pretty detailed graphics for its time. Detailed huge citys.. not GTA huge but still sizeable. 
 Very detailed enviroments.
  
  Audio: Voice acting is great even though it is all in Russian.
  
  Multiplayer: None
  
  
 Requirements: A little knowledge of politics and how to persuade people.
  
  The Good: The sound and the graphics
  
  The Bad: Horrible, unintresting gameplay. No real interaction 
 with people. You send your friends to do it while you just watch.
  
  The Ugly: You
  
  Replay Ability: None
  
  The Bottom Line: A game that should be good with its new and intresting 
 idea but just fails badly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MichaelMorbid
Rating: 3
Date: Mar 26, 2008 8:26 pm PT
Review:  we like this game. we do. then we hate it. we hate it so much.
  
  it's not a bad game... it's just not polished. we absolutely love the concept. the political strategy 
 game genre is comprised of a handful of titles and remains relatively unexplored. republic had 
 some potential that ultimately just wasn't fulfilled.
  
  the game play isn't too terrible, just not very fluid. it's an overly tedious process to do relatively 
 simple tasks. the management system is similar to gangsters: organized crime. as a rising revolutionary, 
 most of your time is spent scheduled actions in advance and doing the occasional discussion minigame. 
 beyond that, it's being forced to sit and wait out the entire day as one long cutscene to see if 
 the scheduled actions were successful.
  
  not sure what could have made it more fun. on the one hand, it's a relief that micromanaging has 
 been scaled back so one can have the distance required in orchestrating a strategy in the bigger 
 picture. on the other hand, there's just a lot of waiting around for the coin toss decision if 
 an action failed or succeeded.
  
  we love the idea. love the music, for the first few hours. graphics are decent. difficultly is 
 a little on the steep side exacerbated by the tedious gameplay.
  
  haven't beaten the game. played it for hours and hours and hours and hours and hours. one would 
 think that to achieve a goal after spending that long working on it would be satisfying. one would 
 be wrong. it's pretty much all guilt and no sex.
  
  the game may not be a 3.0... we'll concede that. it's just... it's a dirty dirty tease and we're 
 the jilted lover left with nothing but broken promises and stale candy. we love the game more than 
 the game loves us. it's heartbreaking... so yeah... there's probably a spite factor at work. 
 
  
  it is one of the few games that really disappoints us to the point where we don't want to write 
 it off as just a failed game, but we continually wish it were better. we've installed and uninstalled 
 this game a dozen times... it just promises more than it can deliver... which is a crying shame 
 because with more work a game like republic: the revolution could easily become one of our favorite 
 games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bap122385
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 14, 2007 9:18 pm PT
Review:  This game takes awhile to learn how to play, but once you get the hang of it, your set. There are 
 a few bugs playing it on windows vista, but that is to be expected, cause it is designed for previous 
 versions of windows.
  
  Graphics are not top notch, but considering the way the gameplay is it would be hard to put high 
 graphics with it. Personally I enjoy them, but that is for you to decide.
  
  The soundtrack for this game is awsome. The voiceovers are not bad either, this is one aspect where 
 this game truely shines.
  
  If you like strategy games I would recommend you try this game, because even though it has its 
 flaws, it is a great game.
  
  ~Undergrond 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hunter_44
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jan 20, 2007 1:46 am PT
Review:  Republic: The Revolution, is in that category of games that you really struggle to put in, well, 
 a category. It's truly a stand-alone game. First off, this is NOT a game for everyone. If you like 
 DEEP political strategizing and chess on about 20 different boards, you're going to love this game. 
 This may be the best political strategy game out there. There's been a lot of complaints about 
 this game's controls, and i'll tell ya, they're really confusing at first. The missions aren't 
 exactly straight forward, so you also spend a lot of time dinking around aimlessly. However, I 
 almost wonder if it was MEANT to be that way. The deeper you go without following the missions, 
 the more difficult the missions become. That's almost when the real fun begins. Once you get in 
 a groove with this game, it's an absolute gas, especially if you are a strategy wonk or political 
 junkie. You need to master local and national level strategies to do well in this game. From beating 
 your opposition silly with a massive PR campaign, to helping local busniesses that are friendly 
 to your cause stay open, to creating new members and brokering deals, it's all here. Even the nastiness 
 of politics are in there with all the fun of knee breaking and bribery. You really need to be able 
 to think about 20 things at once and even the menial decisions can end up being colossal in the 
 end. Plan too far in advance or fail to plan for the present, you get caught behind the eight ball 
 and scrambling to regroup is difficult, if in some situations, impossible. DIstricts change in 
 their idealogical swings, operatives turn on you, there's a lot all happening at once. It's awesome 
 in that respect.
  
  Those that pick this game as of this review (2007) , won't be blown away in the slightest with the 
 graphics. They're adequete. The musical score is excellent and adds to the mystique of the game 
 as well. The lay out and game play are a lot to overcome at first, but once you get used to things, 
 you do alright for yourself. This game is truly unique and in it's own world. Much like other games 
 like Killer 7, you really need to pick it up and try it yourself. You'll love it, or you'll hate 
 it. Plain and simple. If you're a politico like myself, you'll get a stiffy for this one in a hurry. 
 If not, the learning curve can be quite steep. The value of games like this are immeasureable in 
 terms of the educational value. You really get an idea of how difficult things can be for the suits! 
 This is a fun game once you teach yourself how to play and get used to it. Give yourself an hour 
 or two, and you'll find it hard to put down. Right now, this is going for around $5. You can't 
 go wrong. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: september_basic
Rating: 6.3
Date: Dec 26, 2006 10:22 am PT
Review:  I wish I could honestly give this game a higher score, but honestly I cannot tilt the game further. 
 It is in essence more valuable than most computer games presently available in subtle ways and 
 in the way that a book or a good old movie can be valuable. However, given the trash that is available 
 in the computer game venues, I can only assure you that only a few games stand aside Republic the 
 Revolution as good examples of game rendition. Warhammer 40000: Chaos Gate, Temple of Elemental 
 Evil, Alpha Centauri, Civilization 2, Medieval Total War, Rome Total War, Marathon 2, nethack, 
 Zork 3, Wishbringer for the Apple, The Prisoner, Ultima 4-7 -- these games are well structured 
 and not all are flawed jewels.
  
  Republic the Revolution has what most games do not: an indepth diplomatic model mixed with emotional 
 impact of harsher forms of intrigue, subterfuge, and covertion.
  
  Imagine if the SIms 2 were to focus an entire expansion pack on espionage and grassroots political 
 manuevering in a clime of economic and military instability, where elections and politics are played 
 by criminals and ruthless powerbrokers without ethic nor noble exception.
  
  Now, while Republic does not have the nicities of Sims 2 (but could well incorporate such interesting 
 gameplay) , this is a far grittier and more realistic version of revolution in its inceptions and 
 origins than shooter games can hope to portray.
  
  Yes, the game moves with odd sloth and the translations are bad, the muttered dialogue repeatitive 
 and annoying, I also find computer game battlecries boring after a time. The music is gorgeous 
 and the graphics can be pretty, but on most computers are bleak and silly.
  
  The worth in this game is in the gameplay to be sure, in hopes that it will be refined, but also 
 in hopes that some of what is demonstrated within this game is uptaken into other games to create 
 variety and realism.
  
  To digress, should some future developer think to combine gameplay found in Republic with gameplay 
 in a game like Alpha Centauri with life sim such as in The Sims 2 and battle like in FPS, they'd 
 have the makings of a wonderful MMORPG -- but sadly, the MMORPG offerings only skim the surface 
 of this sort of depth, and those that have attempted anything near such an amalgam are still in 
 juvenile stages of considering the latrine as fascinating because people keep walking inside it 
 (hence Everquest style MMO still rule) .
  
  I can think of several game genre that would benefit from diplomatic models, be they harsh or civil 
 (both even) , and with this in mind reconsider the use of really beautiful ideas that aren't executed 
 quite so wel.
  
  A pity Elixir went under -- they were a good company. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djnet
Rating: 5.5
Date: Feb 1, 2006 12:43 pm PT
Review:  The core game is quite free-form and consists of winning grassroots support, gaining political 
 capital, and undermining opposing factions, but there's no getting around having to do missions 
 to advance the story and, eventually, decide the fate of Novistrana. A new game kicks off with 
 a questionnaire to determine your character's base stats and political leanings and then drops 
 you in the small provincial city of Ekaterine, where your budding faction has some clout in a single 
 district. There isn't a dedicated tutorial section to explain basic concepts like how the district 
 colors (red, blue, and yellow) match up with their political leanings (force, influence, and wealth) 
 or how gaining control over these districts earns you the game's three corresponding resources. 
 You'll have to read the manual for that. But, accompanied by some static in-game screens to explain 
 the interface, the early missions do guide a new player through some of the steps necessary to 
 grow from these very humble beginnings to become a dominant force in the city. 
  
  Republic doesn't adopt standard game conventions, so it can take some work to learn the game's 
 interface and figure out what's involved in playing it. There are two main views: A 3D view of 
 the large clockwork cities lets you zoom in on any of the buildings, cars, or inhabitants, while 
 the 2D overhead view makes it easier to schedule and track actions throughout a city. Even though 
 the 3D close-ups are clearly more visually appealing, the vast majority of the game is actually 
 played in the overhead view, which provides essential information, such as the support levels each 
 party enjoys in a given city district, the locations of operatives, and much more.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: psp-rules1992
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jan 3, 2006 6:12 am PT
Review:  After the collapse of the soviet union the state of novistrana is thrown into dissaray. you play 
 a young man trying to gain enough support to rule novistrana.
  This game acctually takes alot of brains it is based on politics, taking differant parts of the 
 city and bringing powerful people into your faction to help overthrow the presidant and rule novistrana.
 
  It is very hard to get used to as there is no tutorial and they speak in russian, with no subtitles, so 
 you dont know whats going on really. The game is acctually very hard and the missions are a bit 
 boring, i didant even bother finishing this game. some people might like this game but i didant.
 
  The only good point is that the graphics are great.. its just a shame the rest of the game lets 
 them down.
  Luckily i bought this game in the sales..... some people were'nt so lucky.. need i say any more. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dbrownick
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 31, 2005 7:12 pm PT
Review:  This game was made for the more intelligent class, so if you are used to shot kill gore explosion 
 fast paced strategy games, of course, don't buy this game. This game take critical thinking, patience, 
 and time. Yes this game has flaws and troubles, but this game is meant for 16+ or for teens into 
 to the whole politics and Russian Communist thing. People **** and mone because it's to hard, and 
 true, there should have been a tutorial, a better tutorial, but the price of this game now (12/31/05) 
 is incredible, $4.99 New and $3.99 used, incredible. Try this game and you will learn. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cidhighwind100
Rating: 5.9
Date: Dec 20, 2005 12:27 pm PT
Review:  It takes an extemely long time to get accustomed to Republic the Revolution and even when you do 
 the gameplay isn't that rewarding. 
  
  The graphics are ok and some of the landscapes are quite impressive but it doesn't make up for 
 the linear and somewhat dreary missions that ensue. The cutscenes are quite nicely done, but the 
 camera angle really gets on your nerves and is fiddly to work with. The conversation idea was a 
 good one, but wait a minute...... to make sure it's realistic thy've got them speaking in Russian, 
 supposedly, which simply doesn't work and it can be confusing to know what to do next if your a 
 beginner to the game. 
  
  So basically it's a total waste of time playing this game as it takes so long to get anywhere, 
 and when you get there it's a dissapointing result - sigh, it spent so long in production as well.......................
 
  
  At least they tried something original, but it didn't pay off and I am seriously dissapointed in 
 something that could have been memorable - this will be forgotten, or at least I hope so, because 
 it's not something I want to remember. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mankvill
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 17, 2005 1:41 pm PT
Review:  Republic: The Revolution is a sim where you, a revengeful man who's parents were taken away from 
 him by the secret police when he was young, try to rise through the ranks to eventually overthrow 
 the leader of Novastrana, a fictional country that was created after the falling of the USSR. 
 
  
  This is a real-time sim where you start out with just yourself, but you can recruit members into 
 your faction. The gist of the game is to up your faction's popularity in different districts of 
 the current city by spreading your propaganda. Basically, you issue a command to one of your party 
 members, and they spend a turn doing that. Some actions gain influence, some decrease other faction's 
 influence, and there are even some special actions, such as roughing up a specific person to make 
 them shut their yaps, or even go so far as killing them.
  
  What Republic lacks, though, is a training mode of some sort, or intruductory sequence. I spent 
 a couple of days not even knowing what to do, but once you figure it out, this game is great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Everclearules
Rating: 6.8
Date: Mar 1, 2005 1:39 am PT
Review:  In Republic: The Revolution, you are trying to start a revolution (surprised?) with politics. Sadly, 
 this degenerates into a waiting game (and a long one at that) which really tests your patience. 
 
  
  The graphics are great for a strategy game. Cars drive around, people are walking everywhere; all 
 in 3D of course. The camera will give you different angles to check out what's going on in your 
 city. Unfortunantly, this game really has no NEED for graphics. Very few times will you ever need 
 to look at your city, since most of the time you'll be giving orders on an overview map. You can 
 see how your citizens feel, or just watch your characters performing their given tasks, certain 
 debates between characters can be seen as well; that consists of maybe 5% of the whole game, meaning 
 you need a decent computer just for 5% of the game. 
  
  The sound/music itself is nice, but the use of it is quite boring. The music is somewhat depressing 
 and hopeless, which shows you what the people are feeling at the time. However, the music, as with 
 the game itself, drags on and on, and doesn't give you any excitement at all. The sound affects 
 would be great if they sounded at the right time. Many times you'll hear a wonderful sound effect 
 and think to yourself, "What the hell?" since nothing happens for about 5 or 10 seconds to give 
 you an idea about what the effect was for. 
  
  I almost enjoyed the gameplay, but it just drags on and on for too long. Basically, you're struggling 
 to get as many citizens to your party as possible to complete missions, etc... In order to do this, 
 you can deploy your followers (anywhere from 0-5 + yourself, making at most 6 in all) on various 
 missions to raise your support, lower another parties support, raise one of your follower's morale 
 (called Resolve) , or lowering an opposing character's Resolve. Eventually you'll gain enough support 
 to complete a mission, and then you must gather up enough support to finish another mission. 
 
  
  That roughly consists of 90% of the gameplay, the rest is having your character meet people and 
 attempt to gain their favor (either to complete a mission or to have them join as a follower) . 
 In order to do this, you must succesfully 'debate' them, which is basically just a dice game. At 
 the beginning of the 'debate' you assign 4 cards a certain number based on how many points you 
 have. Once that's finished, you and your opposer use your cards to win points untill one of you 
 gets whatever your number is to win. To win points, the card you play must be higher than your 
 opponents card. In case of a tie, the points are given to the defender (a. k. a. not you) . Most of 
 the time this is just luck, since your opposer rarely has the same cards. 
  
  The game is turn based, but you only have a certain amount of time before the turn ends (about 
 a minute) . Each of your followers can do one action during a turn, which must be ordered BEFORE 
 that turn. You can give orders for all of the next turns (which can be deleted if something happens) 
 if you know you're going to be busy that turn (debating) . Unfortunantly, this results in numerous 
 moments where you'll be waiting a minute or so for the turn to end, often times at the beginning 
 of the game. Other times you'll be pressed for time since you had other things to do, and 6 people 
 to order around. It would have been much better if you could order when to end your turn, and there 
 might have been, I just never figured it out. 
  
  The manual and the tutorial do little to show you how the game works, so be ready to be confused 
 and annoyed for the first 30 or so minutes of the game. Many times throughout the game you'll be 
 told 'look at this screen' to which you'll wonder 'where IS this screen?', which of course the 
 game won't tell you. The manual is poorly labled which will result in you having to look through 
 just about all the pages to find out what you want. 
  
  This game could very well be fun if it was designed in a better way. Unfortunantly, in its current 
 state, you must have alot of patience and a like for games that feel like boardgames. If you do 
 not like that sort of stuff, or don't know if you do, I'd recommend for you to skip this game since 
 more than likely you'll just be dissapointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hobtar
Rating: 3.5
Date: Oct 28, 2004 7:09 am PT
Review:  This game was one of the biggest dissappointments for me ever. I had read many glowing previews 
 on the game and had overly high exectations, so I was expecting great game. When I got the game 
 however I found the game to be dull and unexciting.
  
  I will first go through the good points which I found very few of. The graphics are very good and 
 are used well when they are used. Thats all I can say about the game in the way of things I liked. 
 Now on to what I did not like.
  
  My first problem with the game is the lack good documentation on how to play the game, it can be 
 a pain and half to figure out whats going on at times. Next I hated how indirectly you controled 
 things, such as I wanted to actually play out the parts where I was supposed to hand out flyers 
 to increase my support. Also the language the people was like listening to a bunch of gibberish.
 
  
  In all I think this was a bad game for me, but I believe that a few other people that are not like 
 me would enjoy it.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: thore33
Rating: 7.6
Date: Sep 8, 2003 7:59 pm PT
Review:  After playing the game for a few days, I'm torn. On the one hand, I'm addicted. I spend hours playing... 
 the graphics are great, and the game is somehow very addicting. On the other hand, I am finding 
 that I am growing tired of its meticulousness very fast. The learning curve is very steep, and 
 does require several restarts to fully get the hang of the game. 
  
  One portion that is interesting is the conversation mode, which at first seems relatively hard, 
 but then becomes almost easy because the computer follows an obvious routine in allocating points. 
 
  
  I do feel this game could have been a lot better, and I'm not quite sure if it's money I feel well 
 spent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chrisart
Rating: 8.9
Date: Sep 7, 2003 8:01 am PT
Review:  I booted up Republic and found it very interesting, I usually like alot of different gametypes 
 and this is one of them. Im very picky about the games I play and there are some factors in Republic 
 that get pretty frustrating. Sometimes missions are very vauge on explaining what to do leaving 
 you there for hours with the turnout of turning the game of because you dont really know what to 
 do.
  
  Graphics of the game are really nice considering the high polycount and the massive ammount of 
 detail in each man/woman of novistrana. Overall if you get used to the layout and have the time 
 on your hands to use you brain alot. Then this game is definitly the computerized boardgame you 
 should be playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dlight
Rating: 5.5
Date: Sep 3, 2003 11:38 am PT
Review:  While I haven't played this game a lot, in fact it seems that Elixir wanted to make the game completely 
 hard to use and understand, I don't like it so much. The interface is clunky, there is no interactive 
 tutorial, the manual information has no real semblance of order. In all, this game bites! I can't 
 believe I wasted money on the game that was supposed to be "cutting edge." Mayube if this game 
 were released last year and had they not focused on the graphic engine, which is rarely used, and 
 focused on sound, interaface, tutorial levels, and better polish it might have been a MUCH better 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: debrislide
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 2, 2003 9:23 pm PT
Review:  These is not my normal arena. I'm a tried and true action fan but I'm always eager and excited 
 about a game that open's up and exposes new territory in my favorite passtime. Republic does this. 
 I'm not sure how i feel about it though. I saw the screen shot's on gamespot. I thought this was 
 a third person strategy game. WRONG ( i should have read the fine print) . this is a strategy game 
 through and through. Not like an rts where you feel really involved with the action. I mean don't 
 get me wrong you are in control. But in control, in a let's figure this out in the ba****t while 
 we pour over this map of the city sort of way. You are let out of the ba****t (not really a ba****t) 
 to see things unfold. The interactivity is just too minimal. but maybe i don't understand this 
 game. It is quite addictive though. Which I'm sure appeals to the time wasting gamer in me. I say 
 give it a try. Why not. I did, I will, I will do your bidding. I love games. They mess with my head 
 in the best way. If this review doesn't make any sense or help you I'm sorry blame it on republic. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: magogian
Rating: 8.3
Date: Sep 2, 2003 3:29 pm PT
Review:  Very interesting game. I have not beaten it yet, but I have gotten pretty far. First off, the graphics 
 are pretty decent. Nice game engine; however, it was not used as fully as it could have been. The 
 sounds are fun, I especially like how the characters speak in a Russian gibberish. They arent speaking 
 a real language, but it sounds like a Russian derivative. 
  
  Gameplay is good overall. It takes a while to get a hang off, but when you do, you'll love it. 
 The game has a very steep learning curve. It will take a few starts to get a hang of it. However, 
 this game is not for everyone. It requires thinking in a manner that most gamers are probably not 
 used to. Also, my one main gripe is that many actions tend to get repetitive towards the middle 
 and end of the game. It still is fun; however, it can seem to drag on. 
  
  In the end, I would recommend this to serious gamers and those interested in playing out their 
 own political thriller. Good game, I hope other developers give this relatively new genre a try. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jswallow
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 30, 2003 7:26 am PT
Review:  I've managed to lose track of time completely playing Republic. Totally absorbing game which immerses 
 you in the land of Novistrana. Plus points are the fantastic accompanying music, graphical details 
 and the infinite combinations of characters and their actions daily (I've restarted three times 
 while learning and the AI has been different every time) . Minus points are the very steep learning 
 curve (the tutorial is useless, reading the manual is a must) and I've encountered one complete 
 lockup and some dodgy mouse behaviour plus it does seem to take a while to load and save. On balance 
 though, an excellence purchase - my favourite so far this year. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
