-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Requiem: Avenging Angel
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/requiemavengingangel/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr 25, 1999
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.3
Critic Score: 7.3, 23 Review (s)
User Score: 7.9, 142 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: 3DO
Developer: Cyclone Studios
Genre: Action
Date:     Mar 31, 1999

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The pacing and story aren't as good as Half-Life's, but the character interaction and angelic powers 
 elevate the game beyond many other shooters. 

 Half-Life didn't usher in a new era so much as it showed us a glimpse of what the future holds for 
 3D shooters. While it would be unfair to ask that every game be as good as Valve's shooter, it 
 wouldn't be unfair to expect all shooters hence to have better stories and better design. Cyclone 
 Studios' Requiem: Avenging Angel isn't as compelling or universally appealing as Half-Life, but 
 it is a pretty good shooter otherwise. Its pacing, level design, and graphics ensure that it's 
 a typical 3D shooter, but the presence of some highly amusing angelic powers and the unique premise 
 take it near the top of the current crop of action games.  

 In Requiem, you play Malachi, an angel sent by God to stop the machinations of the Fallen, angels 
 who went against God's word and were cast out from Heaven eons ago. The evil outcast Lilith leads 
 them and has decided to snuff out all human life. She has sent her agents to Earth, who are possessing 
 Earth's leaders, rounding up the innocent, and using them to power a massive spaceship called Leviathan. 
 The plot won't win a Pulitzer prize, but it does set up the action uniquely. All you have to know 
 is that you are God's vengeance given form, and you must stop the Earthbound Fallen, while also 
 occasionally doing battle with a few boss Fallen in the realm of Chaos, the limbo that exists between 
 Heaven and Hell.  

 The game opens in Chaos, with you needing to find your way to the portal that leads to Earth. While 
 Chaos is supposed to house the many lost souls, it is amazingly empty. This problem persists throughout 
 the game. Certain levels are meant to be populated towns but are really just ghost towns with one 
 or two NPCs. The pacing of this game is fairly slow in the beginning but does ramp up to some very 
 intense action. Oftentimes, you'll find yourself getting ambushed from behind by half a dozen soldiers. 
 These enemies tend to appear out of thin air, but at least they keep the action flowing.  

 In many ways, Requiem is your average shooter. Its level design is straightforward, with few surprises 
 or branches. Some levels bog down due to an unintuitive puzzle or the need to fetch a key. If you 
 failed to pass by the crucial clue or pick up the vital keycard, you could be wandering around 
 in circles for a while. The plot, while unique in premise, doesn't really pick up until later in 
 the game. It isn't compelling from the start; you meet one NPC who tells you to complete a task, 
 and then you meet another who sets you up with a new mission. At this point, the gameplay is just 
 wandering around killing things for the sake of it, rather than toward a greater goal. However, 
 the story does become more prominent later and is helped along by an occasional cutscene.  

 What Requiem deserves praise for are Malachi's angelic powers. His normal weapons in the game 
 are unoriginal - the obligatory shotgun, machine gun, rocket launcher, sniper rifle, etc. - but 
 the angelic powers are something else entirely. The closest thing to them would be the Force powers 
 in Jedi Knight, but the powers in Requiem are more interesting and better implemented. They are 
 divided into different categories: offensive, defensive, maneuver, and interactive powers. Offensive 
 and defensive powers are very straightforward, as are the maneuver powers, but the interactive 
 powers include those that can be used to manipulate enemies in more exotic ways. You can possess 
 an enemy and move through him with the possession power or compel an enemy to fight for you with 
 insist.  

 The effects for most of these powers are quite spectacular. Enemies targeted by To Salt turn into 
 solid white salt statues and stand frozen for a fraction of a second before disintegrating into 
 fine white powder. Casting Time Warp conjures up images of the slow-motion action scenes in John 
 Woo movies or The Matrix. Time Warp slows time down all around you. Enemies not only move and fire 
 at half speed, but they also die in slow motion. In real time, a dead soldier would simply reel 
 backward and fall spinning to the floor. But with Time Warp, you'll see frame-by-frame animation; 
 he'll appear to float in the air, spinning around in slow motion, as the shells from your gun fall 
 to the ground like feathers.  

 You gain angelic powers at different, preset points in the game, although the acquisition is pretty 
 anticlimactic. You get a simple text message that says a new power is made available to you. Still, 
 the powers themselves are impressive, with plenty of great eye candy to go along with their in-game 
 effects.  

 The enemies and monsters consist of the typical human soldiers, a smattering of mechs, and a few 
 Fallen beasts for variety. The first Chaos level introduces you to a few Fallen creatures, but 
 then the next several areas are full of variously armored soldiers. They are well animated, especially 
 when they die, although the boxes and goodies flying out of their heads upon death can only be 
 described as silly. Even so, the enemies are among the better looking of the genre, being a step 
 up from the more boxy and unimaginative enemies of games like Sin and Redline.  

 Although the special effects and death animations are pretty good, the look of the game is pretty 
 bland. Even the otherworldly levels aren't too impressive. It's not so much that the Chaos levels 
 look bad, but they could have looked much better. The other levels are straightforward in appearance 
 and design. The levels that should be densely populated by neutral characters (like Chaos and the 
 town hub level) are strikingly empty. There is also a lack of interactivity in the levels throughout 
 the game, with hardly anything to blow up or manipulate.  

 The sound, unlike the graphics, has little to recommend itself. The voice acting for all the characters 
 is incredibly poor, and aside from the tinkling of bullets bouncing off the armor of heavy soldiers, 
 the rest of the audio is forgettable.  

 Overall, this game is a fine shooter. Its supposedly gripping plot is merely adequate. The game 
 is pretty linear, but then most shooters are. The pacing and story aren't as good as Half-Life's, 
 but the character interaction and angelic powers elevate the game beyond many other shooters. Then 
 again, Requiem also could have benefited from an integrated search for open Internet multiplayer 
 games in progress. It's a feature that shooters typically haven't had, but Half-Life, which raised 
 the bar in so many ways, had it. Requiem isn't a game that will duplicate Half-Life's critical 
 success and compel all forms of gamers to play it, but for shooter fans, Cyclone's game of fallen 
 angels is fairly well-crafted, albeit typical.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (2 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Gokunami
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 16, 2008 3:59 pm PT
Review:  Collect angelic powers as demons attempt to kill you. You were sent to handle a fallen angel. You 
 are heavens warrior. If you understand and know the bible you should love this game like me. You 
 were sent from heaven to stop the fallen angels army. You run around collecting your angelic powers 
 but the cool part is learning what does what. I think most gamers could truly relate to how well 
 this game was put together. I with this game came out for console but I still rocked it on the 
 pc. Follow God's decree and you will easily slay the enemy. Remember the force is with you Angel 
 of the Lord. The enemies I could visualize as real evil spirits. This game will take you where 
 no man has ever gone before. Take your bible and keyboard then you'll be properly armed and ready 
 for the good fight. May God be with you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: baazigar_2000
Rating: 1
Date: Mar 6, 2008 3:13 am PT
Review:  You know...... I thought thiw would be a real delight, having seen the box shots on the back cover..... and 
 quite scary as well.... but it just all seemed too artificla and wierd when I started playing.....
 
  
  The graphics rae the first thing which dissapoint me.... I have played games from 1997 that are 
 well rendered than this..... even the 2d ones from the SNES and Genesis years...... you should see 
 that state of the cross ahir.... it just looks like its been pencilled in as a last minute job....
 
  
  There is no music at all.... at least not in the first level of the game... all you hare are weird 
 sounds... whihc do seem chilling... but only for the first 10 seconds or so....... it just does not 
 make sense after a while....
  
  If you are using a gempad/joystik.... wahey!!!! You can actaully move the charter... but the selection 
 of things you can do e. g. weapons select or power usage.... is really not sweet.... u have to reach 
 out for the keyboard in the end, just to get to a pesky (poorly visible) ledge.......
  
  And talking about the first level.... aukh... what in the worlds all this movment about.... are you 
 inside the intestines of Moby Dick or something??? When you stand still for a few seconds (to take 
 a breather from all that keyboard tapping) the environemtn seems to chug in and out and all about..... and 
 you think what in the world is going on with me..... its worse when you are on the edge of a cliff 
 or something...... you just get shuffled off if you dont step back in time... only to be attatcked 
 by these things with potato peeler-like hands.....
  
  The enemies are weird..... but they did look quite scary on the boxshots... i guess i was so wound 
 up by the controls, that the scare factor just went out of the window and into the trash can... just 
 like this boring adventure..... and people tell me that games like Chaos Legion, Devil May Cry 2 
 and Turok Evolution are bad...... Earthsiege 2, Rise of the Robots 2 and Thexder were released before 
 this disasterous failure.... yet look at those beauties compared to this ugly mug..... talk about 
 insulting the sacred piety of angels, Lord help us all.......... 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
