-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Reservoir Dogs
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/reservoirdogs/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 It's got the Super Sounds of the Seventies.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Shooting missions are either criminally boring or clunky and frustrating, depending on how you play them.
 Driving missions are an exercise in frustration.
 Ugly graphics.
 Extremely short (actually, maybe that's a good thing).
 Story is a pale representation of the film's plot.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 25, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 4.6
Critic Score: 5.0, 18 Review (s)
User Score: 6.2, 323 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Eidos Interactive
Developer: SCi
Genre: Modern Action Adventure
Date:     Oct 24, 2006 &raquo;  
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Neither a good action game on its own merits, nor quality fan service, Reservoir Dogs is an out 
 and out failure. 

  As has been seen time and time again, messing with classic films for video game adaptations can 
 be a dicey prospect. Sometimes, against all odds, it works out, and you get something surprisingly 
 enjoyable. Other times, you get hollow action games that simply use a classic film as a crutch 
 to peddle unremarkable gameplay, and end up offending the very audience at which the game proclaims 
 to be for. Eidos Interactive's Reservoir Dogs falls distinctly to the latter end of the spectrum. 
 Based on the cult-classic Quentin Tarantino film about a group of foul-mouthed robbers trying to 
 sniff out a rat among their group after a jewel heist gone wrong, this third-person action game 
 tries to justify its existence by expanding upon many of the questions left at the end of the film. 
 The problem is that none of the answers are very interesting. These new sequences act less as legitimate 
 fan service and more as a hackneyed means to put you through a series of boring, clunky, and disjointed 
 shooter levels, as well as some painfully frustrating driving sequences.  

          The Reservoir Dogs are back, filthy mouths and all.     

  As a film,  Reservoir Dogs 
  told the tale of the rainbow coalition of bank robbers, Mr. White, Mr. Blonde, Mr. Pink, Mr. Blue, 
 Mr. Brown, and Mr. Orange. A collection of unassuming crooks hired on by a salty old gangster named 
 Joe Cabot and his son, Nice Guy Eddie, this crew planned, executed, and subsequently fled a jewel 
 heist that was broken up by the arrival of many, many cops. Many suspect a set-up, and we learn 
 bit by bit the events that led up to the formation of the crew, the heist itself, and the eventual 
 breakdown through a completely nonlinear storyline. Generally speaking, the game version of Reservoir 
 Dogs tells the same tale, though not with as much exposition and dialogue to properly set things 
 up. You get many of the key scenes from the film in CG cutscenes, but it's safe to say that if 
 you haven't seen the movie this game is based on, you'll frequently find yourself confused as to 
 what's going on. You don't really get much of the background info on any of the main characters. 
 The game simply rushes through the parts of the movie that actually explain things to try and get 
 you into the action as quickly as possible. In that way, Reservoir Dogs seems specifically designed 
 to be a companion piece for those already familiar with the film. Unfortunately, it's a pretty 
 unpleasant companion.  

  Fans of the film might be wondering how, exactly, such a dialogue-laden, action-lite crime drama 
 could work as an action game. The answer is that it really doesn't, though not from a lack of trying. 
 The developers turned the individual escapes and chases vaguely alluded to in the film into full-blown 
 gameplay sequences. Novel idea, except that the rootin', tootin' gunplay parts and  Blues Brothers 
 -inspired car chases seem completely out of line with the tone of the film. Basically, the answer 
 to every question of what happened to one character or another is that they found themselves running 
 through one generic-looking environment or another, encountering scattered gatherings of cops from 
 time to time, until they got to the exit. Or, they found themselves driving a car, trying to get 
 from point A to point B without exploding. These exact scenarios happen over and over again, and 
 they aren't fun in the slightest.  

  To be fair, Reservoir Dogs does make a vague attempt to play to the mentality of a smart criminal 
 by letting you take hostages, rather than simply blasting your way through every cop that gets 
 in your way. As you move through a level, you can take any nearby, unarmed person hostage. This 
 slows you down considerably, but cops won't fire at you as long as you're holding an innocent person 
 in front of you. Initially, you can just make verbal threats to get cops to put down their guns, 
 and once they do, you can target each of them and take control of them. Once you move an unarmed 
 cop over to a wall, you can force him to get on his knees with his hands behind his head and stay 
 there. Some cops won't respond to verbal threats, so you can simply rough up the hostage a bit 
 to show you mean business, and they'll eventually back down.  

  There are many problems with this system, not the least of which is the fact that you're disabling 
 entire police forces and SWAT teams by smacking around a single hostage. Granted, most crime action 
 games don't rely on realistic police tactics to be fun, but the very conceit that a cop will stay 
 on his knees -- face to a wall, even after you've turned your back to him, with a gun on the ground 
 six feet away -- is tough to swallow. And where are the snipers? The most ridiculous aspect of all 
 is a special move you can pull off after you fill up your adrenaline meter (which, of course, fills 
 up as you cause more chaos) . With this move, you do a particularly brutal attack to your hostage 
 that actually knocks him out. This leads all the cops in the vicinity to lay down their arms and 
 immediately surrender. So, to recap, you've just beaten a hostage senseless, knocked him to the 
 ground, and given the cops an open target as your human shield is now on the floor. And these knuckleheads 
 with submachine guns decide it's time to lay down arms and give up?  

          You'll take hostages frequently if you want to survive. It also slows the pace of the game 
 to a crawl.     

  Logic leaps aside, the mechanic itself also happens to make the action completely boring. The theory 
 here is that you could actually get through Reservoir Dogs without firing a single bullet, but 
 doing this is no fun at all. You move so slowly, and the levels often take a good bit of time to 
 get through, so you find yourself slogging away at a snail's pace, repeating the exact same sequence 
 of actions to get multitudes of cops to surrender over and over again. And as a final nail in this 
 idea's coffin, sometimes it doesn't even work. Sometimes cops will randomly pick their guns right 
 back up after dropping them, forcing you to smack a hostage again and again until they finally 
 stop getting sassy with you.     

  You can choose to simply blast your way through levels, though that's only slightly more fun. You 
 can use a few different weapons, ranging from multiple pistol types to shotguns, machine guns, 
 and sniper rifles. The problem is that aiming and shooting is incredibly inaccurate. You can target 
 specific enemies with a target-lock button, but even then, your ability to hit them is suspect, 
 and when you do, it takes dozens of rounds to finally put any enemy down. Your only chance of survival 
 with this method is to use cover, but even this doesn't work very well. Once you line yourself 
 up with a wall, you can peer around corners and shoot decently enough. But actually getting your 
 character to line up with a wall is a chore. Sometimes they'll do it, and sometimes they'll roll 
 in some random direction or just stand there getting shot to death. You can take only a few bullets 
 before you're dead, as well.  

          Some of the action and driving sequences just seem totally overwrought for a story that 
 is, in essence, a drama, and not rooted in a lot of crazy action.     

  Depending on which way you play a level, either as a violent psychopath or a consummate professional, 
 this all ties in to a rating that tallies up at the end of each stage. On one end is the psychopath 
 rating, and the other the professional rating, with a "career criminal" rating in the middle. Your 
 actions count toward one of these overall ratings, which determine the ending you get at the end 
 of the game. Given the lousy gameplay, it's highly unlikely that anyone will want to play through 
 the game multiple times to see the different endings; but if nothing else, it won't take you very 
 long should you decide to punish yourself this way. The whole game takes only around five to six 
 hours to complete.  

  The game's driving sequences use the same system, though it judges you based on the amount of reckless 
 damage you cause, versus more cautious driving. Unfortunately, driving cautiously is impossible 
 with driving controls this heinous. Cars oversteer ridiculously, violently slipping around a track 
 and making it extremely hard to avoid oncoming traffic and nearby cop cars. Sometimes you have 
 to slam into cops to destroy them, but lining them up can be an extreme pain when you can barely 
 keep your car moving straight. The driving courses are also extremely linear, with few shortcuts 
 or jumps to speak of, and a very specific map path that you have to take to get to your objective, 
 so it's not like you get to do much in the way of exploration while driving, either.  

  Though Reservoir Dogs is far from the worst-looking action game you'll ever see, it's not pleasant 
 to look at. The character models are blurry and don't animate very well. It's a far cry from what 
 you see in the cutscenes, where the models at least have some detail to them. In-game, they just 
 look awful. Environments frequently repeat the same urban settings, even after you've gotten past 
 the heist sections of the story. Though some areas look decent, you'll frequently see extremely 
 fuzzy textures and set pieces that clearly weren't meant for careful examination. When driving, 
 car physics are all over the place. Some cars will launch hundreds of feet with a simple tap, while 
 others will stand pat after a hefty bump. The driving camera also has a tendency to go absolutely 
 insane when multiple cops are rubbing up against you, snapping back and forth between top-down 
 and behind-the-car views in a spastic fashion. Predictably, the PC version of the game does look 
 better than the Xbox and PlayStation 2 versions, though it also requires a dual-analog gamepad 
 for proper control. You can get by for the most part with a keyboard and mouse, but when you have 
 to direct disarmed cops toward walls and objects to surrender, you have to slide the mouse around 
 to direct their movements, which is a poor substitute for the right analog stick control on the 
 console versions.  

          Even killing indiscriminately is pretty boring.      

  The audio in Reservoir Dogs is far and away the best thing about it. Though Michael Madsen is the 
 only one of the original Dogs to provide a voice and likeness for the film (and he does a pretty 
 good job with it too, sounding less intoxicated than usual) , the remaining voice actors, while 
 not even close to sounding like Harvey Keitel, Chris Penn, Tim Roth, Steven Buscemi, or the rest, 
 do a good-enough job with the dialogue on their own merits. And to his credit, the actor voicing 
 Buscemi's Mr. Pink does at least get the inflection right, even if it is laced with a bit too much 
 Peter Lorre underneath. The dialogue itself is right in line with the film, which is to say, it's 
 extremely curse-laden. Certainly in the running for the most prolific use of words like f*** and 
 s*** this year. Many of the hits from K-Billy's "Super Sounds of the Seventies" radio show play 
 during various sequences (though there's no Stephen Wright-inspired radio DJ to compliment the 
 music) , including such gems as Stealers Wheel's "Stuck in the Middle With You," George Baker Selection's 
 "Little Green Bag," and Blue Swede's rendition of "Hooked on a Feeling." These tracks make for 
 some delightful listening, even if what's going on in the game itself is anything but delightful. 

  Were Reservoir Dogs content to be merely another generic action game, sans license, its mediocrity 
 would be pretty unassuming and far less offensive than what it does by taking the Reservoir Dogs 
 name. This game doesn't answer any questions left by the film or provide a unique and interesting 
 interactive version of the story. It simply punches a hole in the story and begins tearing away 
 at the edges to try and cram a bunch of lame-duck shooter levels and ridiculously bad driving missions 
 where such things just do not fit. If you aren't familiar with the film, you'll be equal parts 
 confused by its reconfiguration of the story and irritated by its poorly conceived gameplay. If 
 you are a fan of the film, multiply those same feelings by a factor of a hundred.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (17 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: SerbWarrior
Rating: 4
Date: Apr 15, 2009 1:05 pm PT
Review:  Reservoir dogs (the movie) , a masterpiece, an instant classic...
  Quentin Tarantino, a genius...
  Resevoir dogs (the game) , one of the worst games ever to have been 
 created, id rather play pacman for time immemorial, than play this piece a **** for an hour!
  But, since this is a review, i suppose id better describe this ,, game'' a little at least...
  There 
 are several missions, all of which are 100 % the same as the previous one...
  You enter a mission, shoot everyone, and finish...
  There are a few driving missions, they are nothing 
 special though!
  You do this, for about 14 missions...
  You have a 9mm beretta, Remington shotgun, M4, a sniper, Desert eagle, MP5, Smoke grenade, flash bang...
 
  You can dual wield some of the one handed weapons, for example you can wield 2 9mm's or 2 desert 
 eagles...
  The characters are just like in the movies, exept they arent...
  They changed the characters just enough, so Tarantino couldnt sue their ass...
  The plot dosent 
 really follow the movie, bank robery, shooting your way out of the bank, shooting your way towards 
 the hideout, everyone dies...
  Apparently, you can collect hidden objects, known as blue prints...
  Their basicly hidden aroud 
 a mission, you can find them....
  You collect enough, you get some unlockable content...
  The unlockable content is not worth the thought, let alone the effort of collecting the blue prints!
 
  The best parts of the game, are the music and cinematics, that they stole from the 
 
  All in all...
  This game is one of the worst i ever played...
  And, it is hard for me to say this, even though i said it several times...
  As a Reservoir dogs 
 fan, i can say, that this game is an insult to the movie...
  There is no way for me to describe the hatred i feel for this game!
  We should find every copy 
 and burn it...
  
  Graphics 4/10
  Gameplay 2/10
  Story 1/10
  Music 10/10
  Sound 5/10
  
  Overall rating:4/10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bruce_Banner
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 19, 2008 8:26 am PT
Review:  The only bad things with this game is that the characters don't look like the actors and that it's 
 too short and too easy. All the rest is great!
  You get to play as all of the main characters, and you have to get each one of them away from the 
 site of the robbery to the warehouse (except for the ones who die) . You play the flashbacks and 
 the parts they only talk about in the movie, i. e. inside the diamond store, Mr. Blue's death, Mr 
 Blonde kidnapping the cop, Mr. Pink trying to get the stones back from where he had hidden them...
 
  While running away (from the site of the robbery) , you can choose to be a pro and get hostages, 
 disarm police officers and get out without killing anyone or you can be a psycho and shoot everyone 
 on your way till you get to the end of the level.
  And the soundtrack (when you're inside a car) is the same of the movie, which just makes it even 
 better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Angry_Bosmer
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 2, 2008 7:49 am PT
Review:  I never heard about this game until I picked it up at A PHARMACIE for 4.99$, I could of got Tomb 
 Raider Legend there too. That wasn't a good start, but the game on the cover looked cool so I start 
 playing it.
  First thing I noticed was the catchy intro song 'Green Bag'. Ok that's not much but still I had 
 to say it.
  Next I start playing the tutorial. The game doesn't let you understand what the hell is going on 
 in the story. It jumps back and forth in the cut-scenes, where at the end it all pieces together. 
 That's something I like in movies and this game feels like a movie.
  The game is pretty linear but the gameplay is so well made that it makes it easy. You can use crowd 
 control tactics to neutralise but not kill civilians and cops. This accomplishes 'Pro' points witch 
 on a meter will unlock a different endings than Pysco (killing everyone) and Thug (balance) .
  Enemies are sometimes hard to defeat in a fire fight but the majority of times they are a little 
 easy. It's one of those games where it's fun to kill someone. I frequently line disarmed cops on 
 a wall and kill them all with a machine gun.
  The only weak point of the game is driving. The visuals look like crap and the cars are horrible 
 looking. You can only drive down one path! And your buddies never feel the urge to help you shoot 
 the cops. 
  Apart from the driving Reservoir Dogs is a good game and deserves a 8.0. Even if the game doesn't 
 offer many reasons to replay the game, the missions are fun enough to make you play them over and 
 over. Nice PS2 port (you can see a 'hit triangle to stop' in bullet time) .
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: patrick00746
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 28, 2008 2:24 am PT
Review:  why do some user's and game spot rate this game to low? or maybe they all after from the film of 
 this game and they don't want to play this one???? as for me this is all i can say.........................
 
  and this game you can find three different types of ending psychopath by killing all people around 
 you're site i mean all hostage even cops.......... and the second one is a carer criminal kill 
 few cops except civilian hostage and the last one the  
 part to do is the professional means you will not kill even civilian hostage and also cops i proud 
 to say that i finish all of three ending...................... the graphics just all right for 
 me, the texture and other level detail also you can find some weapon grenade flash and also smoke 
 grenade from the cops you kill or been hostile.................. and the game start from training 
 a little bit of easy for you to familiarize the controls of the game until you find or drive your 
 way to site that your gang landed to steal a jewel but and game story one of the low life people 
 i mean civilian take the alarm and all of you manage to escape one by one..... until they find 
 out that there's one cop and their gang............... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zakld
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 13, 2007 4:39 am PT
Review:  I first started this game and after an hour's play I quit and I thought it was going to be another 
 one of those 'install, play a bit, uninstall and never think about' games. 
  
  After a week of doing other things, perhaps playing other games, I don't really remember, I got 
 back to the game because I was incredibily bored. I stuck through with it and it was fun to play 
 it. 
  
  However, it quite appalingly done. It does attempt to add new flavour to this genre but does so 
 unsuccessfully - kind of like the game The Mark which I uninstalled after just 5 minutes. 
  
  I am thinking whether to rank this game at all since it deserves around 5 but I will give it 
 6 since I have my own rating system and do think that the game is barely playable and you should 
 only play it if you have nothing to do and you accurately counted all the ants going through your 
 house. 
  
  
  
  My marking system is as follows:
  
  10 - Absolute Legend
  9 - Must Be Played
  8 - Excellent and Worth Your Time
  7 - Worth playing if you have nothing 
 else to play
  6 - worh playing if you have nothing to play and are incredbly bored and have not got absolutely 
 anything else to do. (Barely playable/enjoyable) . 
  
  I don't give marks 1-5 as if a game starts sucking I don't finish it, so I only review the games 
 that are barely playable (6) to the absolutely amazingly incredible ones (10)
  
  I will also probably keep my reviews short as I don't like discovering too much about the gameplay. 
 I only like to give my quick opinion and get on with life.
  
  Best Wishes to everyone
  
  Zak 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: brand_3000lee
Rating: 6.2
Date: Jun 2, 2007 8:22 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay 6/10 - The gamplay on this game isn't too bad, yes there are only something like 16 missions, 
 and each mission normally doesn't take any longer then 15 or 20 mins to complete, so there really 
 isn't a long game at all, probabaly no more then 3 - 4 hours to complete it.
  
  Graphics 6/10 - The graphics on the PC are overally specataular but there good enough to look at. 
 some of the graphics just look a little out of place.
  
  Sound 9/10 - The sound in this game is great, with some nice voice acting and great music from 
 the era it was made.
  
  Value 5/10 - Not overally great here but if you can get the game cheap, there the shortness of 
 the game won't feel so bad, they really need to add extra stuff to the game.
  
  Tilt 6/10 - Overall it's pretty fun to play for what it lasts, i remmend it your not sure to rent 
 it first then buy it if you haven't finished it already. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: woozienebunu
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 12, 2007 12:22 am PT
Review:  Reservoir dogs is one of the best movies ever and it has gone to the game level.
  The game starts easily with training missions. After that you enter directly in the action. The game 
 follows the characters when running from the store, and searching for the hidden jewels.
  The graphics could have been better but the wiews and effects are quite pleasant. The sound is excellent 
 mostly because of the voice acting.
  The gameplay is complex enough. You can finish the missions in three modes: Psycho (My favourite. It 
 means taking few hostages and killing everybody) , Career Criminal (It means killing a normal number 
 of people but taking hostages) and Pro (Killing few people and pacifing the cops with hostages) . There 
 are few guns but it pretty doesn't matter.
  The only bad thing is the linearity of the missions.
  The story is very good and it adds up.
 
  It is a very good game and it truly deserves to be played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trackez
Rating: 4.4
Date: May 1, 2007 9:19 am PT
Review:  Story: I went to a mega store and saw a game at: $18,93... I though : Well , for that price i guess 
 i can try it... ERROR!
  
  Explanation:
  
  First of all I had a problem to start it... haha ... it started so good .... when I finally start 
 it ( thanks god ) , first impression was the soundtrack.... it rocks! But... when I saw the graphics.... 
 WHAT? how a developper can make ugly graphics like that in our years ... All caracters seem to 
 came out from the 1990's ... so many bugs... For the gameplay: Well at the beggining it was fun 
 to choose to be professional or .. psychopath... but so boring after a few hours of play.... i 
 finished the game in 15 hours... And the driving control are so bad.... If you die ( that is not 
 really frequent because there's no AI ) , you have to watch back the cinematic ... can't skip it 
 .... bad!
  
  Well the verdict: Even if the game looks cool and cheap ... be careful .... sometimes it's the 
 reason... the game is cheap! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VercettiTommyy
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 21, 2007 4:55 am PT
Review:  I don't know why it has such a poor review. I mean, the film from 1992 was indeed great. The game 
 remembers us of some of those nice scenes &amp; dialogues from the movie.&amp; completes the story. What 
 happened to Mr. Brown? Did Mr. Pink escape with the diamonds? Yeah, I know, the graphics kindda suck, but 
 you'll get over that the more you play. The sound is really good, the Super Sounds of the Seventies 
 are in the soundtrack,&amp; Michael Madsen is in the game as Mr. Blonde. Shoot your way trough 
 cops, take hostages, deal with the cops,&amp; than escape with the car, followed by cops. Almost like 
 GTA. With every character. It's interesting, intense, nice to play, but it's too short, that's the bad 
 thing. But the most important thing is that I enjoyed it. So, you gonna bark all day, little doggy, or 
 you're gonna bite? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mYslead
Rating: 4.7
Date: Nov 29, 2006 5:02 pm PT
Review:  Reservoir Dogs (PC)
  If you've never heard of Reservoir Dogs before, you're probably better off watching the movie than 
 playing the game.
  
  The Good: It's Reservoir Dogs, the signature torture moves.
  
  The Bad: The basic gameplay, the outdated graphics, the crappy driving missions.
  --------------------------------
 
  
  Rervoir Dogs is the film that marked the debut of Quentin Tarantino as a film director back in 
 1992. It introduced many of the themes and aesthetics that Tarantino's been using throughout his 
 movies. The violence, pop culture references, the unforgettable dialogue and the nonlinear stories.
 
  
  Now; I only heard about the game maybe two months ago on Gamespot and at first I was a bit skeptical 
 about the project, but as they started to revealed the game I was starting to draw more interest 
 about the game. The images looked decent and the gameplay movies looked cool for the purpose. But 
 the main question was if the game would be able to capture the unique atmosphere of the movie.
 
  
  The game starts as a tutorial to the game, making sure that you know how to handle a gun, how to 
 take cover properly and how to interact with hostages and cops. Once you're ready, The first chapter 
 kicks in and you finally get to showdown for the first time against the cops as Mr. Blue in the 
 way-bigger-than-I-remembered jewelry shop. Your mission is simple, you have to get out of the place 
 alive and get to the warehouse. As you go, you get to decide how you want to play the game, it's 
 either as a gun-blazing one man army or you try to take advantage of the hostages to neutralize 
 the cops. And depending on how you did during the level, you get a campaign rating that you accumulate 
 throughout the whole game. You get the basic Psychopath rating that you get by killing everything 
 that moves, the Professional rating when you prefers to neutralize than to kill and the Career 
 Criminal rating which is somewhat in between the other two (the only thing that your overall rating 
 affect is the ending you get) . So yeah, when facing the cops you can either grab a close bystander 
 and take him hostage or shoot them all to hell. In the first scenario you get to use the hostage 
 as body shield that will make the cops hesitant to shoot you, actually they don't shoot at all 
 if you have a hostage which is quite useful in back-against-the-wall situation (which rarely happens 
 but still ...) . With the hostage in your possession you can order the cops to drop their weapons 
 and neutralize them the use of a single button but depending on the type of cops you encounter, 
 you might have to slap the hostage around a time or two for them to listen to you. There's three 
 types of cops throughout the game. The five dollars rent-a-cop, the normal cop and the SWAT member. 
 The only differences between them is their arsenal and their breaking point. The Security guy is 
 armed with a pistol and drops to his knees the first time you ask him to if you have an hostage 
 but for the two others you'll have to hurt your hostage first and are armed either with a pistol, 
 submachine gun or a shotgun. Be sure to neutralize the unarmed cops as soon as they drop their 
 weapons because as you'll move around or turn your back at them, they'll be grabbing their weapon 
 and taking cover (or at least try) faster than you can say scissors.
  
  So as you kill or neutralize cops / bystanders, you get to fill a bullet-time alike meter that 
 once filled can unleashed a ... bullet-time mode for a few seconds which finish as a little Max 
 Payne touch as you watch the guys you killed like if you were watching the Matrix. But if you prefer 
 a more subtle approach you can wait to use your fully loaded meter when you get your hands on a 
 hostage which unleash a signature torture move on him that will neutralize any cops that surrounds 
 you as they are disgusted of the gore or whatever. As the chapters unfolds, you get to play the 
 different characters from the colorful cast (to say the least) but you'll soon notice that the 
 only difference with them apart from looking different (and different from their movie counterpart 
 except for Vegas) is their signature torture move. You'll also notice that's pretty much the only 
 thing that's different at all, it's the same stuff over and over again, you take cover, you take 
 a hostage, you scare the cops, you kill the cops, you run; rewind. Even some levels are reused 
 but viewed from a different point of view, as Pink went left and White went right. Oh and before 
 I forget, there's a couple of vehicles-based action inserted in the story as it unfolds but not 
 really worth talking about. It's basically you driving a car trying to make your way to the finish 
 line, oh and you have access to a boost (funny how the random stolen cars from the cinematics have 
 Nos) that works exactly like the bullet-time meter when you're on foot. You fill it up as you drive 
 like a madman and shoot stuff, like I said not really worth talking about. To be honest I was a 
 disappointed of the gameplay. The main problem was the fact that the over-the-top violence seems 
 to be the main attraction of the game. You can try to finish levels by neutralizing cops with the 
 help of hostages but it's crystal clear as you march through the game that gun-blazing was the 
 way the developers wanted you to play the game. As for me, I would have opted for a more subtle 
 approach, a more stealthy type of game maybe, not without some satisfying firefights but maybe 
 not as much as we're offered right now. Reservoir Dogs was all about the dialog, the violence was 
 used sparingly and to reinforce scenes. And this game is all the way around and it does not work 
 very well. As you shoot your way through a dozen of chapters and you are rewarded with a ten seconds 
 cinematics between each chapters. Yes, most of them are straight out of the movie but it's still 
 not enough, you miss most of parts that made Reservoir Dogs so great in the first place.
  
  Moving on to the technical side of the game. Only one of the original cast made the transition 
 to the game (Micheal Madsen) all the others have a new face in the game. And let me say this Mr. 
 Orange looks like CRAP, actually most of the characters looks sub-par due to a probably outdated 
 graphic engine. I would have loved to see (or play) Buscemi in the game to play the selfish Mr. 
 Pink that he played so well in the movie. A nice touch though was adding all of the original soundtrack 
 to the game, but the fact that you can only listen to the music in the crappy vehicle session is 
 kind of a letdown. The game runs very smooth though, I'll give it that, but weights close to nothing 
 in the balance.
  
  I probably played this game more than I should have spent time on but being a die hard Reservoir 
 Dogs fan, I owe it at least a couple of hours of my time. My verdict is, the game's not bad but 
 nothing special either, everything has been done before and probably better. And if you play the 
 game with the thought of reliving the movie, think again as the game completely miss the point 
 of the movie. But as a game of itself it would probably just make the average or below average 
 grade. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: p232
Rating: 2.7
Date: Oct 28, 2006 2:40 am PT
Review:  When I first played this game, I thought it was pretty fun. During the training and the first robbery 
 was it a little funny to take hostages and shoot around and that stuff. But then was the posiblities 
 getting smaller and smaller. It was fun for a hour, I then I got realy boring. Taking hostages 
 is probely the only way to live in this game. Its really boring after a while.
  
  The good: Was fun in the begining..
  
  The bad: Everything, graffic, car driving, too easy 
 levels, and all the rest!
  
  It doesent have any thing else to offer then robbing banks with few posiblities and taking hostages. 
 This game is totaly boring after 1-2 hours, and is not worth the money at all. Its also yust two 
 levels: easy and normal. When even normal is too easy, I could not even think of how easy the easy 
 level would be.
  
  I would rather recommend you to buy Max payne 1 or 2. This game could have been made in 2002 if 
 you ask me, espesially when you look at the graffic. I say again: Don't waste your money on this 
 one! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kap_thirteen
Rating: 2.8
Date: Oct 27, 2006 7:02 pm PT
Review:  First of all I have to tell you this game is stupid. RD is not the sort of film you make a game 
 of in the first place. So they changed the storyline in the game. The storyline is more like Transporter 
 2 or Crank. Yes this game is rubish. You can finish it in about a day. I think there are 3 different 
 endings but who cares. The characters dont even look like the people they are meant to be. I liked 
 how you could take hostages, the driving bit was okay too. But let be be honest with you, if you 
 buy this game you are really stupid. Play it by all means if your friend has been so stupid as 
 to buy this crap game. Don't you be the stupid friend.
  If you like the film. I myself do. Dont even give this game a seconf thought. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VampyreLegion
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 26, 2006 11:24 am PT
Review:  I think this game is under rated, it is fun and has great graphics, runs well, no crashes...
  
  The thing that I like about the game was the abilty to play different characters throughout 
 the game.
  
  The car chases and driving protion of the game was a blast and being able to shoot out of the car 
 window was super cool, driving a get away car and blasting people ahead of you to make the crash 
 and take out the cops chasing you ,,,:) very fun
  
  The FPS portion also has some cool features, you can grab a hostage and use them as shields, you 
 can perswade people with your gun and make them open safes or cuase others to drop their guns.. 
 very cool
  
  Only ding against this game is.. the game was too short, It was over before I started. : ( I played 
 for a couple hours and had reached the end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Re_Das_7
Rating: 2.8
Date: Oct 26, 2006 10:21 am PT
Review:  I do not have much words to say but i think if Reservoir Dogs stayed as a movie that would be much 
 better..
  game adv.
  1- character sound was so real like the movie . so that make the sound is the only good point in 
 this game
  2- each character have a style in killing - torture to kill - that is cool i guess
  
  DISADVANTAGES:
 
  The rest of the game is disadvantages
  1-game have a very old style old gaming (extinct style) ..... as short 15 mission.
  2- low graphics 
 specially main characters they r not even look like the movie characters. I recognized Steve Buscemi 
 and Michael Madsen by there voices.
  3- cars mission was so humble
  4- the missions r the same grab hostage and make guard surrender then grab guard and make other 
 one surrender so on....
  5- all of character havenot special skills or special weapon all the same.
  
  That is enough 
 ... only advice do not try this game... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RyuDaDragon
Rating: 4.6
Date: Sep 5, 2006 10:03 am PT
Review:  A classic execellent film has been let down by a poor effot of a game!! (Not the first time we 
 have seen this though, Is it?)
  
  The game itself is way to easy, a 5yr old could complete this one even on Normal, athough there 
 is only two game play settings normal and easy. I went through the game in a couple of hours. With 
 the game being a cross console game you already know the graphics arent going to be anything special, 
 and there NOT! One good thing about the game is the bullet time they have created for it, but you 
 soon get bored with that. Oh and sorry not to forget the amazing Original soundtrack, but rather 
 hear it in the film than this game!
  
  Over all review, Dont buy this game borrow it of a friend, there are so many more games you can 
 spend 20 quid on, most likely better than this one! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joereid86
Rating: 3.9
Date: Aug 28, 2006 7:19 am PT
Review:  Well what can I say since, GTA which had a new style to the genre of Action/adventure. But since 
 the years the market of the genre many developers are trying to cash in on the same genre from 
 Movies such as The Godfather, another title that you think would have been big, bad sadly an offer 
 you could refuse. Whats bad about this title is start of the game the controls of the move seems 
 to mainly aimed at console users, The initial story starts basically the same as the film itself, 
 the game offers you to play through out the characters of the heist of the bank job, but the missions/chapters 
 get very repetitive with the same concept of finding files hiding in lockers and store rooms to 
 picking up civilians to make an escape. The game play of the car missions I found to easy the control 
 part was easy but with only the option to selection normal or easy is made, and you could easily 
 picked off the game play hours, with the theses short chapter missions. Well what works for the 
 game only really think is the use of sound, from the music that co-insides with the film its good 
 to hear the Stealers Wheelers, and the classic The lime and the coconut, however if your not careful 
 the game cycles round the same tracks and again it becomes strain to listen to classic tunes from 
 the motion film. The sound of the weapons arent too bad with the environment sound to the use 
 of vocals however, the rigging of prop sound you find are synchronised up to the greatest standard.
 
  Overall playing the game only takes about 7-8hrs if that, as there the only two options of difficulty 
 to choose your find there isnt much of a difference in game play. Theres an added option to play 
 the game again to unlock an alternative ending, but from what I played you really wont to revisit 
 the past with the game, as its doesnt added any new features to play the game a second time, and 
 is it really worth the ending since Quentin Tarantino didnt offer support to the creative story 
 change, of the stories ending it nothing to be missed. This game is certain best to be left to 
 wash away down the reservoir and best forgotten. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: graphikal
Rating: 2.9
Date: Aug 26, 2006 4:50 am PT
Review:  When I first put the disc in to play, I already had doubts seeing as this is a game they've been 
 working on for 4 years and this is their feeble attempt. The story is about answering the questions 
 that weren't covered in the original film. These missions are totally linear as you do just the 
 same thing everytime, at points I nearly gauged my eyes out from utter frustration. There are 10+ 
 levels of either on-foot playing and alternatively there are a couple of driving missions. Each 
 mission you seem to just go thru different rooms then come across a ton of cops which you kill, 
 trying to avoid civilians from pulling the alarm. Thus, you have to 'neutrilize' them which is 
 the most boring thing ever to do. As Eidos said, you can go through the whole game without killing 
 anyone. Sounds great, huh!?
  
  Graphics in the game are terrible, PlayStation 1 like if you will. In the driving part missions 
 you will see that the draw distance is as bad as Superman 64. Often things all of a sudden appear 
 infront of you. The game has its share of bugs too. I came across more and more animation problems 
 near the latter part of the game. Like enemies who are attacking would just stop and kneel down 
 on the floor, then stand back up and do nothing. Now as this is the 'official' game for the for 
 the film, I've got a few things to note, like.. the sound. All characters where voiced by familiar 
 artists who sound like the original, they didn't even get the originals! Another thing that I have 
 thankfully seen others notice is the cutscenes/player models. The cutscenes are all done in the 
 classic 3D modelling programs. Looks damn ugly, more disgusting than the actual in-game graphics 
 - nearly. My main pain is that they ruined the character appearences. Nobody looks like their original 
 character at all. They all sport fat model bodies too, looks like they really put the hard work 
 in right? *sarcasm*. I'm not even going to talk about Mr. Orange's model. All in all, don't buy, 
 rent, download or steal this game. It's a total waste of your time. I gave it a chance at the start, 
 but it went over line eventually. No wonder Quentin didn't want anything to do with this, this 
 really will ruin the film for Reservoir Dog fans. Would of been good if Rockstar would've picked 
 this up and turned it into a next-gen title, or even current-gen. Then you surely would of got 
 a great title like The Warriors. Hope you guys and girls take my advice on this one. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
