-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Resident Evil 2
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/adventure/residentevil2/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 26, 1999
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 8.0, 17 Review (s)
User Score: 8.6, 729 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Capcom
Genre: Horror Action Adventure
Date:     Feb 28, 1999 &raquo;  
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
If you can brave its shortcomings, Resident Evil 2 is good, scary fun. 

 The original Resident Evil remains one of the PlayStation's most successful games. It was so popular, 
 in fact, that it inspired a slew of similar horror-themed action/adventure games for the system. 
 And while many would cite Resident Evil as the originator of this formula, the fact is that the 
 lot of these games took their blueprint from a PC game, Infogrames' H. P. Lovecraft-inspired Alone 
 in the Dark. Resident Evil 2 is no exception, following the familiar formula of suspense achieved 
 through changing perspective and cinematic camera angles. Its PC lineage may explain why Resident 
 Evil 2 makes a successful jump from the PlayStation, but only if you can accept some decidedly 
 foreign design conventions inherent to console games.  

 Resident Evil 2 begins shortly after the first one ended. Raccoon City has been overrun by the zombies 
 created by the unscrupulous Umbrella corporation. While the heroes of the first game are absent 
 from the story-driven portion of Resident Evil 2, you still have your choice of two characters. 
 Actually, it isn't much of a choice. To finish the game, you must play through each section as 
 both characters.  

 Most of Resident Evil 2 takes place in the Raccoon City Police Station, where both Leon and Claire 
 have taken refuge from the zombie infestation. Inside, you'll solve a variety of puzzles, which 
 mostly involve finding keys to unlock previously inaccessible areas. The puzzles are simple, and 
 you'll find yourself sliding blocks onto pressure plates and fitting medallions into their resting 
 places. Likewise, the action, while graphic in content, is somewhat on the light side. You just 
 point your character in the general vicinity of a zombie and fire your weapon.  

 Neither of these points is a criticism. Resident Evil 2 is an action/adventure that puts emphasis 
 on neither. Instead, its strength is its atmosphere. The game is both creepy and, at times, frightening. 
 The creature designs are good, as there are both gory scenes of zombies feasting on victims, and 
 startling moments of creatures jumping out of nowhere.  

 The translation from the PlayStation is good. The character models are high resolution, though the 
 backgrounds are a bit washed out. The movies, though well rendered, are somewhat grainy, but look 
 better than those in other console ports like Final Fantasy VII. The PC version of Resident Evil 
 2 includes all the gameplay modes from both the US and Japanese versions of the PlayStation game, 
 and there are enough extras to satisfy you if you still want more once the lengthy "original" mode 
 draws to a close. The PC version also has an exclusive new feature, an art and model gallery that 
 lets you see how the designs evolved. It's not vital by any means, but it's a nice touch.  

 The music is appropriately creepy, with sad piano music floating in and out of the game. The other 
 sound effects don't fare as well. The groaning of zombies is creepy at first, but over time it 
 becomes tedious and repetitive. The voice-overs are terrible, though they seem appropriate in the 
 B-movie setting.  

 Resident Evil 2's origin as a PlayStation game is apparent. The method by which you save games will 
 infuriate PC purists, as it is not only sporadic, but requires an item of which there are a limited 
 number. This is part of the game's design, though, and it would lose much of its suspense without 
 it. But if such conventions annoy you, consider yourself warned. If you can brave its shortcomings, 
 however, Resident Evil 2 is good, scary fun.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (8 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: ng2006
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 23, 2007 6:28 am PT
Review:  I rememebr before playing this game, I'd never played any Adventure Like game. I used to play Action 
 FPSs all the time. When fist I saw it on console I didn't like it at that time. But one day I received 
 a free demo of it and I installed and guess what happened. I understood that I made a mistake by 
 NOT being interested in the game. I got completely addicted and RE was the start for me to value 
 Adventure Genre after that time.
  RE2 represents you what you may expect out of a game and more than that. It gives you action (Kind 
 of HOT action!!!) where you've got to face Zombies and Mutants off strange, rude (!) (Because some 
 of them puke on you! ;^) ) and beastly kind. You'll go deeply through Adventuring around and finding 
 things and keys and interesting objects. You'll have to figure it NOT much easy puzzles and sometimes 
 you'll have to walk around long distances to find things in order to solve these puzzles. Fascinating 
 3D cinematics which spice up the game and ... Love and Romance. Yeah ... Other good features about 
 this game:
  At that time the sound quality and graphic was one of the best. You couldn't imagine better than 
 that for a PC game. They'd styled postures and figures and weapons very well.
  The 4 scenarios (+2 more if you hit the score) that help the game being felt fresh. You won't get 
 pissed off if you play all of them one after another.
  These things and other things (that I can't remember know) will help me to easily rank this fascinating 
 game by a 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andruxandd
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 5, 2007 1:56 am PT
Review:  I play this game in 2000 year and was my first game i finished, first game i play in my life and 
 maybe that this genre of games marked forever. Then (in the grace year 2000) don't know how to play 
 a game like this and i was a rookie in that but after i play few hours my eyes, my hands and my 
 body was unstuck from pc many hours :)
  Resident Evil 2 is a great game with more, more moments who really scare. It's so great to try managed 
 a survival, a story like RE2 and if it's the first game you've been played and never play something 
 like that in the past, then, sure will be marked for life... A game with more fears and more actions 
 horror who make your skinny so horripilating... the sounds and background, environments and characters 
 is awful, bright in this game, i say the most great horror game ever made, actually all series of 
 RESIDENT EVIL.
  Super game, play it certainly in the dark with all lights off ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gentazo
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 3, 2006 3:17 am PT
Review:  Raccoon City has somehow fallen victim to a zombie outbreak and it's up to you as either police 
 officer Leon Kennedy, or Claire Redfield (sister to Chris Redfield from RE1) , to find out what's 
 going on. The adventure, which takes place in 3D using pre-rendered backgrounds, drags you through 
 spooky crash sites, abandoned buildings, experiments gone wrong and more -- all the while battling 
 undead monstrosities, solving puzzles and, most of all, trying to stay alive. Lots of weapons and 
 other gadgetry allow for some truly disgusting mayhem. It's an incredibly frightening game that 
 delivers a light back-story and lots of slasher movie, jump-out-and-go-boo scares. 
  
  Minimum Requirements:
  
  Win95/98
  
  P166MHz
  
  24MB RAM
  
  2X CD-ROM
  
  DirectX 
 6.0 compatible sound and video card 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nss_120
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 5, 2006 2:52 am PT
Review:  As I finish playing the disc 1, or either discs, I've been so surprised that there is 
  a second scenario that is happening to both characters. As I play the games many times hardly achieving 
 rank A, I am able to unlock Hunk and Tofu without even cheating!! That is my greatest achievement 
 in playing this game many, numerous times. Perhaps my hardest part is facing Mr. X in the first 
 scenario without any saves, or using FA sprays just to reach a high ranking. I always keep the 
 habit of not picking the items at the beginning of a game to encounter Brad Vickers and aqcuiring 
 the special key from him, I played Ex-Battle, I even managed to survive in the hardest difficulty 
 of the game, I am really a fan of the RE series, That's all... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Medpilot
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 26, 2006 3:48 am PT
Review:  Claire and Leon seem like a couple of good people, the kind that you really want to help out. When 
 they wander into a zombie town, however, all you can think is, "I am so glad that isn't me." 
 
  Resident Evil 2 plays on the jumpy gamers fears with excellent music and sudden piss-your-pants 
 scare tactics. The story progresses from the first RE revolving around Umbrella Corp.'s continuing 
 experiments with a zombie virus. The heroes are forced to find out the evil plot as they struggle 
 to get out of Raccoon City.
  The game is a pioneer in horror games. It was meant to play in the dark and if you do, it won't 
 disappoint. The problems with RE2 are few and once you get into the groove, they are barely noticed. 
 The only constant annoyance is inventory management. The balancing act can send you running for 
 a supply box if you are under-prepared.
  Even though it is a single player game, it can almost be enjoyed as a movie... a cheesy movie, 
 but a good movie nevertheless. Worth it 100%. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nico4
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 1, 2006 7:19 am PT
Review:  RE1 was a suprise hit so Capcom decided to develop RE2, the game got great succes on the PSone 
 now RE2 has been ported to PC but is it a good port?.
  Between July-September S. T. A. R. S reported the truth about what happened at the Mansion, however 
 no one believed them even though Chris keeps showing evedince to Brain Irons (head of the R. P. D) , 
 so Chris decides to leave Raccoon City and is going to Paris to stop Umbrella with Barry Burton 
 and Rebecca Chambers leaving Jill Valentine and Brad Visckers behind. Now its the 29th September 
 Claire Redfield has arrived at Raccoon City to find her lost brother Chris Redfield and Leon S. 
 Kennedy has also arrived to start his new job as a police officer however theres something wrong 
 with the town, monsters have overun the town! now Claire and Leon has to get out of Raccoon City 
 alive.
  The PC version is ported from the PSone version and its a good port however its not perfect, 
 the character models are in high resolution but the background are a bit washed out and the CG 
 movies are somewhat grainy though its rendered well however they do look better than the other 
 PSone to PC port like Final Fantasy VII. Theres also extras in the PC version thats not found 
 in the PSone version, the PC version includes all of the gameplay modes from both the Japanese 
 and American version (this feature is also in the European PC version) and there are enough extras 
 to keep you happy if you want more after the game has been completed (RE2 is the standard 10-12 
 hours long, but to get the true ending you have to play the game over with each of the 2 characters 
 2 times) , also theres a art and gallery mode that lets you see how the design evolved, its not 
 vital but its a nice touch.
  The music is great and creppy, with sad piano music floating in and out of the game, the other 
 sounds dont fare well with the game, the zombies groaning is creppy at first but it gets tedious 
 and repetitive over time and the voice overs are terrible, though they seem appropriate in the 
 B-movie setting.
  RE2 is a great game and the PC version is even better than the PSone wit its great puzzles and 
 story however some might trun off it because of the save system which requries you to collect a 
 special item thats limited, however overall RE2 is a fun and scary game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zux2000
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 31, 2005 12:10 pm PT
Review:  Maybe wonder why I don't make a review of the PS1 version insted for PC? It's that simple that 
 I own it just on PC, and I don't remember why I never bought it to PS1, it was a while... Maybe 
 it was because I never had enough with cash to buy it to PS1, it was cheaper on PC. But it doesn't 
 matter, anyway RE2 is a great continue to the first perfect RE game. (You can read my review of 
 that game too, just go in to my side.)
  
  You could now meet more zombies at the same time, in the first game it was maximum 3 zombies. But 
 now in RE2 it became more action, 5-6 zombies could attack you now. The game is bigger than the 
 first one too. Like the first game you can choose from the start wich character you want to play 
 with, 2 different characters. In this game it's Claire Redfield (sister to Chris Redfield from 
 the first one) and Leon S Kennedy, he's a new cop (his first day as a cop) . You are in Raccoon 
 City, and you discover very fast in the start that something is very wrong, almost everyone of 
 the peoples in the city has become zombies. 
  
  Almost the same story here as the first game, but the difference here is that insted "just" a big 
 mansion full with peoples who has become zombies, it has now been the whole Raccoon City... That's 
 the Umbrella Coperation how are behind all this mess, exactly like the first game. But now they 
 have maked a new type of virus, in the first game it's called "G-Virus" and now Umbrella have maked 
 the "T-Virus", a worse version of the "G-Virus". 
  So the story is same, same but different...
  
  This game is really great, and it has almost 
 everything that the first game has, plus more things ofcourse like some more weapons, new enemies 
 and little better graphic. (Not much, but a little) . But apart from these things, it's not better 
 than the first game. 
  
  The first game has a better story, and was more frightening, and had a little better background 
 music. RE2 feels a little more like a thriller/action/adventure then horror/action/adventure like 
 the first one is. 
  
  It's one thing I was a little disappointed about I can remember - It was that I thought you would 
 play outside on the streets/city 90% of the game, but it was the opposite: More 90% playing inside 
 - in the police station etc. But if we take away just that, it couldn't be much of a better follow-up 
 game to the first one, how is simply perfect... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cmpunmu3
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 1, 2005 4:25 am PT
Review:  One of the main reasons i've beaten this game about fifty times is because it has really interesting 
 storyline, mysterious encounters and gives me goosebumps every time i play it.
  What makes this game difficult is that there are short-limited amount of ammunition and weapons 
 for a disposal. Aiming is easy, you don't even have to aim, just try to point your weapon to the 
 direction of a monster, it don't have to be precise.
  It's great they made the game adventure/quest based, you'll have time to relax from zombies and 
 other creepy monsters scaring you.
  Music/sounds and graphics not as good, but it doesn't really matter when you're coming closer to 
 a corner and on it's other side can hear moaning zombies and what really matters is that you have 
 to shoot it that fast for him not to start chewing on your neck. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
