-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Resident Evil
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/residentevil/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 21, 1997
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.2
Critic Score: 8.0, 4 Review (s)
User Score: 8.3, 519 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Virgin Interactive
Developer: Capcom
Genre: Horror Action Adventure
Date:     Sep 30, 1997 &raquo;  
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Resident Evil is a rare gem that has been able to make the jump from a video game to a computer 
 game nearly flawlessly. 

 If you don't already know, Resident Evil was originally released in February of '96 for the Sony 
 PlayStation and was considered an instant classic by most in the video game community. On the PC 
 side, it is less of an event, as many games of this ilk have been seen before. But it's unfair 
 to dismiss Resident Evil as simply an ultraviolent Alone in the Dark. The game does something that 
 very few action-adventure games have been able to do: create a mood of true terror. With depictions 
 of death and violence, and with eerie music and sound effects, Resident Evil is one of those rare 
 games that's almost as entertaining to watch as it is to play.   

 It all starts out when the special tactics and rescue squad (S. T. A. R. S.) vanishes in a remote location 
 recently plagued by bizarre disappearances and deaths. Another team is sent in to investigate and 
 is quickly set upon by creatures that force the team to run for shelter in a creepy old mansion. 
 From here you start your journey as one of two characters, Jill Valentine or Chris Redfield. The 
 only real difference between the two is the amount of items each one can carry at any one time. 
 Ammo and health are also scarce when you play as Chris, so it is naturally a bit harder.   

 Resident Evil isn't a simple action game. Most of the time you have to conserve your shots and 
 just try to survive. The limited number of rounds for your weapons actually helps to create a feeling 
 of terror as you wander through the mansion, your ammo supply getting lower and lower. You frantically 
 begin searching every bookshelf and closet for more ammo in anticipation of your next encounter 
 with the undead. You gain access to different areas of the mansion and its grounds by finding keys 
 and solving puzzles, using your head and your guns. The puzzles in Resident Evil are pretty logical. 
 For instance, at one point you'll face an impassable giant mutant plant. You simply go to the garden 
 and get the weed poison. It's all really straightforward stuff.   

 The mood created by Resident Evil really sets it apart from similar games. It accomplishes an ambient 
 feeling of fright with graphics that are a mix of 3D polygon graphics and detailed 3D-rendered 
 environments. All of this is seen from a third-person view that changes from fixed position to 
 fixed position when moving throughout the game, giving it the "cinematic look." The character animations, 
 which were revolutionary on the PlayStation two years ago, are average - and in some cases below 
 average, depending on what type of 3D accelerator you are using.   

 The music is truly half the experience in Resident Evil, because it perfectly matches the onscreen 
 terror. For instance, when you are simply exploring the mansion the background music is eerie horror-flick 
 music that seems to keep you in suspense all by itself. But when you find yourself trapped in a 
 room with a collapsing ceiling, or some similar life-threatening event, the music turns into this 
 loud, frantic "you're about to die" ditty.   

 The only drawbacks to Resident Evil are the saving system and the camera angles. To save your game 
 in Resident Evil you have to find these ink ribbons and take them to a typewriter. Doesn't sound 
 too much like a pain? Well, being that there is a limited amount of ink ribbons and the typewriters 
 are few and far between, it is. And the variable camera angles often make it difficult to see targets 
 during combat, simply because you aren't standing in the right spot. It is frustrating, but you 
 get used to it.  

 In the end, Resident Evil is a rare gem that has not only been able to make the jump from a video 
 game to a computer game nearly flawlessly but has done so almost two years after it was originally 
 released. Console gamers may want to check out Resident Evil on the PC - it is the only true uncut 
 version of the game, featuring scenes not even in the recently released Resident Evil Directors 
 Cut. If you aren't too squeamish, you should definitely give Resident Evil on the PC a look.   
  
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (7 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: arcade_king
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 12, 2007 6:36 am PT
Review:  Resident Evil is the best horror games ever put out! This is just like the playstation version. 
 I first played this game back in 1996, Me and my brother rented this game from blockbuster video 
 one weekend and we were hooked. It took some getting use to the controls but once you get that 
 down the action is on! We played this game every night after work. I think it took us about 20 
 hours to master the game. Now i can master the game in about 2 hours, Getting the rocket launcher 
 and special key everytime. This pc version shows things at the beginning the playstation version 
 does'nt show. The only thing about this pc version the gameplay is fast for some reason on my pc, 
 It's like the players are walking fast, so the vombies and hunters come at you faster. If anyone 
 out there nows how to change this setting please let me know. When i got at the end when the tyant 
 is chasing jill on the heliport the 3 min. timer ran out right when the rocket laucher was dropped 
 from the helicopter. But this game is a classic and it started it all for all the resident evil 
 games, A must have if you enjoy horror games! I hope this game makes it to the sony psp game system 
 someday!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DS-man
Rating: 6.7
Date: Oct 11, 2006 11:15 am PT
Review:  (Taken from Resident Evil for the GC)
  
  I love zombies, and theres nothing like killing them on a video game, but for some reason i cant 
 get into the series apart from RE4, but RE4 does'nt have zombies T_T
  
  GOOD: Killing zombies are awesome, Very Very Good graphics
  
  BAD: Poor voice acting, Rubbish 
 camara angle, Rubbish gameplay
  
  GAMEPLAY-
  This is one of the reasons i dont like RE games, the gameplay, i dont like the slow moving and 
 all that aiming part, the controls are tight too making it less fun, GRAPHICS-
  Well, the graphics are just perffect, nothing wroung with it at all.... nope, nothing
  
  SOUND-
 
  Apart from the crap voice acting the sound aint to bad, but it would've been scarier if it had 
 creepy music init 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AdrenalinDragon
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 11, 2007 6:40 am PT
Review:  At first, everyone knows that Resident Evil is best on the Playstation. But, some of us gamers 
 didn't have a playstation (like me) at that time, so our only option of playing Resident Evil was 
 on the PC. Now, I'm going to admit it's not quite as good as the Playstation version due to the 
 awkward controls at first (unless you have a joypad) , but once you get used to them, you'll still 
 have the same game as the Playstation version on your PC.
  
  I think everyone knows the story of Resident Evil by now, and if you don't well that's tough. It's 
 a long story so I'm not going to bother to tell you anything about that. However, if you've played 
 the playstation version, you'll know that all of the things in the PC version are all the same. 
 The only advantage I've noticed on the PC version however, is that you can skip the opening door 
 cutscenes, which really help. So, if you can't find a copy of Resident Evil on the Playstation, 
 then try and get the PC version. All of the cheesy dialogue is in there, and it still gives us 
 all a laugh. Just remember, this is a survival horror game, so the whole idea is to escape and 
 survive throughout the game. If you want to shoot some enemies down and like doing some cool puzzles, 
 then this is the game for you, but you've probably already played it by now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supersohail
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 11, 2006 3:14 am PT
Review:  Most games like alone in the dark were dark enough for people to get scared but this game is more 
 than what it is supposed to be expected. Resident evil is a good fun survival game, mostly horror 
 fits into to it and mostly a bit of action too. You choose either Christ Redfield or Jill Valentine, 
 they both got different weapons and follow different paths too. There is evil in this game, this 
 is either life or death, you would love the zombies dazing like idiots lol, and the other monsters 
 you would meet through out the game. The graphics are not as good but it depends which version 
 you have, for instant say if the PC version had better graphics because of the graphics card/ video 
 card, your perfomance depends. The gameplay is fun too, it is a bit of a shame you can't run with 
 the gun shoot on this game but they would in future evil. But if you complete more than twice or 
 more, it would start to get a bit boring. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nss_120
Rating: 6.3
Date: Apr 5, 2006 1:21 am PT
Review:  Everytime I play this game I still rmember my past years playing this game in my playstation, Resident 
 Evil is a part of my gaming memories, Unlike any other survival-horror games, I got my full excitement 
 playing, And what thrills me when I finished this game for the first time long ago is the plot 
 and the whole story behind the situaton of the game, and also solving puzzles in this game make 
 it worthy for me to play. The weapons are also satisfying though I only use the knife when killing 
 zombies. I haven't used the handgun because of mastery on knife. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NeMeSiS_001
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jan 17, 2006 1:09 pm PT
Review:  This is the very first resident evil game and take it from me i am one of the biggest fans out 
 there but this wasnt my favorite one nor my least favorite one. As far as gameplay goes it is compleatly 
 awsome and very realike but the character's voices werent the best that ive heard and it had some 
 pretty dumb movies ( im talking about the movies with real people who couldnt act there way out 
 of a paper bag) . Even though it had some of its own fall it is truly a great game and is the one 
 game that should be played reguardless if you like Re. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zux2000
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 27, 2005 7:34 am PT
Review:  This is one of the best games I've played in my whole life! And is the best Resident Evil game 
 in the series... I have played it both on PS1 and PC many times. The PS1 version is better, but 
 the PC version is still great. 
  
  When I had played RE on PS1 in 1-2 years and then sold the game, it just took me some mounths before 
 I wanted to play it again, and my sisters boyfreind had it on PC, so I installed it and started 
 to play it on my PC. 
  
  It's simply the same like the PS1 version, but I never got that "special feeling" when I played 
 it on PC, but like I said before it's still a great game. It's a copy of the PS1 version and have 
 everything that the PS1 version has, but the reason that I like the PS1 version better is probably 
 because I played it the first times on PS1. But one more very BIG reason is, I have always loved 
 more to play games sitting in my sofa and watching on the big TV screen than sitting with my PC 
 and play, it's a whole different feeling. The only category that's much better on PC's is FPS and 
 strategi games. 
  -That cind of games definitely belongs to PC. 
  
  When I started to play this game on PC, it was one thing I remember I liked more than the PS1 version 
 in the start, that was the loading time when you opening a door, -you could now just take away 
 that loading time with a easy click on a button. But after a while I realized that's one of the 
 "magic" things: 
  -Just to wait these "scary seconds" when you opening a door, the wating to see what's inside the 
 other room... On PC if you want, it can take less than a half second to come in to the other room. 
 Ofcourse you can wait and skip to press the button, and wait like the PS1 version and see when 
 the door opens, but often you don't do that after all... 
  
  Just these things is the reason the PC version is a little worse than the PS1 version. It feels 
 better to sit in my sofa and play in a dark room then front of my computer. But otherwise it's 
 a great game, and here I explain why:
  
  First of all, I have always loved horror movies. And I have always loved games. Before RE came, 
 it just existed one game how was frightening to play: Doom. Then when Resident Evil came nobody 
 had seen a game like that! It was the first horror game in third person view, but ofcourse it was 
 not only a horror game, it had so much more, a great story, great background music, great voices, 
 adventure, puzzles, action etc. It was a simply perfect mix of all these things. I can say directly, 
 that RE is the father of every each horror games we have today... Forget games like the Silent 
 Hill series for example, if never RE should come, Silent Hill would never exist on our planet! 
 
  
  RE is one of the games I have the greatest and funniest memories of, I can't say how many times 
 I've finished this game, I can guess about 30-40 times. I've never played a RE game so much like 
 I have with this. It also has the best story of all of the games in the series. But now don't think 
 I think the others RE is far away, this game is just a step better.
  
  The game was really huge when it came, and it had everything. The story how is totally perfect, 
 have now been little "to much" with the later RE games... (Umbrella and all this, except number 
 four, every other games is about Umbrella and theirs different cind of virus.)
  
  The Story: 
  It's a big mansion a long way out in the forrest, and nobody has reported from there 
 on a very long time, because a lot of people works there, the police believe something is wrong 
 and send one group to the big mansion. 
  
  A little bit from the mansion, the police members called S. T. A. R. S get attack off very, very strange 
 dogs. (You can see blood flow from there teeth and their bones sticking up from their bodies.) 
 One S. T. A. R. S member dies immediately, and all the others run so fast they can to the mansion and 
 finally, the very last second reach the mansion, where they think they safe. 
  Ofcourse, without knowing whats waiting for them in there... 
  
  And here it's where the horrible 
 story start, from the first start of the game it will turn to two different directions, because 
 it depends on wich character you choose to play with. You can choose between Chris Redfield or 
 Jill Valentine. 
  
  Chris starts just with a knife, but he's strong and can take much damage before he dies. Jill starts 
 with a Beretta with a full magazine (15 rounds) and one knife, but she can't take so much damage 
 like Chris can do. 
  Now it turn directly to two different directions. 
  An example:
  We say, if you start with Jill, -Chris Redfield has disappear. You and your team member Barry goes 
 in to a large dinner room to search for him. Soon Barry finds out there is blood on the floor... 
 Barry want to check more on this and you as Jill going in to a room with a corridor and some locked 
 doors, and a little open room. When you discover this little room you will be scared like hell... 
 -Maybe not today, ofcourse RE is some years old now, but the year it came, you would bee scared 
 like hell... 
  
  You can't choose wich difficulty you want to play with, but Jill Valentine is easier to play with 
 than Chris Redfield. So if someone play this game for the first time, I recommend you to play as 
 Jill first.
  
  How longer you pass through the game, you will soon understand more and more whats really has happend 
 with this big mansion.
  (Umbrella works there and have succefully maked the horrible virus called "G-Virus" - the people 
 in this mansion has been infected and they all has became zombies... 
  
  All the letter in this game that you find is very intresting to read and some of them is also really 
 frightening just to read... The other games in the series is just intresting to read, but never 
 become frightening...
  
  Resident Evil has a perfect balance of everything! 
  I told you earlier but here I explain more "careful":
  Here is some few exemple:
  
  +When 
 you least expect something will happened, something will scare you like hell... 
  
  +The background music and how the enemies sounds is totally perfect and all this sounds give the 
 game a really horror atmosphere...
  
  +All the puzzles in this game is really funny, and is not to easy and not to hard. It's perfectly 
 "medium"! 
  
  +When RE came, for the very first time, you had never meet enemies like this before in a game... 
 Big hairy spiders, zombie dogs, a big snake, zombies, crows and a lot of more enemies who even 
 are more scary and dangerous to meet...
  
  + The game become more and more frightening how longer you come trough this game.
  
  + The 
 game has different endings...
  
  Everything of every each thing that I told you about now, was totally new when Capcom released 
 this game, you had never seen something like this in a game before. It's the most frightening RE 
 game in the series and also the most frightening game I've ever played in my whole life, it's really 
 a perfect mix of extremly horror, adventure and action. I love whole the RE series, but like I 
 said before, this is just a step better. 
  It was something magic with this game when it came... 
  
  PS !
  I don't do like 90% of every 
 each other gamer does, go after what's the latest and most fresh, -whats the newest and has the 
 best graphic. 
  I going after how good it was on that year when it came, and how funny I had when I played it. 
 I can say right now, ofcourse I either play RE4 today than RE1. RE1 is to me now a "finished" game, 
 but it still is the greatest game if I compare how it good it was when it came. Continue read my 
 reviews of all the game in this amazing series, I'll make them all!
  
  Again:
  The PS1 version is the best! But the PC version is still great!
  
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
