-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Resident Evil 3: Nemesis
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/adventure/residentevil3nemesis/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun 25, 2001
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.9
Critic Score: 7.5, 14 Review (s)
User Score: 8.2, 1,135 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Capcom
Genre: Horror Action Adventure
Date:     Apr 16, 2001 &raquo;  
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Fans of previous Resident Evil games will like it, but those who have yet to enter the world of 
 survival-horror would do better to start with Resident Evil 2. 

  The third chapter in Capcom's series of horror games isn't the best. It's more straightforward 
 than Resident Evil 2, and it's not as frightening as Resident Evil Code: Veronica. And though it 
 follows the formula of previous Resident Evil games (you'd be hard-pressed to find a more formulaic 
 series) , it does add some new features that help keep the game interesting.           Resident 
 Evil 3 stars Jill Valentine, who first appeared in the original.    

  You control Jill Valentine, one of the playable characters from the first game. Jill has returned 
 to the zombie-infested streets of Raccoon City after resigning as a member of S. T. A. R. S., an elite 
 police unit. She's there to investigate the headquarters of the Umbrella Corporation, the evil 
 conglomerate that is behind the zombie plague. While in the city, she must avoid the constant threat 
 of the nemesis, a tough monster that is hunting down S. T. A. R. S. members and obviously isn't interested 
 in the fact that Jill has quit.   

  It may seem like Resident Evil 3 Nemesis is long on story, but it isn't. You'll only spend a few 
 minutes in the Umbrella headquarters, and the game does little to advance the ongoing story of 
 the series. Instead, it sticks to the basic formula that has made the series popular. You'll solve 
 some door puzzles, fight some zombies, solve some more door puzzles, and then fight some monsters. 
   

  Despite its adherence to this basic formula, Resident Evil 3 is less linear than its predecessors. 
 You get to wander the streets of Raccoon City, or at least you'll be led along the streets that 
 aren't barricaded. The areas open to you at any given time are quite large, and you can accomplish 
 the various tasks in different orders. The only problem with the huge playing field is that you'll 
 spend a great deal of time backtracking, and even though new monsters will appear in old areas, 
 it can still get somewhat tiresome having to run back and forth through the city.   

  The most-welcome new feature is the branching plot points. Occasionally, the screen will go white, 
 and you'll be given two choices for your next action. For instance, the nemesis will have Jill 
 trapped in a burning building. The game will pause, and you'll be given a choice to either hide 
 in the building or jump out the window. Some of the choices will significantly affect the way the 
 story progresses, and this feature will entice those who like the game to go back and play it again 
 to see the different outcomes.   

  Other than this slight alteration, though, the game plays like every Resident Evil game before 
 it. And it has the same problems as those before it. The constantly changing camera angles add 
 suspense, but they occasionally make combat frustrating. Also, the inability to save the game anywhere 
 becomes more frustrating as the game gets harder.           As in previous installments, you'll 
 take on legions of the undead.    

  These complaints are common to most console-to-PC translations, but at least Resident Evil 3 includes 
 some options that take advantage of the PC. You can play the game in high resolution, which makes 
 it look much better than most games that were designed to be played on a television. That's not 
 to say it looks great -- the backgrounds are murky, the fonts look awful, and the cinematics (typically 
 a high point in the Resident Evil games) look blotchy and bad. But the 3D models look good and 
 the higher resolutions do make things look better as compared with Capcom's Dino Crisis or previous 
 PC versions of Resident Evil games.   

  As in Resident Evil 2, the music and sound effects do a good job of keeping the atmosphere creepy. 
 Of course, this is mostly due to the fact that the sound and music are straight out of Resident 
 Evil 2. It's good dramatic music, to be sure, but it's the same music.   

  Resident Evil 3 isn't the best place to start for a newcomer to the series. It's a zombie-killing 
 rampage that lacks the inventive game structure that made Resident Evil 2 so good. You do get some 
 extras with the PC version that had to be unlocked in the PlayStation version: Jill has a few different 
 costumes, and there's a minigame called Mercenaries that gives you two minutes to run through the 
 city killing zombies. But these extras don't do much to offset the fact that Resident Evil 3 is 
 the most generic entry in the series so far. Fans of previous Resident Evil games will like it, 
 but those who have yet to enter the world of survival-horror would do better to start with Resident 
 Evil 2 or Resident Evil Code: Veronica for the Dreamcast.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (23 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: punisher345
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 4, 2009 5:26 pm PT
Review:  Okay you known the drill t virus outbreak reaches the city, zombies every were more creatures like 
 nemesis and so on. The game makes its way to the PC after being ported 2 times this being the 3rd 
 so you know whats happening here folks. This game has minor improvements, with slightly smoother 
 textures, brighter colors, and your choice to choose costumes before playing and i mean all the 
 costumes. Also you get the chance to play mercenaries before beating the game witch gives you know 
 reason to play through the game if you are trying to unlock anything. But if you want to experience 
 all of its PC glory with its easy controls and to play it on a powerful more system like the computer. I'm 
 not going to get into the game play because you should know what its like. But the game really does 
 not offer anything new giving you know reason to pick this up. But if you never played Resident 
 Evil 3 on any system it was on then pick this up if PC gaming is your thing if not pick up the 
 dream cast version or ps1 or game cube but that's nothing special either. So if you want it go for 
 it but your not seeing anything new here or anything being added to the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: imagameluver
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 8, 2008 8:46 pm PT
Review:  In this PC version of Resident Evil 3: Nemesis, the conrols in the game is very complicated for 
 first-time players of this survival horror game. This game gives thrills and is very challenging 
 in a way.
  
  You start the game controlling Jill Valentine, a former S. T. A. R. S. member, and she stars in the 
 previous installment of the game.
  
  In the game, zombies are very slow and the player don't have to worry about them. The zombies in 
 the game comes out of nowhere and are pretty much the same as the others, the only thing that's 
 different is their costume.
  
  Whenever you enter a door, there's always this black background and a door at the center. This 
 could trigger a players excitement. The player would wonder whether there's a zombie in the next 
 room or worse, Nemesis.
  
  If you're not a fan of survival horror games, and would still want to try and play it, this game 
 is good for you. And overall, this game is good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aruna_lk
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 3, 2008 5:35 pm PT
Review:  i played this game for over 5 times and there's so many things going on through my mind right now 
 and i just can't get the right words to write this review. so if i miss something i will edit later!
 
  
  S. T. A. R. S.!!!!!!!!!!!!!! freaking hell :shock:, that's what u hear from the Nemesis for the 1st 
 time. in your very first time you may have to go inside the police station and not fight with Nemesis 
 but if you defeat Nemesis right there you will get a reward and also if you check Brad's corpse 
 you will find the S. T. A. R. S Card with Brad's picture on it.
  
  i had to play this game in a creepy night. i borrowed this game from one of my friends, friend 
 and i had to return it the next morning. so i had no choice except play all night through. i 1st 
 played this game on my PS in 2000 and later i bought the PC game & played it over 4 times.
  
  these good old 1 CD games never die. 
  
  so the bottom line is if you like horror adventure 
 games, you should own this game
  
  
  Imagine Resident Evil 3 with Freedom Fighters game play! 
  i mean shooting with the 3rd person 
 view, throwing grenades & molotovs
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ng2006
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 10, 2007 5:05 am PT
Review:  CAPCOM really has kicked ass by these 2 REs: 2 &amp; 3. RE3 (Like RE2) has a very nice and attracting 
 scenario which pull you through, it's not as romantic as RE2 though. You are a policewoman, Jill. 
 The same as you experienced in RE2 you've got to survive your @$$ through a lot of nasty zombies 
 and mutants and one of these nasty and serious mutants is Nemesis which would be a real pain in 
 your @$$ till the end of the game. During your journey around the Raccon city you'll face with 
 Umbrella mercenaries that one of them gets in with you (Some Romance essence) and even you'll be 
 given a chance to play as him in a short and easy scenario (In order to help the knocked-out Jill 
 till she gets recovered) .
  
  Mutants and weapons have been upgraded in an interesting way as well as beautiful music and magnificent 
 backgrouns. I really enjoyed all these modifications (And yet, I'll enjoy playing it even after 
 I've played it more than 13 times from the begining to the end) but if you want to check out these 
 nice weapons you'll have to defeat the hard-@SS Nemesis and pick up goodies of his corpse which 
 I can hardly say it's an easy job.
  
  Along the main scenario there's an additional mini-scenario named Mercenaries in which you'll play 
 as those guys and you'll have survive some people around the streets and fight your way to a specific 
 point in order to gain some money as reward. When you reach to a soecific amount of money you may 
 buy some powerful weapons which'll help you in main story. I've played this gane both on Win2000 
 and WinXp with facing no bugs and that's another good point for this popular adventure game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: willxcool
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 31, 2007 8:05 am PT
Review:  Resident evil series are the best in horror- survival genre, while in Resident Evil Nemesis, things 
 take a step further by not only revolutionizing the series but by reinventing its action game-play
 
  Here the virus is still at large from the RE2, you control Jill valentine and the Umbrella corp. 
 has something new bigger, bader monster to give you the scare you deserve Nemesis quite an odd 
 name for a monster but it beats naming it the Foe, Nothing has change to its Game-play it the same 
 as its procedures and need not an expert to know how to aim and shoot a zombie, basically you will 
 be moving around trying to shoot and avoid the zombies while you try to figure out the puzzles 
 that the game throws at you, To remind you that the zombies sometimes do jump at you out of nowhere 
 and addition for a huge guy trying to chase you all over raccoon city is pretty chilling and scary, 
 specialty that Nemesis Guy, the bad side is that the aiming system is still hard to come by, I 
 fine it hard to aim for the head where its suppose to do an instant kill for those infected with 
 the virus, tilting up with a little luck will do the trick but still hard for me.
  For a horror game the atmosphere is creepy and great graphics giving a good sense of realism add 
 in the background music and sound it will make you scream like a little girl.
  Get your light out pump up the volume and get ready for to get a fright of your life. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thefearishere07
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jul 27, 2007 10:53 am PT
Review:  this is a great game one of the best in the series they should make a remake like the 1st one when 
 i first got it i felt like it was a suprising masterpiece (because i did not like the 2nd one) . 
 the graphics were brill back then since technolagey moves on and it would be a dream come true 
 if they remade it. its brill and you should try it if you missed it first time round.
  and i know that most people would of back then i would give it now a 8 out of 10. tell me what 
 you think of it.
  
  yours faithfully
  thefearishere07 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hotmanvIx
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 11, 2007 5:51 pm PT
Review:  very hard and wicked scary great game. The only thing keeping it from a 10 is the graphics. the 
 graphics are bad, but altugether this is a great game. it has zombies poping up out of nowhere. 
 the best game i have ever played. extremely hard too. I just jot it today and I have been playing 
 it for two hours and I can't get past the first area. you also run out of ammo quickly. 60 bullets 
 ain't enough to last you ten minutes and when you run out ammo you dont have a knife like in the 
 other games. all in all resident evil 3 is an awsome game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crzy_gurl
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 21, 2007 3:52 pm PT
Review:  By far the best out of the series. This game finally give you a choice of fighting or running away 
 from the big nemesis guy (I usually run, lol) . With its old slimmy headed zoombies still in the 
 picture and those god forsaken evil dogs makes this game very scary. And every hour or so the nemesis 
 guys pops up into the picture to make you jump out of your seat. The music is great in the game, 
 which makes it even more scarier and the fights are spectacular which will have you playing this 
 game all day long. I reconmend every person getting this game if you an RE fan!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryan4u
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 12, 2007 7:07 am PT
Review:  Resident Evil 3: Nemesis is the latest title from Capcom's PlayStation catalogue to receive a quick 
 port to the Dreamcast. However, this Resident Evil game is a bit different from the rest of the 
 series. The game fits neatly into the Resident Evil story and is equally compelling for new-comers 
 and die-hard fans alike. Set after the original game's events, Nemesis begins before Resident Evil 
 2's events but actually finishes afterwards. It helps paint an even larger picture of the widespread 
 chaos Umbrella's leaked T-Virus has caused, turning humans into zombied undead creatures. The original 
 Resident Evil game saw the player explore the mansion the virus leak is believed to have originated 
 from. Resident Evil 3: Nemesis is set in nearby Racoon City, where a once thriving city has been 
 infested with zombies. Nemesis, whom the game's title is derived, is a giant killer zombie creature 
 who continually stalks your character throughout the game. Seemingly created with the sole purpose 
 of killing surviving members of the special squad your character is part of, this monster adds 
 an extra element of increased constant tension to the tried and tested Resident Evil formula, but 
 is it enough to keep the series fresh? The Good Apart from the major addition of the constant stalking 
 from Nemesis, Resident Evil 3 is mostly business as usual. However, for Resident Evil fans who 
 can't get enough of the game's atmosphere and excellent survival horror gameplay this is excellent 
 news. The game is set mostly within the decimated streets and buildings of Racoon City, with the 
 player taking control of Special Squad S. T. A. R. S member Jill, who was the lead female character 
 in the original Resident Evil. Compared to the other Resident Evil titles, the game delivers an 
 incredible sense of immersion merely through the standard flat backdrops. Something lacking in 
 some of Resident Evil: Code Veronica's occasionally bland backdrops is the level of detail found 
 in Nemesis. Practically every still screen is packed with amazing detail. Most of this detail is 
 completely irrelvant because it has no purpose within the game, but this is what contributes to 
 a certain part of Resident Evil. Crashed cars, raging fires, dead bodies, and spectacular set pieces 
 help induce feelings of chaotic terror. The animation is certainly improved in Resident Evil 3 
 over the earlier games, although it's still confined to looking like a later PSX port. Consistent 
 with Resident Evil series, the weapons and enemy design are spot on and proves how talented Capcom's 
 artists really are. Nemesis, at least in my opinion, is the best in the series at constantly shocking 
 and surprising you. Even more so than other Resident Evil games, the soundtrack is used to the 
 best effect here being either misleadingly quiet, loud and horrifying, or ambient and scary. With 
 the surprise element of Nemesis combined with such a haunting audio experience the game will shock 
 you and keep you on the edge of your seat at the best of times. The plot is excellent despite not 
 furthering the Resident Evil story much. The game is perfect to be played by itself or after only 
 playing Code Veronica, as the storyline is never confusing but still complex enough to be compelling. 
 Unlike Code Veronica, which introduced a human face to the Umbrella corporation in the form of 
 the Ashford family, Resident Evil 3 doesn't tell you much extra about the whole virus incident. 
 Despite being immediately accesible and not much of a total plot contributor, Nemesis is far from 
 predictable or boring. Like Code Veronica, Resident Evil 3 has just the one route through the game 
 but this is improved with a new addition to the series, different paths at certain points. Whilst 
 its nothing groundbreaking, there are a number of occasions where you must quickly choose a plot 
 path which Jill will take. For example, at one point Nemesis has chased Jill into the old Racoon 
 Press Office into a burning room. At this point you get a choice flashing up on screen whether 
 you want Jill to jump out of a nearby window or whether she should hide in the burning room. As 
 a result of this the game is the least linear of all the Resident Evil's so far, which certainly 
 makes it feel a lot more like your controlling Jill's destiny, rather than playing out a predefined 
 story in the game. Two other new addition found in Resident Evil 3 are health and ammo items positions 
 differing every time you play the game from the start, as well as my particular favourite; the 
 ability to mix your own ammo! Using the reloader device Jill starts with, along with collected 
 gunpowder types the player can mix and match to create normal and special ammo types including 
 explosive shotgun shells! Along with a selection of single player mission difficulty options, these 
 extra options add a touch of longetivity to the game and make it all the more appealing to players 
 new to the Resident Evil series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sweet_serene99
Rating: 7.3
Date: Dec 11, 2006 6:59 am PT
Review:  Resident Evil: Nemesis scared the crap out of me, I'll be totally honest. I was always a big fan 
 of Resident Evil and this new game was something I knew I had to play. It does not disappoint.
 
  
  While the graphics and controls seem a little dated, the atomspheric feel of the game is not to 
 be missed. RE3 does a great job of planting you into Racoon City, and you can feel the terror Jill 
 Valentine feels as she struggles to evade Nemesis himself - one of the most terrifying 'villains' 
 in RE, ever. Everytime you catch sight of this smart, fast, and strong monster, your heart skips 
 a beat. Very rarely does a game make me feel that terrified. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cheatdealer
Rating: 4.1
Date: Sep 25, 2006 3:05 pm PT
Review:  This is quite possibly one of the worst games I have ever played in my life!!!!!
  
  You should know the story already so I won't explain. If your knew to the series, play the others 
 first and skip this one. The camera angles are pretty horrible when trying to find things and when 
 battling zombies.
  
  The game is actually kind of good as in some parts of the storyline and the weapons and you can 
 run around all over the place. But this option can get you sidetracked and the zombies appear in 
 the same places everytime!!!!
  
  The music makes the game really freakin' scary though and it adds suspense to the game.
  
  
 Thank you for your time. Now go play this bad game if you want to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gentazo
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 1, 2006 10:49 am PT
Review:  A revolutionary game made by Capcom.
  The game is horror adventure. There are two films made it which cares the
  name Resident evil. Also 
 I know that there will be third film. Let's hope.
  Anywhay the game is original. I play it few years ago on Playstation 1.
  And I can say it's not 
 bad .The main character is a women .I forgot her name. I must say Capcom has done a great job. Resident 
 evil has many many fans. I am waiting for Resident evil 5. The new game. You understand me? Take a 
 breath and play the game. The story is strog part of the game 
  and the level desighn. enjoy. BY 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cmpunmu3
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 30, 2006 6:11 pm PT
Review:  Some areas are similar to RE2, but plot is different - interesting and original. Horrifying ambient 
 sounds and groans of zombies will keep you awake even if you haven't slept for a week!
  Here's more agile and powerful monsters to encounter, than in the RE2, and you can make your own 
 grenade launcher ammo to wipe them all out!
  Nemesis going to appear in your way, but it's better to avoid unnecessary fights with him, unless 
 you want to rip him off some items when he dies, but it doesn't worth the effort (though it is 
 possible to find something rare on him) .
  I like the idea to unlock different files after finishing the game with a good score - helps you 
 getting to know games' story better! You'll have to use your logic quite often by solving puzzles 
 to proceed to main quests.
  Be aware, this game contains horrifying scenes, a lot of blood and snappy events that may schock 
 you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tnjiric
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 22, 2006 2:02 am PT
Review:  Resident evil 3 is unique. I've played every single new horror game, Forbidden Siren 2, every Sillent 
 Hill, Condemned Criminal origins... I'm telling you, there is nothing better than RE3. When you enter 
 the game, you imediately get that scary feeling... Entering movie iz something worth seeing for more 
 than ten times! It give's you a picture about "how are things in Racoon city".. and they are not 
 so good. You feel totally alone.. and nobody else in there.. Graphics at that time was something amazing, but 
 now it's not so good. : ( But even today that cameras gives you shivers, and trough the game you 
 are always wondering what is waiting for you behind the corner. Sound in the game gave it special 
 ambient... You are jumpy and always waiting for something to attack you... and then when you just 
 step on broken glas and hear the noise.. you start to shake... AMAZING! Everything is pumped up with 
 great story and feelings between the people.. Everyone wants to survive, no matter what! Nemesis is 
 THE scariest creature ever.. His "Staars" relly gives you the creeps. We are still waiting Resident 
 evil 5 ,but no one can rach RE3 because it's the greatest survival horror ever made. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oddballrulez
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 18, 2006 6:39 am PT
Review:  ever since i got the game i cant stop thinking about it! everything about it is awesome (exept 
 the voice acting. wich is quite commical really) i thought i was addicted!!
  but anyway, the game. You play as S. T. A. R. S member Jill Valentine in her last attempt to escape 
 the overrun raccoon cit. As you go through the game you encounter a number of mercaneries who have 
 been sent in by umbrellato give reports on the spreading virus. You get chummy with a young man 
 named carlos, (who fancies himself) and become buxxom buddies. (excuse the term)
  anyway, your being chased by i psycho creation from umbrella called NEMESIS. he's a badass. you 
 fight him around 11 times in the game.
  and without spoiling all the plots and twists ill end there.
  the gameplay is fantastic.
  graphics 
 for the time were great.
  sound is generally magnificent.
  value. 6 hours first play, easily worth another few runs.
  Tilt. ME LIKE LOTS! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Siberianhusky89
Rating: 7.8
Date: Apr 15, 2006 12:38 am PT
Review:  This is a GOOD Resident Evil at least, but not the best in opinion. You're Jill Valentine (STAR 
 member and main character in Resident Evil 1) and the city of Racoon City is now infected, now 
 you must escape with other survivors you find on the way, but along the way you run into another 
 project of Umbrella that keeps trying to kill you... Nemesis! Now your main objective is to leave 
 Racoon City ASAP before it's bombed to hell and everything in Racoon City is sent sky high. The 
 game is a bit easy somewhat and along the way, you can choose certain actions in certain points 
 in the game, unlike the other Resident Evil, but unlike the other Resident Evil you only get to 
 play as Jill. Mattering on what you choose helps depends how much harder the game will be or helps 
 you get more items that you will have use for to keep up through the game, because like in every 
 Resident Evil, when you make it far enough, you eventually won't have enough bullets left. But 
 this is an alright, not BEST but still good 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nss_120
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 5, 2006 9:54 am PT
Review:  I have played this game 2 years ago and I have been so impatient to learn and my time to play it 
 very easy has finally arrived after my consecutive playing of this game in many weeks on my pc, 
 I felt so satisfied on using Mikhail on the mercenaries game and I have also managed to use Nikholai 
 also!! And today I'm on my way to unlock Jill's diary without looking into the spoilers, It's really 
 fun to unlock the game's in-plots and secrets just by playing it on hard mode everytime. I have 
 already unlocked 2 of the EPILOGUES and I'm playing again to unlock the third one! I really want 
 to unravel the mysteries of the game just by playing it, it is the thrill of this game and it is 
 the very important part of a game's story.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mort2fire
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 3, 2006 2:13 pm PT
Review:  Nemesis is the third game in the Resident Evil series, but it doesn't really fit into the storyline. 
 If anything, it is a side-story that occurs while the events of Resident Evil 2 are happening elsewhere. 
 Anyway, here's the story: due to the deadly T-Virus, the once peaceful burgh known as Raccoon City 
 has turned into a seething orgy of horror. Flesh-eating zombies have taken over the streets and 
 constantly threaten any humans unlucky enough to be trapped in the town. You are Jill Valentine, 
 an elite police officer (with the STARS unit) who resigned just days after the grisly events that 
 took place in the original Resident Evil. 
  Your goal is to blast your way out of the city, the whole time avoiding a new super-zombie called 
 "Nemesis" who appears periodically throughout the game to mess up your life. As survival horror 
 goes, Resident Evil 3 is at the top of the game. In fact, outside of Code: Veronica, Nemesis is 
 probably the best survival horror game ever made. The story is intriguing and creepy, the villains 
 are appropriately gross and the action is intense and sometimes genuinely scary. Everything in 
 the game conspires to produce a wonderfully cinematic experience. By the time you're done taking 
 down the Nemesis for the final time, you feel as if you've been through a war... and that's when 
 you know you've been seriously engaged by a game. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Orasion_Seiz
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 17, 2006 5:24 am PT
Review:  This is the third chapter in Capcom's survival horror game, Resident Evil. Its probably the most 
 exciting of them all and the most challenging. There are some new features and additions that makes 
 the game so interesting.
  
  You play as Jill Valentine, in which she is one of the main characters during the first game. After 
 resigning as a S. T. A. R member, she went back to Racoon City to investigate the infamous Umbrella 
 Corporation, who is behind of all the evil things going on in the city. As she do her investigation, 
 she must overcome a monster called Nemesis, who is powerfull than a normal zombie or monster. Now 
 this isnt the kind of game in which you can actually run away from a monster, here Nemesis will 
 chase you whenever you go and he will do everything on his power to squash you like a bug. Apart 
 from Nemesis there will be the numerous number of zombies and mutated monsters that will keep you 
 busy, not to mention the challenging puzzles in the game.
  
  One of the features of the game is the ability to make decisions. Occasionally the screen will 
 turn white and you will be given two choices as your next action. Some of these will affect the 
 storyline some will not so better choose your decisions wisely. Other than that the gameplay is 
 still the same as the previous Resident Evil games. The only thing probably will irritate gamers 
 is the camera angles. It takes time to get use to it especially on combats. While the graphics 
 are the same in the PS version, this version on the PC allows you to play in high resolution. Also 
 the music and sound effects really make this game fantastic and it also gives that scary feeling 
 as you play. 
  
  i wont recomend this game for those who want to start with the Resident Evil series. its better 
 to start where it all started for those who havent tasted the world of Resident Evil. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shadowcloud21
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 19, 2006 10:17 am PT
Review:  Everyone knows that Resident Evil is the most frightening game series to ever come out of Capcom, 
 or any videogame company at that. Resident Evil was the first truly scary game that made people 
 actually scream! Resident Evil 2 was another chilling nightmare that brought gamers into the hell 
 hole that was Raccoon City, but now, another chapter begins. Resident Evil 3: Nemesis was another 
 great Resident Evil game, but the only thing that killed it was that the mutated killing machine, 
 Nemesis, was usually the only boss you ever fought and he always got harder. The cinematics introduce 
 more horrifying mayhem as you watch S. T. A. R. S. members fight to retake control of Raccoon City, 
 only to become more members of the zombies' growing army. You play as Jill Valentine who was also 
 a character in the first game. You return to Raccoon City and find only what Claire and Leon for 
 #2 found, a zombie outbreak. To survive, you must conquer your fear and plunge deeper into the 
 evil Umbrella Corporation's dark secrets. The graphics are somewhat improved from the second game, 
 there are more details, but not a lot. Gameplay is only hard to a gamer who has never played the 
 other two games, but for a RE fan, it will be a piece of cake. The fantastic voice acting returns, 
 along with the bone-chilling roar-of-a-voice that belongs to Nemesis. You will face some enemies 
 that are the same, like the undead and the mutant dogs, but there are a lot more terrifying enemies, 
 waiting to rip Jill's throat out around the corner. Nemesis was both a great improvement and a 
 flaw. He appears way too often and can't seem to want to leave you alone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: michael_delta
Rating: 7.7
Date: Nov 2, 2005 8:17 am PT
Review:  You've read the title, and that's exactly what you should do!!! This game may not be as brilliant 
 as it's predecessors but it still has some new stuff that has never been shown in past Resident 
 Evil games. Like for example, Jill (a Major Character in RE 1 in case you haven't played it) , can 
 now do escape moves when a zombie attacks and all. You also have an extra button feature where 
 it "Automatically" locks on an explosive device such as fuel cans and such and such. 
  
  NOW FOR THE GOOD STUFF:
  What makes the game a lot more thrilling and suspence is the fact that 
 a "Tyrant" (so-called) is chasing you around town trying to kill you. Not to mention the fact he's 
 wielding a rocket launcher!! The only safe haven is for you is to stay in a safe room or in some 
 places. You also have a "choice" feature once in an event where you can change the storyline. 
 
  
  But then again, the thrill is all that it is as well as the "new" stuff. You'll find out how EASY 
 this game truly is. Herbs and First Aid Sprays are everywhere. Bosses aren't that challengeing, 
 once you get the pattern you'll find out a way to beat it that's why it does tend to get boring 
 in awhile but you'll get over it.
  
  If you like, you should try to play the game with only one herb, that should bring the challenge! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nico4
Rating: 5.3
Date: Oct 28, 2005 7:02 am PT
Review:  After been released on PSone and Dreamcast Capcom have decided to release RE3 on PC but does it 
 hold up?
  The game takes place 2 hours before RE2 the Raccoon City citzens have been infected with the T-Virus 
 and now eveybody is zombies Jill Valentine (hero of RE1) have resigned from S. T. A. R. S and as the 
 zombies are attacking Raccoon City she decides to escape Raccoon City.
  The gameplay is the same as RE2 with some new features now Jill can dodge and sidestep and she 
 can also turn 180 degress which is a welcoming feature the only bad thing about the dodge and sidestep 
 move is that the game does that almost eveytime a emeny comes close to you and thats iretatting 
 if your using a shotgun.
  You can also costmise your own ammo its simple combine gun powder A and gun powder B for example 
 to make some ammo however youll need a tool that youll get at the beginning.
  In the addation to the PC version players can play the hidden Mercenaries game and select some 
 costumes without completing the game good? tell you later in the review.
  Whats new in RE3 is that at some point in the game you can chose what you want and so on for example 
 when you fight Nemeis for the first time the game asks you do you want to fight the monster or 
 escape into the police station and you have to be quick about your decidions because you only got 
 a couple of seconds to make them.
  The game can be run at high-res which makes the game pretty however the backgrounds dosnt look 
 so good.
  The music is pretty good bt the voice acting is bad but far from the worst in the series.
  The 
 game takes about 10 hours to complete and there are 2 endings according to a cirtian choice youll 
 make at a cirtan point in the game otherwise theres not much replay value because eveything have 
 been opened up.
  Overall RE3 is a great game but its story is more like a sidestory dispite it have the 3 in its 
 name and they decided to stay at the basic fomula that maked the RE series so popular also the 
 game is starting to show its age.
  If you got the previous RE games on PC you should buy this if you own the previous RE games on 
 PSone or Dreamcast avoid this version if your new to the RE series and only have a PC you probaly 
 wanna start with RE2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NnyCW
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 9, 2005 2:53 am PT
Review:  Resident Evil 3: Nemesis adds a nice touch to the Resident Evil formula. Not only do you have to 
 deal with oncoming hordes of zombies, but now you have another worry... being chased by a Nemesis 
 that will come after you no matter what you do to try and stop it. The addition of Nemesis made 
 this game one of the most enjoyable, and my favorite of the Resident Evil's. The addition to now 
 be able to walk up stairs without pressing a button really did help way back when, though wondering 
 how that was ever not a feature in the games is a bit of a puzzlement. And on the subject of puzzles, 
 the only flaw this game has is the "water puzzle" near the end of the game. Only because it is 
 totally random. Meaning you can get lucky and solve it in 20 seconds, or it could take about 30 
 minutes to beat. But other than that, this is a great game that any Resident Evil fan should have 
 in their collection. NnyCW for Capcom City. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
