-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Resident Evil 4
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/adventure/residentevil4/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Exciting action sequences pit you against awesome enemies and fearsome bosses.
 character models and environments look sharp and realistic.
 superb sound design keeps you on the edge of your seat.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Controller required, thanks to complete lack of mouse support and mediocre keyboard controls.
 blurry cutscenes and other visual issues detract from the spooky ambiance.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: May 22, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.8
Critic Score: 7.5, 15 Review (s)
User Score: 7.8, 2,130 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ubisoft
Developer: Capcom
Genre: Horror Action Adventure
Date:     May 15, 2007 &raquo;  
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Resident Evil 4's strong gameplay somehow manages to survive, despite a lazy porting job that will 
 leave some PC owners wondering what all the fuss was about. 

  In 2005, Resident Evil 4 on the Nintendo GameCube was rightfully lauded as one of the best action 
 adventure games ever released, thanks to stunning visuals and white-knuckle action sequences that 
 ranked amongst the best in gaming. Later that year, PlayStation 2 owners were blessed with their 
 own version of the game, featuring more missions and some other unlockable goodies. And now you 
 can play Resident Evil 4 on your PC for a mere $20. It's too bad that PC gamers have been inflicted 
 with a lazy port that does as little as possible to cater to the platform. Forget mouse support, 
 forget tailoring the visuals to your own preferences, and don't even think about any PC-only goodies: 
 this is a direct transfer of the PlayStation 2 version. If you can get past all these problems, 
 RE4 is still an intense, thrilling ride that will keep your heart pounding. But if you still haven't 
 played Resident Evil 4, this version should be your last resort.  

          There's nothing like fresh calamari.     

  In case you haven't gotten wind of what 
 the game is all about, you play as Leon S. Kennedy, a secret agent in charge of recovering the 
 president's kidnapped daughter. His search leads to a creepy Spanish village where the residents 
 are, well, not quite lucid. The story drops the occasional clich, but for the most part, it avoids 
 the usual horror pratfalls to deliver an interesting and intense narrative with a number of fascinating 
 characters. It's also genuinely creepy, leading you through abandoned farmhouses, dank churches, 
 and dripping caves, all the while throwing progressively weirder and stronger enemies at you. Like 
 the PS2 version, it also includes a side story called Separate Ways, where you take control of 
 spy Ada Wong and explore some of the same storyline from her perspective.  

  The success of a survival horror game has a lot to do with its atmosphere, and this version of 
 Resident Evil 4 features plenty of it. But that isn't to say that it looks superior to the GameCube 
 and PS2 versions. Character models and environments are beautifully designed. They were also obviously 
 created with deliberate care and detail. Of particular note are the boss characters, which get 
 more vulgar and imposing as you progress. But a lot of ambiance has been lost in the translation. 
 Because the grainy fog is gone, everything looks clearer but less sinister than before. It also 
 means that you notice a lot of low-resolution textures that greatly contrast with the more remarkable 
 aspects of the visuals. However, the cutscenes are the biggest graphical drawback. While the GameCube 
 version of the game rendered the cinematics in real time, this one borrows the prerendered scenes 
 from the PS2. They are blurry and badly compressed on the PC, as well as a little unsightly. Additionally, 
 you cannot tailor any visual settings, aside from the display resolution.  

  Thankfully, the audio doesn't suffer much, if at all. Resident Evil 4 is a sonic spookfest, from 
 the creepy minimalist soundtrack to the outstanding weapon effects. In fact, the most memorable 
 aspects of the game are accompanied by equally thrilling audio, such as the roar of the gigantic 
 bosses or the disturbing murmurs of villagers as they infiltrate your personal space. For what 
 it's worth, Pro-Logic II technology is supported while true Dolby 5.1 is not, yet it's not likely 
 to impact your experience much, particularly if you use a decent set of speakers.  

  The biggest oversight amongst all these porting issues is that of controls. Resident Evil 4 doesn't 
 support mouse controls, though it does offer a mildly clumsy keyboard-only scheme. Plenty of console-centric 
 games play better with a gamepad, but there wasn't even an attempt to implement decent PC controls 
 here. To experience the game the way it's meant to be played, you need to plug in a gamepad. Whichever 
 method you choose, the controls present an issue during the famous context-sensitive moments that 
 require a few split-second button presses. If you end up using the keyboard controls, make sure 
 to memorize which key is button 1, which key is button 2, and so on. The same issue exists with 
 a controller, though it's a bit easier to get the button presses right because the in-game diagrams 
 are tailored toward gamepad users.  

  Once you get past all these issues and plug in your controller, you'll find this is the same Resident 
 Evil 4 that multitudes of players have grown to appreciate. It's a carefully paced, often breathtaking 
 action game that keeps you on the edge of your seat with lumbering almost-zombies, chanting cultists, 
 and challenging fights against gargantuan bosses. You view the action from a third-person view, 
 and when you ready a weapon, the camera zooms in close. Once you've drawn your weapon, you can't 
 move, but you  can  aim. It all feels very deliberate, but it's perfectly countered by the measured 
 speed at which your enemies approach you. However, you shouldn't take this to mean that the action 
 is any less exciting than in a traditional shooter. These are dangerous foes, and you've got to 
 pump them full of lead before they fall.  

  The fundamental combat is where the game shines most. Your arsenal consists of pistols, shotguns, 
 rifles and more, with every weapon producing credible results. Popping pitchfork-wielding villagers 
 will cause them to drop their weapons. Or you can shoot them in the knees to make them momentarily 
 fall to the ground. Because ammunition is not terribly plentiful, being able to handle a crowd 
 of shambling psychopaths with as few shots as possible is a main priority. You've always got a 
 knife as a last resort, but unless you want to take a chunk of damage, it's better to keep your 
 distance.  

          The cutscenes are blurrier than a Barbara Walters special.     

  Contextual actions also contribute to the general sense of urgency. Don't expect to sit back and 
 snooze during the cutscenes because many of them require interaction in the form of a couple of 
 button presses. If you're sleeping at the wheel, Leon will be crushed by a boulder or strangled 
 by a hulking foe, and you'll be treated to a game-over screen. Other context-sensitive actions 
 allow you to jump from a window, catch a companion from above, use a grappling hook, and more, 
 depending on the onscreen action.  

  There's a lot of gameplay to be had here, with close to 30 hours of high-quality action and a few 
 good reasons to head back once you're done. It's a shame that the PC got shafted with such a lazy 
 port. It's also hard not to wonder why Capcom and Ubisoft even bothered with it. The PS2 version 
 is unchanged in the sloppy transition to PC, so if you have no other way of experiencing Resident 
 Evil 4 and own a gamepad, the core gameplay and budget price are enough reason to pick it up. Otherwise, 
 pick up a different version and hope that the developers show a little more respect for the platform 
 next time around.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (122 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Meat_Bag
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 16, 2009 3:47 am PT
Review:  First of all, I LOVE Resident Evil series. 
  That being said, I can simply assume that everyone else who reads this review is a huge fan as 
 well. I mean, how can you not love Resident Evil in the first place? It's a game that practically 
 created survival horror genre. Silent Hill, Alone In The Dark, Dino Crisis, Obscure and other spooky 
 games owe everything to the very first zombie smasher of all time. The blood-and-guts king of everything 
 that is bloody and gruesome, Resident Evil. All in all, it was one of the most important things 
 that ever happened to the gaming world. 
  
  So, after many years, and many sequels, which were not nearly as good as the first two, we finally 
 have a game that is truely worth our time and money. A Resident Evil sequel that lives up to it's 
 name, and once more shakes the gaming world to the ground. Get ready for a ride of your life, people, 
 because Resident Evil 4 has hit the PC! 
  
  From the very box cover, it becomes obvious that Capcom finally realised that old-school survival 
 horror games far overstayed their welcome, and decided to change things completely. The result 
 is one of the best games that ever saw the light of day. That's right, dear reader, forget clunky 
 controls, annoying puzzles, run-of-the-mill survival gameplay and boring old spooky mansions. The 
 first thing that you will notice about this game is an entirely different control scheme. No more 
 fixed camera angles, this time you see your character from behind all the time. With a simple press 
 of a button, you can raise your weapon and aim wherever you please, which makes the game a lot 
 more tactical. For example, you can shoot an enemy in the leg and slow him down, or aim for a stack 
 of dynamite he's carrying and blow an entire group of enemies to smithereens. It's all up to you, 
 not the auto aim feature.
  
  It may not sound like much, but this control scheme is actually pretty amazing. The camera always 
 stays right behind your character, so you have a good view of the situation, and at the same time 
 you really have a feeling you're actually there, not in the comfort of your living room, watching 
 a slasher movie. And the controls are pretty responsive and accurate. If you have a good gamepad, 
 that is...
  That's actually the first big issue with this game - don't even try it without a gamepad. Unlike 
 Prince Of Persia where, even without a gamepad, you can have great fun with the default keyboard-mouse 
 setup, Resident Evil 4 will make you break your fingers. Even tough you can customize your controls, 
 there's simply no way this game can be played with only a keyboard. This, or any other 3D game, 
 for that matter. Forget mouse support, forget easy aiming, just buy a damn gamepad! 
  
  But hey, if you can do that, you're in for a hell of a time! 
  So anyway, once again you jump 
 into shoes of Leon S. Kennedy, a veteran zombie smasher of Resident Evil 2. This time, our pretty 
 boy is off to Spain, to find the president's missing daughter, Ashlee. And that's where your adventure 
 begins - in a forest near some backwater Spanish village. Your first mission is to reach the village 
 and check out the rumor that says Ashlee's been seen there. But that's just the beginning, on your 
 way to find the little pesky Barbie girl you'll visit a lot of different, creepy locations. I'm 
 not gonna say anything more, because it would be a heck of a spoiler. Let's just say that all the 
 locations are simply spectacular.
  
  Off we go to the weapons section then... well, you start off with a simple handgun. That much is 
 obvious. As you progress, you get your hands on more hardware. Shotguns, SMGs, sniper rifles... 
 plenty of ways to catch a rabbit. Not to spoil all the fun, let's just say you'll see plenty of 
 explosions as well... But oh, we haven't even mentioned the most important thing in this zombie 
 shooter - there are no zombies here at all! That's right, Capcom decided that enough is enough, 
 and abandoned the whole zombie thing. So this time you're actually fighting the local natives gone 
 insane, as well as all other kinds of monsters, animals, etc. Which makes it all the more scary. 
 Believe me, an angry mob with sickles, axes and piercing, glowing eyes is a lot scarier than a 
 few moaning zombies we've already seen for a thousand times. As for the boss fights, well... they 
 get insanely difficult after a while, but those are still some of the best boss fight we've seen 
 in years.
  
  The story, as you already guessed, seems simple enough, but after a while it gets a lot more interesting, 
 and disturbing. I also have to mention some pretty good (altou not great) voice acting that pumps 
 up the atmosphere even further. And so, here we reach the second big issue of this game - crappy, 
 grainy in-game cutsceenes that might've looked great on PS2 or GC consoles, but not on a PC monitor. 
 It's clear that they didn't do a thing to actually adjust the big TV graphics for PC standards. 
 Even tough the game itself looks wonderful, cutsceenes are simply abysmal. Which simply kills the 
 whole creepy, horror movie experience. Sad, really sad...
  
  But hey, despite these shortcomings, this is still one of the best games ever, thanks to it's well-balanced 
 gameplay, story, settings, characters, sounds and overall feeling of "Oh, wow! What a great game!". 
 Because of sloppy PC conversion it cannot score 10, but hey, if you have a good gamepad and you 
 don't mind the occasional crappy cutsceenes, this is a game you will enjoy for years to come. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: antipunt1
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 8, 2009 2:14 am PT
Review:  Before I start this review there are two crucial messages with regards to putting everything else 
 I say into perspective:
  
  1. I am rating this game based off my experience playing with both a gamepad and tweaks from the 
 modding community. 
  
  2. I'm basing my review score for RE4 on the game itself, not 'RE4 for the PC', if that makes any 
 sense. If it was the latter, the score would be more like a 7. (I will explain why I did this later 
 on.)
  
  So essentially, I realize this is a crappy port; an undeniably sloppy job, ranging from graphical 
 issues to no mouse support, etc. etc. Bleh.
  
  That said, I'm extremely lucky to have a functional gamepad and mods to make the game look much 
 better. Not all problems were fixed though; for example, cutscenes were still muddled a bit and 
 sometimes the lacked of anti-aliasing would kill me.
  
  So why then, such a high score? In part it's because I did not expect 'the game' to be this good. 
 I mean, people say R. E. 4 is a good game, but I thought some of this was merely hype. I was wrong.
 
  
  This game was very satisfying, and I've played many games. Despite it being a couple years old, 
 it still has all the elements of a great title. Interesting and creative boss battles/level design. 
 A difficulty curve that's just right (not too hard nor easy) . A story that is design 'well enough' 
 that you (mildly) care. Characters were also relatively likable. I mean, besides the occasional 
 cheesy lines, I really have few complaints with this game. Puzzles were also intuitive enough not 
 to give you a headache. 
  
  The best part of the game by far is its gameplay. Your main character, Leon, is sent into the middle 
 of Spanish-nowhere to recover the kidnapped daughter of the President. To uncover the mystery lying 
 within, you will start with rather weak weapons and barely any ammo. Normally in this scenario, 
 you would experience massive tedium, but RE4 pulls it off. As you upgrade and build your character, 
 you will feel extremely accomplished. The way they designed this was just so impressive; I was 
 a little shocked at how much fun I was having 'conserving' ammo. In addition, the level design 
 is varied and doesn't feel forced, a lesson that Wanted WoF could learn a great deal from. Legitimately 
 fun, well designed nonstop action. Throw in the quick-time events and whew, you'll have the recipe 
 for an unforgettable joyride.
  
  All in all, I've never played a RE game before, and this game impressed me on almost all levels 
 (biggest complaint being story nitpicks, but meh, it's Capcom right?) . The most serious complaints 
 I have with the game are, of course, related to the porting issues. But the problem is if I gave 
 'RE4' a low score, it wouldn't really do justice. I rate games based on impact, so ultimately, 
 I made the decision to rate RE4 based off 'the game' itself (with added mods/gamepad) . 
  
  A fantastic game with an unforgivable porting issue... RE4 still remains in my memory as being a 
 rather impressive game that I expected much less from. Recommended, but as others emphasize, definitely 
 try to get another version (rather than PC) . If you are stuck with PC (like I was) , make sure you 
 integrate the mods. Also, a gamepad is -a must-. I cannot emphasize this enough; if you try to 
 play without one (even with mouse support enabled) you will be clawing your eyes out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hotbodyboy_2006
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 31, 2009 10:55 am PT
Review:  Resident Evil 4 is one of those PS2 classics which i have played very late in my life and am very 
 happy about it. Most of the people have played RE4 even before God of war and other PS2 games. 
 Released in 2004, this game has been inspirations for many games.
  
  I have played RE4 after all these games, and according to me its By Far the Best Playstation 2 
 game and could have been one of the Best PC Games if not for the porting.
  
  Resident Evil 4 unlike God Of War (the so called best playstation 2 game and my third favorite 
 game on the PS2) has a much better protagonist and its not all about combat, gore and puzzle solving. 
 One of the few reasons why its better than GOW for me.
  
  On top Resident Evil 4 is a damn realistic game. Makes you feel as if you are playing the game, 
 a feature which the old SNES and DOS games (Prince Of Persia, Flashback) had but which is missing 
 in most of the games today. The next gen games are simply too pathetic and incomparable to Resident 
 Evil 4 and that i think mostly includes even its sequel Resident Evil 5.
  
  The Story is amazing right from the start and the game sucks you in. A parasite called Las Plagas 
 is spread among the people in different parts of the world. The US gov sterlizes the parasite thus 
 eliminating the virus. Someone called Lord Saddler in Spain is not happy with it. BTW Saddler is 
 the guy who starts this all. While excavating the Las Plagas, the villagers who excavate it also 
 get it.
  
  So Saddler kidnaps the US President's daughter. You play as LEON who according to me is one of 
 the most charming and coolest attitude protagonist in any game.
  
  LEON is hired by the president to provide security to his daughter. But since she is kidnapped, 
 the task of finding her also is given to Leon.
  
  The first level itself is pretty spooky. You are heading to this village which has infected Villagers. 
 They have different weapons such as Pix Axe, Axe. One of them has a Chain saw and is known as Dr. Salvator.
 
  
  Thus the story is very well told. There are almost no loop holes in the story. The background of 
 every character is well told. Characters from the previous Resident Evil games also make an appearance. 
 Few examples include the sexy Ada and her boss Wesker.
  
  The Gameplay of RE4 is absolutely amazing. This is one of the very first games that introduced 
 Quick time events but on a very small scale but a feature which was implemented by later games 
 like God Of War on a very Large scale.
  
  Anyways this game has very few QTEs. They only appear when needed and not in excess. For example 
 - QTEs appear when you have to dodge an attack. Most of the gameplay involves using your inventory 
 to select different weapons like Handguns, shotguns, Rifles etc. to use. Every gun has a Red Laser 
 which is nothing but a substitute for cross-hair. Apart from that, when you make an enemy groggy 
 by shooting and go near him, you also get a QTE option for pressing a button and Leon perfoms some 
 cool moves like Super Kicks and Belly To Belly Suplex.
  
  There are various other items you get on your Long journey like Treasures, gems which you can combine. 
 You get Herbal Plants * First Aid Spray for health. The currency for this game is PESOS. This game 
 takes place in Spain and so it has the old Spanish currency which was Pesos. Oh btw! By now you 
 must have known that you can buy and sell stuffs. That's the beauty of this game. You combine various 
 treasures and rack up their Selling Price and thus sell them. You get to buy new weapons or Tune 
 up existing weapons.
  
  The gore in this game is really nice and in correct proportions and not overly done.
  
  The 
 enemies are superb. They never get boring and all play differently in Easy, normal and professional 
 modes.
  
  Bosses are one the best features in this game. They are pretty intimidating and well done. You 
 need a different strategy for each one.
  
  The Presentation or Intro for each enemy and Boss is Impressive. One of the best features of Capcom's 
 very own Devil May Cry, put to great use in Resident Evil 4.
  
  Graphics - Graphics of this game are Excellent. The environments of every area is made with lots 
 of effort and really looks live. The water graphics in this game is by far the best Water Graphics 
 among all the PS2 games. The environments all give a very feel good factor.
  
  The Sound and the Music is impressive. Voice Acting Excellent. The Spanish narration is also done 
 well. Several words such as Un Forestero, Muere, muiris is vivir etc. are some which i remember. 
 Overall the english dialogs, the words used are simply impeccable and make you feel as if you are 
 playing a high class movie like Shawshank Redemption.
  
  Even after playing the MAIN Game, the game doesn't get over. You unlock modes like Separate Ways 
 in which you play from the perspective of Ada. This mode fills up even the little loops holes that 
 were left in the Main Game. Ada Assignment is also another mode in which you have to collect Las 
 Plagas Samples.
  
  Mercenaries mode is by far the most addicting mode and regarded as some as even better than the 
 main game. The reason is simple - You get to choose what map you want to play. You get to play 
 not only as Leon, but also as Wesker, Krauser, Ada, Hunk. And you can kill as many enemies you 
 want under a variable time (variable as you can open chests for bonus time) .
  
  It is small features like these that make this such an Epic Masterpiece and made it get High Scores.
 
  
  Overall, Resident Evil 4 is a MUST PLAY for any action-adventure fan. It is quite truly one of 
 the Greatest Games ever made in my opinion.
  
  The PC port is not good. I played on the PC using joysticks. So i would suggest that to get the 
 complete satisfaction from this game play it in your Gamecube (it has all features) or your Playstation 
 2. If you have PC, better get a Joystick else RE4 is gonna suck. Its pretty evident from the ratings. 
 9.6 for GC, 9.4 for PS2 and 7.9 for PC.......
  
  But 9.6, infact 10 is a true score for this game. When MGS 4 or GTA 4 can get it, why can't this.
 
  
  The graphics in PC were really amazing and the joystick allowed for smooth gameplay. I never encountered 
 a single glitch. Never felt bored. This game has HIGH REPLAY VALUE. I am currently going through 
 my 3rd run in this game - Normal Mode. This game is Perfect. Hope i don't end up hating Resident 
 Evil 5.
  
  This has become one of my favorite games of all time and i give it a rating of PERFECTION - 100/100.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: megatrunks
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 20, 2009 4:28 am PT
Review:  This game is fantastic and its garafic is high. Its stroy is diffrent than other games in the series 
 but it full of adventure and action. In my opinion it is the best game ever in pc in fear games. 
 It gaves me alot of fun when I play it and I never feel boring because it is not ending when I 
 finish it in the firist time. Capcom was smart when it improved this game in graphic and sounds 
 and make it suitable in playing and i hope that it make another addition in pc soon with the same 
 chracter ( Leon Kennedy & Ada ) they were in resident evil 2 and it must be another meeting between 
 them in another addition of this series. I hope that the new game of resident evil become wonderful 
 like this game with a better graphic, better story and anew adventure to complite the great series 
 of resident evil. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rovelius
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 23, 2008 9:54 pm PT
Review:  What can I say which hasn't already been said about Resident Evil 4? Well, I actually can't think 
 of anything else. Rather, I'll just compare the PC version to the other versions. After all, that's 
 probably what you're here for in the first place.
  
  The PC version is worth getting only if you're one of the most die-hard RE4 fans out there. I would 
 NOT recommend getting it if you're playing it for the first time. Why? Because it's simply one 
 of the most lazy ports of a game that I saw yet - it's actually worse than the originals. You won't 
 enjoy it as much as if you got it on Wii, for example.
  
  Gameplay. Nothing changed, here. It's the same exact thing as the other versions. The only twist 
 is about the awkward controls. You'll be dammed if you don't happen to own any kind of PC gamepad 
 - the game is almost unplayable with just a keyboard. And don't even think about using that mod 
 which enables aiming with the mouse, it's even worse than a keyboard. If you have trouble playing 
 games like Devil May Cry or GTA: San Andreas on PC, trust me, you'd better forget about Resident 
 Evil 4.
  
  Graphics. Here's the big letdown. Remember when everyone went crazy about the PS2 version's graphics? 
 Well, take those exact same graphics and remove fog in every maps from the game. You may think 
 it's not such of a big issue, but :
  
  -You'll see every buildings/doors clip in and out as you move around. Not very nice for the eyes.
 
  -Performance is hurt a lot because, when there's no fog, a lot more models and stuff are on-screen. 
 You'll see as far as the eye can do, which makes the otherwise moody maps totally drab. Also, If 
 I don't use any mod to add fog, I can't even get 30 FPS in certain maps because so much stuff is 
 shown. And I got a quite decent rig (P4 3,2GHz, 2Gb of DDR2 RAM and GeForce 8400 GS) ...
  -No fog also means you'll see the enemies coming from very far distance, which terribly hurts atmosphere 
 and gameplay.
  
  The textures are also so blurry. The overall world almost feels like Nintendo 64 only with more 
 polys and models onscreen. Yes, they're that bad.
  
  Thankfully, there are countless mods out there to fix these problems. You can almost make this 
 game look like an Xbox360 one with the appropriate mods - Bloom/HDR, Dynamic Lighting, HD textures... 
 just make sure to have a good PC !
  
  Sound. Well, it's the same sound effects all over again. There's only one difference : the gunshots 
 sound effects dramatically changed into something that will -again- make you cry for mods.
  
  Nothing much to say about the soundtrack though, other than it still rocks. It's just as good 
 as it used to be - I still listen at it regularly on my PC.
  
  Bottom line. By now, I think you might got the main idea. PC RE4 is just a lazy port which is playable 
 (and enjoyable) only thanks to the modding scene. The mods are the only reason why I bothered dealing 
 with these awkward controls..
  
  Pros :
  -RE4's core stays untouched - jumping down ledges, climbing ladders and contextual moves are still 
 around..
  -Great soundtrack which still manages to add tension to the atmosphere.
  
  Cons:
  -Game would totally suck if it wasn't for the mods.
  -Horrible gun sound effects and 
 graphics.
  -Takes a way too good PC to have a decent framerate, considering how a simple PS2 can run this 
 game flawlessly.
  
  I give this game a 6/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dagamemonkey
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 23, 2008 1:24 pm PT
Review:  Resident Evil 4 is arguably the best game in the series on two major consoles, but unfortunately 
 PC owners get a poorly ported, lazy rendition of this amazing game. The game is definitely worth 
 a look to those who own a PC and have not played the game yet, but if you own it either on the 
 Nintendo Gamecube or Sony Playstation it is recommended you simply disregard this version.
  
  Resident Evil 4 took the series to a new level by offering two brand new elements: third-person 
 action and a story that did not involve zombies or a biohazard accident. The story centers around 
 United States agent Leon Kennedy and it takes places a little while after the first Resident Evil 
 game which was on the NGC. The story takes Leon through a region in Europe where it is believed 
 the President of the United States' daughter named Ashley was taken after being abducted. And it 
 is up to him to find her and bring her back alive. Only Leon finds a mysterious cult working there 
 shortly after his arrival. It becomes Leon's goal to both save the daughter of the president and 
 discover how this cult has connections to the abduction. The story is extremely long and will take 
 you to some truly amazing places both in search of Ashley and seeking the source of the cult. The 
 game is a port of the PS2 so it features all of the same extra content like the Separate Ways mini-campaign 
 and Mercenaries challenge mode which, by the way, are worth unlocking playing both through once 
 or twice. The only outstanding thing that potentially mars its gameplay is the complete lack of 
 mouse support, but it oddly supports a cumbersome and awkward keyboard setup. The game is easy 
 to pick-up-and-play with a gamepad but if all you have is a keyboard it might be prudent of you 
 to avoid this port at least until you acquire a gamepad. The reason a keyboard is a bad idea is 
 because the game does not allow any button mapping editing, and furthermore every button display 
 in-game is shown as a number on a gamepad regardless of what accessory you are using. The keyboard 
 can be used but it is certainly not as effectively as a gamepad. And if you have ever played Resident 
 Evil 4 you will know that throughout the game there are many "quick response" button prompts that 
 require you to very quickly hit two buttons lest you die, and using a keyboard would be murder 
 in those instances. I mentioned the on-screen display only displays a number that corresponds to 
 a gamepad regardless if you are using a keyboard, so that means you would have to exit back the 
 desktop to check which button is which every time you come across these "quick response" periods. 
 And to make matters worse for keyboard-only users the game features many, many of these quick responses 
 especially beginning about halfway through and forward. The fact that this game offers no mouse 
 support and no user definable control options makes this port of RE4 extremely hard to recommend 
 to PC users. It would be easier to go out and buy the game for Gamecube which both features a gamepad 
 and it happens to be the best version, and it is the same price to boot. However, if you own a 
 gamepad and have played Resident Evil 4 before you will probably want to avoid this also. This 
 version should only be appealing to gung-ho PC users who would normally not have access to Resident 
 Evil game since the majority of the time they are released on Sony and Nintendo consoles. The fact 
 that the game does support a keyboard but not a mouse suggests that someone either was unbelievably 
 lazy or incredibly apathetic. The PC ported version of this stunning action title is literally 
 an abomination to the original Gamecube version, and PC users must consider this an insulting slap 
 across the face. Fortunately most of the game's core and exciting gameplay is retained, but the 
 fact the game lacks mouse support is the most crippling aspect of the gameplay.
  
  The game was not only poorly ported in its gameplay but also in its once-amazing graphics. This 
 version, despite being a PC game, allows no altering of graphical options whatsoever. The only 
 alterable option PC owners can fool around with is the game's resolution; that is it. And to make 
 matters worse, the unalterable graphics look absolutely atrocious. The world looks decent at a 
 distance but when you move in close some textures look horrible. And also the world as a whole 
 look less dark because some of the creepy atmospheric effects are either missing or not functioning 
 properly so some areas of the game look just plain. This dark environment added to what made Resident 
 Evil 4 so terrifying, and without that the game is quite a bit less frightening. The one thing 
 that suffers most in this port are the cutscenes and they actually look about as bad as possible. 
 Each cutscene can be seen enough to discern what is happening but they are blurry and messy enough. 
 The reason, once again, is because the game was ported directly from the Playstation 2 version 
 but they could have at least been given some serious time for some polish. Even a slight makeover 
 with clarity would have made them more bearable, but PCs are stuck with the  
 cinema scenes. These same scenes sometimes chug at certain intervals but it seems uncommon. And 
 sometimes it seems that the in-game menus are messy looking and this is especially so with Leon. 
 And lastly, nearly every single time you go through a door that requires a quick loading sequence 
 it completely hitches up for about one noticeable second before transitioning to the next area. 
 This graphical bug is annoying, and it happens to be a PC-only issue. The saving grace of the game's 
 visuals would be character and enemy models. Leon looks very detailed, and other such NPCs like 
 Ashley look very well done as well. They are surprisingly sharp and detailed and it is a miracle 
 that they actually look like they should. The enemy that you will encounter most is the infected 
 population that spans chapters 1 through 5, and fortunately they are rendered very well. Early 
 on foes may be civilian-like with farm clothes on and wielding "weapons" like pitchforks, kitchen 
 knives, and sickles. In the last chapter you will encounter a much tougher breed of them because 
 they carry shock sticks, fiery arrows, and in uncommon cases some carry miniguns. The common enemies 
 look good but the most outstanding aspect of the enemies would be the bosses. They not only look 
 astoundingly fantastic but they also look like their properly-ported counterparts. The bosses that 
 look the best would include the chief, Saddler, and especially Salazar. These enemies are epic 
 and they look stunning and this author is very surprised finally something was done properly in 
 the graphics department. Unfortunately, the guns to suffer some texture integrity because on the 
 PC some of them look a little on the cartoony side. They function just like real guns but sometimes 
 they just do not look the way they ought to. And the ever-present red targeting laser is back to 
 assist Leon, but again it looks very cartoony. The graphical power of Resident Evil 4 is astounding 
 in two of the three ports, but the PC fails when clearly it should have been one of the best.
 
  
  Sound seems to be the only part of Resident Evil 4 that remains completely unmolested. It remarkably 
 sounds as good as its superior counterparts in both sound effects and voice work. As nothing has 
 been changed, I will only explain what is so good about it. The game's story is very, very strong 
 thanks to the professional and convincing voice work performed by a magnificent cast. Every single 
 character sounds like he or she should and the measure of professionalism used adds to the whole 
 experience's atmosphere. They never sound goofy, forced, or even corny, and sometimes there is 
 an intentional bit of humor. Characters that sound the best would include Saddler and Jack Krauser, 
 two of the key villains throughout the game. During the course of the roughly 10-hour game you 
 will be using your weapons-a lot, and thankfully weapon sounds were untouched as well. Like the 
 voices they just hopped over to the PC cleanly. Other various sound effects like water, explosions, 
 and even music remain the same in each port.
  
  Resident Evil 4 could have been an outstanding game on the PC if someone had enough motivation 
 to do it. And thanks to that same collective negligence some minor bugs and glitches appear from 
 time to time. However, PC owners should not consider this rendition of this great game to be a 
 preverbal middle-finger; it is still a marvelous game. However, if you have not played Resident 
 Evil 4 yet do not opt for the PC because the NGC, PS2, and recently the Wii have much better ports. 
 Should you eventually decide to purchase the PC port then just know what you are about see is nothing 
 like the other three. It is a travesty more time and effort was not put into this game's quality, 
 performance, and overall playability. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smokedbeef
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 14, 2008 7:04 pm PT
Review:  First the Good Things about this game:
  
  Gameplay: Great intense third person shooting, large varieties of weapons to use, very easy to 
 get into, many suprises, lots of unlockable things
  
  Sounds: Great weapons sounds and zombies sound realistic
  
  Graphics: Better graphics than 
 the console versions, lightnings
  
  Systems: Decent system requirement
  
  The Bad things about this game:
  
  Gameplay: The game becomes very hard when you get close 
 to the end of the game, game has no replay value unless for unlockable stuffs
  
  Sounds: Nothing to say.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are still look a bit outdated.
  
  Systems: 
 You can't run it in just any computer, you need a freakin gamepad if you dont you cant play.
  
  Overall: The game is overall great. Resident Evil 4 is the best of the series. 5th might be 
 better than the 4th but for now its the best. But it still has some disappointing factors that 
 ruins the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: super-hiro
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 19, 2008 7:06 am PT
Review:  The main thing against the PC version of Resident Evil 4 is that it's a lazy port, a very lazy 
 port. But there are a few things you can do to overcome this easily and still play the way it was 
 meant to be. If you can, I would still recommend playing the console versions. 
  But if you can't (like me) then don't be discouraged by stories about how it sucks on PC because 
 there are a few things you can do about this. 
  
  First: a gamepad is a must. The original game has no mouse-support (although there is a mod for 
 this, it still doesn't work half as good as a gamepad) . You can buy a decent gamepad for a very 
 low price. 
  
  The second thing may be harder for a lot of people but for me it really solved the "bad graphics" 
 thing. On your average PC monitor this game doesn't look very good, true. But if you (like me) 
 have a second TV monitor connected to your PC and play it on that monitor... it looks almost exactly 
 like the NGC version. If you can't do this, there are several great graphics-improving mods out 
 there.
  
  About the game itself, this should be pretty much clear (almost everybody has played this game 
 at least once) . It's a great game. The atmosphere, story, sound and characters are just simply 
 great and make this game pretty much a must-play for everybody.
  
  So, if you don''t have the console option but still want to enjoy this great game, go for PC. With 
 a TV monitor but especially with a gamepad this is still a very good game as the core gameplay 
 luckily survived the port pretty good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrMcshizzles
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 12, 2008 7:31 pm PT
Review:  I used to love the series for its mix of horror, suspense, role playing, and shooting. Though, 
 I admittedly was never a huge fan of the viewing angle, or the controls that went along with it. 
 Those eventually got better as the series grew. But, for a long time it felt like I was playing 
 the same game over and over. With a new setting, what I feel is a better viewing angle, and a somewhat 
 different storyline, the series has gotten a slight revamp with 4.
  I AM disappointed that the PC version is a direct port from PS2. As it makes the controls very 
 tricky to get used to. Also considering that you can't modify them much, if at all. Also, as I've 
 noticed, the textures used on the PS2 version are horrendously inferior to the Game Cube release. 
 But, with some internet searching, there are texture patches to resolve the issue. Though the patches 
 are ridiculously large...
  If you haven't yet played this game, it's definitely worth checking out, especially with such a 
 cheap price tag. As, the story line is very immersive, and the game play is good, once you get 
 used to the controls. There are also a few spots where I've had a quick shock, which is familiar 
 from the rest of the RE games. The eerie-ness is fully intact as well. 
  I would highly recommend downloading the texture patches, to make the graphics more eye-pleasing. 
 But, only if you have enough free space to almost double the hard drive consumption of the game's 
 normal size. Also, when you first install the game remember to go into the setup options (amongst 
 the list of options when you first click on the RE4 icon on the desktop) , and assign an axis for 
 your joypad's right analog stick. A joypad is HIGHLY recommended for this game, especially due 
 to it's PS2 control scheme. If you don't assign the right stick ahead of time, you'll find that 
 you have now way to zoom in or look around.
  In the end, it's certainly not the BEST game I've played. But, it's definitely enough to hold the 
 interest of a very fickle gamer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: InspectorK
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 22, 2008 6:27 am PT
Review:  This Game Is so awesome, but the controls are terrible, how could some one even let this game leave 
 the studio with out even trying to make the mouse work with it. Once you get use to the keyboard 
 controls its not so bad...., but besides that the game owns!!! Well worth the small 20$ price tag. 
 Repeated to fill Required space.
  
  
  This Game Is so awesome, but the controls are terrible, how could some one even let this game leave 
 the studio with out even trying to make the mouse work with it. Once you get use to the keyboard 
 controls its not so bad...., but besides that the game owns!!! Well worth the small 20$ price tag.
 
  
  This Game Is so awesome, but the controls are terrible, how could some one even let this game leave 
 the studio with out even trying to make the mouse work with it. Once you get use to the keyboard 
 controls its not so bad...., but besides that the game owns!!! Well worth the small 20$ price tag. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hardabs
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 19, 2008 7:44 pm PT
Review:  OK maybe not that much but... yea. its fun to hit zombies with a bullet and play with them, like 
 by knifing them and kicking them in the face. the story is really immersive as it unfolds until 
 the end. there are loads of characters that are very mysterious and you get to find out about them 
 in the game play. and in the story i find out that they injected me with the las plagas virus and 
 i get so pissed off i start nailing everyone i see even the merchant (who sells you goodies... obviously) 
 dies against my will (lols) .
  the bosses are amazing and fun they take s#!+ from Leon who is a bada$$ guy with nice hair. like 
 one of them is a Freddy Couger + an FD up Santa x a millipede that you incinerate so that his top 
 half looks like that but then you separate his legs and then you... oh its just to fun!. you occasionally 
 get into a hole bunch of traps that are fun to do as you go into a maze that they say is hard but 
 is actually surprisingly easy but there are a whole bunch of wolves that pop from the bushes and 
 boom they start nailing on you and im like oh $#!+ this is crazy and my adrenaline heightens then 
 i start moving the left stick up n down to get him off of me and people who can see me out the 
 window of my house see me and they think i do some nasty stuff (lols) . its also fun to cut barrels 
 and hope that you get ammo, as capcom did a good job in trying to keep ammo scarce but still enough 
 to do the task. at the beginning i was so scared but than after you just unload all your ammo (or 
 should i say rage) you develop a fun factor in the game. 
  
  it is great on any platform defenitly get it. i hope this helps. also get re5. you should check out 
 on youtube psychadelicsnake 's channel he has an awesome walk through of the game with bonus commentary ( 
 definitely a +++) it is so funny. it inspired me to play this game. just check it out you'll love 
 it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zero_332484
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 17, 2008 7:55 pm PT
Review:  The first thing you'll notice when you play RE4 for PC is the obvious porting mistakes. The game 
 can only be run in widescreen mode... which is alright i guess. It's a very cinamatic game so, it 
 fits. It's just too bad that the cinamatic resolutions are terrible and blurry due to being poorly 
 compressed. I never had a problem with widescreen, but i know some people are annoyed by it. So, 
 if you absolutely cannot play a game in widescreen then don't get it. Thats a shame though, because 
 it really is a good game once you get past the bad porting job. Moving on to the graphics. The 
 atmosphere is spooky and dark. The fog (U. S. version; or you can patch the european version) really 
 contributes to this. The resolution is fine (in the actual game that is) and character models look 
 very detailed-especially bosses. The problem with the graphics are the textures. Outside textures 
 and textures of walls look fine. The objects (for instance: a painting in a frame hanging in a 
 house) however seem to look fine from a fair distance but when you get close you relize they are 
 blurry. Also, the menu and the interface look blurry. Switching over to sound. The sound is probably 
 the best part of this game alongside the actual gameplay. The creepy music that plays and the cries 
 of the "zombies" add alot to the scary ambiance. About those keyboard controls (no mouse support) ... They 
 are not as bad as everyone says. Everyone went into a big tantrum over there being no mouse support. 
 Should there have been mouse support? Yes. Is it a huge problem that there is no mouse support? 
 No. Does it take some time to adjust to the keyboard? Yes. Just because you have to use the keyboard 
 does not make it bad. It will takes some time to become good with the keyboard. However, once you 
 do it will become second nature... I played RE4 with the keyboard from the start and i have absolutely 
 no problems aiming and playing the game easily. If you still don't want to take about 1 hour to 
 get oriented to the keyboard controls you can always go with a gamepad. The one problem with the 
 keyboard is when there are reaction based scenes in a cinamatic where you must hit the correct 
 buttons to get out of it alive. The indicators that come up are geared toward a gamepad... But honestly 
 even this is'nt that bad. I memorized which buttons correspond with which buttons. But once again, 
 there is always the gamepad option. As for the story? Terrific. Voice acting is excellant, though 
 the dialogue can get somewhat cheesy at times. Lastly, the gameplay is fun, challenging (this game 
 is not for people who are easily frustrated) , and addicting... Happy "zombie" hunting...
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: milosbeli
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 18, 2008 9:19 am PT
Review:  ummm well what to say, ive always loved played resident evil games including the ones on ps ps2 
 and now on pc. one of my most favorite ones are nemesis and resident evil x code veronica. and 
 now about this game. well first im playing res 4 on my computer with vista and i must admit the 
 controls are very hard to handle and very hard to get used to them and very hard setting them up 
 because they look like they are used for a console. the graphics is ok so are the "zombies" who 
 are actually humans lol with some anger management :) the weapons are cool and so are the outfits. 
 the idea and the concept of the game is pretty decent. i just hate that i dont have some sub-titles 
 for spanish but ok. but overall id say this game is worth playing, i really enjoyed playing it 
 and id would recommend this game to all the resident evil series fans 
::::::

::::::
UserName: secretchocolate
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 15, 2008 12:15 am PT
Review:  Can't put it away. 
  My favorite game ever. 
  I heard about this game but I didn't play it until after I saw movies of the game on UTUBE.
  
 When I play the game, every time Leon gets hit by an ax I get a chill down my spine. 
  Leon is a very likable character and that is why I root for him. GOT GUM? He isn't the usual run 
 of the mill shooter game character jacked up on steroids.
  He is just a normal guy.
  This game is not just some stupid boring shooter game.
  One second I am going "EW" and the next 
 second I am laughing and the next second I am jumping out of my chair.
  The game play is like being inside of a really great sci-fi action movie. I love sci-fi.
  There 
 is so much detail in this game to appreciate.
  The chickens lay golden eggs. Ha.
  The game was very scary the first 10 times that I played it. Now I am getting pretty good at the 
 kicks.
  I am still finding things that I didn't notice the previous rounds, and different moves that Leon 
 can make.
  There is also a wide variety of weapons to use.
  To think that I almost didn't play this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShaunToncray
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 4, 2008 1:44 am PT
Review:  Let me get this out there first: Resident Evil 4 is one of my absolute most favorite games of all-time, 
 and the gameplay mechanics that make the game so spectacular are still intact in the PC version.
 
  
  But straight-out-the-box, RE4 (PC) is merely a meek graphical shadow of the PS2 and Gamecube versions 
 that I have grown to love. The graphics look great on those systems- on the PC, the game simply 
 looks bad.
  
  There are no options for anti-aliasing, no resolution settings, and no conceivable reason as to 
 why the PC version should have worse graphics than a PS2 edition. How could this happen? Your guess 
 is as good as mine.
  
  By now you're probably wondering why I'm picking at the graphics so much. The reason is that it 
 breaks the sense of IMMERSION that I have felt every time I've beaten this game on other systems.
 
  
  When I take aim, I notice that the laser sight on Leon's gun leaves a jagged beam pointing at the 
 enemy's head, and suddenly I'm not focusing on the horde of evil villagers out to kill me.. I'm 
 scratching my head and looking for a decent options menu to fix this. Everywhere I go, textures 
 are blurred. Hell, Leon's pistol even has jagged edges breaking the realism and sense of immersion.
 
  
  Thankfully, there is a mod community out there who have faithfully restored the game to its graphical 
 glory. Still, this version lacks many lighting effects and it sucks to have to mod the game to 
 make it look decent, but it's the only way I could continue playing this version of the game. A 
 shame really.
  
  If one is willing to deal with the graphics issue, Resident Evil 4 is a real treat. It's the kind 
 of game that gives you a real sense of dread, and rewards repeat play-throughs with awesome weapons 
 and new modes. The story is pretty great, and it can get scary as hell. It all makes for one unforgettable 
 experience on all systems, but it's better enjoyed on consoles if left unmodified.
  
  If you're unable to play it on other systems, check out the PC version, but be prepared to download 
 some new texture packs and mods to enhance the experience. If your computer barely meets the recommended 
 system specs, then the mods may be too demanding though.
  
  One other note- this game does not support the traditional keyboard and mouse set-up that we PC 
 gamers so greatly love. Instead, the game is best played with a control pad, and I found the Xbox 
 360 controller to serve as a great substitute. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aquaintus
Rating: 1
Date: Sep 30, 2008 7:46 pm PT
Review:  The controls on this game are old school. You can't use a mouse to move, or even use the mouse 
 in the menu options area. There is no mouse pointer at all.
  
  The other problems with the controls are you have to select the Right Shift and the Enter to fire 
 your weapon. How does my left hand hit these buttons when they are on the WASD keys? The simple 
 answer is that hand doesn't. You have to use the other. 
  
  Most modern games allow your left hand to not only move with WASD but other thing like load your 
 weapon, aim, and fire and so on. This keyboard configuration is so off the wall it makes DOOM the 
 original look like a better game. And that is over a decades older.
  
  The other problems you might experience with this game is it doesn't put an icon on your desktop 
 even when yo selected the option too and it doesn't enter the Games category in Vista. Combined 
 this leaves you with little option but to browse through your folders searching for this game and 
 launching it from its install folder.
  
  I decided these problems wont be so bad if I can just configure my Z board to play the game. I 
 have a MERC Stealth btw. So I configured the space bar to do both the Right Shift and Enter so 
 I have a simple button to use. I re-enter the game and nothing happened. It must not support a 
 reconfigured keyboard. 
  
  So then I decided I'll just exit the game, BUT there is no exit game option. As sooon as I was 
 in game and went to the game menu, I only had an option to exit the option menu. It never let me 
 exit the game. So I CTRL+ALT+DEL and took it off my process list. 
  
  Overall the controls and menus of this game are far beyond old school they defy logic in this millenium. 
 So the game rates a 1 for Abysmal scale. And anyone who reviews this game beyond a 6 must have 
 been locked up in a closet these past 20 years. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: asafs16
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 23, 2008 9:47 pm PT
Review:  so the RESIDENT EVIL 4 could have been way better
  than what he is today..
  
  the graphics is not the best but its ok.. the sounds are great, creppy and scary when you play 
 at night, good story (zombies!!) , and more..
  
  the main problem who ruined this great game is the aweful joystick controles when i first start 
 i told to my self: "what?? no mouse?? how da hell can i play with the keyboard only?"
  
  so this is horrible no one can play this game with does aweful controles, the game was still ok 
 becuase the zombies get to you untail you aim good on them, 
  
  thats the only problem of this game and more games like the "COLD FEAR" game.. or last games in 
 seires
  
  i hope that RESIDENT EVIL 5 will have the mouse
  if you see this game rent it.. see if you can play with the keyboard only if you do.. this is the 
 perfect game for you.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: seraphym_k
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 15, 2008 1:34 am PT
Review:  I didn't play previous games in series, but here got a chance to jump on RE train before RE5 release. 
 I honestly thank Capcom/Ubi for porting it to PC, but WHAT THE HELL's with controls? Even though 
 it has mouse support forget it! If you don't have a gamepad or plan getting one do not even consider 
 buying this game, or you'll end up with tons of frustration and zero satisfaction. But once proper 
 controller is in your hands you can enjoy this great game to it's fullest. I wouldn't say there's 
 much horror and puzzles necessary to advance on the plot ain't tough, but action part is really 
 something! Lack of ammo, health potions and masses of monsters will keep you thrilled, but good 
 ol' shotgun will serve to your utmost satisfaction blowing off heads with sheer pleasure of destruction.
 
  Boss fights are entertaining, limited inventory space makes it more fun to handpick your arsenal 
 and of course likeable characters. What else there to ask? Uh, unfortunately story is no good. 
 It is sort of boring to watch how The Hero loses his target again and again, and again! So minus 
 point for lazy porting job and minus point for boring story, hence 8.0. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Juranija
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 11, 2008 6:46 pm PT
Review:  I first tried this game out with the "mouse support". The combat made me think Leon was drunk and 
 had Parkinson's disease. Later on I tried the game out with keyboard only and while I have to admit 
 that I had problems getting used to pressing the dodge buttons that were called 1+3 5+6 which made 
 me bash all the buttons hoping not to die, until I realised what they really were. While I have 
 admit that the porting job was pretty lousy, a few hours into the game, the great story and shivers 
 running down my spine made me forget all the control problems and have a great gaming experience 
 which I haven't had in quite a while. The enemies are like none I've ever seen, believe me how 
 surprised I was to lose half of my hp to an  who's 
 head was just blown to Narnia with a shotgun. There's the regular (reveal weak spot -  shoot - 
  repeat) bosses which are as always fun, at the very least they let you nail out all that extra 
 ammo you were savin up, for a nice parasite explosion. Capcom mixed a great amount of action with 
 story which if combined with a pretty girl you have to rescue, makes a great game. 
  
  Overall if you don't mind abandoning your mouse for a few hours and stepping over the regular FPS, 
 run in like a moron and kill everything, you're bound to have a great time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jimbo0705
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 3, 2008 7:22 am PT
Review:  Like i said Resident Evil 4 (RE4 for short) is the best game in the series so far from all of the 
 Resident Evil games that i have seen this is the best one so far. The main reason for that is the 
 the controls and the view. In almost all the Resident Evil games you usually have a 3rd person 
 view but in RE4 the change it up a bite with the 2nd person view. Also the weapons where awesome 
 from the riot gun to the mine thrower it had the biggest selection of weapons. And some weapons 
 did some crazy things like lazier cannon it wasn't the most effective weapon but it was fun now 
 and then to kill zombies with it. Then the story mode it was awesome!!!!!!!!!!!! From the boss 
 fights to just plan old walking around there was always something new to see. Also there was a 
 little freedom like once and a while if your by a lake if you decide to go fishing no need for 
 a fishing pole just pole out your infinite rock luncher and shot away and watch how fishing becomes 
 a lot more easier. Then there was the awesome stuff you get after beating the game. There the separate 
 ways where you play as Ada for a little bite and find out how stuff happen like the bell ring at 
 the church that saved you life and how you didn't get killed by the big balled guy who jumps out 
 the window. Then there is the final battle I died so many time trying to find out how to finally 
 kill him i had a timer and I was like dam no time to look around I ran looking for where to go 
 and when i finally got to the jet ski i was like now i got a new problem to deal with. I died about 
 5 times doing the Jet ski and i wounder why did Ada want me to live was that I just saved her life 
 or is it just because she like me. I didn't really care because I still had to find somethings 
 about her in separate ways and find out she was working for the crazy dude. Also I wished that 
 add coop or multi player then this game be the best in the world. RE4 is  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chinoasian
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 31, 2008 4:42 pm PT
Review:  It is an action horror thriller with clean and sharp cinematic. You start off with just a handgun 
 in European villager's turfs. Your goal is to survive and take back the prisoner in the hands of 
 Lord Saddler the leader of the Ganado's. The villagers were formerly peaceful until something has 
 taken over them with parasites. It does not matter if their zombies or not because they are just 
 infested human beings. You fight bosses just like the previous games only thing is the action are 
 completely different besides just run and shoot now you can flick your wrist with the wii-mote 
 to perform certain action like kicking or dodging. It is excellent on the wii and way better then 
 the gamecube but the same as the playstation 2 version of this game as well as the pc version. 
 It is the same as the PS2 and PC with the same extras which the gamecube version sadly doesn't 
 have. The gamecube is the most inferior version out there lacking the extras and contents that 
 the pc, ps2, and wii doesn't have. Wii is the most superior version out there which implements 
 the control of the wiimote and nunchuck which are the most superior control.
  
  The PC version lacks in control with keyboard but maybe a pc controller will work with this game. 
 Also the good thing is you can download character mods for the pc version to modify your character 
 looks or be someone else like Luis Sera. xD 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dgsag
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 25, 2008 9:34 pm PT
Review:  Read Full review and score breakdown here: 
  http://www. poland. us/strona,33,2503,0. html
  
  Resident Evil 4 on the Nintendo GameCube ranks as one of the best action adventure games ever 
 released. After several years and ports, the game has finally come to the PC.
  
  A brief summary for those who haven't played it yet: your character is named Leon S. Kennedy, a 
 secret agent in charge of recovering the president's kidnapped daughter. You find yourself in a 
 Spanish village, where the inhabitants have gone a bit... crazy. The story is surprisingly good, 
 not embracing the cheesy tricks of horror movies. It also includes a side story called Separate 
 Ways, where you take control of spy Ada Wong and explore some of the same storyline from her perspective.
 
  
  Character models and environments are beautifully designed. However, there are some things missing 
 in this version. Without the grainy fog, everything looks clearer but less foreboding. It's also 
 easier to see the low-quality textures present in the game. The cutscenes are the greatest dissapointment: 
 whereas the GameCube version of the game rendered the cinematics in real time, this one uses the 
 ugly prerendered scenes that the PS2 version showcased.
  
  The sound survived the porting process mostly intact, making it one of the best parts of the game. 
 Half of RE4's intense atmosphere comes from its sounds, from the creepy music to the satisfying 
 shotgun blasts.
  
  Unfortunately, Capcom really screwed up on the control side. The game doesn't support a MOUSE! 
 While there are several hacks out there that let you use one, this is one game that's better experienced 
 with a control pad. Just make sure that you memorize which button is which for the context-sensitive 
 actions found in the game and even in cutscenes.
  
  As a game, Resident Evil 4 is carefully paced and often breathtaking. If you let it, it can often 
 keep you on the edge of your seat with the multitude of disturbing enemies and adrenaline-pumping 
 boss fights. The camera gives you a third-person view. Once you've drawn your weapon, you can't 
 move, but you can aim. The action is very tense and enemies are powerful.
  
  At its core, Resident Evil 4 is a great game. Unfortunately, the PC version isn't the best, what 
 with its control and graphics issues. So, if you have no other system that supports Resident Evil 
 4 and happen to own a gamepad, pick it up.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: scarface46
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 21, 2008 3:46 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: 10
  Graphics: 9
  Sound: 10
  Value: 10
  Tilt: 10
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Resident Evil 4 is truly amazing. From its stunning graphics to its action-packed storyline, no 
 other game has top this. You start off as the classic character, Leon Kennedy, who's objective 
 is to save the presidents daughter from these gruesome real-life looking creatures. There are tons 
 of weapons to buy and also upgrade, to fully strengthen the gun, from a merchant. Moreover, after 
 you complete the game, you unlock many new weapons, 2 new storylines, new costumes, and a fun beat 
 the clock extra. However, the PC version of Resident Evil 4 has some minor problems. The main problem 
 is that the lighting for SOME indoor areas is messed up, so the spooky feeling its supposed to 
 have is not as great as the console versions. Moreover, the graphics are NOT affected and the cut-scenes 
 are not horrible, the character details and the environment are amazing, greatly detailed. Also, 
 the sound is perfect, from the animals in the trees to the zombies. Another minor problem is that 
 Resident Evil 4 prefers a controller. I have a USB controller, but if you don't have one, that 
 may be a problem. So if you can't play RE4 on the consoles than it is definitely worth it to go 
 out and buy a controller. Overall, Resident Evil 4 is a non-stop action-packed horror game that 
 will put you on the edge of your seat for a long time. With an amazing story that will make you 
 wonder what happens next to the added bonuses; Assignment Ada, Separate Ways, and Mercenaries; you 
 will not get tired of this game for a very long time. Plus, after you beat the game once you'll 
 probably go through it again to try out the new unlocked guns and costumes. Or you'll just want 
 to play this breath-taking game again just for the hell of it. Lastly, if you can get the PS2 version, 
 then get that if you don't want those minor issues. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maddog2575
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 26, 2008 2:07 pm PT
Review:  I remember when resident evil 4 came out on the PS2. I was addicted to it for a really long time 
 and i beat it about 4 times it was so fun. so i decited why not try the PC version. i borrowed 
 it from a friend and for the first few hours i was really pissed off at it because THE CONTROLS 
 WERE WAY TOO DAMN CONFUSING. but after a while i got used to them and it somehow felt really normal. 
 i have to admit the graphics on the cutscenes are somehow terrible but when your playing the real 
 game they are better for some reason. i still havent had the chance to beat it on the PC but im 
 still working on it and still enjoying it. overall its still fun but if you have a PS2, Wii, or 
 gamecube buy it on there and not on the PC. But it is still very fun and is worth borrowing from 
 a friend or something cause i enjoyed it alot more after getting used to the controls. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 120383
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 24, 2008 11:01 pm PT
Review:  When I bought it came with some scratches and I had to change for other one. and when I installed 
 the game was not showing the CGs. Man that was terrible, but i tried to play on XP OS and voila! 
 It worked. There is an error on the package that the game works on Windows 2000. boo to Ubisoft. 
 So I played but the graphics were terrible. I could not see the ps2 version but the PC one is terrible. 
 I could not believe on that so I searched on net for a patch or something and and i have found 
 the patch to change to 1.1 version. When I installed it, what a change! The game became other, 
 totally different, the graphics became better, the textures, the lightning, everything. My luck 
 was that this patch works only on the European version and this is the version that came to Brasil. 
 My bad luck was that my PC was not good enough to play the game smoothly, it became slow but after 
 an upgrade it was marvelous. not a cube version but a friend of mine said that was better than 
 the PS2.
  
  The game is very cool, a lot of action and has a difficult level that can make you think that is 
 easy but when you see you are dieing whit a lot of enemies even with a lot of bullets with you. 
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stalker700
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 20, 2008 1:06 pm PT
Review:  When you say Resident Evil 4 to a die hard survival horror fan, he will say that it's one of the 
 best, if not THE best action survival horror game... and well, he isn't far from the truth. This really 
 is an amazing game from every aspect, though it's pretty much got f*cked up on the PC because it 
 is a horrbile port to say the least.
  Resident Evil 4 puts you back into the shoes of Leon S. Kennedy (Damn..) , a investigator who was 
 sent to a desolate village in Mexico (or whereever this place is located) , to locate the missing 
 daughter of the president (that is, if the president's daughter look like a missing character from 
 the DOA series... damn, I'll go there with a kitchen knife for her) . Pretty much after 5 minutes after 
 entering the village, he founds that the local residents (hm... RESIDENT EVIL...... OHHHH, finally I 
 understand why they call the series that way) , suffer from a strange virus, which makes them very, very 
 angry, and well..... your company doesn't really help.....
  Graphics - 9
  So, just to clear some things, the graphics are HORRIBLE without the 1.1 patch, though with it, the 
 game ressurects as an excellent looking game.
  The lightning is excellent, and the textures and characters are also great.
  The gore level in 
 the game is satisfying to say the least.. I mean, it's always a treat to see a head pops from a mere 
 pistol shot, sure, it's not realistic, but it's enough to make you whisper "ouch..".
  The cutscenes without the patch, also look horrible and blurry, though with it, everythings looks 
 clear like those theeth in the tooth paste commercials... god I hate them..
  To put it shortly, if you want to see the game at it's fullest, just put the patch and save yourself 
 the horrible... ness.
  Audio - 8
  The dialouge is well made, and the voice acting is also solid. Though there are some spots that it 
 sounds... lame....
  The music is creepy and puts you in the atmosphere nicely, and that's of course is a good thing.
 
  The sound effect are excellent, and the zombie RAWRS are creepy.
  Gameplay - 9
  To put it bluntly, the porting is simply horrible. The FPS can drop rarely, though it's the least 
 of the problems...
  Let's begin with the controls. When was the last time I saw a 3rd person shooter where you need 
 to shoot with the Enter button..... hmm.... let's see... oh yeah, NEVER. This is simply a joke, how exactly 
 am I supposed to shoot with the ENTER BUTTON??? It's like..... playing a driving game with the guitar 
 controller from GH.... HOWEVER, that is why god sent us those saviors, the holy GAMEPADS. With a normal 
 adjustment with the gamepad, the game again feels and plays differently and MUCH better.
  The rest is simply unneeded to talk about.
  Now, aside from the porting problems, the game is simply 
 AMAZING.
  You can do SO much for a survival game. Adjust weapons, kick dizzy enemies, combine treasurres, simply 
 DOZENS of things to help you survive. The inventory managment is unique and simply awesome, so you 
 won't be able to carry 20 weapons at a time, so you need to think before you pick up things (just 
 like in real life, REMMEMBER KIDS, DRUGS ARE BAD!) .
  Also, the puzzles are also a treat from keep your brain from rotting and some of them are pretty 
 though to crack..
  The "protecting Ashley" (oops, silly me, that's a spoiler^_^Oh well) game, can be annoying sometimes, tough 
 she's hot, so we don't mind (but OH GOD SHE'S DUMB... well... she's a blonde... no avoiding it.) and 
 it can also make your brain work at some spots.
  Value - 10
  The game is LOOOOOONGGGGG. I mean, almost RPG-ish long!
  And the bonus missions and extras after 
 finishing the game is also a kickass bonus that adds more life to the game, and that's an excellent 
 thing.
  
  Overall: The porting is poorly done, however, if you install the 1.1 patch and have a gamepad, then 
 the excellent gameplay and great graphics and, not to forget, the budget price, make this a must have. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: klarionc
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 19, 2008 2:54 pm PT
Review:  The game itself is very good, but the PC port was a hack job to make quick cash. They didn't think 
 it through and when they did make updates, it was only for European version, not US. This game 
 needs a mod to use the mouse.
  
  Everything else is just like the Game Cube and they didn't fix the glitch where the machine gun 
 dude can't get to it and just stands there mooing like a cow. 
  Also, the room with the fire dragons is very badly rendered (at least in the version I played) 
 and it's hard to see the piper and aim. I have a pretty decent PC graphics wise, and the game slowed 
 it down a lot during that room.
  
  Overall, the game play is unchanged on bit, except I did notice that there is more TMP ammo in 
 this version than the one for GC and on Normal difficulty I seem to run out of ammo sooner. I guess 
 it's because this port is from the Play Station version of the game.
  
  I still think it's worth it to have the game on PC if you don't play GC anymore. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _Alpha_Omega_
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 7, 2008 7:49 pm PT
Review:  This game is great! Even I cannot understand the story line... T. T
  
  For graphics.
  It's great! I played this game using ATi Radeon 9800 Pro and it's quiet smooth. But I cannot find 
 any dark area to much! Cannot find the spirit of evil and darkness...
  
  For sound effect. 
  Well, it's not too perfect but, it's help gamers to build the scary feeling...
 
  
  For control. 
  Hmm, this is very bad...!!!
  Using keyboard is very bad option! I played this game using gamepad from ASUS XitePad. But still 
 hard to pointing the gun's infrared. Huh! Any one can help fix this probs?
  
  The story line and game.
  Actually, I cannot followed the story line. Hehehe... Coz it's to different 
 from another Resident Evil series... Hope publisher can help this out.
  
  Overall...
  This game is great, even not a perfect game. But it helps me to spend my holiday! Hope there is 
 another better series of Resident Evil. Coz I'm one of Resident Evil fan... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: f_an
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jan 3, 2008 8:44 pm PT
Review:  Resident Evil 4 for the PC was a game I was looking forward to despite the warnings I got about 
 the terrible port to the PC. I've never played a Resident Evil 4 game before this one and I to 
 be honest, didn't give this game much of a chance. I just couldn't get past the terrible porting 
 job and I'm not even sure if I would enjoy this game on a console.
  
  I downloaded a mouse mod so the game would be able to have mouse detection (it doesn't come with 
 it) . However the mod isn't overly great and the mouse is way to loose on any sensitivity. It just 
 starts swerving around all over the place, even on the lowest sensitivity setting; it just feels 
 like a slower version of the insane loose controls. You can use the wasd controls to aim as well 
 which are a lot more fluid but you loose all precision of the keyboard and mouse combination and 
 you can't move where your aiming in small intervals. 
  
  The port continues to be bad as the tooltips that pop up that correspond to your action (press 
 1 to jump out of the window, press 2 to pick up an item) aren't accurate and don't change if you 
 change your controls with the mouse mod (you can't modify your controls originally) . On the other 
 hand with the 1.1 update the graphics are sharp and don't require a good machine to play. That 
 being said the game has a very brown look to it which is okay but it seems like the entire game 
 has the exact same atmosphere to it.
  
  Ignoring these problems, I still don't think I would fully enjoy this game as others did. I wasn't 
 a huge fan of the over the shoulder view indoors as Leo would take up litterly half the screen 
 while turning and aiming. Also, I found that the aim system felt clunky and made the main character 
 feel really weak. You can't move at all while aiming which other games (like grand theft auto which 
 I love) is okay and makes sense but you use the same aiming keys as the movement keys which makes 
 things a bit hectic. Leo also moves very awkwardly since he can't strafe. At first I didn't even 
 know how to turn around a corner because I normally strafe and move forward at the same time to 
 turn around a 180 degree corner. I like the rpg elements to the game but I had trouble finding 
 out how to change weapons, apply ammo to weapons etc. The in-game manual is for the ps2 controller 
 
  
  I've hardly given this game a chance and in reality should have given it more time but I couldn't 
 get past these problems to go more than 2 hours into this game. Gamespot said that somehow with 
 a terrible porting job the game still managed to survive. I personally disagree, this would have 
 been a good game for the PC (most shooters are) but they messed it up so badly even with the 1.1 
 patch. I just cannot recommend this game for the PC. I'm not sure if it's just the port or the 
 combination of the porting job and the game itself but this game flunked really badly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bloodlust007
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 30, 2007 7:50 am PT
Review:  Really if you have played this or have this on the ps2 or gamecube there's very little point on 
 getting this. But like me who "played this game on a console but the console got wrecked in the 
 middle of the game" you won't be disappointed playing this game again. Yes, it has no mouse support, 
 but there's a fix for that. Ok, The things needed to squeeze the fun out of this game and make 
 it play and look like the console version are Gamepad (Still optional because of Mouseaim fix, The 
 1.1 patch (mandatory if you really want it to look really RE4, Good Internet connection (for download 
 of mods) And a good video card (to play the game at high res) . But that is not saying you won't 
 enjoy it even if you don't have even one of those. Honestly, out of these I have none (except internet 
 connection) but with the mouse patch, cool mods, and the core gameplay still intact it is still 
 one of the most gripping, intensifying and best games I have ever played. Heck If I have finished 
 this on a console I'll give this a ten still you'll finish this game from 20-25 hours on normal 
 and longer on professional which is long for a game like this and in that long run there won't 
 be any weak or boring moments trust me because in RE4 those so called "moments" comes to you. Now 
 about the graphics which most people are yapping about there is a patch you know, about 70mb? Which 
 gives texture upgrade, shader and LIGHTING. Some people will say after this "well still not as 
 good as gamecube version" Wrong again because this game will support up to a whooping 1920 x 1200. 
 Still after this some will sayNo, Nooo.... I refuse to say that the the PC version is better looking 
 than the gamecube one. Well do your research buddy because you can get mods that will make the 
 PC version 109320989829times better than GC or PS2 version. If there are texture mods for the game 
 of course, the cutscenes have it too but unfortunately still not as good as the one seen in it's 
 console counterparts. Thing is there are so many mods from animations, costumes, weapons, to total 
 conversion that gives the PC version the upper hand. So Advantages: Better graphics (if tweaked 
 right) , Gamepad support, Mods, and all the extra bonus features of PS2 against Disadvantages: No 
 instant mouse support, You have to download the patch 1.1, Need medium-high video card to make 
 it run right, And the most saddening you really need to spend time to make it look next-gen but 
 think, after that you have a next-gen looking RE4. This is really a crappy port but If you want 
 to you can make the PC version the best looking, most fun and next-gen looking and best of all 
 it's cheap.
  
  PS: If your having problems with Integrated video cards like me, with the game giving you "game. exe 
 has encountered a problem and needs to close" thing, google 3D-Analze get it for free, open it, 
 in the menu check the enable Hardware TnL caps click run and your good to go. If you are still 
 having problems, I beg you, don't be a sloth and find the solution yourself :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thekiller77
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 24, 2007 10:11 am PT
Review:  Its a very good port, that's one of my favourite games for PC... I loved... Actually, I played RE 
 4 with Gamepad and it was a very entertaining (yes, I have a gamepad) . It was full with action, 
 at some point it was difficult (principally the castle part) , the weapons're very well done and the 
 gameplay is awesome the graphics are a little old for 2007 but this is a port from a game of 2005.
 
  But the truly RE fans will be dissapointed because it isnt scary and is very different from the 
 others. If you want to pass the game in all the difficulties and extras (like me) you will take 
 100 hours or more, but if you only play it in normal or easy mode you will take only 10 to 20 hours.
 
  
  If you have a reasonable PC and a Gamepad and you like to play you should do a favor to yourself 
 and buy this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bulletsword
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 14, 2007 4:33 pm PT
Review:  Resident Evil 4 was one of the most successful survival-horror games of all time. It sent the series 
 in a new direction and delivered an exhilarating experience. The PC version keeps what made the 
 game great, but there are a few things that mar the game from reaching the same amount of greatness 
 the other versions had.
  
  This is basically a third-person shooter somewhat. While you can run around and all, you can only 
 shoot when standing still with your weapon drawn. From there, you'll have to aim your weapon using 
 a laser-pointer attached to it. This mechanic can raise the tension in situations such as there's 
 really no place to move, so you're basically standing there shooting down your enemies hoping that 
 you can take them all down and hoping that you have enough ammo to do so.
  
  The game still has the survival elements that are needed for the game to fit in the "survival" 
 horror genre. Ammo is something to conserve and the need for healing items is crucial. Throughout 
 the game, you'll be searching breakable objects and dropped items from enemies for things that'll 
 contribute to your survival. There are plenty of times when the going gets tough, as you'll mostly 
 be placed at large odds.
  
  Most people already know by now that you are not facing zombies, but these possessed humans instead 
 (which are not zombies) . Even if zombies seem to be the only thing considered scary these days, 
 these foes still keep you on the edge of your seat. Despite how they can run, they slow down as 
 they get within a few feet of you. It keeps up with the pacing of the shooting since you'll always 
 have to stand still in order to do much killing. The general gameplay mechanic for this works extremely 
 well and the absence of being able to shoot and move isn't a concern at all. This is still a very 
 fun game.
  
  The cool thing about this game is that the game doesn't seem to get all that old and if it does, 
 it takes longer. The game is well paced and is at a decent length, putting in well over 10 hours 
 of gameplay. That's not even the half of it. The extra Separate Ways campaign from the PS2/Wii 
 versions is completely intact here, meaning that you're off to play an entirely separate campaign. 
 While Separate Ways isn't half as long as the main game, it feels much more rewarding then a mere 
 bonus. And bonus stuff is also included, as new unlockable stuff is gained from beating the game 
 like an extra difficulty mode or even playing the game again with all your items from your last 
 playthrough.
  
  Unfortunately, there are things that kind of ruin the really lengthy and exciting gameplay. You 
 can start with the absurd controls. There is no mouse support, so you'll need a really, really 
 bad keyboard setup. This is highly frustrating. That in itself can be the reason why you stop playing 
 the game. The good news is that the game immediately becomes fun once you plug in a gamepad (preferably 
 a 360 controller or something) .
  
  The bad porting doesn't stop there. The graphics are seriously washed down. It's about as bad as 
 the PS2 version. Cutscenes are also prerendered. You can forget about getting glasses or a new 
 computer. There are no graphics settings and the game was made to look this ugly. This port in 
 no way takes advantage of the PC. Thankfully, if you're willing to dig around, there are some community-made 
 downloads to make the graphics better and less ugly.
  
  Resident Evil 4 on the PC is restrained by these two problems, but otherwise keeps everything that 
 made the game great. You'll need some time and patience to overcome the graphics and control problems. 
 Once that's done, however, you'll finally realize what was so great about the game when it came 
 out. If you're willing to take the time to do just that, then the game is a total steal at $20. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aristonrr
Rating: 2
Date: Dec 8, 2007 3:38 pm PT
Review:  This is going to be an unfair and short review.
  
  To cut to the chase:
  I am absolutely appalled at the "quality" of this game. Even releasing a game for the PC without 
 a mouse control should be qualified as a crime under the Geneva convention. This game generates 
 horror through a stupid, unresponsive control scheme that has you fumbling with your keyboard in 
 a way that could be called nostalgic; I call it crap. To top it off, the frequent cutscenes are 
 blurry and out of focus - sad all the more for the fact that they are well animated and dubbed. 
 Character models are well-done, but the rest of the graphics look like they date back to 1998. 
 Blech. 
  
  There is no way to over-emphasize this: do yourself a favor, and avoid this game at all costs. 
 It is a frustrating experience altogether. What really hurts is that it could have been so much 
 better with just a little work. Damn the people responsible for this mess. For those of you looking 
 to get scared by a PC game, I'd suggest you get Condemned, if you haven't already. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lorddessan91
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 19, 2007 10:33 am PT
Review:  Well, I have to say, that's one of my favourite games for PC... I loved... Actually, I played RE 4 with 
 Gamepad and it was a very entertaining :) The game was full with action, at some point it was difficult, the 
 weapons're very well done... also there updates make the shooting more interesting. The gameplay 
 is definitly not boring :P The whole history is very well done... the boss fights are good... But 
 of course the game's graphics were very old for 2007 : (... but that's not a problem for a game like 
 this. But that's definitly a game for everyone, no sir. The game requires patience and a lot of thinking, some 
 enemies are very difficult if you don't attack them as duly:) The sound effects are very good and 
 they make the game very creepy at some places... they say that RE 4 is horror, but I don't think 
 it is... that's just and ordinary 3dPS with well told story 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingLim
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 19, 2007 5:19 am PT
Review:  This is one of the best games that were imported into the PC from the consoles. While I'm not particularly 
 a Resident Evil fan, I'm very addicted to this one. The navigation system has improved from RE3 
 but in the PC, the irritating factor that doesn't make it perfect is the lack of mouse-look. Frustratingly 
 trying for a headshot with the arrow keys on the keyboard takes some of the fun out but the rest 
 of the game is a solid bite into a marshmallow chocolate bar with caramel fillings. It means awesome.
 
  
  Combat is both challenging and engaging that tests your reflexes and judgment while the survival 
 factor turns you into a collector of every item you can get no matter how many detours it takes 
 to do so and still remains fun. Now that it features a weapon upgrading system, it serves to be 
 more addictive than before. I played through the main story twice and am still ready for another 
 round because there are so many juicy stuff to unlock that you can't resist trying them out. Also, 
 once you completed the main game once, there are many mini games unlocked for your pleasure if 
 you still can't get enough of the action. For horror-survival fans, this is a must-have. Did I 
 say Ada Wong is a babe over here?
  
  KingLim 
::::::

::::::
UserName: me2good4u_basic
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 18, 2007 9:21 pm PT
Review:  I wonder why they even bothered porting this to PC if they can't make the port properly? Common 
 people, you are porting this game to PC and yet there is NO MOUSE support? how lame can that be? 
 I'm a big fan of the RE series and this is the first time I actually hated it. Controls are too 
 crappy, graphics are are screwed up! If you guys are going to make another port to PC please include 
 mouse support morons. After playing for about 2 hours, thats it, I can't handle the horrible controls. 
 Uninstalled it and played another better game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bifam
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 11, 2007 8:57 am PT
Review:  I played the other 3 resident evil on playstation.. but the 4th on pc. I like the game very much, 
 but i hate that they didnt do so much about the controls.
  When you need to press 1+3 or 5+6 IT SUCKS WITH A KEYBOARD!!
  and i dont understand why the sellers 
 cant sell ammo?
  just small amounts would help ALOT. at bosses you always run out of ammo.
  But good graphics and nice twist's that make the game a nice game.
  But where the fuck are the 
 zombies? 
  Theres no zombies in the game, i havent met any yet in chapter 5-2.
  ONLY SOME MEN AND WOMEN WHO GOT A PARASITE THAT CONTROLS THEM ! which ISNT zombies.
  
  Maybe 
 call the game something else, not resident evil. 
  Resident evil is about Umbrella Corp. which makes this experiment that goes wrong, and then there 
 comes zombies.
  But this game is about a man who wants the world to become his, and then injects little beetles 
 in every person in the village. and kidnaps the presidents daughter which he also injects. The 
 villagers have never been or becoming zombies. ZOMBIES !!! 
  
  Else good game :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maxy456
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 7, 2007 3:34 pm PT
Review:  when i first got this game i thought all right Re4 for pc and 20$ i installed and well no mouse 
 damn come on i grew up with a computer but here's what i say the controls aren't great but what 
 u gonna do the gameplay still i have this game for ps2 and pc i know how much it rocks sound's 
 great as always value alright alot to get out of it in the end . it has alot of potential but i 
 believe it could've sold more made ubisoft more famous and make people who only have a pc enjoy 
 this game . i believe they didn't try hard enought i feel bad for Capcom 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ultimatexpka
Rating: 1
Date: Oct 28, 2007 11:25 am PT
Review:  If a game dosent give you mouse support then it is officially an immediate 1.0 rating on me. Im 
 not going in stores and spend more money on an adapter. I bought this game to play... not just 
 to move left and right This is ridiculous . I cant believe anyone wouldn't put mouse support on 
 a PCCCC game........... Right after I figured that out. I was going to put my game in a paper shredder. 
 If game developers are going to make a game at least ad mouse support. This is like removing graphics 
 from the game and playing completely blind. This isn't cool. I don't recommend people to buy this 
 game unless you already have a controller then your in luck. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stargategamer
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 6, 2007 5:49 pm PT
Review:  Great game but bad graphics. The reasons are that gameplay graphics are almost as good as the Gamecube 
 and the PS2 versoins. But the cutsecnes will just push you over the edge after beating the game 
 once or twice because in the cutsecens your charter will only return to their default costumes 
 which will disapoint people who spent a long while to beat the game just to see diffrent graphics. 
 But other than that, this game is the best for the PC. The diffuclty on the other hand is just 
 right. The down-side that is even on Easy mode its near impossiable to get the game done. I wonder 
 why in easy mode you can't go through some places, why not easy eneims but same langth? But that's 
 an minor matter for beginers. The end of the game you got two choices: 1. Use the speacil rocket 
 lancher you got from ada and kill saddler in one shot. or 2. Get the rocket lancher but keep on 
 shooting saddler untill he dies. I'll try not to spoil to people who havent played the game yet 
 but you only get a little money if you play the game again after choice 2. But other than these 
 minors the game is a great game for people who don't have these systems. But still disapointing 
 that the consules get the best of it while the P. C. gets it worst. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamerGoff
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 1, 2007 4:37 pm PT
Review:  We've seen the PS2 and Gamecube version of Resident Evil 4. Now Resident Evil 4 for the PC is another 
 remake of it. So, you'll play as Leon S. Kennedy from Resident Evil 2. He is on a mission to find 
 the president's daughter. It has the same features from the PS2 version.
  
  When you play the PC version, there might be some reason this version is good, but there are some 
 reasons you might think this version sucks. The graphics are good, but the visuals have some issues, 
 and the cutscenes are blurry. Sound is great. Thanks to the lack of no mouse and keyboard support, 
 you'll really need a controller to play the PC version. But if you have a european edition of it, 
 you're lucky because they have an patch for it.
  
  Well, if you want a Resident Evil game on the computer and you have a controller. This might be 
 or not the game you want to choose. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: im_back
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 1, 2007 8:09 am PT
Review:  When we heard that Resident Evil 4 was being planed for release on our humble PC, we started to 
 get very excited. Resident Evil has always been at the forefront of the survival horror genre and 
 CAPCOM have proven, once more, that Resident Evil is the granddaddy of all horror games. Resident 
 evil 4 is one scary and twisted game. From the get go you are thrown into a deep end of dread and 
 horror. There isnt a moment in the game where you dont feel like someone or something is going 
 to jump out at you. The game keeps you on your toes through out the experience and keeps you absorbed 
 and entertained through out.
  
  In the game, the player takes control of a survivor of the Raccoon City disaster, now turned US 
 secret agent, Leon S. Kennedy. His mission is to rescue the American presidents daughter Ashley 
 Graham, who was kidnapped and taken to some European country by an unknown group. The game gets 
 going quickly and things get from bad to worse and finally terrible very early in. The pacing of 
 the game is well done with the game getting more challenging as the player progresses through and 
 the story unravels. But unfortunately the game does have its faults and boy do they show.
  
  Lets start with the really bad news and work our way up to the good news, that sounds fair 
 First off, Resident Evil 4 is a console to PC port, yes one of those. Now dont get me wrong, there 
 have been some great console ports over the years but unfortunately Resident Evil 4 isnt the best. 
 Its plagued by shocking and I mean shocking controls. Its better than most ports but still way 
 below par. You can play the whole game using one hand and four fingers count them FOUR! But what 
 really gets me is the developers inability to integrate the mouse into the game play. Im sure 
 many people just love the idea of trying to aim using four keys but some bright scientist some 
 where created a mouse to allow for more natural controlEither way, by far the hardest part of 
 this game is getting used to the control scheme.
  
  The next problem comes down to looks Dont get me wrong, Resident Evil 4 isnt an ugly duckling, 
 not by a long shot but it doesnt live up to 2007 standards. If you think about the amazing visuals 
 that games have achieved over the last few years, its almost unacceptable for a game that is released 
 in 2007 to look as plain as Resident Evil 4 looks. Irrespective of its short comings Resident 
 Evil 4 is still an almighty game. Its been awhile since a game has had such an absorbing story 
 and amazing production value. Playing the game is like watching a very well made piece of Hollywood 
 horror. The game is dynamic and a joy to play, well other than the controls, and is truly one of 
 the best, if not THE best survival horror game ever made. A special mention to the way combat takes 
 place is a must. When you ready your weapon, you can no longer move around and are limited to aim 
 in the general direction you are facing. This can be perceived as a short coming but the feeling 
 of not knowing whats behind you makes for some very intense and tricky fights. The need to lower 
 your weapon to check your flank and rear makes the game feel more real and believable. The developers 
 have really done their homework and know how to freak and scare the pants off the player. Every 
 scene seems to have been carefully constructed to ensure maximum effect and drama and the production 
 value of this game is almost movie quality. But the really amazing thing about resident evil 4 
 is that after completing the game, you can unlock a new playable character with which to play through 
 a side plot. This addition makes finishing the game a must for fans and anyone half interested 
 in what happened while you went about on your killing spree. Speaking of which, you no longer fight 
 against zombies in the sense, well not dead ones. The Spanish speaking, pitchfork yielding, citizens 
 of the European village are fierce foes. They attack in groups and are extremely fast and hard 
 to take down, most times not even a well placed head shot would bring them down. As the game progresses, 
 the player finds out the reasons behind their insane devotion to killing the player and their relentless 
 assaults. Needless to say, some all ghosts appear from the Raccoon City incident and some shocking 
 twists are in store for the player.
  
  Resident Evil 4 is a great game with one big flaw. If you own a console controller then Resident 
 evil 4 would be a breeze to play, if not, I suggest getting one because playing this game with 
 the standard keyboard layout is like trying to drive a truck, a painful chore. Other than this 
 one draw back, its a very entertaining game with plenty of thrills and spills to keep you going 
 until Resident evil 5. Well worth a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: saurabhmisra87
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 28, 2007 9:03 pm PT
Review:  The first thing that I realized after &amp; while playing this game was that this game is BIG. 
 Its a huge game. But I should say the other thing i. e the reason why I started playing this game 
 was the immense amount of VIOLENCE &amp; GORE that exists. I wanted to satisfy my blood-hungry 
 senses and this game delivered more than enough. GAME PLAY ---&gt; The game play is very distinct 
 and innovative but there are quite a few drawbacks listed below.
  1) The keyboard controls arent well incorporated. The bottom line is that youll be better off 
 playing this game with a joypad.
  2) While aiming the player cannot move forward, backward or strafe right or left which becomes 
 necessary when facing hordes of enemies.
  3) Our player LEON can kick the enemies if they are groggy. There should have been an option for 
 him to kick them in any situation especially in cases where they come charging towards us.
  
  But before concluding anything, please go through these positive points about the game play.
 
  1) The aiming system, I thought, is quite real &amp; innovative. Difficult to get used to at first 
 but great fun after that. 2) As I said, the game play involves a lot of violence. The heads, hands, 
 etc. of the enemies kinda explode when shot at. There is a lot of flesh that youll have to blow 
 up into pieces.
  3) Some of the missions have been designed so well that I couldnt help myself from playing them 
 again. For example: The one in which LEON &amp; LOUIS are in a house being attacked by zombies 
 from several places &amp; the one where LEON is in a mine-cart in motion and being attacked by 
 numerous zombies.
  4) The BOSS missions are wonderful. There are 4 level bosses  VILLAGE CHIEF, SALAZAR, KRAUSER 
 &amp; SADDLER (The real villain) . I couldnt tell how exciting it feels after you completely destroy 
 them&amp; step over their decaying carcass. There are several smaller sub-bosses which also offer 
 a lot of challenge. 5) WITH BIG BOSSES COME BIG GUNS &amp; that is exactly what happens here. 
 The guns in the later part of the game are absolutely mind-blowing and I mean it. Big shotguns, 
 mine-thrower, rocket launcher &amp; the best of all THE MAGNUM. All of these can be upgraded to 
 higher levels in firepower, firing speed, reloading speed &amp; capacity.
  6) There is treasure hunting involved &amp; for the 1st time in my life I have seen a concept of 
 combining 2 or more treasures to obtain a more valuable one.
  7) There are several places where these bosses will have you in situations where they can kill 
 you in an instant and to escape youll have to quickly press B5+B6 or B1+B3 on the joypad which 
 brought a lil thrill &amp; chill to the game play. This is heavily used while fighting with IT (sub-level 
 boss) &amp; KRAUSER (level boss) .
  8) The usual zombies also are at times scary since when you blow their heads off, a strange fleshy 
 thing with tentacles or a creature pops out of their necks. STORY ---&gt; The story is really the 
 backbone of the game. It is very engaging &amp; involves a lot of twists and turns. But the only 
 thing that I despised was that we rescue ASHLEY nearly 5-6 times &amp; shortly after that, she 
 gets recaptured. It might make sense but is very frustrating at times. There is a mission where 
 we have to play as Ashley herself which was a good introduction. The missions are beautifully designed 
 and always manage to deliver something different than usual. The cutscenes are blurry giving a 
 strange feeling. There was a problem that all my friends including me had, that the cutscenes used 
 to disappear after running for 4-5 seconds. GRAPHICS -- &gt; The graphics are GOOD. The character 
 design is great with the body of LEON looking quite real. The zombie design is absolutely great 
 with the rotten flesh and blood dripping from thir bodies. The bosses in their full-grown monster 
 form look so good that you cannot stop yourself from desiring to kill them. But my compliments 
 to the designers would really be for the fantastic environment design. Anybody who has completely 
 played this game would agree on the fact that the environment was different and relevant to the 
 concept throughout the game. The village, the castle, the ruins, the mines, the laboratories, the 
 sewers are very well constructed. The rooms never feel like they have been visited before.
  
  AUDIO -- &gt; The sound effects are also GOOD. Voice enactments of the actors are great. The 
 sound effects of the gun shots, the weird noises made by the zombies, the scary roar of the bosses 
 are nicely incorporated.
  
  BOTTOM LINE ---&gt; The game does have a lot of negative features but after playing the game for 
 a little while and after you get used to the game play, the positive features will mask all the 
 drawbacks &amp; itll provide a lot of fun &amp; addictiveness. WORTH PLAYING. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Commando225
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 21, 2007 6:59 pm PT
Review:  I've played most of the Resident Evil Games over the years with different platforms. The first 
 one I've played was the original version on the PC. Like most in the series the story line is good 
 and the game play is good. This one, I found the controls to be lacking and found it frustrating 
 to do long distance shots. Capcom/Ubisoft did not use the best type of controllers for this type 
 of game. A mouse and keyboard would have made targeting a lot easier. I did not like the having 
 to stand still to shoot and getting to judge you knife's distance to target was problematic at 
 best. They changed they way you collect weapons and stuff a bit by adding a merchant in key areas 
 which was stupid to me because how come the bad guys did not kill him. I was annoyed at the fact 
 that I could not buy ammo. You can only buy weapons and weapon upgrades and health spray. Most 
 other items were spawned after killing enemies and breaking wooden barrel and vases. The game did 
 not take full advantage of the PC's graphics card. The character's detail was done pretty good 
 but the background graphics looked pixilated and not lively. They needed more sprites and animation 
 to the background, the background look more like a painting then a 3D world. The character management 
 screen for weapons and ammo and treasure looked too out dated. They need to update the look and 
 style and add crisp graphics not PS1 style look to theses screens. The overall look of the background 
 was more 2d then 3d.
  
  Over all this Game was pretty good. The main down side to the game was not being able to move while 
 shooting and not being able to use the mouse and keyboard. The boot intelligence was poor at times 
 and some of the boss engagements were too hard to gage how the battle was going. The action was 
 static due the game play. So far the best overall game in the series I feel is Code Veronica for 
 the dreamcast. Resident Evil could have learned from this game how to take full advantage of a 
 systems hardware. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Matt7895
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 24, 2007 4:58 pm PT
Review:  Firstly, I should say I do not own a GC and I decided not to buy resident evil 4 for the PS2 after 
 hearing a PC version was made. So I was very much looking forward to this after hearing it was 
 one of the finest games ever made.
  
  Well I've done two playthroughs of the game and I can say the game itself was very fun and interesting, 
 particularly the combat and the camera which I think were very finely tuned. The dialogue isn't 
 as hammy as the Gamespot reviews let on, although the villains are typical Hollywood evil-doers, 
 complete with booming laughter and sinister threats. But it fits in well with the tone of the game. 
 So why haven't I given this game an 8.5 or 9.0 rating like its other versions have received by 
 other reviewers? The answer is simple. The PC version is a very, very bad port.
  
  True it only cost me &pound;15.00 compared to the usual &pound;25.00 I pay for new games and the 
 quality of the content itself justified that price, but the graphics aren't up to par with other 
 releases of 2006. My first example would be the shockingly awful cutscenes. For a completely unexplained 
 reason, the port developers decided to copy over the PS2 low-res cutscenes instead of have them 
 done in-engine like the GC version. Obviously they did it on the PS2 because they didn't think 
 it would have the processing power required to render them in game. Modern PCs far surpass the 
 PS2 on every scale, and the GC too, so why was it such a problem for them NOT to have the cutscenes 
 done properly?
  
  Bizarrely there's no mouse support either and the keyboard controls are locked. If you don't have 
 a good joypad, forget about playing this game. You can thankfully configure the joypad controls 
 in a window outside the game to your own desires, but there are no graphic adjustments to be made 
 despite resolution. Not surprising considering this is, after all, based on the PS2 textures.
 
  
  The graphics are a major disappointment. A patch was released that upgraded them somewhat but they 
 are still inferior to the GC's lighting and bump-maps. I haven't played the GC version but I have 
 seen videos and screenshots and it looks, just from the visuals, like a different game. Leon walks 
 through dark rooms with only one source of light shining a spotlight onto the floor. Creatures 
 jump out at him from the shadows. It looks awesome. You just don't get that on the PC version. 
 It is a tragedy.
  
  Nevertheless, as I previously stated, it is still a very good game, and is fun to play through 
 again and again. The art and level design is particularly a treat, and there's a lot of replayability 
 despite the mostly linear structure. You can upgrade your weapons and health and keep it for the 
 next playthrough, and you'll have a lot of fun just experimenting with the different weapon types 
 in the atmospheric firefights. There's some spooky moments in the game when the music starts playing 
 and the enemies start chanting. Enemies can run at you from every direction, so you have to take 
 your time to aim or you'll soon run out of bullets. A shot to the head kills instantly but is quite 
 tricky on a joypad. Shots to the chest can stagger an opponent so you have time to take out another, 
 a shot to the arm will make him drop his weapon and a shot to the leg will make him fall to the 
 ground. It's a nice realistic touch.
  
  The boss fights and interactive cutscenes are also commendable, requiring you to think fast and 
 have quick reflexes. Gone are the days of sitting back and relaxing during cutscenes; if you do 
 that in Resident Evil 4 you'll find yourself at the reload screen faster than Jack Thompson on 
 a new Take-Two game.
  
  Resident Evil 4 for the PC is a damn fine action game and well worth the purchase. But it could 
 have been so much more. Perhaps with a Wii version on the way Capcom thought they could get away 
 with a quick, lazy port to the PC and focus on their main console market. Maybe it was easier for 
 them to port from the PS2 version instead of the GC. Maybe. Perhaps we'll never know. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RabbitXL
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 18, 2007 7:08 pm PT
Review:  Okay, so it's true what everyone says, there is no official support for the mouse in the PC port, 
 however, after I downloaded the Mouse crack (via eMule) , I think I prefer to use the keyboard anyways. 
 The only real problem I had with the game was that at first they don't explain what actions are 
 assigned to a button (like which button combos do you have have to press to dodge, jump, etc.) 
 After a while of guessing, the game will go on flawlessly!! I had great fun playing it for PC, 
 and I collected all the infamous weapons on this version too (i. e., Handcannon and PRL) .
  
  Just give it a chance and you'll love it too!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sepphyrion
Rating: 4
Date: Sep 13, 2007 12:51 pm PT
Review:  This is something that can hardly be called porting, no mouse support, the game asks you for gamepad 
 buttons even if configured for keyboard, making it virtually impossible to play unless modded (Yes 
 players had to do what the company that did the PC porting should have) .
  
  The graphics are pretty much horrible for today's standards, if I understand it's better on other 
 platforms. Text is very unclear in hud menus.
  
  Storyline seems a bit weird and let's just say it didn't manage to captivate me the least bit, 
 maybe because I was constantly pissed off by the HUGE difficulty of the game in some moments. Just 
 got to one boss battle (at least that's what I think it was) and it took me over 50 reloads to 
 manage to understand that this game is simply best to go in the trash bin. It's just about retrying 
 the same thing over and over again until a glimpse of luck comes out of the blue and you manage 
 to pass to the next part. Even if an increased level of difficulty is welcomed, it should still 
 stay in the humanly possible area, without having to reload certain scenes 100 times to get them 
 right. I consider myself a veteran in PC games and I swear there has never been a game to dissapoint 
 me this bad.
  I can't understand how some people can give it over 9, actually over 5, aside from the collosal 
 problems, there are dozens of other smaller problems like no ingame options/settings menu -&gt; 
 no graphics/sound/key config, inventory and generally the whole hud with its menus is difficult 
 to manage.
  
  Despide some impressive modding efforts from players (mouse support, correct key display ingame) , 
 RE 4 for PC is simply horrible, a waste of time and energy. Do not play it, unless you've a good 
 gamepad and a will of steel. SAVE YOUR SOUL AND GET A CONSOLE VERSION! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kartalozy
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 4, 2007 10:48 am PT
Review:  This was the first Resident Evil game that I have played on the PC. I have played the previous 
 ones on PS1 and PS2.
  
  I was actually pleased to see that many aspects from previous games were still there (Hardly any 
 bullets, mixing herbs etc)
  
  The main disappointment was that there were no zombie at all. I would have thought that they would 
 some how slide the virus in somewhere. Then again there were the zombiesque Ganados or whatever 
 they're called. As for the controls. Within 1-2 hours I managed to get the hang off them. Yes I 
 was using a keyboard. The fact that it ran slow on my computer and I was unable to aim and fire 
 exactly where I wanted (especially aiming for the eyes on the tentacles) was frustrating. But that 
 is my own fault. I should buy a better PC or upgrade it.
  
  The extras at the end were good and the fact that it was different to the predecessors was refreshing. 
 but they need to return to zombies and the other various creatures. Overall I enjoyed it. It was 
 good fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mfizal
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 25, 2007 9:15 am PT
Review:  Thought of writing this so that those who haven't had a taste of this game yet on the PS2 or the 
 Gamecube wouldn't simply trash this game before even trying the patch.
  
  Terrible graphics, lots of bugs &amp; crashes, annoying gameplay; this game was a terrible port 
 of the PS2 version that I played. Well, that was BEFORE I installed the European Patch. Now I played 
 the game at 1680x1050 using a wireless PS2 controller, &amp; the graphics is much much much more 
 impressive than what anyone would see from the PS2 version. I solved the controller problem by 
 getting myself a USB converter that allows PS2 controllers to be played on my PC, &amp; I dare 
 say this game is meant to be played using a controller. Indeed, the game crashed a few times, but 
 it doesn't really bother me as it's very very occasional. Besides, as the patch greatly improves 
 the graphics &amp; all, I am once again playing the best game ever to exist in this world :P
  
  I don't think I'd have to explain how impressive this game is, because I believe no one would 
 dare say this game sucks. The only thing is that I'm quite irritated by those who trashed the PC 
 version without even trying the patch. I've actually finished the game, but I doubt I'd leave it 
 be anytime soon as I'm playing it again &amp; trying to finish the extras. Undeniably, the patched 
 version of this game totally owned the PS2 version in terms of graphics, gameplay &amp; everything 
 else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AhmedYehia86
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 22, 2007 4:06 pm PT
Review:  The game is normal with normal graphic and sound and bad game play as the all games which are made 
 mainly for play station or xbox.
  so you must use gamebads to play it as playing with key board is difficult
  this game is like 
 the other japan games as silent hill and devil may cry
  my feeling to this game is virable according to the stage i am in some stage the game game is very 
 oring and in other the game is iteresting and the finish of it is very fantastic the graphic of 
 this game is strange is acceptable 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alireza2
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 20, 2007 11:33 am PT
Review:  Description`s followed by complication, The difference comes with a detailed look and Adorability 
 starts with the graphics. I get confused trying to choose if it`s a progress or a disappoint. The 
 enemies are A LOT in real word. It reduces their unique almightiness in all R. E series that have 
 made them an enemy symbol in almost all games. Just a shot-gun and a bloody bump to pomp enemies. 
 It`s so easy (except episode bosses which not done easily if haven`t got a rocket) and they tried 
 to make it breathtaking by running a huge number of them during all episodes. Even though the above 
 case causes the game-play losing some of it`s basic values, overall playing the game can be a great 
 experience. The graphics is completely fluent even with a FX 5500 vga card. No doubt Playing a 
 2007 game with an old PC is a chance these days and their job is respectable. Story`s followed 
 logically. It do brings you horror but not a creepy horror. The weak point is that after a while 
 playing the game gets usual and maybe boring to you. No evolution during the game-play and lack 
 of flexibility. As a conclusion can suggest playing RE4 to anyone who`s interested in horror but 
 light one, interested in innovative locations and an acceptable sound.
  
  
  Pros : Sheer Graphics, Effective storyline, Awesome locations, Some Innovative demos, Good sound 
 system, nicely joint episodes.
  
  Cons :
  Huge number of enemies, Some levels so easy and some of the so hard : lack of a perfect balance, 
 Game-play gets boring after a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sachitharox
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 13, 2007 10:23 pm PT
Review:  well what i can say abt this game!!!! i relly luved it starting to play it few days ago! and obbses 
 with it ! one of the greatest Horror game i ever known ! spend lot of hours playing it ! its hard 
 to play without mouse controllers bt hard works makes u a game awesome! if mouse activated in this 
 game its will be so easy to kill Zombies bt with the keyboard controllers its make u soo damen 
 hard ! and thats why i luv this ! coolest graphics with the latest graphics technology ! grafix 
 make a game more alive ! after resque the wolf ! he comin to our help when fightin with the one 
 of the boss i cant remember that monster name nw lolz this game got lot of actions packed ! when 
 the fight with the river monster ! playing with the hooks ! its awesome and i say anytin abt sounds 
 ! i jump off my sit few times coz its to scary! hahaha and the snakes in the wooden box ! make 
 me suprise relly suprised attacks and after shoot the Snake u will get sme money or ammo ! let 
 me give sme tips when u fighting with the lot of Zombies shoot one of head and close to him and 
 press action button and player will kick that zombie and other zombies will affect with it ! with 
 the rifle u can hit lot of zombies with one shoot ! and collect chicken eggs to make ur health 
 up! i didnt finished this game yet ! and this game like prince of persia coz its has to kill sme 
 monsters like Prince Of Persia ! its copy cat :D and u\i found few bugs in this game! when u in 
 the door of Church u cant go down in on of sides ! and auto jumping its not gd thing ! and wolf 
 dogs scary!!! amazing job by Capcom team ! waiting until Resident evil 5 !!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kica81
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 12, 2007 7:38 pm PT
Review:  I played this game on my GC, PS2 and PC. I want to explain something about the PC version and especially 
 to those who can't stop complaining about the controls and graphic. I agree that the graphic is 
 best for the GC (the only thing is bad that you don't have Separate Ways which is quite fun) . When 
 I played the PC version for the first time I wasn't so happy with the graphic but with the latest 
 patch that fixes it, the graphic is more improved. I must admit that the Wii version is doing quite 
 well. I red reviews and seen some of you complaining about controls. I am not having any difficulties 
 with that because I am using a PS2 type (USB) gamepad which is doing the same work as on consoles. 
 So people, this game is not a keyboard-mouse type of playing. So please, go get the gamepad and 
 stop complaining if you haven't tried first with the gamepad.
  
  I would like to encourage you to try and play it in this way as I explained and you will see the 
 difference and some of you will probably change your mind about the PC version of the game.
  
  OOOOOhhhhh and by the way, I discovered a bug which is a quite fun. Imagine playing the main 
 game as Wesker instead of Leon. Go to the mercenaries and chose to play with Wesker but don't choose 
 any scene. Go back to the main screen and start a new game. And there he is. I was very surprised 
 (but after a while it will crush) . I tried only on PC, not on consoles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_hunger
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 11, 2007 1:26 pm PT
Review:  I wasn't expecting a lot from the game after learning that it was a port of a console game. Also, 
 I hadn't played any of the past Resident Evil games. However, if you own a gamepad (especially 
 an XBox 360 controller) , Resident Evil 4 is definitely worth the price. It's a game of the horror/survival 
 genre and packs in a lot of good scares and clever adventuring. It does have a few problems, but 
 overall, I had a blast!
  
  Gameplay: In a nutshell, you are a U. S. government agent sent to rescue the president's daughter 
 from a evil cult in Europe. There are some minor intrigues going on and you'll likely get confused 
 about whose working for whom, but for the most part this is a simple rescue/save-the-world mission. 
 Your travels will take you through villages, an abandoned hospital, factories, sewers, a castle, 
 and an island. The diversity of environments is actually impressive. There is some good loot to 
 be found, but most of it is simply meant to allow you to buy better weapons from strategically 
 placed weapons dealers. And you'll enough using the weapons, trust me. With a XBox 360 gamepad, 
 this game plays well. It's one of those games truly meant to be placed with a gamepad, thus I can 
 excuse the lack of mouse support (though it really should have been supported) . The game offers 
 a lot of good, creepy action, and there are no less than 10 great boss fights. Some of the fights 
 are frustrating and will require repeated efforts. However, they are all satisfying and leave you 
 with a sense of accomplishment when completed. The game lasted me about 30 hours (according to 
 the in-game timer) ; however, its actually longer than that if you count all of the saved games 
 that you'll have to reload after dying (and you'll die many, many times) , along with the bonus 
 missions unlocked after completing the main game. For the bargain price of $20 or less, it's money 
 well spent if you are a fan of adventure and/or horror games.
  
  Graphics: This is a mixed bag. You can adjust the resolution, and the game looks very good at 1600x1200. 
 Character models are done well, though at least 75% of the opponents you'll meet will be zombies 
 and cultists. Most of the cutscenes are not impressive at all and were not apparently touched up 
 as the game was being set up for the PC. Still, the graphics are immersive and set the appropriate 
 foreboding atmosphere.
  
  Sound: The audio is creepy when it needs to be and sedate at other times. Really nothing special. 
 There is some music in the game, but usually it's the kind of hurried ochestral stuff that typically 
 plays in horror movies to get your pulse up. Voices of main characters -- as well as their looks -- are 
 rather juvenille, which takes some of the seriousness out of the subject matter.
  
  Technical issues: The game comes with a thin, but functional manual. There is no tutorial level 
 as far as I can recall, but you'll learn the controls quickly. The game did hard lock my computer 
 about five times, requiring me to reboot my PC. I consider this a serious technical issue, in addition 
 to the few times it crashed to desktop. Still, I could usually play at least 3 hours straight before 
 any problems occurred. I assume a patch could fix this.
  
  Replay/value: For the price that I paid for this ($17.99) , the game was definitely worth the money. 
 However, I'm not one to replay a game that will have the same story line and ending, so I didn't 
 find much replay value here. In sum, if you like a good scare with some wild-side adventuring, 
 Resident Evil 4 is definitely worth a try. Pros: +Creepy and immersive gameplay
  +Great weapons, with many upgrades
  +Some fun puzzles and well-done levels
  +30 solid hours 
 of gameplay at a cheap price
  
  Cons:
  -Some repetitious fighting sequences
  -Some boss fights are tedious and annoying
  -technical issues
  -should have had mouse support 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aruna_lk
Rating: 5.3
Date: Aug 11, 2007 2:34 am PT
Review:  Now before somebody tries to label me as a, Troll let me tell you the
  reasons why this game was so disappointing to me!!
  
  This game killed the Resident Evil series. 
 Everything up to Resident Evil 3
  was good to great but Resident Evil 4 was a badly made game which
  doesn't even live up to the 
 past (story line) .
  
  Maybe this game is not bad if you are playing Resident Evil for the first
  time. Though there's 
 fun, little action in its frame, this stupid attempt at
  a sequel does little credit to the Resident Evil series. And they shouldn't
  have named it as 
 Resident Evil.
  
  Every one is crazy here if they are saying Resident Evil 4 is the
  best in series. If you are a big fan of Resident Evil series
  (especially Resident Evil 3) like 
 my self, this game is a waste of time,
  It's a 100% different story line. This game doesn't have anything to hold
  the player to stick 
 to the game, like in Resident Evil 3. Also no thrill at all
  when playing this game not like early games like Resident Evil 1, 2, 3.
  I'm still in love with 
 Jill Valentine - Resident Evil 3 &amp;
  Leon - Resident Evil 2 and the story of Resident Evil 1, Resident Evil 2
  &amp; specially with 
 Resident Evil 3. What ever others say Resident Evil has
  to be about the T-virus. Not about some crazy cult. As a Resident Evil
  fan I hate this game 
 hope that they will do something better in
  upcoming Resident Evil 5 game &amp; add something to it from the
  upcoming Resident Evil 3 Movie.
 
  
  Rent it first, if you must 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VercettiTommyy
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 11, 2007 2:02 am PT
Review:  Oh yeah, finally we got Resident Evil 4 on the PC, the game that on Gamespot has 3 Editor's Choice 
 reviews, a game of the year 2005 award, &amp; many more. Leon Scott Kennedy is back on duty, this 
 time to find the USA President's daughter, Ashley Graham, who was kidnapped by a mysterious spanish 
 cult. I'll not give spoilers, but I must tell you that you'll hear about Umbrella, Los Illuminados, Las 
 Plagas &amp; meet some old friends from the previous Resident Evil titles. The only not so good 
 thing in Resident Evil 4 (named also Biohazard 4) is the graphics. Not really good textures, bad 
 effects &amp; no shadow support. This is the worst thing, cause if u remember, this is a horror game, that 
 NEEDS shadows!!! But the main theme is great, creepy &amp; creates a mysterious atmosphere. The sound 
 is really really good, the music fits well in that strange atmosphere,&amp; the voice acting is 
 really good realised, both english &amp; spanish ones. The game is a surviaval horror with a 3rd 
 person shooter view. You start by fighting possesed peasants, than come the Las Plagas out of their 
 heads. Later you'll fight Colmillos (Plagad dogs) , cultists with level 2 or 3 plagas (they have other 
 attacks) , Armanduras (gigant armors with plagas) , Novistadors (invisible insects) , Regenerators, Iron 
 Maidens (no, not the band, my rocker friends!) &amp; than commandos. There are minibosses too: chainsaw 
 villagers in Village, Garradors in Castle &amp; JJ-s (minigun commando) on the Island. OK,&amp; bosses, as 
 El Gigante, Del Lago, Village Chief Mendez, Verdugo, U3, etc. You'll use a lot of pistols shotguns, rifles, grenades, which 
 you can upgrade, combine different herbs to heal youreself, sell treasures to gain money, buy bigger 
 cases for storing items, treasure maps &amp; lots of other great things. You'll end up with some 
 boat/train/tractor driven by Ashley/jet sky rides,&amp; that's really nice. Some combos are possible 
 too. The only apparent problem is the mouse support that's missing, but after you get used to it, you 
 can play very good from the keyboard or gamepad. So what the hell are you waiting for, buy the game!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brewer74
Rating: 7.9
Date: Aug 4, 2007 12:38 am PT
Review:  I have played the Resident Evil franchise from the start and have played all the related games. 
 As I have now been graced by the wonders of PC gaming, I have longed for a decent title from the 
 capcom team to come along on the best platform for gaming, the mighty PC. Sadly, this isnt the 
 game that i was waiting for. The game is a direct port from the comsole version, with the story, 
 sounds and most importantly, graphics, mostly the same. The gameplay, though, is still good. You 
 take control of several charachters and the voice acting, while cheesy, isnt that bad. If you have 
 played any of the previous Resident Evil games, then you will be able to dive right in to the game 
 mechanics, with the map, controls and aiming system, very similar to other games from the franchise. 
 The controls are similar to the last and the inventory managment is still there. I would highly 
 reccomend that you play this game with a gamepad, as it is a direct console port and was designed 
 to be played in this manner. The game does look better on the PC, but the dodgy lo-res textures 
 and sprites of the console version is carried through. Overall I did enjoy the game. The story 
 is again chessy, but solid, the gunplay meaty and the choice of weapons varied. If you are a fan 
 of the series then I would suggest giving it a go. Bring on RE5! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: au25
Rating: 6.1
Date: Aug 3, 2007 2:39 pm PT
Review:  it looks like a low budget survival horror, first of all the graphics are too bad for pc the sound 
 is good, you can see many solid substances to collide on one each outher it has awful gameplay with 
 pathetic controls and it doesnt support a mouse so you got to aim with the wasd the gamepaly is 
 pathetic bad aiming zombies that grab you and kill you, the zombies dont wana **** die and if you 
 shoot the headd a worm think comes out and chop your head of, you run out of ammo, especially on 
 bossesTHIS GAME IS SH#T I AM TIRED OF SURVIVAL HORROR BULLSH#T FULL OF ZOMBIES THAT DONT DIE AND 
 YOUR RUN OUT OF AMMO ESPECIALLY ON BOSSES AND KILL YOU AGAIN AND AGAIN, FULL OF STUPID RIDDLES 
 AND PUZZLES AND THE SAME SH#T AGAIN AND AGAIN, yes it has some story and good ideas, however I AM 
 TIRED TO TRY TO FIND OUT WHICH F#CKING BUTTON IS EVERY 2 41 5 3 THAT APPERAR IN THE SCREEN AND 
 IF YOU DONT PRESS THEM IN TIME YOU GET KILLED YOU CANT AIM FOR SH#T THE CAMERA IS PATHETIC AND 
 I AM TIRED OF TRYING TO DEFEAT ENEMIES TWICE MY SIZE WITHOUT AMMO, OR GET KILLED BY TRAPS THEY 
 LAY DOWN AND THE DAM ZOMBIES THROW AT ME DYNAMITES AND AXES IN INFINITY AMOUNT, CHESSUS, OS HOW 
 STUPID IS TO BUY AND SELL GUNS IN A ZOMBIE AREA, GREAT YOU GOTTA FIND MONEY TOO, OH I FORGOT THE 
 AMMO AND PICKUPS AND MONEY YOU FOUND ARE RANDOM SO YOU MANY DONT FIND ANY, SO HOW THE HELL I SHOULD 
 STAY STILL AND TRY TO KILL ZOMBIES THAT ARE BECOMING MORE DANGEROUS AFTER A HEADSHOT AND TRY TO 
 KILL ARMIES OF THEM WITHOUT AMMO, CHESSUS AND ALL THESE AND MORE CRAP WITH PATHETIC CONTROLS AND 
 RANDOM AMMO AND HEALTH PICKUPS WHICH ARE VERY RARE TO FIND IN A VERY HIGH DIFFICULTY, F#CK PS2 
 WAS BETTER BUT IS SUCKS IN PC, WHY TO BUY THIS **** AND NOT COLD FEAR WHICH IS OBVIOUSLY MUCH BETTER! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deadlock64
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jul 30, 2007 5:13 am PT
Review:  Finally some solice can come to strict computer-gamers. Despite some setbacks, the PC port of Resident 
 Evil 4 will appeal to the computer community without losing too much flare, that is, with the right 
 mod or a controller.
  
  Now some people might have seen the game on Gamecube and Playstation 2. There were some awesome 
 graphics on those systems, but in it's transfer to PC, the visuals suffer noticeably. You'll notice 
 that the cutscenes now are a bit blurry, but more disappointing is the framerate. On the consoles 
 it was 60 frames-per-second but now on the PC it's capped at 30; animations are not as smooth as 
 they could be. But on the bright side, the game textures don't suffer much at all. Environments, 
 characters and enemies look just as good on the PC version as those consoles versions.
  
  Now there's a very huge setback afoot when it comes to Gameplay. The initial control support is 
 terrible. You're unable to AIM with the mouse, and when you have to dodge or do some sort of special 
 action, the controls that need pressing are just numbers. Good luck finding your way out of a pickle 
 with this dodging scheme. So this makes it almost paramount that you at least find a decent mouse 
 aim mod, or even better yet, by a controller for your PC. Just having a controller would make this 
 a great PC port rather than decent since half of the problem with this game will be solved. The 
 storyline is also out of the line of fire, you still get emmersed into a story full of twists and 
 turns involving RE veteran Leon Kennedy's rescue mission in Spain gone horrifically wrong. Also, 
 after completing the game, you'll recieve the same perks as in the PS2 version. You'll get access 
 to Seperate Ways, Mercenaries, and the new laser weapon. These will do enough to keep any gamer 
 playing well after completing the original campaign.
  
  So sure, not all is bright for this PC port. But with a controller, this game does seem a bit brighter. 
 Other than some gameplay and graphics issues, although disappointing at times, this game still 
 lends a decent hand to PC gamers who can now enjoy this astounding game many came to love on Gamecube 
 and Playstation 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: denism92
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 28, 2007 11:22 am PT
Review:  Barely two days ago i got a flashback about resident evil games and thats why i decidet to write 
 this.
  
  To be honorest i dont even like resident evil games i was kinda neutral to them sure they were 
 cool and exiting but i didnt want to spend any money on them or to just spell the beans i wasnt 
 a fan og resi series. But resi4 changed my thouths about horrorgames and resi world, briliant and 
 magic game play will chain you to your ps2, gc, pc or wii day after day, new qucker smarter and dangerous 
 enemies give player non stop action .you never get bored of  **** 
 those never learning zomboids actualy its los plagos but il use word zombie. new improved ai gives 
 los plagos brain better than einsteins they will steandy attemp to attack you from sides or surrounds 
 you, equped with farm tools and other radom things like crosbow, swords they do even cotrol a bunch 
 of huge catapults (castle lvl) . Foget about saving your ammo and boring knifing there is ammo every 
 where. In resi 4 you dont find your weapons you buy them from merchants around the world they will 
 buy our old weapons, jewels and even more. Now its possible to upgrade your weapons throuth several 
 lvls until you reach final ultra expensive upgrade. Resi4 uses what around that corner camera system. 
 Camera adjust automaticly after players movement, shooting aiming module, and current terrain. Every 
 single weapon in the game has a laser sigth allows you to target spesific body parts (my advise 
 is aim for the head) shoot the foot and target will fall down. Plenty of bonuses and mini games 
 is your solution if you get tired or bored of single player (story mode) . It will take take before 
 resi4 unlocks all its goodies but its totaly worth it. Anyway the graphic on pc vers is qute a dissapointment 
 .The patch ruins the game after instaling and applying the patch my copy of resi 4 started to crash 
 and give errors, the patch has many good improvments as the fog and ligthing but after my own meaning 
 it only cause trouble. To rewiev resi4 in a sentence. Brilliant game expirinece that will live on 
 in your nigthmares.
  
  If you dont own this game you should ;
  
  A: Die
  B: Go and buy this masterpiece of horror game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jkmetalf
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 27, 2007 8:06 am PT
Review:  This version of RE4 gets more than its far share of hate. I've played through about half of this 
 game and I can tell you that the senseless naysayers should be ignored. With a controller, this 
 game is simply an awesome gaming experience. First, the not so good. No mouse support. Ouch. Keyboard 
 support for aiming is extremely awkward. If you plan on buying this game, pick up a gamepad. ($20) 
 Second, graphics. This port borrowed from the visually inferior ps2 version of the game, with washed 
 out textures, pre rendered crappy looking cutscences and lacking other visual touches. Beyond this 
 though, the negatives are all up to gaming tastes and if your not partial to the R. E series or 
 do not care for third person shooters, you probably won't like this game. Now the good. First, 
 its intense. This game is demanding of some concentration and effort; there is almost never a moment 
 of downtime, even during the cutscenes. Its the kind of game that simply hard to put down. Second, 
 gameplay is great. Its genuinely fun to fight your way through hoards of zombie like (possessed?) 
 villagers and other enemies. And although you have to do the protect an n. p. c dance in this game, 
 its executed far better than more games and is not that much of an annoyance. The game is also 
 a new take on the zombie theme the series. (you'll see) The story itself will keep you guessing 
 and the game has some great settings and atmosphere. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hckiller
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 25, 2007 4:06 pm PT
Review:  Most of u already played resident evil 4 on the GC or PS2
  But finally it&acute; s ported to the PC .
  Story: U take on the role of Leon S. Kennedy an agent 
 under the orders of the president of the U. S. A and u need to save his daughter.
  Game-play: It&acute; s what we are used to in the resident evil series.
  Graphics: They are great 
 for a resident evil game the last RE game was still for PS-One a long time has passed :D.
  The only problem are the cut-scenes they are to low-res for a real pc game thats the problem of 
 porting it.
  Sound: Perfect ambient so the game feels scary and thats whats resident evil is all about.
  
 
  This really is a great game to have in your collection 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AlbertoML
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jul 24, 2007 7:22 pm PT
Review:  I have already reviewed this game for the GC, and I gave it a perfect 10 because I considered it 
 to be the culmination of the DC/PS2/GC/Xbox generation, it combined the best elements of everything 
 and mixed it into a package that delivered a great game, gorgeous graphics, terrific sound, and 
 the most important thing, that it was a blast to play! Now, after appearing on the GC and PS2, 
 it came to PC, and later to Wii. The result brought somewhat mixed feelings about it.
  
  The game brings nothing new to the table, it's the same RE4 you played on the PS2. It's an action 
 game, survival-horror themed. It's the same great game, and you'll have a blast playing it, but 
 if you never played it before, it won't be such a great experience on the PC. Here are the details:
 
  
  The most important issue here is that the conversion wasn't very good. Almost no effort went into 
 converting the console experience to a PC one. The controls are fine, but it's a little difficult 
 to aim with the keyboard, so a gamepad is highly recommended; I played it with the Xbox 360 Controller 
 and it was fine, the controls were set up very well and only had slight issues while aiming, it 
 wasn't as responsive as the GC controller but it got the job done; also, the context actions while 
 in cutscenes are hard to perform with a keyboard because it only says to press buttons 1 and 2 
 or 5 and 6 , it doesn't say Alt and Ctrl or something like that, on the 360 controller it's easy 
 to identify the buttons but not so much on a keyboard.
  
  Also, the graphics were a mixed bag. Some objects, such as characters and items, look even better 
 than the GC/Wii version, with higher-res textures, but most of the environments still look low-res 
 by PC standards, and most of the atmospheric effects found in the GC/Wii are gone, so everything 
 looks super-sharp but bland, some fire, heat and water effects that made the GC/Wii versions so 
 impressive are gone. The game doesn't let you modify graphical settings, such as enabling shadows, 
 antialiasing or other things, you can only change the resolution, but at least it does support 
 widescreens. To add insult to injury, the cutscenes - as in the PS2 version - are videos recorded 
 from the GC build, but they were badly compressed, as they look very, very blurry and definately 
 detract from the experience. Also, menus, HUDs and other stuff look pixelated, as these elements 
 weren't prepared for a higher-res version of the screen.
  
  The sound is mostly OK. There were no features added. The sound effects still sound great, as the 
 music does, too. The only complaint is that it doesn't support Dolby, not native 5.1 on the PC, 
 nor Pro Logic II. I connected it to my Pro Logic II receiver and the rear effects were still sounding 
 on front, so the sound is in Stereo only.
  
  Of course, since it's a PC game, you can add non-official patches and mods to make your experience 
 better. I added a patch for higher-quality cinemas and it helped A LOT, and also a patch to make 
 the laser aim semitransparent (like in the console versions) . I've seen patches to improve textures 
 but those didn't help a lot, so I only used those two, but the review is for the game without the 
 unofficial stuff.
  
  The game features the same bonuses found before: Special Costumes Set 1, the Assignment Ada and 
 The Mercenaries minigames, and the PS2 exclusives: the Special Costumes Set 2, Separate Ways (Ada's 
 missions for the Story Mode) , Movie Gallery, and the PS2-exclusive weapon, so it features a lot 
 of replay value, even if you already played the game; the bad thing is you still have to finish 
 the game once in order to access the extras, so if you finished it before, you must do it again.
 
  
  Of course, by now, you can get all of these extras in the Wii version, plus motion controls and 
 GC-quality graphics. I see this version as the last resort so as not to miss this game. The best 
 version is the Wii one, but since we know finding a Wii is hard, you can always pick the GC or 
 PS2 build, but if you really have no other choice, then pick this version. In the end, although 
 a little flawed, the terrific game design is still present here, even with the presentation issues. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grillo87
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 23, 2007 4:06 pm PT
Review:  Well this game is a really good example to all the survival games, it take so many new changes 
 in the game-play of the traditional Resident Evil games that blow your mind, but there is a little 
 thing i must have to say, the difficulty of the game I think is zero, don&acute; t get me wrong 
 it&acute; s a excellent game, the plot, the gameplay, the environment, but I fell like in Capcom 
 have abandoned the puzzle part, because there only like 4 puzzle in all the game, and they&acute; re 
 really dumb, at least i think, so, they should work a lot in the puzzle part for Resident Evil 
 5 to really find a perfect game, in all the others way I think this game is amazing!
  Long live to Resident Evil, I&acute; m happy with the come back of this saga to PC, thanks Ubisoft, 
 I hope that this wound&acute; t be the last adaptation for us of Resident Evil. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Icarus405
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 22, 2007 4:32 am PT
Review:  It's been about two and a half years since the GameCube exclusive Resident Evil 4 was released. 
 Since then it's smashing success forced Capcom to release it on other platforms, where it's success 
 was even greater, until it made it to the PC. Though the PC version manages to look as good or 
 (after patching) better than the orignal, it's still an extremely straightforward port and an opportunity 
 lost to bring one of the greatest games of all time to PC gamers in it's full glory. You play as 
 Leon Scott Kennedy, a former police officer and Raccoon City survivor, who now works as a special 
 agent for the United States government. The president's daughter has been kidnapped and traced 
 to a village in central Europe. The government decides to send Leon to investigate, but soon enough, 
 Leon finds himself in a world of trouble as the whole village is bent on erradicating him. But 
 it won't be easy, since these aren't zombies. These enemies can run, work together, improvise and 
 arm themselves with any weapons they can find. The story might have some clich&egrave;'s in it, 
 but for the most part it's interesting, original and well executed. The gameplay hasn't changed 
 at all, since this is a direct port of the PS-2 version. Most of the time you will be in combat, 
 using a variety of weapons to take down single powerful enemies or whole crowds of makeshift weapon 
 wielding lunatics. This isn't your typical shooter, you have to conserve ammunition and make your 
 shots count. By the end of the game, you will be able to take down crowds using only your pistol. 
 The most important factor is where you shoot. Headshots will obviously cause lots of damage, but 
 sometimes enemies will cover their faces using their hands or bullet proof helmets. In these cases, 
 you can shoot them in the legs while they are running, so they fall down or shoot them in the knees 
 and and then kick them back. Shots to the head will also stagger enemies, so you can kick back 
 them and anyone around them, this is the very basic concept of fighting a crowd. Besides firearms, 
 one of your most important weapons is your knife. Once an opponent is knocked down, you can use 
 your knife on them to conserve ammunition, though most of the time you will be using it to bust 
 open containers, break locks or disarm traps. The areas in which you play are very large, but the 
 loading times are nice and short. Throughout the game you will find treasures, precious stones 
 and artifacts that you can combine and then sell for the highest possible price to a mysterious 
 merchant who you will encounter from time to time. This merchant not only offers weapons and first 
 aid sprays, but he can also upgrade your weapons and inventory, which is critical if you want to 
 survive. Speaking of inventory, Residen Evil 4 has some well placed RPG elements in it as well. 
 You can increase your maximum health using different herb mixtures and you also have an inventory, 
 which limits the amount of objects you can carry. Unlike a lot of inventory based games, in Resident 
 Evil 4 you can rotate the items to make them fit better. Even though you can enlarge your inventory 
 remarkably, you will still find it stuffed with all kinds of herbs, grenades and ofcourse weapons. 
 Enemies are slow when they approach you, but that is countered by the fact that you can't move 
 while aiming. If you decide to turn around and run, enemies will relentlessly chase you. Once you 
 are spotted it is almost impossible to shake them off. Even if you hide behind a door, they will 
 either break it open or simply break it down to the ground. You don't have a crosshair, instead 
 all your weapons (except the sniper rifles) use laser sights, this adds to the immersion, though 
 Leon's shaky hands can be a niusance when trying to pick off targets at a longer range. The game 
 almost never gives you a break, if you aren't fighting off massive amounts of enemies, you will 
 either be working on a puzzle or readily holding your controller during a cutscene to dodge or 
 attack foes using a combination of buttons. The graphics can easily rival that of the original 
 GameCube version, though only after you patch the game to 1.1.0, which creates lightmaps and adds 
 shader support, but it will increase the requirements significantly. If you have an older system 
 you can easily run the game without the patch, though it will look a lot worse. The reason it looks 
 worse is that the filters commonly used the make console games look better (and might i remind 
 you that this is the direct port of the PS-2 version) has been removed. Because of this, most areas 
 will look amazing yet some look absolutely atrocious. Why they removed it is beyond all logic, 
 but if you have atleast a medium quality PC you wont have to worry about it. One thing that will 
 plague all players is the fact that the cutscnes look horrible. They have a low resolution and 
 high gamma, but that's OK as long as the team who ported the game didn't have to spend extra time 
 correctly converting the cutscenes. Also, during the cutscenes you can clearly see when one cutscene 
 connects to another, this will drastically reduce the intensity of cinematic fights. One thing 
 that you have to remember before playing this game, is that you should probably sit about a metre 
 and a half away from your screen and lower your brightness and contrast for the game to look alright, 
 this is especialy critical for those who don't use the patch. The sound is completely intact, just 
 like the gameplay. The whole game sounds phenomenal. Whether you are firing a weapon, kicking open 
 a door or hearing someone get crushed. What the cutscenes lack in visuals, they make up for in 
 sound, every time you hear Leon get knocked around, you will cringe at the grotesque realism of 
 the sound. The voice acting is also great and really brings you closer to the characters. The controls 
 are awful. Absolutely no work was done to make it playable with a keyboard and mouse. Mouse support 
 is completely non-existent and the keyboard controls are extremely clumsy and numbered in the game 
 so you won't have any idea what you are supposed to press at first. Though you can find programs 
 that add mouse support, your best bet is to just use a gamepad. If you have a Xbox 360, it's controller 
 would be your best choice. Anything resembling it or a PS-2 controller will do great as well. Once 
 you are done with the ~20 hour main story, you will also be able to play Separate Ways, which shows 
 the story from a different perspective, providing faster gameplay and another 5 hours of intense 
 fights. And once you are done with that, you can play Assignment Ada or The Mercenaries. In the 
 first you will play a ~1 hour mission with the same fast paced action of Separate Ways. The second 
 is a score based mini-game in which you have to dispose of as many enemies as you can before the 
 timer runs out. For every 4 star rating you will unlock a new charater. Once you have gotten 4 
 stars on all the levels with all the characters, there will be a special surprise in store for 
 you. All the extras will be unlocked after beating the game just once and will be available to 
 play in any order. The extra games don't have any difficulty levels, but the main story can be 
 played on either Easy, Normal or (after you beat the game) Professional. All games will unlock 
 new content, whether in the form of new weapons or costumes. Capcom really didn't hold back with 
 the extra content. Overall, Resident Evil 4 for the PC is excellent, but only if you have a gamepad, 
 a good PC and the ability to forgive some of it's haunting flaws. If you have a PS-2, GameCube 
 or Wii, you should definitely get one of those versions. If not, 20 dollars is still a great price 
 to pay for this game.
  
  For a graphics comparison of the PC and GameCube, check this link:
  
  http://www. gametrailers. com/player/20139. html 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: macrules_640
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 16, 2007 5:48 pm PT
Review:  Resident Evil 4 has finally come to the PC which is a good thing right? Well in some words yes 
 and no, but that means you shouldn't pass this game up if you have not played the GC, Wii, and PS2 
 version yet. The story which I'm sure most everyone know goes something like this, Leon the hero 
 of Resident Evil 2 is back and is on a mission to save the president's daughter and it takes place 
 six years after RE 2, along the way he meets up with old friends and old enemies and some crazy 
 people as well. Now I'll try and talk about the good parts of RE 4 on the PC, but there are only 
 a few first if you can't afford the other versions then this version will only set you back 20 
 dollars and the graphics are average by pc standards, but it's no Gamecube version. The bad points 
 of the game are the lack of mouse support which is bs on Ubisoft and Capcom's part so do yourself 
 a favor and if you want to pick this version up make sure you have a controller handy. The PC is 
 no where near the graphic goodness of the GC and the Wii version, but it's more like a PS2 port 
 with the renderer cut scenes that are in the PS2 version instead of the in game cut scenes that 
 are in the GC and Wii versions, and if you do use the keyboard your in for a tough time because 
 the keyboard layout is to hard to remember, but if you want to experience RE 4 if you don't have 
 a console and have a high end PC go out and get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctor_kaz
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jul 9, 2007 10:52 am PT
Review:  Third person survival horror has been a staple on consoles for a long time now, but these games 
 have never made much of an impact on the PC. This year, Resident Evil 4 finally arrives on the 
 PC with an almost unmatched pedigree. It is widely considered to be one of the best games of 2005, 
 one of the best games on the Gamecube, and the best game ever in this genre. But how does the game 
 stack up to the best that the PC has to offer? Unfortunately, not very well. In terms of gameplay 
 and presentation, you have probably played a lot of games that are better at both. Its a good 
 game and it has a terrific budget price, but it still doesnt stack up with the PCs best.
  
  In a nutshell, Resident Evil 4 is a slow-paced third person action game that features extremely 
 close encounters with small groups of enemies and a lot of exploration. It also shows off some 
 minor RPG elements like money, inventory and upgradeable weapons. In addition, it has an occasional 
 (and highly forgettable) Dragons Lair style interactive cutscene that requires mashing certain 
 buttons in accordance with instructions on the screen. Most of the game is solid and blends together 
 nicely, as long as you are willing to accept one major issue: sluggish controls. Resident Evil 
 4 was designed around a gamepad, so much that it would probably be impossible to enjoy it with 
 a mouse and keyboard (this may explain why CapCom included no mouse support in this version) .
 
  
  Here is how the control works. You move your character with the left stick and adjust the camera 
 with the right stick. With one of the shoulder buttons or triggers, you go into aiming mode, and 
 then use the left stick to place the laser sight for your gun onto an enemy. While you are in aiming 
 mode, you cannot move. Aiming is slow and clumsy, because the analog control makes it very difficult 
 to line up a quick bulls eye. Its especially hard if you arent used to aiming this way. Enemies 
 usually crash through doors, spawn, or round corners very close to you, so that you have to aim 
 and take down three or four of them at close range while they slowly lumber toward you. Since you 
 cant walk backwards while you shoot, all of these encounters are tense and challenging. You also 
 cant strafe in the game, and that makes it hard to round dangerous corners. Despite these issues, 
 the games core mechanics can be fun, as long as you accept that the intensity is somewhat manufactured, 
 thanks to the control scheme. The controls are not terrible, but they seem contrived to make it 
 hard to shoot the games slow enemies harder to kill. If you could move while shooting or line 
 up head shots with the mouse all day, the game would probably be too easy.
  
  The shooting mechanics are enjoyable, but flawed. Ultimately, this problem is what keeps Resident 
 Evil 4 from becoming a great game. Once you have experienced the cat-and-mouse hunts of F. E. A. R., 
 the visceral brain bashing fests of Condemned: Criminal Origins, or the tactical shootouts of S. T. A. L. K. E. R.: 
 Shadow of Chernobyl, its hard to be impressed by the gameplay that is offered here. Not all of 
 the game, however, is spent blasting away at enemies. Resident Evil 4 also has RPG-style exploration, 
 inventory, and trading. You can find a lot of what you need by exploring the nooks and crannies 
 in the game, breaking open barrels, or solving simple puzzles. An informative map screen shows 
 you where you are in the world at all times and where you need to go next. Its a nice feature 
 that more action games should have. Meanwhile, a seedy merchant meets you at certain points in 
 your quest to sell you new weapons and upgrades. Your Diablo-style inventory forces you to make 
 trade-offs when deciding what weapons to carry. You might want to buy that shiny new rifle, but 
 you might have to drop your shotgun to do it, and since ammo is relatively scarce, you have to 
 carefully consider what weapons you are going to use. These elements are all very well done, and 
 they add some cerebral material to the game that most action games dont have.
  
  Another aspect of Resident Evil 4 that is unique is its setting. The game is set in a dank, dirty, 
 rundown Western European wilderness around late October or November. The leaves have fallen from 
 the trees and everything in the area looks brown and dead. This new take on horror style adds an 
 atmosphere of foreboding in a refreshing way, since most other horror games simply consist of darkness 
 and tight corridors. Enemies are also nicely animated. They shamble towards you slowly, use their 
 weapons convincingly, and, best of all, recoil, stumble, and cry in pain when you score a shot 
 on them. Occasionally, you can pop an enemys head with a well-placed shot and it erupts in a George-Romero 
 like explosion of blood while the headless body takes a lifeless step towards you and falls. This 
 style makes the visuals tolerable, because otherwise, the game is ugly and outdated. The PC version 
 of this game is largely indistinguishable from the PS2 version. Polygon counts on buildings and 
 enemies are low, while textures and skins are crude and simplistic. Many of the games cut scenes 
 have been pre-rendered in the games engine, which makes them look grainy and abysmal. There are 
 some nice aspects to the presentation, but its still not an attractive game.
  
  The audio is slightly more impressive than the graphics, but it is still unremarkable. The voice 
 acting and writing are generally pretty good, especially for the main character. Sound effects 
 like weapons fire and footsteps sound competent but not excellent, and enemies holler angry taunts 
 at you in Spanish as they attack you. Overall, the audio is good, but it fails to provide any memorable 
 noises or create a creepy atmosphere.
  
  If Resident Evil 4 has one other major flaw, its that the game simply isnt very scary or suspenseful. 
 Whether it is actually trying to be scary isnt clear. It feels more like a B movie action/horror 
 flick than something that legitimately tries to keep you awake at night. The character that you 
 play looks like a boy band graduate and that sets the stage for a story that is hard to take seriously. 
 The best horror games convey feelings of dread and isolation. They make you fear the unknown and 
 they show the dark side of not just the supernatural, but humanity as well. Resident Evil 4 wholeheartedly 
 fails in this respect. It is a good, but unscary (and overrated) zombie and monster-blasting gore 
 fest. If you are on the fence about buying this game, then there is one factor that may affect 
 your decision  the budget price. Its hard to go wrong with an action game that costs only $20 
 and features 15 hours of solid gameplay. The time spent in the game is very well-paced, and the 
 level design is very good. Resident Evil 4 has a few big flaws, but it is not a bad game by any 
 stretch of the imagination. Even if you dont like the idea of aiming with an analog stick or you 
 need cutting edge graphics to enjoy the game, you cant find another game like this on the PC, 
 and youre not risking much money to buy it. Good scary games are rare gems. In the past couple 
 of years, the PC has seen a handful of horror titles that decisively trump Resident Evil 4 when 
 it comes to graphics, atmosphere, controls, and suspense. If you are looking for a good scary game, 
 you should play those first. After reading about how amazing this game was on the Gamecube and 
 PS2, its easy to be disappointed by how above average it is. However, Resident Evil 4 is still 
 worth playing, thanks to its budget price and enjoyable exploration and shooting elements. If you 
 are looking for a good, tense action game or just something different on the PC, then it is a game 
 worth checking out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: clarkshuler
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 9, 2007 6:54 am PT
Review:  Resident evil was good on GCN, DS, Ps2 and now it's good on PC too. The PC version *does* have 
 mouse support that someone has homebrewed, which in reality, takes some of the fun away if you 
 can kill twenty zombies with 20 head shots.
  
  The core game play remains untouched and, as with every other RE Series, it is well done here. 
 The zombies are chilling and the audio is very well done, dropping out at just the right moments 
 for you to hear to low-passed moan and grumbles on the audio track. Creepy
  
  The point where the game suffers, even with the ability to use AA and other options is the graphics. 
 Yeah it looks cool in game, but after my perfectly rendered Leon runs to a Cinema trigger, and 
 is replaced with a blurry cardboard-cutout Leon, my enjoyment is lessened. The gameplay port is 
 great, but the port of the PS2 straight cinematic is kinda sloppy.
  
  It's still a great game and worth the 40 bucks ($20 game and $20 gamepad) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dark_prince2007
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 8, 2007 2:36 pm PT
Review:  Resident Evil 4 marks a new chapter in the Resident Evil series. You'll rejoin Leon S. Kennedy 
 six years after his first mission as a rookie cop from Resident Evil 2. Now a US agent, Leon is 
 on a top secret mission to investigate the disappearance of the president's daughter. As Leon, 
 you must make your way to a mysterious location in Europe, where new enemies await. Take them down 
 by using enhanced aim-and-shoot features and a new action button
  he government has destroyed the Umbrella Corporation, which has been behind just about every plot 
 and disgusting bio-chemical mutation in the survival horror series. Now-US agent Leon Kennedy (of 
 Resident Evil 2 fame) has been dispatched to Europe to save the President's daughter from crazed 
 organizations. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThePunisherBR
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 9, 2007 2:41 pm PT
Review:  I do not understand why people find this version of resident evil to be inferior to those seen 
 in consoles. The main problem is that you have to buy - i already had - a PS2-like USB gamepad. 
 The second problem is the cinematics, that are inferior to those in consoles. But that's all. You 
 have a game of quality on PC, with clean graphics - shadows and fog can bother some players and, 
 without they, gameplay can be better than in consoles. The story is the same, including options 
 after you finish the game. So, you exchange worse cinematics for clean graphics and you have a 
 difference of more than 1.5 points in gamespot evalution. I consider it a must play and these minor 
 problems do not justify severe critics. If you love to play PC games - just like i do - and own 
 a gamepad (or, even better, you love resident evil series) you should ignore these nonsense reviews. 
 I enjoyed playing and, as i still have some days to play, i will replay the game with fully upgraded 
 weapons. One advice: the game is long (about 30 hours to finish, i took 26 hours) and offers another 
 chance to play the game after you finish. You can play Ada's Assignment and Separate Ways (more 
 5 hours to finish, it is a short story, viewed by Ada's point of view) That's all folks!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pyshco
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 6, 2007 9:47 am PT
Review:  resident evil 4 was was the best resident evil series to hit the gamecube recently after it hit 
 the ps2 platform with graphics that wasnt as good as the gamecube but added lots of content and 
 extra features, the pc version however came all with the above but the graphics was horribly ported 
 and so was the control scheme thus making resident evil very bad indeed. soon after a patch was 
 made to correct some issues only some though. recently the players have made mods which enhance 
 graphics such as high res texture packs and control map schemes and various other helpful tweaks 
 to the game which makes it surpass the graphics of the gamecube if u can download and get these 
 mods working then is an A+ game if not and u can only manage the patch it will be not as good C- 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KFCDude
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 5, 2007 10:24 pm PT
Review:  The fact that i think that they got lazy and just made a really cheap port for the pc... all the 
 videos/cutscenes are recorded straight off of the consoles and it looks HORRIBLE! and another big 
 downside is the controls.... It would be all fine if we are able to use the mouse with out download 
 special mods to use the mouse as a joystick... overall its still great game. So yea just go spend 
 ur money on the game for the consoles cuz its worth it. I really would of bought it for my ps2 
 but my controller was takin away and i realy wanted to play this game after playing bits of it 
 on the gamecube. I regret buying it for the pc and coulda waste my money on a new controller and 
 the game for my ps2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Colton48
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 2, 2007 5:14 pm PT
Review:  The Game is very fun I found my self extremely addicted at time its got a very good story line 
 for a game.
  
  The controls are kind of weird because you have to use the use the keyboard for everything.
  
 
  Gameplay:9-10
  Sound:8-10
  Controls:7-10
  Graphics:7-10
  Value-9-10
  
  Im really impressed with this game so far it has some awesome levels and some pretty scary parts.
 
  
  Very fun resident evil game I reccomend buying this if you want a good zombie game its the best 
 in its series for sure.
  
  A Nice job to Ubisoft and Capcom on this game Really nice job.
  
  Thanks for reading this review. 
 :-) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shexcel
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 1, 2007 5:35 pm PT
Review:  I would like to address the subpar reviews given to the PC version. The critics would have you 
 believe that this game deserves a 7-8 score because of the lack of mouse support and the alleged 
 underwhelming graphical goodies. Hogwash!
  
  RE4 for the PC remains a fresh and extremely fun experience because of the enhancements the PC 
 platform allows to the graphics (high resolution gaming, AA and AF) but mainly because the core 
 gameplay mechanics remain intact. I need not delve into why the gameplay is so successful as this 
 has been addressed ad nauseum in all the other reviews. The game is a masterpiece and its port 
 to the PC does nothing to take this away. If you manage to purchase a gamepad (which might cost 
 you 15 bucks in addition to the 20 you spent for the game) the lack of mouse support becomes a 
 mute point. RE4 was meant to be played on a gamepad and not a mouse as the 3rd-person camera view 
 lends itself better to the former. As for the graphics, I feel that the PC looks incredible and 
 find myself often staring in amazement at the quality of the work Capcom put into the background 
 and character models. Playing this game on an LCD screen with widescreen support at 1650 res is 
 truly an amazing sight. The GC and PS2 versions simply cannot compare in this department. There 
 may have been a deficiency in lighting and shader effects that were not ported correctly to the 
 PC from the GC, but this is overall a minor point. Besides, with the US release, there was a patch 
 that addressed this issue added on and makes up for a lot of the missing goodness. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: godofwarfan2929
Rating: 6.1
Date: Jun 27, 2007 8:45 pm PT
Review:  Resident Evil 4 Came Out Just For The GameCube Then It Went To PS2 (Total Letdown) Now It Has Come 
 Back For The PC (Oh God.....)
  Well First OF All The Difficulty Is The Same Easy Which Is BAD Because The Human Zombies That Look 
 More Like Mentally Challenged Retards Are Dumb As Sticks Most OF The Time.
  I Spent 10 To 20 Hours Playing Resident Evil 4. I Dont Know Why I Guess I Was Just Bored (Hey Arent 
 We All At Some Point)
  The Controls You Will Master From 30-60 Minutes.
  The Gameplay Their Is Nothing New Which IS Severely Disapointing.
  The Graphics Are Outstanding 
 Holy Crap This Is Probably The Only Thing They Changed. Good Job Ubisoft And Capcom You Made The 
 Graphics Better CONGRATULATIONS!!!!!
  The Soundtrack fills in with the game which thats good.
  The Value Is Not Worth It Not One Bit.
 
  So Far This Game Blows Chunks Which It Will Always. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eugenioteran
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 23, 2007 5:36 am PT
Review:  Ok, so the PC version doesn't have that much score as the XBOX and Playstation 2 versions, but 
 since I only played it on the PC, I can really say that this game is awesome.
  
  You once again take control of ex-Raccoon City PD member Leon Scott Kennedy, now a freelancer of 
 some sort, headed to a weird Spanish village to save the president's daughter from the evil clutches 
 of some dark cult.
  
  So what does this Resident Evil do to separate it from all the others? Well, that's quite a lot 
 of things.
  
  Now... I haven't mentioned Umbrella anywhere, nor the word zombie . That's because they don't play 
 a role here. That's right, a non-zombie Resident Evil... that's weird, right?
  Yes, actually, but it doesn't make the game any worse. In fact, it's a breeze of fresh air to face 
 enemies that have... well... a bit more intellect than zombies. At the very least they can carry 
 different weapons or elaborate a plan of attack, and while that's not so hot for Leon, it's great 
 for us players.
  
  Another difference is the shooting system. While on other R. E. games you had to press a button 
 and the player automatically located the nearest enemy, Resident Evil 4 now uses a new system: 
 you press the aim button and a crosshair appears onscreen, and you have to use your keyboard to 
 make Leon aim properly. This is a pretty cool new shooting way, and I know you'll receive it with 
 arms wide open, even when you get really pissed because you need a lot of bullets to take a man 
 down.
  
  As I said earlier, your enemies are not zombies, but brainwashed farmers from somewhere around 
 Spain. Spanish speaker as I am (though not from Spain but from Argentina) , I was truly delighted 
 to hear civilians speak flawless spanish all the way, so that was another thumbs up for me. If 
 you're not familiar with spanish, you pretty much need to know that they curse you (a lot) , threaten 
 you to chop you to pieces, and call the other fanatics if one spots you. Needless to say, spanish 
 knowledge is not mandatory on this game.
  
  One very important feature that this game has is the length. It is, by far, the longest Resident 
 Evil game ever. Even with the coolest weapons, it will still take you around 4 hours to re-complete 
 the game. And it took me about 12 hours to finish it the first time. This is great, as it also 
 has A LOT of replay goodies, hidden weapons, new scenarios and players, and all the hot stuff Capcom 
 is used to spoil us (thanks Capcom!!) .
  
  Another new thing that really moved me: weapon acquiring. You hardly ever find weapons lying around, 
 but there is one strange man that you'll find once in a while that sells these weapons. How do 
 you get money? Well, enemies throw Pesetas (Spain's currency and also the money in the game) , you'll 
 usually find treasures in hidden places (some treasures are incomplete, and you have to find all 
 the pieces to sell it for a higher price) , or you can sell your old weapons. How do you get bullets? 
 That's easy: find them throughout the game. The Merchant doesn't sell weapons, and you'll find 
 yourself plenty of times out of handgun ammo. Do the weapons have anything special? Yes they do: 
 you can mod them!!!! That's right!! The Merchant offers you, let's say, a handgun. Then you can 
 mod it for better accuracy, greater bullet capacity, higher damage ratio and faster reload time. 
 This is a VERY cool addition.
  
  Another new thing: Leon can die. Easily. Not just by letting civilians poke his guts with farm 
 equipment, but there are certain times in the game where you'll be forced to follow a series of 
 button sequences to keep Leon from, say, getting crushed by a giant boulder. Should you miss, it's 
 going back to the nearest checkpoint. This can be annoying, but at the same time gives you a new 
 edge on the game's dynamics, and I, for one, welcome it.
  
  How do you keep your stuff? He's got luggage. And it can be upgraded, thank God, because weapons 
 use a lot of space, and so does ammo and healing equipment. This is well designed and you'll scarcely 
 be forced to throw some ammo to keep a First Aid Spray. Oh, no  
 here, like other R. E. Too bad.
  
  One more thing: sometimes, Leon is not alone, but very well accompanied by the beautiful Ashley, 
 the president's daughter he is meant to rescue. While she obviously doesn't fire weapons but rather 
 make you worry about her not being killed (you can kill her with a weapon, she can be hurt by enemies, 
 or they'll try to steal her from you) , I also welcomed this addition.
  
  Now, let's go to the real deal. Let's see how does this game score in every aspect, shall we?
 
  
  PLAYABILITY: awesome. The new aiming system and the improved intelligence of the enemies make this 
 game absolutely interesting from beginning to end. Enemies also rotate regularly, so you'll never 
 find yourself fighting against the same psycho for too long. There are enough enemies and enough 
 new ways of fighting them to keep you stuck to your chair for a long time.
  
  LENGTH: I said it earlier, this is the longest R. E. game I ever played. Even longer than the 2-story 
 Resident Evil 2. Don't worry, your money is very well spent here.
  
  REPLAY VALUE: excellent. Capcom stuck a lot of goodies here. Some of them are a somehow long and 
 very interesting side story of Ada Wong (we all remember her from R. E.2) , that can last about 2 
 hours or so. You also have a mode that puts you in a map, fills your behind with enemies and you 
 have a period of time to kill as many of them as you can. There's another Ada mode where you have 
 to infiltrate a militar facility of some sort. This one is short, but very complicated, so it will 
 keep you entertained for long. Also, once you finish the game, you'll unlock two AMAZIIIIIIIIING!!!! 
 secret weapons that you have to buy for a whole lot of money but have infinite ammo. I will not 
 spoil you which weapons they are but believe me, you'll want them. You also have new suits, for 
 Leon and for Ashley.
  
  SOUND: excellent. Every sound and every music in the game fits perfectly with the place you're 
 visiting, and music is displayed loud enough to be heard but faint enough to keep the mistery and 
 fear on your behind. Weapon sounds, civilian sounds, voice acting, it all adds up flawlessly.
 
  
  SYSTEM REQUIREMENTS: for people like me that have a rather old processor and only 512 MB RAM, I 
 was pleased to see that the game didn't need any more to run smoothly. You don't have much to configure 
 in video options, but that's ok, the game looks great anyway.
  
  GRAPHICS: speaking of that, graphics are awesome; maybe a bit too pixelated for a 2007 game, but 
 no complaints. Buffer memory is very well used, and this results in extensive maps, with lots of 
 places to go before you have to walk through another door and wait for loading time. I loved that; 
 felt like San Andreas in a way.
  
  I really don't know what else to say about this masterpiece. I installed it and replayed it about 
 five times, also doing all the sidegames and viewing all the extras, buying all hidden weapons 
 and trying all 2 costumes (loooooved Ashley's costumes) . I can't reccomend it enough. I'm a big 
 big big fan of Resident Evil, and to say that this one is the best really should give you an idea 
 of how amazing it is. I wouldn't buy a PS2 or XBOX just to play this one. Even though it doesn't 
 fare well against those versions, this one is just great enough. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spacefan
Rating: 5
Date: Jun 21, 2007 9:27 am PT
Review:  I bought this game because I'm really desperate for a shooter. There seems to be a lack of shooters 
 right now until about August. At any rate, I bought this game and after trying to play it, noticed 
 the PC keyboard interface was extremely clunky and mouse support was non-existent. No problem, 
 I'll change the settings. Uh, no can do. You can't change the keyboard settings ! So, this game 
 is worthless without a gamepad. Okay, backup option... is there an XBOX 360 version? NO! Kudos to 
 Capcom for doing a direct port to PC without improving the keyboard interface or providing mouse 
 support. NICE! At least Gamestop is now posting a very important requirement for the PC version 
 of this game.... gamepad required. No kidding.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mojojnp
Rating: 1.6
Date: Jun 16, 2007 11:33 pm PT
Review:  Capcom should be ashamed. This is the worst port I have ever seen. Really would consider not buying 
 a capcom game even if I wanted because of the poor Porting job. Astonishingly bad. BURN BURN BURN. 
 Sound is the only thing that is good. Read the reviews. Cant change settings. Yeah that would be 
 nice. Never saw anything of this sort EVER. I have always loved the idea of Resident Evil games. 
 The Action and the Puzzles. Some where terribly hard yet exciting. JUST DONT BUY THIS ONE. On PC 
 anyway.
  This is my first review. I usually never do this. But I had to. The game is getting an 8.1 rating 
 and shouldnt. I believe people are rating it from other consoles or something is messed up. NO 
 WAY. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dav4488
Rating: 6.2
Date: Jun 15, 2007 3:34 am PT
Review:  The game is simply great, but there's one missing point:
  The lack of control is making this game a **** At the beginning you have to press all of the buttons 
 to see witch control controls what!! And for the joystick options, that's not for the PC, a PC 
 uses a mouse and so it have to be a combination between a mouse and a keyboard.
  
  The graphic is better with the patch, but we aren't still here... It's all sharped out, we know 
 that Capcom is for first place for console gaming, so it's the best that this game remains on the 
 ps2, for once and forever!
  
  Better the ps2 version definitely XD 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Irate_Hobbit
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 12, 2007 10:27 pm PT
Review:  This game will appear terrible from the moment you start it if you don't know what youre in for. 
 You need a USB gamepad to play it. Besides some quick polishing up you'll barely notice its a port 
 from the PS2 version. They optimized almost nothing. Add to that a 30fps lock. The cut scenes are 
 still in 480 and streched out to whatever resolution you set the game to. They look awful. The 
 laziness in porting this game is a real shame. Ubisoft and Capcom decided to stick a $20 pricetag 
 on it. People who didn't play the original versions and dont know how good it is will be turned 
 off by this but should give it time.
  
  Now for the good, it will take you 12 to 15 hours to finish plus about 6 to 8 more hours of bonus 
 story missions. It has high replay on single player because you get the start over with all the 
 guns you bought during the 1st try. Also, there is a time trial mode for blowing the heads off 
 evern more zombies. As far as the story goes, its very cliche but some how manages to come off 
 smelling like roses. Partly due to the great voices and properly placed music. The gunplay and 
 atmosphere has heavily influenced big games lie Gears of War and upcoming Assassins Creed. Its 
 one of the greatest gun games and shooters basically. There are some flaws in the game like the 
 general clunky movement but that was somewhat intentional I think. It improves the suspense. The 
 best gamecube game, one of the best PS2 games, is not going to win a similiar award on the PC 2 
 years later in this kind of condition. With all these compalints it may seem like a pass. With 
 a high resolution monitor, a gamepad, and only $20 in your pocket, this is the best way to play 
 RE4 right now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: keymaster7
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jun 11, 2007 10:40 am PT
Review:  I was so exited that i got my hands on this game, after i installed it, I'm all hyped up ready 
 to rock 'n roll. so i started playing, i chose normal then the movie/intro starts, I'm very disappointed 
 the movie graphics is bad then i started playing the game. First off, how the heck do I shoot or 
 even raise the weapon? it took me some time to get used to the controls, when i try to shoot its 
 difficult to aim plus its difficult to see the enemy, they merge into the background, you can only 
 see them once they started to move or shout.
  
  This game is quite hard, without a controller, other wise is very fun to play, and you can buy 
 weapons and upgrade them, you'll need to look carefully and listen carefully, sometimes they come 
 from behind and attack you or you cant see them because they; re the same color as the background.
 
  
  The gameplay is good, the graphics is bad, the controls are worse, you need a controller the play 
 this game, this game is more for a console than PC. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: liffaman
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jun 8, 2007 1:29 pm PT
Review:  it looks like the creators took this game... ho.. sorry this masterpiece!
  and just tried to make it work on the pc.
  when i played i felt like i'm trying some baggy trial 
 version PS2 emulator...
  i mean it felt like they just could'nt make this work right with all the great graphics features 
 we've seen on other platforms
  and just throw them one by one until the game started to work on the pc!
  without trying to change 
 things for us without even changing the in game manuals to feat the keyboard controls!
  and whats up with the bad quality in game cinematics?
  what a bad codec they used there?? i dont 
 get it.. ( i could make it better)
  the realtime openGL looked better then the rendered cinematics only because of the quality of this 
 movies!
  and.. for the most disappointing thing .. well for me!
  why there is no mouse control?? i mean its so hard to shoot right on the target when you have only 
 left right up down...
  i mean im a quite fast learning guy.. and im a good gamer
  if there was a mouse control it could fix the bad control in the game even though the game still 
 looks bad and just .. not right! that's a shame!
  i waited for so long for the pc release only to find out its not the same game!
  
  i gave 8 
 for the graphics only because i think the models, textures and characters design is amazing! even 
 though the engine is quit wrong! and there is so much special effects missing! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tarbandu
Rating: 1.9
Date: Jun 5, 2007 3:19 pm PT
Review:  Save yourself $20 and avoid buying this game. Even by the standards of console ports its a real 
 turkey. Ubisoft / Capcom obviously put out as little effort as possible to tailor the game for 
 a PC, and as a result its unplayable unless you have a gamepad. Throw in a camera point-of-view 
 that is like something from the PS1 era, clumsy inventory and aiming systems, and a checkpoint-style 
 Save game approach, and youve got major frustration. I even have second thoughts about using the 
 DVD-ROM as a coaster.
  
  Its hard not to come away from the game with the feeling that, as one of a very few mature action 
 games for the kiddie-console Gamecube, it got a lot of overly hyped praise from the Nintendo fanboys. 
 Lets face it, if playing Mario wasnt your thing, the Gamecube had slim pickings compared to the 
 Xbox and PS2, so RE4 got a lot of happy press it really doesnt deserve.
  
  With Capcoms Dead Rising for the Xbox 360 also coming in as a mediocre effort (no matter how 
 highly hyped by the buy enough advertising and well give your game a great score ! crews at 
 OXM and EGM) theres not much zombie gamers can do except continue to wait for Black Widow Games 
 to finish development of They Hunger: Source and give the PC gamer world what they so desperately 
 need: a good survival horror game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: knux15
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 5, 2007 12:59 am PT
Review:  My full Review on RE4 main game, this does not include my experience with bonus content as I am 
 not done yet.
  
  I must say when I got Resident Evil 4 into my computer and tried playing for the first time the 
 controls just blew me away. This game's biggest flaw is that it is a port directly from the XBOX 
 360 which hits PC users big time. If you plan to buy this game, plan on spitting out $30 - $90 
 on a good controller as that is the only sane way to play the game. A good 360 port controller 
 should do the best in the game but I played on a classic D-Pad with SNES type button design and 
 two L's and R's. Note though, that is the bare minimal controller I would play this game with though.
 
  
  Controls aside, the game places you into the role of Leon, and you have to locate and return the 
 president's daughter. Sounds pretty easy and it looks easy enough in the beginning, until you comes 
 to a mans door to find out some information and are attacked. Suddenly your drivers are killed 
 and the most Zombie-like Non-Zombies, start to pop out of no where as you start to fight your way 
 to find Ashley.
  
  They use a great engine with a rarely used, over-the-shoulder camera, which is usually in the perfect 
 place at the perfect time. You do have to use a cross-hair aiming interface for shooting, which 
 might kill some PC regs until they get used to it. The physics aren't the best, as you can see 
 some just plain silly animations where an enemy will fly out, hit a wall and still go face up on 
 the ground. The game does use the same technology as all the Die Hard games with, Hit L1 and R1 
 not or Hit B1 to climb which, not to spoil it has a nice demonstration of how to use that technology 
 with live render and FMV's.
  
  A lot of people have wondered if it is scary and I must say that it is for the first hour. After 
 that, you may have a few places where you are surprised which does happen in the game A LOT. The 
 learning curve on this game was about 2 hours as it took a long time to set up my game pad and 
 figure out exactly how to do what since there is no learning system or first time players guide, 
 in game. The information is in the manual but who reads that crap?
  
  Visually it is about a year behind its time but the interactive FMV's pick up on the visuals. At 
 times you really do feel like you are part of a horror movie. The game is extremely fast paced, 
 only took me 15 hours to beat which for a console port, is about right. Now for the story aspect 
 of my rating. I almost never give 10's unless the story is just totally in depth and kicks ass 
 and I have to say this game has done exactly that! Whether you are a long time fan or a newbie 
 just getting into the series, it will let you in with hints of the series history. It actually 
 messes with your emotions with characters you have met earlier or with characters you may have 
 known for 5 mins in the game. It will make you happy at one minute and pissed the next that your 
 best friend died. (That line is not cannon) Also, when you get to play with a second person, you 
 must keep that person safe at all times and must realize that they are not as fit as you and may 
 have to be caught from a drop you just made or will have you piggy back ride your shoulders to 
 get over a ledge.
  
  The game itself is a lot like other action horrors, where you just go and kick undead ass, or at 
 least what is left of their ass. But it does also have a nice variety of puzzles whether it is 
 trying to line lights up in a certain way, or to set a dial in the order of family members dead 
 in a graveyard. It seems that they found the perfect balance and of course the glorious boss battles 
 are held with multiple ways to win, where you might want to use brute force to beat the baddie 
 to a bloody pulp or figure out how to make a piece of machinery do it for you.
  
  The game is very linear and most puzzles are fixed with only one solution. There are a few places 
 in the game that you can choose one path over another and fight different baddies but mostly are 
 the exact same thing in the end. Overall I would be interested to play the game once more but after 
 that I would definitely not look at it for at least a year. Do I think they should port the next 
 game to PC?
  
  Absolutely, and I personally wouldn't change a thing to it, I liked the control scheme, with a 
 game pad and the story was just amazing. The graphics need to catch up big time but other than 
 that it is one Amazing Game.
  
  Overall Score: 9.1 David M. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: match86
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 4, 2007 3:17 pm PT
Review:  This won't be long. If you had pleasure to try the Gamecube or PS2 version you will be surprised 
 what happened with re4 on PC. Graphics looks awful even patched to newest version, textures and 
 environment that really impressed me on Gamecube are in low resolution without anti-aliasing or 
 anything that graphics cards offer nowadays.
  
  Sound still keeps the level, so does the gameplay which is awesome! Even though there is no mouse 
 support, killing hostile villagers is fun. Quick time events that require pushing certain buttons 
 might be quite annoying in the beginning but with little experience they aren't SO difficult. Well 
 I think you should give it a try. Although some lazy bastards wanted to get some money without 
 much effort it doesn't mean they ruined everything. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wesker16
Rating: 2.9
Date: Jun 3, 2007 7:14 am PT
Review:  Allright all i know about this game is bad because the game has bad controls and its nothing compare 
 to the GC or the PS2 Versions. The graphics are not right or the gameplay. Guys if i were you, 
 i would not spend my money on this game at best buy or gamestop. Its Not Right Its Just not. But 
 This Is Something Different, Resident Evil 4 for the GameCube is, without doubt, one of the finest 
 games ever made and its existence alone made purchasing a GameCube worthwhile. The PlayStation 
 2 version lacked some of the visual brilliance of the GameCube original, but the core game remained 
 intact and was in many ways improved upon by the addition of the Ada mini-campaign. Two years after 
 UK gamers first got their hands on the game it's time for the PC hardcore to get their turn. - 
 Please Dont Get This Game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Silph01
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 3, 2007 3:19 am PT
Review:  I sold like five games, and the credit I got allowed me to buy this, at first I was sceptical, 
 but after a while I figured that if I hadn't bought it, it would have been the greatest mistake 
 of my life (or at least this year) .
  
  Welcome to Resident Evil, a series which personally I have long resented ever since I played the 
 third one, hence the scepticism.
  In my eyes the game was about running around in very small areas, killing countless zombies and 
 (my worst part) combining a bunch of stuff. That was all in my mind though, very weird.
  
  Welcome to Resident Evil. Youre one person who has to fight off a huge bunch of zombies and accomplish 
 your mission. Who should we thank first? Praise Capcom, praise Ubisoft, and most of all, praise 
 Umbrella. Without them none of this would have happened.
  
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  
  Now welcome to Resident Evil 4. Your mission finds you controlling the protagonist Leon in a backwards 
 rural European village. Like a na&iuml; ve idiot you ask a local if hes seen the presidents daughter 
  the one who youre supposed to rescue. He just mumbles something in uh, Spanish I think would 
 have been cooler if it was Italian anyways then he turns around. You walk away and he takes an 
 axe and tried to kill you. You dodge, and kill him in return. Congrats, youve killed your first 
 zombie.
  
  The police who escorted you drove themselves into a ravine, so youre on your own (finally) . You 
 meet a dog and then see some weird string between two trees. As curious as human nature is, you 
 blindly walk into the trees, and presto, its your first game over. Luckily you can continue 
 without having to reload. That really helps when your save point (the typewriter. Always the typewriter) 
 is right at the beginning of the chapter and youre at the end. Sadly though, everything gets reset 
 and you then have to retrieve all the items once gained, but now lost. I guess playing the game 
 on any other platform, or with a PC controller, would be better, due to the disappointing lack 
 of mouse support. There are many instances in the game where you have to hit two buttons at the 
 same time in order to avoid being killed in one go. First of all, if you copied the game from a 
 friend and do not have the rulebook, youre in for one hard time because the keys on the keyboard 
 are very strange and on the screen it only shows the keys that would be on the controller to press, 
 just like Devil May Crys port. Once you get the hang of the keys, you should be good to go, just 
 know you need really good reflexes in this game.
  
  The actual plot of the game is mostly picking on America (as everyone does) for being the pigs 
 that control the world, retort with violence and basically have no moral value. I dont really 
 believe that, but this backward European village and everyone in it have the same goal. Leave Bush 
 alone, for the love of God. The main antagonist, Saddler, frequently makes chirps of how America 
 is poisoning the world and that Hollywood clich&eacute; s are what all Americans think of and that 
 their reality is impeccable yet false. To leave all spoilers out of this, you can figure out the 
 plot yourself as you go along. Have fun.
  
  Aside from all U. S bashing, you can get very hooked on this game. Blowing heads off zombies never 
 gets old, but now there are parasites that control the body even if the head is blown off. This 
 just makes the game more intense and is totally worth it. The levels themselves are set out well, 
 and the missions and different section you explore add to the interest of the game. There was not 
 one part of the game I thought was boring. Although, with the intense amount of action, somewhat 
 larger areas and an overall brighter atmosphere than that of other horror games, the actual shock 
 level is not that great, but the action makes up for it. So dont worry if you play the game at 
 12 at night with no lights on, you wont get that scared in the game unless youre very young 
 while playing it. There are a few places where your adrenalin raises because you would obviously 
 be low on health and running away from fast creatures in a very narrow maze of pathways.
  
  Also, the variety of things to do in the game are pretty good, as you get a shooting range just 
 for fun, and you also get to jet-ski and kill giant fish on a speedboat. Theres also a bunch of 
 treasure to find. When you do rescue Ashley, I just wish she could be more helpful, its like 
 you dont need to be a rocket scientist to hold a gun. Just dont use the yellow herbs on her 
 its such a waste.
  
  If it werent for lousy keyboard control and the fact that Leon was trained by the highest forces 
 in the U. S. government but he still shakes like Claire running from Sylar, the gameplay would get 
 a 10. A 9 is still high, and it definitely deserves it due to the replay value of this game, above 
 everything, with four new missions And the luxury of reloading your old save to play through the 
 game again with new weapons to buy. This is a definite A+ game in my books.
  
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  GRAPHICS:
  
  
  Nothing much to complain about here. The graphics are nice and sharp, and the loading time for 
 the movies is nice and quick. There are some instances where you find yourself in what I call them 
 RAM rooms, because of the intense graphics, like fire, and lava and everything, everything is so 
 slow you want to shoot yourself to end it all. Its still fun, though, and the graphics do give 
 the game a whole new angle. -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  SOUND:
  
  Yeah! The best is probably the save room sound, but the random stuff the zombies say can make you 
 piss with laughter if youre there at the right time. I love zombies who just do that to make fun 
 of them. And then you get to blow their brains out. Its like a two-in-one. The background music 
 during some instances is very subtle, which is nice, because you dont need overwhelming music 
 in a horror survival just some nice ambient stuff to get the adrenalin pumping. It can also give 
 you a nice little scare when youre fighting a bunch of zombies and then you can hear one approaching 
 you from the behind. Its like OMG WTF DO I DO?!?!?!?!
  
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  VALUE:
  
  What a game! Its so worth buying. Most games these days are just so short with absolutely no replay 
 value, but then this game comes along, tons of replay stuff when youre bored, and an overall painkiller 
 of a long game, but the action-intensity and immense enjoyment, with a pinch of guilty pleasure, 
 all add to the cherishment of every second that you play this game. It just makes you wonder how 
 one single person can go through all of this. And as an added bonus, Ashleys hot and has a short 
 skirt =D.
  
  So there you have it. I no longer hate Resident evil, and think its the best game Ive ever played 
  not the scariest, but definitely the best. If have to forgive yourself for anything, dont do 
 it for this. Sell all the crap games you HAVE to buy. Its worth it!
  
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Thanks for Reading
  ~Silph 
::::::

::::::
UserName: franky111
Rating: 3.6
Date: Jun 2, 2007 2:35 pm PT
Review:  I just got the US version which comes prepatched, I played it for about 5 minutes, and the framrate 
 is HORRIBLE.... I checked the system requirements and my comp had surpassed them. No gamepad is 
 going to improve this lazy piece of crap, unless they make a patch to fix this, this is going to 
 go down as the most broken port in history. I just cant believe that I got THIS, this isnt even 
 worth $20. Its worth about $15, if that much.. Keyboard control scheme is horrible too! Also NO 
 MOUSE SUPPORT! How the heck Im I supposed to play with without a mouse or game pad? aim with the 
 keyboard? Yeah.. Right. Capcom, you disappoint me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: praju7
Rating: 7.9
Date: May 31, 2007 5:59 am PT
Review:  k guys this is a game worth plying if u are a fan of the ps2 based re4... the gamply on pc is only 
 bad isue. so a 9.6/10.. once you get through first few levels you can stop urself from seein whats 
 next.. and it takes around17-18 hours for a gamer.. and 23-25 hrs for a normal gamer
  The controls were another thing. I whipped out my logitech game controller, because if I didn't 
 use that, I would have had to use the keyboard... I'd rather stab my hands than try to beat the 
 game with playing it using only the keyboard. If you have a USB controller, then the game will 
 feel just like the console version. So... I recommend you buy one if you're gonna get this game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blue_Chaos7
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 29, 2007 6:04 pm PT
Review:  I am going to be completely un-biased and say that Resident Evil 4 for the PC is a genually outstanding 
 game it has all of the normal cliches of other titles but it somehow makes it fresh again which 
 is a feat all in its own. Graphically it stacks up to the other versions of the game although I 
 will have to give my regards to the Gamecube version of the game for it being the most graphically 
 impressive. Another reason RE4 for the PC excels is that the game comes with all of the perks of 
 the PS2 version so even if you have finished the single player campaign you can either head back 
 in on a higher difficulty or try out Separate Ways with Ada Wong. The only drawbacks of this version 
 is the lack of any mouse controls and the need to own a gamepad to fully experience this game. 
 But with a $20 price tag its well worth the price and the way I see it we shouldn't be bashing 
 this game we should be bashing the company that ported it Ubisoft.
  
  Thats why there will be two scores in this review
  
  I give Ubisoft a 2/10 and
  I give Resident 
 Evil 4 a 9.4/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bikeaholic
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 29, 2007 11:43 am PT
Review:  I usually do not write reviews but this game is getting too many low scores for as GREAT as it 
 is. I have played every Resident Evil game since Playstation 1 and this game is the BEST Resident 
 Evil game to ever come to the PC by far. You have to use a gamepad to play it right. First Person 
 Shooter fans get over it. It is RESIDENT EVIL. If you don't have a gamepad for the PC than you 
 are not a very hardcore PC gamer. I have finished the game twice (so far) with my logitech wireless 
 Rumblepad. Yes, I have played the gamecube and ps2 versions and this version beats them in my opinion. 
 The in game graphics are simply way better than the cube or PS2. I run the game with everything 
 at maximum. I have my computer hooked up to a 42 inch high def lcd. It is like playing the game 
 on a 360 or PS3. The in game engine is so much higher def and better that the ps2 or gamecube the 
 cut scenes look low res (Taken from ps2) . The game plays smoothly and is true to the original source 
 material and in many ways better. Having played all 3 versions of the game ,I would give this one 
 the highest score. This game is a masterpiece of game design and hold up well on the PC. I have 
 well over 100 hours in the game and I am still playing it. For 19.99 thats one hell of a bargain. 
 Unlockable and extras alone keep me playing. I love all the extras and movie watching mode. I can 
 wait to have every single aspect of the game unlocked. Now on to the few flaws I have found with 
 the game. To exit the game you have to press Alt key and F4. Very user unfriendly. The cutscenes 
 should have been redone to match the higher def engine the actual game is running. It is like going 
 from DVD to VHS when it swaps into a cut scene. Cut scenes and acting are stellar though ,for a 
 videogame. The gamepad control I actually like. Keyboard control is horrible of course. However 
 I wish all the setup options were available once the game had launched. Higher resolutions would 
 have also been nice. However, for the low budget price for this game, it is all forgivable. Until 
 the wii version is out this is the simply the best version of the game. If you like survival horror 
 or Resident Evil this simply a MUST BUY game. Top rating. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cp_114
Rating: 7
Date: May 28, 2007 11:52 pm PT
Review:  This game has some good qualities, but not nearly enough to make it a great game. Being that it's 
 a console port doesn't bother so much, as long as it's a fun game. However, this game could have 
 used a little more in the fun department. What was so good about Resident Evil 2 was the spooky 
 feeling that it projected as you explore the police station. This game seems to missing that same 
 feeling, and the lack of scary music might be some of the reason. Also, it seems to be less puzzle 
 oriented. I have played RE4 for 5 hours and I only had to solve 2 puzzles, which in my opinion 
 makes the game less challenging and less fun. It still fun to shoot these zombie like people, but 
 honestly I would have liked to have seen more gore in a game like this. The gun shots splatter 
 a little blood, but no mark is left on the zombie what so ever. One really cool thing about the 
 shooting these infected people is the fact that you can shoot them in the legs as they run toward 
 you, the zombies will fall to the ground in very natural looking way, and gives the player a chance 
 to use the knife. Another problem I have with this game is the behind the shoulder view. It's irritating, 
 I just want the camera to back up and make it a true 3rd person view. To sum it up, this is a very 
 average game thats fun for a while, but because of the lack of puzzles, and the less than scary 
 atmosphere it gets old pretty quick. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lord_Foortwenti
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 27, 2007 11:00 am PT
Review:  I was a little hesitant about picking this up b/c of all the bad user reviews I had read about 
 how bad of a port this is, or how horrible the default control scheme is (no mouse support, keyboard 
 or game-pad only) etc etc. But in the end, I did pick it up, and I am glad that I did.
  
  First off, they could have done a MUCH better job porting it over to the PC. Basically all they 
 did, graphics wise, was stretch things out to support higher resolutions. Initally, in the Euro 
 and Asian PC versions, they had even disabled lighting and shader effects so they game looked even 
 worse but they patched this stuff in later and included it in the US package so it looks somewhat 
 decent. Yeah, the edges are jagged and you can tell the game wasn't intended for higher resolutions, 
 but I've seen much worse.
  
  The only other complaint to be leveled is the lack of mouse support. The reason I think they didn't 
 include mouse support was b/c it would levy an unfair advantage and the game would be too easy 
 using a mouse to aim. At least, I hope that's why they didn't include mouse support but I think 
 the FAR more likely reason is that they were just lazy. When I first brought this game home I was 
 aware that there was no mouse support, which ticked me off a bit, but I still gave the default 
 keyboard control scheme a shot..... and it was AWFUL. I was forced to go out and buy a game-pad. 
 And I am very glad I did. Now, I am a PC gamer through and through, and I didn't even own a game-pad, 
 but this game is soooo good that it warranted buying one. The experience was 100x better w/ a pad.
 
  
  So, in conclusion.....
  
  While the port job seems to have been half-assed, the game itself is great, and shouldn't be missed 
 AS LONG AS YOU HAVE A GAME-PAD. Really, don't deprive yourself of the truly excellent gameplay 
 in this game b/c you're too stubborn to use a game-pad on a PC.
  
  Resident Evil 4 deserved all the praise it got. One of the best games ever 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pama29
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 27, 2007 5:11 am PT
Review:  just got resident evil 4 on pc........ the games just brilliant ..... the gameplays awesome....... the 
 in the face action of all those zombie like creatures is fantastic yet horrifying........ the story 
 is also well written..... and has many surprises..... it has a good base of characters and monsters 
 ...... the boss fights are simply amazing....... you may remeber one of them for a long time..... but 
 the main lag here is the graphics........ if you dont have the patch the graphics just suck.... all 
 in all a very nice game.... beware this game is not for the faint of heart or sick people.... also 
 its very cheap compared to other titles.... a must buy for 19 dollars..... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dj_redstar
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 27, 2007 2:52 am PT
Review:  After reading the near universal slating of this PC version I held off from buying it until the 
 patch was released and I didn't even contemplate trying to play it without a PS2 pad.
  Saying that, the patch seriously improves the overall look of the game and brings it closer to 
 the greatness of the original console versions. It's still a cracking game even though a few gripes 
 remain like the Press 1+3 or 5+5 dodge moves that take my brain far too long to calculate the first 
 time as I count the triangle, circle, X etc. buttons to work out what to press.
  It a departure from the first Resident Evil games but a highly successful one as far as I'm concerned. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reaverx13
Rating: 5.8
Date: May 24, 2007 7:14 pm PT
Review:  Resident Evil brings many good memories of the game. Resident Evil 4 was first made for the Gamecube 
 and might I say that game was the sh*t. It had badass graphics, cut scenes, and music. Then they 
 released Resident Evil 4 again for the ps2. The game was still good it retained the good gameplay 
 ,but some of the graphics were dumb down and the cutscenes were not in real-time no more ,but the 
 inclusion of a few new weapons and another story mode staring Ada Wong it was a good game for the 
 ps2, So I thought that the pc version of the game would probably be in par with the Gamecube version 
 graphics with the ps2 exclusive items. I was wrong it seems for some reason it the graphics are 
 don't even look the gamecube hell it doesn't even look like ps2 graphics. If they were trying to 
 make it for low-end pcs to be able to play the game that might have been alright ,but don't just 
 release a low-rez version of a game to everyone. They had alot of time making this game for the 
 pc the graphics should have been better than they are, It seems some people were being lazy on 
 this port. What else can go wrong? Well the videos look more crappier than the ps2 version it seems 
 that they just reused the ps2 cutscenes ,but in a lower quality. Why did they do this? I have no 
 idea a pc can handle alot there should have been no reason for that they could have at least done 
 it in real-time. Also there is no support for the mouse which sucks. It would have been good to 
 at lease be able to play with a mouse ,but they didn't even include that either. If your going 
 to play this game I recommend you to have a controller a xbox 360 controller is best to play this 
 game. Ok other than the stuff I said this game is good to play for the gameplay it kept intact. 
 For $20 dollars its kind of a good deal ,but the graphics might turn some people away from it. 
 I recommend if you want the best Resident Evil 4 experience buy the gamecube version or the ps2 
 version or wait for the new version that is coming out for the Wii. Hopefully the Wii version will 
 retain the gamecube graphics while with the ps2 exclusives. This port should have been better. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jayzinator
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 24, 2007 1:21 pm PT
Review:  all in all i think this is a great game why y may ask? well i havent played the ps2 or gamecube 
 versions so this was the first version ive played. the gameplay is very simple with everything 
 being press and play. Even though you require a gamepad to enjoy the game at its full potential 
 i didnt find a problem with that as im a serious pc gamer and have always had one. The graphics 
 are a bit of a letdown for such a great game for pc standards although you can download a patch 
 off the net that slightly enhances the lighting effects and overall visual performance. As for 
 the sound well its the typical resident evil, creaking, wind whooshing and moaning not forgetting 
 the cries and growls of the creatures in the game id say altogether the sound is very effective. 
 For a few pounds/dollars this game could be yours... if your person that enjoys strategy games 
 and solving puzzles and with that the mixed added taste of mindless shooting and explosions then 
 there shouldnt be a problem 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HellsScythe
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 24, 2007 8:50 am PT
Review:  Resident Evil 4, despite the ever-so-popular condemnation of the game due to the port's lazy development, 
 still retains it's fun factor. It's still an amazing game if you feel like fiddling with settings 
 and doing some modifications.
  
  Resident Evil 4s gameplay is basically the same as the Playstation 2s - if you have a gamepad. 
 The controls for the keyboard are not my cup of tea, I couldn't stand using the keyboard for it. 
 There is a file you can download called MouseAim which enables the mouse for aiming and other uses, 
 but that isn't what I'm here to write about. Control issues aside, once you find yourself immersed 
 from your first step into the Village, you won't really want to put the game down. From your first 
 encounter in the Village you'll realize that this isn't a typical Resident Evil game, it has much 
 more of an action feel to it; but don't take that as a bad thing, it's just a 'different' approach. 
 The graphics of Resident Evil are decent at best after the patch. You can make the game look much 
 spookier and alot better by simply adjusting the Brightness/Contrast of your monitor, considering 
 the port doesn't have really any video options apart from resolution.
  
  Resident Evil 4s sound is quite good, but there are times when you get sick of villagers screaming, 
 which is what you hear most for the better half of the game. There's not much to say about the 
 sound of the game except that it adds to the depth of the game by a lot. My suggestion is to have 
 a headset with silence in the room, but have the volume up as loud as your ears can take it. It's 
 sure to make you jump every once in a while.
  
  All in all this is a great game and worth the money, but I would gladly pay a few dollars more 
 for the port to be done well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: billyboy800
Rating: 5.7
Date: May 23, 2007 1:33 pm PT
Review:  Ah, I still remember the days back when I killed ten enemies at the same time with my good ol' 
 shotgun in RE4... It's been roughly two years, and this new port makes me wonder where all the perfection 
 went. Resident Evil 4 for the PC is a terrible and lazily made port; I expected more when this 
 game had two years of development time.
  
  The graphics look like something the Dreamcast threw up. Seriously, there are no shaders or lighting 
 effects at all. When I first installed this game and began playing it, I was beginning to think 
 my eyes were becoming as unreliable as one-ply toilet paper. Ubisoft should've at least taken advantage 
 of what the PC had to offer while developing this game.
  
  The originally fun and addictive gameplay is completely ruined by the terrible controls. You control 
 Leon with the W A S D keys, just like in any FPS, the inventory with I, the map with M, you run 
 with left ctrl, you pull out your knife with left shift, and do actions with Enter. Oh, and did 
 I mention that THERE WAS NO MOUSE CONTROL?! The almost completely defeats the purpose of porting 
 it to the PC.
  
  Luckily, the sound has been practically preserved from the GameCube and PlayStation 2 versions, 
 so that's gotta count, right?
  
  The value is also agreeable; it's only 19.99.
  
  Overall, if you have the original GCN or PS2 versions, DON'T WASTE YOUR MONEY ON THIS FLAWED PORT! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jugulator62
Rating: 4.6
Date: May 23, 2007 5:43 am PT
Review:  I am a PC gamer to the core, but I can see no reason to play such a grossly diminished version of 
 this incredible game. For the price of a used Gamecube and used copy of RE4, you can enjoy this game 
 as it was meant to be ( And no, I'm not referring to the PS2 version.) All the potential this game 
 had being ported to PC has been comepletely wasted. RE4 could have been retooled and graphically 
 enhanced specifically for the PC much like Halo2 for Vista. But in the end Capcom just wanted to 
 make a buck and take a crap on one of there best titles to date. Play this on a Gamecube, the newer 
 copies have all the PS2 goodies and unlockables so there is no reason to play it on another platform. 
 You have been warned! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: masaville
Rating: 1.9
Date: May 22, 2007 9:16 am PT
Review:  This is a perfect example of a lazy developer porting what could be considered a great console 
 game and turning it into absolute garbage. I haven't seen graphics that look this bad since the 
 80s. It was painful to look at, so much so that I couldn't get through the first hour of it without 
 uninstalling it and throwing it in the trash can. Simply put, this game looks 'nasty'. It's downright 
 ugly.
  
  On top of that, the game is entirely console control driven. A PC game where you can't even use 
 the mouse? Are you kidding me? The developer didn't lift a finger to port this to the PC and it 
 shows.
  
  Downright ugly. Brutal controls. Don't waste your money. It'll be $9.95 in a bargain bin within 
 two or three months, which is probably still too expensive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mmscumpelu
Rating: 9
Date: May 19, 2007 10:59 am PT
Review:  Now i usually don't write many reviews but, i'm pissed off because some of you say that the translation 
 of resident evil 4 to PC is horrible, well i don't know about you but i finnished the game easely 
 on PC al most too easely and the controls didn't botherd me at all, now doesn't it make you all 
 wonder why i could do this and some of you complain that you can't even control the character, 
 i don't know maybe it's something about you're IQ ... Oh yeah there are some cutscenes in the game 
 where you need to press some buttons to evade etc etc well how was it that i know exactly what 
 buttons to press and others complain that they tried several combinations and didn't work and then 
 they got nervous and wrote a stupid review how RESIDENT EVIL 4 for PC is bad, THose guys are ....... 
 you know .... if any of you is interested how i finnished the game si easely contact me .leave 
 me an email mmscumpelu@yahoo. com
  THE GAME is AMAZING GREAT GRAPHICS GREAT GAMEPLAY GREAT SOUND evrything is great i enjoyed this 
 game a lot, and i repeat i finnished it no problem on the PC 
::::::

::::::
UserName: indzman
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 18, 2007 6:21 pm PT
Review:  Please don't compare Resident Evil 4 for P. C with PS 2 and GC or upcoming Wii version . RE 4 for 
 P. C is unique in its own rights . Make sure you patch RE 4 to enhance fine graphics / visuals and 
 gameplay. Yes , a gamepad or controller is neccessary to enjoy the game best as its keyboard controls 
 may seem tough to master as the game is ported thus original console controls remain in the game 
 .RE 4 for P. C has no mouse support .Still , you can enjoy this game fine with a controller .The 
 game does not have very high requirements to run , so anyone passing minimum requirements can enjoy 
 the game fine.
  Resident Evil 4 for P. C has decent graphics / visuals . Soundquality is quite good. AI and voiceacting 
 is excellent .Characters memorable .Resident Evil 4 has amazing cutscenes too. Storyline rocks .
 
  The game has style , perfect atmosphere matching with its gripping storyline and superb action 
 .All in all a highly entertaining action game .You will get many puzzles in the game to progress 
 through missions .The Extra content missions ( They get unlocked after you complete the game in 
 any difficulty) are very much fun and you get newer and cool weapons to toy with in the main game 
 once you complete them successfully .If you complete the game on Easy / Normal or Proffessional 
 difficulty you get to unlock some more new cooler weapons again . Plus you get costumes to choose 
 for main characters in the game . In the game you have to search for pstas (gold coins) and hidden 
 treasures to buy and sell weapons from merchants .The weapons in the game are all awesome . The 
 environments are rather creepy at times .The quick survival button mashing can seem annoying but 
 it ehances challenge and fun. The game is really tough to beat , and the boss fights are really 
 tough too ,but once you complete the game you feel very overjoyed .
  The story is about U. S presidents daughter Ashley Graham being kidnapped by a mysterious cultists 
 group somewhere in Europe for some sinister reason. Now Secret Agent Leon S Kenneddy has to trace 
 out ashley and bring her back safely and also has to find out the true motives behind her kidnapping. But 
 the rescue mission is not as easy as it seems. Leon has to deal with various kinds of deadly foes 
 , sinister bosses , dangerous traps ,mind boggling puzzles throughout his mission to progress .Leon 
 also gets to confront his past nightmare buddy the 'Hunk' . Ada a old freind of leon but on a different 
 mission is out there in the wilderness too working for her boss Albert Wesker ,but protecting Leon 
 whenever neccessary .Louis a mysterious spanish is there to aid leon in his mission against cult 
 leader Saddler . All this leads to a final superb showdown .
  I recommend RE 4 for P. C to every P. C action lovers .Please don't miss this fantastic game if you've 
 missed the game on console or don't own a PS 2 , GC or Wii . Its a great replayable game.
  I hope my review suggessts well . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nappyrts3
Rating: 4
Date: May 18, 2007 1:03 pm PT
Review:  This is perhaps the worst console to pc port i've ever seen. don't waste your money on this, people. 
 The controls are horrendous and not very customizable. You can't customize the graphics at all 
 except for resolution and the frame rate is capped at 30FPS. It's even confusing just to exit the 
 game. Terrible job, developers. It has some potential if they would release a patch including some 
 more customization options and mouse support. Until then it's a broken piece of crap. Stick to 
 the ps2 version. Maybe the Wii version will prove more interesting. The lack of mouse support in 
 the pc version is definitely one of the biggest flaws though. I was really looking forward to playing 
 with a keyboard AND mouse. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tigrems
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 16, 2007 10:07 am PT
Review:  before thinking in buying this, first buy a gamepad, Identical to the ps2. remember this is a ps2 
 port, it has downgraded graphics from original, but in higher resolution its better than the ps2 
 no doubt, also locked fps (30) . the sound is not as sharp as the gamecubes but is ok. you can play 
 surround sound with 5.1 speakers. this game is atmospheric. I still think if they only, added the 
 GCN Graphics &amp; Sound + PS2 Extras. I Would rate it perfect 10.
  This is a Lazy port, not taking full advantages of todays Hardwares. but as I said this is still 
 a Great Game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kemar7856
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 16, 2007 6:33 am PT
Review:  Yay resident evil for PC.... ummm what!
  
  well thats gonna be your responce when you play this game the game is an exact port from the GC 
 no added areas or better graphics. The Game is great the only thing is the CONTROLS!!!!! I have 
 no idea what capcom was thinking but this game has no mouse support and the menus are bad just 
 like the GC when it should have ts own menu this cleary was; nt a proper port.
  Stay clear of this port unless you have a gaming controller.
  
  On the bright side you can 
 get a mouse patch for your pc if you dont have a controller from there on I would say the controls 
 will grow on you.
  
  Its still a good game don't get me wrong but without a controller or mouse its almost impossable 
 to play also watch out for the dougeing parts when tapping the buttions it can be alittle hard 
 for people using a keyboard. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Joey_18
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 15, 2007 5:29 am PT
Review:  This game is a very good game. It is one of my greatest game that i can ever get and to play. I 
 have all the collection of Resident Evil games. And i'm still collecting more Resident Evil games 
 and still trying to get resident evil 5 for the Playstation 3 system. Still I say Resident Evil 
 4 is the best game out there. Why? Because it have a excellent aiming static and a new way you 
 can react to the game in many other ways. Also many player of the big fan for resident evil should 
 get this game for their PC ASAP! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Beechbone666
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 23, 2007 5:14 am PT
Review:  To be honest I never played any of the previous installments in Resident Evil series. I wasn't 
 really that much interested in playing those particular games. But there's always the first time 
 for everything and RE4 in it's console versions was so highly praised that I couldn't just let 
 it pass me by. PC port is not what I expected of such grand title, probably everybody knows why. 
 It has it's issues but with patch installed most of the things that were bringing quality of the 
 game down are no more a big deal. Of what I heard this is the first Resident Evil where the main 
 character doesn't fight zombies. Well, that's true, there are no zombies, but there is a bunch 
 of monsters that act exactly like zombies, so I guess there is no real difference. Graphics is 
 still very good, but I especially liked all the sounds. They are very well prepared for the game 
 and fit it perfectly. Voice acting is also a nice thing. What I didn't like about the game is the 
 whole story and rather repetetive gameplay. While dialogues are quite well written, the plot itself 
 is just another  ;) I mentioned about gameplay. It's 
 quite exciting for the first two hours, but after that you've seen all. Nothing's gonna change, 
 you just run through level, stop, kill some monsters, run through level, stop, kill some monsters... 
 Fortunately there are several really entertaining boss fights that keep you awake for the most 
 part. I know it's an action game but I've heard some reviewer's opinions that RE4 is the best survival 
 horror ever made. Rather controversial statements. In my opinion it's nothing near the best, and 
 it's hardly one of the better horror games. Don't get me wrong, I really enjoyed it, but not everything 
 in the game is top-notch like I heard for months. Concluding, RE4 is a good action-oriented horror-themed 
 game with a well earned 18+ rating, but it's a little bit overrated. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: edito24
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 21, 2007 7:18 pm PT
Review:  This is NOW a great game. If I were to write this review a couple weeks ago I would have given 
 this game an overall score of 2. It was that bad! Controls were disabling &amp; the graphics were 
 depressing. This was the worst port from GC, PS2 to PC I have ever seen. Thanks to Ubisoft for 
 the new patch. I guess they heard all the negative comments for the port PC version of RE4 &amp; 
 did not want their reputation to go down with it! In my opinion, the un-patched version is way 
 worse than the PS2 version. No lighting effects, dull textures &amp; bland feel to the whole environment. 
 Yep, it was coffee with no sugar!
  
  The patch: The improved textures, colours, shading &amp; lighting now make this game now playable 
 &amp; enjoyable! I cannot stop playing this game, I even like to let myself get killed every now 
 &amp; then so i can play through the same area in different ways. Coffee with sugar anyone?? yes 
 plz
  
  Even after the patch, there are some improvements that still need to be done. *Needs a better menu 
 system  doesnt feel user friendly. *Simple things like using your mouse to scroll through the 
 menu and inventory
  *patch should include mouse support (I have even heard the mouse aim mod has its problems too) 
 = still not fixed
  *For those who like to use a rumble pad like me would like to actually feel some RUMBLE. No vibration 
 or force feedback support :- (
  *They should add an exit the game option in the menu (Alt+F4 doesnt feel right)
  
  But even 
 if there is a long list of fixes or improvements that need &amp; have been done, the game's undisputed 
 excellence stands out! This is by far the most entertaining game I have played. Non-stop action 
 will keep your hands on the controls ready to make your next move.
  
  An absolute must have! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: omar788786
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 21, 2007 5:03 am PT
Review:  Unpatched the PC version is enormously inferior graphically to its PS2 counterpart.
  However patched, the PC version may be visually superior due to the high-resolution &amp; the restored 
 lighting and shading effects.
  Since this is the PS2 port of the game, compared to the GC version the sound effects &amp; music 
 are of lower quality. For example, if you break a box or a vase what would be loud and clear on 
 the Gamecube will be muffled because of the compression. Apart from what's listed above this is 
 a fully functioning PS2 port of Resident Evil 4 (if Patched) , so far I haven't encountered a single 
 bug or glitch in gameplay which is great because PC games are sometimes usually have glitches in 
 them.
  
  There are few gripes though:
  The menu could have updated to Higher resolution.
  Could have used the Gamecube sound effects 
 instead of the low quality PS2 effects. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Volmez
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 20, 2007 3:05 am PT
Review:  If you heard of Resident Evil 4 on consoles than I can summarize the ups and downs on the PC. First 
 the controls. When I played the game, the controls are tight even without the gamepad. It's a little 
 hard but it's a short learning curve within half an hour. Second the graphics. The graphics is 
 quite superb. It still have the flare of the consoles but it has a little unstable frame rate. 
 Third the sound. None of the sound has been compromised at the least. Despite a goofy but brief 
 dialogue, it still is totally flawless. It's still uncertain whether it has Dolby support. Last 
 the value. It's still high in value having the same contents as the PS2 and Gamecube. Even with 
 little bug crashes it still a blast to get through. When you add it all up, it's little wonder 
 why people enjoy such as Resident fanatics is still buzzed that it's a water down game. If you 
 play through it with strong honesty, then why write a bad review? Anyway enjoy this game for Australia. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ryu_Townshend
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 13, 2007 12:36 pm PT
Review:  If you dont have a ps2 or a GC (and now a Wii) you have to play this game.
  The graphics aren't good but you can wait for the patch or just concentrate on the gameplay wich 
 is fantastic (don like the keyboard? buy a gamepad)
  You have the extras from the ps2 version, this game only lose in graphics.
  It is a bad port 
 but IT IS A PORT... better then nothing Because it's a pc game you can mod it and turn it in a better 
 game.
  You can kill spanish guys like the other versions of the game so go for it and have fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Airreilly
Rating: 3.2
Date: Apr 4, 2007 1:19 pm PT
Review:  Having never owned a GameCube and sold my PS2 before this came out I was excited to hear about 
 the release for the PC. I rushed out, came home with what I thought would be a revolutionary step 
 for the series and was... half right. The PC port is absolutely horrendous, with no lighting/shading 
 and low res textures, no mouse support (a patch exists however) and non in-game cinematics that 
 basically add up to a sloppy cut and paste job from the PC. Even the manual manages to mix up 1 
 &amp; 3 button controller equivalents. Don't even attempt to play with a keyboard. How do I know 
 the console version is better? I bought a second hand Gamecube with a copy of Resi 4 from EBay 
 for the same price that I wasted on the PC version (twenty quid) . I can now join the vast amount 
 of people who hold their heads high and say, 'I was there'. Truly, a masterpiece on either console. 
 Sadly, an insult on the PC. If the developers can't be bothered, why should you? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: meltedmuffin
Rating: 5
Date: Apr 2, 2007 6:15 am PT
Review:  What can be said? On the gamecube the graphics were flawless, the controls made sense, on the PS2 
 it was the same but with added extras, on this...... it's just worse. The graphics are stupidly 
 shoddy compared to what a low level PC can throw out there aren't even any options to tweak the 
 graphics or the controls. Many cutscenes will often take you at least 3 tries mostly resulting 
 in I DON'T KNOW WHAT 1+3 ARE, LEAVE ME ALONE! being screamed at the computer screen. Instead of 
 converting the actual buttons corners have been cut by giving numbers to buttons so that a gamepad 
 and a keyboard can be used, unfortunately the buttons on the game pad and the buttons of the keyboard 
 don't correspond, say button number 1 was inventory on the keyboard it might be any single button 
 at all, making the manual about as useful as single-ply toilet paper. In some cutscenes you are 
 required to hammer a button repeatedly, keyboards aren't made for that, on the gamecube controller 
 you have no qualms about pounding the button into oblivion on a keyboard it feels more fragile 
 you won't press the buttons as fast and you die, simple as. It gets even more annoying when you 
 realise just how the graphics affect the gameplay, sniping (especially in the village area) gets 
 much more difficult because certain types of villagers blend into the background seamlessly. The 
 game does get better though, by about halfway through the island you know the button combinations 
 and you become used to the graphics but you shouldn't have to I remember on the gamecube this was 
 a game I just picked up and started with no trouble at all, the PC version took nearly seven tries 
 just to get past the boulder rolling section, graphics aren't something you should have to get 
 used to . The games only redeeming feature is the sheer replayability and variety of weapons available 
 no one person will play the game the same way my friend chooses fire-rate over power meaning he 
 leans towards the tmp I on the other hand spend a majority of money one upgrading the power rating, 
 once the main game is completed it gives you another two games for free the first about a third 
 the size and the second roughly a sixth the size of the actual game. If you decide to buy this for 
 the PC thinking that it can recapture what you felt when playing the GC version don't, if you plan 
 on buying this game because it looks good I only have one question, what screenshots were you looking 
 at? For a very similar price you could get half-life 2 instead, now that's a game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Smoke0
Rating: 5
Date: Apr 1, 2007 10:26 am PT
Review:  Resident Evil 4 was praised by many gamers when it was released on Gamecube, and Playstation 2. 
 Last February, Capcom announced that Ubisoft was taking 3 of their games to the PC, which included: 
 Onimusha 3, Devil May Cry 3: Special Edition, and Resident Evil 4. Onimusha 3, and Devil May Cry 
 3 was both games that had big problems on the PC, due to complicated controls, and bad graphics, 
 that diden&acute; t deliver what the PC is capable of. One could hope that this won&acute; t be a 
 problem with Resident Evil 4, since the game has been delayed so many times, but unfortunately, 
 nothing has been improved. Instead it falls into the same hole, as Onimusha 3, and Devil May Cry 
 3 did. Since i already have reviewed the Gamecube, and Playstation 2 version, i&acute; m just going 
 to talk about how it does on the PC. If you want a full review, go to my profile, and look under 
 my reviews, to find Resident Evil 4.
  
  The game has some annoying controls. You run around with W, A, S, D (of coruse) , run with Ctrl, and 
 do actions with Enter. You enter the inventory with I, enter your map with M, and give Ashly orders 
 with F. You draw your knife with Left Shift, and gun with Right Shift, and aim with W, A, S, D. The 
 problem with this is that it&acute; s hard to really get that head shot your going for, or hitting 
 small Spinals in the celling, cause the 4 buttons aren&acute; t precise enough, and it will cause 
 you to waste a lot of ammunition. You can&acute; t use the mouse at all, which is very odd. But 
 the most annoying thing about the controls is the Quick-Time Events. The game dosen&acute; t tell 
 you exactly which buttons to hit, instead it shows a number. 1 is Ctrl, 3 is Enter, 5 is Left Shift, 
 6 is Right Shift, and when the analong stick is displayed, it&acute; s the arrows that have to be 
 pressed. The problem is that, it can be hard to press to required buttons. On top of it all, the 
 manual dosen&acute; t explain the controls right. It tells that 1 is where your do the actions, 
 and 3 is run/cancel, in short, it says that 1 is Enter, and 3 is Ctrl, which is very annoying, 
 so unless you read this review, you woulden&acute; t know. The only proper way to play this game 
 is with an controller, which is where the X-Box 360 controller wil do a lot of good, allowing you 
 to play the game right.
  
  When you watch the cut-scenes, you notice that the graphics are pretty, on pair with the Gamecube 
 version, but when you play the game, you&acute; ll be surprised. I have some pictures for you here, 
 so you can see for yourself:
  
  http://www. actiontrip. com/reviews/pics/residentevil41. jpg
  http://www. actiontrip. com/reviews/pics/residentevil42. jpg
 
  http://www. actiontrip. com/reviews/pics/residentevil43. jpg
  http://www. actiontrip. com/reviews/pics/residentevil45. jpg
  http://www. actiontrip. com/reviews/pics/residentevil46. jpg
 
  http://www. actiontrip. com/reviews/pics/residentevil49. jpg
  http://www. actiontrip. com/reviews/pics/residentevil410. jpg
  
  If you look at those pictures, 
 you&acute; ll know what i am talking about. The game is very ugly, and it&acute; s the worst looking 
 game, of the 3 Capcom games making it to the PC. It&acute; s surprising, when you look at how much 
 this game had been delayed. The cut-scenes isen&acute; t converted good enough for the PC either. 
 Some cut-scenes are chop-chop, which hurts the graphics. The sound dosen&acute; t have any problems 
 through. But when it comes to the sound, the same can be said about it, as it has been said on 
 PS2 and GC, which is some bad dialog, and decent voice-acting, but slick sound effects, and nice 
 music. The game does offer pretty much lasting value. The main game alone is 20 hours, then there&acute; s 
 the Seprate Ways which is 3-5 hours long, plus 2 other mini-games, and some unlockable weapons, 
 and costumes. But expect the amout of time it takes to complete the game, to be a bit higher, due 
 to the annoying controls. Overall, Resident Evil 4 on the PC is yet another bad port. The port 
 of Onimusha 3, and Devil May Cry 3 could be accepted, but with Resident Evil 4, it&acute; s hard 
 to do that. Of the 3 Capcom ports, this game has taken most time to develop, but ends up being 
 the worst port of the 3.
  
  The Good: Core game still the same, port of PS2 version.
  
  The Bad: Extremely disappointing graphics, annoying controls, no mouse support, manual has an error 
 in explaning the controls, nothing new. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nico4
Rating: 5.6
Date: Mar 30, 2007 2:25 pm PT
Review:  Resident Evil haven&acute; t had a easy life on the PC. Bad ports, and awful controls, is everything 
 Resident Evil chould deliver on the PC. Now Resident Evil 4 (Game of the Year, in 2005) is out 
 on the PC. Taking that it&acute; s a year since Ubisoft started thier 3 games deal with Capcom, 
 is this the best port Ubisoft has done over the last year?
  
  The story sees Leon S. Kennedy, hero of Resident Evil 2. Umbrella is finished, after the viral 
 outbreak in Raccoon City, an outbreak which turned people into monsters. Now 6 years later, Leon 
 has joined Serect Service, and is sent to Spain, to rescue the president&acute; s daughter (Ashley) , 
 however something&acute; s wrong with the village he&acute; s sent to. People are acting strange, 
 and are attacking Leon. What are they? They ain&acute; t zombies so what are they? Can Leon survive 
 against these new emenys?
  
  Resident Evil has changed. Out goes the zombies, T-Virus, Umbrella, fixed camera and the infamous 
 door scenes. The new emenys (Gernados) are more clever than the zombies, they can climb ladders, 
 throw with axes and are able to flank you. They are also fast and strong. It pays to go after headshot, 
 but later, even if you blow thier head off, they might get stronger, and still live (untill you 
 kill them again, that is) . There&acute; s also quick time events (nicked from Dreamcast classic, 
 Shenmue) , which require you to press a certain botton, so Leon can dodge a Knife, or fight against 
 a super human. There&acute; s also times where you need to repeatly hit a botton, so Leon can run 
 fast, to avoid getting crushed by a bolder. During gameplay, Leon has been giving some fighting 
 moves, and can jump through windows, jump over ledges, and kick doors open. Of course you&acute; ll 
 get to escort Ashley to safety, but her AI is so good. She&acute; ll always walk behind you, and 
 if you need to shoot a emeny comming from behind, she&acute; ll duck. She&acute; ll never be in the 
 way when you want to shoot some body.
  
  The game is about 20-25 hours long. After the main game, there&acute; s some mini-games, a harder 
 difficulty, a bonus costumes and more. So there&acute; s good replay valve.
  
  The PC version, is the weakst of the PS2 &amp; Gamecube version. Graphics are pretty bad, there&acute; s 
 no amosphere or shaders, and it&acute; s so damn light, even at night! Characters dosen&acute; t 
 look that bad though. The cut scenes are nicked from the Gamecube version, so it&acute; s easy to 
 spot the driffence between the GC &amp; PC graphics. It dosen&acute; t stop there, the controls 
 are pretty bad too. You can&acute; t use the mouse, so it&acute; s hard to score head shots, and 
 react to quick time events. Using a controler helps a lot, but the quick time events tell you which 
 bottons to press by numbers, so they are a pain in the ass.
  
  All in all, the PC version of Resident Evil is something you should avoid, if you got access to 
 a GC or PS2. If not, get a Xbox 360 controller, install it on your PC, and play away! It&acute; s 
 a shame to see a really excellent game, ruined by a bad port though... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rockatanski
Rating: 2.7
Date: Mar 27, 2007 5:50 pm PT
Review:  I have been hanging out for this game to come to the PC ever since it got outright game of the 
 year a couple of years ago.
  
  I should not have bothered.
  
  This is such a difficult game to play on the PC, that it is just plain embarresing. Let me say 
 that I have got the graphics and framerates right up to excellent standards and the flow is no 
 problem. The problem is the controls. There is just no point at all to try and play this on the 
 keyboard because it is almost impossible. After all, it is a Gamecube game so this should not pose 
 any surprises. A game controller is a MUST.
  
  I haven't had the pleasure to play this on a gamecube but from the shot's I've seen, it does look 
 like a gem.
  
  I will end off by saying that I will give this game a couple more hours and if I don't see any 
 rain or lightning effects soon like there supposedly is on the gamecube, then I will return it 
 to the shop and ask for my $50 back. If they won't give me back my money, then I will destroy the 
 shop. Then I will write a letter to the CEO of Capcom and tell him to perform the worst things 
 in the world to his mother.
  
  :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kyriakosmagos
Rating: 7.9
Date: Mar 26, 2007 6:51 am PT
Review:  Straight away when you load up Resident Evil 4 you think Crap, I could have set my 20 quid on fire 
 instead . You cant change the graphic details other than the resolution and when you change that 
 to the highest setting it turns the game wide screen with 20% of the screen at the top and bottom 
 blacked out. Then there's the controls, you cant aim with the mouse which is a major disadvantage 
 as its harder using w a s d. Finally there is the fact that the game clearly has not been converted 
 to pc properly. During the movie scenes when you have to press multiple keys to dodge something 
 such as a bolder or a boss instead of it saying space bar + enter or whatever keys you have set 
 it to, it says 4 + 5 or 3 . You think ok, sounds simple enough 4 &amp; 5 , then you press 4 and 
 5 to find out that nothing happens, thats because CapCom hasn't bothered to change what the movie 
 mode scenes say from the Game cube version. So know you have to repeat the movie scene several 
 times to find out what keys are the right ones to press. This took patience as the first time it 
 happened I had to try different keys for about 15 minutes.
  
  However the game turned good and I pass it a couple of times. Its huge too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mmayerss
Rating: 2.8
Date: Mar 18, 2007 9:20 am PT
Review:  Capcom and Ubisoft or who ever ported this game has outdone itself with this game, no words to 
 describe this pile of s.. t. Really did we, PC gamers deserve this, game looks like crap compared 
 to 2 year older release on GC, and the controls are killing me, i can pass the looks but controls, 
 have Logitech Rumblepad 2, and use MouseAim but still it sucks bigtime. It's game for PC, but this 
 isn't a PC game. Disastrous, uninspired, total letdown. Go play Pong, it's more fun, Resident Evil 
 4 for PC is the worst game I have ever try to play on PC. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MindlessTeef
Rating: 7.4
Date: Mar 12, 2007 11:33 pm PT
Review:  I have been waiting for this port for some time, but I cannot suggest that other gamers buy it
 
  
  RE4 is great! Its got some problem (no mouse support, below standard graphics and the typical 
 console button smashing sequences) , but the reason I cannot recommend it is simply that it is frustratingly 
 unstable. I played the first half of the game with it only crashing once, but then the crashes 
 becomes more and more frequent
  
  Off course, if you have the patient of a Saint, go for it RE4 seems to be better on the console 
 (GC then PS2) , but the PC port is a lot of fun. Great atmosphere and a lot of cool (but disgusting) 
 moments makes for a very enjoyable experience
  
  The game would be worth a 9/10, in my opinion, once the bugs are worked out and they do something 
 about the graphics. Ill review and score the game properly (and recommend it&amp;#61514;) once 
 it has been patched 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Terrorantula
Rating: 3.8
Date: Mar 12, 2007 1:45 pm PT
Review:  The graphics look too clean and horrible and for some reason the GC version looks better. I couldn't 
 even play it well ebcause my mouse wouldn't work on it aswel. I'm fedup of lazy ports and the PC 
 has been getting too many lately, mainly from Ubisoft lol, like Ghost recon, Rainbox six and all 
 that lot.
  
  I'm not much of a fan for the old games story aswel it seems like the ending came from MGS lol. 
 Alot of the story also feels like it's been done before save the presidents daughter yawn boring 
 i wish she was dead already cause im fedup of saving her,
  
  Anyways if your going to buy this game then get it for GC or PS2 and not the PC cause its unplayable 
 and just horrible. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MasterBeef3000
Rating: 6.9
Date: Mar 6, 2007 12:26 pm PT
Review:  Straight away when you load up Resident Evil 4 you think Crap, I could have set my 20 quid on fire 
 instead . You cant change the graphic details other than the resolution and when you change that 
 to the highest setting it turns the game wide screen with 20% of the screen at the top and bottom 
 blacked out. Then there's the controls, you cant aim with the mouse which is a major disadvantage 
 as its harder using w a s d. Finally there is the fact that the game clearly has not been converted 
 to pc properly. During the movie scenes when you have to press multiple keys to dodge something 
 such as a bolder or a boss instead of it saying space bar + enter or whatever keys you have set 
 it to, it says 4 + 5 or 3 . You think ok, sounds simple enough 4 &amp; 5 , then you press 4 and 
 5 to find out that nothing happens, thats because CapCom hasn't bothered to change what the movie 
 mode scenes say from the Game cube version. So know you have to repeat the movie scene several 
 times to find out what keys are the right ones to press. This took patience as the first time it 
 happened I had to try different keys for about 15 minutes.
  
  Overall this game has been poorly converted and the only the plus is the sound of the guns, I cant 
 speak for others but I don't buy a game based on its sound quality. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
