-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Restricted Area
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/rpg/restrictedarea/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Four different characters are pleasantly different.
 Gory cyberpunk action RPG gameplay yields some visceral one-man-army thrills.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Dated presentation won't wow you.
 Repetitious gameplay will probably soon wear thin on most.
 Threadbare multiplayer.
 Noticeable bugs and stability issues.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun 15, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.7
Critic Score: 5.6, 26 Review (s)
User Score: 6.4, 411 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Whiptail Interactive
Developer: Master Creating
Genre: Action Role-Playing
Date:     May 31, 2005
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
It's a fairly simple and repetitive action RPG, yet it's not without a certain homegrown charm that 
 should appeal to fans of the genre who don't expect too much. 

  Restricted Area's heart is certainly in the right place. This cyberpunk-themed action-role-playing 
 game draws its inspiration from at least a couple of most-deserving sources. One is Blizzard's 
 Diablo series, which popularized the action RPG genre nearly 10 years ago with its addictive blend 
 of combat and the search for better and better stuff. And the other is Interplay's postapocalyptic 
 Fallout series, one of the best things to happen to role-playing games in the past 10 years, or 
 ever. William Gibson and the makers of the quintessential cyberpunk RPG, Shadowrun, would probably 
 also be at least a little flattered. The game doesn't seem to presume to try to outdo either of 
 its influences, and instead comes across as an homage. On its own merits, it's a fairly simple 
 and repetitive action RPG experience that's rough around the edges, yet it's not without a certain 
 homegrown charm that should appeal to fans of the genre who don't expect too much.  

          It's Diablo with shotguns and mutants. But it's not quite as great as that makes it sound. 
     

  In the grim future of 2083, you get to play as one of four different freelancers who's trying to 
 find his or her way in the world, as well as settle a score. There's Johnson, a trench coat and 
 sunglasses-sporting Neo knockoff; Kenji, a tattooed, shirtless, sword-swinging yazuka; Victoria, 
 a buxom woman with psionic powers (magic, that is) ; and Jessica, a spunky hacker. Each of these 
 characters will spend the vast majority of the game running through mazelike environments, dispatching 
 tons and tons of mutants, robots, high-tech guards, and more, while finding new stuff and gaining 
 experience. In a nice touch, each one also has certain parts of the story that are unique to him 
 or her. You spend the majority of the game fighting through missions on your own, but during key 
 moments, the different storylines intersect, and the main characters interact. Despite some so-so 
 voice acting, an awkward English translation, and the fact that the plot sequences are relatively 
 few and far between, Restricted Area's traditional cyberpunk story works to the game's advantage: 
 It packs a few genuine surprises.  

  As you might expect from having played other action RPGs, the four characters in Restricted Area 
 are superficially different but basically play alike at first. But as they gain experience from 
 defeating foes and accomplishing missions, you'll be able to both develop them in unique ways and 
 discover their various specialties. Some of the differences between characters are obvious right 
 away, such as how Kenji is the only character of the bunch capable of using close-ranged weapons, 
 such as katanas and claws. He's also the only character who can wield two pistols at the same time, 
 though since there's no fast way to switch between close and ranged weapons, you're better off 
 sticking to one combat style or the other. Johnson is uniquely capable of wielding heavy weapons 
 like flamethrowers and plasma guns. Victoria's psionic spells let her heal herself, immobilize 
 and damage her foes, and more. And Jessica fights alongside a powerful spherical droid and is uniquely 
 capable of entering into cyberspace through terminals strewn about the environment. Through cyberspace, 
 Jessica can recharge the droid's energy reserves and gain access to other useful items and information. 

  Certain basic skills -- health regeneration, faster running, weapon proficiencies, and so on -- are 
 common to all four characters, but each also has his or her own tree of 15 unique skills. Not all 
 the skills are necessarily useful, but one of the nice things about Restricted Area is that leveling 
 up (or finding new equipment, for that matter) tends to have a noticeable and immediate impact 
 on your character. Unlike in most other action RPGs, where skill increases tend to yield only marginal 
 gains, here you often get the instant gratification of a significant boost to your ability to deal 
 damage, take damage, or otherwise survive.  

  The combat is pretty good. Well, it's all right. A simple interface of clean blue lines makes it 
 easy to use your health packs and combat drugs to aid you in a pinch, in addition to making it 
 easy to remap the functions of your mouse buttons around your favorite abilities. As for the actual 
 look and feel of the combat, you'll find that the process of dishing it out is more satisfying 
 than the process of taking it. Foes bleed rather profusely as you lay into them with shotguns and 
 submachine guns and such, though it can be difficult to tell when your own character is taking 
 damage. The game's got a nice look to it overall, though the prerendered 2D sprites will seem dated 
 compared to the 3D graphics you're probably used to seeing by now. A solid soundtrack is the highlight 
 of the audio, which mostly consists of lots of groans and gunfire. Restricted Area benefits from 
 not being technologically cutting-edge by being able to throw lots of enemies at you without any 
 slowdown, even on modestly equipped systems. The loading times are awkwardly long, though, and 
 you'll probably spot some noticeable bugs along the way, such as occasional crashes to the desktop 
 or side quests that apparently can't be solved. And, for all the crowded corridors filled with 
 foes, the game seems to inexplicably slow down at times. For what it's worth, such technical issues 
 didn't seriously impact our enjoyment of the rest of the game.  

  Structurally, the game throws you into a hub area from which you get to sell and buy stuff and 
 agree to undertake missions. There are a relatively small number of main story missions, as well 
 as a huge number of rather generic, optional side missions in which you can gain experience and 
 find loot. Variety isn't the game's strong suit. It's initially fun to try out all the different 
 characters and realize that Restricted Area's equivalent of armor pieces, like helmets and chain-mail 
 vests, are bio-engineered and consist of cybernetic implants for your legs, arms, eyes... and even 
 your skin and heart. Ridiculously, it's possible to swap these in and out at any time, as if changing 
 brains were as easy as changing shirts. The variety of weapons, foes, and environments also feels 
 fairly limited, which diminishes the sense of continuous discovery that generally helps make action 
 RPGs exciting.  

          Have a heart. Restricted Area lets you swap out body parts as easily as armor pieces in 
 other action RPGs.     

  Still, between the different characters and the multiple levels of difficulty -- the toughest of 
 which, like Diablo II's hardcore mode, permanently deletes your character if he or she gets killed -- Restricted 
 Area could theoretically keep you busy for a long time if the repetitious action doesn't overstay 
 its welcome (which it probably will, especially since you've probably played this type of game 
 before) . Restricted Area also includes a rudimentary two-player cooperative mode, which is playable 
 on a LAN or through a direct IP connection. You can only play the generic side missions in two-player 
 mode. You get the sense that the developer probably would have preferred to have been able to offer 
 more on the multiplayer front.  

  Restricted Area's instruction manual lists just two people from Germany-based Master Creating in 
 the developer credits. Regardless of whether they're the only individuals who created this game, 
 Restricted Area has the feel of a small, humble project. It borrows liberally from older games 
 that have since influenced much-more-technologically sophisticated examples of the role-playing 
 genre, and Restricted Area's relative lack of audiovisual punch, combined with its straightforward 
 action RPG gameplay, means it's only suited for avid fans of other games in this style. If you're 
 up for a decent cyberpunk-style Diablo clone and are tolerant of technical issues, though, look 
 no further.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (13 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: gerlu
Rating: 2
Date: May 6, 2008 12:57 pm PT
Review:  Restricted Area reminds me of that gorgeous looking girl that you admire from afar. As soon as 
 you get closer and she smiles she displays a lovely set of rotting teeth and bad gums that spoils 
 the whole image.
  
  So let me give you a list of things I did not like about the game. Bare with me this might take 
 a moment...
  
  - Bad clone
  
  Now clones aren't always bad, just look at Sacred, which was an 
  enjoyable Diablo 2 clone. Sure, 
 its got that futuristic twist, but that is 
  about it. If you're looking for a mindless RPG to just pass the time until a 
  good RPG comes 
 along, don't bother. Rather play one of your old RPGs 
  that you enjoyed.
  
  - Dull story
  
  This game has about as much of a story as a really bad pornographic 
  movie. 
 Really, there is no story and if there was one, you'll probably lose 
  it within the first two hours.
  
  - Almost zero side quests
  
  The side quests that you 
 do get are boring and they might as well have 
  left them out. They've got no substance and will add nothing towards 
  your experience.
  
 
  - Buggy
  
  After all the above the game still had to go and be buggy. I think this fact 
  might have pushed 
 me over the edge. Putting on a piece of equipment 
  and not getting the stats increase, etc. that it should be giving... that is 
  just frustrating.
 
  
  - Outdated Graphics
  
  Some bad games try to wow you with great graphics, Restricted Area did 
  not even succeed in 
 doing that. I'm not one that cares much for graphics 
  as long as the story is good. Alas with this game we have neither.
  
  I could go on, but I 
 think I have already bored you (just like this game will) with all the bad things about Restricted 
 Area. 
  
  My last words of wisdom... If you call yourself a lover of RPGs you must not play this game. Don't 
 torture yourself, I've already been tortured for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrwizard209
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 17, 2008 12:43 pm PT
Review:  this game is far from great, but there is just something about it i loved. the substitution of 
 guns over swords and bows was nice. i was a bit nervous about it at first but it grew on me quickly. 
 the graphics are second rate but there's a healthy amount of gore and lots to blow up.
  
  it has very repetitive missions lacking any drive but the chance to test out your new guns makes 
 it fun for a while.
  
  the gamelpay is a regular hack-n-slash. walk over here, click on ememy to kill, avoid traps, pick 
 up loot, repete. the only problem with this is the bugginess. the system is not all that stable. 
 you run into jerky cameras and image glitches regularly. so if you only want a well refined game, 
 keep browsing.
  
  i loved the diffeneces in the characters and the fact that you could always redue your characters 
 skills at any point in the game. it was great for trying out how you want to play and finding the 
 right fit. i loaded up on automatic weapons after giving shotguns and flame throwers a try. one 
 thing the game did very well was sound effects. i have a sub-woofer on my system and it was fun 
 just of fire off rounds and blow up barrels.
  
  there is alot of customization to be done on your character so you can spend hours fine-tuning, 
 an action-rpg trait i always enjoy.
  
  if your not too picky about you games, this is a nice one to play while you wait for something 
 better to come out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Procrastin
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 10, 2008 2:54 am PT
Review:  Hmm, what to say. This game is definitely a Diablo clone for starters. The future setting is slightly 
 innovative, but it's basically the same mouse-mashing gameplay.
  
  The graphics are quite dated, and I'd even say a little worse than diablo which is disappointing. 
 The music and sounds are also quite unimaginative, and I actually thought I heard music from both 
 Diablo and Septerra Core during the game.
  
  For me the game was also quiet broken as only half of the cut-scenes played for me, and I didn't 
 get any NPC quests. Perhaps due to the broken cut-scenes I really felt like I had no idea what 
 was going on with the story line.
  
  The gameplay is VERY repetitive, and you will do the same missions over, and over. What's worse 
 is that some of the missions will be broken as the objective will be missing, which makes for a 
 very frustrating experience.
  
  Overall, I'd say don't waste your money on this game, though it can be fun for some mindless button-mashing.
 
  
  *Edit* Ok, I was bored and decided to play the game again with my character who had finished it 
 once as this was fun in Diablo in order to get even better stuff. But the game is VERY broken the 
 2nd time through for some reason every mission I get has all enemies at least 25 levels higher 
 than my character which makes it nearly impossible to get through a level. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingLim
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 19, 2007 9:07 pm PT
Review:  Everything is outdated, retro perhaps, from the formulaic gameplay, the dull visual design, the 
 half-hearted sound design to the generic storyline. It's not bad considering that there's a refreshing 
 touch to the environment from a usual fantasy setting like Tower of the Undead Lich to something 
 such as Oxygenetic Factory. The idea is cool but the developers did not make full use of this license 
 to make it greater. In fact, they seem to be contented with Oxygenetic Prison, Oxygenetic Factory, 
 blah factory 2, blah blah factory 3 and so on... what a waste.
  
  The action actually boils down to pure mouse clicking on the enemies via guns like sub-machine 
 guns and shotguns. The variety seems a lot, but they look and do the same thing mostly. The 4 characters 
 are varied enough though to make you want to try them out separately, which is a good thing on 
 replayability, but the core action is quite dull, not to mention that there are various random 
 bugs that can prevent you from completing even the main game. If not for the unpredictable bugs, 
 Restricted Area could have had a better score in terms of the nostalgic gameplay alone. Treasure 
 hunting is also not as fun as most hack'n'slash games because the variety is so limited. However, 
 given the persistent gamer that I am, I managed to complete this by avoiding all the bugs from 
 frustrating replays and manual backups of save files and I'm glad that I won't touch it again.
 
  
  KingLim 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SciCo666
Rating: 2.9
Date: Apr 12, 2006 11:18 pm PT
Review:  Now here's an exercise in tedium.
  There are no original ideas, features, or characters in here...
  If you played Fallout, or it's 
 sequel, or have ever been involved in the Shadowrun RPG, you already know what's going to happen 
 in this game, only Restricted area have added one element... boredom.
  Endless running about, shooting critters that respawn if you blink, and collecting all but useless 
 hardware, purely for resale value, at the end of the mission.
  The sounds are annoying, the idiot characters get stuck in the middle of doorways (WTF?) , there 
 is little distinction between the various weapons... the list goes on.
  Really, people, don't waste your money on this one. It's not even worth pirating off your mates. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shalock
Rating: 5.7
Date: Mar 22, 2006 7:13 am PT
Review:  When i first readed about Restricted Area, it has the flavor of Shadowrun, when i started the game 
 and watched the sequences it seemed pretty decent, but then i realized that its another game that 
 spent the majority of its budget in the videos.
  
  The graphics are old and dull for the technology of today, its almost like you take your Diablo 
 character, suit him/her in a trenchcoat and give him a serie of weapons and dull special habilities.
 
  
  The missions are TOO MUCH repetitive and the game its a very short circle of doing the same in 
 the same scenarios every certain time. Then, when you suddenly reach almost the end of the game, 
 the difficulty goes to the sky and you have to take a numberless more of dull missions to get levels 
 to finally take the last mission.
  
  Mediocre story with "differente point of view depending on the character" doesnt give the game 
 the interest i expected...
  
  Overall, it would have been a great game in the 2000... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mehfuz
Rating: 5.2
Date: Oct 28, 2005 5:59 pm PT
Review:  Resticted area is a decent RPG game at first look
  But as the game progress it becomes crap Here are
  some reasons for that-first of all the level 
 design
  all the levels are virtually same. All the missions are
  start in same pattern accept mission, going to the mission 
  area via air ship, landed and start 
 the mission. Graphics are
  nice, but the amount of objects in the environment are very low.
  Sounds are ok. And now the game's saving strategy. You must save the 
  game before quit and there 
 is only one save slot for
  each character and sometimes this file corrupts. There are
  no pause option during the game though there is a in game menu
  but it doesn't pause the game. And 
 now a good things
  about this game-you can collect huge amount and different types
  of items during the game. Beside the guns and health stuff
  characters can also implant artificial 
 body parts. And the psi
  powers of the game is the best i have ever seen. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: erickboy
Rating: 6.2
Date: Jul 1, 2005 7:03 pm PT
Review:  --If you like the type of repetitive hack and slash gameplay that Diablo was, but always wished 
 to use ranged weapons like shotguns and pistols, then this is the game for you, that is if you 
 dont mind the extremely repetitive gameplay, missions for example, are given by several corporate 
 representatives (people in black suits) , they are very repetitive, and sometimes boring, "shoot 
 this", "kill that", "fetch this other thing", are examples of objectives.
  --You just have to get there and start shooting, theres no more to it, also a downside is that 
 every factory, bunker, silo, warehouse, etc. are exactly the same, with a few exceptions, randomized 
 maps dont help very much.
  --On the positive side, there is plenty of loot, plenty of cool weapons, and lots of implants and 
 genetic ehancements, so there is a more distinctive rpg side than on diablo. 
  --In conclusion, if you liked Diablo or Diablo II, you are going to like this one, i wouldnt recommend 
 buying it at full retail price, but if youve always wanted to shoot the hell out of mutants and 
 outlanders then this is your game, graphics are way better than those of Diablo 2 expansion, but 
 still severely outdated (due to its 2d graphics engine) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mcerikson
Rating: 2.1
Date: Jun 16, 2005 5:28 pm PT
Review:  Nothing special about this one. graphics are bad and physics too, the custom menu is nothing special, 
 sound is mediocre. This game should have been nice if it was released two or three years earlier, 
 this game is old. I have to admit the intro movie with the music is very impressive. But once you 
 get to play it, you'll be asking yourself "how come they can't release a Diablo look alike game 
 with new elements and new form of gameplay?". That's why is so hard to find good games these days, 
 because they don't risk new forms of gameplay and prefer to stick with the same old stuff, others 
 just open their chest and bring out a 3 year old game. Thats insulting, really. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Strykar
Rating: 2.1
Date: Jun 12, 2005 1:58 am PT
Review:  There are numerous bugs and glitches. The one I hate the most is the save and exit option. Short 
 and sweet, game released to early. I had to install the game 3 times before I could actually see 
 the cutscenes. There is a great idea buried somewhere in this game, I highly recommend that you 
 watch for patch updates and reviews before purchase.
  Hardcore scifi fans may really enjoy this game. The maps change whenever you restart a game however, 
 gameplay does not. Wait for this title to go budget. I purchased the game on release day and there 
 was already a patch. It gave me a feeling of "Oh yeah, by the way, we forgot to finish this game. 
 If you haven't already figured it out F5 saves, F6 Restores *would have been nice to have been 
 put in the game. Also, It is very easy to get stuck in walls (when you can't see your character. 
 Reminds me of Harbinger, same gameplay, different characters. I was almost done with a mission, 
 I got stuck in a wall. The only options they show you are, Save and Exit. When you die, you get 
 sent back to the city with a bad reputation. Dialogues are all the same except the NPC giving you 
 your missions. Honestly, let the Germans keep this one. How in the world is anyone comparing this 
 to Diablo. It's obvious their technical skills are low, Read their FAQ section..... OLD SCHOOL. 
 Don't waste your money, as with Harbinger, better off as shareware, that way you can see how bad 
 it is before dropping cash. Sorry, no winner here. Nothing like completing a mission only to find 
 your pilot has disapeared, not to mention that you can walk thru walls and not get back into game 
 map. What a waste! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wrednajasobaka
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 8, 2005 6:10 am PT
Review:  If I were to describe this game in terms of other RPGs I've played, I'd say that when it comes 
 to graphics it's similar to Fallout and when it comes to gameplay it reminds Diablo. With that 
 being said this game is neither Diablo nor Fallout, it has it's own good features and shortcomings. 
 
  The game does a good job of substituting traditional RPG race/class feature with four different 
 character with unique skills and capabilities. There's Johnson who's soldier, sword master Kenji, 
 hacker Jessica and Victoria with PSI abilities. 
  Another good feature of the name is certainly its variety of cool items. You can find arms, legs, 
 eyes, hearts, brains and few other parts that you can install in your character. These items offer 
 improvement in variety of attributes and capabilities ranging from improved sight to higher strength. 
 You also find variety of weapons like pistols, shotguns, machine guns and plasma/flame throwers. 
 
  Graphics looks good but gets monotonous, which brings me to my main complaint for this game. You'll 
 fight 90% of your missions in the same barren-dessert scenario, leading to repetitive factory settings. 
 Occasionally, you'll find to yourself in lab or sewers, but I'm my opinion that doesn't provide 
 enough of variety. The game also has limited types of foes ; you'll face same crawlers and mutants 
 with only difference being here that they will have different levels corresponding to your skill 
 progress. 
  Restricted are has shallow and forgettable plot. In fact, this game barely offers explanation why 
 your character you'd want to wander those mutant-infested factories. 
  
  The voice acting of character I played, Jessica, was mediocre at best. There are few dialogues 
 attempting to establish Jessica' depth of personality, but they were delivered with such unemotional 
 and fake voice that they will only prompt dismissive smile.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gumpo
Rating: 6.1
Date: May 31, 2005 7:58 pm PT
Review:  Restricted Area takes inspiration from one of the best computer RPG series' of all time, Diablo, 
 and mixes it up with a mood an environment reminiscent of the Shadowrun Pen & Paper RPG.
  
  The Basics:
  Pick a character from the 4 available. Talk to people in town. Leave the town to 
 kill things. Pick up credits and items. Return to town to brag about killing things. Buy better 
 guns and implants, and do it again.
  
  The inventory system is very similar to that of Diablo, except you have no Armor. Instead, you 
 use implants to enhance certain body parts. Eye implants will assist in finding hidden items, whereas 
 leg implants could enhance the speed or toughness of your character. You'll have a wide range of 
 firearms to equip, all of which are obviously real world weapons, minus the licensed name to recognize 
 them with. You'll see guns from little Glock-like pistols, to shotguns, and the obviously H&K MP5 
 submachine guns. A cool feature provided is also the ability to modify these firearms, thus enhancing 
 the likelyhood to hit an enemy, doing more damage, etc.
  
  Graphics & Sound:
  Besides the fact that its a 2d game, Restricted Area definately manages to suck you into its moody 
 environments. Even though the graphic settings are basically non existant, the visual quality of 
 the late night city streets is downright gorgeous. Add to that the excellent soundtrack, and you 
 just cant help but be enveloped by the deliciously grungey game world.
  
  The Problem:
  From my review so far, you'd assume this was a top of the line game. And in many aspects, it is. 
 However, there are some serious problems that are plenty of reason to totally avoid this game. 
 Firstly, frame rate can drop for seemingly no reason, and happens quite often, even with a high 
 end system. Secondly, the game is translated poorly at times, which can lead to some confusion 
 as to what you should do next. But lastly, and most importantly, the game causes fatal system lock 
 ups for what seems like no reason at all. That's right, if your running windows 98 you'll be greeted 
 by many a blue screen of death. If your running windows xp, you'll be dumbfounded as your computer 
 restarts for no particular reason over and over again.
  
  The total unstability of the game really throws this game from the top of the mountain. Really, 
 Restricted Area could have been the next Diablo, but even with several already applied patches 
 from the german released, the game is still more unstable then the tech demo of Windows 98 from 
 a decade ago. 
  
  Conclusion:
  I so want to recommend this game, but i cant. Only purchase it if your local store doesnt hassle 
 you about returns, because you'll very likely bring it back after a few hours of unexplainable 
 crashes. If a patch is released that can fix this, it might be a wonderful game to add to your 
 RPG collection. But for now, this is a game i think you would be better off staying away from. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sovietx2
Rating: 6.9
Date: May 29, 2005 4:44 pm PT
Review:  It would be an understatement to say that Restricted Area borrows heavily from Diablo games. It 
 is almost exactly like Diablo, right down to the way it handles character statistics, the skill-tree, 
 inventory screen, combat calculations, etc. But this isn't really a bad thing, considering that 
 both Diablo installments were great games. RA tries to stick to the well-known formula and provide 
 the same experience, the only significant difference being it's sci-fi setting.
  
  THE GIST OF IT ALL: same as Diablo. there's a small town to buy\sell stuff, repair stuff, get healed 
 and take on missions. When on a mission, you enter a randomly generated area with multiple levels 
 and mow down hordes of enemies while pressing forward until you find the mission objective (a box 
 of microchips to be taken, a prisoner to be rescued, some guy to be killed, trivial stuff like 
 that) . 
  
  THE CHARACTERS: You know the drill. There are four characters to choose from at the beginning of 
 the game. As usual - the tank, the psi-user (read - wizard) , the versatile one and the one with 
 a katana, not yet sure how he's special. Each character has a unique skill tree - the tank gets 
 additional skills related to gun combat, the psi-user - magic-like psi powers that use energy. 
 Also, arts of the story are a bit different, depending on which character you're playing. This 
 might provide some replay value, though I doubt it's worth the time.
  
  THE GRAPHICS: In essence, RA looks really great - the backgrounds and the sprites are sharp and 
 detailed, the lighting is almost convincing, though some sprites do look to look a bit too distinguished 
 from the background. Exploding barrels (one thing I learned from the game - any desert or underground 
 base or military whatever has lots of barrels full of explosive material just scattered about in 
 heaps) explode in a fiery explosive way, guns scatter shells when fired and so on. However, interior 
 of the various mission environments are very dark, so you'll propably have to crank up the brightness 
 on your monitor, since the game doesn't offer such options. A night-vision device is available, 
 but it runs out of energy too fast (while guns never run out of ammo. Go figure...) . Oh, and the 
 characters hold their guns in a wrong way. It's kind of annoying - doesn't an ex-spec ops guy know 
 how to hold a bloody submachine-gun? Ridiculous. 
  
  THE SOUND: A few kinds of gunshots, generic monster sounds and a few more important lines of dialogue. 
 Nothing memorable.
  
  THE GAMEPLAY: The game goes like this: you get a mission from characters in the city, then enter 
 a mission area. Inside a mission area, all you have to do is: enter a room, click all the enemies 
 to death, gather the loot, repeat steps one to three until you find the objective. You can return 
 to the city at any given time to sell the loot and buy supplies. After a while this gets extremely 
 boring and repetitive, as mission environments are all alike. This game seriously lacks the variety 
 the Diablo games had in the sense of tilesets and enemy behaviour.
  
  THE WEIRD STUFF: There's no armor in the game. Instead, there are artificial limbs and internal 
 organs, including brain, that you can attach to the character. No, seriously, you kill an enemy, 
 it drops it's brain, you pick it up and put it in your head. It's even more weird when you consider 
 that in the beginning the brain-slot was empty, so you, well, presumably had no brain. The last 
 time i saw something as inconceivaby weird as this was the talking water pump that gave you orders 
 in Mario Sunshine. Anyway, tall these organs add something to the stats, exactly like in Diablo.
 
  
  So, all in all, it's Diablo, only in the future, and more repetitive. It's okay if you're seriously 
 into it, though there are a lot beter action-rpg's. Wish they made a sequel/remake of the Crusader... 
 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
