-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Return to Castle Wolfenstein
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/returntocastlewolfenstein/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 27, 2001
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 9.2
Critic Score: 8.7, 52 Review (s)
User Score: 8.9, 3,991 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Activision
Developer: Gray Matter
Genre: Historic First-Person...
Date:     Nov 20, 2001 &raquo;  
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Wolfenstein is well worth it for the multiplayer game alone, so the fact that you get a solid single-player 
 game in the box can only be considered a bonus. 

 As the year has worn on, and more and more big-name PC action games have slipped into 2002, Return 
 to Castle Wolfenstein has emerged as the only triple-A shooter likely to be released in time for 
 the 2001 holiday season. It certainly has a blockbuster pedigree. It's a sequel to Wolfenstein 
 3D -- id Software's first-person shooter that defined the genre -- which was itself a follow-up to 
 the beloved Apple II classic Castle Wolfenstein. Return to Castle Wolfenstein's development actually 
 involved two separate teams, both overseen by id Software. The first team, Gray Matter Studios -- which, 
 under the name Xatrix, had previously produced Redneck Rampage and Kingpin -- was hired to create 
 the single-player campaign, while a new development house, Nerve Software, concentrated its energies 
 on the multiplayer component. All these factors contributed to some perhaps unreasonably heightened 
 expectations. Now that the waiting is over and the game is out, it can be stated for the record 
 that Wolfenstein's single-player mode is good. It's... good. It's pretty good. But with the faint-praise 
 damning out of the way, you'll be happy to hear that the multiplayer game is outstanding.      
      Wolfenstein's single-player mode is good...    

  Wolfenstein borrows much of its structure from No One Live Forever, last year's best shooter. Like 
 NOLF, Wolfenstein is primarily a run-and-gun shooter with some stealth sections mixed in. It also 
 features enemy guards engaged in conversations as you approach them, a largely defensive AI for 
 those guards, and between-level cutscenes that recount meetings between your superiors back at 
 home base. Unfortunately, the dialogue in Wolfenstein is not nearly as sharp as that of NOLF. The 
 overheard conversations never manage to rise to the level of humor displayed in NOLF, and the game 
 fails to create any memorable characters -- not even the game's own hero, B. J. Blazkowicz, who never 
 says a word. The between-mission cutscenes are especially tedious; they're long and visually and 
 dramatically uninteresting.   

  While the execution of the story, which involves your attempt to stop the Nazis from creating biomechanical 
 zombie super soldiers, is a bust, Wolfenstein's graphics are a rousing success. Armed with the 
 Quake III: Team Arena engine, Gray Matter has lived up to the precedent it set for great visuals 
 with Kingpin, the most beautiful and unique-looking of all the Quake II-powered games. Wolfenstein's 
 27 levels are spread across seven missions and feature a good variety of environments. The levels 
 alternate between expansive outdoor scenes, such as a Nazi camp with a good deal of hilly terrain 
 surrounding it, to interiors that range from cramped tombs to massive, ornate castle chambers. 
 The quality and detail of the levels' textures and lighting are uniformly excellent.   

  The weapon models, the character models, and the animations are also first-rate. As it did in Kingpin, 
 Gray Matter used a system that permitted it to mix and match pieces of each model, creating a lot 
 of variety among the Nazi soldiers. In what may be a first for the genre, the models actually appear 
 to have lips that operate independently of the teeth behind them. Character movement is especially 
 smooth. Though the conversations between the guards may not be terribly interesting, the guards' 
 idle animations are great. For instance, at one point a guard patrolling the deck of an icebound 
 submarine stretches, lights up a smoke, takes a few puffs, then drops the butt and stubs it out 
 under his heel. You'll often delay your assault on guards just to sit and watch what they do. The 
 game's zombies -- who look more like mummies than traditional rotting undead -- move with a convincing 
 disjointed shuffle. One particular type of skeleton enemy is especially eerie as it creeps toward 
 you through low-lying fog, its eyes glowing.   

  Wolfenstein's sound effects are generally good, from the dull "thock-thock-thock" of bullets striking 
 the wooden table you're hiding behind to the appropriately varied noises made by footsteps on different 
 floor materials. The game's soundtrack is understated but effective. However, Wolfenstein traditionalists 
 will be horrified to learn that Gray Matter has replaced Nazis screaming at you in German -- a trademark 
 of the series since the original Apple II version -- with Nazis screaming at you in German-accented 
 English. The less said about that unfortunate decision, the better.           ... but the team-based 
 multiplayer mode steals the show.    

  To reuse a phrase that has appeared in or been implied by every shooter review since November 1998, 
 the AI is not as good as the AI found in Half-Life. However, it's certainly not bad, and for the 
 most part it's impressive. Soldiers exhibit a real capacity for self-preservation. Rather than 
 charge right for you, they'll often find cover and stick to it, waiting for you to come flush  
 them  out. They're also smart enough to run away from grenades, and they'll occasionally even kick 
 one back at you. Most of the more annoying AI traits that appear in too many recent games, such 
 as enemies running aimlessly in a circle or not noticing when a buddy two feet away has his head 
 blown off, don't occur in Wolfenstein. On the other hand, enemy soldiers don't give off the appearance 
 of squad coordination, as they did in Half Life.   

  Ultimately, Return to Castle Wolfenstein is a pure shooter. As such, the core of its appeal lies 
 in its gunfights and the variety of different ways that bullets interact with objects in its universe. 
 And it's here that the game stumbles. Though the character models are well animated, their reactions 
 to being hit with gunfire are far too subtle. Often, you'll riddle a soldier with bullets and receive 
 no real visual reaction from him other than the fact that he'll eventually fall over dead. Though 
 "twitch" animations occur, they often don't seem to be completely in sync with or proportional 
 to the physical trauma being visited on a character. The force of your attacks never blows anyone 
 off their feet, for instance. And for an over-the-top game about fighting Nazis, zombies, and reanimated 
 mutant soldiers, there's actually very little blood ever spilled. In virtually every way, the rampant, 
 nonstop violence is oddly muted, which drains the game of the visceral punch offered by the best 
 entries in the genre.    

 The story is weak and the core gunplay isn't completely satisfying. These problems are compounded 
 by the fact that there are very few surprises along the way, either in terms of unexpected gameplay 
 elements or especially interesting scripted scenes. Even though the game takes only about 10 hours 
 to finish on the default difficulty setting, it actually begins to drag a bit during the last few 
 levels leading up to the anticlimactic final boss battle. The single-player game does not involve 
 the go-for-broke, over-the-top shooting sprees of Serious Sam, the incredibly satisfying gunplay 
 of Max Payne, or the density of scripted sequences and surprises of Alien vs. Predator 2. It's 
 thoroughly competent and technically excellent -- but it's also rather sterile and passionless.  
          The game features a wide variety of great-looking environments.    

  Regardless of the single-player game, the multiplayer game is worth the price of admission. Bypassing 
 the traditional deathmatch and capture-the-flag modes by not even including them, Nerve has implemented 
 a team-based game that combines the best parts of Unreal Tournament's goal-oriented assault mode 
 with the class distinctions of Team Fortress. Each map features a unique set of goals that must 
 be accomplished in order for one side to win. Generally, these goals involve one team destroying 
 a series of barriers to reach a final position, at which point they must either blow up some structure 
 or steal an object and return it to an extraction point. The other team, meanwhile, must successfully 
 defend these objectives for a specific period of time. One map, called Depot, provides targets 
 for both teams, forcing each one to play offense and defense simultaneously.   

  Each time you respawn, you can choose from four different classes. Soldiers can use all the game's 
 weapons. Engineers can both plant and defuse the dynamite needed to destroy goal structures, and 
 they can also repair the mounted guns that appear in various fixed positions throughout the different 
 maps. Medics can drop health packs and revive "dead" teammates, permitting them to instantly respawn 
 where they've fallen. Each medic also provides every team member with 10 extra starting health 
 points. Lieutenants can drop ammo packs, and they are the only class equipped with binoculars. 
 Lieutenants can also call in air and artillery strikes, which cut a wide swath of destruction at 
 their target point.   

  All four of the classes are useful and necessary. Since there aren't any health or ammo packs in 
 the levels, the medic and lieutenant are both critical to keeping the team supplied. The soldier 
 is the only class that can access more than the basic weapons, and the mission targets can't be 
 destroyed (or successfully defended from a planted explosive) without the engineer's skills.   
 

  Team-based play is only as good as how easy it is to coordinate team actions and how seamlessly 
 you can fulfill your class role. Wolfenstein is successful here as well. The game uses the quick 
 speech system first implemented in the original Tribes. Any piece of information worth saying within 
 the context of the game is two keystrokes away. The great inspiration Nerve had is to couple these 
 canned statements with appropriate information on the HUD. If you call for a medic, a symbol will 
 appear above your head, and medics on your team will have a waypoint added to their onscreen compass. 
 Requests for ammo are handled similarly, only the requests are routed to lieutenants. The HUD also 
 includes a complete yet unobtrusive list of your teammates, their classes, and what area of the 
 map they're currently in.   

  The way that respawns are handled further enhances the team-play element of the game. Instead of 
 simply respawning as soon as you die, reinforcements are only available every 30 seconds or so. 
 This waiting period provides an incentive for staying alive, but it also means you'll often respawn 
 with a group of your teammates, at which point you'll naturally start moving together. This makes 
 spontaneous squad groupings a lot more common.   

  Two other multiplayer modes are supported. One is just like the objective-based game, only the 
 teams switch sides after each round and must beat each other's times, making it almost exactly 
 like assault in Unreal Tournament. The other mode is a derivative of Tribes' capture-and-hold game, 
 in which each team must secure and defend as many checkpoints as possible. At the end of the round, 
 whichever team controls the most checkpoints wins. So far, both of these are lagging far behind 
 the objective mode in terms of popularity, at least as measured by the number of servers running 
 them.   

  Only eight maps are included in the game, and only seven of them are available in objective mode. 
 This isn't as bad as it sounds, however. The multiplayer game doesn't really become fun until you 
 start to learn both the goals and the layouts of the maps. Since each map is large and complex, 
 it's better to have a small number that you can begin to master in order to start actually playing 
 them effectively. Learning the nuances of just these eight maps is a daunting task. Rather than 
 adding much value to the game, more maps would simply increase the chances of you and your teammates 
 not knowing where you are or what you should be doing at any given moment.           Multiplayer 
 will keep you busy long after you're done with the single-player.    

  It's a sad comment on the state of PC gaming, but perhaps the best thing about multiplayer Return 
 to Castle Wolfenstein is that it's complete and stable right out of the box. Everything works and 
 works well. About the only thing missing is bot support. The Quake III net code was good to begin 
 with, and at this point in its life cycle, it's the best in the industry. The built-in server browser 
 is efficient and gives you plenty of options for filtering games.   

  In a weird inversion of the typical shooter model, Return to Castle Wolfenstein features an amazing 
 multiplayer component coupled with a good if somewhat underwhelming single-player game. Then again, 
 fans of id Software's previous 3D shooters should be familiar with this model. But honestly, Return 
 to Castle Wolfenstein is well worth buying for the multiplayer game alone, so the fact that you 
 get a solid single-player game in the box can only be considered a bonus.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (79 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: WDHellS
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 5, 2009 6:43 pm PT
Review:  There's where it begins as a prisoner .
  
  The graphics not so cool at first ,but it follows the storyline
  that poor at the slum jail and 
 with less resources
  you must to scape when you realize it's all about action .
  
  Here you will remember another game style at this part ,keep playing,
  you get amazing where 
 it gets to different scenery atmospheres
  when you pass the levels  you fell to
  remember you was on another 
 game before .
  
  As a simple FPS player you keep up the gaming ,
  night weapons vision, heavy weapons, the flamethrower .. to kill it .
  Curiosity and the wish to 
 continue is what the final message tells
  when you screw its game secrets .
  Its where you become a nazis with a try to fix it .
  
  But no worry now ,ID Software made it 
 free a multiplayer experience
  that you can battle the allies americans with your different class of axis nazis player types .
 
  Go forward this and Return to Castle Wolfenstein . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nomad250
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 8, 2009 3:08 am PT
Review:  Cool cool cool!!!
  The game is pretty old but it's pure fun!
  I recommend this game.
  
  The fun part is killing the main enemy at last.
  The best game of ID software.
  
  Game play: 
 9
  Music: 8
  Graphics: 7
  
 
  The game is long.
  The enemies are a mixture of mummies and soldiers.
  Based on World World II.
  You are an American spy fighting with the Germans.
  
 
  The objectives are fun to complete!!
  Weapons are cool.
  The best game for low PCs.
  
 
  
 
  The venom gun is the best suitable gun for killing the super soldiers.
  
 
  The environments are good.
  But the graphics are bad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SquishyNoob
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 19, 2008 4:25 am PT
Review:  This game is great; it offers a lot of fun in both single and multiplayer.
  
  About gameplay, it has anything a FPS should have.
  In single player you'll find yourself between 
 Nazis, zombies and even robot-zombies. Their AI is quite good: occasions of them just standing 
 there and getting shot are very rare. They'll get alerted, and run after you. Or defend their zone 
 where you may not expect.
  One of the few downsides, most of the bad guys - common soldiers - drop too quickly: all what it 
 takes is a couple shots or kicks; yes, you can kick too. That for most of them. Instead somehow 
 heavy troopers (the ones with gas masks, in case you find them in game) will take something like 
 half a magazine right to the head to go down. Zombies and similars are instead very hard to take 
 down. Note that even if some enemies die fast, this doesn't mean the game is easy.
  
  About online game, it's quite balanced and needs some team tactics. These elements alone make it 
 good, combined with cool maps some of which resemble the ones you visited in single-player.
  
  
  RTCW is based on Q3 Arena engine: by now, graphics may look a little old to some, but they're 
 still enough to deliver some pleasure.
  
  Sound is, considering all, nice. The music will not get you bored and feel repetitive; each weapon 
 will sound like you'd expect it to do. Only the shouts from enemies might have been a bit better 
 and more varied.
  
  Also, I found almost no bugs in this game. I experienced only one crash.
  In any aspect, a game 
 you should try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChristianKiss
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 9, 2008 12:28 pm PT
Review:  After almost 10 years of wait, a sequel to the amazing Wolfenstein 3D (1992) is released. Using 
 the id Tech 3 engine, made by id Software and used in Quake III: Arena, two companies worked together 
 to build Return to Castle Wolfenstein (2001, published by Activision) , which is certainly a proper 
 sequel to the 1992 classic. While Gray Matter Interactive did a great job with the single player 
 campaign, undoubtly Nerve Software did a much better work with the multiplayer mode.
  
  If you decide to play the single player (and I highly recommend to) , you'll control the american 
 hero B. J. Blazkowicz, who must stop the Nazists to create an army of mechanized soldiers, as well 
 to interrupt a sinister ritual to resurrect undeads. If you're familiar with the first Wolfenstein, 
 then you already know that the developers didn't want to stay far from the original concept. But 
 this game isn't just a remake with better graphics and sounds, but a true sequel that brings a 
 lot of interesting moments and new ideas.
  
  While the original Wolfenstein 3D featured only four weapons, in Return to Castle Wolfenstein you'll 
 have more than 10 options in your arsenal. You'll be familiar with some weapons, such as the pistol 
 Luger and the MP-40 SMG; but there're several surprises too, like the flamethrower, the grenades 
 and the sniper rifle. Most weapons are fun to use, while a few of them are almost useless. Personally, 
 I didn't like any of the thrown weapons and pistols, since they don't seem to work well against 
 any type of enemy (at least on the default difficult setting) .
  
  The enemies have a good Artificial Intelligence, although they simply don't know how to make decisions 
 while in groups. They act exactly in the same behavior no matter if they're alone or along with 
 a team. Nevertheless, they can efficiently take cover and even surprise you. Naturally, the mutated 
 enemies and the undead are quite dumb, but very dangerous too.
  
  There're 27 levels divided in seven missions, which can be finished by a regular player in less 
 than 10 hours. Also, the useful quick "save & load" system helps a lot to make things faster. The 
 levels are variety and you'll have some interesting missions, such as infiltrating into a fortress 
 without sounding the alarm, or recovering an important item etc. Most of the maps are filled with 
 corridors and rooms, and occasionally you'll visit a catacomb or a cemetery, but there're also 
 open environments that make good use of the long ranged weapons. You can even use a binocular to 
 study the place before entering in it, and also do a zoom view to get a better angle if necessary.
 
  
  There're some decent boss battles in Return to Castle Wolfenstein, and they can be challenging 
 depending on the difficult setting. Unfortunately, the final boss is a bit easy, and the most simple 
 strategy can be used to beat the though guy. So, your weapons play an important rule while defeating 
 those ones, since there isn't any other device that need be used against them.
  
  If the great single player isn't enough, then you have an awesome multiplayer mode for some fun. 
 I mean, for a lot of fun! The server options allows you to choose between three types of game, 
 all of them are team-oriented: Wolf MP, which the teams must accomplish some missions in a given 
 time; Wolf SW, where a team must attack while the other will defend the objective, and they switch 
 the sides later on; and Wolf CP, my favorite one, where the teams must capture the flags in all 
 of the checkpoints, and finally hold them simultaneously to win the round.
  
  The players can choose between four classes: the medic, the engineer, the soldier and the lieutenant. 
 All of them are useful and necessary for a successful tactic: medics heal wounded troops, the lieutenant 
 can supply teammates with ammo, soldiers are the best to use weapons and make an attack, and the 
 engineer possesses important destructive skills.
  
  Sadly, you can only play Return to Castle Wolfenstein in multiplayer if you have a good internet 
 connection for online games, or friends to play in local area network, since there aren't official 
 bots for off-line matches. Of course, you can find a good bot support in the web, which will help 
 you to train your skills and get used with the maps.
  
  Finally, the multiplayer doesn't support the single player maps for a cooperative game, which would 
 be a very good addition. However, by combining a great single player and an outstanding and innovative 
 multiplayer mode, you still have a solid game with Return to Castle Wolfenstein. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mohitmukheja
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 12, 2008 11:48 am PT
Review:  i will give a good score to this game as this game came out in late 2001 and i played it in 2002 
 and loved it. for those years this game was an instant hit and addictive. fast paced gameplay and 
 full of variety. though the story is very linear and the game is just run and kill... still the 
 fast paced gameplay and good graphics make it really worth playing.
  as soon as the game starts u will feel something is on ur ass and u have to save it and u will 
 be filled with thrill.. by the passge of time u will get diff kind of weapons and the dame difficulty 
 also varies with time... 
  u dont get bored as the game is not just linear plaing killing. u will get diff kind of things 
 to kill . like super soldiers which will really add some good deal of thrill to the game and will 
 also add to the difficulty.
  u will not find this game very easy .. not not too difficult... i will say the level of difficulty 
 is just right..
  pure fun and enjoyable game...
  play it and enjoy it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Moroes
Rating: 9
Date: May 3, 2008 1:17 pm PT
Review:  
  What happens when you mix Van Helsing science fiction with a PC shooter. Return to Castle Wolfenstein 
 is what happens. Visually this game isn't very appealing, but the gameplay sure makes up for it. 
 The story mode is challenging, with great boss battles. The Artificial Intelligence isn't exactly 
 as great as Halo's, but the enemies don't go down easy. This game mixes in a storyline that couldn't 
 be possible with crazy World War II gorilla warfare gameplay. 
  **
  The story is exceptionally good. If you don't know anything about the previous Wolfenstein games 
 than this won't exactly leave you confused. You will start off playing the game with the impression 
 that its like any World War II game.... but after the first few levels you begin to think that 
 something unnatural is going on. I don't want to give away too much, but lets just say that German 
 Fascists aren't the only enemies you will be fighting.
  ***
  By now you should be getting the general idea of the single player mode. Good news is that not 
 only is there a great story mode, but a well executed multiplayer mode. There are a few bad things 
 about this though. First off, you can't host games unless you buy software that lets you create 
 your own server. Second off, there are very few servers so you might have a hard time finding players. 
 The upside to the multiplayer is that there is no camping. If you aren't constantly moving from 
 place to place you will be slaughtered. Unlike some other games were you can set mines, and snipe 
 from a good spot, this is a bit more realistic. After you take a shot, the best thing to do is 
 run away and find another spot. Due to this games difficulty, you won't be joining in right away 
 and getting 10 or 20 kills a game unless you are very talented. It took me about a week before 
 I started to get more kills than deaths. You just have to get used to the game style, and if you 
 transferred from console shooters, the keys. 
  ***
  Overall this game is a great bargain, comparable to The Orange Box. There are few games that offer 
 so much to do for such cheap price. The only thing that might bother you is the difficulty and 
 the obsolete graphics if you are migrating from the Xbox 360 or PS3. If you are a fan of shooters, 
 than you should defiantly give Return to Castle Wolfenstein a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johngebreadman
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 10, 2008 11:51 am PT
Review:  A historic World war 2 shooter, but with a twist. The Nazis have created undead, you need to take 
 down. This game is great and has a great story for an FPS
  
  Story: 9/10
  
  Surprisingly good for an FPS, this story keeps you engrossed and makes you want to finish the game. 
 You are a soldier in world war 2, and discover a secret during a mission in Germany. The Nazis 
 have created undead super soldiers, that pose a threat to world peace. The game has many twists 
 and turns, and is an incredibly immersive adventure, and it is a great horror story too.
  
  Gameplay 10/10
  
  This is great, There is a variety of weapons available for use and they are 
 all really good and each have a different effect on the enemy. It is exciting and the AI is good. 
 There are also boss battles, which require strategic elements. this is also true of the stealthy 
 missions. But there are also the all guns blazing kill em all type action, there is just something 
 for everybody.
  
  graphics: 8.5/10
  
  While the enemies and the guns look great, the environments arent so good. They are great but not 
 perfect, cerainly not i the style of final fantasy or elder scrolls at any rate. The enemies are 
 absolutely amazing though, you can see the anguish on the super soldiers faces, and the fear in 
 the eyes of regular soldiers
  
  sound and music: 9/10
  The sounds of the guns are great and they all sound different. there is nothing better than hearing 
 the spray of the MP40, except the thud of the sniper bullets hitting home. The screams are amazing, 
 and they strike litereal fear into your heart, but less than the battle sounds of your undead oponents. 
 The sound makes up the most of the horror in the game
  
  Lifespan: 20 hours
  a long story that will keep you intersted, and great gameplay to match. Some replay value, in that 
 the sotry is good
  
  overall 9/10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: chandu83
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 27, 2008 4:22 am PT
Review:  Much has changed in gaming since the early 90's, and old school gamers would have been delighted 
 to know that a sequel to one of the most famous games during its time, Wolfenstein 3D, is going 
 to be released in the new millennium. Return to Castle Wolfenstein is a successor to Wolfenstein 
 3D that was released over a decade ago; Wolfenstein has come of age and is keeping up with the 
 times.
  
  The game is set in 1943 Germany, the player returns as U. S. Army Ranger B. J. Blazkowicz, who is 
 captured and is being held in the dungeons of Castle Wolfenstein. Upon escaping the castle, a plot 
 is unveiled involving Nazi experiments into cybernetics and the occult to gain supremacy over the 
 Allied forces.
  
  The game uses Quake 3 engine to render the beautiful graphics seen throughout. Nvidia users will 
 be treated with improved textures that will make a lot of difference. The snowing mountain ranges 
 of Germany are wonderfully recreated. The cobblestone paved roadways and bridges, and castle interiors 
 are a work of art.
  
  The catacombs are very reminiscent of levels in Quake 3, they have an eerie atmosphere and while 
 the game is not meant to be scary, they do manage to make you feel a little uneasy.
  
  The combat is very engaging and the cable car part in the game seems to have been taken right out 
 of Where Eagles Dare. Very well done.
  
  The AI in the game is very competent, and you will be dealing with a lot of different types of 
 enemies, living and the undead. They do not rush at you squeezing rounds or waving their arms about; 
 instead they take cover, throw grenades, making your progress harder. The perception of the AI 
 has also been considered. They can hear footsteps or any noise that the player might make. So if 
 you fire a shot in room, expect the soldiers in the other room to hear it and attack you. While 
 the AI is not the greatest, it will still provide a challenge.
  
  The weapons models belong to the World War II era, you get to use the Luger, Thompson, Sten gun, 
 the German Panzerfuste, chain gun and something called a Tesla cannon. This is a heavy weapon 
 that sends rays of electric current in all directions. It's not the most effective weapon but it's 
 quite fun to use at times.
  
  Speaking of fun to use weapons, the flamethrower has got to be one of the best weapons I ever used. 
 The flame effects are still regarded one of the finest in gaming. I remember people being mesmerized 
 when they first got to see the screenshots of the flamethrower, and personally, I couldn't wait 
 to get my hands on it in the game.
  
  The sounds of the weapons are very realistic, and the music adds a lot to the experience. The soundtrack 
 in this game isn't talked about a lot, surprisingly. I thought it was really good.
  
  Return to Castle Wolfenstein is an excellent game that will offer a little over 10 hours of very 
 engrossing gameplay. I am thoroughly satisfied with this game. It does not break any boundaries, 
 but provides a solid experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: giro786
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 2, 2007 9:20 am PT
Review:  I don't remember at all this game ; but i do remember that i played it back in 2001 it was a fun 
 game ; the mixing of Nazis and zombies is awesome ; and also the game was full of horror scenes
 
  
  graphics was good at this time ; but of course if you try this game now , you will laugh you as* 
 off i remember me being may be part of the US army , doing what exactly i have no idea you find 
 yourself sourrended by Nazis and zombies and scary faces all the way i remember that i didn't finish 
 the game because i couldn't defeat the last beast 
::::::

::::::
UserName: majesticcryx
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 4, 2007 3:32 pm PT
Review:  Ill spare you the sentimental retrospective about how the original Wolfenstein 3D birthed the 
 first-person-shooter craze and get straight to the point: Return to Castle Wolfenstein is a damn, 
 damn fine game. Want a perfect example of how far the first-person-shooter genre has evolved since 
 it first hit our 386s? Wolf, as its affectionately known, is it. The games graphics, sound, and 
 gameplay reflect all the improvements and advances weve made in the last decade, and wraps them 
 together in one genuinely fun, challenging, and varied package, with a pretty little multiplayer 
 bow on top (see boxout, next page) .
  
  Our hero, U. S. Army Ranger B. J. Blazkowicz, makes the move from flat 2D sprites to the lush and 
 beautiful 3D world of id Softwares Quake III engine. To say that he and his Nazi nemeses have 
 never looked better is an understatement of epic proportions. This collective facelift gloriously 
 brings to life the German army and Nazi commandos, brings half-to-life undead zombies, and brings 
 an imposing life to the baddest cyborg monstrosities since Doom IIs Cyberdemon.
  
  High-res textures, smooth animations, and detailed character models are just some of the treats 
 Wolfenstein has to offer. Nazi soldiers have immaculately detailed uniforms, complete with medals, 
 patches, and insignia. Enemy troops encountered on the battlefield look the part: many wear the 
 scars of battle, bloody bandages, and tattered clothes. As an added treat, the all-female elite 
 guards of the SS Paranormal Division cram their svelte bodies into tight leather outfits that would 
 make Lara Croft blush.
  
  Not only do these characters look great, but they move great, too. Sentries walk the perimeter, 
 stopping from time to time to curse their guard duty lot with a buddy or smoke a cigarette. Elite 
 Guards perform various acrobatic flips as they shred you to bits with their Sten guns. And zombies 
 shamble like no other videogame zombie has shambled before, all thanks to some very well-executed 
 motion-capturing.
  
  These bad guys arent dumb, either. While you wont run into the same level of AI complexity that 
 impressed us so much in Ghost Recon, these enemies are certainly capable of giving you a thorough 
 and humiliating spanking if you slack off. Snipers armed with the devastating paratrooper rifle 
 duck behind cover between shots rather than staying exposed, and soldiers are alerted when they 
 see the bodies of fallen comrades.
  
  As B. J., you begin as a prisoner in the dungeons of the Nazi-controlled castle: Youve been captured 
 while checking out reports of paranormal goings-on. Escaping from Castle Wolfenstein is just a 
 small part of the game. As the story unfolds, youll travel all over World War II Europe, from 
 snow-capped mountains to bombed-out cities, infiltrating secret underground labs and ancient crypts. 
 With each level, youll uncover more about a Nazi scheme to crush the Allies by harnessing the 
 powers of the undead.
  
  Once again, the Quake III engine shines brightly. Dark tombs look wicked and foreboding thanks 
 to eerie fog, cracked sarcophagi, and flickering torches. A secret weapons factory is replete with 
 shiny Death Star flooring and wondrously reflective textures. Even more spectacular levels are 
 the ones that re-create alpine villages, some of which have been ravaged by war. These environments 
 all bristle with the polish that makes some games truly great. Its all in the details, be it rust 
 on metal grating, moss on stone walls, or Nazi propaganda posters hanging in the castle hallways.
 
  
  The sound department is no slouch, either. PC sound has improved dramatically in just the past 
 year, and recent releases have all showcased superb sound effects.
  
  Return to Wolf is no exception: the audio in this game is easily on par with the terrific sound 
 in Ghost Recon. Bullets make different noises depending on what materials they impact against, 
 the flamethrower emits a breathtaking whoosh when fired, and the screams from Nazi soldiers desperately 
 trying to pat out the flames will make you smile the morbid smile of victory [or in Robs case, 
 cackle like a maniacal madman  Ed.] . The sound-design team paid every bit as much attention to 
 detail as the modelers and level designers, and complemented by the games dynamic music, the result 
 is an aural masterpiece.
  
  The mission objectives in Wolfenstein are some of the most diverse Ive seen in an FPS. Some call 
 for you to eliminate all opposition, both living and undead, while others include escorting a tank 
 through a Nazi-held town, sneaking into an enemy camp, and (my personal favorite) assassinating 
 five high-ranking SS officers in a quiet countryside villa. A few of the missions require absolute 
 stealth, but its not over if youre spotted  only if youre spotted and the person who saw you 
 is able to sound the alarm. A savvy gamer will take out the guard before the button is pressed, 
 or better yet, destroy the button itself so no alarm can be sounded.
  
  Other missions are completely open-ended, and while its fun to kick down a door and pump the surprised 
 SS troops full of .45-caliber slugs, the stealthy approach is incredibly satisfying. Silently creeping 
 up to a Nazi scumbag and knifing him in the back is guaranteed to be one of the best moments in 
 gaming this year.
  
  A few people have voiced concern that the inclusion of zombies would compromise the games gritty 
 WWII feel, but trust me when I say that their worries are completely unwarranted. When the zombies 
 are introduced to the game, its in a part of the story where they make sense, and you wont see 
 them anywhere else. Also, you dont spend that much time fighting these gruesome corpses. The meat 
 of your opposition will come from the German Army, and later in the game youll encounter some 
 impressively tough cyborg mutations called Lopers.
  
  The biggest challenge, though, comes from the bosses, and in Wolfenstein, youll have to deal with 
 some of the hardest end-level battles ever. These epic shootouts will pit you against mechanized 
 supersoldiers, a large SS woman possessed by demonic spirits, and other horrors that are best
 
  
  kept secret. Strangely enough, while these struggles are tough, and the chances of you winning 
 on your first try are slim, theyre truly thrilling. I finally downed the final boss with just 
 four health remaining, and Rob managed it with eight health and his last remnants of ammo  a perfect 
 example of the finely honed game balance, which gives you a real sense of accomplishment.
  
  The arsenal is made up mostly of real-life WWII weaponry such as MP-40 submachine-guns, Thompsons, 
 Colt 1911s, Lugers, and Panzerfauzt rocket launchers. By now, youve probably already heard about 
 the biggest treat: the flamethrower. This instrument of destruction is both beautiful and terrifying 
 in its pyrotechnic glory. Never before has a more convincing representation of fire been created 
 on our PCs, and when you get your hands on this baby, you wont want to let it go. Topping off 
 the weapons lineup are two experimental arms youll find during your missions into Nazi research 
 laboratories  the venom gun (a handheld minigun) and the tesla gun (which projects purple lightning 
 similar to what the Emperor in Return of the Jedi cast from his hands) .
  
  We experienced no significant performance issues on a range of systems, but a GeForce2 is certainly 
 recommended. Similarly, we had nary a crash through the entire game, though one time a level loaded 
 and our guns were missing. A quick reload solved the problem.
  
  Gray Matter didnt take any mind-blowing new steps in the world of first-person-shooter creation. 
 Instead, it took the core aspects of every good shooter, and made them great. By the time you finish 
 this game, youll be eager to go back for more, and at a harder difficulty level (there are three) . 
 Wolf is money well-spent, and I recommend it to any gamer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Grantelicious
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 2, 2007 6:33 pm PT
Review:  I'm going to give this game a high rating purely for my nostalgia and how great this game used 
 to be back in 2001. Sure it's not a timeless classic like Half-Life but it did do some things much 
 better. The multiplayer back in the day ws one of the firsts to have classes where you can choose 
 what weapon you want within them and have medics too. Also the Multiplayer had a great airstrike 
 feature which made the screen shake and it was all really kool back then. However they released 
 ET a year or two after and the multiplayer suddenly died because you could now play it for free 
 instead of buying the original. I must say though i didn't like ET and the original was much better 
 for some reason, maybe because it had better maps and the weapons were just better.
  
  So the single player is great and it's made up of a series of levels set in different areas. I 
 would have prefered the Half-Life type way where its all one seemless thing but it was sill really 
 fun. The weapons were great and as usual you get access to more powerful ones later on but one 
 of my favorite weapons was the flamethrower because it had the best fire effects ever. I remember 
 thinking woah the little flame that sticks out of the end moves about when i move weapon which 
 was really kool at the time lol. It does have very hard bosses and the one at the end being REALLY 
 hard and took me many attempts to kill him. Whats worse is the game is pretty scary when it wants 
 to be with all the crazy Nazi undead inventions lol. Like when your in the catacombs and the undead 
 just walk out of the walls and alot of newer scary games just don't have that like Doom 3.
  
  The Single player will last about 10 hours which is of average length and it's a very very 
 good game. What makes RTCW even better was the fantastic multiplayer for the time and just turns 
 it into a good single player games to a all round amazing package with the multiplayer.
  
  What was good about th emultiplayer is it did alot of new good stuff for the time and it's one 
 of the first multiplayer FPS games i remember to have 64 players on a server. Also the maps were 
 big and fantastic and had objectives you had to do to win the round which were very kool. All the 
 classes and weapons were really good and i loved how you could be a medic or give ammo and help 
 people. It was just one of the first games to bring it all together and make it very fun.
  
  RTCW offers a great overall experience which hasn't aged well today because other multiplayer 
 games have enhanced on it and ET made RTCW's multiplayer dead because it's free. Also the Single 
 Player it's the best but still great.
  
  So purely because it gave me such a great time back in 2001 and 2002 i'm going to have to rate 
 it high. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frantic190
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 1, 2007 5:57 pm PT
Review:  Nostalgia remains engraved in my mind from back in 1992. When Castle Wolfenstein debued, it rose 
 to eminence as a classic game. The genre had not seen anything like it. It was depicted as a violent/gory 
 title with an enormous change of pace. Before that time, people had been involved into such Action 
 titles such as, Double Dragon, Battle Toads, Ninja Turtles and Super Mario. Before long, Castle 
 Wolfenstein was released as a Pc title, and people were shocked. The violence level was outrageously 
 high, and people adored it. Though it wasn't released in Germany, everyone else but, had a chance 
 to play the highly anticipated game. It was a realistic aspect of violence and gore produced into 
 a small diskette. Probably the most distinct memory I have of Castle Wolfenstein, is the German 
 outfits and the crackly sound of yells coming from my speakers as the German soldiers were shot. 
 Don't take any offense from what I just said. Castle Wolfenstein was highly acclaimed as the best 
 Action title at its time (1992) . I agree. Some of the gameplay is mesmerizing as well disturbing. 
 Taken into mind, disturbing as in shooting human soldiers that were once included in World War 
 becomes into a percentage of realism.
  
  People had become in thirst of another Castle Wolfenstein. People assumed they would never be able 
 to relive the day when the first Castle Wolfenstein was released. But it would in fact happen once 
 again. In early 2001, the company by the name of Gray Matter , had revealed that the next Caste 
 Wolfenstein was being under production and would be made under the name of Return to Castle Wolfenstein 
 . They had released some screenshots to go along with it, and they looked gorgeous. I for one, 
 was amazed to see another Castle Wolfenstein was being constructed and therefore, I was definately 
 interested. By the time Christmas came around, Castle Wolfenstein was on everyones Christmas list. 
 Mine as well. I have had the pleasure of playing it since the day I recieved the game, and have 
 played it at a full extent, by concluding that its worth the time and money as much as its predecessor.
 
  
  Very realistic sounds pull you into the game and make you feel that you really are in WWII. The 
 sound of airplane propellars sputtering and speeding overtop your head while dropping a bomb that 
 makes a screaming noise and makes your heart start to beat faster. The sound of dirt flying in 
 all directions and the rapid fire sound of bullets exiting the barrels of the guns. The thumping 
 noises made by your army boots running along hard surfaces and the sound of rippling water as you 
 cross a dugout. Sounds of flesh being torn as you agressively slice with your knife. The German 
 accents and language itself, makes you wonder as of what their speaking of.
  
  As you can see, the game trys to provide us with as much sound effetcs as possible. Explosive sounds, 
 guns being shot, screams from bombs and sputters from an airplane engine all at once would for 
 surely get you a little scared and try to run from it as far as possible. It all sounds very crisp 
 and very well designed, and sounds like it came right from WWII. VERY well done, and will get your 
 heart pumping and it won't stop.
  
  RTCW is set at the time of havoc. The apocalyptic battle of WWII. SS head Himmler has Hitlers full 
 approval to tiwst science and create a new breed of soldiers capable of annihilating the Allies. 
 Your deed is to stop Himmler - or die trying. You play the role of B. J. Blazkowicz , a one man 
 army destined to pierce the Third Reich and to infiltrate Castle Wolfenstein and uncover the schemes 
 that Himmler has produced, and defeat the evil he has provided.
  
  Powered by the Quake III Arena engine, RTCW is rich in detail, environmental effects, realism and 
 masterful level design, and it will surely not disappoint. RTCW begins with a cutscene providing 
 info on the jail you are imprisoned in. After the explanation, it puts the game into your hands. 
 Thats when you begin your first task. To flee the prison you are held in and to survive trying. 
 RTCW is provided with a vast number of missions, all ranging in difficulty and length. Some of 
 the boss battles are ferocious. They will tear you up in seconds, and minutes is what it sometimes 
 takes to defeat them. So you need great skill and patience to overcome some of the enemies. Speaking 
 of enemies, some of them come in a great deal of originality. They aren't your typical enemy soldiers 
 you would expect to see in any other war related game. There are soldiers but, some of them are 
 zombified. It will take a great deal of ammo to resist the zombified enemies from approaching you. 
 Some of them evin summon ghostly spirits that will take a great deal of health from you, so beware. 
 They may even be provided with a shield and axe, and bullets will deflect off the shield and hit 
 you, so bombs are better used in this case instead of ammunition.
  
  Many missions will be held in different areas. Some may include you having to sneak around a base 
 camp without having being spotted. Others will have you enter a crypt with a platoon of zombies. 
 The missions provide a realistic
  feeling to them, very real. It will hold onto you and will not let go. The depth of the game is 
 very deep. The story is driven in well directions, with a few twists and frightening moments, its 
 definate that RTCW will draw you in.
  
  The A. I (Artificial Intelligence) is well forumlated. The enemies are as well intelligent as they 
 are powerful. They will track your every move and will not have second thoughts on shooting you. 
 No remorse. Shooting from a far distance is no problem for them, they fire at will. Sometimes they 
 will spot you and sound an alarm, so you need to be quick and sleek. Various types of weapons can 
 be retrieved throughout RTCW such as, Thompsons, Rocket Launcher, Snooper Rifle, Grenades, a Venom 
 and much more. Kicking your enemy is an option thats also included.
  
  The multi-player feature is a complex attribute. It consists of Allies Vs. Axis in an all out bloody 
 brawl. Many different maps are included for you to wage war against your opponent. Medics are included, 
 as well as Soldiers, Engineers and Lieutenants. Medics are used to heal the wounded or the dead. 
 Soldiers can pick from a variety of weapons, and Lieutenants can provide ammo to the Medics, Engineers 
 and Soldiers. Engineers are used to plant dynamite to break apart stone walls to enter the opponents 
 base, and to defuse opponents dynamite as well reload the sand bad machine guns. Airplanes will 
 even drop bombs over the battle grounds, so watch out! Barb wire and sand bag machine guns are 
 included as well.
  
  Overall, I suggest you buy this ASAP. You really are missing out on a classic, and it comes with 
 a pretty cheap price tag to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jagg3d
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 25, 2007 2:09 pm PT
Review:  This game has been and still is my all time favorite multiplayer. I never have seen since this 
 game the level of teamwork and overal cooperation by any team in any other game.
  
  Unfortunately this being a little bit late to talk about this game it is already dead or dying 
 and the MP hayday is long over. Oh well it was great while it lasted and I hope new games like 
 Quake Wars can recapture the genious of this saga.
  
  The grapics are the only thing I would take down one but otherwise the gameplay, sound, and value 
 are outstanding 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slow_death
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 26, 2007 5:23 am PT
Review:  Rtcw is a fps which is a class of its own.
  It succeeds Wolf 3D which was not really a 3D game. But still good for its time. Descent.
  Rtcw 
 has come a long way from Wolf 3D. Its a really cool game full of perfect blend of violence and 
 gore. Really not intended for younger viewers. Loads of guns you can use to kill the badguys.
 
  After I complete a game I always like playing it again [ except if its some crappy game ] with 
 cheats. The problem with Rtcw is that you have to create a backup file of the game [ just like 
 all other id games ] . And sometimes even after you create the backup folder the game still chews 
 up your computer.
  If you buy the game make sure that you buy Enemy Territory.
  Its worth the money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MallratsJaySB
Rating: 7.1
Date: Apr 23, 2007 10:45 pm PT
Review:  It's hard to talk about Return to Castle Wolfenstein without at least mentioning the original Wolfenstein. 
 Although Doom catapulted FPS's to the top, Wolfenstein 3D was the game that started that ascension. 
 Also, while Doom has stood the test of time and is still a blast to play, the original Wolfenstein 
 has fallen into obscurity and most of it's appeal is gone. Well, along comes Return to Castle Wolfenstein 
 to remind us that the franchise is still around. But the question is this -- does it deliver? It's 
 hard to say. Since this game came out 6 years ago, it's unfair to compare it to other newer FPS's 
 because our standards are different than what it was in 2001.
  
  You are B. J. Blazkowicz and you are captured in a Nazi facility. Well, as luck would have it you 
 are able to escape and grab a gun. You are a part of a secret government organization unknown to 
 everybody but a small number of people. Apparently there is evidence that the Nazi's are developing 
 a super soldier that would make it easy for them to win the war. It's your job to find it and destroy 
 it. That's the gist of the story and none of it is particularly interesting. The cutscenes are 
 few and far between and almost all of them are sleep inducing.
  
  When it all comes down to it, Return to Castle Wolfenstein is nothing more than a beefed up remake 
 of the original Wolfenstein. The company plays it off as a direct sequel, but it's not simply for 
 the fact that the story is practically the same. The only difference is that the buildings are 
 more detailed and some of the boss fights are different. Although still decent, the gameplay is 
 definitely showing it's age. The range of guns is nothing that hasn't been seen in countless other 
 shooters since. They consist of the usual machine guns, pistols, sniper rifles, etc. They all work 
 fine, but there is nothing about them that makes them interesting to use. They're all very generic 
 when the layers are peeled back.
  
  The biggest problem about the gameplay is that, just like the original Wolfenstein, this game tends 
 to be one big maze at times. In most levels, the areas look exactly the same and you'll find yourself 
 navigating through the castle/building only to make a big circle and end up where you started. 
 Although this does make the game feel a bit more open, there is always one clear path to the end 
 of the level so it quickly becomes nothing more than a hassle.
  
  Most of the levels consist of running through and blasting down everybody in your path. To try 
 to add a little diversity, the developers threw in some trivial objectives. Most of them will likely 
 have you either destroying something or killing some commanding officers. But here's the problem. 
 It's never clear when you've actually done an objective. I even managed to forget my objectives 
 in a few levels, but just by running and gunning through the whole level, I accomplished them. 
 The game tries to make you think you're doing important things when in reality you aren't.
  
  Every now and then, the levels will throw in a stealth portion to try and give you a break 
 from the mindless shooting. You must take down your enemies silently and not raise any alarms or 
 you fail the mission. This sounds like a good idea, but it fails miserably. This game makes the 
 stealth portions so painfully boring that you'll try to rush through it just to get it over with, 
 only to fail several times and therefore make it longer. In some of these areas, it's just too 
 hard to stay unseen or take down an enemy silently. For instance, there was more than one instance 
 where I quietly snuck up behind a standing guard and stabbed him in the back multiple times. Well, 
 he didn't die. He turned around and shot me before he died. Hearing the sound of the gun firing, 
 the nearby guards sounded the alarm and I failed the mission. The stealth mechanics just aren't 
 developed enough to be any fun.
  
  The AI in this game is a mix of good and bad. There were some times in this game where I found 
 multiple guards in a room. One would take cover and fire while another one charged me while another 
 one moved around the room and got me from behind. Whether they were meant to do that or it just 
 happened coincidentally doesn't matter. It was still rather impressive. But in other parts of the 
 game, the guards are so ridiculously stupid that it just becomes sad. If I learned one thing from 
 this game, it's that Nazis can't see through windows. There was one instance in particular where 
 I stood right in front of a guard behind a window, literally a few feet away, and he just stared 
 right through me as if I wasn't there. It didn't happen too much, but every time it did, it was 
 laughably pathetic.
  
  Despite being 6 years old, the graphics still hold up fairly well. Nothing is painstakingly detailed 
 and the enemies are used over and over, but it doesn't look any worse than an early PS2 game which 
 isn't all that bad. The walls are adorned by pictures of Hitler and flags with Swastikas on them 
 which help lend a little bit of authenticity to the game even though it's obviously a huge work 
 of fiction. There are some strange instances of clipping or weird deaths, but overall it's not 
 bad.
  
  The sound is one of the worst parts of the game. Nearly everything is borderline terrible in every 
 sense of the word. The voice acting is painfully dry and monotonous, the guns sound much weaker 
 than you'd think they would, and the death cries of the Nazis aren't funny as they were in the 
 original Wolfenstein. Now it just sounds stupid. The score is the brighter side of the audio, but 
 it's still nothing special. It just barely makes it above the line of mediocrity.
  
  Writing a review for this game now is pretty much irrelevant. Chances are that if you haven't played 
 this game already, you most likely never will. Since the time that this game came out, other shooters 
 have too and many of them are much better. Despite that, I'm glad I played it because it was nice 
 seeing where the legendary Wolfenstein series was heading next. I was unable to play multiplayer 
 so this review is based solely on the single player. Even so, Return to Castle Wolfenstein is a 
 game that has grown too old to be as revered as it once was, but is still fun nonetheless. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: agturboninja
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 20, 2007 5:03 pm PT
Review:  RTCW is a great fun WWII shooter. Not all the weapons are accurate like the Tesla gun and Venom 
 chaingun, but they are very cool. There is amny great sites and you deal with the occult in this 
 game, something that you don't deal with in Medal of Honor or Call of Duty. the occult is neat 
 because the zombies are nasty and its a bit freaky in the dark catacombs. Also fighting robot soldiers 
 mounted with chainguns and rocket launchers isn't quite realistic in 1942, but the Nazis did make 
 some advanced stuff. In RTCW you play a mute hero that takes orders and kicks ass. You shoot Nazis. 
 You're alone always on suicide missions outnumber 100- 200 to 1. Well you wish you could go to 
 the OSA HQ and shoot them. The enemy AI is well done and react well with sounds. The stealth is 
 done well for the missions. Everyone says multiplayer is great. It's probably true but I never 
 played one bit of multiplayer.
  
  It's a great addition to all of the WW2 shooters out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: manuele1
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 5, 2007 2:56 pm PT
Review:  I remember when I bought this game when it first came out. I was so addicted to it. I still think 
 its better than a whole lot of titles still coming out (of course that are FPS) .
  I used to play online for so long, I sold it to EB games, Im going to buy it again and play the 
 crap out of it. I dont even care if it doesn't have great graphics, I still say a classic is a 
 classic. When I pick this up I know I will stop playing battlefield for a while, and I really don't 
 mind :D. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jaydenakasha
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 27, 2007 4:19 am PT
Review:  A fantastic game that shouldn't be missed. Great gameplay, graphics, sound, it has it all! I will 
 list everything in the following sections...
  
  1. Gameplay- Great variety of single player missions, allowing you two ways to approach them, either 
 be sneaky and tactical or just run in gun blazing. The storyline was a bit boring, but the level 
 design well enough made up for that. The single player missions are fun to replay as well.
  
  The multiplayer was great, offering more than just the standard deathmatch, capture the flag 
 etc. I especially enjoyed the objective based missions. The fact that you could choose between 
 many different classes was great, and it really required team effort to succeed. 9/10
  
  2. Graphics- Based on the quake 3 engine, this game looked great! There was a wonderful amount 
 of detail in the indoor and outdoor scenarios. The gun models, player models, objects, and environment 
 all looked great. 9/10
  
  3. Sound- The sounds was very good. The guns sounded good, the atmospheric sounds were good, but 
 the best sounds were the conversations between the nazis, just fantastic! 9/10
  
  4. Value- The game these days is cheap, great value, about $15. 10/10
  
  Overall, RTCW is a 
 great classic that is not to be missed. 8.9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Terrorantula
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 1, 2007 8:45 am PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  
  The single player game was near perfection and scary as ****, all my friends loved the game and 
 so did I. 5/6 years down the line however the games obviously showing signs of age and the multiplayer 
 isn't as popular as it was. However!! ET is a free near carbon copy of RTCW Multiplayer and thats 
 massively popular so give that a try instead. It's just a shame that 5/6 years later and theres 
 still now wolfenstein 3 or RTCW2 : (
  
  Single Player:
  
  Scary, long and really really fun + it is one of the best single player games i've played when it 
 comes to FPS :) I honestly havn't been scared sooo much in my life when it comes to the catacombs 
 and that lol.
  
  Anyways it's not revolutionary like HL or the original Wolfenstein but fun all the less.
  
 
  Multiplayer:
  
  One of the first FPS games i've played with classes and the ability to customise your load which 
 was soo amazing back in the day. It's very fast and fun and probally again one of the best i've 
 played. It's just a shame the original games is dead and you'll have to download ET.
  
  Graphics:
  
  They're looking dated but for the quake 3 engine it's still looking quite good 
 and it still has the ebst flamethrower graphics i've ever seen in a game. The art is really nice 
 aswel and it's suprising how well it holds upto today. Imagine what we thought back in 2001?
  
  Sound:
  
  Great sounds and music and i can't really fault it over than it's becoming outdated.
 
  
  Value:
  
  It's not actually on sale in many stores anymore but it retails for &pound;5-10 which is amazing 
 value! It was even more value back in the day when its multiplayer was more popular and it was 
 upto date.
  
  
  End of the day this game is one of the best FPS games ever created! It's probally the best all 
 rounder because usually you have to choose between Multiplayer or single player but this you get 
 both.
  However it is becoming increasingly outdated and we're just waiting for a 3rd game in the series. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: satorn
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 3, 2007 12:47 pm PT
Review:  Well , this is one of the best first person shooter games !
  why? cause it has very good graphics , sound effects and missions.
  when you play this game you 
 will feel like you are really inside old germany .
  cause the inviroments are high - quality , the maps are detailed well and believe me when you start 
 this game you can't quit it easily !
  some mossions needs to be patient and clever not to shoot everyone loudly , like finding the entrance 
 to the x-labs .
  other missions requires you to go under cover or to be stealth person and try to stay away from 
 the german soldier ( to avoid the alarm of goes on )
  so , play this game now !
  
  best regards
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Denji
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 14, 2007 11:29 am PT
Review:  I seem to be getting into games as of late that do a good job of making you jump (if you get into 
 it like I do) , and this game is one of them. I'd have to say that THIS GAME is one of the best 
 FPS of ALL TIME. They've done an excellent job redoing the very first FPS game from days of old. 
 This game is ALMOST on par with the likes of Resident Evil as far as the monsters go (atleast in 
 my opinion anyways) A lot of these monsters really stack the odds against you, even in easy mode. 
 Making you resort to running for your life for cover, especially in the later levels with even 
 worse monsters, especially ones that could kill you in 1 leap. Not to say that the human soldiers 
 are a cake walk, they have thier share of toughness aswell. Especially the female covert agents, 
 they're a quick tricky bunch, hiding behind corners waiting to ambush you. The weapons in the game 
 are nothing short of awsome and pure excitement. Even the lower weapons like the Thomson or the 
 Krauser are even great to use against your foes. But the higher weapons you get in later levels 
 make it even better. This game over all is just plain fun and a bit freaky too.
  
  Any FPS fan looking for a great game and sick of Halo everything should pick this game up. I asure 
 you, you'll have a great time. While you're at it, swing around the net and download yourself a 
 free copy of Enemy Territory. The multiplayer version of this game, which also brings hours of 
 fun of online play aswell. I don't need to say much more, just check this game out, you won't be 
 disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tomdude747
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 8, 2007 9:58 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazing in so many ways. Its the best FPS game ever and thee best game ever in my 
 opinion. First of all its an amazing story and concept which is somewhat true. The time is during 
 World War 2. The Nazis are getting involved in the occult. They are trying to wake up super natural 
 powers and harness them into weapons. They also make these insane creatures and machines. Its so 
 much fun the story you go through the creatures you fight and the weapons you use. This is the 
 first game that I ever played that had a flame thrower. And its awesome in the game. Also its a 
 great multiplayer game. In multiplayer you have different classes such as: Soldier, Engineer, Lieutenant 
 and Medic and so on. Lieutenants can give ammo to other players and call in artillery and air strikes 
 and Medics can give health to other players and revive them if they die. Engineers blow up stuff 
 up like objectives and can blow through some walls and stuff that you need to get through to reach 
 your objectives. Soldiers and just basic units with no special skills but are still fun to play. 
 This is a great game which every FPS fan should own. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maikaum
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 18, 2007 4:38 am PT
Review:  It's one of the best games of all time!!
  It's one of the best games of all time!!
  It's one of the best games of all time!!
  It's one of the best games of all time!!
  It's one 
 of the best games of all time!!
  It's one of the best games of all time!!
  It's one of the best games of all time!!
  It's one of the best games of all time!!
  It's one 
 of the best games of all time!!
  It's one of the best games of all time!!
  It's one of the best games of all time!!
  It's one of the best games of all time!!
  It's one 
 of the best games of all time!!
  It's one of the best games of all time!!
  It's one of the best games of all time!!
  It's one of the best games of all time!!
  It's one 
 of the best games of all time!!
  It's one of the best games of all time!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fixer38
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 2, 2007 4:07 am PT
Review:  RTCW is a fast paced, easy to pick-up shooter with alot of fun and great multyplayer. The singleplayer 
 campaign puts you in the boots of Bad-Ass agent Blazkovits on his missions to help the world get 
 rid of nazis. It may sound GI at first but that game is good with singleplayer and multyplayer. 
 In singleplayer you get a nice set of missions to do with different objectives and alot of weapons. 
 Multyplayer is well... multyplayer what can I say? Fun, Easy and Interesting. If you are looking 
 for a retro game with shooting and medium graphics then RTCW wount disapoint you.
  
  RTCW - Return To Castle Wolfenstein. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gonzcast
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 6, 2006 11:38 am PT
Review:  I played RTCW sometime ago, for the second time, the experience was good enough. There are some 
 things you can't find in other games, and that is hard enemies or monsters that need all your game-knowledge 
 and experience... First time I encountered Heirich, i just turn off the game and gave it up I couldn't 
 beat him. Last time I did it in an easier way.... In fact Heinrich is one of the most challeging 
 foes you've ever find... So you feel orgasmic when you beat him...
  The historical aspects of this game are well linked... It seems like an spy going out to the whole 
 fornt of war... alone and with some people obsessed in killing you... it's just great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hawaii_Dragon
Rating: 4.3
Date: Dec 1, 2006 11:15 pm PT
Review:  AIR STRIKE AIR STRIKE AIR STRIKE!!! I NEED MEDIC, I NEED MEDIC, I NEED MEDIC . WTF did you see 
 me shoot that guy in the head like 30 times!??! . aaaah whats going on!!?!? *LAGGGGG* dont step 
 in the smoke noob! *Spawn* *run out of spawn* *EXPLOSION* *respawn* *run out of spawn* *EXPLOSION*
 
  
  The multiplayer is free and its not a big download, thats the only reason I think anyone would 
 play this game. if you dont like shooters where the entire multiplayer is people jumping up and 
 down shooting machine guns and throwing grenades than dont play this game. But if you like to play 
 free crap than play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: qoakzmwisjxneud
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 30, 2006 11:49 pm PT
Review:  i absoulutly love this game im on the forest compund level at the moment, as i sed before this 
 game does not repeat its missions, u escape from a prison, invade a village , go thru these catacombs (extremly 
 scary) , go thru a rocket base and at the end u get to go up against the scary creatures u will 
 ever see
  x creature - (i was scared ****
  
  u vs bosses at the end of each chapter and the online is great.\
  
  this is a sci-fi game with 
 the paranormal aswell as following a great story line!
  
  get this game u wont be dissapointed lots of weapons to enjoy including monster weapons, the venom 
 gun
  
  i like this game and is has a frustrating difficulty 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vee222222
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 21, 2006 7:11 pm PT
Review:  What this game teaches is how to to navigate a castle full of NAZI'S. This game jam packed with 
 killing and shooting. Yes and my favorite when they die just kick them for a pool of blood to form. 
 If that doesn't make you happy. I don't know what will. this game plays like a normal first person 
 shooter and has a online multi-player. This also has zombies like every Wolfenstein game. EVERYONE 
 loves zombies. With there bleeding and eating aren't they just adorable. The things i did not like 
 is the explosives. You can't throw them... Well . Also, no real quick zoom. Only for a sniper rifle. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Warlypwnage
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 5, 2008 9:23 am PT
Review:  This game is un-believably good/addictive once you find a good server. I think the best way to 
 play it is on a one life to live server that cycles maps (Ganja palace on version 1.4) the game 
 is awesome on all fronts, from the guns to the timed grenades to the gibs, the graphics, the sound, 
 the objective based multiplayer (or elimination if u prefer) to the definate advantage of working 
 as a team to everything else. if you play one online multiplayer game, this is the one you need 
 to play. Forget the battlfields and the calls of duty, this is where the best online FPS gameplay 
 is, just make sure you find a good server. Oh yea, singleplayer is mediocre to boring at best. 
 DOnt even bother playing it, your better off just trying to find a good multiplayer server to play 
 in. WHY DOES THIS REVIEW HAVE TO BE 800 characters.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fahad2mail
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 7, 2006 2:40 pm PT
Review:  I remember the 1st 3d shooting game. The game name is Wolfenstine 3d. This game is a milestone 
 of 1st person shooting game. It seems that Return To Castle Wolfstine keep the series top. An Awsome 
 game i ever played. Seems like some stolen feature from NOLF. But its still have some unique things 
 of its own. So dont worry. At 1st i have to say about the graphycs. Its awsome man. Though it use 
 Quake 3 team arena engine, but the detail is better a little bit than the team arena. Every thing 
 is detailed in the game. from weapon effect to world, Developer did a hard job. The sound is also 
 good. This will keep you in track. Now the gameplay. Some thing is same as NOLF. The Objective 
 is clear as this is a 1st person shooting game. You are a solder who caught by enemy (garman army 
 who believe on Hitlar) . At 1st you have to get out from the castle and than you have to again get 
 inside of the castle to stop a mad person called Nazis who want to conquar the world with a team 
 of solder. They are half dead half alive. You have to fight through the enemy, place by place to 
 achive the goal, stop nazis from creating deadly solders. Sometime you will have a team who r fight 
 beside with you against the enemy. The enemy of this game are a little bit different. You have 
 both man and dead thing as enemy. Sometime you will see your enemy man army will fightng with the 
 evil. You have to kill both of them. The weapon of the game is also good. Every weapon can damage 
 the enemy at modarate point. But you have to select weapon wisely to kill your enemy. Thats the 
 main thing to achive goal in the game. Puzzle is not tough in this game. at least i have to say 
 that these are not puzzle lol.... For complete mission, you have to go many place from village 
 to airport. Every place was designed carefully. Sometime you have to use your stealth. This is 
 a great way to avoid many enemy. To stop them when the want to go to alarm the place. This is really 
 fun to play the game. I hope you will enjoy yourself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JOE714
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 31, 2006 12:58 pm PT
Review:  I love a good remake or revision, particularly within any medium that benefits strongly from technological 
 improvements between the time of the original and its retelling. Star Trek went from an on-the-cheap 
 TV show that was, to me, nearly unwatchable in its lo-fi cruddiness to the wonderful Next Generation/DS9/Voyager 
 series, as well as the impressive Kirk- and Picard-led movies. The movies and later shows were 
 able to expand their settings and raise the quality of their spacefaring paraphernalia above the 
 level of cheesy re-painted hairdryers and glittery green makeup through the burgeoning field of 
 digital animation (plus, it should be noted, some much better writing and acting) . However, those 
 early episodes were essential in establishing the appeal of Roddenberrys universe, even if the 
 shows awful mechanics werent enough to garner a wide audience; without them, TNG and the like 
 could certainly still exist, but they might lack a level of significance that stems from the storys 
 history.
  
  Which is all just to say that Return to Castle Wolfenstein stands alone as a remarkably fun and 
 detailed game, but is all the more beautiful in the eyes of those who can compare it to the appealing 
 but incredibly low-tech Wolfenstein 3D. In ten years, the Nintendo-style sound effects and spare 
 animation of early sprite-based FPS titles evolved into surround sound and exemplary modeling. 
 Blaskowiczs backstory jumped from a cursory bit of fiction told through readme files and onscreen 
 crawls to a cinematic introduction and periodic updates expressed through the heros handlers back 
 at HQ. The weapons found in and around Wolfenstein are plentiful, allowing for a lot of strategic 
 variety through both realistic and fanciful damage-dealers. While the combat skills of Wolfensteins 
 Nazi menace are, by now, quite commonplace to fans of Medal or Honor or Call of Duty, the remakes 
 ghoulish Lopers and Uber-Soldats help to differentiate the remakes appeal from the other WWII-style 
 shooters with a soup&ccedil; on of survival horror.
  
  RtCWs gameplay is primarily of the run-and-gun variety, although the designers incorporated a 
 few stealth segments. On many levels, sneaking pays off in that the player is more likely to overhear 
 the often entertaining  although mostly meaningless  conversations that abound between various 
 henchmen. The areas that absolutely require the player to remain unseen and unheard are thankfully 
 brief and not very difficult. The combat scenarios, on the other hand, are positively brutal on 
 RtCWs Hard setting; I spent several hours and quickloads slowly gaining ground through Deathsheads 
 X-Labs and enjoyed every white-knuckled minute of it. On the other hand, the game is a cinch on 
 the Medium setting, although its comparatively more enjoyable, with a more solid narrative flow 
 thanks to fewer reloads and less backtracking for health packs.
  
  As someone who thoroughly enjoyed the original Wolfenstein and Doom on my old 486 PC, I can attest 
 that the impact of ten years of advances in both computer technology and FPS game design on either 
 remake is nothing short of euphoric. Return to Castle Wolfenstein incorporates much of the hard-won 
 knowledge gathered by multiple game designers over a decade into what makes for a good FPS game. 
 The remake itself is already halfway through its own decade of life, at the end of which I would 
 certainly like to see another anniversary edition that employs similar industry-wide innovations. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jelle_schepens
Rating: 6.9
Date: Oct 30, 2006 1:46 pm PT
Review:  you think because it's free it's stupid, no not at all, free fun that's how i would descripe the 
 game, not the best graphics or sound or gameplay, but it's some old-school fun you know just download 
 it from the main server of activision or something because it's a nice game with lot's of decissions 
 you have to make in wellfair of the game, you can choose between engeneer, medic, ammo-suplier, 
 ..... between lot's of guns and equipment suited for you rank and job, ... have fun, but rember
 
  this is an pretty old game but this means you have a overflow of maps and mods, not always fun, 
 because you need to download at every server 
::::::

::::::
UserName: game_god_
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 21, 2006 10:05 am PT
Review:  Well, i just got done being at a LAN party where return to castle wolfenstein was one of the premiere 
 games that we played, and as a matter of fact, im still here... i breifly played the solo mode 
 and it was pretty nice, the whole feel of it is very traditional and the fighting is very nice 
 as well. the only thing i wasn't very happy with was that the range combat, atleast in the campaign 
 mode, was kinda crappy because it took quite a while to finally hit someone from long range, if 
 you even did, usually you have to get close enough to hit. But all in all, this is a very good 
 war simulator and for someone who likes to play WW2 simulators, or even jus 1st person shooters, 
 should probably check this out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: filaria
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 6, 2006 9:22 pm PT
Review:  Wolfenstein by current standards is still pretty good stuff especially in the graphics department 
 also the sound is very good if run it on high and all this on a 32mb video card and 128mb ram. Any 
 way if you look at the models in the cutscenes u know this game is old pretty old. The weapons are 
 ver ycool except for the mp40 which looks like a toy. This game focuses on a sci-fi aspect of world 
 war 2. U chiefly deals with behind the enemy line missions. The stealth action is pretty good. The 
 german accent is such that it really bores the crap outta me. The game definiitely offers some tough 
 gameplay situations but the ending was really dissappointing. The graphics are once again pretty 
 good. It does have some several breakable environments which are fun to break. The mg42 is major 
 league crap. There are however no vehicles which u can drive nor any artillery weapons that u can 
 man. There is lot of gore throughout the game and many creations off the mind of mad german scientists 
 that includes zombies and very many other weirdos. Levels are mostly different though at times I've 
 felt seriously bogus. U may wanna try this out just fpr the different ww2 outlook. Music is bit dissappointing. I 
 think this is the only kind of shooter of it's type with reference to the story. Worth a shot. Achtuuuuuuuuuung!!!!!!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gilillo
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 18, 2006 8:11 am PT
Review:  RTCW is one of the best FPS ever. It really enlarge the name of its predecessor, the first FPS 
 ever. The graphics are incredible, the FX's are great, and very inmersive. The music is really excellent, 
 always according to the circumstances and emotion of the moment.
  
  The history of the game takes places in 2nd WW, but this time Nazis are trying to revive and ancient 
 demon to use it like a super weapon and win the war. In the beginning of game, your missions are 
 simple, you stars trying to escape from a prison, later you will have more difficult missions and 
 you will entering in several aspects of the history. You will confront super soldiers, zombies, 
 and many others enemies. The difficulty of the game is perfect, and you'll be able to adjust it 
 to your own abilities. Even if you are a novice or an expert in FPS, you'll find many entertainment 
 in this game. Perfect to finish it with out boring. The AI, of your enemies is good, but after 
 playing several hours maybe you will understand it.
  
  The guns are great, you will have from a simple knife to a flamethrower and other supertoys. My 
 preferred one, the sniper, with this weapon you can clean the place before enter in. As you finish 
 your missions you'll find new weapons every time more powerful. You'll discover that with every 
 enemy is better to use some weapon.
  
  Finally, RTCW is an incredible game. I highly recommend it. For me is one of the best FPS ever. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jubileedoo
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 10, 2006 4:19 pm PT
Review:  I'm a first-person shooter player all the way, baby, and Return To Castle Wolfenstein is one of 
 the best, keeping good company with all the Doom games, Duke Nukem, Shadow Warrior, Medal of Honor 
 Series, Thief, etc. I haven't played anything more recent than RTCW/GOTY, so I've gotta find the 
 latest entry. Suffice it to say, it has very few problems, it's easy to navigate, there aren't 
 too many weapons to keep track of, the player's movements aren't too hard to negotiate, and the 
 game is fairly linear. I particularly enjoyed fighting the Uber Soldats, and the big boss. For 
 first-person action, it's so much fun that I've played and replayed it probably ten times now anyway. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andilosha
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 30, 2006 10:00 am PT
Review:  Long enough, great tilt of events, nice ammo, great loading, you can't tell it's a 2001 game unless 
 you see the credits, frightening sometimes (not for me though!) Makes you anxious to play it next 
 time, some parts are just too hard, for example Henry is like he has 999 souls, makes you feel 
 really gooood when completed a mission. Has an exaggerated but nice story, (without the fact that 
 you saved the world and thinks kids are told to get asleep) and I am not sure if this is the best 
 military game I've played, but I know for sure that it was worth. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rambolito
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 28, 2006 6:37 am PT
Review:  This is a must-play for all who've played all previous Wolfenstein games. Compared to other games 
 that were brought out in the same year as RtCW it most certainly is not the best or most innovative 
 game. But to it's predecessors it's a complete turn about! Highly detailed environments, good AI, 
 pleasant game play and no more enemy flooding.
  
  The rich levels, though linear, are enjoyable by spying on your opponents and, listening to what 
 they talk about and then, what I like to do, give 'm a nice head shot! There are times that sneaking 
 won't work and the good old  is really 
 a great relief.
  
  The further you get the 'darker' the enemies become: Skeletons, mummies, demons and other sorts 
 of your not very average playground visitors.
  
  If you are a fan of multi-players be sure to to download "RtCW - Enemy Territory", it's for free! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: surag198
Rating: 5.6
Date: Aug 6, 2006 12:05 pm PT
Review:  This game is not the best.... here's why.
  
  Single Player mission wise, the story is linear. You do little than shoot at the bad guys and finish 
 each mission. Not too much variation takes place in the game. However, the levels never seem to 
 repeat themselves as you go from castles to dungeons to forested areas to arctic lands. Problem 
 is, while each level initially enthralls you it quickly dies away. Characters are limited in interactivity. 
 Mostly you shoot at them with teh occasional good guy providing information. Not only that, but 
 larger areas, such as the forested place are so underpopulated that after completing the mission 
 you feel a little underwhelmed. 
  
  Graphically, and soundwise this game is great considering that its a 2000 game. It still rivals 
 some games out there right now, but still.... it didnt make up for the fact that I felt that I didnt 
 do much.... afterwards, i felt like throwing it away.
  
  multiplayer would have been great, but last time i checked not too many people were around, probably 
 because its outdated. 
  
  Overall, it has a very linear experience with little replay value and feels like a game you've 
 already played before albeit with good graphics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flipkip
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 5, 2006 12:54 pm PT
Review:  Wolfenstein: Enemy Territory (W: ET) is really the best shooter and the best free game i've ever 
 played. even though the graphics aren't really up to date any more, and i'll tell y'all why:
  - the gameplay, that's just awesome. u have five classes, but unlike in games like BF2, here, u 
 really need a handful of every class to complete the objective in the map. 
  
  the engineer must build bridges/repair the vehicles and blow up something, but he can also place 
 mines, to kill enemy that want to enter that area, while the medics revive him and his teammates 
 and dispatch health boxes to restore health. 
  
  then the covert ops can blow up some things with satchel charges, make smoke screens, and steal 
 clothes of the enemy, so they can infiltrate in the enemy base. of course, they can also kill from 
 long range with a sniper rifle.
  
  and then u also have the field ops, who dispatches ammo crates and calls in artillery/air strikes.
 
  
  and last but not least, the soldier, the muscle of the team. with a panzerfaust (bazooka-like thing) , 
 flamethrower, mg-42 (machine gun) and a mortar, u can kill in a lot of ways, but u will make a lot 
 of kills
  - the objectives, those are really made so that people need to work together so the get an engineer 
 at the objective and give him the time to place the dynamite.
  well, that's about everything i wanted to tell, and what makes the game unique and superb awesome. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brandmon
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 1, 2006 8:43 am PT
Review:  RTCW is one of the best FPS to date. It features acceptable grapphics for today running at smooth 
 and stable FPS every time. It has a solid single player where it has many things all FPS games 
 previusly had , like Secret Areas , Stealth , breakable objects and etc. The game is enjoyable 
 all the way. You will have about 15-20 hours with the SP and you may want to play again some of 
 the Missions you liked from the Autosaves.
  But the realy part that shines the game is gthe Multiplayer , its uniqe , class based , team based 
 and fun. Its always Axis vs Allies in some awsome maps like Beach map and more. Its a game to buy 
 these days as its turning really cheap. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dennie64
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 11, 2006 3:19 pm PT
Review:  What do you want to do after a hard day at the office? Right, shoot some freakin' people! Multiplayer 
 is revolutionary! I've never seen a multiplayer that is that solid while being packaged along with 
 a singleplayer version that's just as good. Only because it's based on a modified Quake engine 
 (id software) you can see it's becoming dated. I'm quite disappointed tough in the reloading of 
 the weapons and the textures, it's not quite realistic as I hoped, but then again, that's the Quake 
 enigne, which does a rather good job of rendering all of the magnificent graphics in Wolfenstein. 
 My guess, instant classic, you'll keep on playing the multiplayer! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gabi67
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 10, 2006 11:57 am PT
Review:  If i would have to characterise this game in a few words i would have to say that it's a war/fantasy 
 shooter. The bigger role in this game plays the war but the paranormal happenings kick in right 
 at the perfect moment.
  
  Its a very unique shooter, great graphics, a good story line, much fantasy for a war shooter and great 
 guns. You will be the hero saving the day over and over just like in any other shooter. The places 
 you will find you're self in are great, very nice to explore, the visuals contributing very much 
 to the success of this game.
  
  You enter the role of a soldier that at the beginning plays its role in the war just like any other 
 one. Step by step you are put in much more difficult situations witch you will have to pass, but 
 don't worry, because the guns get better too so it won't be to hard.
  
  The sound is very good to, contributing as well to the atmosphere of the game. The boss monsters 
 are the trickiest part of the game but if you're careful and reach them with a full inventory and 
 life then it won't be that hard. You might even enjoy the boss monsters. I know i did. Well, not all 
 of them, but Heinrich was amazing. You'll see what im talking about at the right time.
  
  I enjoyed this game a lot and im giving it a thumbs up, no doubt. If you want a shooter thats interesting 
 an innovating, you've found it.
  It even has a great multi player, so you should give that a try to. I played it for quite a few times 
 in multi player and it was really fun.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kingmike1980
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 5, 2006 3:12 am PT
Review:  Review: Return to Castle Wolfenstein (RTCW) game of the year edition
  
  System requirements:
  All current TE members rigs will play this... nuff said! 
  
  The Review:
 
  
  My Take: The game that got me into the genre (fps) . I am a relatively new gamer, started in late 
 2000 only, and RTCW was only the second original game I bought, (first being Max Payne) . Its been 
 many years since, but RTCW always holds a place special. Great and continuously gripping story 
 that really involved you, good graphics, and last and most importantly the tight gameplay made 
 this game worthy of a place on Vandys best of all time list. It joins a select few games that 
 Ive really enjoyed and just couldnt get enough of!
  
  The Game & the Story:
  A first person shooter set in 1945, Germany, plays you as William J Blaskowitz or agent Blaskowitz, 
 as hes known. A covert operator whos comfortable behind enemy lines, where espionage is his primary 
 goal. You start imprisoned in castle Wolfenstein, then escape, and have to blaze your way to safety, 
 err. relative safety. 
  The very purpose of your mission is to uncover info about what the Nazis are up to around castle 
 Wolfenstein, all you know is there are a couple of large dig sites, where the Germans have been 
 excavating god knows what.
  
  As the game unfolds gradually you discover the Nazis are using dark magic and trying to revive 
 a 1000 year dead King, Heinrich Himmler who they plan to use to turn the tide of war. As a retinue 
 to Heinrich, they are also creating Super Soldiers, in their top secret bio labs. Add some weapon 
 research thrown in on the side and you have a recipe for disaster, for the allied powers that is. 
 Stopping all of this is what you are tasked with doing, the stuff that makes heroes!
  
  Your enemies throughout the game will include German soldiers, undead (from all the artifact digs) , 
 and later on more powerful troops utilizing more powerful guns. You also get to lock and load with 
 a few Super Soldiers, wholl give you more than a fair run, although these are few and far between. 
 Youll also face some tough albeit hot looking females, Helga Von Bulows personal guard. Then 
 there are the mutants and failed experiments in the Norway labs, a very god mix of baddies I say.
 
  
  Whats special is the actual way in which the game plays. The action is very real, very involving 
 and tactical as well. Just running guns blazing will get you nowhere. You even have silent weapons 
 for a stealthy take down. Blaskowitz has a formidable arsenal, ranging to some 11 weapons, and 
 guns like the venom gun (which you will be tasked with stealing, along with one blueprint) can 
 virtually chew your enemies to pieces. 
  
  A multiplayer is also included with some decent maps, reminiscent of the single player campaign, 
 but really this is one game that you will enjoy better solo, the single player experience is enough 
 to make a believa outta you!
  
  The Levels:
  
  Level diversity is good, with a good visual mix as well. Each level also blends in very well gameplay 
 wise to the previous one, so you always feel that youve actually just accomplished a mission and 
 gotta keep up the good work by moving on and achieving the next set of goals. You will find a large 
 variety of environs to explore, from the castle, to catacombs, to an airstrip, the town of Kugelstadt, 
 the X labs in Norway and even a submarine bay. 
  
  Mission goals are also very diverse, perhaps one of the best. One of my favorites is silently taking 
 down 5 key German officials who are all in one village, for the occasion of the resurrection of 
 King Heinrich. Another favorite, sabotaging the U2 rocket facility underground, causing the warhead 
 and its launch assembly to get destroyed. Youll find the action very hot throughout, with the 
 Nazis fanatically huntin youre a##, at times youll need to sneak, and at times its flat out 
 shoot, duck n reload n repeat. 
  
  The Graphics & Sound:
  
  Graphics and sound were some of the best of their time. Wolfenstein was all about being alone, 
 and taking up the gauntlet, shooting your way through levels, going sneaky when it was required 
 of you. The game used an enhanced Q3 arena engine, and featured great looking interiors and even 
 better looking exteriors. Weapon effects were pretty good too, both visually as well as aurally. 
 Weapon recoil and feedback too was very good, the weapons actually reminiscent of what was used 
 in WW2. 
  
  Weapon sound was also one of the highlights, a machine pistol (the MP40) actually sounds like its 
 original snarl. Gore level has been kept down with RTCW and youll rarely see blood, a bit of an 
 irritation really when you want to see those fascist pigs bleed. 
  
  Extro:
  
  IMO one of the must plays of all time. A game that changed the way I played, and to some extent 
 made me a bit of a hardware freak as I can now lay claims to being. Gameplay was its strongpoint, 
 the variety and objectivity of missions another strong point, backed up by a more than adequate 
 graphical and sound experience. 
  Play this game, you really need to. Doesnt matter if its half a decade old; play it, and youll 
 have the distinction of playing one of the genre defining masterpieces this side of the Y2K! 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: beavisbond
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 4, 2006 11:12 am PT
Review:  Wolfenstein 3D was the first FPS game and it took the world by a big surprise. Then the even more 
 popular game Doom was released just a year later than Wolfenstein 3D. 9 years later had came and 
 Id had finally decided to bring back the Wolfenstein title again. And they certainly did well with 
 it.
  
  Gameplay = 10/10 --- I remember the first time playing this game. Soon as I tried it, I was addicted 
 to it. Id does make really great games probably one of my favorite game companys that's out there. 
 The gameplay in R. T. C. W. is pretty simple to figure out, just a run 'n' gun type. And the controls 
 in the game is well thought out!
  
  Graphics = 9/10 --- This game does have great graphics. It's probably not perfect now, but it was 
 when the game was released. Doom 3 was first being developed around the time this game was released. 
 And look at that game, I don't think that game will never get any negatives about the graphics. 
 But compare R. T. C. W. to the original Wolfenstein 3D, yeah, it improved a lot over the years!
  
  Sound = 10/10 --- I remember having to crank the bass up on my speakers, so I could hear how 
 good the gun while firing it! I thought it was cool. And it still is. This game has a bunch of 
 different sounds to it. Even the background music to this game is good!
  
  Value = 8/10 --- R. T. C. W. shows how good a sequel can do. And 9 years after Wolfenstein 3D is a 
 long time for a sequel. Which I think it's worth to have for waiting all that time.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt = 9/10 --- This is all I have to say about it, that this game does have great reviews 
 about it.
  
  Overall, if your looking for something good, this game is highly recomended! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JaMMiE_D
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 28, 2006 6:26 am PT
Review:  Wolfenstein is one of those games. Its perfect in every single way. The story keeps you playing 
 until you finish, and then once you finish, you can get addicted to the multiplayer! Perfect!
 
  The single player story is a dark one. You are a secret Killing machine, whos identity must be 
 withheld at all costs. You are on a mission when you are suddenly held captive at a Nazi Fort - 
 Castle Wolfenstein.
  You wait until the next guard comes along, and you stab him in the back. Grabbing his gun, you 
 make a flea for the exit. These first few levels are fast. Then you enter the village below the 
 tall walls of wolfenstein. The speed begins to slow down, to a silent and stealth kind. In the 
 village, you are equiped with secret weapons - a silent sten gun. From then onwards, you can kill 
 in an instant. After your rearming, you go in search of the Catacombs. These terrifying graves are 
 filled with the ressurected dead. Somthing is seriously not right... So you will have to buy the 
 game in order to find out what, because I have rambled on too much!
  This is why wolfestein owns the competition. It has everything. There are missions that will suit 
 everyone, from the brave (catacombs) , to the silent (Forest base) , to the futuristic (X-labs) and 
 finally to the purekilling (every-other-level) . And the missions are not 100% simple, like the 
 other games released at the same era. It is very easy to get lost in the levels, and then you have 
 to perform operations which are purely challinging. Another few difficult things are the secret 
 areas, which can range from just a locker, to a coded Burial room. As for the rest of the gameplay, 
 it all the proven stuff. Like Boss levels, cinematics and increased difficulty of enemies.
  The gameplay is the biggest reason to buy the game, and if you are not sure, just download Enemy 
 Territory for a small sample of the gameplay style. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BJPOV235
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 22, 2006 12:52 pm PT
Review:  By far the GREATEST first person shooter - EVER. I highly RECOMMEND this AWESOME game. It will 
 ROCK your WORLD. It's my contention that 'Return to Castle Wolfenstein' is a MASTERPIECE. This 
 game, LADIES & GENTLEMEN, has set NEW standards for which every developer must strive for - PERFECTION. 
 Once the player configures the game, it EXPLODES from the beginning. The arsenal employed is AMAZING. 
 The story line will live you BREATHLESS. There are MANY levels in this game & the HIGHER up you 
 go, the HARDER they become (NO DOUBT) . This game has SOMETHING for EVERYONE. It will AMAZE you. 
 It will ASTONISH you. It will SHOCK you. It will MAKE you MAD. It will MAKE you WANT to KILL these 
 GERMANS & tear them APART. And once the game is completed, you'll want to PLAY it over AGAIN & 
 AGAIN & AGAIN. This game will NEVER get old & this game will NEVER die - PERIOD!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mclazyj
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 9, 2006 4:48 pm PT
Review:  Return to Castle Wolfenstein is a successor to the old-school favorite of the same name. Having 
 to follow up elder statesman like the original Castle Wolfenstein is a tough task to pull off, 
 but this game is more than successful at pulling it off and bringing the game into the modern era 
 of 3D acceleration and gameplay.
  
  The game sits you in the shoes of B. J. Blazkowicz, a special forces soldier that was asked to infiltrate 
 the infamous Castle Wolfenstein and find out what the Germans are up to. Unlike the first game, 
 you actually escape the Castle, because being trapped in one location for the entire game would 
 not sate peoples appetites nowadays. So the game takes you on seven missions that are broken up 
 into several parts. Each mission will begin with several goals that have to be completed before 
 you can leave out the exit path. The game also has some old school charm in the fact that they 
 give you the time it took to finish and how many treasure and secret areas you have found. 
  
  Story was normally an afterthought in most id Software, but after Half Life was released by 
 Valve, story became a top priority for game developers. So in a nice surprise, Raven took up the 
 reigns on this classic and crafted a pretty good story to wrap the action around. It mixes in all 
 the elements that were known about the Third Reich, like searching for the occult, strange new 
 technologies and super hot leather clad women. What do you mean that the Nazis didnt use super 
 hot, leather cladded women? Okay, so maybe some liberties were taken with the game, but it felt 
 like it could have been historically grounded in fact. Digression aside, you are tasked with finding 
 what you can about the Nazis trying to resurrect the dead in a quest to bring back a great leader 
 from 983 AD. This task will take you through several different areas and several mission types. 
 They even mix in some stealth missions which is a strange inclusion for an action game of this 
 type, but it works.
  
  Graphically, the game is fairly sound. Comparing it against the competition at the time, it lead 
 the pack. Things like flame effects or explosions are a grandeous display and take full advantage 
 of the most powerful cards of the day. The locations themselves are drab by nature, but for anyone 
 that has seen footage and pictures of WWII, this is the way it should look. The graphics present 
 a dismal reality of war, with its broken buildings and twisted wreckage while contrasting it with 
 the opulence of the German empire. The character models are nice, but not overly special. They 
 look nice, but tend to be repetitive. It is not a good thing when you have to complain about seeing 
 the same leather clad Nazi specialist again. They do the job, but just seem a little underwhelming 
 in comparison to the realistic background areas they are placed in.
  
  Sound is really up to snuff in this game. Weapons sound large and have an authoritative sound. 
 The first time you fire off an MP-42, you will be reaching to turn down the volume on your speakers. 
 And all the weapons are like this, no tinny sounds anywhere. Voiceovers are far and few between, 
 but they all use solid and believable German accents. They do give you the sense of being in Germany. 
 Ambient sounds are a mixed bag. There is a level that takes place in a foggy area of the game and 
 the squak of the occasional bird and slight sway of trees makes is seem uber creepy and will keep 
 your head turning throughout the level. But most levels are not like this and it is a shame. Most 
 are pretty quiet without any real background noise that I noticed. You would think in some of the 
 more war torn areas of the game, you would hear occasional gun fire or planes, but I rarely heard 
 either. It just seemed a bit weird.
  
  Weapons in the game are top notch and you get a lot of ways to kill your opponents. Anything from 
 a simple Lugar pistol to a hulking chaingun, you will get to dish out pain with style. And the 
 Flamethrower is a great weapon, not so much as to kill, but just to watch. The way is sprays fire 
 is a pretty impressive feat.
  
  The game does offer a lot of replay value with multiplayer support and the modders have hit this 
 game hard with hundreds of maps, skins and other items for online play. It is not hard to get into 
 a match and with punkbuster being added with patch 1.3, it takes a lot of the rampart cheating 
 out of the game.
  
  There are no real flaws in the game. Sometimes, AI gets a little botched up and I had some issues 
 with floating corpses or gunfire killing me through doors, but it was mostly a hiccup free affair. 
 There are some hacks to get this game running in widescreen format, but they can crash your game 
 at the end of the level if you do not do them properly, so that could be a big downer to finish 
 a hard level only to have the game crash. You cannot fault this on the game, because it was never 
 made to handle 1920x1200 resolution. No spoilers here, but after the time you put into the game, 
 you may feel a bit let down with the light ending. People have come to expect more out of the end 
 of their gaming experience and this one just left me feeling a little more could have been done.
 
  
  So, Return to Castle Wolfenstein is a worthy successor to a long storied franchise. It gives you 
 a good story that puts some of the stranger history into the game, while not bogging the player 
 down in too much exposition. Multiplayer expands the game to give endless replay value. Snap this 
 game up in the bargin bin as it is a blast to the gut again and again.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: C0deZer0
Rating: 8.2
Date: Apr 25, 2006 4:11 pm PT
Review:  Back in the early 90s Id Software developed a game that would change the entire future of gaming. 
 They brought to our plate the first FPS, Wolfenstein 3D, which was based off of the Apple II game, 
 Castle Wolfenstein. In Wolfenstein 3D, you played as an army soldier by the name of BJ Blazkowicz, 
 the game found you escaping your prison cell and taking on hordes of Nazis. Following suit of the 
 previous game, Return to Castle Wolfenstein is the sequel to the grand daddy of FPS games.
  
  This time around, there is much of a story to be heard, and you now have full and complete 
 objectives to proceed with. You and another Agent are sent into enemy territory to uncover a plot 
 involving paranormal activity. You are captured and taken to Castle Wolfenstein. Following the 
 previous game, you lure a guard to your cell and thus begin your mission. In Return to Castle Wolfenstein, 
 you are treated to some fairly long levels, but by no means do they get old or too repetitive. 
 There is actually a very nice variety of levels and themes. In one level you will find yourself 
 in the torture chambers of Castle Wolfenstein, and then on another level you will be in a genetic 
 mutation lab. The levels are very well done, and even sometimes feel like they have a life of their 
 own. In some of the earlier catacomb levels you will be treated to atmospheric fog, and hear moans 
 and groans of undead creatures lurking further down the road. Also, there are a few neat traps 
 that wait for you. 
  
  The story is actually very interesting, and will put some meaning to your missions. While its 
 not the best storyline ever put into a game, it is indeed a fair one. Unfortunately, this time 
 around you will not get your chance to fight a super cyber Hitler. While you may not be able to 
 fight Hitler, you will fight a horde of enemies like SS soldiers, elite guards, all the way to 
 uber soldats which are huge robotic soldiers who make the screen literally shake when they walk.
 
  
  The enemies are very worthy opponents and will actually give you a challenge on the hardest difficulty 
 setting. The AI in question is not a complete moron, and will often times give you a run for your 
 money. Enemies will act accordingly, you will see them take cover, rush you, and even kick grenades 
 back at you at times. One little tidbit I was impressed with was when a guard would open a door 
 that I was zeroed in on. If I started firing, they would fall back until I was reloading, then 
 assault me while I was vulnerable. The only major problem I could see with the AI, was the fact 
 that the soldiers didnt seem to notice when they would walk by one of their dead partners, that 
 takes a little fun out of things. Other small goofy things you will notice with enemy soldiers 
 is things like how they respond to getting hit. While in reality you would cower in pain, these 
 guys dont seem to notice. You will unload full clips into your victims and you wont notice until 
 they fall over dead. Also, on enemies like the Paratroopers, if you are sniping them, itll take 
 2 shots to the head to take them down. The first shot will only make them laughingly jump off the 
 ground while they are still taking pot shots at you.
  
  Return to Castle Wolfenstein offers you a huge array of weapons to use against your foes. Some 
 weapons like the Thompson machine gun, or the MP40 are taken from the history books, you will find 
 yourself using experimental weapons like the Venom chaingun, or the Tesla gun. Most of the Axis 
 weapons you will pick up actually share the same ammo, so using an MP40 or a Sten silenced gun, 
 they will share the same caliber ammo. While that is very plausible, it can sometimes get a little 
 annoying when you are starting to run short of ammo, and need to use the next gun on your list. 
 As with prior FPS games, BJ can carry each and every single weapon he finds, no matter how heavy 
 they would be, or impossible to carry, so you will never be restricted to 3 weapons and have to 
 drop others. One nice little feature is sniping in this game. You will be able to pick off unsuspecting 
 soldiers at a distance, and with a silenced rifle, you can keep yourself hidden. While sniping, 
 your crosshair will be all over the place, a meter on the side will eventually drop, showing that 
 you are more relaxed, and you will be able to take a clean shot.
  
  Sound wise, the game can really hold its own. The games sounds such as gunshots, explosions, footsteps, 
 ricocheting bullets, groan of creatures and so on can really give you the feeling of pure adrenaline. 
 Simply put, the sound is very well done. Things like gun fire, and screen shaking explosions add 
 to the tension. Even a sniper in the distance will sound muted, but echo through the level, adding 
 a very nice element to the sound. The voice acting is even convincing. While the voice acting is 
 convincing, one loss that really made Wolfenstein 3D so engaging is the fact that the Germans no 
 long speak German. In Wolfenstein 3D, you were treated to guards yelling and screaming in German 
 if they were alerted or killed. Now, you will hear them yell in English with German accents. The 
 music is another treat to the sound. As you play the music will be fairly mellow, at least until 
 some action kicks in, or an alarm is triggered! The music then kicks up and you will then feel 
 the rush of some really energetic music. Also, as you go from place to place, you will hear a radio 
 on, with some classical music, and even the song used for the original theme to Wolfenstein 3D.
 
  
  Graphically speaking, the game can hold its own, even today. For a game developed in 2001, the 
 graphics were far superior to a lot of games out. The intro to the game is actually very cinematic 
 and can even rival games developed today. While things like explosions and fire are done well, 
 some things are lacking. For instance, the models are extremely ugly up close. The textures blend 
 heavily and some guys look like they are missing eyes. But creatures nearing the end of the game 
 will come at you from the fog with glowing eyes, keeping the graphics clean enough to give you 
 the goose pimples when you see that. While the graphics arent the greatest thing in this game, 
 it manages to still give a good presentation.
  
  Return to Castle Wolfenstein is a very worth sequel to one of the most revered games in history. 
 While it is not as hard as the game could be, even on the hardest setting, it will still give you 
 10 hours or more of gameplay. Almost everything included in this game will add to the experience 
 and must not be missed. To anyone who has played Wolfenstein 3D, and loved the experience, do yourself 
 a favor and play Return to Castle Wolfenstein, its an experience you wont soon forget.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DangerD00m
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 19, 2006 10:50 pm PT
Review:  Return to castle wolfenstein is an excellent shooter that is worth picking up for the multiplayer 
 alone. The online play is the best feature of the game, and because of the online play youll play 
 till the wee hours of the night. Now after beating the single player, i felt like it was lacking 
 singl player really isent that great but the story is excellent and youll want to beat it beacuse 
 of it. The graphics are decent and the way the blood stains the wall is cool. One of my complaints 
 is the sound. There is NO MUSIC when your playing wich kinda sucks. but the german voice acting 
 is good and the guns sound realistic, so in the end wolfenstein is an excellent game though its 
 better online 
::::::

::::::
UserName: woef
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 7, 2006 5:23 am PT
Review:  This is one of those FPS games you MUST have.
  It is a amazing game!!!
  
  Gameplay:
  Good and smooth, lots of weapons, challenging enemies.
  Large maps and good variety in maps.
 
  A story, which makes the game more realistic.
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics look very good and the engine runs very good.
  Everything looks great ingame!
 
  
  Sounds:
  Good, weapons sounds are a bit fake though, but that doesnt matter.
  (I like to hear the venom rolling again in the next rctw) .
  
  Value:
  Very good, both multiplayer 
 as singleplayer.
  
  Variety:
  Again very good, havent seen so much variety in any game.
  
  Online:
  Excellent, team based 
 multiplayer, what else do you want.
  
  That is my review for RCTW (tm)
  LaterZZZ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zoostyle
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 6, 2006 11:01 am PT
Review:  One of the greatest masterpieces ever to be done about WWII! Could have been the pre-cursor to 
 the whole MOH WWII fascination that happened recently!
  
  This game is plain and simple: OUTSTANDING! The graphics set up is all there, beautiful rendering 
 for soldiers, SS officers, zombies, the flags, the villages, the crypts you name it- this one's 
 got it! Beautiful flames flicker from torches in a dark underground dungeon. Shadows cast an eerie 
 darkness over objects. Thick fog and the undeads' groans come from the deep bowels of a hidden 
 pagan crypt! I played this game when it came out and it scared the hell out of me! It seems tamer 
 now but still the shock factor was there.
  
  Weapons abound in this game: From the simple dagger to the complex Tesla gun this game packs ALOT 
 of hardware and you will need pretty much ALL of it in order to get through this game. 
  
  Enemy AI is superb and they will do their best to dodge your fire. The SS Paranormal Division's 
 Elite Guard will actually do hand flips in order to get out of your range, and they look damn good 
 doing it too. Zombies are here although not a whole lot, those levels they are in are worth every 
 cent of this game. The level with the "Uber-Soldat" is a triumph and you better know you could 
 already be dead by the time you spot the first one! Ha ha ha!
  
  The Single Player campaign is what lifts this up too, as it pits you as Agent Blaszkowicz (sorry 
 if mispelled) going through level after level of superb action in awesome locales. He must fight 
 his way to find the secret of what the SS and Heinrich Himmler are up to and defeat the final opponent: 
 An undead King of immense power and strenght known as Heidrich I. The end boss level is SUPER tough, 
 get the cheat codes ready! LOL
  
  All in all I could go on but I've said enough! Awesome game! 
  
  "HALT!" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anzelm
Rating: 7.2
Date: Apr 3, 2006 2:16 am PT
Review:  This game has been around for a long time now. There has come several fps games that are better 
 than Wolfenstein by now but you still can have a lot of fun with it. 
  
  This ought to be a cheap game by now and for its price it should be worth it. Wolfenstein is a 
 challanging game and you have to work hard to get through it. 
  
  You are an allied soldier in ww2. You mission is to expose and stop the nazis attempts to create 
 a supersoldier. You get to play through ancient catacombs as well as fortresses and villages. With 
 a different set of enviorments you get a variety while you play. You get to collect a lot of different 
 weapons, all of them not so realistic. 
  
  So, if you want a good solid fps for a cheap price this might be it. Beware though, the graphics 
 is not what it is in the newer games. Its not bad merely ok. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SWEToryu
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 30, 2006 4:03 am PT
Review:  That was a while i play Wolfenstein 3D a old game which i like. Then it came Doom 1 and Doom 2 
 but i never thought it will be a new Wolfenstein. When i heard the news of the game i become so 
 interest of RTCW i could not sleep no more, i really have to play it, now i don't remember when 
 it come out but maybe 2001 or 2002 oh well whatever.... Sure i buy the game at once need to play 
 it. The start of the game is amazing. You have been captured by the germans and now they will come 
 and take you out from the prison well they think so but you surprise them and then the action begins 
 and it never stops either well until you meet the boss then all is over. The AL is great i must 
 say that, they act like a real soldier. When they see you they start the alarm and then you have 
 to begin again, well some mission are that, it shall be hard not easy, i like it when it's hard. 
 It's a great gameplay indeed it's superb, the sound is great nothing more to say about the sound, 
 graphics is really great, they have made a great job with the graphics, oh i did almost forget 
 multiplayer one of the best in the game, i really like it so many difference of multiplayer, there 
 is one i did really like it lookalike Normandy the allies shall take some papers and take it to 
 a radio room awesome try that one.... Well is more multiplayer i really enjoy. They have made a 
 wonderful job with the multiplayer...
  If you have not played this game well then you have miss something..
  These days i have heard 
 maybe shall come out a new RTCW well who knows right?... See what happens!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: klint44
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 23, 2006 6:21 am PT
Review:  When the game Spear of Destiny appeared in the stores it was a milestone for the game players 
 (me also) at that time. When I was 30 Return to Castle Wolfenstein came back and we were sure that 
 the game is prepared with exploitation of all hardware and software abilities available today. 
 But the game when I finally got it exceeded my highest expectations. This atmosphere (not only 
 WWII, but this mysterious character of Himmler and his co-operatives) . The combat, the enemies, 
 the music and of course the STORY!!! It was really amazing I walked through the game several times 
 on all difficulty levels. It was more than three years ago And last week I happened to look for 
 something in a drawer of my desk. And guess what I found! I have been playing again this brilliant 
 game for a week now 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 00chaos8
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 18, 2006 10:28 pm PT
Review:  Well, first of all this game is really intense. The arsenal of weapons you get are great. Especially 
 the venom gun and the telsa weapon, O how i love the venom chaingun. The gameplay is very similar 
 of quake 3 because well.... it uses the q3 engine so yeah. This game is based on one of the very 
 first shooters ever made, wolfenstein 3d. And wolfenstein is back with way better battles and way 
 more challenges. In wolfenstein you are a soldier name BJ and you are fighting against the nazi 
 soldiers and to prevent what hitler is creating and not to mention that you come across the undead. 
 Return to Castle Wolfenstein is a great experience shooter because of it is very challenging, the 
 intense war battles you get BJ to go through. It has most of the common things that you would expect 
 from a shooter but this game is a mixture with war and sci-fi shooter together and it makes a awesome 
 game. It has it's classic run around and shoot something kind of shooter thing too. I had to say 
 that id software did a marvelous job on this game because it intensity. It is a must buy to anyone 
 that loves war shooting games or maybe just a shooter game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nightharvest
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 17, 2006 8:24 am PT
Review:  Return to Castle Wolfenstein almost sank without trace thanks to Medal of Honor, and that is cruel 
 break. Because this is vintage gaming.
  
  It has all the elements of quality gaming. Excellent maps, considered scenarios, secret levels, 
 a great variety of weapons, an even greater (and at times humorous) variety of enemies, and solid 
 story line (OK, it goes of the radar on occasions, but always reels itself back in) and plenty 
 of action to keep one going, no matter your level of skill.
  
  Even today, the graphics stack up well. On 1280 x 1024 display it is a fast moving and pretty game 
 to play. The story is told through cut-scenes and snippets of information picked up in converation 
 or notes that lay about. The attention to detail is obvious. The sound is pretty good, but sometimes 
 the music gets in the way - but it does suit at times. 
  
  The action ranges from tradition skirmishes (with hundreds of enemies charging at you) , to stealth 
 missions and boss levels. As you go on missions uncover new and improved weapons, which are basically 
 needed at later stages of the games. The enemies, Nazi's to zombies to Nazi Chicks, back to Nazi's 
 and then a few freaks at the end. But there are plenty of them.
  
  The game has the 'feel good' tilt. It's a game where you want to play until the end and then will 
 probably go back and try and find the remaining secret levels, or up the skill level. I have dabbled 
 with Enemy Territory but mulitplayer is not my thing, but it's an excellent free download for the 
 game.
  
  And the value is hard to beat, I purchased this for AUS$6.50 new and put 20+ hours into it. I enjoyed 
 almost all of it. There doesn't seem to be to many single players maps / mods, but the game is 
 certainly replayable.
  
  This comes highly recommended. It's a game that has stood the test of time and still looks great 
 and plays well. While people are moaning and groaning as to whether DOOM 3 and Quake $ and all 
 they should be, try this on for size - and realise that ID are always going to have a hard act 
 to follow. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: abima
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 14, 2006 2:00 am PT
Review:  This World War II game with a twist - the Nazis are trying to unearth ancient evil undead forces 
 - provides a superb variety of set pieces, weapons, and gameplay styles. At times it is funny, 
 at other times spooky, and at others still gleefully mischievous. It is not a particularly difficult 
 or long game, yet the multiplayer aspect makes up for the fact that you just want to play it more 
 and more, and eventually you've played through the single-player missions just too many times. 
 Actually, can't say this has happened to me yet, and I'll probably start it over from scratch again 
 tonight. Well, not tonight, because it's Valentine's Day and the girlfriend would have none of 
 that. But tomorrow night!
  Me, I like sniping, and there's plenty of opportunity for that in this game. If you prefer huge 
 gun battles with enemies coming at you from every angle, well, I suppose you could bring that upon 
 yourself if you really wanted to, by making a big noise about the fact that you were present in 
 enemy territory, but it would never attract the kind of attention it would in a Quake-like game. 
 In other words, the game involves quite a bit of sneaking around and finding the best vantage point 
 or strategy from where to take your shot. But it's not all like that. You can still run in habberdashedly 
 and get yourself killed over and over again if that's more your style.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nightmail10
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 8, 2006 9:17 am PT
Review:  Return to Castle Wolfenstein engage in combat , you have a great assortment of weapons at your 
 disposal. Your arsenal includes a knife, Colt and Luger pistols, grenade, dynamite, MP40 and Thompson 
 sub-machine guns, Sten, Mauser, Snooper, and Paratrooper rifles, Panzerfaust missile launcher, 
 Venom gun, flamethrower, and Tesia electric bolt gun; for some, sniping scopes and silencers make 
 them even more versatile and lethal. The flamethrower is just awesome to behold, and is my favorite 
 weapon by far. The arms appear very authentic not only when fired but also when reloading. The 
 weapons are extremely well conceived. Also, there is a great selection of munitions, even though 
 the ones representing authentic real-world weapons seem a lot more impressive than the fantasy 
 ones.
  Also there are several ""surprises to find"" just have fun
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: krisalid
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 5, 2006 11:48 am PT
Review:  This first person shooter was maked by Gray Matter under the surveillance of Id software and for 
 the Texans is their first game on the market.
  Unfortunately, the storyline of the game and some Nazis symbols made a terrible storm in some European 
 countries ,most of it in Germany.
  A new version of RTCW appeared on the market after some minor changes were done.
  The storyline, names, flags, runes 
 were changed. At that time in Germany it was considered a crime to order or own the American version 
 of the game.
  Despite this the game was popular at that time here in Europe.
  
  Ok, so in the game you enter under the skin of B. J. Blazkovicz who works for a fictive American 
 organization called organization for secret actions.
  Surprised by a cult in the middle of a secret mission, you are kept prissonier in castle Wolfenstein.
 
  With this unpleasant picture in your head, you take on the cellar gard you were in and you will 
 go armed with a pistol and a knife to find the exit from the castle.
  On this story who has more then twenty missions, you will go even in far Norway, and short after 
 for the grand finale you will return to castle Wolfenstein.
  The backround story is pretty interesting:
  -A cult is trying to resurrect bodies to use them 
 as super soldiers. It is clear that you have to stop this madmen.
  RTCW is full of variety and you will never see a haotic battle. The idea is to have permanently 
 everything under control.
  Key words are  big guns for big enemies, strong foes must go down first; using surprise attack or 
 hiding you will have a good chance take them out.
  Every time you get spotted a alarm will be heard and soon after you will get company.
  To survive 
 in the game you will have to stay in the dark (in some missions) or the battle will be fierce.
 
  
  The graphics of the game are good but I admit the programmers of the game took out the best they 
 could with the Quake 3 engine.
  For the texture design the flew in Germany to picture walls, floors, and doors of the castles and 
 other old buildings.
  You will not need more than twenty  twenty five hours to complete the game but you will have loads 
 of fun in multiplayer mode.
  In RTCW they are 3 multi player modes and 8 maps,15 weapons (also available in single player mode) .
 
  
  RTCW is another shooter that you will encounter : wise enemies ,the atmosphere is good, and you 
 will get a tactical mission from time to time to not get bored.
  
  One thing is certain Return To Castle Wolfestein worths playing and is in my personal favorite 
 fps games list.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Buick87GNXv6
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 26, 2006 2:05 am PT
Review:  This is one of the best FPS I have ever played. Everything in the game is superb. First, let's 
 talk about the single player. It is really well done. The storyline is Hollywood like, the controls 
 barely need time to adjust to, and the grahpics are amazing (especially the fire effects) . Now let's 
 talk about what this game is really all about: it's multi-player. This is the most addicting multiplayer 
 in a game I have ever played (and trust me, I've played a LOT of them) . Everything in the MP is 
 just so well balanced. The level designs are phenomenal. There are plenty of nooks and crannies 
 to hide in and use strageticly. When you have 63 other people playing with/against you, you are 
 truly in gaming heaven. If you are a FPS fan, I HIGHLY suggest you pick this game up. If you are 
 a multiplayer fan, I also suggest you get this game. It is well worth it. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zwulith
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 24, 2006 2:58 am PT
Review:  Return to castle Wolfenstein is a re-make of the original Wolfenstein 3D in many ways, but really 
 extends the game with solid graphics, a point A to point B style of gameplay, Ok sound. The weapons 
 are a bit direct point-and-shoot like, and I cant say I was thrilled with how straightforward 
 the game was, but Return to castle Wolfenstein has a great story and is a solid remake of the classic.
 
  
  You play as B. J., an American spy who just got captured and thrown into Castle Wolfenstein. Although 
 the game starts off somewhat slow, it doesnt take long before you realize that this much more 
 than any typical WW two shooters.
  
  Your enemies are both human undead and along the way, youll run into some super biological test 
 subjects that have went very wrong, but the German Nazis are your primary enemies.
  
  Although your weaponry is mostly direct point-and-shoot stuff, you do get some cool weapons. A 
 flamethrower and Tesla, a gun that electrocutes all enemies in your path, are some of the cooler 
 ones.
  
  Return to castle Wolfenstein is a pretty tough game. The difficulty mainly comes from the fact 
 that enemies do a lot of damage to you, despite not being to smart, and while ammo is always in 
 supply, health isnt.
  
  The environments your in is somewhat varied. Youll go from a castle to a cave to a Greenland plain 
 to a missile silo to a German town and son. Later on though, the levels all start to blend together.
 
  
  The story is all about B. J. escaping Castle Wolfenstein and stopping Hitlers paranormal squad 
 from making Super Soldiers and taking over the world. The story does get more complicated, but 
 I dont want to spoil it.
  
  The sound in Return to castle Wolfenstein is pretty good. Voice acting is great, despite the ridiculous 
 German voiceovers. Weapons sounds are fair, but music really hits the spot each time a battle heats 
 up.
  
  The graphics are a hit and miss. Sometimes they look good, but the environments can be dark and 
 not to detailed. Character models are Ok, but the blood that comes out of the characters looks 
 like spray paint.
  
  Overall, Return o castle Wolfenstein isnt for everyone. Its pretty challenging, even on the easy 
 difficulty, but the story makes up for that and the point A to point B gameplay 
::::::

::::::
UserName: terryprior
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 18, 2006 10:55 am PT
Review:  
  Return to Castle Wolfenstein engage in combat with the forces of darkness, you have a great assortment 
 of weapons at your disposal. Your arsenal includes a knife, Colt and Luger pistols, grenade, dynamite, 
 MP40 and Thompson sub-machine guns, Sten, Mauser, Snooper, and Paratrooper rifles, Panzerfaust 
 missile launcher, Venom gun, flamethrower, and Tesia electric bolt gun; for some, sniping scopes 
 and silencers make them even more versatile and lethal. The flamethrower is just awesome to behold, 
 and is my favorite weapon by far. The arms appear very authentic not only when fired but also when 
 reloading. As with the rest of the design, there is nothing truly innovative here, but all the 
 weapons are extremely well conceived. Also, there is a great selection of munitions, even though 
 the ones representing authentic real-world weapons seem a lot more impressive than the fantasy 
 ones.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: differentiation
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 31, 2005 1:16 pm PT
Review:  This one had a lot to live up to, the original Wolfenstein that is. It does a good job with the 
 graphics and the storyline is more occult, so that it borders a bit on horror. Games that include 
 a bit of horror most likely will do well and it stimulates the gamer more, games such as Half Life 
 and FEAR. The gameplay isn't anything new. Basically take your old Wolfenstein 3D and upgrade it 
 to modern day, and there you have it. Because it doesn't introduce the ground-breaking material 
 that the original introduced, it doesn't score high on the innovation scale. What it tries to do 
 with the monsters come off as a bit fake though. Killing Nazis is one thing, but killing skeletons 
 are another. It doesn't follow the original very well. For example, if the original had monsters, 
 then I can understand but it didn't. Could've been much better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SZeroC
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 29, 2005 2:40 am PT
Review:  Everyone loves Game of the Year editions, what with all their nifty extras, and the opportunity 
 for you  the hard working gamer  to have to pay for a game twice to get all those nifty extras.
 
  
  So, as sure as eggs is eggs, the bane of gamers and the boon of marketing departments has extended 
 its greedy grip around id Softwares beloved first-person shooter, Return to Castle Wolfenstein. 
 Are the extras worth the cost? Read on
  
  Although all of you probably know the plot of the single player game already, Ill re-iterate here 
 to artificially lengthen my review. You are B. J. Blazkowicz, an Army Ranger recruited into the 
 uber-secret Office of Secret Actions. Your mission  should you choose to accept it  is to thwart 
 the zany and wacky Nazi Heinrich Himmlers plans to resurrect an army of 10th century undead which 
 will put an end to the Allied cause once and for all.
  
  Now we all know that nothings more fun in computer gaming then blasting Nazis to little bits. 
 Well, in Return to Castle Wolfenstein, not only do you get to blast Nazis to bits, but also you 
 get to blast fire breathing zombie Nazis! The developers even threw in some busty, spandex-wearing, 
 cart wheeling killer female Nazis for good measure. You just cant go wrong with that!
  
  Fortunately, Return to Castle Wolfensteins single player mode is as much fun as it sounds  the 
 level design is very well done, your weapon selection (mmm flamethrower) is nice, and the graphics 
 are absolutely excellent. Developer Gray Matter took everything that was good about old-school 
 first person shooters such as Doom and the original Wolf3D, and updated it with 21st century technology 
 to deliver a title definitely worthy of its pedigree.
  
  There are a few problems  for instance the obligatory stealth mission is a real pain in the 
 neck, and if you quick save in the wrong places you could find yourself having to start from a 
 previous saved game. Also, ammo can get real scarce in the zombie-infested levels, and trust me 
 when I tell you that stabbing sword-wielding skeletons with a knife isnt the most effective way 
 to dispatch them.
  
  However, those complaints are minor compared to all the things that the developers got right. Return 
 to Castle Wolfenstein is just a mix of plain-old, good fashioned fun, top-notch graphics and sounds, 
 and an atmosphere that will have you looking over your shoulder if you play late at night.
  
  Return to Castle Wolfenstein also boasts some of the most intense multiplayer action to come 
 with a first-person shooter. First off you have Objective Mode, which pits two teams (Axis and 
 Allies) against one another with specific objectives in mind such as stealing plans or defending 
 a base. This mode is an absolute blast, as you can choose between multiple classes (medic, engineer, 
 soldier, and lieutenant) as you storm the beach to invade the Nazi base (or defend the base, if 
 you wish to play as one of the Axis soldiers) .
  
  A variation of Objective Mode, Stopwatch Mode plays much the same except that at the end of every 
 round, all the players switch sides and try to achieve the stated objective faster than their opponents 
 did. Finally, youve got Checkpoint Mode, in which teams battle for control of a number of flags. 
 The first team to control every checkpoint flag is declared the winner.
  
  All of these multiplayer modes are a boatload of fun, and the action is fast and furious. Storming 
 the beach in Objective Mode plays like it comes straight out of Saving Private Ryan, and definitely 
 conveys the feeling of the speed and harshness of war to the player. Im normally not a terribly 
 big fan of multiplayer games, but Return to Castle Wolfenstein will remain on my hard drive solely 
 because of its network gaming capabilities.
  
  Lets talk a little about the goodies that come with the Game of the Year edition. First up there 
 is a Making of Return to Castle Wolfenstein video that is sure to thrill anyone with insomnia 
 who loves watching six-minute 320 x 240 AVI files. Bring your NoDoze and your eyeglasses for this 
 tour-de-force, kids! Im certain they couldve come up with a better featurette than this one, 
 which mostly consists of in-game video captures and monotone developers.
  
  Theres also a short E3 trailer, demos for Jedi Outcast and Soldier of Fortune II, and a movie 
 for the upcoming Star Trek: Elite Force 2 (which actually looks pretty cool) . Oh, and theyve thrown 
 in some wallpapers, concept art, cartoons, and screenshots as well. Nothing terribly interesting, 
 but it certainly shouldnt be considered a crime for id to have included this stuff.
  
  One of the two main additions is the WolfRadiant level-editing tool, which is about as intuitive 
 as Chinese arithmetic taught in Esperanto. That said, Ive noticed some well-done player-created 
 maps on some of the fan sites, so Im sure that there are some budding level-lords out there 
 who are willing to spend the time it takes to learn this tool.
  
  The other major addition  and, in my opinion, the much cooler one  is the inclusion of the original 
 Castle Wolfenstein 3D. I was amazed at how much fun this game still is, despite it being as ugly 
 as a box full of hairless Chihuahuas. The game ran pretty nicely on my 2GHz system (nicely meaning 
 not too fast) , and I still got a rise whenever one of those nasty Nazis yelled AIIEEEEE!!! 
 after eating lead. Some folks may have problems getting the sound to work properly, but I managed 
 to make do on my Windows ME system.
  
  Whether or not you should get Return to Castle Wolfenstein: Game of the Year Edition completely 
 depends on whether or not youve already got the original. The level-editing tools are nice, but 
 there are already level-editing tools for Return to Castle Wolfenstein available on several fan 
 sites. The inclusion of the original Castle Wolfenstein 3D is also pretty cool, but certainly not 
 worth a re-purchase.
  
  That said, if youre a fan of first-person shooters and havent got a copy of Return to Castle 
 Wolfenstein, then run  do not walk  to the nearest retail store and snatch up a copy of the Game 
 of the Year Edition for some of the best single and multiplayer gaming around. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anthonyActon
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 26, 2007 11:45 pm PT
Review:  In 1993 id Software released a genre defining game. This game was Wolfenstein 3D. Of course there 
 was shooters here and there, but none of them were as great or as revolutionary as Wolfenstein 
 3D. A year later, id Software also released Doom, another cult classic game. Now, Ten years later, 
 id software and Nerve Development have made a sequel to Wolfenstein 3D... Return To Castle Wolfenstein, 
 and what a sequel! In Return To Castle Wolfenstein, you play a US Army Ranger named B. J. Blazcowitz, 
 recruited by the Office Of Secret Actions to carry out missions of assassination , reconnaissance 
 and just plain whooping the Germans' asses. The year is 1943, and the Germans head of the SS Paranormal 
 Division, Heinrich Himmler, is conducting horrific experiments, archaeological digs and religious 
 rituals. I would just like to point out now that in reality that the Germans during WWII were religious 
 and supernatural fanatics, however a SS Paranormal Division was never made, so if you go into this 
 game expecting a super realistic WWII shooter, you will be disappointed. Elements of this game 
 are realistic, while others are fictional. Anyway, as B. J. Blazcowitz, you are sent in with British 
 Operative 'Agent One' to investigate and find out just what the hell are the German's up to? Your 
 campaign will take you all around the world and to different environments, from war torn cities, 
 tombs and cemeteries, forests, Submarine pens, Castle Wolfenstein itself and many other places.
 
  
  The graphics in Wolfenstein are pretty good. The landscapes and areas are well done. As you'd expect 
 in a war torn city, there's rubble everywhere and in the forest its thick with lush green trees 
 and bushes. Around the Castle and in Norway, it's snowing and there's snowflakes dropping from 
 the sky. The Castle interior is well done with stone blocks and the red carpets, weapons storage 
 etc looks good. There's a tram car from the castle down to the city (This game reminds me of a 
 classic Richard Burton film called 'Where Eagles Dare', set in a similar setting. The castle part 
 I mean) .
  
  The weapons in Wolfenstein are really cool. You get the basic pistols and a nice touch is that 
 you get weapons from both sides, and for WWII buffs it might be interesting to compare firepower 
 from each side (or maybe just me) . The pistols are the German Luger and the American m1911 Colt 
 .45. The submachine guns are the German MP40, the American Thompson and the English Silenced Sten 
 (which overheats if fired for too long) . Sniper rifles include a Mauser rifle which can be fitted 
 with a scope for sniping and a Snooper Rifle which has night vision and a silencer. A really neat 
 weapon which you'll be using throughout the game is a FG42 Paratrooper rifle, which only holds 
 twenty rounds, however it has is powerful and has a scope. The heavy weapons are a German Panzerfaust 
 Rocket Launcher, a Venom Chain Gun and a flamethrower.
  
  The sound in Wolfenstein is great and all the weapons look and sound authentic. Weapons fire, artillery 
 and motor fire, explosions and an epic theme set the game perfectly. Did I mention the theme is 
 epic?
  The controls for this game are pretty simple FPS controls. Multiplayer. Return To Castle Wolfenstein 
 has probably the best multiplayer experience ever. I mean it. Ever. The thing that makes Wolfenstein 
 so engaging is the team work. Lone wolfing it in Wolfenstein works, but not recommended. There 
 are four game modes, elimination, objective, stopwatch and checkpoint. Elimination is basic team 
 deathmatch. Checkpoint is where your team goes around and tries to either have all the flags at 
 the end of the match r capture them all during he game. Objective and stopwatch are where the meat's 
 at. In an objective match, both teams set out to complete. Stopwatch is the same, except at the 
 end of a match the players are swapped over to the other team. These objectives range from destroying 
 Radar stations, running up a beach similar to Omaha and transmitting the war documents from inside 
 the bunker, stealing the sacred artifacts from the Germans and destroying a V2 Rocket base. Of 
 course there are many more levels, and I would be lying if I said I didn't like any of them. There 
 are two teams. Allies and Germans. Character classes in Wolfenstein are a fantastic feature, and 
 while not new, is greatly implemented in this game. The four character classes include Soldier, 
 Medic, Engineer and Lieutenant. The Soldier is your basic killer. He can carry any weapon he wants, 
 starts with the most health and ammo. The Engineer is the most important character because he has 
 dynamite and pliers. These two tools are completely and utterly desirable in a match because to 
 compete objectives you need to destroy obstacles in the way or a specific objective. The Pliers 
 set the dynamite and repair gun emplacements. The Medic is also an important character. He revives 
 fallen comrades and gives out health packs and will generally be your best friend. Imagine surviving 
 a major firefight with barely any health left and one of your teams medics finds you and restores 
 all your health. Also the medics health regenerates. The Lieutenant gives out ammunition packs 
 and can call in airstrikes and artillery fire. He is the only person that uses binoculars in the 
 multiplayer game. So each team needs each others classes to survive, and if your team works like 
 a real squad, you will have a great time. Each team has its own uniform and weapons, though the 
 soldier can wield any of the two handed weapons as the other team. Summary: Overall, Return To 
 Castle Wolfenstein is a spectacular shooter whether you are playing online or offline. Go get it 
 now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxdemobster
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 29, 2006 2:00 pm PT
Review:  I`ve played this game the fist time about 5 years ago and I still play it. - why? Beacuse of its 
 simplicity, great story and yet beacuse of gameplay variety.
  
  The story is set in WW2, where the war was on its gratest destuctive potential. Nazi war machine 
 was beginning to weaken so Himmler and his so-called SS Paranormal Division decided to do nasty 
 things, things that could destroy us allAnyway you are B. J. Blazkowich, an American agent of Polish 
 origin, working for OSS with a mission to set the things right. And that won` probably be easyin 
 this game, you fight alone against hordes of enemies. There will be times of sneaking, assaults 
 etc. - well war type of actions. And times of horror, because you will fight the products (mutants) 
 of Nazi`s twisted and mindless science and the occult - monsters, that have arosen from the dead.
 
  
  You will have different weapons at your disposal, from silent to explosive types. But don`t think 
 that you will defeat them easy... You will also have chance to search for secret rooms, that contains 
 ammo, healt or precious gold - it gives you a feeling of Tomb Raider or Indiana Jones.
  
  The graphics is good but not so good like in HL2. But it is still alive - and the effects are 
 perfect. Peoples and monsters detail is pretty good. Sounds are even better - they are quite real: 
 for example, if you are in catacombs, then sounds are just that they have to be - it scares you 
 a lot (zombie growls for instance) .
  
  Multiplayer is really good: there is not just normal fighting, but there are other objectives to 
 take care for them and many classes, each with their own capabilities.
  
  In final conclusion, I was excited with this game and it has surrely made revolution among the 
 FPS .
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikeyjolnir
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 30, 2005 6:47 pm PT
Review:  This is a very intense game in which you have a hug selection of guns from which to choose. This 
 game takes you through a quest on overthrowing the evil experiments of the Nazi government. The 
 story behind this game is actually derived from the scientific experiments that the Nazis did on 
 the jews, but that's another story. 
  So... back to the subject.... the gameplay is great because you have a variaty of ways of infiltrating 
 the enemy territory such us: sneaking up, blowing them up with grenades, sniping them, or just 
 go in a do a Rambo style massacre. 
  The plot is just great: it gives you an explanation of what we know up to know up to now, we know 
 what's the threat, and most of all, we know what we have to do (i. e. save the world from total 
 annihilation. Most of the game is explained the extremeley good cut scenes.
  The graphics are pretty good compared to other games. This is the type of game that you can play 
 over and over again.
  Enjoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robthefox
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 27, 2005 8:42 pm PT
Review:  rtcw's single player isn't very good. But there are some things about I really like. For 1 the 
 music is instrumental and intense. The sneaking is well done though slow. But this is rtcw, the 
 best part by far is the multiplayer. RTCW's 1.0 is the best and to ad meat to the object / team 
 death match, are the various mods available at fileplanet and various places. There are 100's of 
 maps that are downloadable. The begining 6 are pretty good. MP. Beach will make you relive dday. In 
 short rtcw is a great game i still play today, even though it has dated graphics you should buy 
 it. Enemy territory doesn't have as good multipkayer but thats free if you wanna try that out too. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Voldy26
Rating: 3.5
Date: Dec 20, 2008 12:02 pm PT
Review:  This could have been a great game, but it isn't. Its main drawback is the lack of ATMOSPHERE. The 
 events of RTCW are supposedly taking place in Nazi Germany, but the game utterly and completely 
 fails to give you the feeling that you are, indeed, in Nazi Germany. First, and foremost, the uniforms 
 are all wrong. I mean, if you guys are making a game about the Nazis, the least you can do is READ 
 UP ON GERMAN UNIFORMS. Why repeat the mistakes of the first Wolfenstein? Second, some of the enemies 
 are women (one of them is even an SS-Oberfuehrer) . The Nazis did not employ women as soldiers, 
 let alone put them in charge of anything. Third, why invent an "SS Paranormal Division" when there 
 existed a REAL organization concerned with both the occult and superweapons  Ahnenerbe? This may 
 sound like quibbling, but things like that deprive the game of plausibility, and hence, of atmosphere. 
 I'm not speaking about the fact that the Germans all speak English, and their documents are also 
 in English. The "occult" side is also messed up: what, pray tell, are Egyptian symbols doing in 
 an ancient German castle? The whole game has a phony feeling about it.
  The gameplay is rather dull. The levels all look monotonous, with the exception of the "chateau" 
 near the ending (why "chateau"? are we in Germany, or in France?) which is rather beautiful. The 
 enemies are pretty much alike, including the bosses. And, to cap it all, the graphics are quite 
 unimpressive. You just have no motivation to go on playing. Summing it up, RTCW is one of the crappiest 
 games I've ever played.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jg1987
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 10, 2005 11:02 am PT
Review:  A game that brings the best of every thing together. From the old Wolfenstein 3d's secret areas 
 and atmosfere, to the bad ass enemies and it's easy to learn so new people to the genre won't have 
 a problem playing. 
  Back in the early days the game could scare the sh** out of me and i stopped playing it, but today 
 it just plain fun all the way through.
  
  I've said enough........... Rest is nothing
  
  ga ga ga ga ga ga ga ga ga ga ga ga ga ga ga ga ga ga ga ga ga ga ga ga ga ga ga ga ga ga ga ga 
 ga ga ga ga ga ga ga ga ga ga ga ga ga ga ga ga ga ga ga ga ga ga ga ga ga ga ga ga ga ga ga ga 
 ga ga ga ga ga ga ga ga ga ga ga ga ga ga ga ga ga ga ga ga 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reedler1234
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 7, 2005 4:05 pm PT
Review:  return to castle wolfenstein is a sequel to the previous game. this game takes things to the next 
 level, gameplay, graphics and the AI. there is so much in this game, its overwhelming, this game 
 shouldnt be missed by shooter fans.
  
  The story mode is a lot of fun apart from the multiplayer of course. the game has many long levels 
 which all have their own theme and each with their own share of objectives. the story mode has 
 a lot of things like breaking pictures and kicking things aswell as a melee attack and pressing 
 buttons and a lot hidden things which is good fun to find.
  
  This game is about getting from point A to point B but this game makes it a lot of fun. the enemies 
 are actually good at avoiding your shots and they are all thirsty for your blood. the games corridors 
 are all nicely done, and the enemies and weapons, this game looks one of the best ever on a PC. 
 This game also has a fair share of weapons which all do things they should do, kill. this game 
 is realistic, a few shots can kill your enemy and you of course.
  
  The multiplayer is great, one of the first team based mutliplayers ever which is a nice thing and 
 it works so well, there is so much to do in it, its also overwhelming. There are plenty of things 
 in this game that will keep you playing this for time.
  
  This game shouldnt be missed by any fans of any shooter, this game has elements of horror aswell 
 as the normal adrenaline rush you get from trying to avoid bullets and go for crucial shots. this 
 game is great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mr_pink666
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 15, 2005 2:53 am PT
Review:  While not as important as its predecessor Wolfenstein 3D, RtCW is the high water mark of the intergration 
 of intense FPS and Multiplayer gaming. It is hard to imagine what I'd been doing all those years 
 ago, if I was not playing Wolfenstein online. The singleplayer is possibly too short to call superb, 
 but multiplayer makes up for it, and then some. I would go as far as to say it was better than 
 the now venerated Counter Strike. The game has largerly fallen to the wayside by bigger titles 
 with less to offer (Max Payne, Medal of Honor, Rainbow Six to name a few) , but the impact of the 
 game is not forgotten. The game is a few years old by now but still a great play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 043030
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 2, 2005 11:02 am PT
Review:  There have been many FPS games released over the last years, and many have been dull, lifeless 
 and uninspired. However, Return to Castle Wolfenstein is a fantastic FPS, with excellent single 
 player and multi player.
  
  The story sees you, Agent Blazcowitz, travel to Castle Wolfenstein to spy on German activities, 
 as the game is set in World War II. You are captured and must escape Castle Wolfenstein, but in 
 doing so you discover a much more sinister and horrific secret...
  
  Return to Castle doesn't merely take place in Castle Wolfenstein, you travel all over the world, 
 with many different scenarios and situations. Some missions will see you fighting in war-torn streets, 
 other in laboratories over run by mutant-cyborgs.
  
  The gameplay is great, missions range from chilling, to stealthy to plain frantic. Enemies have 
 reasonably good AI, and use some good tactics. Graphics and sound are both superb, with some very 
 good music in the game's soundtrack.
  
  Multi player is also a great aspect of Return to Castle Wolfenstein, as servers can host 64 players 
 and battles become insane!
  
  Return to Castle Wolfenstein is a great game, and not to be missed by fans of the FPS genre. 
 
  
  You'll hate yourself for it.
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BillyB
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 1, 2005 10:57 pm PT
Review:  I bought this back in 2001 when it first came out... and I'm still playing it.
  The single player version of this game is very solid. It's fun to play. So fun, I've played thru 
 it twice. But the best part about this game to the multiplayer. I've been playing online games 
 ever since Doom hit the scene. This is one of the BEST I've ever player. The beach invasion map 
 is one of the best multiplayer maps EVER. The only negative point is the online play can be a bit 
 confusing at first. The game doesn't really tell you what you need to be doing. After an hour or 
 two you'll start to get a the hang of how the maps work and what you should be doing. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Epicsoldier
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 7, 2004 2:49 pm PT
Review:  Such a great game over the old version, it has changed so much, and they did such a great job of 
 it. The graphics are amazing, and the gameplay is solid, the story is great and the game will keep 
 you playing for hours and hours. It still has the simple fun of the old wolfenstein and it lives 
 up to Wolfenstein name, The graphics are some of the best, with lighting in this game that is hard 
 to compare to others, even for when this game came out, it certainly has done a very good job. 
 The mutliplayer is fun to play also. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -CitizenKane-
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 4, 2004 10:10 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the best FPS I have ever played. Everything in the game is superb. First, let's 
 talk about the single player. It is really well done. The storyline is Hollywood like, the controls 
 barely need time to adjust to, and the grahpics are amazing (especially the fire effects) . Now let's 
 talk about what this game is really all about: it's multi-player. This is the most addicting multiplayer 
 in a game I have ever played (and trust me, I've played a LOT of them) . Everything in the MP is 
 just so well balanced. The level designs are phenomenal. There are plenty of nooks and crannies 
 to hide in and use strageticly. When you have 63 other people playing with/against you, you are 
 truly in gaming heaven. If you are a FPS fan, I HIGHLY suggest you pick this game up. If you are 
 a multiplayer fan, I also suggest you get this game. It is well worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Overlord-
Rating: 10
Date: May 9, 2004 2:01 pm PT
Review:  This game has the best multiplayer I have ever encountered. It's really sad that more people haven't 
 gotten into this game, and I would blame that partly on the complexity of the mulitplayer action. 
 A lot of people will join a game and just get owned by the more experienced players who know the 
 ends-and-outs of the maps and the strategies. This game is easily the best game I have ever purchased, 
 next to Goldeneye and Perfect Dark. I am a FPS fanboy, and I love muliplayer action. If you love 
 these things too, I really hope you check this game out. It is amazing in every way, and even after 
 over 2 solid years of fragging in Wolf, I can honestly say that I would be happy to play 2 more 
 and beyond. That was the best $50 I have ever spent, and all the credit goes to the awesome team 
 that put this game together and the great community that has supported with client/server side 
 mods, a mulititude of excellent maps, and an over all wonderful experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: buckxn
Rating: 10
Date: May 9, 2003 11:32 am PT
Review:  This review pertains the the multiplayer aspect of Review to Castle Wolfenstein:
  
  It is rare that a game comes a long and changes so much about a particular genre of game. Return 
 to Castle Wolfenstein is one of them. This is not your normal frag fest. This game emphasizes team 
 work and tactical stratagies over simple getting the most kills. The winning team is not one with 
 the most kills, but rather the one who succesfully completes their objective. Normally one team 
 attacks and one team defends, so for instance, the allied are trying to steal the axis' gold and 
 get it to the get away truck, and the Axis are simply trying to prevent this from happening.
  
  The team play comes into effect when you throw in 4 distict classes players can choose from. 
 There is the soldier who can use any weapon, including the large 2 handed ones. The Lt who can 
 call in airstrikes, and mortar bombbardments; and the are also in charge of dishing out ammo to 
 the rest of the team. The combat Engineer is the third type of class. They are incharge of demolitions 
 and have TNT to blow open doors, disable radars, destroy tanks and subs, and many other uses. The 
 engineer also carries more grenades that any other class. The fourth class is the Medic. He has 
 the ability to pass out med packs to heal teammates and a morphine needle to revive fallen comrades 
 so that they may continue the fight.
  
  You will need all classes to complete any givin stage. Therefore it is imperative to stick together, 
 protect your medics, and cover eachother. If your engineer goes down before he manages to blow 
 the door to the enemy stronghold, you are going to have to wait for him to respawn and catch back 
 up to you. This adds a whole new dimension of realisim to the game not found in other FPSs. It 
 also forces you to come up with a game plan, and stick with it if you want to be successful. 
 
  
  I am not a big fan of online FPSs. However I cannot stop playing RTCW. It makes you feel as if 
 you are a part of WWII. It feels more like a real life chess game than a FPS. If you are interested 
 in WWII, stategic combat, FPSs, or team based games, go out and get this game today! You will not 
 be dissapointed. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
