-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Return to Krondor
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/rpg/returntokrondor/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec 21, 1998
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.9
Critic Score: 7.2, 21 Review (s)
User Score: 7.9, 170 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Sierra Entertainment
Genre: Role-Playing
Date:     Nov 30, 1998

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Return to Krondor may not be an epic sequel to Betrayal at Krondor, but its excellent graphics and 
 immersive plot make it an enjoyable story-driven game. 

 After an incredible series of twists and turns during development, the official sequel to one of 
 the most popular role-playing games ever, 1993's Betrayal at Krondor, has finally arrived. Unlike 
 last year's Betrayal in Antara, which was very similar in style, if not in quality, to Betrayal 
 at Krondor, the official sequel is a very different game from its predecessor. Gamers who were 
 desperately seeking a "Betrayal at Krondor 2," a game that essentially just replicated the original 
 game, may be disappointed by developer PyroTechnix's design decision to make Return to Krondor 
 a third-person-perspective game that is considerably briefer and even more linear and story-driven 
 than its predecessor. Judged on its own merits, however, Return to Krondor is an enjoyable adventure/role-playing 
 game hybrid notable for its outstanding graphics and immersive, if brief, storyline.   

 Return to Krondor, like Betrayal at Krondor, is set in author Raymond E. Feist's swords-and-sorcery 
 world of Midkemia. Both games provide strongly story-driven experiences, as evidenced by the fact 
 that they are divided into "chapters," during which the plot is advanced in a very linear, predetermined 
 fashion. Similarly, both games require you to use preset characters, each possessing a fully developed, 
 distinctive personality, and determine party membership solely in response to plot developments 
 over which you have no control. But while Betrayal at Krondor allowed you to develop your character 
 in a variety of ways while exploring a vast gaming world and undertaking numerous subquests, Return 
 to Krondor offers much more restrictive gameplay. Each chapter in Return to Krondor is set in a 
 very discrete, confining geographic area (one room, in the case of two of the chapters) , and most 
 chapters have no subquests at all, forcing you to focus solely on your primary quest objectives. 
 The handful of available subquests are all interesting and do an excellent job at drawing you deeper 
 into Krondor's world, and the main storyline is consistently compelling. In fact, you are likely 
 to race through the already brief game because the lure of advancing the storyline by proceeding 
 directly to the next key objective is difficult to resist. Still, even if you want to stop and 
 savor the game's surroundings, your ancillary activities are primarily limited to opening doors 
 in Krondor to encounter random human enemies or, in the sole chapter set in the not-so-vast wilderness, 
 hopping along from territory to territory looking for random, mostly human, enemies to engage. 
 The linearity of Return to Krondor will alienate role-playing game fans who prefer more open-ended 
 experiences such as those offered by the Fallout games, but the strength of Return to Krondor's 
 main storyline will certainly appeal to adventure game fans and other gamers wanting to play an 
 often-compelling "interactive movie."  

 Set directly in the city of Krondor and its nearby surroundings, Return to Krondor's main plot involves 
 retrieving an immensely powerful artifact, the Tear of the Gods, after it was relegated to a watery 
 grave by an ambitious pirate, Bear. Bear has been carving a grisly path of destruction throughout 
 the world of Midkemia as he has sought to capture the power of the Tear of the Gods to achieve 
 his nefarious ends. To hastily save the day, a not-so-unlikely band of heroes is formed, consisting 
 of a reformed master thief, an exotic court mage, a vengeful member of the city guard, a priest 
 hailing from the temple that previously maintained the lost artifact, and finally, a reluctant 
 guildsman who has been known to hurl a spell or two upon occasion. Each of the characters has a 
 preset, distinctive, and colorful personality and background that are revealed and explored throughout 
 the course of the game. Almost all of the conversations in the game are voice-acted, and generally 
 the acting is excellent, certainly more professional in quality than you typically see in an adventure 
 or role-playing game. Unlike some role-playing games, which feature hundreds of monstrous enemy 
 types, most of your opponents in Return to Krondor are malevolent humans. The lack of inhuman monsters 
 in Return to Krondor is actually one of the game's strengths, as it does a remarkable job of giving 
 you a sense of empathy with your character as you encounter each mysterious new monster. While 
 the typical AD&amp; D or Might and Magic game often devolves into a creature fest, with a long procession 
 of equally undeveloped critters scampering over to your characters in order to be chopped to pieces, 
 in Return to Krondor each monster feels unique and plausible within the context of the gaming world. 

 While Betrayal at Krondor was primarily a first-person-perspective game, Return to Krondor opts 
 for a stylish, but occasionally disorienting, variety of third-person perspectives. Unlike the 
 suddenly abundant third-person-perspective games using a "trailing camera," in Return to Krondor 
 the camera angles are stationary in each scene, although you can choose from a variety of camera 
 views in most key encounter areas in the game. As you move your party through the gaming world, 
 using either directional keys or by simply mouse-clicking on a targeted location, you prompt automatic 
 shifts in the game's camera perspective. The frequently shifting camera perspectives is often disorienting, 
 since clicking on a location at the top of your screen regularly results in your characters actually 
 moving towards the bottom of the screen after an involuntary camera switch. In the vast majority 
 of outdoor locations, you can't readily switch back to a previous perspective, making it easy to 
 initially lose orientation as you suddenly view the gaming world from a different angle. Veterans 
 of the Alone in the Dark series or similar games are likely to adapt quicker to Krondor's new environment, 
 but most gamers will require a lengthier-than-usual period of time to adapt to the game's controls. 
 All of the characters in the game are represented by texture-mapped polygons, and PyroTechnix's 
 proprietary graphics engine supports most modern 3D accelerators through Direct3D. The differences 
 between the Direct3D version of the game and the proprietary "True 3D" software version are minor, 
 which is a compliment to the software version rather than a critique of the hardware-accelerated 
 version. The lush background scenery in the game is often truly beautiful, and the characters are 
 rendered in great detail, with distinctive faces (complete with lip-synching mouths) and appearances 
 that change to reflect their equipped armor and weaponry. Scripted cutscenes are plentiful and 
 do an excellent job of keeping you immersed in the gaming world while advancing the plot and further 
 developing the personalities of characters in the game. There are also a number of video cutscenes 
 sprinkled throughout the game, and they do an equally proficient job of rewarding you for your 
 achievements while maintaining a consistent style of presentation. Return to Krondor's graphics 
 and well-written storyline constantly made the game a delight to watch, even though I frequently 
 desired more interactive gameplay.  

 Combat in the game is turn-based although not as tactical as typical turn-based role-playing games 
 because you have fewer options available to your characters. Combat is always to the death (apparently 
 there's no such thing as a well-advised retreat among the bloodthirsty Krondorians) and, with some 
 notable exceptions, usually occurs in a relatively confined area. There are six schools of magic 
 (four for mages, two for priests) , and spells cast during combat exhibit suitably colorful and 
 otherwise impressive effects. Mage spells can either be "quick cast" immediately, which could result 
 in a spell failure, or "slow cast" over two turns, in which case the spell will be lost if the 
 caster is hit prior to launching the spell. Priest spells are always successfully invoked and can 
 be cast using spell points or, for the masochist in you, the life points of the caster. Unlike 
 Betrayal at Krondor, combat does not occur on a separate "grid-like" combat screen. There is always 
 a color-coded circle beneath the active character or enemy in combat, allowing you to instantly 
 determine the relative health and spell points of that character or enemy. Unfortunately, while 
 the lack of a clearly marked movement "grid" makes the environment more immersive, it also makes 
 it difficult to quickly determine a character's movement range. The movement system seems inherently 
 quirky, since you often move a character to a square erroneously color-coded as one in which your 
 character will be unable to attack, only to find out you still have the ability to gleefully hack 
 away at a nearby enemy. While the game's manual informs you of this color-coding quirk, such disclosure 
 didn't alleviate my desire for a movement system that would allow me to accurately plan out my 
 characters' moves.   

 Although Return to Krondor was in development for a long time, some aspects of its design (in addition 
 to the movement system discussed above) ironically feel a bit unpolished. The graphics perspective 
 occasionally results in enemies randomly encountered in the rooms of Krondor falling tantalizingly 
 out of the reach of your characters. Occasionally the game would momentarily pause prior to animating 
 a spell effect or while the mouse cursor hovered over certain interface buttons. The game's manual 
 is less detailed than in should be in describing some aspects of gameplay, such as the nondescript 
 combat modifiers ("heroes flurry!") that are randomly generated before every combat turn. The initial 
 release of the game had DirectSound and other DirectX problems with some fairly standard hardware, 
 but they've already been addressed by a patch that was quickly released by PyroTechnix.   

 Both of the previous Betrayal games featured complicated methods of opening treasure chests found 
 during the course of the game. But instead of punishing gamers with the notoriously tedious "bead" 
 puzzles of Betrayal in Antara or the riddle puzzles in Betrayal at Krondor, this time the treasure 
 chests actually add to gameplay, rather than distract from it. A thief's task of unlocking and 
 disarming a chest is graphically represented in Return to Krondor, albeit in a somewhat abstract 
 manner. Gamers still not wanting to mess around with the puzzle chest can elect to have the game 
 automatically determine whether or not the thievish Squire James is successful at opening a chest 
 based solely upon his lock-picking and disarming skills. You'll gather hoards of treasure from 
 defeated foes during the course of the game and unfortunately also spend a significant amount of 
 time tediously identifying or moving that treasure from corpses to your characters' backpacks. 
 Each individual item in the game has to be specifically assessed and moved, and your victims' bodies 
 have to exasperatingly be searched one by one. If you insist upon diligently searching all of your 
 dead enemies' bodies and identifying their items, you'll likely spend a good deal of your playing 
 time doing just that. A few "identify all" or "take all" shortcuts would have made the wealth-accumulation 
 aspects of the game much more enjoyable, even though there isn't a heck of a lot of things to spend 
 all of your amassed money on during the course of the game.  

 The game's main problem, however, is clearly its brevity. Although there are a few difficulty settings 
 and the option to make mages more or less effective at spell-casting, these alternatives are unlikely 
 to significantly prolong the game's replayability. Most players will play through Return to Krondor 
 in a week or two of casual gaming. Return to Krondor is certainly not a massive and open-ended 
 role-playing game set in an expansive gaming world. With its distinctive, preset characters, scripted 
 events, and limited geographical scope, Return to Krondor is a more linear, story-driven, and somewhat 
 more intimate game. While Return to Krondor may not be an epic sequel to Betrayal at Krondor, its 
 excellent graphics and immersive plot and gaming world make it an enjoyable story-driven game while 
 it lasts.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (0 Reviews)
-------------------------------------------------
