-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Return to Mysterious Island
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/adventure/returntomysteriousisland/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec  3, 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.3
Critic Score: 7.8, 21 Review (s)
User Score: 8.1, 362 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: DreamCatcher Interactive
Developer: Kheops Studio
Genre: Adventure
Date:     Nov 2, 2004
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Aside from a few overly convoluted puzzles and some other flaws common to traditional adventure 
 games, puzzle-solving doesn't get much more captivating than this. 

  Resurrecting popular works of fiction has long been a favorite pastime of adventure game developers, 
 but few such adaptations have been as successfully realized as Return to Mysterious Island. Just 
 like the 19th-century Jules Verne novel that inspired it, this game works both as a sci-fi saga 
 and an earthy tale about surviving as a castaway on a deserted island in the South Seas. Aside 
 from a few overly convoluted puzzles and some other flaws common to traditional adventure games, 
 puzzle-solving doesn't get much more captivating than this.  

          What would an adventure on a tropical island be without a simian sidekick?     

  Readers 
 familiar with Verne's classic  The Mysterious Island  will particularly appreciate the plot. It 
 serves as a modern follow-up to the 1870 tale about Americans who escape the Civil War battle of 
 Richmond by stealing a hot-air balloon and wind up playing  Survivor  with Captain Nemo (who didn't 
 just appear in Verne's better known  Twenty Thousand Leagues Under the Sea ) . You assume the role 
 of Mina, a solo around-the-world sailor who survives a shipwreck in the South Pacific, only to 
 wash up on a forsaken isle with a cryptic past. There is one major "retcon" here -- the island was 
 destroyed by a volcanic eruption at the book's climax -- but the storyline otherwise pays homage 
 to the original narrative.  

  It also pays homage to adventure-game conventions handed down since Larry Laffer blew up his first 
 sex doll. Mina must collect everything that isn't nailed down and use these items to progress. 
 Being patient and observant are crucial skills here, as most screens have at least one object that 
 needs to be tossed into Mina's inventory before she moves on.  

  There is a dose of reality in the proceedings, however. Instead of tackling ridiculous puzzles 
 like Gabriel Knight 3's infamous "fake moustache" head-scratcher (whose solution involved the use 
 of syrup and a cat) , Mina spends her first moments on the island figuring out how to make a fire 
 to cook crabs and fish, and how to make a knife to cut open oysters and coconuts. She goes about 
 this in a distinctly adventure-game fashion -- combining a vine with a stick and worms to make a 
 fishing pole, for example -- but at least her problems are rooted in real-world concerns like hunger, 
 rather than abstractions so remote that you need a walk-through to find a solution.  

  Also, most puzzles in Return to Mysterious Island have multiple solutions. Fires can be kindled 
 with dried lichen, palm fronds, or mold, and lit with either a makeshift lighter or a lens that 
 can focus the sun's rays. Climactic puzzles can be solved in two or three ways, including one piano-based 
 variation that tests your ability to read musical notes. This allows you to pick and choose paths 
 through the game. Since there are so many variations, you can work on numerous items at the same 
 time in hopes of solving a problem. So even when you are stuck, you're at least experimenting so 
 much that you don't feel stuck. There are also a lot of hints provided in the item descriptions, 
 so you usually have some idea of what you're supposed to be doing.  

  Being able to solve the riddles in different ways doesn't make the game easy, though. Some puzzles 
 stretch the boundaries of common sense, especially after Mina heals and makes friends with a cute 
 monkey she names Jep. An adventure game is certainly the only place that you're going to find an 
 ape scaling a windmill to grease up its rusted parts with seal fat so that it can be used to make 
 flour for no apparent reason. And the problems in the closing sequences involve cracking some very 
 tough combinations to shut down lasers and open doors.  

  Gathering items is also challenging. Hunting pixels can strain your eyes, and roaming over every 
 millimeter of every screen until the mouse cursor changes to a grasping hand or moving gears is 
 necessary throughout the entire game. Many objects blend right into the backgrounds -- thick foliage 
 often obscures edible items like oranges, while darkened indoor locales practically hide such vital 
 supplies as saltpeter. And there are so many items to pick up that the game feels like a scavenger 
 hunt at times.  

          Mina plays Robinson Crusoe on one pretty island. If not for the absence of amenities like 
 food and shelter, this would be a nice vacation spot.     

  At least Kheops Studio compensates for the camouflage with truly gorgeous backdrops. Aside from 
 graphic-novel-like cutscenes that pop up during action sequences, the game is played in the first-person, 
 through Mina's eyes, in front of postcard vistas that look like advertisements for getaways on 
 tropical islands. Going indoors doesn't lessen the impressive quality of the visuals, either. The 
 audio quality isn't as noteworthy. As you spend the game alone, except for your monkey pal, there 
 is little dialogue. Atmospheric sound effects are sparse as well, as befits this picturesque yet 
 spooky deserted island. The musical score provides some memorable moments, though, particularly 
 during the eerie tunes featuring choral odes.  

  Essentially, Return to Mysterious Island is aimed directly at the cult audience still addicted 
 to traditional adventure games. As such, it probably isn't going to convert anybody, but it's a 
 good game that adventure fans will probably enjoy.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (17 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: gijas
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 6, 2008 9:09 pm PT
Review:  I recently played this game despite it being out for more than three years now but with my initial 
 interest in point and click fp adventure games I thought I would give it a try.
  
  The story is what makes this game and being based on a JV novel make sit even better athough I 
 never have read this novel it does help flesh out the story a bit.
  
  Gameplay is simple point and click where you click on a icon to move to the next screen but you 
 can move around each screen 360 degrees. 
  
  This is a item based game so you need to find items in each area or screen and also combine them 
 to get certin objects or open an item but I won't tell you anymore than that.
  
  You play a girl that is stranded or ship-wreaked after a sail boat race ends badly near the island 
 and you wash up on the beach. During your quests you will build fires, find things to eat, met 
 the island inhabitants-monkeys and even scare them off from time to time. Mid-way through you'll 
 find a secret cavern and eventually a submarine guarded by evil robots. Awesome story if you ask 
 me.
  
  The puzzles are logic based and for the most part combining items in your inventory to make other 
 itmes such as a diving suit, a gun, bow, a battery and a kit. There are many other items to mention 
 but I'll leave that up to you to find.
  
  The graphics are neat and fit the island setting well. You have a beach with palm trees, a lake 
 and mud or clay, a volcano, a cavern and a submarine. For the most part they are pretty but you 
 can tell that they are static mostly and aging. However, what I noticed is the ambient efects like 
 when you look out a window in a windmill you can see bugs flying around and butterflies near the 
 main trail on the island. 
  
  The sound is awesome with sounds of the surf near the beach, the volcano grumbling, the monkeys 
 making their noises and the robats flooting around. Truely a work of art.
  
  Replay is something that is not thought of with adventure games but there is a scoring system here. 
 If you find all the secrets hint - walkthrough then you get more bonus points and of course points 
 creating certain items and making it through the main stroy line. My score was 310 with a total 
 of 360 points I believe you can get in the game.
  
  Overall RTMI is a well rounded and enjoyable yarn in the fire and it stands out head and shoulders 
 with all the other adventure games out there these days. If your looking for a good adventure on 
 a desolate tropic island like in the show "Lost" then look no further than this game. Good luck 
 with your quest! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: javanniekerk
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 6, 2007 1:36 am PT
Review:  You don't get much more adventurous than Jules Verne tales, so borrowing the mystery and intrigue 
 of Captain Nemo is a natural choice for an epic adventure game. While Return to Mysterious Island 
 falls a bit short of epic , it does deliver decent doses of adventure, perfectly integrated puzzle 
 play and beautiful scenery.
  
  The game opens as Mina, our intrepid adventurer, washes up on the shores of Mysterious Island . 
 Understandably, she's a bit famished, and you are immediately set in search of food. From the onset 
 of the game, the logical nature of the puzzles become apparent; the game deftly avoids the ubiquitous 
 problem of arbitrary puzzle play. As you set about the task of finding nourishment, you'll quickly 
 discover another nice feature: most problems have more than one solution, and the game rewards 
 ingenuity with bonus points . Of course, this is an adventure game, so getting the grub isn't as 
 straightforward as it might initially seem, but it's not laughably difficult either.
  
  Even brief exploration will reveal some of the genre's most beautiful scenery. The graphics do 
 excellent justice to the game's setting of a lush island in the South Pacific; sandy beaches, lush 
 inlands, even a gorgeous lake are all delightfully beautiful. There's not much to speak of in the 
 way of music, but it actually works here as it emphasizes the deserted nature of the island. The 
 ambient sound is fitting and relevant; when Mina is in a cave, her voice seems to echo off the 
 walls. Coconuts fall from trees with solid, earthy thuds. The miniscule amount of voice acting, 
 mostly in the form of Mina thinking aloud, is well executed and manages to avoid the cheesy overacting 
 that plagues so many other games.
  
  Unfortunately, like most adventure games, Mysterious Island does have a few weak points. The multiple-solution 
 feature means you'll likely end up with tons of inventory that you never use. So much so, in fact, 
 that when the game ended, I felt a bit cheated. I had such a cool array of promising inventory, 
 I thought there were still a good handful of puzzles left. The sheer volume of inventory can often 
 get a bit unwieldy to manage, especially if you start combining items and forget that they're in 
 the assembly area rather than the stock . There are few screens that don't have at least one item 
 to pick up, if not half a dozen.
  
  The game is also a bit short. The end game seems to hint at other puzzles that lie ahead (and some 
 quite promising sounding ones, at that) so I was truly stunned when I realized the game was over. 
 Even as the final cutscene played, I thought some incident would occur that would require a bit 
 more puzzling. But mostly, my disappointment was simply based on the fact that the game was a visual 
 and mental delight (if you can get over a few glaring anachronisms that really don't quite fit 
 into the world of Captain Nemo) .
  
  A dash of adventure, a liberal dose of fun, well integrated puzzles and beautiful scenery make 
 Return to Mysterious Island a fun jaunt, if only for an afternoon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cyrax-Sektor
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 22, 2007 9:40 am PT
Review:  -Gameplay &amp; story
  You're a young sailor named Mina who's wanted to break the world sailing record. In a dangerous 
 storm, your boat is destroyed and you are washed up on a mysterious island.
  
  After a thorough examination of the island you've been washed up on, you discover that humans have 
 once crossed that path. But they have left this island, leaving you alone on Mysterious Island.
 
  
  Monkeys are all over the island, some hostile, and others peaceful. During your journey, you come 
 across an injured monkey that will become your companion, which you name 'Jep'. We made fun of 
 the name as we played. What kind of a name is Jep?
  
  The more you learn about your surroundings, the more enigmatic it becomes. Could this island once 
 have been inhabited by Captain Nemo himself, the creator and captain of the legendary Nautilus 
 submarine, a vessel beyond its time?
  
  While on this island, you must struggle to survive, using whatever is in your environment, from 
 coconuts to sulfuric acid. In the inventory menu, you can combine items like ingredients together 
 to create other items. You must experiment with the item combinations. Some are obvious while others 
 aren't quite so. But as you play, you'll get more and more crafty.
  
  After performing a particularly-creative combination, you gain points which earn you bonus concept 
 art at the image gallery at the main menu. This is all and good for those gamers who wish to see 
 behind-the-scenes stuff, but I'm more a fan of interviews on how the game was made.
  
  -Graphics
  The opening movie is superb, Mina moving like a human being. The background is excellent 
 as well, the trees waving in the wind, adding even more realism.
  
  Throughout the rest of the game, the part that you play, the graphics are well, not ugly, but not 
 breath-taking. The animals are rendered well, with little or no hard edges.
  
  During critical moments, when lighting a fire for example, you'll be granted a lone drawing of 
 the event. They are drawn superbly, each shot consistent with the other ones. It was brilliant 
 to replace time-consuming animated cut scenes with these pictures, but some may have preferred 
 actual video. At least it allowed the developers to work on other aspects of the game.
  
  -Sound
  The musical score isn't a masterpiece, however, you're not focusing on the background 
 music, but the game itself, so I can't complain much about it.
  
  The sound effects are genuine, monkeys screeching like monkeys and the waves sounding like their 
 real-life counterparts.
  
  The voice acting is basic. Sometimes, the person behind the voice puts emotion into what she's 
 saying, other times, it sounds like a machine. The voice definitely doesn't seem to match the character, 
 who looks like a twelve year-old anyways. How many sailors do you know sail at twelve?
  
  -Value
  Seeing as I got this for free at the library, I have no complaints.
  
  -Reviewer's 
 Tilt
  A nice game, but it couldn't have been longer. After solving the game, you can play it again and 
 play it alternate ways, using different items. So have fun playing Return to Mysterious Island, 
 inspired by a Jules Verne novel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gentazo
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 2, 2006 10:32 am PT
Review:  The Jules Verne classic Mysterious Island is a story of survival, determination, and mankinds 
 triumph against the challenges of nature. Five men escape a Confederate prison in a hot air balloon 
 during the American Civil War. Caught in a fierce storm, they get carried into the Pacific Ocean 
 and eventually find themselves trapped in a remote uncharted island. With no means to escape the 
 island, the castaways rely on their resourcefulness and scientific knowledge to forge themselves 
 a new life. Throughout the novel, the castaways receive help from an unknown source. This mysterious 
 guardian is none other than Captain Nemo from Jules Vernes 2000 Leagues Under the Sea. As the 
 island is destroyed with a volcanic eruption at the end of the novel, Captain Nemo reveals himself 
 and escorts the castaways to safety with his submarine Nautilus.
  
  
  To an Excellent Adventure Game 
  
  
  Return to Mysterious Island assumes that the island 
 was never destroyed as described in Jules Vernes novel. Many years after the departure of the 
 original castaways, the island is still uncharted and seemingly uninhabited. On an ambitious journey 
 to sail around the world, Mina is caught in a storm and gets stranded on the island. The game starts 
 as Mina wakes up on the shore of the island. She is determined to get away, but first she will 
 have to overcome the island and unlock its mysteries. Walking on the footsteps of the original 
 castaways, it is up to the players to help Mina survive and understand Captain Nemos home.
  
  
  Return to Mysterious Island makes a great sequel to the Jules Verne classic. Fans of the 
 novel will be thrilled to explore famous locations from the book, like the Granite House and the 
 windmill, not to mention the legendary submarine Nautilus. With her resourcefulness, resolve, and 
 scientific aptitude, Mina could have easily been the protagonist in a Jules Verne novel. Mina even 
 heals and tames a monkey like the characters in the novel. However, the game can easily appeal 
 to those who know nothing about the story behind it. Return to Mysterious Island is about a young 
 womans will to survive in a hostile environment. It is an adventure about overcoming challenges 
 and finding the hope to carry on in a most unlikely place.
  
  
  The Adventure Company delivers a very successful game with Return to Mysterious Island. The pre-rendered 
 graphics are very impressive and inspiring. The island is full of interesting details and visual 
 appeal. The music is pleasant and appropriate for the theme of the game. The mouse-based interface 
 is simple and intuitive. The first-person view will be familiar to the players of games like Myst, 
 The Crystal Key, or Atlantis: The Lost Tales. The puzzles are intelligent, fairly rich in variety, 
 and fit logically into the story.
  
  
  At the beginning of the game, Mina is weakened and hungry after her ordeals in the sea. Thus, the 
 first task of the game is to help Mina regain her strength. The simple challenge of finding food 
 and starting a fire on a deserted island is enough to reveal the beauty of Return to Mysterious 
 Island. The players will have to be creative and make use of the objects along the beach to help 
 Mina recover her energy. Once Mina is strong enough to explore the island, the players will be 
 able to visit the locations from the novel, unravel the history of the island, and understand its 
 inner workings. Creative thinking and careful observation will be required at every step. Players 
 will have to reinvent simple tools and make use of the inventions of Captain Nemo and the five 
 castaways to overcome the games challenges.
  
  
  One of the most interesting features of Return to Mysterious Island is its approach to puzzle solutions. 
 Many of the inventory-based puzzles in the game have more than one solution. Different item combinations 
 can be used to create the same object. For instance, the player is not limited to the specific 
 branch of a specific tree to create a fishing pole. This makes the item-related puzzles in Return 
 to Mysterious Island far more logical than many other adventure games. Furthermore, the ability 
 to use multiple items for the same purpose increases the likelihood of players finding the items 
 they need to complete the game. However, this puzzle structure also means that players are likely 
 to end up with a number of items they will never use throughout the game........... 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Beverly_S
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 24, 2006 7:15 am PT
Review:  I was extremely pleased with Mysterious Island. I usually shy away from 1st person adventures, 
 preferring 3rd person adventure games such as Syberia or Longest Journey, so I was a little hesitant 
 to play this game. I have to say I'm glad I did, it may have given me what I need to not be so 
 skeptical about other 1st person games. 
  
  The graphics were gorgeous, the puzzles were sometimes easy, sometimes challenging. I love inventory 
 puzzles so I had a lot of fun in that aspect. The storyline was engaging as well. It's also a good 
 game for the kids to watch. My kids loved watching me try to heal Jep the Monkey and they loved 
 giving their input on the puzzles and inventory combos. 
  
  The only disappointment was the length of them game. It was WAY too short, it seemed it ended rather 
 abruptly for me, especially as I still had many many inventory items left that I had done nothing 
 with. 
  
  All in all, it was a great game and I highly recommend it. At $20 it's well worth the money even 
 with the shorter length, but I suggest not paying any more than that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TOMBRAIDERHADI
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 22, 2006 10:16 am PT
Review:  This Game is my favorite! it's looks like Syberia!
  Return to Mysterious Island follows Mina, a strong young woman alone on a round-the-world sailing 
 expedition. Caught in a tremendous storm, she becomes stranded on the shores of a wild and apparently 
 uninhabited island. As she explores her new surroundings, she uncovers artifacts, living spaces 
 and technologies left behind by the people who came before her to this uncharted island. 
  Creating a new life, Mina builds a home from the remains of Granite Rock and uses her survival 
 skills against the wilds of the jungle. She soon becomes aware of a figure in the shadows who, 
 seemingly aware of her troubles, offers her assistance. She eventually identifies this figure as 
 the unsettled ghost of Captain Nemo, whose body is located in the Nautilus deep below the island 
 shore. Piecing together the hints and clues he provides, Mina must travel to the Nautilus, retrieve 
 his body and give him a proper burial in order to free his tortured soul.
  
  Take on the role of Mina and solve a variety of clever puzzles and use the various technologies 
 found on the Nautilus to return to civilization or remain cast away on the island forever.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: beaulee
Rating: 3.4
Date: Feb 13, 2006 5:33 pm PT
Review:  Let me preface this with a comment that I thoroughly enjoy great adventure games, and I am saddened 
 that most folks seem to think this is one.
  
  As the title implies, this is a return to the same old adventure game you're used to playing. 10 
 or 15 beautiful landscape portraits followed by a tedius dance of "Is my mouse touching an active 
 object?" 
  
  This game failed to deliver on 4 out of the 5 key features necessary of any decent adventure game 
 :
  1. Longevity : This game is far too short. In the attempt to make it non-linear, they made a game 
 that can be solved in 30 minutes flat.
  2. Puzzles : There are about 5 logic puzzles in this game. Far less than any other adventure game 
 I've ever played. All the puzzles are completely solvable by anyone age 6+. Most puzzles have the 
 answers conveniently carved right above them.
  3. Cutscenes : I tease you not, all cutscenes in this game are black and white comic spreads. This 
 is not counting the opening and closing cinematic which is probably 10 seconds altogether.
  4. Sound : By the water? Hear the ocean. By the hot springs? Hear steaming. By the jungle? Hear 
 monkeys. Yeah, that about does it. Even the comic book cutscenes lacked a lot of explanatory dialog. 
 And speech? Forget it. If you pick up a book or notes with a few sentences, you will have to read 
 them yourself.
  5. Graphics : This is the only aspect of Adventure Games that wasn't horrifically bad in this game. 
 What few screens you had to work with were 360 degree viewable and thank god, cuz you'd need semi-decent 
 graphics to help you pick up all the redundant objects.
  
  What's sad is that most folks seem to be content with what this industry is kicking out recently. 
 Nevermind every other game genre has made huge improvements through graphics, ingenuity, and overall 
 content. Adventure games (Excluding Myst Series) are essentially carbon copies of previous games. 
 Carbon copies, and yet lately they all fall short of 7th Guest/11th Hour in sheer number of puzzles; 
 and none seem to hold a candle to the length of other greats such as The Longest Journey and a 
 handful of King's Quests. 
  
  Nowadays the genre is shooting for the shortest, cheapest, and easiest possible route. Effectively 
 saying the consumer has ADD, is cheap, and doesn't want to use any brain power. At the very least 
 Adventure games tell an interesting story through cutscenes, but this one doesn't do that either.
 
  
  I believe the Myst series is one of the top 3 selling game series of all time. So there IS a market 
 for adventure games, but no one seems to want to step up and do one right. Having to charge less 
 than 20.00 for your product as soon as it touches the shelf tells the consumer that this is a cheap, 
 short game immediately. But we'll continue to pay it, cuz we're sheep. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mgarribaldi
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 7, 2006 1:28 pm PT
Review:  I downloaded the playable demo of this game which, subsequently, led me to buy the full version. 
 It is graphically beautiful, a full-screen scrolling backdrop that is just breathtakingly stunning, 
 which helps to set the atmosphere for this somewhat disappointingly short adventure, set on an 
 island in the Pacific which has been inspired by the Jules Verne classic of similar name.
  The general plot is adhered to fairly well at first although it does trend toward a disappointingly 
 hi-tech modernistic conclusion as it nears completion. However this does not detract from the overall 
 charm of the game.
  Set in modern times it goes along the lines of a beautiful young woman being stranded on an unknown 
 island following an accident at sea, having to survive with what she finds around her on the island 
 (including raw materials to make food) . However she soon finds out that she is not alone and that 
 she has a ghostly companion on the island who gives her a quest . She is helped along by a monkey 
 who befriends her after she rescues it, and together they gather all the materials they need to 
 complete the quest given to her by none other than the ghost of the famous Captain Nemo, which 
 once completed will ultimately lead to her rescue from The Mysterious Island.
  As for the game play, the thing that attracted me more than the usual smattering of logic puzzles 
 was the possibilities of creating new objects by combining existing inventory items, for instance, 
 mixing three or four base objects together that are found lying around the beach to create something 
 more useful which can be used to obtain food. But having obtained said food you still can't eat 
 it until you collect more objects to make a fire with which to cook it. Then you have to find a 
 place to build the fire... (Not trying to give any spoilers away here...)
  This is a refreshing change as you actually have to think logically through every step of a puzzle 
 before you can successfully complete it. That having been said there are several ways to solve 
 a puzzle using these methods and there are usually JUST enough items around to let you solve it. 
 Even if you make a mistake or two there is generally more than one way to solve a puzzle using 
 different combinations of objects so all is not lost.
  A lot of item combinations require a basic understanding of chemistry (acids etc.) however to offset 
 this, there are a few clues lying about to help you out and it is not difficult to solve even the 
 most difficult of them.
  It is possible to die in the game but only near the end, and only if you choose the wrong option 
 to solve a particular problem (or click in the wrong place) . You immediately come back to life 
 at the same spot you died at before you made that all-too-fatal wrong click.
  As mentioned above, this adventure is too short and does not make nearly enough use of the objects 
 that you eventually create in your inventory, and the over-all story arc is not overly-complicated 
 which means it is easy to complete this game in a very short space of time (about 1 day of play 
 should do it if you think through things thoroughly enough.)
  Although I have no real complaints about this game (apart from the really really cheesy bit with 
 lasers, phasers and floating robots (!) ) I do feel that it could have been longer and slightly 
 more involved. The modern hi-tec does not really marry in with the Jules Verne era, which relied 
 on electricity and mechanical technology as portrayed in the classic "20,000 Leagus Under the Sea" 
 starring James Mason. Anti-Gravity certainly never entered into it and as for phasers...
  However, this adventure does make you think and it does make you interact with the gorgeous scenery. 
 Not to be passed over if you have a day to spare and you want something to do that is not TOO taxing.
 
  I have given this game a rating of easy which it is, IF you examine the scenery closely enough. 
 Once all objects are found it isn't too difficult from that point onwards... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mandycat1980
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 23, 2006 1:20 pm PT
Review:  This game was really awesome. It made me want to be stranded on a deserted island myself. 
  
  The graphics were awesome and I loved every bit of it except it just wasn't long enough. I 
 finished in under 7 hours so I was sad to have finished it so soon. Gameplay was great and the 
 adventure they take you on is really wonderful. All the puzzlers & headscratchers were great and 
 you gotta love a game like this, that's interactive without violence. If you like first person 
 games that requires little hand-eye coordination & more brain power, I suggest this game. Always 
 keeps you thinking. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mehfuz
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 21, 2006 8:57 pm PT
Review:  Return to the mysterious island is based on "THE MYSTERIOUS ISLAND",
  the great adventure book written by famous French novelist Jules Verne.
  The game doesn't exactly 
 follow that book, but you'll find many aspects
  from the book. Mina is a solo sailor whose ship is wrecked by a heavy 
  sea storm in the middle 
 of Pacific Ocean. The girl is miraculously alive, 
  and finds herself stranded on a tropical island. The main objective 
  of mina is to figure out 
 a way to leave that island with the help of 
  a monkey named Jap and also solves the mystery of captain Nemo. 
  Adventure games mean lots of 
 items & puzzles and you will not be disappointed by this game because this game has both the things. 
 "RETURN TO MYSTERIOUS ISLAND" features 100+ items to pick up, manage, use, and combine. Plus the 
 fantastic assemble/disassemble method. "Bonus Points" is the other factor that adds replay value 
 to the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Terri824
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 3, 2006 3:38 pm PT
Review:  I would definitely recommend this game. It took me a few minutes to get into it but once I did 
 I found that it was relatively easy to play and I had a great time with this adventure. It could 
 have been longer and that would have suited me just fine. I can't remember my score but have put 
 the game aside and will try it again later.
  I can't remember any problems with this game. No glitches here!
  I suppose the most problems 
 I had was trying to take care of the robots. However, once I realized how to take care of them 
 it became quite easy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SBF9304
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 12, 2005 4:11 pm PT
Review:  Return to Mysterious Island has the player play a character stranded on an island. The player is 
 required to gather things from the island in order to create certain items and live. 
  
  The first goal is finding food. Then the player has to find shelter where an injured monkey is. 
 After healing the monkey, he becomes your pal.
  
  The game is rather difficult without a walkthru, but with a walkthru it seems rather short. After 
 using all these surviving skills you eventually find a cave which you get into and then it leads 
 to all these robots and mind boggling lock puzzles.
  
  The game is actually enjoyable. I'm antipating a sequel though, since it's inspired by Jules Verne.
 
  
  One of the things I didn't get is why the game was rated "T = Teen". I think it should have gotten 
 an "E = Everyone". There's little violence, and none having blood or gore. There's no foul language. 
 There is one scene of a girl taking a bath in a lake, but even then they don't show her private 
 areas. 
  
  Also there's this volcanic earth quake that keeps happening early in the game, but they get around 
 to explaining what causes that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: r1crawford
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jul 14, 2005 9:07 am PT
Review:  I'm not the biggest fan of adventure games, but Return To Mysterious Island is one of those games 
 that will probably appeal to a lot of people that previously would have avoided the genre. While 
 it's not a perfect adventure game it certainly has plenty of enjoyable parts that make it a highly 
 entertaining game.
  
  You are Mina, a round-the-world sailor, who has washed up on shore on a 'Mysterious Island'. One 
 of the first scenes will let you know that it's not just an ordinary island, but one that contains 
 some 'spooky' elements. The game is played from Mina's first person viewpoint, with a number of 
 page-book scenes to break things up.
  
  So what do you do when you land on an island in the middle of the Pacific Ocean after you'd washed 
 ashore? Food! And that you're first assignment as you won't be able to move onto the main part 
 of the story until you feed yourself.
  
  And this is where you discover that the game doesn't tie you down to finding the static 'x' amount 
 of items that are hidden about the place. There are multiple ways of finding food, and you need 
 not find them all. On my first attempt I was unable to create the fishing rod to catch the fish, 
 but instead of being stuck at that point until I did figure it out, I was able to use some other 
 food and move onto the next level. This is a continued theme in the game, and gives you an incentive 
 to replay the game to find out all the other options.
  
  The game itself is quite beautiful, although it can sometimes make it difficult to pick out the 
 objects that you need to collect. You will often need to move your mouse over the entire screen 
 to see if it changes shape to identify an object to add to your inventory. It's a minor complaint. 
 The inventory screen is easy to use with more than enough space to hold everything you collect, 
 and it also auto-dumps anything that you will not need again after you have used it.
  
  The puzzles and challenges are not that difficult, but a little bit of brainpower is required. 
 Plus the final 'puzzle' at the end is quite difficult and you will no doubt have to retry it a 
 number of times. If you do make a mistake that gets you killed, then the restart points are very 
 close to where you died, and so there's little to no frustration.
  
  Return To Mysterious Island is definitely a game for those interested in adventure games, but also 
 is one that will appeal to those just starting out in the genre. Check it out.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Paula465
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 27, 2005 12:22 pm PT
Review:  If you're looking for something that doesn't contain a lot of violence and requires a bit of thinking 
 to overcome challenges, then I think you'll enjoy this game.
  
  You can get yourself killed, but the cut scene of your demise is not gory and you aren't punished 
 game-wise for making an unwise decision.
  
  Some of the puzzles are intuitive and some are not, but the in-game inventory that allows you to 
 experiment with combinations of items gives you some idea of what is needed. With the system provided 
 you even know exactly how many items you are short in order to complete a combination, such as 
 items needed to build a fire or make a fishing pole.
  
  Another positive point for this game is that you can successfully make it through to the end without 
 finding all the puzzles, which gives you the opportunity to go back and try again to see what you 
 missed. You are given a score at the end of the game, and while I don't know what a perfect score 
 would be (as I have yet to attain a perfect score and I'm not even sure that the game will inform 
 you if you have) I do know that I have increased my score each time I've played the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: questclub
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 23, 2005 10:39 pm PT
Review:  Return to Mysterious Island is a little adventure which wouldn't offer a compelling and exciting 
 story, but would charm you with its addictive game-play and lovely extra features. It's one of 
 those rare unambitious little games crafted with loving hands and a great attention to detail that 
 provides us with relaxing atmosphere, good quality gaming and desire to play it over once we watched 
 the credits roll.
  
  A new creation of The Adventure Company is a small shine in a steady stream of its poor adventure 
 releases, although, like its siblings, it has several stability issues. It might occasionally stall 
 or crash, run slowly with hardware rendering or even lock up. If you experience such problems select 
 software rendering option and set higher refresh rate of your monitor.
  
  As it was mentioned above, Mysterious Island is not about an exciting storytelling. It might seem 
 a bit simple and naive, but it keeps a touch of innocence and good air about it. You play Mina 
 - an adventurer, Jules Verne fan and a photojournalist - who finds herself on a shore after surviving 
 a terrible storm. Right from the start the game tries to put you within the limits of a real world. 
 It offers you tasks on survival and gives some basic lessons on how to stay alive on a deserted 
 island. Already in the beginning developers throw you a mystery - a shadow of a man high on a cliff. 
 That gives you enough motivation to proceed further and complete your tasks. And the first one 
 will be to feed oneself with any food one can find, crash, smash, drink or fry. Therefore, most 
 puzzles are inventory-based and you'll be provided with the means to do numerous combinations with 
 zillions of goodies lying all around and waiting to be picked up. Some objects might be used for 
 several purposes and even combined with other items. That possibility adds a note of creativity 
 and excitement to the game. Later on, you'll find yourself an assistant - a monkey. Your pet wouldn't 
 make the game more interesting but will be a very helpful hand in your countless quests. All puzzles 
 are there with the reason. If you need to start a mill, for example, then you'll most certainly 
 be using it more than once. Many puzzles are optional and have several ways to solve them, giving 
 you extra bonus points or even opening an extra story line. This feature gives a non-linear feel 
 to the game and no doubt you'll miss a lot while playing the game for the first time.
  
  Apart from inventory scramble you'll encounter several puzzles during the later stages of the game, 
 although after the stunning diversity of item-crafting they are narrowed down to disappointing 
 code breaking, childish mini-games and a trivia quiz, which are quite simple even if you've never 
 played a quest before. I wouldn't suggest using a walk through for this game. Even if you're stuck 
 after some time you'll find an inspiration to overcome an obstacle albeit you wouldn' t find many 
 on your way to discovering the very few mysteries of this unique, but small volcanic island for 
 the game also houses a built-in extensive hint system. 
  
  Despite its attractive game-play features, Mysterious Island gives away minor logical lapses. They 
 wouldn't annoy, but rather amuse you. For example, Mina's mobile phone oddly survived the water 
 or you'll find a lonely maple amidst lavishly green tropical palm trees. Many puzzles were simplified 
 and you can't hide an ironic smile while watching some cut scenes.
  
  Graphics is not a big word in Mysterious Island. You'll be offered pleasing backgrounds and neatly 
 detailed surroundings with 360 degree orientation in scrolling locations. In other words, it provides 
 you with the sufficient means for playing, but it's not the issue for marvel. Most of cut scenes 
 are made as comic-book drawings with some comment of the main character. This is a really nice 
 feature, which adds extra coziness to the game. Musical score and sounds are pleasant and non-disturbing, 
 but nothing in particular either. Despite some minor shortcomings developers created an excellent 
 playground sharing all their dedication and positive attitude.
  
  Mysterious Island employs average audio and video presentation values. It has a weak storyline 
 which basically amounts to - Let's save Mina. But this game would attract all adventure fans as 
 well as the rest of the gaming community as a nice change from recent hard-core releases.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jwells
Rating: 7.6
Date: Feb 18, 2005 5:13 pm PT
Review:  Return to Mysterious Island is a sweet, short game. It has a nice story and is the best inventory 
 game Ive every played, but somehow I was left wanting more. While this might be a good thing for 
 a comedian, it isnt so great in a game. Unless the game has a sequel, that is! There were too 
 many unanswered questions, too many unexplained coincidences. Usually I like my adventure games 
 to have a tight story, with things well explained in the end. While this game featured enjoyable 
 puzzles, an engaging heroine and a monkey it did not answer many of the questions proposed by the 
 game itself. I did like some of the innovations, such as the point system. I have never EVER gone 
 back to replay an adventure game. And while I didnt replay this one from the start either, I did 
 go back and figure out many of the optional puzzles for more points. If you are looking for an 
 interesting and satisfying story from a game, dont get this one. If you are looking for some pleasant 
 puzzles to solve and a fascinating combination of inventory items then this is the game for you. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Docto878
Rating: 5.6
Date: Dec 27, 2004 6:38 am PT
Review:  I love playing adventure games, especially with my daughter. The puzzles are usually fun and somewhat 
 challenging. I especially liked Siberia 1 and 2. The puzzles could be hard but they usually made 
 sense. Also the cut scenes were great. Then there is RTMI. I am a pretty smart guy but I could 
 not make heads or tails out of this game. If not for the strategy guide I could not advance at 
 all. There was a scene where you had to get passed an agitated monkey The solution was to throw 
 a bamboo shoot into hot water to make a popping noise to scare him. I mean like, give me a break! 
 Also the items you need look just like the background so you have to be Sherlock Holmes to find 
 them. There is also a ton of backtracking. I am basically reading the strategy guide and then moving 
 forward. Even with the strategy guide I get into trouble. I could go over a bunch of ridiculous 
 puzzle clues but I think you get the point. There are better games out there. If you must get this 
 game wait for it in the bargain bin for a buck and a half. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
