-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Revenant
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/rpg/revenant/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov  5, 1999
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 7.4, 15 Review (s)
User Score: 8.0, 281 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Eidos Interactive
Developer: Cinematix Studios
Genre: Role-Playing
Date:     Sep 30, 1999
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Although Revenant is also a great-looking game that's fun to play, it constantly threatens to break 
 apart at the seams. 

 Revenant is an action-intensive role-playing game that involves a lot of combat and not much else. 
 It isn't a blatant Diablo rip-off like Darkstone, but its isometric perspective and its emphasis 
 on character interaction of the violent variety mean that Revenant ought to appeal to the same 
 crowd that enjoyed Blizzard's hit. However, although Revenant is also a great-looking game that's 
 fun to play, it constantly threatens to break apart at the seams. Its hero, a bitter and menacing 
 Ken Wahl-lookalike named Locke, is brought back from the dead to serve his masters - but it's the 
 game rather than its protagonist that most closely resembles Frankenstein's monster. Just as Revenant 
 is an impressive accomplishment in many ways, so too is it a disjointed collection of features 
 that are at least as repellent as they are cohesive.  

 Revenant's Locke is exceptionally lifelike for a dead man. His strange jitterbug walk isn't flattering, 
 but once he takes up a fighting stance and starts swinging his two-handed sword, he becomes quite 
 the showman. In fact, the motion-captured animation that brings Locke and many of his enemies to 
 life makes the game look terrific and unique. The continuous combat in Revenant quickly takes on 
 the realistic and dynamic appearance of an action movie and makes the game both exciting to play 
 and to watch. Locke leaps around with whopping sword combinations and flying kicks, smashes huge 
 spiders with his boots, and lops off his enemies' heads as his battle cries drown out their gurgling 
 death screams - the action is totally over the top. If anything, the game would have benefited 
 from a little restraint - Locke's enemies die the same way over and over, which eventually takes 
 the edge off watching and listening to ninjas and such choke on their own blood as they melodramatically 
 stumble about.  

 The rest of Revenant also looks good. The prerendered background scenery consists of fairly typical 
 fantasy fare, such as dense forests and catacombs, but it's richly colorful and highly detailed 
 and doesn't clash with the great-looking polygonal characters. And whenever Locke lets loose one 
 of his many powerful magic spells, incredible special effects light up the entire screen. There's 
 no question that Revenant looks impressive.  

 The problem is that the developers' apparently single-minded focus on Revenant's production value 
 has obvious and almost unforgivable consequences where the rest of the game is concerned. Revenant 
 often pauses without warning to load more scenery, which becomes a constant source of frustration 
 and a real liability when the game decides to stop when you're in the middle of a huge brawl. Although 
 you can adjust the frequency and length of loading times to your preference, you'll never find 
 a perfect middle ground, and you'll end up staring at static screens all too often unless your 
 computer greatly exceeds Revenant's system requirements. Furthermore, Locke will fight the same 
 handful of carefully detailed enemies over and over, just as his entire quest is not only short 
 but evidently also shorter than originally intended. The quest has an epic setup, but Locke's journey 
 merely involves passing through a couple of long mazes and trivial puzzles and ends up feeling 
 like some half-hour episode of something much larger. There's more evidence to suggest that Revenant 
 is but a shadow of what it was supposed to be. Locke will encounter characters that were clearly 
 designed to be companions in his quest; they stick out of the crowd and talk about how much they'd 
 like to join, but they never actually do. Ironically, it is these same underdeveloped storyline 
 pretensions that kill Revenant's replay value, since its weak linear plot forgoes the random variation 
 that made Diablo last. Furthermore, Locke can theoretically become proficient in all kinds of weapons, 
 including clubs, axes, bows, swords, and his bare hands. However, the game practically forces you 
 to fight using swords the entire time, since that's the only type of weapon you'll find consistently. 
 Locke will also find a huge variety of great-looking suits of armor that he'll throw away within 
 minutes as he stumbles upon newer and even better-looking suits - and this sort of variety seems 
 like a waste within such a small game.  

 In addition, Revenant's magic system, which involves combining particular runes in sequence, feels 
 completely unnecessary since you'll find scrolls that tell you exactly what combinations you need. 
 It's a needlessly complicated interpretation of Diablo's point-and-click spellcasting, just as 
 Revenant's interface is a convoluted nuisance hanging over what should have been a clean and intuitive 
 game. You'd expect to be able to easily navigate inventory and statistics screens, but you'll be 
 fumbling with Revenant's overlapping, unlabeled menus throughout the game. Revenant also includes 
 a complicated map editor and a multiplayer deathmatch mode, both of which probably looked good 
 on paper, but neither of which will help make the game any more enjoyable for the average player. 

 What's unusual is that while all these many problems are both evident and disheartening, they still 
 do not ruin what is essentially an enjoyable and fast-paced action game. Even though you'll get 
 stuck looking for hidden exits to tedious mazes, and even though the game's rare instances of plot 
 development are overwrought, uninteresting, and poorly acted, you'll still want to keep playing. 
 That's because despite all the countless unfinished and unpolished details, the fighting in Revenant 
 remains fun. Control is smooth and responsive, Locke commands a huge variety of great-looking attacks 
 and spells, and his enemies are fast and powerful. It's a shame the rest of Revenant isn't nearly 
 as good, but it's to the game's credit that its core mechanics work so well they overshadow its 
 many problems.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (4 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: malichi156
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 17, 2008 2:40 am PT
Review:  oh man is this game so fun!!!!! the comedy! giving an old lady a heart attack was classic!!
  
  A revenant is a visible ghost or animated corpse that was believed to return from the grave 
 to terrorize the living. [1] The word "revenant" is derived from the Latin and French, revenir, 
 "to return"; in French, "revenant" means "returning". Belief in revenants emerged in Western Europe 
 (especially Great Britain, and later carried by Anglo-Norman invaders to Ireland) during the High 
 Middle Ages. Though later legend and folklore depicts revenants as returning for a specific purpose 
 (e. g., revenge against the deceased's killer) , in most Medieval depictions they simply return to 
 harass their surviving families and neighbours. Revenants share a number of characteristics with 
 folkloric vampires.
  
  And that what Locke the main is :)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: L0n3W01F
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 26, 2007 3:51 am PT
Review:  Revenant is an amazing game period. Although critics have madly bashed this one and it did not 
 survived but still there are a few people out there who respect this title. The story is quite 
 a classic, you are brought back to dead to save the town and island from a crazy cult. Which is 
 quite fun so to speak. The game play is a classic. The controls are simple and quite easy to handle. 
 Although there might not be much variety and depth to the combat system but still it still is quite 
 good. The graphics are not top notch but they were pretty awesome and one of its kind when it was 
 released. The voice acting is awesome and the voice of Locke is very great.
  
  Though not the best RPG titles out there, ill agree on that but still it has its own feel and atmosphere 
 which i think is worth experiencing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingLim
Rating: 6.9
Date: Jun 28, 2007 3:15 am PT
Review:  I came upon Revenant when my friend abandoned it and tossed it to me. It started quite promising 
 as he sort of resembled the warrior from the first Diablo complete with the game interface and 
 look. So wow, am I ready for another exciting RPG adventure? Well not exactly, since this game 
 is seriously under-hyped, and I can see the reason why.
  
  The combat system resembled the old-school arcade style Golden Axe with its encounters and fighting 
 techniques. You basically stumble upon the enemies in the open map and start to fight instantly 
 with normal attacks and special moves as you level up.
  
  Overall the gameplay is quite hard since it's not easy to execute the moves at the right time, 
 but anyway it's still fun yet a forgettable experience as well. Now there are too many better RPGs 
 out there for you to care about this one, if it's still on the shelf.
  
  KingLim 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yadish
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 4, 2005 11:35 am PT
Review:  This game is an awsome game with a wide varity of armor and swords all types of spells and monsters. 
 The graphics are alright they could be better but over all they are alright. the sounds are great 
 the people talking the swords and armor clashing they are great they are all like... Awww! Boom! 
 Clang! Whoosh! Ting! this game is worth the money with hours of gameplay and tons of places to 
 look for items or explore for new weapons.
  I would recomend this game to any one who likes beating the snot or getting the snot kicked outta 
 you. I liked this game and i still play it any time! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
